https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/249186.The_New_Lifetime_Reading_Plan
I have a "reading challenge" I've been working on for 22 years or so.
It's the "Lifetime Reading Plan" compiled by scholar and author Clifton Fadiman.
He wrote a book of that title around thirty years ago that's been revised a couple of times.
It's kind of the original "Beowulf on the Beach", in that it takes over 100 authors who have contributed great writings over the past 3000 years or so, gives a profile, defines the flavor, and gives a rationale is to why it would behoove you to read it.
It's true that Fadiman and Major concentrate on more accessible classics, and so omit major authors like Immanuel Kant, Adam Smith, Edward Gibbon, and so on; but the point of this book is to provide advice, not to scholars and autodidacts, but to casual readers; so the omissions were, I think, justified.The biggest practical benefit for me, however, were the recommendations of particular editions and translations, particularly of the books by Asian authors.
Also helpful were Major’s recommendations of classics from China, India, and Japan; and although a tad dry, Major's essays did effectively contextualize these books for an ignorant American reader like myself.
Amazon should ship this book free to new customers because it's practically impossible to read without buying some of the books Fadiman and Major recommend.
Think of all those terrible 101 books you have to read in your life that you've seen.
But now take it to the next level with two intellectuals whose writing is just plain captivating to give not only a synopsis of specific author's literature but recommendations of how to read them, think about them, ingest them, or even view them.
Each little section talks about an authors life, a little about the era and about which books not to read or are must reads.
I love both Clifton Fadiman's writings as well as his daughters Anne Fadiman and would recommend any of their books too - book on book enthusiasts or just plain book enthusiasts.
I thought, many of us are at a loss for reading because we don't know what to read.
Oftentimes we mistaken this with the dislike for reading.
But if only we knew what to read, we would run out of time to read it all.This book solves a great deal of that problem.
It gives tens of summaries and reviews of books, commenting on what to skip, what to focus on, and what books are essential in your lifetime reading plan.
Also, the variety of selections is excellent: everything from literature to history, politics to poetry, and all subjects in between.This book was an invaluable guide for me and I absolutely recommend it.
The decor is a bit dated, but the rolling library ladder is still charming -- and you can tell he genuinely loves this place.When he died in 1997 at the age of 95, The New York Times called Fadiman "a bookworm's bookworm." In addition to being a "witty intellectual" guest/host on various mid-century radio and television shows, Fadiman was a member of the editorial boards for Encyclopedia Britannica and the Book-of-the-Month Club (for 50+ years), head of The New Yorker's book review section, and a top editor at Simon & Schuster.
This book contains chronological summaries of the classic writers from Homer to Chinua Achebe, touching on their lives and some of their works.
I bought this book hoping that would act as a guide on my journey reading the classics.
What a mistake!The authors' flip style, their liberal use of ad hominem and their complete lack of effort to understand the works they were reviewing in their context, left me frustrated and angry.
Their judgemental assessment of the author's life and works reveal minds cemented in their own century and a lack of understanding of any other time in history.What a complete waste of money.
Contains decent essays about the basic works of the canon, along with capsule essays on many more. Old-fashioned and Bloomian, though: "Though Proust loved women as well as men," says Fadiman, "there is little doubt that his later homosexuality was caused partly by his relationship to his mother."
Lo interesante es que tiene una larga lista de autores (en orden cronológico) con sus obras más relevantes y una pequeña biografía; así mismo la lista incluye temáticas desde literatura teatro, ensayo, poesía, política, entre otros.Es útil para todo aquel que quiera acercarse a obras de renombre y explorar un poco su contenido.
Al abarcar tantas tipos de escritos, no se limita sólo a la literatura (que por cierto, es poca, o equivale al 50% de la obra).Lo que destaco como negativo es que no incluye a autores latinoamericanos (sólo a Borges, Sábato y a García Márquez).
Years ago I read the 3rd edition of this book.
I think he has a good pedigree for writing a book like this, a lifetime reading plan.I read every single novel mentioned in his third edition and I liked most of them.
The only novels I remember not enjoying are some of Nathaniel Hawthorne's stories and the ever popular Mark Twain.
I actually died laughing, and I'm now reincarnated as myself.The 3rd edition also lists a lot of philosophy and poetry books.
I think the major poets listed in the book should be punished for putting us through the agony of trying to figure out what the hell they were talking about.
One of my absolute favorite books...A reading list for life.
Tsundoku is a Japanese word for buying books you don't read.
I thought the book was probably full of dry and painful classics like the great books curriculum at St. John's College.
The books are great, but only a few are by Greek philosophers.Clifton Fadiman was astonishingly learned, yet warm, honest, and funny.
Skip all the interpolated pastoral yarns that pleased Cervantes's audience but bore us stiff.
Skip every bit of verse you meet: Cervantes is one of the world's worst poets.Of course, he lists several good reasons to read the book nonetheless.
OK book overall.
the author talks about his favorite 100 books.
its a small book and the descriptions he gives of each book are short and easy to read.
he gives his take on what the book was about and why you should read it.
id read about 25 of them on there and had heard of most of the books he mentions if not all.
worth a quick read and interesting to read someone else's take on a book you may have read yourself and claim to know well yourself.
One of my goodread friends Michael turned me on to this book about 5 years ago and it is excellent.
For a bibliophile it will have you licking your lips because many of these books are at the library or free on line so for little monetary outlay you can read for a lifetime.
It would take a lifetime to finish all the works listed but you'd have an astounding grasp of literature upon finishing.
Worst case you don't read the books but can answer some questions in trivial pursuit.
An interesting book about books. 100 recommendations of books written before 1959 that one should read in their lifetime. The list would be very different if this book was written today, of course, but the list is made of the old Greek classics on up. to different subjects: poetry, philosophy, novels, bio and history.
companionable, sometimes quirky reading, and much more interesting than you'd think.
I liked this book because it included literature from Japan, China, India, and the Middle East. Sometimes, we (Americans) need to be exposed to worlds, other than our own.
This is not the easiest book to read because it is all essays about writers and their works.
I am one of those who have so many books and, at 52, so little time to get them all read.
After reading his essay on a few books I am thankful that he saved me the time.
Nor any readings of books in general as the ACE program gave you only little snippets to learn on any given subject.
I have another book on college reading lists and I have been working my way through it for some time now.
Fadiman's book came to me as a recommended list from Washington Univ.
The 1999 edition, titled the New Lifetime Reading Plan, expands the original 100 titles listed to 133.
Fadiman died in 1999, but I am led to believe he had some input into the new list.
Still, I have not read nearly enough to say my lifetime reading plan has been successful, and I've read enough of the books on the list that they number too many to count.
My lifetime grows shorter more quickly than I shorten the number of titles I have read.
This book provides a great overview of the classic books in our history.
Importantly, the books are listed chronologically, and cross-reference each-other, so it provides sort of a history of the great books of civilization (of course, I am not an expert enough to quibble with the choices).
When reading, I certainly marked down books I want to buy, and it also validated some of the books I have bought previously and not read.
Works that give a broad overview of certain given field are very valuable for the average person.
After reading, I feel like I understand more the story of the greatest works of literature ever written.
Best book of this kind that I know of. Am using it to guide my own reading. They have the problem that the American state papers- the Articles of Confederacy, the Declaration of Independence and the U.S. Constitution aren't books and don't make up a book. The Structure of Scientific Revolution is an odd choice, too. Nobody could make a list like this perfect, and it would be unreasonable to expect that.Have read over and through it many, many times. Can often help with choosing an edition.
Fascinating book on reading and lists of great books to read.
Guide to choosing which classic books to read throughout your lifetime. Probably a good list, but it didn't inspire me to choose a book to read from the list.
Move me in heart—it fuels my passion for literature; move me in mind—it greases my mental cogs; and move me in body—it gets me to pick up a book and actually fucking read.I spent a good few years of my latter teens researching “Great Book” lists.
Sure most included great masterpieces, and sure I hadn’t read a single book on any list.
I also recommend picking up the 3rd edition for this superior introduction and appendix.Structured chronologically, Fadiman and Mayer go through history and present their suggestions for which books to read.
Man, if you want to get a good look into the rich, complex and disturbing lives of the authors of 'great books', this is an engaging, whistle-stop tour.
There is an honest monologue by authors about what you can expect to get out of reading these great books.
Although divided into bite-sized chunks by different authors you ought to try, it is hard to put this book down.
Reading the book, you will be amazed at the diversity of authors from different countries and epochs making remarkable contributions to understanding 'the human condition'.
I will not say "best" because, as Fadiman mentions in his Preliminary Talk with the Reader, "There are no best books." The guide here mentions authors of repute, mostly of Western origins.
The main idea for this book is to be a guide to readers for what they may possibly occupy themselves with (in terms of reading materials) for their lifetime, although Fadiman points out that it's possible that it need not take that long.It is divided into sections ("The Beginning", "The Middle Ages", "Plays", etc.), and in each section, there are names of those with great repute.
This is the second book of his as a literary critic (and not just an editor of an anthology) that I've read.
Fadiman has this very confident way of asserting that you SHOULD be reading the classics and the works of higher literature he's writing about in such a way that makes you feel responsible to go out and do it.
He had had a lifetime of higher reading and criticism behind him.
In fact, I'm reading Dickens's Christmas Books right now, and just because of Fadiman's writing on Dickens, his prose is more affecting to me than it has been before (and I've previously enjoyed Dickens just fine).
Dad once read a statement by Winston Churchill, saying something like "Quote books are good for people who don't read." I kept thinking about that as I read this book--it's a great book for those who are not (and may not be planning to be) well-read.
It did spark my interest in reading some of the great works.
I'd like to finally read Thoreau's WALDEN, and some writings by William James and Henry James, as well as some of the great English poets (and a few Americans).
In his introduction, Fadiman makes clear he doesn't want readers to feel the LTRP is "required" reading that must be gone through in order.
In fact, he encourages skipping around to find something that might be engaging.
Yes, it's made up of books that comprise much of the dreaded (in some quarters) Western Canon, but at no point does Fadiman talk down: these are books that he feels (and I agree) form the literary backdrop of western society, and provide a basis for a shared cultural experience.

