https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/220473.Between_Meals
I read this in Paris. Often in a bathtub. Yes, I know I am a lucky woman.
"Lamb larded with anchovies, artichokes on a pedestal of foie gras..." Take a bite of book.(A)bbott (J)oseph Liebling (1904-1963), we learn, easily knocked back hot sausage, wild boar, lobster and various cheeses w wines and champagne at a meal.
This, his last book, is a fuzzy-muzzy compiled of 3 or 4 articles, hence its gooey sense of dislocation.Decades before the exclamation ejaculations of Tom Wolfe and the tiresome phrase "New Journalism," there was the chewy AJ.
Food, wine, sex.
Hide!" hit plays reflect the chaos of Mirande's randy sex life.AJ's memoir gets a fine intro by James Salter who neglects to mention he was a New Yorker writer who often added fiction to his journalism.
Many of them are orgies of consumption: Liebling’s friend the theater producer and playboy Yves Mirande dispatches “a lunch of raw Bayonne ham and fresh figs, a hot sausage in crust, spindles of filleted pike in a rich rose sauce Nantua, a leg of lamb larded with anchovies, artichokes on a pedestal of foie gras, and four or five kinds of cheese, with a good bottle of Bordeaux and one of champagne, after which he would call for the Armagnac and remind Madame to have ready for dinner the larks and ortolans she had promised him, with a few langoustes and a turbot – and, of course, a fine civet made from the marcassin, or young wild boar….” followed by woodcock and truffles baked in ashes.
If you can read Liebling's Between Meals: An Appetite for Paris without your mouth watering for cassoulet, pot-au-feu or escargots en pots de chambre with a bottle of Côte Rôtie, you're made of stouter stuff than I.
Liebling is mad. May all the world be as mad as he. A personal account of how he cultivated his passions for food–and love, and consequently, life–while in Paris as a young man, accompanied by his observations on Paris as an older man. Liebling at his most charmingly fecund.
There is a great introduction to the book by James Salter, the famous and very good writer who overlapped slightly with Liebling at The New Yorker.
One thing Liebling said early on that I liked is that to be a gourmet, a knowledgeable authority on food, you need to have not quite enough money.
The owner insisted that his parents, who I think had not been to France before, start with the most humble meal possible, as a way to get to know French food from the bottom up, so to speak.
How great would it be if I could eat my way around France and never think of my liver or my figure?
And then of course come back to the states and have my liver and figure totally fine...It was such a wonderful, delicious read.
Liebling was a student in Paris in 1926-27 and what he thought was the Golden Age was really the Late Silver (paraphrasing.) That just killed me.
How can the meals he described be the "Late Silver Age??" And then just think about what that means for today's food!
Regardless, Liebling's Paris recalls a time when people savored their food and drink.
(Then again, this was also when our traditional notions of men and women dominated and civil rights in America were not at a high point.)However, as the title implies, the meals were secondary to the people who toiled to create them and the company they provided to those who appreciated good food.
The meals, which are sumptuously described, are nothing more than catalysts for Liebling to recall his Paris and its inhabitants.Liebling's writing exemplifies the New Yorker magazine's style: literary in tone, knowledgeable without sounding too snobbish, rich with the right details, humorous and opinionated without being unseemly.
If this book doesn't make you want to get on a plane immediately to eat your way around Paris, nothing will. I love Liebling's writing--funny, touching, and erudite all at once, which is not an easy note to hit. Recommended for Francophiles, gourmands, and lovers of great writing. (He also has a collection of World War II writing that is excellent.)
I found this on a list of books read in 1991, but I only remember one line from it, about eating a couple dozen oysters before a meal of cassoulet but not worrying about the volume of food "because oysters have no bulk." :)
I will no longer consider myself pretentious about food....or anything, really. It's wonderful how even frequenting prostitutes is written about with great pretension..
I had some great meals in Paris recently so this title caught my eye! And now I'm hungry..:)
Great writing about great food and a vanished time.
My introduction was a bit overwhelming but I had had a stout preparation for it during the Academic Year at the sorbonne he goes on to compare the quality of wine to the quality of literary works here's another passage Shakespeare and Tolstoy because more accessible are not necessarily inferior to say Dawn and dust I have ski.
I'll have to look up the book that he wrote sounds kind of interesting to understand the different regions and how the flavors are influenced by the fats that are used in cooking
Rather than a book solely about French cuisine and old restaurants in Paris, Between Meals is actually a memoir of A.J. Liebling’s student days in Paris during the academic year of 1926-27.
This is a lovely slice of 1920s Jazz Age Paris, and some of the restaurants he mentions, such as Laperouse and Drouant, still exist.
He has an interesting theory about why French cuisine declined after the wars: doctors started telling people to drink less alcohol and eat less fat; young children had obligatory education and could no longer apprentice as cooks and sous chefs at the age of 8 or 10; and busy people no longer could appreciate the 4 hour, eleven course meal.
Liebling is always the most entertaining and observant of essayists.
This memoir about living and eating/drinking in Paris is a tribute to over indulgence a vice that Liebling heartily endorses.
These very indulgences probably sent him to his early grave but I expect that he would define the bargain as one well worth it.
While you are there for the descriptions of incomprehensibly enormous meals you can linger over observations about the sporting life in France and the relationships between working class courtesans and their admirers.
Liebling on any subject is worth reading
I went into reading this expecting an expert telling of pre-war Paris from the eyes of one of the greatest eaters to ever live. And that is what was delivered; however, it just didn't seem to "click" with me. I have read many 1920's era food writers pieces and this was the first one to disappoint me. I am glad i purchesed an electronic copy and not the physical that would take up room on my shelf. Maybe I will try reading this again in a few years and see if my thoughts change.
An American gourmand man about Paris from 1920 to the 50s. Liebling explored and speared the food scene with gusto and panache. An interesting piece of information: THE WAVERLY ROOT CLASSIFICATIONS:Northern France - Butter Lorraine Alsace - Fat Nice/Provence - Olive Oil
Liebling could care less about offending you and your sensibilities. He writes well and paints an enchanting picture. He lived a dissolute life that ended early -- which saddened me as I read along thinking oh dear if you would just exercise a little, or measure your alcohol by glasses not bottles -- but he wrote beautifully.
This book contains a collection of Liebling's essays, mostly about his experience trying French cuisine. I thought it was amusing and insightful. That said, Liebling's attitude about food is not to worry about its health consequences, and I do not really agree with that.
Brilliant writing. A gustatory memoir to Paris of the mid-1920's. A.J.Liebling wrote for The New Yorker and this book, which is more like a series of long essays, embodies some of that trademark wit and air of a bon vivant. Hedonistic and entirely endearing.
I enjoyed this book very much. It was a memoir of his youth during his times in Paris. My favorite quote was when he likened his time in Paris to the scrumptious icing, whereas his non-Paris time was merely boring sponge cake (my paraphrase).
great book, witty, funny, interesting. i admit there were parts i just didn't understand, references i didn't get, but i thoroughly enjoyed the whole thing. it was like a meal itself, and i feel quite happy and satisfied.
Pleasant to read, but not really memorable.
I enjoyed this a lot, but it is very often retrograde and nostalgic, and at all times sexist. So recommended with some large caveats.
It reads like a rich kid’s blog about studying abroad
“What I had taken for a Golden Age was in fact Late Silver,” he says, looking back to the era before the First World War, when the courtesans were zaftig, the successful Frenchman was fat, and, as Mirande says, “feasts followed upon feasts.”James Salter was an appropriate choice to write the introduction to these engaging, precisely written essays: he loved Paris, wrote about travel and food, admired Liebling, and shared his masculine perspective.
AJ Liebling writes about food and eating and dieting and exercise like a crank, which is his job, and that's chill.
like this:In 1927, when I was on the Left Bank of the Seine learning to eat, Root, whom I did not then know, was champing his way through his own delightful and necessary apprenticeship on the opposite side of the river.
Like this, on why choosing women was harder than choosing menu items:It was trickier than that because a woman, unlike a navarin de mouton, has a mind.
Give the witty woman a bad temper and the dull one constant good humor and you add to the difficulty of choice.
They had been cut from a tired Alpine billy goat and seared in machine oil, and haricots verts with which they were served resembled decomposed whiskers from a theatrical-costume beard....Calvados, which, to my taste, is the best alcohol in the world....the veritable elixir of Eden.
(Every Norman knows that the apple of the Bible is symbolic; it stands for the distilled cider that will turn the head of any woman.) Good Calvados is never sold legally.
The tax leaves a taste that the Norman finds intolerable, like the stuff that wives put in whiskey to cure alcoholics.
I am not one of those people who loves Paris.
However, I do love food.
Liebling's memoir of eating and drinking across Paris over the course of a few decades is one of the most joyous books I've ever read.
Essentially a series of NEW YORKER articles strung together, Liebling's book about France is more or less an appreciation of pot-au-feu and Burgundy wines.
This is not so much a food book as it is a blueprint for life.
Wine drinkers, you will go hunting for Burgundies and Rhone after reading it.
