https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13415529-the-auschwitz-volunteer
Polish army officer Witold Pilecki went 'undercover' into Auschwitz. His account of what happened inside this most infamous of death camps will haunt you for the rest of your life.
It is also one of the hardest books too read that I have ever picked up because he was writing so clearly about the day to day realities of Auschwitz, a place run by subhuman monsters with no code of ethics and no respect for other people.
Witold Pilecki was a decent, honorable man in the Polish military who literally walked into a Nazi roundup in Warsaw, Poland deliberately as part of the underground mission to smuggle out intelligence about this new and horrible concentration camp and to build a resistance movement and organization among the prisoners.
I had never heard of Witold Pilecki, it's not something I was taught about at school.
I find that quite shocking, one of the biggest heroes from WW2 and he is unknown by many.Pilecki volunteered to get arrested and sent to Auschwitz and report back the goings on in there.
They managed to create a radio and they also sent many reports to Warsaw describing what was happening and how many people were murdered.
Eventually things became too hot for Pilecki and after 2 1/2 years in Auschwitz he decided it was time to escape.
"When God created the human being, God had in mind that we all should be like Captain Witold Pilecki."The Auschwitz Volunteer" is the single most extraordinary tale of heroism you will ever read.
I want to assure readers that, the entire time you are reading, you know you are in the hands of a heroically good man who endured everything he endured because he was committed to a higher cause: serving humanity, his country, and his God. Indeed, in describing events in 1943, when he had been in Auschwitz since 1940, Pilecki wrote, "Above all, I was a believer." Pilecki described how his belief in God, and his commitment to service to Poland, got him through.
His mission was to get inside using fake documents (I believe he was actually a Catholic), gather evidence of what was going on, organise a resistance, and then escape.
This is when nobody was aware of what exactly was going on inside Auschwitz and people thought it to be a standard prison camp.
He came close to dying numerous times.While inside Pilecki was key to organising a resistance movement and even managed to report to the Polish Government which was in exile in Britain.
He wrote this very report which documents the day to day struggles inside Auschwitz.
Witold Pilecki, married middle age father, volunteers to get himself arrested and sent to Auschwitz (September 1940) to be able to gather information for the Polish Underground & help organize the resistance within the camp. This book is the English translation of his 1945 written report to the Polish High Command. Murdered by Russian Communists in 1948 his name was effectively purged from Polish history until after the fall of the Soviet Union. This relatively unknown (in English at least) first hand report of Auschwitz deserves to be as famous as the works of Anne Frank, Primo Levi, etc.
Appendix 1 is a glossary of terms, 2 is a list of positions and ranks, 3 is the people and places Pilecki mentions throughout the book, and so on.
Appendix 4 is an approximate timeline of Pilecki's movements and actions as told in his report.
There are even 21 discussion questions in the back of the book.The translator's introductory note and the publisher's note tell about the way Pilecki's report was turned into the book and it's worth reading.
There is also a list of selected highlights from Pilecki's report included in the beginning of the book.It's most definitely worth reading in my opinion.
The Auschwitz Volunteer is a newly available English translation of a report written by Witold Pilecki, a Polish military officer, in the late summer of 1945 about the 3 years he spent inside the Auschwitz concentration camp from 1940-1943.
Auschwitz was young then: Pilecki was on the second transport of prisoners to what had been a Polish cavalry base converted by the Germans into a camp for Polish prisoners.
When the first transport was sent, Pilecki volunteered to infiltrate the prison, organize resistance, and send out reports.
His was the second group of prisoners to arrive.As a military report this work is extremely well written.
This should be required reading in every history class. Detailed, thorough, and absolutely amazing.
https://pilecki.ipn.gov.pl/rpe
This is perhaps, the most amazing book I have read on the Holocaust. Captain Witold Pilecki VOLUNTEERED to go to Auschwitz to organize rebellion and to ensure the world knew what atrocities were being perpetrated. Captain Pilecki is the definition of a hero.A must read!
"Cosa può dire oggi l'umanità, quella stessa umanità che vuole mostrare un progresso culturale e personale e collocare il XX secolo molto più in alto dei secoli passati?
Ai giorni nostri un gruppo armato, rinunciando al 'velo' del passato, distrugge non solo un esercito nemico, ma intere nazioni e società inermi, usando i più recenti ritrovati della tecnica.
Purtroppo la storia ci ha già insegnato che quell'ordine non sarebbe mai arrivato!Come ho detto prima, questo libro non è un romanzo ma è il rapporto, scritto in prima persona (una volta evaso e tornato libero) da Witold Pilecki, di tutto ciò che lui stesso ha visto, fatto e subito durante la sua prigionia ad Auschwitz.
Did anybody know? Did anybody try to tell the world? Yes. The answer is "yes." Based upon reports Pilecki wrote, this work takes you inside the death camp and details the inner workings of the Nazi atrocities and how some were able to survive the brutality and horror, creating a network of resistance and support. Pilecki details both the depravity and the selflessness that can be contained within human beings. Not a book for the younger reader, but one that could supplement a study of World War II or European history for the high school or college student.
This book stands alone among the many accounts I've read of life and death in Auschwitz.
Captain Pilecki did not intend it as a book, but as a military, intelligence report to the Polish Underground.
It is a factual recounting of his life, observations, and work in Auschwitz in its earlier years.
Captain Pilecki volunteered by assuming another's name and getting picked up in a sweep.
With brutality and death all around him, he managed to maintain enough strength and perspective to increase the chances for prisoners' survival in the present and to continually prepare for the liberation he hoped would come from his fellow Poles.
All the movies I've seen about the horrors of the German concentration camps did not prepare me for Pilecki's accounts of the brutality that occurred.
One example: burying inmates headfirst in gravel pits and placing bets on how long their legs would continue waving in the air.
And that brings me to one of Pilecki's major observations about survival.
"The bitter truth," he writes, is that intellectuals have few survival skills.
Many lacked the willpower to eat the food in the camps.
. ." Snobs, who could not form friendships with men who possessed practical skills, "had to die." .I'm stopping on page 208.
Witold Pilecki .
The text provides a view of Auschwitz that is rarely seen. Mr. Pilecki was in the camp early in its inception and he was there as a Pole and Catholic. As a member of the Polish army (and subsequent underground), he allowed himself to be arrested in order to build cells in the camp. This book is the third report her wrote detailing his experiences, and he was executed by Soviets before he had a chance to revise it in anyway. The style is raw and in diary form. Great supplemental material in intro and conclusion and end matter.
One of the proud republic of Poland's incredible heroes in a long history of resistance to domination by powerful neighbors. All of the handful of documented escapes from Auschwitz are amazing, but this one starts with the perhaps unique circumstance of the author's voluntary entry to the concentration camp with the aim of starting and building a resistance organization.A vivid if somewhat breathless narrative accompanies by a large number of photographs and side narrative by the publishers and editors.

Amazing and true story of the Polish hero who snuck into Auschwitz to prepare for the eventual uprising against the Nazis. He stayed in the camp for years, organizing a resistance. He eventually escaped to fight in the Warsaw Rising of 1944, survived the war and then came back to fight the communists, eventually losing his life to the Russians in 1949. An amazing and true story largely in his own words showing what it was really like.
I have not read many stories on the Holocaust but I think this is one of the best ones. I chose this one because the thought of somebody volunteering to go to Auschwitz was mind-boggling. The author made the content very easy to read and so I found that I was able to finish this book very quickly. I will admit there were some parts where I had to take a little break due to the content. If you get stuck hug a puppy it'll make you feel better. :-)
I'm conflicted about this book. If it is all true it is an amazing story, but I failed to understand the purpose of infiltrating Auschwitz and staying there for three years. I'm not sure what it achieved in the end.
He built up a secret army in Auschwitz ready to take over the camp at a moment’s notice, but got frustrated that no forces outside would give the signal or air support.He was there at the Warsaw Uprising and later, when he could have kept out of trouble in London like the Polish government-in-exile, he went back to Poland to try and undermine the Russians again.
It tells the story of his voluntary admission into Auschwitz during a Warsaw street round up in 1940 to his escape in 1943.
It's undoubtedly a great story that more people should be aware of.
For the following reasons, I wouldn't agree with some of the reviews saying it's an easy read.
The story largely follows a chronological order although it does go off to talk about more specific topics (e.g.
'levels of punishments in Auschwitz') for quite large amounts of time before resuming the timeline.
Additionally, there's a huge amount of names mentioned that come and go (for obvious reasons), making the story hard to follow at times.
This was a book that was recommended by one of the book blogs I follow.
It was interesting to see how Auschwitz was started and how it transformed over about three years.
It was heartbreaking to realize all that was happening in that camp and the cruelty of others.
It makes me want to learn more about the Polish resistance during the war, so maybe that's where I'll go next.
The writing, although written some time after escaping the camp, tells the story well.
There isn't a lot of flowery writing, and sometimes the author only slightly covers something before moving on to something else.
Excellent book. This is actually a report that Pilecki sent to his superiors after he had been in Auschwitz - having managed to get himself arrested and taken there voluntarily to report on the conditions. He was one of the early inmates. This is written in a matter-of-fact style which makes it even more heartrending. I can't understand how people can be so evil...It was impossible to put this book down once I had started it. It shows the horror of Auschwitz from the very beginning. I can't understand how people can be so evil...
My son and I visited the Holocaust Museum in DC last summer, and I wanted to do some more reading about it. I found this one just looking through the shelves in our public library, and glad that I did. Without mentioning any spoilers, it’s a survivor’s story of 32-months in Auschwitz from 1940 to 1943 and how he was able to survive. Keep in mind that the conditions there were very difficult and it contains very graphic accounts of cruel torture and killing. It is quite a read and will leave you with lots to think about.
O livro "O Voluntário de Auschwitz" é um livro cru. Que mostra do que a raça humana é capaz quando se une para mal, mas que também mostra do que é capaz quando se une para o bem.Witold Pilecki deve ser homenageado pela força e coragem que teve para se entregar aos alemães e para ter ido para o campo de concentração de forma voluntária. Passou lá vários anos que se tornaram cada vez piores e fugiu na altura certa. Um homem de coragem que não merecia morrer da forma que morreu.
It's hard to believe that a first-person account of Auschwitz can be so recently discovered/published. It's even harder to read this knowing the ultimate fate of the author, who escaped Auschwitz only to be executed as a traitor. Still, a very compelling account.
A coragem de um Homem que foi para Auschwitz e presenciou o horror de milhares de Judeus...Testemunho extraordinário
Imteresting story about Witold Pilecki who infiltrated Auschwitz so he could write a report about what was going on inside the Concentration Camp.
