https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/138685.Dissolution
To prove his loyalty to Henry the 8th Cromwell is fervently enforcing the recent First Act of Succession (1536) dissolving as many monasteries as possible, within the confines of the new law.
To make things even more irritating for him he finds himself competing with his young assistant for the affections of a young lass who works in the infirmary of the monastery.Shardlake is very dismissive of Catholicism, a true believer in the Reformation, but at the same time he is sickened by the lives that are being ruined needlessly.
I did a two year course in forensic science, and it never ceases to amaze me how the writers of these television shows think that wearing gloves will therefore mean that the crime scene is not contaminated by the otherwise exposed investigators.
So, regardless of how this is handled in modern crime books, I always avoid them to avoid similar annoyance.
I mean, at last, a crime book that I want to read.
The Dissolution with the Catholic Church changed the face of England forever along with its sequential history.
Shardlake is a commissioner sent, by Thomas Cromwell, to investigate his predecessor’s murder at a monastery.
The action is set in the time of (in)famous king Henry VIII and it has as main character a hunchback lawyer under the service of the equally famous and controversial figure, Thomas Cromwell.
I knew vaguely of the Catholic Church Dissolution and reading this has been a perfect opportunity to improve my knowledge.
Under overwhelming time and secrecy pressure imposed by Cromwell, Shardlake begins a long set of interviews and immerses himself in the life of the monastery.
I felt that the portrayal of the Catholic Church and of the reformist was balanced and that the conclusion rings true event Todays: Whenever people with power fight the only true losers are the common people.
This is a reread for me, the first in this historical series set in Tudor England that introduces and establishes the lawyer, Matthew Shardlake, afflicted by a deformity he was born with, leaving him in constant pain.
It is 1537, a tired and unhappy Shardlake has been summoned by the much feared Lord Thomas Cromwell, a man who had ill advisedly allied himself with the now beheaded Anne Boleyn, leaving him with much to prove.
The beheading is sending a personal message to Cromwell as he insists that Shardlake goes there and find out what is going on.
I enjoyed reading this historical fiction book, recommended by GR friend Ingrid.
The book is set in 1537 England.
A royal commissioner is murdered in the monastery of Scarnsea on the southeast coast of England.
Thomas Cromwell, Henry's vicar general, calls a lawyer, Matthew Shardlake, to his office and tells him to go to the monastery, find the murderer and persuade the monastery to surrender its property to the king.
Shardlake and his assistant Mark Poer go the monastery and investigate.
More murders happen and the ending was a surprise to me.
I recommend it to historical fiction fans.
DissolutionDissolution is the first book from CJ Sansom in the Matthew Shardlake series, set during the reign of King Henry VIII and his Chief Minister, Thomas Cromwell.
The tensions in the country are high between those loyal to King Henry and those to the Catholic Church.
Shardlake is summoned to Thomas Cromwell’s office and assigned to investigate the death of one of Cromwell’s agents in St Donatus monastery at Scarnsea.
Shardlake is a brilliant central character providing that astonishing logic that makes this novel intriguing and captivating as he delicately investigates the murder at the monastery.
His principal ally in this effort was his vicar general, Thomas Cromwell, who was much feared by Henry's opponents.Cromwell sends a commissioner to begin the process of dissolving the monastery of Scarnsea on the southern coast of England, but shortly after arriving at Scarnsea the commissioner is murdered.
More murders will follow their arrival and it's clear that Shardlake and his young assistant are also in grave danger every moment that they remain in the monastery.
Shardlake spends an awful lot of time wandering through the snow from one part of the monastery to another in order to interview people and it starts to get a bit repetitious.
His jaw held thus made me think of a great trap that at any moment might open and swallow one whole with a casual gulp.”And with a brutal gulp, Cromwell dissolved and swallowed the monasteries across England, beginning with smaller ones in 1536 and completing the dissolution of even the largest old ones by 1540, pensioning off a few monks but turning everyone else loose into the poor neighbouring townships.
Please send help my lord and tell me what I should do.”So Shardlake and his talented, loyal off-sider Mark, a handsome young ladies’ man, set off in the wet, blustery cold of an English winter to replace the murdered commissioner.
Currently in favour with Thomas Cromwell, Chief Minister to King Henry VIII and a vehement Reformer, Shardlake receives a commission to investigate a death in the monastery of Scarnsea.
In 1534, Cromwell began investigating the monasteries and now in 1537, the larger ones face the threat of dissolution, being potentially rich sources of revenue for the Crown.
The murder draws Shardlake into the depths of contemporary religious and political scheming, opening his eyes to its deadly consequences.Set mainly within the walls of Scarnsea, but with some memorable scenes in London, the book seethes with sinners.
I am a bit if a history buff and I was drawn to this story because it is set during the English Reformation, a period I was interested to learn more about.
The main character, Matthew Shardlake, is a hunchback, English lawyer working for Thomas Cromwell (the architect of the English Reformation).
Shardlake is sent to a Benedictine monastery to investigate the brutal murder of one of Cromwell's men.
However, Shardlake's true mission is to arrange for the voluntary surrender of the monastery to the English crown.The book was very well written, with a complex, well structured plot and very memorable characters.

What is a good and reasonable Reformer to do amongst a bunch of deluded crazy Papist monks?
With the fate of the Monastery at risk, everyone has something to cover up and nobody is to be believed!The historical background is phenomenal in this book (the author really knows his stuff) and the murder mystery ain’t bad.
The character of Mathew Sharldlake is charming but will probably need to be developed a little more (I assume this will happen in later books?).Altogether recommended for those who like a slightly different murder mystery and for fans of historical fiction set in the Tudor period.
Its the first in a series, in which i shall most definitely be heavily indulging, revolving around a well drawn character called Matthew Shardlake who, when the novel begins, is an ardent if gentle reformer working for Thomas Cromwell just as, with the death of Jane Seymour, Henry VIII is set free to vomit his horrible nastiness over a few more women.Shardlake, a lawyer who struggles with the disadvantage of suffering from a hunchback, is sent to a Monastery on the East Coast at Scarnsea to investigate the brutal murder of one of Cromwell's men who had been sent there so as to speed up the process of dissolution.
This is a good historical mystery, told by a master story teller. It is a tale of greed and revenge in which suspense and red herrings abound. The characterisation is good, the plot is interesting and our hero has to come to terms with some of his own shortcomings. The historical angle is also interesting; I had not previously given the dissolution of the monasteries much thought.
Great book!
'The Bible says God made man in his image but I think we make and remake him, in whatever image happens to suit our shifting needs.'This is a complex time in Tudor history, brilliantly brought to life by CJ Sansom.
As one character says' there is nowhere safe in the world, no thing certain.'Matthew Shardlake , a hunchbacked lawyer from London is charged with the investigation of one of the Kings commissioner's murder while auditing a monastery.
It seems a long time since the last volume by CJ Sansom and I think my urge to re read this came from my longing for a continuation of Matthew Shardlakes adventures.
Now that is how historical fiction should be written, plenty of fact, some great fictional characters and a really good story. The fact that this is also a mystery and a page turner made the deal for me. This was a really good read and I will be seeking out the rest of the series very soon.
I may be mistaken, but I wonder whether the reference to the (fake) lost Comedy of Aristotle in Scarnsea's library was a deliberate echo (or Eco?) of Name of the Rose.Again, however, Dissolution comes off worse in the comparison: it lacks the intensely almost arcanely intellectualism of Eco, who I love hugely; the language comes across as being broadly modern with the occasional nod towards the period whereas Eco's writing has always struck me an amazingly authentic.This said, look at the writers with whom Sansom is being compared: I cannot think of any writer who would come off better in such a contest!
This is the first book* in the excellent Matthew Shardlake series by Sansom, which I am reading slightly out of order, having started with book 2 (which I really enjoyed).
When Cromwell’s commissioner to Scarnsea Robert Singleton is brutally murdered, Shardlake charged with finding the murderer heads there with his assistant Mark Poer, only to find that things are very very murky in the monastery though on the surface, everything seems fine.
This was a well written and very enjoyable entry in the series, though I probably think I would have enjoyed it far more had I read it before the later ones.
Set during the Dissolution of the Monasteries under Henry VIII, this novel brings this episode in history to life through the character Matthew Shardlake.
Passers by only see Shardlake as a cripple, but the reader sees his pride, insecurities, longing for companionship, and devotion to a cause that he believes is sincere.Through the example of the Monastery of St. Donatus at Scarnsea, we are shown first hand what it was like for the monks at this time to be at the mercy of the king.
Putting it on this personal level and seeing what happens to each of the characters Sansom creates, the reader can vividly imagine this period of history.The author's depiction of Tudor times is second to none.
This is a great murder mystery set in the 16th century, during the religious reformation of Thomas Cromwell and Henry VIII.
The setting is a monastery in Scarnsea, and Matthew Shardlake is a hunchbacked lawyer who serves as a commissioner of Cromwell to investigate the murder, and to hasten the dissolving of St. Donatus, as a precedent and warning to other religious orders as to what awaits them.
This book has it all: excellent writing, great plot, flawed, believable characters, and it even throws in discussion of organized religion and who it actually serves, as well.
Highly recommended to any mystery lover.
The main character, Matthew Shardlake alongside with his assistant Mark Poer goes to a monastery at Scarnsea to investigate the murder of a commissioner.
The monastery is a strange place and gives negative and evil vibes and it really makes me feel like that some complex character with complex ideologies might be the culprit behind this.
I expected very much from Mark but it felt like he was just so much naive about so many things.
A casual reader of historical fiction will feel bored by some of the details in this book.
First published in 2003, this is the first novel in the Matthew Shardlake series, and introduces us to our unlikely hero; lovelorn, hunchbacked, a reformist lawyer who begins the book as utterly loyal to Cromwell’s ideals and ends it plagued with doubts about his role and mission.
Shardlake is sent by Cromwell to the Monastery of St Donatus the Ascendant at Scarnsea, Sussex.
Cromwell had sent Commissioner Robin Singleton there with lawyer, Lawrence Goodhaps.
Now Singleton has been found murdered and Shardlake is sent to investigate.
Mark Poer is not the greatest foil to Shardlake, but the novel introduces other characters who appear in later books.
7.0/10In reading this book, I have had a glimpse of eternity.
This is a good candidate for my newly-minted category, Click-Lit ...
📺 Reading more like a script than a novel ...
I don’t foresee wasting any more time with the novels, but look forward to the television series instead.I don’t understand why this didn’t work for me, for it is definitely “my” historical period and Sansom writes well.
The characters bordered on caricatures rather than coming through as convincing historical personages.
A good director will work through that quite nattily.
First published in 2003, this is the first novel in the Matthew Shardlake series, and introduces us to our unlikely hero; lovelorn, hunchbacked, a reformist lawyer who begins the book as utterly loyal to Cromwell’s ideals and ends it plagued with doubts about his role and mission.
Shardlake is sent by Cromwell to the Monastery of St Donatus the Ascendant at Scarnsea, Sussex.
Cromwell had sent Commissioner Robin Singleton there with lawyer, Lawrence Goodhaps.
Now Singleton has been found murdered and Shardlake is sent to investigate.
Mark Poer is not the greatest foil to Shardlake, but the novel introduces other characters who appear in later books.
Thomas Cromwell is pursuing the dissolution of monasteries; Shardlake, a hunchback, is a protestant commissioner sent by Cromwell to St. Donatus monastery at Scarnsea where the murder of his predecessor has taken place.
There are number of monks among the suspects and Shardlake is convinced that the killer is still at the monastery.This book was better that I expected.
St.Donatus monastery at Scarnsea is a fictional place but the book contains some interesting and accurate references to historical events of the period (such as the freezing of the River Thames in 1536 and the demolition of Lewes Priory later in 1537).
Dissolution  is an exciting mystery set in 1537, at the time of the dissolution of monasteries commanded by Henry VIII. The enigma concerning the events at Scarnsea monastery is quite easy to be solved if you literally follow the clues. So better than the mystery I appreciated the staging - evoking a claustrophobic, suffocating atmosphere more typical of a dystopian novel rather than of historical fiction. Also I did like the take on Cromwell's policy and on Ann Boleyn's affair. I will definite
Dissolution
 is an exciting mystery set in 1537, at the time of the dissolution of monasteries commanded by Henry VIII. The enigma concerning the events at Scarnsea monastery is quite easy to be solved if you literally follow the clues. So better than the mystery I appreciated the staging - evoking a claustrophobic, suffocating atmosphere more typical of a dystopian novel rather than of historical fiction. Also I did like the take on Cromwell's policy and on Ann Boleyn's affair. I will definitely read the following books featuring Matthew Shardlake.
Fantastic historical fiction that I adored reading. England in 1537 is certainly a fascinating setting and Matthew Shardlake is a character I highly enjoyed. I will be eagerly continuing with this series.
How men fear the chaos of the world, I thought, and the yawning eternity hereafter.
So we build patterns to explain its terrible mysteries and reassure ourselves we are safe in this world and beyond.There was a germ of something remarkable in this genre novel.
Double cursed with the blights of "historical" and "detective" baggage, Dissolution betrays yet another misfortune as it flies headlong into the pillars of its territory: The Name of the Rose meets Man For All Seasons as remixed by DJ Spooky and Iain Sinclair.
The destruction of the monasteries strikes the modern reader as being eternally cynical but what isn't in the sidelong view of Progress?
Well, perhaps I should say, that I am glad that I have discovered CJ Sansom because he really brought Henry Tudor's England alive for me.
It is that which has made me glad to start reading books of this era.As a crime thriller, this book was a little dull.
It was Sansom's descriptions of England during the Dissolution that held my interest and kept me coming back to this book time and again, eager to absorb it.I had worked out the killer pretty early on and was not disappointed when I found out I was right.
