https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8379374-backstage-pass
That sure did happen – however, there was so much sex even my inner skank blushed.As a whole I enjoyed the book, it was sexy as hell, God damn HOT sex scenes, but just too damn many of them.
There was vaginal, anal, oral, sex with toys, sex with food, sex in public places, sex with people watching, a threesome and much, much, more.I think if you take out all the sex scenes there would probably only be about 50 pages of actual storyline and the storyline in itself was quite predictable.All in all it was a HOT HOT HOT read, Olivia Cunning is one talented sex writer but this book is definitely not for the faint of heart.There is an additional video that I found that goes with this my review.
She invites him to her room mere minutes after he spends a considerable amount of time worshipping the porcelain god in the hotel’s public restrooms.Another major issue was Brian considering Myrna special.
(hide spoiler)] I thought that at last, both Brian and Myrna could overcome their trust issues a little.
(view spoiler)[Plus, the author introduces the possible unrequited love situation between Trey and Brian as well as their sexual experimentations on each other as adolescents, but doesn’t elaborate on it at all.
4.5Backstage Pass is my first read by Olivia Cunning, and I enjoyed it immensely!
I've clearly been missing out over here!
Hooolllyyy shit!!
This book is hot af!!!
I'm serious, guys!
Prudes need to step away from this one!
What did I love most about the book?
What's not to love?
I can't wait to read more about each of them in the coming books!
Do I recommend Backstage Pass?
Don't pick this one up if you want to read a touching love story, but if you're looking for something fun and dirty, one click this one now!!
I was prepared to fall among those readers who do not like this story because I usually do not enjoy reading this type of erotica.
I neither expected nor was prepared for how fascinating, compelling, erotic, and, frankly, disturbing I found Backstage Pass to be.
Although there was too much sex in this book (understatement of the century!) and at times the writing prose felt underdeveloped and stunted, the author did a great job giving the reader fun, endearing, and sexy characters; an intriguing plot; and a fairly realistic look at the lifestyle of a rock band.
Their crass and seedy lifestyle fascinated, unsettled, and many times appalled me.
This book should come with a vibrator attachment. Holy hell. Loved it.
5 stars – Erotic Contemporary RomanceI love all kinds of music, including rock, but I’ve never been much of a concert groupie or band fan girl.
So, I can certainly understand the inclination to obsess over sexy rock star gods like the Sinners.Backstage Pass totally kindled my Kindle and nearly set it on fire...it’s that freakin’ HOT!
It’s definitely a 5+ star read in terms of its explosive hotness, but I didn’t really love the main characters.
I’m sooo looking forward to Trey’s story, Double Time, but it’s the last book in the series and doesn’t come out until Oct’2012...wahhh.
Sometimes, I girl just needs a really hot, sexy, DIRTY read!Know what I mean? And being that this book is written by THE Olivia Cunning…Has five sexy has HELL rockstars who happen to believe in *ahem*… “teamwork”And is very hot, extreeeeemely sexy, and oh so dirty from the get-go… This book was AHHHHHMAZING! But maybe that’s because rockstars are my ultimate weakness. ;)This book might just take the cake on having the fuggin’ hottest, blush-worthy scenes! Sheezus!And just between you and I? If y
Sometimes, I girl just needs a really hot, sexy, DIRTY read!Know what I mean?
And being that this book is written by THE Olivia Cunning…Has five sexy has HELL rockstars who happen to believe in *ahem*… “teamwork”And is very hot, extreeeeemely sexy, and oh so dirty from the get-go…
This book was AHHHHHMAZING!
But maybe that’s because rockstars are my ultimate weakness.
If you read this book in public, and the old guy next to you sees the title of your book, and asks you what it’s about?Don’t tell him it’s a Madonna concert memoir.
A Rock Star + a Professor of Sex = naughty things. I spent most of my time reading this book looking like this:I wanted to look away but I couldn't make myself. Myrna had many lessons in sex ed that I never knew existed. These are things that weren't taught to us in sex ed classes in high school...  The Sinners on Tour Website Book 1 of the Sinners on Tour Series Brian & MyrnaSERIES:     No cliffhangers
OMGsh I laughed so hard I had tears rolling down my cheeks!Another awesome example is that due to the random bathroom guy, they couldn't finish so Myrna gave Brian a hand *wink wink* on the ride back to his tour bus, but used his lucky hat to cover what she was doing.
It's just that it was so far into the book-it was towards end, by that point we know Brian and Myrna are in love and it ruined it for me.
I can't wait for the next book Rock Hard and I can't wait to see what happens now that Myrna knows (view spoiler)[Trey is in love with Brian (hide spoiler)].
While I was reading away in this book and falling for Brian, Sed, Trey, Jace and Eric I looked up some other reviews to see if anyone had any photos of how they envisioned Brian… As I couldn’t quite picture him..
Once I got writing, I deviated from the real life band, especially personality-wise, as the fictional characters became more “real” to me than real-life rock stars, but yes, they were the original inspiration.
I loved Myrna and how she made Brian feel!
2.75 stars.Maybe if I read this a few years ago I might have enjoyed it more.I like sex in my books but sometimes it can be overkill.I think our reading preferences evolve over time and mine definitely have. Need something with more of a storyline in my books.Not a bad read. Not sure if I will continue with the series.
I am officially a Sinners Fan GirlI recommend this hot sexy read to those of you who like reading novels with a Smutty Bad Boy Rock band, and have no problem with all the crazy sex that happens more often than it should. LOLZ! Hey,no complaints here I love it!  Brian aka Master Sinclair is the Lead Guitarist & song writer for the Sinners rock group.He meets Myrna a college professor who specializes in Human Sexuality. How they meet is the funniest story ever,but you gotta read it yourself t
I am officially a Sinners Fan GirlI recommend this hot sexy read to those of you who like reading novels with a Smutty Bad Boy Rock band, and have no problem with all the crazy sex that happens more often than it should.
My lips are sealed.LOLZ!I loved how their story progressed from a Lust to Love relationship it was so sweet.As for the Smutty Rock Band members,they're so feckin awesome I loved their relationships towards one another they show the true meaning of friends.No matter how angry they get, deep down they're the best of friends and no one can tear them apart.
Oh Brian and his magical fingers, he can pluck my strings anytime.
Of course, the book was dripping with sensuality, no pun intended, but it was a great story.
No sense of normalcy, until Myrna comes into their lives.
She falls for Brian and they all fall for her.
Usually it's the men in the books that are older, but in this case Myrna is 7 years older than Brian, and I liked that.
Too funny!I'm looking forward to the next book.
I didn't like Sed in the beginning, but by the end of the book he was tugging at my heart.
This book ROCKED!First off I must say that if by chance that Olivia Cunning is reading this review, Thank You for writing such a fantastic story.
The love/sex scenes in this book alone deserve 5 stars and there was MANY of them.
I loved how the story explained all the characters in this book and their relationships with each other.
That really wetted my appetite for MORE book's and I am happy knowing that the other members of this series are getting their stories too.
2.5 starsUmm, well...I, uh,  Here's the bright side. I always have fun with the br girls, and this was an entertaining br. I'm glad I now know who the famous Sinners are. The best part was my friend Ada, (well, hopefully we're still friends, Lol) introduced me to a hot tattooed singer with awesome biceps and dimples. Yum, I got a little distracted watching videos of him, I'm going to let my other favorite tattooed musician sum up my feelings for the first book in the series, This is an easy revi
The best part was my friend Ada, (well, hopefully we're still friends, Lol) introduced me to a hot tattooed singer with awesome biceps and dimples.
I'm going to let my other favorite tattooed musician sum up my feelings for the first book in the series,
I would recommend this book to friends who like really silly books with tons of over the top dirty sex.
I don't have a problem with dirty sex, I just need more than that.
Lucky me, I bought the box set, so hopefully I will bond more with the next book!
I loved Myrna from the moment I realized she recognizes the seething sexuality inherent in heavy metal music--something I think a lot of people don't get (and that's a shame, because it's an absolute goldmine).
There might have been a couple of moments I wanted to smack her for her stubbornness, but that's only because I was madly in love with Brian and wanted to yell at her to hurry up and figure out that she was, too.
It's something I think we can all relate to, but what made this book so awesome was that we see it unfold in a way that's real and, perhaps most importantly, believable.
Holy Super Sexy Series Batman!!If you're looking for your next guilty pleasure, look no further!Rock Stars + Professor of Human Sexuality + a bit of romance + a whole lot of sex = Do not attempt to read this book in public.Let's get serious for a second...
"That must be the first time that excuse has ever been used to avoid after-sex cuddling.” This book could easily work as a stand alone work, but it is part of the Sinners on Tour series.
My Other Reviews in the Sinners on Tour Series:
- Sinners Rock the Cradle - Anxiously Awaiting Publication8.
You can tell I read a lot of romance and not much erotica, because when our heroine Myrna meets sexy rockstar Brian and all his sexily-named band-mates, my first innocent thought was, “Gee, I bet all those other guys are going to have their own stories later,” not “Woo hoo, I bet all those other guys are also going to get it on with Myrna!” As it turned out, the focus is on the primary relationship with Brian, though a couple of the other guys do come into the story, if you know what I mean and I think you do.This was a kink smorgasbord, with a little bit of this and a little bit of that.
As smut goes, this was pretty fun porn.
What happens on a molecular level that brings about the funky smell of teenage and 20ish something boys?"Vacation" was really a documentary about what happens to parents stuck in the car with their kids for too long.So, in this book, we have Myrna (nice name, grandma!), who is a college professor of Human Sexuality, and 35 yrs old.
She has a one-night stand with Brian, the lead guitarist of the metal band, romantic boy, and 28 yrs old.
That's really the plot.It was still some pretty good smut.
Just as I remembered...HOT!!!I swear I get shifty eyes when I listen to books this HOT. I'm convinced that EVERYONE around me can hear, too. Yeah, yeah, judge me all you like...I'm just interested in the storyline (wink, wink).
The band consist of the following members: Brian Sinclair, lead guitarist; Sedric Lionheart, lead singer; Trey Mills, rhythm guitarist; Eric Sticks, drummer; and Jace Seymour, bass.5 stars for erotic - of the 378 pages, most are filled with hot-steamy sex scenes -- vanilla-bondage-ménage-anal-voyeurism-mild m/m- sex in public-oral-sex toys-and I'm sure I've left some out.
www.sinnersontour.comBrian Sinclair Lead Guitarist, ComposerPicture taken from Sinners webpage(view spoiler)[Favorite Instrument: Schecter Hellraiser custom, black w/white flecks Born: February 21 Vitals: Black hair, brown eyes, 5’10″ tallKnown for his finger-burning solos, some say Brian “Master” Sinclair was born with a guitar in his hands.
Previous bands: Lead guitarist for Crysys  (hide spoiler)]
Hot, hot, hot read. But how can you go wrong with rock stars and sex!Brian is a hero I'd let write music on my body any time.
Adult review for erotic content3.5 stars. Second Read 06/12 with the SM girls  "Nnggnn," she groaned.  Nnggnn, indeed.I keep wavering between a 3 and a 4 star rating. For erotica, it's pretty consistent with the amount of sexual scenarios, which I know did shock some people who thought this book was contemporary romance. Don't be fooled. There's going to be acts of voyeurism, light BDSM, threesomes, anal play, etc. packed into this book. It is a story about rock stars and their lifestyle. If you
For erotica, it's pretty consistent with the amount of sexual scenarios, which I know did shock some people who thought this book was contemporary romance.
The plot does take a while to develop but I loved going back on tour with the sinners and remembering where and why I fell in love with Brian (and Trey) in the first place.Myrna never really did it for me.
(hide spoiler)] I remember thinking the first time I read the book that it was bizarre how Brian would write music during sex.
During the second read I really enjoyed these scenes.In my original review, I pointed out how I could never date a rock star and this hasn't changed.
Just finished this book for a second time with my Smut Monday friends.
I enjoyed it every bit as much the second time as the first.
I will say this time around I have to agree with some of my smut Monday friends in that (view spoiler)[the threesome with Trey, Brian and Myrna didn't fit as well.
So I look at it as him loving her and wanting to experience everything with her.
I still am in shock that Trey is in love with Brian.
I really enjoyed this story however I wish there was a little more of a storyline with the steaminess of this book.
Backstage Pass is the first book in Olivia Cunning’s Sinners on Tour series.
And I’ll let you in on a little secret - I didn’t even review this book back when I read it because I was embarrassed to admit I had read such a super naughty book… and loved it!
There are many Rock Star books out there, but I’ll tell you this – I've yet to find one that even comes close to being as awesome as Backstage Pass!
Because there's a good, solid story here.
There's a great story here and the sex is just the icing on the already deliciously decadent cake!
3.5 StarsNow THAT was pure, smutty fun! :DThe review is still rattling around in my head, but I have to get a few things out. Haha…1. Brian and Myrna’s story never touched my heart, but I’m okay with that really. Nothing wrong with fun and sex! Lots & lots of sex! :) Brian was sweet and funny, but I had no feelings for Myrna. *shrugs* Well she did irritate me at the end with this--(view spoiler)[She was waiting for me him to say it first! What!? Everyone knew Brian loved her—she did too. She
Brian and Myrna’s story never touched my heart, but I’m okay with that really.
Nothing wrong with fun and sex!
*shrugs* Well she did irritate me at the end with this--(view spoiler)[She was waiting for me him to say it first!
The only time this story touched my heart was at the end with a scene and revelation involving Trey.
I’m not sure if that scene held more of a powerful punch for me because Trey was my guy from the start or if it spoke to everyone, but it broke my heart.
Thanks for another fun, sexy ride, Ladies!
HMMM.. how do I describe this book?? well...it was like...and then there was this..Oh and I can't get this outta my head...This book has a little bit of everything...doesn't it?! On to the next, how much more dirty can it get?!?
I'll admit I skimmed over some of the sex scenes as not everything in this book is my 'thing', but overall this was a great romantic/erotica read with two wonderful lead characters that made me laugh so many times.
Brian really fit the mold of a rocker.
Myrna is a closet rocker chick who dresses in prim suits, she has a PhD in sexual psychology, and is even a few years older than Brian.
In my limited experience, it's a rare for an erotica book to have both a great story and sizzling hot sex scenes that don't feel cheesy or repetitive, but Olivia Cunning really pulled it off.
Go into it like you'd go into a one night stand...don't expect anything more than some good and sexy times. Deep, meaningful, and lasting isn't in the cards. But it was fun while it lasted! Sed has me riled...I bet he's going to be lots of fun!
Bu yorum aynı zamanda Romancekolikte yayınlanmıştır."Bu kadar beğenen varsa bu işte bir şey vardır diyor ve şarkıcı karakterlere karşı olan ön yargımı bir kenara alıyorum."Demişim ve iyi ki demişim! Kitapta insanı moda sokan bir şey var. Açıkçası başlarken bunu beklemiyordum. Beni uzun süredir kitabı okumaktan uzak tutan faktör ise çoklu partner olayıydı. Onuda çok fazla göze batırıcı ve sık bir şekilde koymamış ortaya neyse ki. En şaşırdığım olay ise bir şarkıcıyı hele ki bir rock starını baş
Kitapta insanı moda sokan bir şey var.
Onuda çok fazla göze batırıcı ve sık bir şekilde koymamış ortaya neyse ki.
En şaşırdığım olay ise bir şarkıcıyı hele ki bir rock starını baş karakter olarak düşünemezken, Brian'ı bu kadar benimsemem.
28 yaşında ama gel görün ki, öyle çocuksu, iflah olmaz bir romantik tarafı var ki yerim onu ben yerimmmm.
Bu sözlerimden çok romantik bir kitap olduğunu sanmayın.
Gözümde şöyle bir şey canlandı şahsen;Buda arada kendimi bulduğum hallerden biri.
İşin çok fazla cıvığını çıkaran bir durum yok.
Bu olay ise Brian - yani grubun gitaristlerinden biri - ile arasında bir ilişkiye götürmüştür işi.
