https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17872481-commentary
Ce roman, aussi intitulé Commentaire, est l'unique œuvre de Marcelle Sauvageot (1900-1934), une française emportée par la tuberculose. Elle aime un homme, dont elle s'éloigne de par la nécessité de recevoir des soins dans un sanatorium. Au bout de quelques années, elle reçoit une lettre où il annonce qu'il se marie, et souhaite conserver son amitié. Pour elle, déjà diminuée par la maladie et l'isolement, c'est un choc terrible. «Je me marie… Notre amitié demeure…» Je ne sais pas ce qui s'est pas
Ce roman, aussi intitulé Commentaire, est l'unique œuvre de Marcelle Sauvageot (1900-1934), une française emportée par la tuberculose.
Au bout de quelques années, elle reçoit une lettre où il annonce qu'il se marie, et souhaite conserver son amitié.
Pour elle, déjà diminuée par la maladie et l'isolement, c'est un choc terrible.
«Je me marie… Notre amitié demeure…» Je ne sais pas ce qui s'est passé.
De manière systématique, elle démonte et expose tout, en particulier les défauts de ce goujat.
Le ton est si juste que l'écoute respectueuse prend le pas sur la commisération qui nous étreint.
The problem is that none of this is explained to the reader because there are no notes from the translators, which is a great disservice to the reader and an injustice to the author’s prose; in fact, there is little to no biographical information on Marcelle Sauvageot, which is a shame, especially when curious readers discover that her Wiki page is in French.
The translation does not inform the reader that the French text does not distinguish the nature of the relationship.
Lo scrisse di getto sotto la spinta della più' sincera e spietata indignazione , dell'orgoglio ferito, del dolore.Racconta di un amore bruciato.
E’ un vero copione da antologia di quella specialissima situazione che è la fine dell’amore, di un amore sbagliato.Alcune personali impressioni lettura le ho messo altrove, solo per chi è davvero curioso o cultore di questo genere di sconfitta o"semplicemente" scottato.http://scarabooks.blogspot.it/2012/08...Qui mi limito a dire che è anche un piccolo gioiello di letteratura intima, di acuta e feroce introspezione.Peccato sia introvabile nella edizione di Guanda (una vergogna).
Verbazingwekkende 'ovni' van de Franse letteren, een heuse 'perlouse' uit 1933, het enige gepubliceerde werk van de nobele onbekende Sauvageot. In het sanatorium waar ze wordt behandeld, krijgt een jonge vrouw een brief van haar geliefde die aankondigt dat hij trouwt met een ander. Haar antwoord is de verbijsterende autopsie van een breuk, het onderkoelde relaas van een onthechting, een geniale 'commentaar' op de trouweloze die zijn geliefde verlaat. Elegant, beheerst, bezield, zeldzaam als een zwarte parel.
"Out of a certain lover's puerility, I had promised you that I would always retain a small particle of true love for you, even if I loved passionately elsewhere... [W]ithin me is your image, taking up all the room; for me not to suffer anymore, you have to leave, so that one day, when it is uttered in front of me, your name will blow by me without touching a thing. I need this erasure..."
If I could, I would give the book six stars. It is an extraordinary, outstanding book about love, hope and despair. An attempt to understand what is beyond our possibilities to understand: love, rejection.This is one of the most honest and staggering examples of literature I know.
I was capsized in this text
Magnifique et bouleversant. L'auteure nous emporte dans la violence contenue de ses sentiments suite à une rupture amoureuse. Un très beau texte, profondément humain et féministe.
Published in 1933, this 2013 translation by Christine Schwartz Hartley and Anna Moschovakis is 'Commentary (a tale)'s first appearance in English. Fixed with the sharp gaze of unsent letters, Marcelle Sauvageot's novella is an emotionally bare, clear-eyed denouement.
i guess i should trust book reviews less. Just a boring long rant of love cliches.
"Da sempre cercavo qualcuno davanti a cui proiettare il mio film. Non è forse di ogni essere umano questa debolezza?" (p. 58)

In my review of the 2014 Independent Foreign Fiction Prize shortlisted “The Mussel Feast”, back in early April, why did it take twenty-three years for a work being celebrated in its native language before the English speaking and reading world discovers it?
Well if that sounds outrageous, this work, was originally published back in 1933 and has undergone NINE republications in France.
English readers get to see it for the first time in 2014!!
This “tale” is a monologue, taking in her journey to a sanatorium to recover from her illness:For my full review go to http://messybooker.blogspot.com.au/
Commentary may feel somewhat familiar to contemporary readers, but I want to make the case it is only a feeling of familiarity. What we have here is unique. The text is structured as a series of reflective, perhaps furious, letters (which the authors has no intention of sending) to her former lover. In these letters/reflections, she explores her dismay, with hints of bitterness subsumed by sadness.For more of my thoughts, see my post on my blog, The Mookse and the Gripes.
Sauvageot wrote Commentary in a sanitarium not long before her death from tuberculosis, and it lies somewhere between ﬁction and memoir, reading like a journal or a collection of letters-not-sent to a lover who has announced from afar that he will marry another woman. She expresses her anger and disappointment while analyzing the societal forces playing outside of the relationship itself. It’s amazingly feminist for its time, intimate in its sadness and deﬁantly hopeful. Read more on the booklog
"If only I could have begun the scene again to kiss that face and say "I will not betray you." But things do not begin again; and I must not have uttered that sentence, for I don't know how to speak at the right moment or with the appropriate tone. I am too easily overcome by emotion, and I harden myself to avoid giving in to it. How can one possibly convey the full sense of turmoil produced by an emotion at the precise moment it occurs?"Beautifully written.
Just re-read this, still amazing.Her emotional insight and startling honesty combine for a powerful tonic to the all too often wanton and certain language with which people talk about love as if they know what we talk about when talk about love.It is painful to watch her lash out against herself and Him, but also fiercely moving and enlivening.We all know what it is to be driven mad by our passion for another, but Sauvageot finds a way to give this common madness a true voice
I found this on a friend's bookshelf, stole it, and read in one sitting. It's the perfect book to read if you are a smart woman who has lost love or a sense of self (or is struggling to integrate the two); it is an achievement of anger, grief and intellectual inquiry, and an intimate encounter with the clarity of illness. Why have I not heard of Marcelle Sauvageot before? Thank you, Ugly Duckling Press (translated beautifully by Christine Schwartz Hartley and Anna Moschovakis).
This small book articulates the logic behind the pain of separation and abandonment better than anything I've ever read. Sauvageot deftly disarms the sentimental dishonesty we normally use to discuss love and relationships, and demands a radical new form of accountability to ourselves and each other. The book holds up fabulously to second readings, too!
http://bibliotheca.skynetblogs.be/pos...
A beautifully produced, fascinating document.
Nostálgica.El libro más nostálgico.
Longlisted for the 2014 Best Translated Book Award. (And I suspect it will end up as a finalist as well . . . )
Superbe. Un récit pur et digne, une approche de la perte de l'amour (et de la nature de l'amour) tellement proche de la réalité qu'elle blesse presque.
Rating: 4.5* of five
[4.5]
