https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/104101.The_Lions_of_Al_Rassan
At the time of posting this review, there are less than 200 readers—including me—who gave it a 1 star rating, out of 15.7k ratings, don’t let this review alone be a sign for you to not try the book if you’re already interested in it.GGK fans usually recommend either Tigana or The Lions of Al-Rassan when asked on which GGK’s book to start with, this is not the first time I read GGK’s work, I’ve read Tigana and I love that book, I gave it 4.5/5 stars, but this book for me is a far cry from that.
The Lions of al-Rassan is a sweeping historical epic that examines the price of war, the deadly toll on lives that can occur when religion and politics meet and clash, the seemingly endless give and take between Christians & Muslims & Jews, the power that certain charismatic individuals can exert during times of tumult and change, and - just as important as everything i've mentioned - the nature of love and of friendship.
its cast features El Cid and Ibn Ammar; it is set during Moorish Spain.actually, no it isn't set there and those characters are nowhere to be found in this novel.
If I scored my nerd tendencies I’d fall much closer on the scale to comic books and Star Trek than to Lord of the Rings and other swords-n-sorcery kind of fantasy which is weird because I do enjoy the kind of world building and political intrigue that is often a big part of the genre.
My hesitation about reading more of this kind of stuff is due in no small part to how it seems like common practice for fantasy authors of turning those stories into multi-book epics, but then stalling out in the middle of a series and leaving fans hanging for years while they work on other projects.
The story had moments of interest but overall I felt cynically manipulated at every point.Points that made it impossible to enjoy this book:The setting: Medieval history – particularly the very era when the Reconquista was getting underway – was my focus in college and in my post-graduate studies.
The in-your-face nature of the writing made it impossible for me to get into the story or to give a damn about the characters.Point two is that Rodrigo et al.
I feel like I should have loved this book. Parts of it were so good and it had that tortured world gritty feel to it that's right up my alley. Friends on GR who share common interests one and all loved it. But my god the middle 60% was a slog for me. I had to put it down and restart it so many times. The ending tragic and redeeming but I still can't give it more than 2.5*'s.
First of all, allow me to give Kiala her due for picking this book for Vaginal Fantasy.
I was constantly trying to make parallels between the nations, religions and peoples of the book with our own world history, and that was perhaps a little distracting.
But, to the story.
This book does many things, and it does them all well.
The people in this book are complex, and you'll come to care deeply about many of them.
There is romance, and it is very complicated.
Life is complicated.
Good people can do terrible things.

All the Stars.It’s a slow burn.
I can easily acknowledge that, but the characters are intriguing from the start and Kay’s writing is just beautiful.
It might be a slow burn, but before you know it, you can’t put it down and then tears are streaming down your face but you still can’t stop.
I love Kay’s writing.
I love the little touches of metaphor sprinkled throughout, and how I’m still not sure I’ve caught them all.I could try to write a serious review, but I think Alissa's review is pretty perfect.I recommend this book to everyone.
You will fall in love with one of the characters in this book.
He is a master storyteller, a world-weaver like few others, and his skillful pen draws for us characters we would love to share a meal, a bed, a life, a world with.In the end, this book is a sad one, an evocation of how when the world turns, some rise up while others must be ground down.
The people you fall in love with die in this book, and it's not suprising....
Do yourself a favor and read this book NOW.
On a day that was known as “day of moat”, physician Jehane bet Ishak, a Kindath, met Ammar ibn Khairan, most famous Ashar warrior, and Ser Rodrigo Belmonte, a fierce Jad captain.
This is the story of how these three become friends and what they choose when it come to make a decision between friendship, religion and love.
He has created three exceptional characters in Jehane, Ammar and Rodrigo.
Their journey till the end of the book is breathtakingly beautiful.
Or why we can’t accept each other as Husari (Ashar) and Alvar (Jad) did in the book and how beautifully Husari described this union:
I needed a couple of days to let this sink in before writing a review.
That's how powerful the book was, and its incredible ending.This is one of those books that it's very difficult to write a spoiler-free review for.
I could mark it as such and go for it, but then people that haven't read the book will skip the review.The Lions of Al-Rassan is a book I will push on friends.
I won't say it's my all-time favorite, but it's on the short list.So, without spoilers, let's see what we can do.
This book is a great example of what epic fantasy should be.
Along with her, we met Ammar ibn Khairan of Aljais, the poet who murdered the last khalif of Silvanes, debonair, beguiling and Asharite, and the former constable of Valledo, Rodrigo Belmonte, strong, possessed of a keen intelligence and Jaddite.“You touched people’s lives, glancingly, and those lives changed forever.”The different factions come alive thought the book with impeccable timing, while the story deepens and the reader gains more insight about the political strife within and without the kingdoms.
I'm don't tend to be a crier when I read. If a book can make me cry it deserves 5 stars. The story was woven together so well that the last chapter and epilogue sucker punched you. Yes there were tears. Yes the book by the end moved me that much. Readers of historical fantasy you might just find this book, inspired by medieval Spain, a story you will love.
I have heard him recommended so many times and I have come across devoted fans that will praise his prose endlessly.
One of the first things I took note about this book is that it is brutal.
And reading on, I don’t know if it is indicative of all his books, but for this one, it made so much sense for him to capture atrocities of war and present them to the reader for this particular book.
Because when it’s all said and read, this book is about war.
It’s all in the name of war or religion.
Characters don't have sex, they indulge in lovemaking (yes, the word lovemaking was actually used in the book), perfectly cleaned bodies in soft light draped by strategically placed sheets.
Banter between the female lead and the men who would give their lives to protect her.
No matter how the book ends, this movie will end with a sweeping shot in melancholy light of the lands that these manly men fought their way across.
You leave the theater feeling a little melancholy yourself, not just because of the story, but because of the beauty and unattainable perfection of the characters, and then you get a burger and coke and forget about it.
August 2017 buddy read with Candace! Our BR only got delayed about a year...
Wow. I don't even know what to say.
This was only my second Kay novel, the first being A Song for Arbonne, and I didn't really know what to expect.
But I had found it in a used book store for cheap, so I decided to try it out.
The entire book was wonderfully written.
I really fell in love with the characters, and that's something that is very important to me.I'm not just giving this five stars..
According to GR, five stars means "It was amazing".
Lots of books can be amazing, and you can absolutely love them.
But this book..
This book I fell in love with.
Guy Gavriel Kay's Lions of al-Rassan offers a slightly veiled take on the al-Andalusian period in medieval Spain, replacing the Catholic Spanish with the Jaddites, the Jewish diaspora with the Kindath, and the Muslims with the Asharites.
It is from these benevolent moments, springing out of two cultures of fundamentalism, superstition and ever changing power, that Kay delivers us his message of hope.
Some of the criticism I have read of the Lions of al-Rassan, takes Kay to task for both the almost superhuman skills of his main players, and what is often seen as the black and white of their beliefs and actions.
And that is the place from which the hope of The Lions of al-Rassan springs.
Exquisite prose. Superb characterization. A tale that will incite emotions of love and hate. Historical fiction does not get better than this my friends! A novel I am unlikely to ever forget.
Book 9 of my 2016 Kay reading marathon, predictably I loved it!
There were quite a few emotional moments while reading this, and though I feel like they could have been better written (which I will get to in a bit), I still felt for the characters and the things that happened to them.
At times it was overwhelming in the amount of information given at once, but still I felt like there was still more I wanted to know.
I wanted to love this book.
But the writing here just felt like it got in the way of the story.
The very clever author of Jonathan Strange and Mr. Morrell was making me laugh and feel clever myself.I was in the middle of this book and was feeling nothing.
The prose just didn't seem to support these repeated hyper dramas airdropped into the story from time to time.So, unlike the other books I was reading at the time, I was feeling nothing--and then at the end of the book, when it became obvious what it was I was supposed to be feeling, it just didn't work for me.
I hope no one reading this review who loved the book will hate me for what I am saying.
I was very excited to read this because of the premise: Alternate medieval Al-Andalus, clash of cultures and religions, the fall of an Empire, the end of an era, and romance!By the time I got 100 pages into it, I was skimming.
I was all set for really compelling cultural clashes, and the meaningful address of religious importance and differences.Instead, religion was treated with a very light (almost non-existent) hand by the main characters (because the author wants you to like them) and outside of those you were to like, religion was a statesman's tool or a caricature of religion.
I usually have a rule that if a book doesn't grab my attention within 50 pages, I just drop it and move on.
I gave The Lions of Al-Rassan a good chance with 150 pages, and it still utterly failed to grab me.
Maybe it was a bad idea to read a high-minded historical fantasy epic right after The Black Company.
Or maybe I'm too old and grumpy for bombastic opera-like fantasies.
Maybe A Game of Thrones has made fantasy unpalatable unless it features a threshold amount of scars and realpolitik.
I know it's historical fantasy.
But The Lions of Al-Rassan is just stripped down, diluted Moorish Spain.
Το μόνο κακό με τα βιβλία του είναι ότι κάποιες φορές στο τέλος λες "αυτό είναι όλο; Δεν έχει άλλο;".
Αν προσθέσουμε, μάλιστα, και το γεγονός ότι σε όλη τη διάρκεια του το βιβλίο προσφέρει πολύ τροφή για σκέψη πάνω στα θέματα του ρατσισμού, της θρησκείας και του πολέμου, με φόντο ένα σκηνικό παρμένο από την πραγματική ιστορία της μεσαιωνικής Ισπανίας που ακόμα κυριαρχούνταν από τους μουσουλμάνους, τότε το βιβλίο δύσκολα μπορώ να το βαθμολογήσω με κάτι λιγότερο από τον ύψιστο βαθμό.
Το θέμα είναι όμως ότι αυτή η "τσιγκουνιά" που αναφέρω στην αρχή με άφησε λίγο με το αίσθημα του ανικανοποίητου, οπότε θα πάει η βαθμολογία ελάχιστα πιο χαμηλά.
Crying. Crying helplessly. What a book.

First GGK book, I eventually chose to read this before Tigana, i'm happy I did. I'm truly lost for words, this was simply a great experience. I can't find any fault with the world, characters or the story. Rodrigo and Ammar were my favorites among st so many awesome characters.I will definitely re-read this book later. I hope to read Tigana soon.
I was more than halfway through, and getting a little frustrated and somewhat bored with Kay's POV changes and introduction of new and mostly peripheral characters so far into the book.
This is the fourth Kay book I've read, and I find myself a little put off by his distant approach to events that are positively horrifying.
Kay's descriptions of the characters and their feelings so closely mirrored my own that it was hard to separate.Finally, at the end, the book left me horribly sad and I find I have to give it five stars, not because I enjoyed it but because it's obviously a case of art mirroring life to the nth degree and a work of genius.REREAD: 7/18/2012 I'm glad I read this another time even though I'm left with a feeling of overwhelming sadness.
The story follows people of the 3 religions of the region: Jaddites (Christians), Kindaths (Jews), and Asarites (Muslims).Our main characters are a Kindath physician, a Jaddite army captain and his new recruit, and an Asharite assassin.
There are a host of secondary characters that largely took away from our main four: Jehane, Rodrigo, Alvar, and Ammar respectively.
These characters all have great depth and personalities that I would have liked to have seen explored more.The story itself would have been better served over multiple volumes as well.
(hide spoiler)]I enjoyed the story but was largely disappointed by the end.
