https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/336895.Mormon_Doctrine
The author was never reticent about expressing his views as fact. Fortunately, as he gained more knowledge, he was quick to modified his views. Since he passed away in 1985, his views expressed in this book have been frozen in time while if he were still around they might be different. The information is this book should be considered one stop on the path of gospel research and not the destination.
No other book has done more damage to the LDS church than this collection of Elder McConkie's opinions.
McConkie was not an apostle yet) it was pulled from the shelves by David O.
McKay who found it so offensive he asked McConkie not to republish it even if he did make corrections.If you visit the southern U.S. you will not find a single pastor that does not have a collection of quotes from Mormon Doctrine that he can pull out if any of his flock express interest in LDS beliefs, and erroneously say, "See what Mormons believe?"Among LDS believers, we are still in the slow process of healing from the wrong-headed opinions professed in this book about sex, science, race, and scores of other topics.
McConkie's personal views on the religion; it's unfortunate because he presents them as though they were the official and doctrinal stances of the LDS Church.
This is not an official statement of belief or doctrine of the LDS Church.
One of the differences between the LDS Church and many other organized churches is that members of the LDS Church are expected to seek spiritual confirmation of any statements which their leaders present as doctrine, and the leaders of the church are allowed to voice their own personal views or opinions without having them be considered "doctrine".
Examples would be:Ephesians 51 Corinthians 51 Nephi 14As well as the vast bulk of the Old Testament.These critics would also be just as harsh if they were to honestly review the meaning of the following of Christ's words without knowing they were spoken by our great exemplar, the Son of God."Thou art an offence unto me: for thou savourest not the things that be of God, but those that be of men.""Whosoever committeth sin is the servant of sin.""For every one that doeth evil hateth the light, neither cometh to the light, lest his deeds should be reproved.""D&C 84:49 And the whole world lieth in sin, and groaneth under darkness and under the bondage of sin.
One of the more definitive Mormon doctrinal encyclopediae, helpful for anybody with deep questions about what the church believes. Offers concise summaries of Mormon beliefs about everything from sex, Sundays, and the nature of god to the location of the lost tribes of Israel and the second coming of Christ.McConkie was infamously opinionated, and peppered the first edition with rants against chiropractors, psychologists, hypnotists, and the Catholic church. Church leadership required him to remove much of this from later editions.
A recommended this book for its clarity and eloquence, but the title is a little misleading. They should have stayed with the more accurate title: "Bruce McConkie's Personal Opinion About Different Gospel Stuffs".The 1st edition is much spicier if you can find it.And while the book itself doesn't contain much in the way of a narrative or drama, the story of how the book was published and republished has enough drama for a week of telenovelas.
I read it with all five fingers usually marking places at once of other entries that I needed to read--I would read one, and two or three others would come to my mind that I also wanted to check out--eventually I gave up using my fingers (I didn't have enough) and got slips of paper instead.
It is McConkie's opinion, and sometimes that is very obvious (such as the first edition entry on why blacks don't have the priesthood, which changed in later editions to be less inflamatory).
Never has a book been so poorly named.Written ostensibly as an encyclopedic overview of the beliefs of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Mormon Doctrine is instead a remarkable and at times terrifying introduction to the perspectives of one very prominent mid-20th century General Authority of the church.
I certainly acknowledge that McConkie is entitled to his opinions and beliefs, many of which are based on his own personal spiritual experiences.
But it is a profound tragedy that many Mormons and non-Mormons have turned to this book--and hence McConkie's worldview--as the authoritative source for LDS theology.
Although this book has now become "Mormon Opinion" by many mainstream LDS, I love that this apostle was bold enough to try and define what exactly Mormon doctrine is. I have referenced this book several times during my life.
Well, I can't say that I didn't enjoy this book, because I certainly did, but I didn't enjoy it in the same way that I did when I read it as a 14 year old.
Anyway, my 14 year old self was very impressed with McConkie's grasp on every important gospel topic, but my adult self is not nearly as impressed.Given the many harmful doctrines in this book (and yes, I absolutely concede the point that this is not an official church document and is not an official statement of doctrine by the church.
It's an interesting approach to explaining Mormonism. Though it can't be classified as "doctrine" being that it is the opinion of one man and not endorsed by the church itself, it does offer some interesting and rather insightful view points about the LDS faith. But of course to find absolute truth, all ideas and comments made in the text must be compared with what is in the scriptures and what the prophets, through modern revelation, have told us is truth.
I feel weird giving this just one star in the same way I feel weird giving a movie like Troll 2 just one star inasmuch as both are so heinously awful and repulsive that it is morbidly enjoyable to experience them. Thrill-seekers are advised to read through the section on evolution in its entirety.
Most of the book is quite fine and a good place to begin a study of a particular Mormon doctrine but contains a number of entries that are, to be frank, alarming in both their strength and their position (Higher Criticism, Evolution, Caste System, and a number of others). Definitely not what the title describes, but more accurately is Elder McConkie's 1960s and 1970s Doctrine.
Like one of the other reviewers, when I first picked up a copy of Mormon Doctrine, I just started reading it, and only superficially recognized that it was a resource book. Also, I believe that the book was in a state of flux and I wish it could still be getting updates from where Elder McConkie is laboring now.
Total horse shit.
Critics of this book are like fish without scales and fins. Those that understand the scriptural symbolism will understand the review.
My dad read this to me as I was going through high school. It is Bruce R. McConkie's opinion on church doctrine.
This book has been a bit problematic in that interspersed with sound doctrinal exegesis there are many strongly held opinions regarding areas where there has been less light forthcoming.
His strident take on evolution, the negro race, Catholicism and other areas probably mellowed over the years and my own opinions have been modified as well.
In the meantime, I am very comfortable with evolution and the sciences, I love many African American people who I know very well (knowing individuals is always better than lumping everyone into groups) and I have deep respect for the Catholic faith.
Somewhat informative on topics such as basic concepts of faith and historical context. However, much of Bruce R. McConkie's personal opinion is stated as doctrine and has either been specifically contradicted by later leaders or has been outright denounced. Still, like many books, there is much good in it if the reader is discerning and knows what topics this book can easily address.
I have heard a lot of negative things about this book, but I was extremely impressed.
The breadth and depth of the book are impressive and a learned a ton.
While some people disagree with his theories I didn't find any to be doctrinally unsound, I just think people try to put boundaries on God instead of accepting that there is so much, especially in regards to science and the Earth's history, that we just don't understand.
Science is based on man's observation and God's power and influence aren't one of the "forces" included in any scientific laws or theories (see Isaiah 55:8-9).
Bruce R McConkie was one of the greatest LDS scholars of our time and his years of notes were compiled into this book.
Mormon Doctrine is an excellent reference book for talks, personal study, research, and gaining gospel knowledge.
Though I cannot say I have read it from cover to cover I can say I have spent many hours using it and studying varying topics which is the main purpose of the book.
It is a study guide, a springboard into other research on any given topic.
Magnificent compilation of information, it is a starting gate to greater gospel research.
Although not officially sanctioned by the Church, it was the best encyclopedic reference on Mormonism for it's day. And yes, I have read it from cover to cover. :) For a newer reference see either Encyclopedia Of Mormonism (a semi-official Church publication) or True to the Faith (an official Church publication).
If you want to read the REAL nitty-gritty that the Mormon leadership does NOT want you to see, scrounge up the 1958 edition. This was the "raw" text, and pestered the LDS big-wigs mightily.This tome amounts, to the rest of us, to a confession... as its contents are shocking, and at times scary. The only nail you need to seal the coffin regarding the "are the Mormons Christians" debate.The vehement anti-Roman Catholic diatribe is a must-read. (Don't look for this in later, watered-down, editions)
I first obtained my own copy of this book as an undergrad. I gave it to myself as a gift after taking the GMAT. I have moved from big fan of McConkie to being pretty critical of his theology (so to speak) as I have aged. Much of what is in this book I no longer agree with. I think it is his conservative opinion of Mormon Doctrine. This is part of the reason it is not "approved" by the church. That said it is a classic of Mormon literature.
I have to give this book a lot of credit. It taught me a lot about the beliefs of the LDS Church during a time when I was investigating the Church & I was hungry for information. However, despite the book's name, this book should not be taken as official Church doctrine. It is evident that Elder McConkie's personal opinions sometimes did manage to creep into the book, and sometimes I disagreed with him.
where to begin... well the first edition(s) of this book included McConkie's doctrine on the blacks being inferior to whites. many other fun gems as well. later editions made ommitions. after this book was written, all publications by general authorities of the church had to be approved by the first presidency! (mcconkie was an apostle).
I would give this book a much higher rating if it was actually Mormon doctrine and not Bruce R's opinions of Mormon Doctrine. Although he is correct in many instances he is also very far off the actual doctrine in others. His opinion in the end may turn out to be correct but that doesn't make it doctrine currently.
I like where it says President Spencer Kimball had a divine revelation pertaining to the previously held ban on black men entering into the priesthood, and this revelation told him to lift that ban. This was 1978. I guess He (God) had been busy with other things before he got around to taking care of that one.
Although this title is a misnomer, the book is not Mormon Doctrine, more like some possible teachings of Mormonism. I like the first edition, much more controversial but closer to what early Mormons taught and believed excepting Adam God and Blood Atonement along with a few others. As always there are changes to the doctrines within Mormonism.
A good source for looking up the church's stand on various topics. IMy first baby was full term stil born - the bishop siad no need to record. But I read Mormon Doctrine and made a different decision. Of coursce, we must always look to the most recent discussions by current church leaders to get the most accurate info.
