https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6185643-the-book-of-woman
He claims that it is not natural for humans to be monogamous and supports cheating.
Humans have evolved to be monogamous just as finches have evolved to crack nuts so the don't starve; just as insects have grown resistant to insecticides; just as viruses have evolved to better kills us.
For someone who preaches so much about love, he sure has an awful lot of hatred inside of him.I honestly think he he is doing one of two things with his writing: He is going along with the popular opinion to gain popularity.
He is also going against popular opinion in order to get people talking about his book.
As Osho says, he shouldn't be considered a man writer who has written about women's minutest feelings, but as a person who stands in the midway dissolving into both the genders, he proves his concept well with his perspectives about a woman.
Awesome book. No doubt ........I think women should read to this book.Women need one fire , Who change all wrong their structures & customs.
إن الرجل والمرأة هما وتران لقيثارة واحدة . وعندما ينفصلان يعانيان معا. وبسبب هذه المعاناةوعدم فهم سببها الحقيقى يبدآن بالانتقام من بعضهما بعضا .
أوشو لم يستطع أن يقتل الرجل الذي في داخله عندما يكتب لأنه الكتاب كان محوره أو لنقل الغالب عليه العلاقة الحميمة، و يقول أيضاً أن الرجل يهمه العلاقة الحميمة و ينحصر تفكيره في الشهوة بينما المرأة لا ينحصر تفكيرها في هذه الأشياء.
ربما يريد أوشو أن يصل إلى أن المرأة من حيث الذكاء العاطفي فهي أقوى من الرجل.ثالثاً/ ظلمت المرأة على مدى العصور و لا أحد ينكر ذلك، و في كل البلدان.
"he (Khalil Gibran) is supporting the idea that you must experience pain." Osho seems not to like the idea.
And pain is what makes us more humble, its a preventive tap that allows us to remain grounded.
I never thought Osho would be so indignant enough to say a lot of rather, for a lack of a better word, stupid things!
This is his first book that i have read and im not sure if I would want to pick up another one by him after this, humiliating experience.
What marred the book for me was the repetitions and the juvenile and almost kiddish style of writing.
I would like to say that this book had been much more wonderful if Osho had stuck to the concept of spirituality only (in which he is a master) Instead he starts talking about the gender biasing.He uses this theme repeatedly to make the poor woman feel more miserable about her status in her society.I mean women don't need a book to know how they are tortured in their lives and for how many years.Some of his idea about how life should be led by a common man, are very funny (like when he advises that if a child wants to play with his/her sex organ, don't stop him/her and bingo the child would grow up like a pervert)Don't use any discipline with Children as it would be like possessing them.
لم يقدم ما هو جديد واظنه بالغ بتركيزه الخلاف وحصره اياه بنقطة معينه, اعجبني تحليله للألم مستشهداًبكل
There are some books that can be finished in a single go,and then there are some books that demands 
When I watched Osho's videos, I found his voice made me sleepy, so finding his books in my local library was wonderful! There are many inspirational things in this book. I have to say that I like his philosophy, even though there are some parts where I wouldn't agree (but those are in the minority). In short, great book, very refreshing and possible even eye-opening!
1.5 EstrelasIdentifiquei-me com cerca de 15% daquilo que o autor afirma nesta obra. O restante para além de me ter chocado deixou-me indignada várias vezes. Esta foi a minha estreia com o autor através de uma recomendação. Tão cedo não me imagino a ler mais nada dele.
a must read book, The author takes us to a new level, thoroughly criticize the society and the mindset of people. An eye opener
طبعاً على مدى عدد كبير من الصفحات كان حديث أوشو مركز حول العلاقة الحميمة، وكيف أن الرجل في هذا الموضوع أيضاً اضطهد المرأة وأذَلّها ( لاحظوا هنا ..
هذا التعميم موجود على مدى الكتاب بشكل كامل ).
فيلم هندي مكتمل الأركان حقيقةً، الآن علمت سر الأفلام الهندية!وبعد ذلك دخل بموضوع الأنا والأنانية و و و و و ..إلى ان أوصلنا مرة أخرى الى ان الرجل شرير وخبيث ومستذئب!خلط كبير جداً!نقطة أخيرة مهمة أحب أن أذكرها، وهي مجموعة تفاسيره لقضية الحُبّ.
إذاً الحب بين الطرفين لم يكن حقيقة، كان وهماً، هو غير موجود أصلاً إذا أقررنا نحن أيضاً هذه الحكمة.
Only with his eloquence that helped him convey the same idea in a variety of ways did his followers manage to have a flurry of books and CDs published against his name.
With his having given thousands of such discourses, it becomes easier for his followers to publish ‘books’ on various topics with different combinations of such questions and answers.
‘The Book of Woman’ comes across as another such publication that helps the publisher mint money using that ever-attractive name of Osho.
Words from the master are filled with substance and wit. They touch one's soul, echo one's deepest emotions and reverberate within one's own existence. Life as a woman is subtle, it is selfless, it is like a burgeoning flower and Osho captures it all in this wonderful book. This book is a must read for anyone who wants to take the first step in understanding a woman, including those pseudo intellectuals who wear the mask of feminism without having the slightest clue about it !
After reading this book i have understood that "Women is to be loved, not understood" Awesome Book
Its delightfully surprising to read as Osho talks about different roles of woman and eventually of higher potential of consciousness in her!
Un libro bellísimo, que sin dudas lo volveré a leer para redescubrirlo en breve.
Əslində kitabda altını xətlədiyim bir xeyli yer olsa da, çox fikiri ilə razı deyiləm. Osho ilə dəyərlərimiz üst-üstə düşmür. Ona görə də 1 ilə qədər süründürdüm bu kitabı
"The Book of Women: Celebrating The Female Spirit" (2014) is part informational, reference, and philosophical teachings covered in 13 chapters highlighting the importance and significance of: love, marriage, sexuality, motherhood, family and birth control, creativity, the mind, meditation.
There is also a chapter of women's liberation, (which began in earnest in the US in the 1960's) also the differences between men and women.Up until reading this fascinating book, I had never heard of OSHO, who is a spiritual teacher of the OSHO International Meditation Resort, Pune, India.
An Osho book is as it is complex and when it deals with women you expect it to be more complex or at-least solving some great mysteries about women but Osho doesn't work according to your expectations(like always).
This book tells you how and where women are different to men and where, no difference exists.It efficiently deals with so many areas of women's life but there are certain topics on which I would differ.
As a woman, as an individual, I do not agree with those generalizations of qualities he did for women particularly.It's still a good book in many ways, will definitely recommend it to men and women both.
En mi opinión personal las ideas de Osho son un poco extrañas y extravagantes, no concuerdo con la mayoría. Pero no voy a negar que algunos puntos de vista son interesantes y que algo de utilidad se le puede sacar. El ritmo del libro puede ser un poco pesado, me tomó unos dos meses y medio el leerlo, cuando normalmente duro unos tres días con un libro con esta cantidad de páginas.
كتاب سيئ جداً لكاتب سيئ جداً، لغته صدامية تحريضية، متناقض، يتكلم عن الأشياء بتجرّد عن الأخلاقيات العامة والأديان، لو تبع أفكاره الناس لفسدت المجتمعات ولعاش الناس كالأنعام بل أضلّ سبيلاً..كتاب يُخشى منه أن يقع في يد مراهق في فترة بناء شخصيته وفكره..
¡Excelente libro! Me encanto como Osho puede hacerte pensar sobre temas que, aun siendo yo mujer, nunca había tomando en cuenta. Muy bueno para cuando necesitas cierta determinación y valor para tomar algunas decisiones, para reforzar el valo que tienes sobre ti misma.
I give five stars because I cannot give anymore.
Osho odpovídá na otázky ohledně žen, vztahů, lásky, manželství i mateřství. Je s podivem, jak může nějaký muž odpovědět tak výstižně a s takovým porozuměním na ženské otázky.
An awful lot of reaching for points that don't necessarily follow through sensibly. I found a lot of the ideas presented in this book to be outdated and limiting for both men and women. Not a fan.
How can i download this book
Thought provoking
هو في الاول بيبدأ وحش , وفي الاخر بيخلص وحش بردو ,الشوية الي في النص تحشيش هندي معتبر
