https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48654.Story
نمادسازی و شاعرانگیکتاب «داستان» رابرت مک کی، هر چند آن قدرها نظرم را جلب نکرد، و بیشتر راجع به فیلمنامه بود تا داستان و آن هم فیلنامه های هالیوودی و در نتیجه بیشتر حول توضیح یک سری کلیشه ها بود، اما سه چهار بخش بسیار آموزنده داشت که علامت زدم تا بعداً باز هم بخوانم و دوره کنم.یکی از این بخش ها، جایی است که راجع به شاعرانگی در فیلم و داستان می گوید.
غرور و نخوتی که باعث بی ارزش شدن هنر است.»در نهایت رابرت مک کی می گوید: شیء یا تصویری که می خواهید به عنوان نماد مرکزی داستان خود به کار ببرید، گاه ممکن است بیرونی باشد و گاه درونی.
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend. A superb book that illuminates the purpose of writing stories and the most effective approach to penning tales that transcend the ordinary.
For those of you who don't know anything about Robert McKee, he's the writing teacher you wished you had all those years when you were sitting around listening to some other flaccid asshole mumble nonsense about Freudian tropes and postmodern deconstructionism when all you wanted to know was why the hell you were reading a thirty-page story about a guy counting raindrops on a window.
McKee doesn't claim he can polish a turd into Dune, but he can provide you with a very practical way to examine your own work, and a way to think about your story that puts things in perspective.
A good one.A very useful book.
It took me six months, but I finally, finished this bitch.
The reason it took me six months was that Story is incredibly dense, and in the best possible way.
If you want to understand what makes for a good story, and how and why they work, this is the book to read.
But you'll need to read it slow because this is the kind of dense where you'll want to stop and think about what you just read after every few pages to make sure it really sinks in.Though oriented primarily towards screenwriting, the material is universal enough to address other storytelling mediums as well.In fact, I actually think it covers stagewriting more effectively than a lot of other books I've read about writing for the stage.
Read it.
کتاب واقعاً خوبی بود و لذت بردم... نکتههای خیلی خوبی رو توش بهش اشاره میکنه! برای کسایی که میخوان فیلمنامهنویسی یاد بگیرن و یا فیلمنامه خوب رو از بد تشخیص بدن خوندنش خیلی میتونه مفید باشه!
کتاب واقعاً خوبی بود و لذت بردم... نکته‌های خیلی خوبی رو توش بهش اشاره می‌کنه! برای کسایی که می‌خوان فیلمنامه‌نویسی یاد بگیرن و یا فیلمنامه خوب رو از بد تشخیص بدن خوندنش خیلی می‌تونه مفید باشه!
باه! خیلی خوب بود! با اینکه نوشته ساختار، سبک و اصول فیلمنامهنویسی و همۀ مثالهاش از سینماست، خیلی خیلی به ادبیات و داستان نزدیکه. به اندازۀ یه ترم کلاس آموزنده بود. باید بازم بخونمش، خیلی نیاز دارم بازم بخونمش. یه عالم قلب برات رابرت مککی.
باه! خیلی خوب بود! با اینکه نوشته ساختار، سبک و اصول فیلمنامه‌نویسی و همۀ مثال‌هاش از سینماست، خیلی خیلی به ادبیات و داستان نزدیکه. به اندازۀ یه ترم کلاس آموزنده بود. باید بازم بخونمش، خیلی نیاز دارم بازم بخونمش. یه عالم قلب برات رابرت مک‌کی.
I can't believe it's taken me so long to read this book. I expected more of the same: structure, story elements, character tips. And those are certainly there. But Story actually deserves its tremendously broad title, because that's exactly what this book is: a discussion of *story.* It's theory and practicality all wrapped up into one module. McKee presents ideas I've never seen elsewhere, backed up by solid example after solid example and all in an extremely engaging and absorbing way. This is deep stuff, but McKee makes it thrilling.
From avoiding adverbs and adjectives in your treatment to the psychology of interesting characters this book has many very important things to say to anyone thinking about writing a screenplay (or anything else, if you ask me).The best of this is a quote from Hitchcock about his finishing writing the script for a film and then putting in the dialogue.
Beats is a really interesting way to think about drama and I will use this stuff when teaching.There is also wonderful stuff about writing films from the inside out – that is, get the story right before you get the scenes or dialogue right.
Putting this re-read aside - other priorities - still an excellent book.This is the most useful book in my writing library. I literally read and reread this book until I had absorbed it's messages into the marrow of my bones.An endlessly valuable resource that informs the basic structures both large and small of the stories that I write.Worth reading even if you have no ambition to write for the insights that it will give you into the nature of story and narrative.Written to support the development of screenplays, but also completely adaptable to the Novel.
I'd heard about McKee's "Story" but shied away because screenwriting is so far removed from my usual work.
I bought the digital version on a whim thinking that it might prove useful someday as a reference book.
McKee explains it all with the passion of a true believer who is also an expert..I reveled in his diverse examples of movies that got it right and added some to my "gotta see" list.
I'm a better writer and a more discerning reader because of this book.I bought it thinking that it could be a useful reference for screenwriting specifically.
This is not a book.
This is like a school in a book.
A master's degree.
The amount of notes I took got out of hand, so I decided to just outright buy it, to have it handy.
The best parts are the scene analysis chapters, which are pretty much the same for novel writing and screenwriting.
Seeing a scene broken down into manageable bits has made it clear for me how to rewrite my scenes to make them better.
Because if I can't write excellent scenes, I can't write an excellent book, period.
So glad I have revisited this book.
Robert McKee is the famous Hollywood screenwriting teacher gently poked fun at in the movie "Adaptation." Though that film could leave one with the impression that McKee teaches formula storytelling, this book is about how good stories transcend formula to become great art.
Using examples from famous films, McKee educates us as to why some stories grip us to our toes while others leave us yawning within the first few minutes.
Though written with the screenwriter in mind, this book contains excellent specific and practical guidance on how to craft compelling stories that would be of value to anyone who works in the narrative arts.
Até lá, ele dá preciosos insights — mais do que lições — sobre a construção de histórias.
Entendo a birra que alguns têm com o tom "definitivo" e até formulaico que o McKee assume em algumas partes porque realmente é o tipo de coisa que pode engessar contadores de história mais inseguros ou iniciantes, mas entendo a razão: vender um roteiro pra Hollywood é uma dinâmica muito diferente de qualquer outra e acho que essa irredutibilidade dele vem disso.
No entanto, com o devido alerta de cautela, qualquer romancista pode se valer muito bem da explicação didática e compreensiva que ele dá de muitos elementos importantes às histórias.
He analyzed what makes for an effective story, and McKee has applied that analysis to the most powerful form of storytelling in our own time: motion pictures.But while the book is aimed at screenwriters, the principles apply to all forms of storytelling, including prose fiction.
As far as I'm concerned, if you're serious about telling stories, in whatever medium, you'll get much better results, much faster, if you get this book and apply its principles.
این کتاب نه فقط برای کسانی که میخان فیلمنامه نویسی یاد بگیرن، بلکه به درد همه ادمای دیگه هم میخوره!علتش هم اینه که مقدم بر یادگیری فیلمنامه نویسی، شما باید خودتونو بشناسید و بعد هم زندگی کردن رو یاد بگیرید تا در نهایت بتونید فیلمنامهی خوبی بنویسید.
این کتاب نه فقط برای کسانی که میخان فیلمنامه نویسی یاد بگیرن، بلکه به درد همه ادمای دیگه هم میخوره!علتش هم اینه که مقدم بر یادگیری فیلمنامه نویسی، شما باید خودتونو بشناسید و بعد هم زندگی کردن رو یاد بگیرید تا در نهایت بتونید فیلمنامه‌ی خوبی بنویسید.
In some ways the book is usefull, I think it gives pretty accurate analysis of turning points and different types of screenplays and genres, some other things maybe...
Anyone who wants to do this thing, have to turn something around, break some rule, that will be her vision.
The other truth though is that when you will be talking with your producer he will talk with you in terms of this book and will judge your work according to this book, NOT WANTING your screenplay to follow it at the same time.
This is the text that went along with his three-day seminar that I attended.
Although it is primarily focused on the screenplay, it is equally suitable for a novel, and there were quite a few novelists in attendance at the seminar.
Although the focus is on traditional story structure—something McKee believes has become a lost art—his emphasis is so heavily on character, and writing from the inside out, that if well executed, a reader/viewer would not be consciously aware of the story's structure.
The book is chock full of great techniques for ensuring that a well-told tale is created that evolves entirely out of character.
The book is storehouse of stimulating ideas and techniques.
His seminar was amazing.
It's poorly edited, with too much preaching, and long lists of movie titles cited as examples of a particular point.
Since the style is to use ALL QUOTES for titles, when he goes on for a third of a page it just gets annoying.In his acknowledgements, he thanks someone for their omnivorous will to omit needless words - his wife.
I managed to make it to page 100, then gave up.
I'll put this on my list of books to be tried again later - maybe when I'm in a more patient mood.Right now have too many books, and too little time to waste it on ones that can't hold me.
به عقیده ی من مشخصه ی کتاب های آموزشی/فنی مرجع در گام آهسته ی آن هاست. این کتاب به صورت کامل این اصل را ارضا می کند. مطالب بسیار جزئی و فشرده ی این کتاب هرچند سرعت مطالعه ی آن (مطالعه ی صحیح همراه با یادداشت برداری و درک) را پایین می آورد ولی خواننده را حداقل به یک دید عالی جهت تمییز بین فیلمنامه ی خوب و بد می رساند، حتی اگر نتواند موفق به تولید یکی از آن ها شود.
A classic, but reads a little bit like a dictionary. Don't got through it from cover to cover, but open it when you need a refresher on story structure. Unequaled in depth and understanding of storytelling. If you really want to understand the nuts and bolts of writing narrative fiction, this is your go-to book.
I can understand how this book would be good for potential screenwriters; in fact, that's who this book is for exactly. However, the book does get tedious and has a lot of personal bias involved (a tendency that spills over into McKee's seminar, unfortunately). There is no story in "Story," so unless you are gung-ho about becoming a Hollywood writer, stay away from this one.
این کتاب ساختار هالیوودی سناریونویسی را به خوبی آموزش می دهد . این کتاب مقدس فیلنامه نویسان است .
If you follow these principles, McKee believes, keep them in your mind and be willing to work with them, then you'll be able to produce work that will sell.One of the examples that gets used throughout the book is the idea of the Gap. People who want something, you see, will usually do the minimum required to get that thing.
It's a little thing, it's a very nerdy thing, but it's a thing nonetheless.At various points in the book, in order to illustrate one principle of storytelling or another, McKee uses the scene in The Empire Strikes Back where Vader reveals that he is Luke's father.
Indeed, I don't remember much thing frankly as it took me some three weeks to get through with it and the fact that my reading rounds had been spaced out the way they had, kept the knowledge from sinking in utterly.
One thing I loved about the book is that not only does it illustrate every principle with references but the author goes out of his way to discuss it employing concrete examples from scripts.
Now it's no use for me dashing off a list of things the book gets into, rambling on or waxing lyrical about it.
Un valido manuale per sceneggiatori, più in generale per tutti quelli che vogliono imparare a costruire storie. È diviso in quattro parti: 1. Lo scrittore e l'arte della storia.2. Gli elementi della storia.3. I principi del disegno della storia.4. Lo scrittore al lavoro.Ho apprezzato molto la prima parte, moltissimo la seconda e la terza, un po’ meno la quarta. Però lo consiglio: mi ha dato modo di riflettere. Lo stile è chiaro, i paragrafi sono essenziali.
I'll summarize quickly with five ruless: Rule 1) Open with a scene that pulls the movie-watcher right into the film and forces the watcher to stay glued to his/her seat.
Now, with a great story ready to be written, have a seat and break every single screenwriting rule you've heard about.
Truth is (and you won't find this advice written anywhere) no one in the film-making industry has any interest in reading a screenplay, especially one that follows a bunch of nerdy rules.
That said, this book by McKee is about as good as it gets to get you started.
There is an infinite number of stories to be told, but well-told stories follow a structure that is as old as man, a structure that responds to the expectations, needs and desires of the reader, listener, watcher.
After reading "Story" I now find myself picking apart a plot, whether on page or screen, finding the beauty and the fault in the author's pursuit or denial of classic story elements.
I am about to write my first story after reading 'Story' and I feel I'm entering the page with a tool kit by my side.
I usually race through how-to-write books in a day or two, but this one took me a month because it is so damned good.
And what a month.
I found myself wanting to underline sections and scribble in virtual exclamation points!!!
And I hate exclamation points!!!
Because, well, it's not so much that McKee was telling me anything I hadn't read before in the writing-craft circuit, but dammit, the way he said it, the waaaaaay he said made this storytelling business finally all made sense.
If you write fiction, you should read this.Download my starter library for free here - http://eepurl.com/bFkt0X
If you only ever read one book on writing, this should be it.Even if you're not an author, STORY will deepen your understanding of novels and movies.
What makes a good plot?
What drives character motivations?
How do you deal with audience expectations?Telling stories is one of the most defining characteristics of being a human.
Learns to do it well, and learn how to appreciate it, too.I read a lot about writing, but nothing has ever blown me away like this.
It has everything, and I plan to keep an open copy on my desk at all times.As usual, quotables quotes are below.
Well, this book certainly covered all the topics one would hope for in a book on writing craft. It was a bit on the theoretical/academic side for me. I was looking for something that was more practical. But if you are looking for something theoretical/academic, then you would have your bases covered here. I will keep the book on my shelf, but for use more as a reference text. Still, solidly written throughout and I am happy with the purchase.
