https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/416319.The_False_Principle_of_Our_Education
He thinks that a proper education consists of perpetual self-creation and a process of learning how to be free, how to master one's own will, and how to seamlessly integrate knowledge into action.
It seems to imply a teaching method more centered around individual self exploration and questioning than memorization, "civilizing", practical/technical learning, or even painstaking analytic thought.
A pretty good essay although I'm not sure I understood it all.
For instance, I'm not entirely sure what a Stirnerite school would look like.
Why not write something for practical men once in a while EH??
"knowledge must die and rise again as will and create itself anew each day as a free person", wrote Stirner, finishing the book with this empty and contradicting sentence.
He plays around with conceptions of abstraction and empirical knowledge (promoting the osmosis of the former with the latter) in such a contradicting way, one can only read them as literary devices planned to instigate and appeal.
But it is presented in such a confusing, obscurantist way, that it fails to do the latter.
This book is an empty new age'ish essay, dripped with racist/sexist/anti-semitic remarks.
Only the spirit which understands itself is eternal.[...]Thus the radii of all education run together into one centre which is called personality.
Este libro es una reseña para un periódico (ni más ni menos que la Gaceta Renana, que acabó sus días siendo dirigida por Karl Marx) de un librito de un tal Heinsius, hoy olvidado, pero que fue parte de una legión de pedagogos que, cada uno armado con su idea redentora, se plantearon ilustrar Alemania a principios del XIX.Y en ese contexto debe ser comprendido.
Las aparentes contradicciones de Stirner (que además atravesaba una etapa excepcionalmente hegeliano-ilusionada con la vida, a juzgar por sus opiniones) son en muchas ocasiones chascarrillos difíciles de pillar fuera del contexto de la filosofía y la política alemanas de mediados del siglo industrial, pero antes que actuar en detrimento del estilo, son pequeñas perlas-bomba que Stirner les dejaba a sus combatidos.
This is a philosophical approach on what pedagogy should aim for. Drawing through humanist and realist educations; its goals and faults, Stirner coins the "personalist" concept. This way, men should attach knowledge to their souls and turn it into will, and not anymore as an object to be attained. At last, according to the author, pedagogy should enforce education through exaltation of freedom and not formalistic methods, which only serve to develop practical and resourceful attributes into men.
This pamphlet is interesting in light of Stirner's brief stint as a teacher at a girls' high school. Although the detail of the debate are specific to the Prussian educational system of the time, one of Stirner's central points remains valid: if one wants to educate people to be free individuals, one needs to encourage their recalcitrance and their tendencies to rebel...
The Anarchist Library is such a great source for free lit and stuff
So many simplifications (a very short work anyway), it's difficult to take it very seriously. Two stars may be an overrating.
The False Principle Of Our Education by Max Stirner (2002)
