https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/458142.The_Hundred_Headless_Woman
Here are the pieces: a room, a toilet bowl, a boy named Danny who has one red eye and one green eye, a menacing black-hooded figure and a host of animals: opossum, Tasmanian devil, wallaby, aardvark, baboon, rabbit, mallard, chameleon, bullfrog and snake.The dream consists of the following: Danny walks into a room with a toilet bowl at one end and all those animals, stacked one on top of another like a totem pole at the other.
I then paste the baboon, wallaby, rabbit, aardvark and snake beyond Danny’s grasp and position the toilet bowl at the bottom with a string of other animals – opossum, chameleon, bullfrog and finally the mallard – heading its way.
An utterly inscrutable work of surreal magnificence. A single go through these pages does no justice to the grisly sexual, hauntingly absurd and mindbogglingly arranged artwork, nor the enigmatic yet evocative text that accompanies every image. Give up your notions of narrative at the door, this is a work meant for a lifetime of lingering visits.
Max Ernst's first collage novel and you can feel him straining to create this new language. The illustrations feel more rudimentary and the narrative is less coherent than his later illustrated books, but there are still plenty of jaw-dropping visuals and mind-scrambling missives scattered throughout these pages. Truly, the stuff of dreams.
Another brilliantly strange Max Ernst construction of old pulp novel illustrations and visionary dream-assemblage. Now with "explanatory" captions, this is somehow both more and less intelligible than the other Ernst collage-novel I've read. Either way it's totally inspiring and mysterious.
"The eye without eyes, the hundred headless woman keeps her secret"A collage novel, and plan on finding more like it.Weird surrealism, Dada......A new style of reading that I can't get enough of.

I love this stuff. 'Art is a woman without 100 heads'. Or something like that. Max Ernst was a real wiseguy, and a collage-ist supreme. This book is by turns humorous, fascinating, dreamlike, nightmareish, and beautiful. Incredible.
majestic, dreamlike, and aggressive-at-a-distance. "Semaine de Bonte" is better and easier to acquire.
I really enjoyed this wonderful vintage book of art. I must say I did not understand some of it but what I did, I really enjoyed. I have to say the train art was my favorite and it took me back to a time that I occasionally dream about. I had read many things about this book and how it is considered one of the first graphic novels so it was a must read for me. I would recommend this to everyone who love historical art, firsts and things that make you wonder.
This surrealist 'collage novel' won't be for everyone. BUT if you want a challenge and a 'banquet' as Dorothea Tanning puts it, Pick It Up. I found myself laughing out loud at random juxtapositions, marvelously assembled collages, and the dialogue between text and image. I will read this over and over, I am pretty sure.
A fabulous (in more senses than one) bookMax Ernst's surrealist masterpiece is dazzling, enticing, seductive and frustrating all at once. The no-story of a text and the bizarre illustrations combine to make a work of art that can be approached in many different ways so that the reader/viewer is invited, even forced, to become an active participant. Highly recommended.
Exactly what I expected!Wow, something only a mind as brilliant and warped as max ernst could produce a work so stunning. Totally worth the price.
