https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/185920.Bad_Love
Another case of a multi-layered conspiracy for the powerful to take advantage of youth, in which Alex and Milo discover and bring to justice.
Unfortunately, not before Alex and Robin's house is burnt down in retaliation.
So my question is- why does the doctor continue to see patients in his home?
Because of his involvement in sensitive cases, often with fragile or temperamental people, I would think he should rent an office for he has plenty of money.
But then the author couldn't wax poetic about the beauty of the doctor's home, his elaborate meals and his koi pond.
I liked the introduction and characterization of the French bull dog, Spike.
Parallel storylines work in Kellerman’s books only when the two plots are interrelated.
When they don’t have anything to do with each other, the minor plot feels obstructionistic, more like one is being used to pad the work.
Admittedly, homelessness is an issue worth tackling, but it didn’t advance the story, not one iota, and should have been filed for a future novel emphasizing homelessness.Kellerman had to work hard to weave all his loose threads together in this one, and I didn’t find the ending convincing.
This is one of the better ones of these I've read in a while. And the events of this one affect the plots of many of the books that come after it.
I' m really liking his work!I love the device of seeing criminal investigation through the eyes of a child psychologist, Alex Delaware.
Delaware is now in private practice, but does a certain amount of consulting with the justice system, evaluating child custody situations, etc., which is his nexus to crime.In this book, "bad love" has two meanings.
No wonder that when his "graduates" reach adulthood, some are very damaged -- one to the point that he undertakes to kill all the school's former faculty and key supporters.
In this one, Alex Delaware receives a tape in the mail with a horrific scream on it, and then a child’s robotic voice repeating: “bad love, bad love, don’t give me that bad love.” Alex is horrified by the tape which comes in a plain envelope with no identifying names, addresses or even fingerprints, but he then remembers that back in 1979 he was involved in a conference which he co-chaired, unwillingly, including in its title, the words “bad love”.
It involved the theories of a particular psychologist about children receiving “bad love” and growing up to be criminals.
In his efforts to discover who sent the tape and what these words mean, Delaware soon suspects he is being stalked by a psychopath and, with the help of his friend LAPD detective Milo Sturgis, works to discover who it is and why.
The path to the truth has many unexpected twists and turns with a deadly ending.For those reading through the Delaware/Sturgis series: This book introduces Alex and Robin's new dog - a french bulldog.
And, to my amazement, this may be the only Kellerman book I've read in which Delaware girlfriend, Robin, is the
I'd have given it five stars except for one plot device that ultimately was all wrong - the tape of screaming that Delaware is sent at the beginning of the book.
As the plot knits together chapter by chapter - did I mention how awesome this story is?
- I realized by the very exciting, adrenalin drenched, action ending that this beginning is the single wrong note for how this murderer would have begun his contact with the good doctor.
In each book he never shies away from speaking truth, even if the plot or writing sometimes does not quite live up to his ideals.
I never really am a fan of mystery/thriller novels.
Because if you add - even a bit - of psychology in it, then, I will love it!
And I must say, that the psychological aspect here is surprisingly great.
And psychology isn't really the focus here, so...
XD Anyhow, this is a great read for the mind.
Like all mystery novels, this will make you think of who the perpetrator is.
(I'm so great!) I had fun reading it; and it's good exercise for one's deduction skills.
I recommend this for all mystery/thriller lovers out there.
I love Alex Delaware novels...
he's a fantastic character and having him show up in different novels helps to create a real three-dimensional feeling of who he is.
Finding out what "bad love" meant made me cringe.
"Doctors" like De Bosch are never out to actually help anyone--only fatten their wallets.
De Bosch had a certain "cult-y" feel about him; very nice and charming in public, very real and unkind in private.
I was very surprised when the identity of the "Bad Love" killer; I wasn't even in the area of being correct in guessing who it was.
If you love the earlier classic Alex Delaware novels, this one is another good mystery from Jonathan Kellerman.
It started with a child's voice on a tape, mentioning about "bad love." That sends Alex on a journey all over California, searching for answers, while he works on another deposition for another case, when it gets heated up.
We watch when Alex discovers the connection between the symposium and the murders that happened over the years.
We're on for a wild ride, when they connect the dots in a strange line of "suspicious deaths", which it wasn't as it appears.
It is hard to pinpoint which part of this book is good enough except for the adorable dog.
In addition, a total lack of intensity of adrenaline rush effects and a slow-paced storyline made me put away this book for quite a number of times.
Furthermore, I think that the characters in this story are poorly developed and the funny thing is, when the real villain is revealed at the end of the book, I was like "who's he??".
All in all, as a thriller this book is a failure but I really like Spike the dog.
This was the reason I hang around our college library during free time. Since hardcover books can't be brought home, I remember always hiding this book in an open-shelves area that's not frequently visited by students, so no one gets hold of it while I'm still reading ^_^One of the best psychological suspense books I've read with intricately woven plots. I feel some bad love for licorice sticks.
This one will keep you on edge. A madman has Alex in his sights, forcing Alex and Robin to move from their home. As Alex and Milo get closer to the killer they discover a series of murders that span years. This killer has been patient in his revenge, but he's excalating and now Alex fears for Robin's safety and his own life. Great read! Loveable Spike enters Alex and Robin's life, and this is the book where their home is burnt to the ground.
This one escalates the in-your-face suspense and bloodshed. There is more wanton death and destruction in this book and in any previous installment. Delaware and Sturgis are quickly becoming my newest favorite crime solving duo. Also, this is the first book where I really cared for Robin's character. Time to pick "Self-Defense".
A very competently written book in the series. Kellerman can usually be counted on to produce a good, readable mystery and this is no exception. Good plotline with a convoluted backstory that held my interest. Also, as a dog owner, I particularly like this one as the French Bulldog who becomes a member of the Alex Delaware story is introduced in this book.
I just love all his books & the growth of the characters. Alex & Milo never get boring & they grow. I wish they would make a movie so the picturenI have in my head of how they look compared to say how the author or whomever sees them. This was so eery because of that tape... suspenseful, never boring.
Jonathan Kellerman's Alex Delaware novels are always so engrossing, they keep you reading late into the night. This one had a bit of a twist, with Delaware tracking down a psychopath so he himself doesn't become the next victim.
Incredibly boring. I was pretty much only interested in the Frenchie. Not enough Milo, too much Alex just hanging around with Robin. It's sad when you only continue with a series because of a supporting character and (generally) interesting crimes.
Jonathan Kellerman has never disappointed me, and this was no exception! What a great story, and how he keep coming up with so plots is beyond me, but he does wonderful work. Another page-turner! Loved it!
What a crappy book. It tries too hard to be everything to everyone, which results in it being nothing.
Took me awhile to figure the Bad Love angle out----great novel
Bad writing...bad plot...bad characters...except for the dog.
first Alex Delerware book I read. been hooked ever since.chilling novel that's been in my head since I read it.
Good when he sticks to Alex Delaware being a child psychologist. Even better when he leaves that awful Robin and her annoying guitars and bulldog? (Some sort of dog) out of it.
didn not finish not worth finishing. read half way
Even though I started it in HS, I couldn't get through it; boring
Very good. I liked the part where Alex sent Robin off to stay with Rick and Milo until the issues from the previous case got resolved.
Great book...very suspenseful and also a heartwrencher. Characters we've already gotten to know as well as the introduction of Spike. Don't miss this one!
i absolutely loved this book and one saying in this book will forever be in your head stuck and replaying lol
