https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14481.Come_Back_Amelia_Bedelia
Amelia Bedelia, whose life is a daily list of failures in her duties as a maid, is fired and sent away to seek other employment.
As usual, the Rogers are ruled by their appetites, and they take her back, to repeat the cycle of failure and disparagement.
To the readers, it is obvious that Amelia Bedelia would be a wild success as a pastry chef.
But Bedelia, mired in her failures and internalizing the Rogers’ perception of her as an incompetent domestic with a single redeeming skill, can never reach fulfillment because she cannot even imagine it.
She dooms herself to be nothing more than the Rogers’ exasperating maid.
Mrs. Rogers fires Amelia Bedelia for giving her coffee with her cereal! (She might have phrased it a little differently since she *was* talking to Amelia Bedelia). What is Amelia Bedelia to do? She goes around town applying at various jobs, working her old delightful antics of course!Reading Level: 1st - 3rd gradesCleanliness: a girl sticks out her tongue at an adult and someone says "my goodness."
A an easy read for children in the second and third grade. Amelia Bedelia is in search of a new job but she has trouble following directions. This book can be used to show children the importance of thinking before you act and in following directions correctly.
These books are adorable and a great way to discuss language and meaning with kids. :D They have the benefit of being pretty funny, too! Definitely classics in my opinion, I hope that libraries still carry them.
I think Amelia Bedelia has try hard in works. She always want the master satisfied what she was doing.
One of the best Amelia Bedelia books.
I really enjoyed this one, the mischief Amelia gets into is ridiculous and expensive.
It is funny how much Mrs. Rogers has changed over the years.
This book is my favorite style of Amelia Bedelia.
I have to admit to never really 'getting' Amelia Bedelia.
Obviously, it's not funny to laugh at her if there's something developmentally wrong with her, so, I'm assuming she's supposed to be the former?
It probably makes more sense to have her be a child like she is in the newest books.
This book is about a girl named Amelia Bedelia.
She takes everything literally and gets in trouble for it.
She looks for new jobs but does exactly what everyone tells her to.
I thought it was funny how Amelia Bedelia does exactly what everyone asks her to but never understands why people get so mad.
I think this would be a fun book for kids to read.
This book could be used as a lesson of figuring out when others are being literal with their words and when they are not.
Also might talk about getting a job or jobs.
Amelia Bedelia is quite a funny character.
Her literal interpretation of her demands create some funny scenes.
In this Amelia Bedelia, Amelia is working in a home and is asked to leave because the master has had enough.
So she goes looking for a job.
After a few of these attempts, she remembers that her rolls are in the oven and she goes on back home.
(I'll leave the rest for one to read on their own.) This book is a comedy book and is meant for primary grade levels.
I would use this as a read aloud story in my classroom.
Rating childhood reads strictly by my memory of how much I enjoyed them at first read. Obviously that could be drastically different if I read them today. (Then again, some of them might just hold up pretty well.)
The Amelia Bedelia books are great contemporary realistic fiction books for grades K-2. Come Back, Amelia Bedelia is hilarious and very enjoyable to read. Even though it is a lower level book, I think children of all ages would love to hear the funny story.
I’m desperately reaching for the simple stories of my childhood that taught me about metaphorical speech with humor. I think it all began with Amelia Bedelia.
Amelia Bedelia is funny and she's always confused.
Reread via audiobook and god do I love these books!
Amelia still totes a hard Queen Liz style purse, proper maid outfit - white collar, cuffs, bow, and apron bows bedeck black tights and dress.
Shock of red bangs peep from yellow flowers on black up-brim hat.
Stout Mrs Rogers has prim gray curls, greedy double chin, pearls, presides over double-decker suburban splendor, and demands cereal with her coffee this morning, just after Amelia pulls cream puffs from the oven.
At the beauty shop, she pins hair.
(view spoiler)[ At an office, she stamps letters, files papers.
Mrs Rogers sniffs the kitchen "That smells good" p 59, begs Amelia to "Please come back" p 60.
The woman thought the breakfast was terrible and told Amelia Bedelia she must go!
She was doing a horrible job and the beauty shop owner told her to leave.
She continued down the road when she came to a dress shop that was looking for help.
Amelia Bedelia thought it would be much easier to cut the dresses to shorten them rather than to sew them.
Further down the road she came to an office that needed a file clerk.
On down the road she came to a doctors office.
When the doctor asked for help Amelia Bedelia kept misunderstanding.
Most of her time is spent with the Rogers, a very wealthy family who doesn’t catch on the how literate Amelia is.
In this particular book, Amelia goes out in search for a job.
If white isn’t used for the background, the illustrator uses light colors such as blue and cream to substitute some character into the scene.
This book is great for children growing up, showing them that even if misunderstood mistakes are made, they should always be able to take responsibility.
With the responsibilities this book shows the greatness in laughing at some silly mistakes and not taking life to seriously.
Come Back, Amelia Bedelia by Peggy Parish was one of my favorite books as a child and I am so glad that I found it again to read!
I like this book because there is action on each page accompanied with relatable pictures, making it a much more interesting read for first through second graders.
It adds to the book and makes it more interesting because you can be able to pick out what you think she is told and what she actually does, maybe a way for kids to get involved in the book themselves.
Loved these as a child, and still the different parts come to mind for no reason, like 'drawing the drapes,' and 'dusting the furniture.' So when I re-discovered them with my daughter, was delighted.
(Of course, 99.99 44/100 kids don't get that flavor, but still.)P.S. this represents the series again, but in this case this is the one I read with my daughter, I'm pretty sure.Ok, found some history on it:"The name "Bedelia" is a derivation of the common Irish name Bridget.
This might have influenced Amelia Bedelia." http://www.300books.info/Amelia_Bedel...So, yeah, just like anything else, if this was in isolation, it would be one thing.
It helped me not only strengthen my reading skills but gain a love for reading stories that included humor and detailed illustrations.
This book uses simple words, nothing too complex, and uses fun and detailed pictures that help tell the story of Amelia getting into things she shouldn't be.
I think this book, and the rest in the series, is a GREAT tool to use for early readers.
It gets them involved in books and reading at an early age, which can further and strengthen a love for reading in students for later in life.
Growing up I think that feeling started with Amelia Bedelia.
I think I’ve spent my life in fear of people like Amelia Bedelia (you know they’re out there).
However I know tons of people that grew up tickled to death by her and I find her much easier to read now.
As she takes the world by storm in her quite literal way you can’t help but feel a little bad for both her and those in her path.
(In some ways her very literal thinking makes me think of the character Dr. Temperance Brennan from the TV show Bones and her ignorance of the assumed knowledge of our society.)
"What is this?" "It is your cereal with coffee."...and of course Amelia mixes the coffee IN the cereal.
However, Mr. and Mrs. Rogers have had it with Amelia taking all of their instructions literally and fire her.
Nonetheless, Amelia searches all over town at the beauty parlor, the dress shop, the office (where she was asked to file some papers and she actually took a nail file and filed the paper into shreds ...oh Amelia!), the doctor's office, etc.
Just as the day drew to a close, Amelia realized she left her cream puffs at the Rogers household and went back, at which time the Rogers admitted how much they missed her---probably for her delicious pies!
The stories are rather funny, and I found myself laughing all the way through this one.
In this story, Amelia is doing exactly what she is told, so that is why she can't keep a job.
Kids would really enjoy this because it is something silly for them to read, but it is also slightly longer and more like a chapter book than traditional picture books.
This certain title would also send the lesson to kids that if they don't understand the directions, they should ask someone instead of just doing what they think.
Amelia Bedelia is always getting herself into trouble.
She starts out as a maid and then gets fired.
The rest of the story brings the reader through all of her mishappen jobs that she tries out throughout her day.
At the end of the day she is feeling sad and lonely so she goes back to the family she was a maid for just to finish the desserts she had begun in the morning.
The family takes her back in and she is so happy, and not minutes later she begins messing everything up again.
(Which is fine.) I would recommend this for new readers grades K-2.
I loved the Amelia Bedilia books.
I've never laughed so hard while reading a book to my daughter.You know how when you read aloud and your eyes read ahead of what is actually coming out of your mouth, well half the time I was laughing so hard about something before I managed to read it out loud to my daughter.
She kept giving me weird looks until I finally managed to read it to her.
It's been quite a few years since I've read the books but I loved every Amelia Bedilia book and plan on getting ahold of them again soon so I can read them to my grand daughter.All the Amelia Bedilia books are highly recommended.
I loved loved loved Amelia Bedelia as a little girl, but I haven't read any AB books in a long, long time. Who doesn't love Amelia Bedelia? She is so happy and tries so hard and does everything she's told. Literally. Hilarious and endearing, Amelia Bedelia is fired from her housekeeping job and sets off to find other work. She finds lots of jobs but none that want to keep her. Amelia doesn't understand hwy--she does everything they ask her to. But maybe there is one job that's just about perfect for Amelia.
I love all the Amelia Bedelia books, I think they are just those type of books with humor that will always make people laugh no matter what age.
I love the humor in this book.
When I was younger and I would read this book I would always feel so bad for her because all she would do is try and help people, and every time she would always make thing worse, because she took everything that people said literal.
I think this book is a great easy read for second ad third graders, and also I think the would really enjoy the book too.
Parrish, Peggy. Come Back, Amelia Bedelia. (1971)Annotation: Amelia Bedelia loses her job at the Rogers's house, so she goes to town to look for another job. Every job that she tries in town, she mess up and so they all fire her. Then Amelia remembers that she forgot her cream puffs back at the Rogers's house. When she returns, Mrs. Rogers ask her to stay and apologizes for being mad.Themes:following directions, forgiveness, making mistakesWays to use with children: You can use this book to talk about what each boss meant for Amelia to do, study idiomsRecommended ages:6- 14
What a blast from the past! I asked our daughter to start choosing "new" books at her school library, instead of her usual animal/girlie pink choices. She came home one day saying she saw this really old book, and when she attempted to say the title, I knew exactly what she was talking about! I said, "Bring it home!" Super exciting to share a book with our daughter that I enjoyed immensely as a child. I believe I read all in the series, and would definitely recommend for some silly fun!
Poor Amelia Bedelia. She can never get her orders right. She's done it again. This time it was putting coffee in Mrs' Roger's cereal. Now she's off to find a new job. Join Amelia Bedelia on her search for a new job; one that she won't create such a mess at. This easy-readers will bring lots of laughter from your child, and will help them learn the difference between literal and figurative commands and demands, something Amelia has a hard time with too!
Like all the Amelia Bedelia books, this is just plain, silly fun. This one was printed in 1971, and it shows its age a little more than most. AB goes looking for work, and sees a "Lady Wanted" sign in a window. But it doesn't really detract from the the fun of reading about the hilarious things that happen when AB takes things literally, as when she serves "coffee with cereal," or "files" some papers.
