https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/194006.Legacy
4.5 starsIs there any better novel of Queen Elizabeth I?
Originally published in 1985, this novel is probably still one of the very best works of fiction written about the illustrious virgin queen (?) who reigned for 45 years.
It is Elizabeth’s sparkling performance and witty repartee that make this novel shine.
But there are also moments to reflect on sacrifices she may have made.The novel has an enormous cast as it covers Elizabeth’s entire life span of 69 years.
The only thing I've ever seen come close to capturing Elizabeth so clearly and brilliantly is the old Masterpiece Theatre series on PBS done back in 70's or 80's with Glenda Jackson.
All the charaterizations in the book are incredibly well drawn and detailed, particulary Elizabeth, Dudley and Cecil.
The author also has a wonderful way of describing the times, the scenes, the clothes, etc.
The author's opinions on Elizabeth's virginity (or lack thereof) and as to who killed Amy Dudley are very intriguing.
With the resurgence in popularity of historical fiction and all things English, I can't imagine how this incredible book can be out of print.
I borrowed it from the library, lost myself in the dangerous and glittering world of court intrigue and politics, and read it in a little over two sittings.
In that hectic time, I returned the book to the library almost as soon as I finished it, and promptly forgot the title and author name!
But the story stayed with me for years, and for almost a decade I tried to find the book again by just what I remembered about the book--it was a very detailed and introspective book on Queen Elizabeth, one of history's greatest monarchs.
Actual rating 4.5 stars.Well-written historical novel about Elizabeth I (why did Susan Kay write only two novels?), with some paranormal undertones.
Kay’s presentation is unique, as “Legacy” flip-flops between telling the story though the eyes of various characters and thus allowing for both Elizabeth’s views and of those who came into contact with her.
Many of the events/elements are not discussed in deep detail which can satisfy those readers familiar with the Tudors seeking a moving story line and less detail; or it can a negative to those newer readers who want a fuller view.
Similarly, Kay smoothly and seamlessly incorporates well-known quotes into the dialogue of “Legacy”, which fit into the character conversations while adding depth but again: are historically accurate.
Now that I’ve finished, I’m glad to confirm that it is firmly placed in such a place.I don’t know if I’ll ever read any other novel set in this time period, but in any case I have this feeling that Legacy has forever altered my expectation of Tudor historical novels—that is to say, has ruined me forever for any other such novel—because if I didn’t have great expectations about them before thanks mostly to the extant books, now I am going to have impossibly high standards for them.
I am going to expect them to have the quality set up by Kay’s novel, which admittedly will be hard to equal.I’ve never made a secret of my indifference towards this dynasty as a whole, and Elizabeth wasn’t an exception.
3.75 Stars.
The author didn't make Elizabeth out to be the perfect heroine, like most HF authors do today, which was a positive.
The story is seen through the eyes of the men in her life, letting you see all sides of Elizabeth.
I didn't agree with some of the author's story telling, but, hey it's fiction, I know.
I do recommend this for readers who want to know more about Elizabeth.
This covers her whole life and due to that the author keeps it light and it isn't weighed down.
It's a cradle-to-grave retelling of the life of Elizabeth I, and it's 647 pages of class.The prologue introduces Elizabeth as a troubled young princess, imprisoned in the Tower of London by her sister Mary and facing possible execution as a traitor:She sat on a low stone window-seat, wrapped in a cloak against the creeping cold and, like the solitary stone pillar that supported the roof, she might have been carved in that pose out of stone.
Through Traitor's Gate she had come to this 'very narrow place', a grim fortress which had swallowed up so many lives - one of them, her mother's.The story then backtracks to the meeting of Henry VIII and Anne Boleyn, and follows Elizabeth through her turbulent childhood.
The history is comprehensive, the characterizations of the historical figures are vivid and realistic, the insight and motivations Kay offers for them are interesting and each character is realistic, three dimensional and matures over time.
There are certain books that will stick in your mind as THE definitive authority on a particular historical figure, Sharon Kay Penman's novelization of Richard III's life, 'The Sunne In Splendour' is one example.
I think this will be the quintessential 'Queen Elizabeth' book in my mind from now on.
But after reading this novel I really felt for him, Kay paints a heartbreaking story of an impossible relationship between Robin and Elizabeth.
Perhaps my disregard comes from a long dislike of the entire Tudor dynasty, and helped along by a lot of bad movies and even worse books.And then this book, heavy and uncomfortable to hold in my arthritic hands, begins with a scene featuring an omniscient point of view--the narrator was apparently crouched somewhere up on a ceiling beam, metaphorically speaking--and goes on about a rat.
I actually liked Elizabeth, who here was neither a shrilly jealous woman, a Mary Sue with whom everyone was a little in love, a crafty, cold woman who would anything to keep her well-padded posterior on the throne, nor a 16th-century wonder woman centuries ahead of her time.
A book that I was very happy to see come back into print last year. Smart, well-written account of Queen Elizabeth I from the cradle to the grave, and the various personalities, plots and achievements in her life. I think this one is my favourite of all the various fictional accounts of Elizabeth, both because of the dialog, which is very believable, the characters, whom the author does not short, and Elizabeth herself, depicted with her jealousy, temper tantrums and ability to connive intact. A must read for lovers of Tudor fiction. For the longer review, please go here:http://www.bubblews.com/news/8023322-...
Having read Margaret George’s Elizabeth last year, I was impressed with the quality of writing and the vivid detail in which Elizabeth and her times were rendered, but I couldn’t help feeling a tiny bit disappointed that the novel only covered the autumn and winter of Elizabeth’s life, from the 1588 armada onwards.
George’s novel fresh in my mind, I was particularly aware of what Kay left out from Elizabeth’s later years, and found myself missing what was omitted.Legacy was well-written, the dialogue in particular was sharp and in character, although I always felt that her Elizabeth, whilst close, wasn’t exactly the real deal.
For me this book did a remarkable job of telling the story of Queen Elizabeth's life, it was well written, intriguing and the author kept the story moving.
This book is broken down into five different areas of Elizabeth's life, The Girl, The Woman, The Queen, The Goddess and The Effigy.
What I took away from reading this book was: how strong and intelligent Elizabeth was, she spoke six different languages and was more intelligent than most men of her time.
I'm glad I've had the experience of reading this book and learning more about England's most passionate queen.
Once she secured the crown after surviving her sister's Mary's reign by the skin of her teeth, Elizabeth put the welfare of her subjects first.
Like a mother, she was willing to lie, cheat and even execute (something she always hated to even think about) to secure the welfare of her country.
Only Robert Dudley enjoyed her favor most of his life.Although this book is fiction, Elizabeth is portrayed as a complex and haunted woman.Men certainly found her very attractive and she had female friends who were very close to her, Nevertheless the Sun that ruled England for two score years and five left behind a peaceful, solvent country.
This is an excellent novel by Susan Kay depicting the life of Elizabeth from early childhood, with a precarious struggle through adolescence, her sister Mary's suspicions of disloyalty, her imprisonment in the Tower through Traitor's Gate from which few, very few ever emerged from alive until finally, she reaches, against all odds, the throne of England.
It's a very long historical novel; on my Kindle with the type set at #4 setting (Kindle's way of electronic pagination) the total number of locations is 15,629.
Susan Kay won two prestigious awards for this novel and it is totally enjoyable and well worth your time.
Outstanding.
This is probably the most intelligently written novel I've read of Elizabeth I.
Meticulously researched, Kay's character version of Elizabeth is nothing short of a psychological analysis.
Kay adds her own fictional elements to further allow the reader a deep dive into Elizabeth's soul, giving an imagined makeup of her persona.
The Elizabeth we see in this novel is a cunning survivor, forever depending on her fierce intellect to remain alive for three reigns before finally inheriting the crown.
Not only are Kay's characters richly constructed, her prose is simply beautiful, clever and imaginative.
I had the pleasure of reading this novel when it came out in the 80's, and the book has stood the test of time. A beautiful novel, and a beautiful portrait of Elizabeth I. This novel is the definitive version of Elizabeth for me.
And yet there was an utter immobility which lulled him, drawing him ever closer in the faint, hungry hope that he might have been mistaken."She sat on a low stone window-seat, wrapped in a cloak against the creeping cold and, like the solitary stone pillar that supported the roof, she might have been carved in that pose out of stone.
She sat staring out of the window into the courtyard below, straining her eyes to see the yawning cavern that was the Tower's main gateway."The gate was her lodestone.
And that's what makes men such interesting pets, Markham--you never know when they're going to turn and bite.'" ***
This book explores the life of Elizabeth I, focusing, according to the summary, on her relationships with three key men in her life (Thomas Seymour, Robert Dudley, William Cecil).
Or was it Dudley, Cecil and Essex?
Let's just say that there were more than "three men whose destinies belonged to her alone."The first third of the book, about her childhood and ascension to the throne, were very interesting.
Once she actually gained the crown, however, the book took a turn for the boring.
There wasn't much news here.
And what was news, I suspect was fiction.
I like her less after reading this.It took me three weeks to read this book.
Well-researched, very engaging look at Elizabeth I.
The author took 10 years to write it and yet somehow resisted the urge to drown the reader in detailed descriptions of the era.
Something I've no doubt I could not have resisted, & actually wished for more of.
Several times you have the rather eerie feeling you're looking out from behind Elizabeth's eyes and feeling her rather frighteningly brilliant political brain maneuver.
The question we all want answered: Well, did they or didn't they....?!
The answer is Yes....eventually.
Very eventually.
Rating: 3.5 stars Review to follow.Buddy read with Jemidar, Rio, Orsolya, Tom, Lynn and Jackleen :-)
The best book on Elizabeth`s story, highly recommended to everyone.
The best book on Elizabeth`s story, highly recommended to everyone.
The first sentence was, "He was a small rat, but bolder than most, with a disproportionately long tail which curled behind him on the stone floor, losing itself in the half-gloom of a solitary candle's light." The prologue of the book went onto to focus upon the girl, Elizabeth Tudor, who is sitting in the Tower of London, waiting for the moment her sister, the queen, signs her death warrant.This book is a page-turner, impossible to put down, treats historical figures as psychologicaly complex characters rather than paper cutouts reenacting documented history, and makes history live and breathe.
It presented Elizabeth as the brilliant and complicated woman she likely was, and did a good job of portraying the constant political maneuvering and backstabbing in her court, but it did so in a very dull, repetitive, and sometimes confusing way, and I suspect took a little too much artistic license at times.
I don't care whether she was really a virgin queen, and we will never know the truth about this anyway, so I feel we should instead focus on the brilliant accomplishments of this woman at a time when women just didn't have opportunities to have brilliant accomplishments.
Source: Self-purchase.Rating: 5 stars for excellent.Summary:Legacy is a historical fiction account of the life of Elizabeth I.
A strong-willed and defiant personality, a passionate person, a desire to love and be loved, shrewd and resilient, savvy and intelligent.Elizabeth's relationships are a heavy element in Legacy.
The work is historical fiction, and the fictional account of her love life is it's strongest point.My Thoughts:From the start, I was drawn into the first scene with Elizabeth and an enormous large rat.
Elizabeth's personality and the experiences she lived through carved a dominant person.
Internal struggles in the characters lives.A realistic creation of Elizabeth.
Highly recommended life of Elizabeth, far better than most historical fiction.
I've had my copy for years and have read it countless times.
For example, it suggests that Elizabeth deliberately put the catastrophic Darnley onto Mary's path, confident she'd fall for him and that he would prove enough of a problem to prevent Mary having time to covet Elizabeth's throne.
It also suggests a solution to the mystery of Amy Robsart's death which I think is highly convincing.
As so often is done to Norfolk and others, they are assumed to exist solely as one-dimensional characters with no private life.
This book was interesting enough, but one aspect that I strongly reject was that the degree of fictitious content was not made clear.
But we are dealing here with a significant historical character, and I find it alarming to claim, without any information for the reader about the ficticiousness of the matter, that Elizabeth I.
had a history of love affairs for which there is no historical evidence, and which is a matter of academic debate.
The book is more fiction than biography, and this should be made clear from the beginning.
When you know that this book was 15 years in the making, it comes as no surprise that author Susan Kay's meticulous research paid off.Kay presents the mercurial Elizabeth I, starting with the day of her mother's execution and ending with her death.
The queen was politically shrewd, as we know from history books, but Kay presents a woman terrified of marriage because of her mother's (and stepmothers') deaths at the hands of her father -- and yet one who craves love.
There are numerous history lessons found within the pages, disguised as brilliant entertainment.Those who are interested in Tudor history will not be able to help enjoying this book.
Decent--well, all in all probably the best novel of Elizabeth I've ever read, which is not precisely a ringing endorsement--but oh, man, it felt miles too long.
And the dynamic between Bess and Leicester was a bit off.
Splendid in bits and pieces, and Lord knows I teared up at the epilogue (shut up, they've always made me sentimental), but the rapeyness was foul and unnecessary and I have no idea what possessed Kay to go there.
Still gets three stars for making me read six hundred pages plus in a single sitting.
Even if my eyes are now burnt out of my skull.
I read this because it has been my best friend's favorite book for as long as I can recall.
I am a fan of Susan Kay's.
I read Phantom years and years ago and was in love with the detail and thought put into it.
This book is no less detailed and thoughtful.
I am impressed with her way of taking several points of view and weaving them seamlessly together into a single narrative that is so fully fleshed out, I am unable to think of a single thing left out our missing that would make it more complete.
This book is whole, and wholly satisfying; much like finishing a good meal.
