https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5632446-columbine
I wrote the book, so I'll forego rating it, just thought it should show up my list so you would find me. (But I'm new to goodreads, so tell me if I'm going about it all wrong.) Thanks.
Meticulously, he explains how everything we thought we knew about the violence that day -- you probably remember: outcasts targeting jocks, the Trench Coat Mafia, Marilyn Manson -- is totally wrong, the truth a victim of a media whirlwind that descended upon the tragedy, picked up garbled rumors and incorrect assumptions and flung them onto TVs and broadsheets across the country.
Dave Cullen sorts through all the mountains of evidence and discovers that Columbine wasn’t – actually – a school shooting, it was a bombing which went wrong.
After half an hour of aimlessness, some potshots at the police outside, perhaps the real point of the whole thing was reached, and both of them blew their brains out.And in their minds, that was : Cool.When the shooting began the police made a number of assumptions and a lot of mistakes, some of which they can’t be blamed for – the mayhem and the students’ accounts as they fled made it seem like there was a whole team of gunmen inside the school.
Dave Cullen demonstrates conclusively that almost everything we thought we knew about Columbine was wrong: 1) the shooters weren't particular objects of bullying, obvious misfits, members of "the trench coat mafia" or Marilyn Manson fans, 2)the shooters didn't target jocks or minorities (they hated a lot of things, including Country Music, Puff Daddy and the WB network, and originally intended on blowing up the entire school, and would have, expect for the fact that the bombs fizzled), 3) the shooters weren't a couple of psychopaths, but one psychopath and one depressive, and 4) Fundamentalist Christian "martyr" Cassie Bernall never said "yes" to Jesus (it was another girl under another library table, and she was arbitrarily spared).
I’ve seen too many people like them do horrible things because they couldn’t control their anger.
Most people have had some pretty bad things happen to them.
They don’t go around shooting people.
So exactly who is the bully here?To quote Angela Chase, “My parents keep asking 'How was school?' it's like saying 'How was that drive-by shooting?' You don't care how it was, you're lucky to get out alive." Physical, emotional and verbal violence is a big issue in our schools.
It's cheesy, but as anyone who has lived through a natural disaster/abuse/attack/war will tell you,' the loving world was there all the time.'Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold weren't sad bullied children.
There is absolutely no excuse for violently taking another persons life.
What sets "Columbine" apart from all of the investigative reporting done during the aftermath of perhaps the most notorious school shooting in US history is Dave Cullen's skillful ability to cut through the mythology and hysteria surrounding the entire event.
We became riveted with what Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold unleashed upon Columbine on April 20, 1999; Cullen reminds us that it's the "who" and the "why" of this event that gave it the gravity it deserved."Columbine" is recommended ready for everyone.
Cullen has pulled together all available info, and tells the story of the two boys who perpetrated this crime, how they came to their decision to act, how they went about gathering their deadly materials, how they planned their actions, and how they leaked enough information about their plans that anyone paying attention should have seen what was coming.
Cullen tells of court cases that continued for years, of victims who courageously worked themselves back from catastrophic injury, of those who were never able to recover, and of some who nurtured their rage for years.
As the book gets into the details of the massacre (before, during, and after), it is going to be a difficult book for many.
But, the depth which the author explores this event is very important in order to clear up all of the details and set the record straight.
He has me paranoid!This was the first time I have ever heard or read in depth the details following the event.
You will be amazed at how much life in this suburban Colorado town sounds like any town and the kids (both victims and killers) are just like many teenagers you might know.
How do you know?A very captivating book.
Nevertheless, "Columbine" moves at a brick pace and remains interesting and captivating throughout the whole text.I have significant problem with the author's thesis, which essentially boils down to this: Eric Harris was a psychopath - and killed people; and Dylan Klebold has been his accomplice because he was depressive and thought about ending his own life.
You added to the rage." During the library massacre, Dylan is said to have suggested that knifing people might be more fun than shooting them.Brooks Brown, who was a friend of both boys recalls one of the incidents of bullying, where both Eric and Dylan have been picked on in the cafeteria.
Cullen pulls the reader in to explore not only the event that took place in a small Colorado community in April 1999, but also the vast array of sentiments surrounding this shooting, both before and afterwards.
The book throughly examines all three time periods, though not in a clear division, allowing the reader to learn much about Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold, who have long been deemed evil personified.
It is the event that needs a face, a life, and a death, which Cullen offers up and allows the reader to dissect at will.
Dave Cullen, who has written extensively for Salon (one of my favorite procrastination tools) has been following the Columbine massacre from the beginning to the present-day.
While every talking-head jabbered about bullies, jocks-as-targets, Cassie the Martyr, and violent video games, Cullen was steadily debunking each of these myths with a time honored journalistic tool called "actually discovering the facts." The result of Cullen's 10 years of research and writing is Columbine, an insightful, clear-eyed, at times graphic, at times infuriating book.
Dave Cullen makes a great attempt to answer the questions we never asked.
If your only exposure to Columbine was watching it unfold live on tv, and then maybe reading a few magazine articles, you will probably rate this book five stars.But if you've spent years studying Columbine and other school shootings, if you've read the 12,000+ documents available online (including the witness interviews and the the shooters' journals) you be able to understand how Cullen seems to be deliberately twisting the truth in order to present a neat little explanation that lets nearly everyone off the hook and lets us all feel good about our schools and our society.
These include discussions of the following: (1) the numerous lawsuits stemming from law enforcement’s handling of the shooting (including an alleged cover-up regarding destruction of evidence); (2) fundamentalist religious movements using the “myth” of one of the victims professing her love for God right before being killed as a “rallying cry” for their members (I say myth because the book details how the event was later discovered never to have happened); (3) the battle between local leaders and the National Rifle Association when the NRA was scheduled to have their annual conference in Columbine shortly after the massacre and would not cancel the event; and (4) the radically different path that the survivors and their families lives followed after the shooting (both inspiring and tragic).
Dave Cullen- the author- was one of the first reporters on scene, and spent ten years researching, interviewing, traveling for this book.
Not only does he talk about the murders, but he sheds light on the students and staff that were killed.
He talks about their lives before they were murder and their families' lives afterword.
He shared the difficulties and problems that the two families of the murders faced and still faced.
This was an extremely good book that shed a lot of information about the school "bombing" (or at least that was the goal) on Columbine.
The bombs failed but the massacre that these boys inflicted on their fellow students and their families and communities will never be forgotten.This book paints a very vivid account of before and after the shootings and the author Dave cullen was one of the Colorado journalists covering the story as it unfolded and he certainly seems to have done his research when putting this book together.At first I was disappointed the there was an absence of photos in the Book but the more I read the more I realized the book didn't need them, the only image is the photo on the cover of the actural school and I didn't even bother googling images of Harris or Klebold until I had finished the book.As a mother who does the school run every day, it is the last thing on my mind that something of this nature could every possibly occur in my sugar coated little world and this book really made me sit up and take notice.
I switched from a high school of roughly 800 people in four grades to one comparably the population size of Columbine.
When parents and teachers flipped out kids might start killing themselves in droves and started to hand out tests to pin-point which of the students were sad bastards likely to be a threat to themselves, and a certain person set off all kinds of flags for his answers to those tests the worst he was subjected to was a letter home from the school shrink.
It felt like an appropriate time to revisit this many times since trumped tragedy, as it seems to be the point where the world really began to notice what was already an epidemic of glorification of and widespread access to semiautomatic weapons in this country.
In the weeks before the shooting in Colorado, Eric Harris wrote in his journal to lament the existence of background checks in his state, then went on to examine the Brady Bill in detail, eventually celebrating all the loopholes present for gun shows.
I understand why a lot of people would love to believe that simple things like anti-bullying programs or church camp could work to prevent another such shooting.
It’s unbelievable what has happened to this country in the past five years.Also, I want to put an article that I read today that I find fascinating and completely depressing.....Cheers!https://eand.co/why-were-underestimat...Original review.....April 20th 1999 was a Tuesday.
My first thought was "bad things always happen on Tuesdays."Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold killed 13 and injured 24.
Eric planned the day extensively for a couple of years and they both documented everything with journals and videos.
I know that melting down all the guns won't happen (yet), but I do believe we have to start coming up with some strong regulations to stop future Eric-s and Dylan-s, James-s and Adam-s.
It's in the eyes and the words and the photos left behind of the people who lived it, and this book is as best of an account as I've ever read, written by someone who was one of the first on the scene back when it happened.School shootings are an undeniably disturbing topic, but Columbine handles it with sensitivity and respect, looking into the lives of the two perpetrators beyond the gossip, the stereotypes and the horror stories.
Every generation has its horror story.
For my parents' generation, it was the Cambodian Genocide and Jonestown.
It debunks the jock revenge and heavy metal theories that the media generated in the information vacuum after the shootings and gives the information that proves there was no conspiracy.I was disappointed at first by the lack of photos, but I think it does give the book seriousness and keeps it from supermarket sensationalism.
The writing makes the book as easy to read as a novel.
This is one of the best true crime novels I've ever read, and it's one of the best disaster novels I've ever read.
Once you read this book, you'll be grateful that the damage they did was limited.
The one thing that always stood out on my mind was who the shooters were-- Dylan Klebold & Eric Harris-- and for that, I'm forever disappointed that I couldn't name a single victim (and there were 13!) but without even pausing I could tell you who the shooters were.I had this book on my radar for a long time and finally cracked it open for a book club pick.
My heart broke open a thousand times reading the accounts of these victims and the sadness that enveloped the school so quickly.
Maurice used to read during open mike and Brother Blue would perform and after awhile you’d get to know all the ‘regulars’---There was the really cute quiet guy who totally copped the beatnik look and would madly scribble in his notebook while others performed--only to shatter on stage.
Well, one night the brothers got on stage and delivered this song-poem… I wish I had it…One brother would be the human beat box, the other chanted the words… I can only remember the chorus….Rubber neck….(ticticticpssssticticticboombaheeeeeeeeeh)rubberneck….
And Cassie kind of winked over at me, like, “I’d like to talk, but I’m so much in love.” Her greatest prayer was to find the right guy.
A lot of media attention was given to the mass shootings at Columbine High School in Colorado on April 20, 1999, but so many of the details that were reported in those first few weeks were dead wrong.
Eric Harris was a psychopath who had actually planned a massive school bombing -- not just a shooting -- and his ultimate fantasy was to kill all mankind.
The book starts a few days before the shootings, but chapters also cover the years leading up to the massacre, so you see how the boys gradually arrived at their plan for murder.This book was especially meaningful to me because I was working as a video editor at a TV station on April 20, 1999.
I recently read Sue Klebold's A Mother's Reckoning: Living in the Aftermath of Tragedy, which is outstanding, so I thought it best to listen to a definitive account of not only what happened at Columbine but also objective analyses of the two shooters, Dylan Klebold and Eric Harris.
Sue made some assertions about Eric Harris and her son that made me wonder if these were her perceptions or those widely shared.
I remember being really confused about the details of the Columbine shooting and the two students responsible months after the time it occurred.
I listened to this book and it was a very good production.
Relevant upon release, this book is imperative right now.
It makes for depressing reading, but it is highly readable despite that.The widely held picture of Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold is of a pair of angry loners, the products of parental neglect, who were bullied at school and who killed out of revenge.
Sometimes, that rage would be directed outward, and that's what Harris worked on.Cullen pulls no punches when it comes to describing the ways both boys came to commit mass murder.
He doesn't try to make a moral tale out of his story, but he doesn't shy away from placing blame.Aside from the perpetrators, Cullen directs a lot of that blame at the police for their actions, both before and after the incident.
I even had a science teacher have class discussion on what we should do if we had a shooting at our school and we were in his classroom.
Reading this book opened my eyes to all the misinformation coming out at the time of the shootings and after.
I felt sorry for the shooters at the time because I thought they were bullied and snapped.
I did not realize until I read this book how racist and hateful the shooters were against people who were not even bullying them.
I thought this book was an eye-opener and had a lot of facts and information that was not publicized at the time.
This book was not easy to read (or listen to, in my case). But it is incredibly informative, if you can get past the emotional aspect. Such an intense experience, but really, really well done.
This is the end all, tell all, book of everything you ever wanted to know about Columbine.
I found it riveting, although sometimes a little too much.
However, that didn't disturb me as the author had spent so much time and knew every detail.
I loved the psychological look at these two boy's life's, wow was it disturbing.
So much pain and stress could have been reduced for this town if only they had let people know their findings in a timely fashion.
My idea of what happened at Columbine, and the facts were very different.
I remember watching the news back in April, 1999 when Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold shot and killed 13 people and wounded more than 20 more at Columbine High School in Colorado.
With the issue of school shootings and gun control becoming more heated over the years, I decided it was time to do some reading and learn more information about the incidents, perpetrators and victims as I try become more informed.
I am trying to teach my 13 year old to always fact check things he reads on the internet or sees on television before forming opinions on people, events, etc.....but I am guilty of not following that advice myself.
