https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/160939.Why_We_Can_t_Wait
I read this book in high school at a time when I was just beginning to truly understand the Civil Rights movement. This book changed my life. I don't care if that sounds cliche or whatever, but there is no way a person can read a book like Why We Can't Wait, and experience Dr. Martin Luther King's more than deeply profound rhetoric of freedom and equality and then turn around and aim for mediocrity. I have a lot more to say but I shall save my thoughts and pour them into action.
One sees here in all of his moral and pragmatic glory a leader who is committed to effecting positive change and yet honest enough to share his own challenges and doubts.Yes, there are a few challenges with the book, including that King sometimes is too generous and constructive about certain events (whereas Branch or Garrow and others have been more revealing), but it is a minor annoyance compared with the incredible story within the story and the towering moral leadership - especially as demonstrated in the Letter from Birmingham Jail - that is evidenced herein.As I read this book for the third time and discovered new insights as well as appreciated old ones anew, I couldn't help but compare MLK to our current leadership and, frankly, be saddened.
Martin Luther King, Jr's Why We Can't Wait is an excellent treatise on the race issues still facing our country 50 years ago - 100 years after Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation.
About some of the turning points in American history 50 years ago, especially in Birmingham.
We, especially those of us who are white, need to understand our history as a country.
We need to know what really goes on; when those of us born into privilege don't understand why those who aren't feel oppressed.
Think about how many of King's statements in this book still apply today.
MLK, Jr. was an amazing man who was in love with God and who had a heart for people.
As I re-read "Letters From a Birmingham Jail", I was reminded how loving and forgiving of a man he was, even to the people who despised him the most.
I think this is a great allusion because their weapon was the nonviolent actions, but instead of being used to wound, it was used to heal years of segregation and the awful things that took place in the South against black people.
This is a great history book and should be read in every high school!
I was particularly interested in the four pillars on which his dogged , non-violent movement was based : 1 .
Direct Action .I was simply astounded at the lengthy agreement that individuals were required to sign before being allowed to be part of the protest !This battle by Dr. King , his associates and league of protesters explains why his movement was so popular and successful ; and why the Olympic protest by Tommy Smith and John Carlos , and the violent, hate-filled movement of ' Black Lives Matter' are scorned by many , and eventually doomed to failure .
"Freedom is never voluntarily given by the oppressor; it must be demanded by the oppressed." - Martin Luther King Jr. A beautiful book with an everlasting message of love and non-violence; a classic exploration of the events and forces behind the Civil Right movement by someone that was there,one of the greatest human soul to walk on our planet,an enduring testament to the wise and courageous vision of Martin Luther King Jr. A must read for everyone!!!
"Man was born into barbarism when killing his fellow man was a normal condition of existence. He became endowed with a conscience. And he has now reached the day when violence toward another human being must become as abhorrent as eating another's flesh." --Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.The concluding words from Dr Martin Luther King, Jr.’s were written in his book entitled "Why We Can't Wait." The words illustrate the everlasting struggle of humanity to regain its humanity from the inherited corru
John Donne was corrected when he made the point that "no man is an island," which ultimately describes the essence of Martin Luther King, Jr.'s journey through the corruption of white supremacy in the South over the suppressed "Negro." Interestingly King's perilous civil rights fights for African-American citizens to have equal rights—which were inalienable upon birth—with white American citizens.
The civil rights campaign—which was started years before the emancipation proclamation and still goes on today—is not a civil war to over white suppression or bluntly stated to conqueror 'whitey' but for blacks and whites to have equal footing to "life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness." In modern American society, King's dream has come to fruition and grows stronger with each new generation that doesn't inherit that hatred of racism.
5++++ stars
is it enough to say i kept gasping after turning every single page? "He marched to heal a nation."
"If he is still saying, “Not enough,” it is because he does not feel that he should be expected to be grateful for the halting and inadequate attempts of his society to catch up with the basic rights he ought to have inherited automatically, centuries ago, by virtue of his membership in the human family and his American birthright.” If I summarized the entire book then I have every chapter highlighted.
I really love how this book was so relevant in society, has America ever made progress?
Sorry this is really hard to summarize without getting emotionally attached.Is there any progress at all?
King demonstrated with many other outspoken people to the world the power of nonviolent direct action by examining the history of the civil rights struggle and the tasks that furture generations (like us) must accomplish to bring about full equality.The other reason why this book is perfect for young minds trying to understand what went on during that time frame is that Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. wrote most of this book was written along with a "Letter from Birmingham Jail" King wrote in April of 1963.
I celebrated MLK Day by reading Dr. King’s book, and I am so happy I did. This book is phenomenal!One of the most poignant reads I have read that gives light to some of the most pivotal moments during the Civil Rights Movement. There is so much passion and weight found in Dr. King’s words that it is almost impossible for you to not be inspired while reading.
I can't believe I hadn't read this before, but how amazing to readjust what I think I know, my ideas of someone I think I know, writing in the heat of the Civil Rights Movement, describing 1963 as the great year of revolution when:The Negro also had to recognize that one hundred years after emancipation he lived on a lonely island of economic insecurity in the midst of a vast ocean of material prosperity.
That kind of planning, along with the long preparation of demonstrators to stay strong yet remain nonviolent in the face of violence through trainings and role-playing is what made these campaigns work.
I’ve settled too long for secondary sources.This book tells the story of the Civil Rights Movement, especially the events of the year 1963.
It centers on the events in Birmingham and includes King’s “Letter from a Birmingham Jail.” King explains what their aims were, what philosophy guided them, what tactics of direct action through nonviolence they employed, and what the results were.
King speaks directly to folks like that, and I found myself looking at my shoes, shuffling around, trying not to be ashamed.The book ends with King’s evaluation of what still needed to change and what it might cost in the days to come.
I’m no different.But some people, apparently, are different.
As I read this book, I thought to myself, “how is it possible for a person to be this way?
(I’m not sure I’ve ever called a book ‘inspiring’ without irony before.) It’s short; it’s eloquent: read it.The only food for thought I’d like to offer is the question: could King have accomplished all he did without Christianity?
In our secular age, I constantly see well-meaning people crippled by self-doubt—and, more than that, incapable of inspiring others because of this self-doubt.
My mind is boggled.
How in the world is this not required reading for High School students, or at the very least, college students, throughout the nation?
King is not only a brilliant philosopher of human dignity and nonviolence, but a touching and poetic author.
The nonviolent resistance of African Americans in 1963 should be studied and meditated upon by all who wish to live in a more peaceful world; "Nonviolence, the answer to the Negroes' need, may become the answer to the most desperate need of all humanity."
Regretfully, I once failed to comprehend why MLK Jr. was so revered. I think I attributed his lasting prominence to equal parts merit as well as token symbolism enhanced by martyrdom. Then I read his writing...His eloquence is unbelievable...so poignant and moving that some passages even bring tears to my reticent and cynical eyes. Its worth reading simply to read the power of King's rhetoric and his masterful ability to relate profound emotional expression. After reading "Why We Can't Wait," I now understand the tremendous character and virtue of one of America's great heroes.
I'm glad that I read it but I expected a little more from the writing. The best chapter is his letter from the Birmingham Jail, it demonstrates that he was a smart man who read quite a bit. The last chapter is also good and I can understand why some in the FBI were following him and concerned that he might be a communist. Ultimately I wanted more about the philosophy of non-violent direct action and how they taught people to not respond to violence with violence.
هل لك أن تتخيل أنه وقبل حوالي خمسين عامًا من الآن كان السود في أمريكا يعاملون معاملة أقل مما تُعامل به الحيوانات ؟لا بد أن الكثيرين عاشوا ثورة السود من أجل حقوقهم المدنية وذهبوا لانتخاب أوباما وشاهدوا رجلًا أسود يرأس أقوى دولة في العالم ،، الفكرة في حد ذاتها مثيرة.الكتاب يعتبر مرجع للعمل السلمي الثوري ،، باستخدام قطاع كبير من الشعباقرأه إن كنت تبحث عن إجابة لسؤال ( مصر رايحة على فين ؟ )
This book is brilliant. It should be required reading. As deeply saddening as it is, much of the book applies to racial relations today. It shows how far we have come, but how far we have to go. Engrossing.
The best practice of the principle of Gandhism at a national level. Should be mandatory to read.
The national exposure the Birmingham Civil Rights Campaign received and the brutality of the police response under "Bull" Connor to the demonstrations led to the enactment of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.King organized the book around his "Letter from Birmingham Jail" which forms the fifth of the work's eight chapters.
King next describes segregated Birmingham under "Bull" Connor, a nemesis of the Civil Rights Movement, and then discusses the early stages of the Birmingham Campaign.Following the "Letter" the book then continues with the involvement of the Kennedy Administration and a series of agreements reached with the business and political leaders of Birmingham.
Cotton, who was the Education Director for the Southern Christian Leadership Conference at the time, and worked closely with Dr. King.The second introduction was written by King, and is an unforgettable picture of the abject conditions of many African-Americans in a segregated society.
Ironically, he was a registered Democrat.During the Southern Christian Leadership Conference's Birmingham campaign, which King described in this book, Connor ordered the use of fire hoses, set to the highest pressure, against civil rights protesters.
This book is exquisite, pure and simple.There is a word that we frequently use in the Baptist church: "convicted".
I think, too often, non-black Americans confuse 'passivity' and 'non-violence' when it comes to Dr. King.
His words ring with the conviction of one trained with Protestant teachings: firm and unwavering, not sparing of his reader's feelings.
His words carry the conviction of someone who knows that their cause is just.And, selfishly, I was touched at his hope in America, despite its cruel and bitter history.
There is brilliance of insight into the human spirit, and then there is brilliance. Here that particular brilliance is so aptly reflected in Dr. Martin Luther King's words in his book, "Why We Can't Wait" he states, "when you are forever fighting a degenerating sense of ‘nobodiness’—then you will understand why we find it difficult to wait."Dr. King is quite possibly the greatest Orator of our time!
A remarkable American voice heard round the world, and although written fifty five years ago, still so very relevant.
In 1964, while he was writing his book, President Johnson was busy working on his “Great Society” legislation, which included the Civil Rights Act. This act banned Jim Crow laws, which was King’s main objective in Birmingham all along.
Johnson would also pass into effect laws for fair voting in 1965 (furthering King’s idea of the black political power), and in 1969 another law involving fair housing would pass through Congress.
As the government furthered its involvement into the cause of civil rights King’s optimism had begun to pay off.
When reading Why We Can't Wait, one gets a sense of what Martin Luther King Jr. faced at a crucial point in his civil-rights activism; and Dr. King emerges from the pages of this book not as a distant icon, but as a great, and humanly great, individual.
He is also a brilliant writer, and one of the greatest rhetoricians in all of American history, as Why We Can't Wait amply demonstrates.The central subject of Why We Can't Wait is the civil-rights activism that Dr. King led in Birmingham, Alabama -- at that time, the most completely segregated major city in the United States -- in 1963.
Wise words from a wise man of sending a message of peace and love in turbulent times - and words that are still quite applicable today.
Dr. King’s account of the civil rights struggle of 1963 shows us the deep love for America and the patriotism involved in nonviolent protest.
Here is one of my favorite passages:“I have earnestly opposed violent tension, but there is a type of constructive, nonviolent tension which is necessary for growth.
Just as Socrates felt that it was necessary to create a tension in the mind so that individuals could rise from the bondage of myths and half-truths to the unfettered realm of creative analysis and objective appraisal, so must we see the need for nonviolent gadflies to create the kind of tensions in society that will help men rise from the dark depths of prejudice and racism to the majestic heights of understanding and brotherhood.”
