https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/280727.The_Bride_Wore_Black
The thing you don’t know is that she is metamorphosing into the woman you want her to be.
I fell for Jeanne Moreau just like everyone else who watched that movie.
Truffaut follows the book faithfully, except for the ending, so you have two endings to contend with, and it will be up to you, if you do read the book and watch the movie, to decide which one you like best.
The Lineup of Cornell Woolrich’s I have waiting to be read.Woolrich wanted to be F.
Anyone who has read it before, or has heard discussions about it, knows that the ending is flawed, a letdown of the wonderful journey the reader has taken.
But like the film Apocalypse Now, that journey is so galvanizing we can’t stop reading despite what we know.Though a fully fleshed-out novel, in The Bride Wore Black you can feel the influence of the pulps much more so than in his other big works.
Reading The Bride Wore Black after decades, and not remembering how it ended, I couldn’t help feeling that Woolrich began to have doubts about the long-form, at least for this particular story, and reverted to a pulp-style ending.
She is a master of disguises and of improvisation, each murder done in a completely different manner, followed by a a return to anonimity.There is a reason why so many of Woolrich novels are adapted to the silver screen.
Detective Wanger in this novel is kin to the Scandinavian Martin Beck from "The Laughing Policeman", so aware of how big a role chance plays in a criminal investigation.I saw the French adaptation by Francois Truffaut several times before trying the novel, and I notice now that he preferred a different ending.
One by one, men are dying, deaths that at first seem accidental.
And can the police stop the murders before another man ends up dead?The Bride Wore Black is a great work of suspense.
The murders were believably done and Woolrich's writing was more than up to the task.
I plan on swiping the structure sometime in the future.If you like noir tales of revenge, this is the book for you.Later: This is the one work of Woolrich's that I've read that has stuck with me long after I finished reading it.Also posted at Shelf Inflicted
(The added frisson of pleasure here is where his poor put upon wife corrects the trajectory of the catapult that her husband's murderer is using because he keeps missing with the bottles...classic)This long paragraph is by way of saying "The bride wore black' is the fabulous grandmother of " MM ".
Định cho 5* rồi vì thích quá thích cô nàng vai chính trong cuốn sách này, một con tắc kè hoa thật sự
Woolrich is the hard boiled Shakespeare. Not a word wasted but still rich in simile and metaphor. A plot as preposterous as the Bard would tell or maybe an opera, but still we take it hook, line, and sinker. Oh and that Woolrich twist we know is coming but never see. And as dark as anything, Cornell never leaves you with anything but futility.
Creepy! This is one of those classic-styled horror mysteries where, once you read it, it'll stay in your head for a long time. The way the author writes evokes a definite sense of foreboding and the suspense kept getting more and more intense as the story continued.
This review originally appeared on my blog: http://justaguythatlikes2read.blogspo...Woolrich takes a unique spin on the police procedural by segregating scenes relevant to the crime investigation and that of the victims and perpetrator to create an almost short story like act linked by reoccurring characters.
The deliberate separation served to create a sense of time and space between the murderous vixen and her hunter in detective Wanger, allowing the reader to focus more so on the events at hand, rather than the overarching investigation.'The Bride Wore Black' lacks the poetic prose of other Woolrich novels (notably 'The Night Has A Thousand Eyes') and reads more like a modern day crime novel with a touch of Woolrich trademark noir.
Cornell Woolrich's famous novel, on which the acclaimed François Truffaut film was based, was quite a terrific ride up until the denouement.
Then, coincidence, extreme contrivance, and dialog reading like Stephen J.
Cannell doing his best to write like an early 20th-century bodice-ripper came close to making a disappointment of the whole thing for me.
I'll be interested to go back and revisit the Truffaut film, and I've liked the Woolrich I've read, even this except for those final eight or ten pages.
This is one of Woolrich's most famous and acclaimed works, I should add, so your mileage may vary, as they say.
First I was disappointed because the plot was the same - but for a gender twist - as 'Rendezvous in Black.' Then I was gripped by the amazing plotting and writing. 'Rendezvous' was even darker, more emotional, this one more fun and exciting. A woman was the villain, the one dealing out the - in Woolrich's words - "deferred-payment blood feud." Spectacular. But then, the twist at the end was poorly done and the story ended with questions hanging. It felt slapped together, not edited enough. A shame.

What a fantastic book of revenge!
Story of a 'bride' who kills because of her new husband's death.
Woolrich basically re-writes the same story over and over again - but with additional twists.
Also one gets the impression that Woolrich himself was a psycho of sorts.
I don't know if that's true or not - but there is something very personal in his story-telling that slighly (very slightly) reveals a very upsetting aspect of looking at life in a certain light.
And that light actually is pitch black.
I find his work horrifying and in many ways he's totally undrerated as an author.
Αλλά έλειπε αυτή η αίσθηση της αγωνίας και του σασπένς που έπρεπε να υπάρχει, όπως και βάθος στους χαρακτήρες.
Εντάξει, δεν ήταν εντελώς αδιάφοροι οι χαρακτήρες, αλλά ας πούμε θα μπορούσε να υπάρχει βάθος στον χαρακτήρα της άγνωστης γυναίκας και στον χαρακτήρα του αστυνομικού που ερευνούσε τις υποθέσεις που σχετίζονταν με την γυναίκα αυτή.
Δεν είναι ανάγκη όλοι οι χαρακτήρες να είναι καλά σκιαγραφημένοι, έτσι; Τέλος πάντων, καλό βιβλίο, διαβάστηκε εύκολα, γρήγορα και ξεκούραστα, κάτι πολύ βασικό για ένα μακρινό ταξίδι με λεωφορείο.
Θα ψάξω να βρω την ταινία του Τριφό που βασίζεται στο βιβλίο αυτό, για την οποία έχω ακούσει καλά λόγια.
Khi đọc tác phẩm này cần phải tập trung cao độ vào diễn biến và từng chi tiết nhỏ, nếu không bạn sẽ bị tác giả xỏ mũi rồi dắt đi theo đúng như lối viết khôn ngoan của ông ta.
Tôi phải công nhận rằng mỗi vụ án chỉ vỏn vẹn tầm 50 trang thôi nhưng lại rất đầy đủ và chi tiết.
Woolrich tận dụng triệt rễ những nhân vật mà ông đưa vào truyện, tôi thấy được sự cần thiết của mỗi nhân vật, nếu thiếu một ai trong số họ chắc chắn mạch truyện sẽ không thể nào hoàn hảo được.
A entertaining read from the pulps of the 40's . It is somewhat minimalistic but it works . Woolrich seems to have been forgotten despite having several novels made into movies including a short story that Rear Window is based on .
La sposa era in nero di Cornell Woolrich è il romanzo del 1940 da cui Francois Truffaut trae l’omonimo film del 1967.
Thriller-noir che alterna i capitoli degli omicidi a quelli sulle indagini della polizia, non ha un protagonista vero e proprio: la sposa in nero, misteriosa assassina trasformista, acquisisce un’identità soltanto nel finale, mentre i capitoli che riguardano le sue malefatte sono sempre focalizzati sulle future vittime.
Diventa così una leggendaria incarnazione della morte, più che un vero e proprio personaggio.
Kill Bill di Tarantino sembra una rivisitazione del romanzo sia nella forma sia nel contenuto.
Yet we are draw to this woman who can do anything and did not deal with consequences.Between the deaths and time-almost 2 years.
Wanger the detective knows nothing and still is after some evidence that can lead to this woman who blond, red, brunette never her true self.
The deaths were kind sad because we know that they gonna die no matter what and she acts like nothing is happening.
And when she is tart I felt sorry for her....because she did for nothing...still so or less finally there is some kind of justice for her lovely one.
A woman is on a quest for vengeance and is eliminating men one by one, very cleverly getting into their blindspot each time and taking on a different character then doing a disappearing act afterwards.
A detective believes the crimes are all committed by the same woman but for a long time is baffled although he doesn't give up the pursuit.
I was enjoying this right up to the denoument which I found so weak and contrived, and also could not believe that the woman would have jumped to the conclusions she did if (view spoiler)[she had known her husband had an enemy so that spoiled it for me unfortunately.
13 NOV 2016 - caught this great film on MGMHD today. Really enjoyed it!
Back in high school, me and my best friend read this for a literature project and we were fascinated by it.
Dark and ingenious, a brilliant central idea, pulpy but stylish.
Nhân vật "cô dâu đen" này, cũng như Alex trong cuốn sách cùng tên, là những nhân vật không biết nên thương hay nên giận :( Julie vì quá yêu chồng nên phẫn uất trước cái chết của anh ngay bên bậc thềm nhà thờ, trong khoảnh khắc sánh đôi bên cô thề nguyền hạnh phúc.
Rồi cô dành thời gian của mình để đi tìm giết những kẻ mà cô cho rằng đã khiến người cô yêu nhất phải rời xa cô.Những phần đầu, những vụ án trước tiên làm mình thấy cực kì cuốn hút.
IF you are searching for:* tension: YES u will find it* Mystery, suspense : with average level* horror, creepy: NOP* unexpected END: YES* interesting writing style : YES* easy to read: YES* Grabbing: YEs
Giallo raffinato e ben strutturato, rende benissimo l'atmosfera della storia, la sottile linea che accompagna tutte le morti, fino all'imprevisto finale, che ho trovato un po' troppo paradossale, a essere sincera, anche se ho apprezzato il colpo di scena finale.
Η ιστορία είναι καλή, τόσο καλή που γυρίστηκε ταινία, οπότε για το μετριότατο βιβλίο μάλλον θα φταίει η μεταφράστρια ή η επιμελήτρια... κρίμα!
A murderess on akilling spree. Why?Listened with TTS.Clean with a fewMild Foul Words.
This one seems to have a similar scenario...and since he wrote about 4 or 5 'Black' books, I'm wondering if they all do.
This one too has a similar plot to Rendevous in Black.
Essentially, there are a serious of apparently unrelated murders that are all presented as they occur, with the baffled detectives finding similarities after the 2nd, but they don't fit any pattern.
Another I read this summer - Phantom Lady, maybe - was so suspenseful at points I had to force myself - argue with myself, and sometimes I lost - to jump ahead to find out if what was clearly going to happen did, and how...rather than having him stretch it out like painfully exquisite taffy, waiting for the snap, break which puts it all over ones face.
Another noir that has influenced countless pulp novels and films. The original 'hell hath no fury' revenge fantasy that has become, despite its misogynistic 'feminine mystique' overtones (or perhaps because of those) a cult classic. Written expertly, but without much style, by Cornell Woolrich (working here under the pseudonym William Irish) it tell the story of the dogged determination of a young woman that has been deprived of her fiancee by an accident that should not have happened. Variations on the theme still continue - look at the latest incarnation of the fantasy in TV's Revenge.
All they really knew about her was that she possessed a terrifying beauty-and that each time she appeared, a man died horriblySold!I confess, I want this because I love the movie. Maureen just did this to me with Shoot the Piano Player, and this was suggested, so why not. Have I read any of his stuff? //looks at Wiki I don't think so, shame on me.his first six works, written under the influence of F. Scott FitzgeraldOh HEY.
