https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1334618.Babylon
I lived the little girl's life, though.
I get a bad faraway feeling thinking about what could happen to those very young girls, later on.
It's like some vast ocean somewhere, I'm not invited (I don't want to open the door again to ponder if I felt so bad for the abandoned wife because I'm also not pretty, so also not going to see where the Cynthias lie in exotic sheets of some fleshy bliss blissful owing to you don't have to think about it).
I don't know if the little girl ever lives outside the glass.

Hilarious, bizarre and profound story of debauchery, jealousy and unleashed sexuality. A young girl witnesses the affairs of her parents, grandmother, and servants. Murder, obsession and thievery. The adventure is heralded by the flame haired Cynthia, devourer of the earth and sky.Crevel writes in a labyrinthine and shimmering miasma of the absurdity of humanity, sexuality and existence. Highly recommended.
Maar belangrijker dan dit satirische verhaal is Crevels taal: in de verdeling tussen roman en poëzie zit 'Babylon' nog maar nèt aan de romankant: Crevels schrijfstijl is erg barok, poëtisch, zinnelijk, beeldenrijk en evocatief, en vaak leest het boek als één lang prozagedicht.
Bovendien richt Crevel zich vaak tot zijn personages, wat tot ode-achtige passages leidt.
Het boek is zwanger van erotiek en verdovende middelen, maar vooral van Crevels volstrekt unieke stijl.
De enige smet op Crevels wonderlijke roman zijn de inmiddels volstrekt achterhaalde en clichématige 'woeste en bandeloze negers' die worden opgevoerd.
Babylon, a Surrealist novel that challenges the structure of the novel itself and social values through a syntax of non-linearity.
One metaphor that is constant within Crevel’s writings is the “geography of the body.” Examining the spatial variants of eroticism, desire, sovereignty on a metaphoric image of “the body,” whether it is a social (values) or corporeal (the individual) body, is the starting point in Crevel’s investigation of a more fuller experience of the human condition.
Babylon attacks the bourgeoisie values of a jaded middle-class society in order to liberate man from Western rationality and simultaneously aiming to release his own flesh from social restrictions.
self indulgent piece of crap
FAIL dropped this in radio city music hall. will have to read at a later date.
4 stars for the first half, which follows the effects of a dysfunctional rich family on a young girl's fantasy life. 0 stars for the second half with its sensational/erotic reliance on racist tropes.
This book began perfectly, but got lost somewhere in the middle.
dutch version
