https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13605031-the-sniper
It was really good short story. I really liked the way the author wrote the story!
ساندویچ را تمام کرد وقمقمه ویسکی را از جیبش در آورد و جرعهای نوشید، بعد بطری را دوباره در جیبش گذاشت.لحظهای درنگ کرد، اندیشید که آیا میتواند سیگاری روشن کند؟ خطرناک بود، شاید آتش سیگار در تاریکی جلبتوجه کند و دشمن آن را ببیند.
ناگهان صدای شلیک گلولهای باعث شد که پشت سنگر روی پشت بام، بر زمین دراز بکشد.تکتیرانداز پک دیگری زد و سیگار را خاموش کرد، سپس به آهستگی به سمت چپ خزید.
فورا روی زمین دراز کشید.درخشش نور را دیده بود، از سمت خیابان مقابل بود.
Reading this story probably takes less than ten minutes, but in that time the reader gets a good sense of the brutality of war, and the futility of it.
Is anybody any better off after what happens in the story?
And for most parts war doesn’t make things better.
The story takes place during the Irish Civil War, and the ending of this story is probably strongest in relation with civil war, but in a sense it applies to war in general as well.
To think that this is the first story O'Flaherty got published is interesting.
Wow. That ending was a huge twist. I'm glad I had to read this for school. It was interesting, shocking, and brutal. The prominent man vs. man conflict was strong, but the ending showed his internal conflict. :( Didn't expect that ending.Content: PG - Violence, shooting
I give this story 4 out of 5 stars because it was a little too short.
SummaryThis story is about a sniper during the civil war in Ireland.
After a while, the sniper made a distraction that made it seem like the enemy had killed him.
It was then that the sniper pulled out his revolver and shot down the enemy.
CharacterizationAt the beginning of the story, the sniper was excited to be out ready to snipe any enemies that happened to come his way.
But at the end, he no longer wanted to be a sniper, for he had killed his own brother without even realizing it.
3.5 stars.This was... interesting.
At the end of “The Sniper”, the protagonist reveals that the man he killed was in fact his brother, and at the end of “The Cog”, the announcer reveals James Maxwell is the president of the “New World Order”.
In “The Cog”, the main character is longing the whole story on opportunities he missed, and in the end, the reader realizes he has a good thing going.
In “The Sniper”, the character doesn’t realize what he is missing until the end --- when he kills his brother.
The protagonist in “The Sniper”, and James Maxwell in “The Cog” are very different people, but they still share one thing --- despair.
Set during the Irish civil war, a sniper is stationed in Dublin, Ireland. He first kills and elderly woman who discovers his position, then an enemy soldier. He then is spotted by an enemy sniper, who shoots him once in the arm. He tricks the other sniper into thinking he is dead, by allowing his hat to be shot and dropping his gun. He then, using a revolver, kills his opponent. He, curious to see his enemies face walks up to his dead body and discovers that it was his brother,
this short-story really shocked me!!
Although I expected the way this story would end, I appreciate what the author was trying to do here. This story was very interesting to read with a group of 9th graders for an in class project and I'll definitely be returning to this very short story again in the future to pull out more of the subtleties.
shocking ending
it was sad
I mean, I was forced to read it (skool). I wouldn't go out of your way to read this but it was good. "Then the sniper turned over the dead body and looked into his brother’s face."
I read this twice in high school. Once in grade nine and another in grade 12. Both times I was mesmerized by it. It tells the heart of realistic fiction. The price of war.
This is civil war in a nutshell.
Read and studied for my short story analysis.
Very interesting!
It was required.....
I would have given it five stars but I unfortunately came across a spoiler before I read this. :(
To me this was like a clumsier version of Horseman in the Sky, except that the ending to that one surprised me, while the ending to this one was predictable from the moment the sniper says he's going to go take a look at his enemy. (ノ_<、)
The main character(s) is/are the sniper and the enemy sniper.
The sniper that works the republicans, is trying to shoot the enemy sniper.
The main sniper tries to gun down the enemy without the enemy shooting him first.
My favorite character in The Sniper is the sniper that works for the republicans.
My favorite part of The Sniper is when he left his gun up to trick the enemy sniper.
I would recommend The Sniper to anyone who likes to read short stories and war.
In the "Sniper" by Liam O'Flaherty a sniper in Ireland is fighting in a war.
The book keeps you on the edge of your seat I haven't seen any weaknesses.I think it is the perfect example to show how war separates families.
All of a sudden the Sniper does something unexpected to mess up a very close family.
If I would have to categorize this book I would put it in with suspense.
His writing style make the ending explosive!
The ending scene was incredibly moving because it showed the power of two sides fighting and what it could do.
It was quite boring for me because I'm not a sucker for one-shots or short stories. I prefer books with more... chapters so I can understand the character and better visualize the story. I like stories which make me feel like I'm a part of the story or it was a movie so that when I'm finished reading I'd think "Odd... wasn't I watching a movie? Oh wait! It was a book! Wow, that's amazing..." or something along those lines. Finally finished with the Sniper today...
I enjoyed this short story even thought Im not a fan of war fiction. War is a subject I dont like to read about (but there're one or two exceptional novels). The Sniper was a different story. It had a good flow and a surprise ending. That ending was the real winner of this story. And I heard this was O'Flaherty's first fictional work.
Its not like its described by most famous writers but it shows nd tells a lot about the past, about the time, when poeple woke up nd felt alseep by the humming noises of plains nd by the horrible gun maschines..
This is one of those short stories that I read in high school. Whether it was something my teacher made me read or something that I found on my own, I can't remember but I did find that I still enjoyed it as much as I did the first time.
Our literature teacher gave us this short story as an assignment. I liked it because it have not only an ironic ending but also a deep message that in a war, no matter who wins, everybody lose, because you are fighting against your own people, your brothers.
Do you have 10 minutes of your time right now? If not, make room and read this short story. I will make it simpler. Just click below.http://www.classicshorts.com/stories/...Simple English and a brilliant plot. Liam O'Flaherty dazzled me with The Sniper.
one of the most magnificent masterpieces in the English literature ..i am sure you will keep it by heart..it seems to be a kind of magic which grape you in every time for more and more reading...
it had a huge turning point he killed his opponent in war. he then went to go see who it was and it was his own brother who he had killed
