https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/104342.Grass
'tis the season...13 TALES OF TERROR: BOOK 4once upon a time there was a delightful young story named Grass by Sheri S.
a fascinating planet full of strange multi-colored grass, bizarre fauna, the ruins of an alien civilization.
a feeling of claustrophobia - but, uniquely, a claustrophobia based on an entire planet, one filled with huge living spaces and wide, windy open ranges.
the various moments portraying them gazing silently and malevolently at characters, up close and even more eerily in the distant grasses...
Tepper as the child i've never had but always wanted.
However, much worse than that, the entire novel turns out to be some vehicle for the author to explore some uninspired hokum about Catholicism (guilt, original sin, etc.) and horse-riding & fox-hunting.Any opportunity to discuss colonisation of alien worlds, first contact with an alien race, the differing philosophical outlook of that race, telepathic control, sexual submission, genocide, or indeed any of the *potentially* interesting themes that emerge in this book, all ultimately become discussions about Catholicism and/or horse-riding.
Even the eponymous "grass" that comprises the alien setting for this novel serves no purpose other than to allow horse-riding in space.I cannot recommend this book.
Sapphire seas of grass with dark islands of grass bearing great plumy trees which are grass again."So opens Grass, Sheri Tepper's first fully-successful novel and her masterwork, I think.If you've read any Tepper, you'll have noticed that she takes a pretty dim view of human nature, especially among men -- and of religion, especially patriarchal religion.
The formative image of Grass, to the Colorado-born & raised Tepper, is that of the American Great Plains after a good spring, which is indeed an oceanic experience -- one that your Oklahoma-raised reviewer has shared, and misses.Sanctity, the noxious world-religion of Tepper's Earth, is explicitly modelled on Mormonism.
Marjorie has done charitable work, helping the people who have run afoul of Sanctity, and wonders why they are treated so unfairly, even if it’s according to the church’s rule-book.
And ultimately, are the people of Grass, who are immune to the plague, obliged to do anything for the rest of humanity?Unsurprisingly the aristocrats and the priests come out of this tale looking poorly and I can’t help but think that Tepper had colonialism in mind as she crafted this tale.
One of my favorite science fiction books in recent years, this intricately plotted book creates a complete world and is utterly absorbing. Tepper reminds me a bit of another favorite woman sci-fi author, C.J. Cherryh, in that she takes a somewhat anthropological approach to the alien societies she creates. I won't go into details of the plot -- it's one of those complex sagas that doesn't summarize too well, but I will mention that I enjoy her style, which is lyrical and lush, much like the planet described in this novel.
But the bons are far more interested in the Hunt than in the running of the planet, or even the certain extinction of humanity.
Lady Marjorie Westriding Yrarier is consumed with guilt, and her husband Roderigo is too busy trying to get his wife's adoration and the bon's respect to concentrate on the plague.
And then the end is basically one scene after another of all the characters talking about how stupid and useless (worse than useless--actually harmful, in this book) pacifism is, and how one needs to take moral stands and just commit genocide now and then.
I liked Lady Marjorie a lot, but even she couldn't save this book.
Fortunately for the small town of Commons, neither the Green Brothers, an outpost of disgraced Sanctity monks (Sanctity is a powerful Terran Catholic breakaway sect) or the antiquated seven ‘bon’ families of aristocrats who live isolated in their estancias, or estates, populated by people who are the product of marriages of incest, care very much to extend their power beyond their locked-down enclaves.
After all, God hates non-doctrine thinking.Commoner Town is a small town on Grass - the only town - with a lot of ordinary people who work for the stupid bon aristocrats (they don’t know they are ignorant or tech-stupid) who are too proud to work themselves, although they depend on the ‘lower classes’ to grow their food and clean their mansions.
It's not the easiest thing to do well, and often enough I've seen people kind of dismissively wave it away as a cop-out.
There's a number of interesting concepts explored, and a satisfying conclusion to the story.
But it's the way the book kept cutting my feet out from under me with assumptions I didn't realize I was making that I'm going to remember.As far as the "technology marches on" problems that can plague older science fiction, there really isn't any of that.
Much of what is said about the role of women, and the Catholic moralizing, is outdated.
Sheri Tepper has never been my favourite science fiction writer.
I've only read two of her books, and while I thought The Gate to Women's Country was interesting feminist dystopia/utopia, I really disliked The Fresco.
I thought the solutions in that one were very deus ex machina, (although the bit about impregnating right-to-life male senators with alien babies was very amusing), and that if you need to have unbiased aliens to come fix all your problems, and they'll do it perfectly and be perfectly understanding, you've just reintroduced the idea of God in alien clothes.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
I read Grass within a couple of years after I read The Gate to Women's Country.
Are we inherently good and trustworthy, as I've believed in the past?
She must have seen people do awful things.
And, some of the awful stuff that people do is be stupid.
Although Grass doesn't have human men who are admirable, we see the possibility of beauty in a surprising character who appears late in the novel.Again, this book is more highly recommended than most of Tepper's novels, and I recommend it too!
This book, Grass, is actually set in the same universe as Raising the Stones, but the two books can be read and understood in any order.This story, like the other one by Tepper which I have read, was a slow burner.
Personally, I find it can get a little grating at times to have all the heavy thoughts of the characters, and there is a lot of religious discussion in this book in particular, but I do think that once you wade into the story this discussion does make you ponder, and I like being challenged.
The blend of science and fantasy I mentioned before comes from the creatures that are found on Grass and the way that they have evolved and developed over time.
Not my favorite Sheri Tepper book. I totally loved The Awakeners and Plague of Angels but Grass was a bit too wordy and tedious, even a little preachy at times. An average book from a usually above-average author.
Considering that I usually think of grass as a nuisance, it’s a bit odd that I’m now noticing and pointing out the beauty of grass rippling in the wind.The book takes place in a future world where Terra has population problems and has colonized other planets in order to solve this problem.
A deadly disease threatens human extinction on all the planets, so Sanctity sends a family from Terra on a secret mission to determine why nobody on Grass has this plague.
In the case of this book, the priests are trying to understand the archeological remains of an extinct alien culture that used to live on the planet and elsewhere in the galaxy.
3.0 stars.
Even thought I liked this book, I was surprised that I didn't like it more.
It has a lot of things that I look for in book including, quality prose, well developed characters, an interesting plot and solid world building.
At the end of the day, the story just progressed too slowly for me and I found myself anxious for the story to move along.
That said, after finishing the book I am impressed by the story that the author created, I just didn;t enjoy it enough to rate it higher.
Good, but not great.
Don't get me wrong, I don't think that hunting as such is decadent - only fox hunting ;)It is a very thoughtful story, full of philosophical discussions which are sometimes elaborated quite heavy-handed.I don't quite understand why this feminist author projects religions the way she did here: Catholicism isn't known to be exactly feministic, but a woman having to support her man while he has a mistress?
But why had Tepper to introduce those heavy-handed preachery?It took half of the book before I managed to connect to the various protagonists like the ambassador Marjorie, Grass noble Sylvan and Brother Mainoa.
It's quite a long book and the resolution started to come at about half-way through, so it added up to quite a lot of ridiculous.
I think Tepper's greatest failing as a writer is the way she treats her 'bad' characters (not villains - there are no villains, really, at least not in this book).
It's kind of annoying and also, I think, a bit insulting (coincidence that the vast majority of these 'bad' characters are men?
In my vague quest to read more science fiction, she is the first author I've found whose books are really interesting.
A family of ambassadors comes to the planet Grass, inhabited by isolated, rural aristrocrat families and one large commoner town, to figure out why it's the only human-inhabited planet where people are dying of plague.
I really enjoyed this book (and enjoyed it WAY more than the other Tepper book i've read,  Gate to Women's Country.The other good thing is that, at some point during the book, you get at least a glimpse, if not way more, into pretty much *every* culture encountered: aristocrats, commoners, Sanctity, plague-ridden communities, alien species, repentant monks also living on the planet, etc.
It's a pretty solid guarantee that if a book is anthropological science fiction, and it was written by a woman, and it was published in the 80's or 90's, I will love it. Don't know why those three factors seem to converge on the sweet spot, but they've rarely steered me wrong.I would love to find the time to write a real review of this one at some point. Until then, I'll just recommend it to everyone I can. It's hard to find a copy of these days. It's worth the effort.
There was good and bad in Grass, and I think other people might enjoy it more than I did.I said in my last status update for this book that reading it was "like having a vivid, strange nightmare that didn't quite make sense." I think this captures both the good and the bad of Grass.
(One could argue that Grass is both of these kinds of stories, but I feel that is principally the former.) If I'm reading a fantastic adventure story, I damn well better care about the characters more than say, Nightfall, (view spoiler)[where I just want to see what the hell happens to all the aliens when the suns blink out and they go CRAZY (hide spoiler)].
I have given Grass 4 stars though I would have given it 4.5 if I could but it just didn't quite make it to my top rating.It is, however, a very good book; thought provoking, entertaining and believable (mostly).The first half of the book has an almost claustrophobic feel to it that put me in mind of a Hitchcock movie.
One of the reasons it didn't get the 5 star rating from me.I find it interesting that Tepper, well known as a feminist writer, has chosen to set her book in a society controlled by religion, both 'Sanctity' and 'Old Catholic' and both of those religions portrayed as pretty fundamentalist in nature and very definitely male dominated.
A wonderful book, with beautifully realised characters and a totally involving setting.
It put me in mind of the SF classic 'Dune', but reduced to a more personal, less epic scale with a cogent human future and accessible characters.
The planet of Grass and its societies are finely crafted and its alien inhabitants are some of the most intriguing I've come across.
The storyline is interesting from the very beginning and continually develops and accelerates.
I would heartily recommend it to anyone, especially those who enjoyed the essence of 'Dune'.
So this counts for the deduction of one star.This out of the way: I loved the book!The world building was convincing, lush and mysterious.
The protagonist is a middle aged mother - which I always rejoice at – who has to find her way in a patriarchal, religiously oppressed society.
To me the story felt well balanced and satisfactorily paced.
Tiny bits of information were taken up again later in the book and created the coherent feeling of a well outlined story.I read through the 500something pages within two days and got fully immersed into the world of Grass.
For a start, the story begins long after the aliens in question have been first contacted, on a planet long settled by humans.Grass, a planet covered in swathes of multi-hued grasses with exceedingly long solar cycles and inhabited by strange creatures seemingly analogous to Terran horses, hounds, foxen and vampiric bats.
But the story also encompasses a large number of other characters and this partly explains why the book is as long as it is.
How should man see himself in God's universe if he is not the only intelligent (and soul baring) species?This is quite a slow moving story but I still felt engaged throughout most of the book.
On one hand, Grass herself is fascinating: the mystery of the planet sustains the plot and its slow reveal is truly chilling, as well as convincingly alien; on the other, the ending is quick and neat, as well as predictable: Tepper gives the reader many clues, and they solve much of the mystery themselves--too early.
The book has flaws, certainly, but its strengths are captivating: the fascinating, truly alien landscape of Grass, its unique inhabitants and their menacing, dreamlike atmosphere, and a strong protagonist and philosophical skeleton to support it all.
Like alot of sci-fi, this book is packed full of ideas.
However, the first of several "reveals" come a little too early, and comes at the expense of a interesting subplot concerning a breakaway religious sect.
The several other twists aren't particularly convincing, logical or explained in any real way, and the finale does seem a little rushed.There are things to enjoy: some of the characters are very well constructed and have real depth.
Personally I found it a little horse heavy in places (equine fans should love it!).I understand it is part of a trilogy, and I'm sufficiently interested to potentially give the other books a go

Horrific, strange things happening on this far-future planet of humanity where the grass grows in all colors of the rainbow and the decadent feudal lords are driven by the (not-so) traditional hunt. A romantic quadrangle helps to retain interest in characters while the mysteries of this planet are slowly uncovered by outsiders from an equally sinister far-future human society. A very odd and hard-to-categorize SF novel.
And on a more intimate level, we get to see Rigo and Marjorie, the Ambassador and his wife, as their posting on the planet Grass threatens to unravel their relationship and drag their children along.The first half of the book, concerned with the above intertwinings, is downright brilliant.
They're believeable characters in their own right, and the many details of Marjorie's relationship to the horses in her stable was touching and engaging.If the book had continued with the pace, complexity and nuance of the first half, it would have easily ranked five stars.
Grass the planet is amazing.Marjorie slowly became a layered character that I wanted to read about, but by the end, this was noticeably conveniently plotted (ooo, a letter fell out of his pocket!
Especially those Green Brothers (view spoiler)[who are bad news anyway - they're almost comically villainous - but you also randomly have to have a select few go on a useless evil assassin quest and threaten rape on our heroine?
(hide spoiler)]The best part at the end?
(hide spoiler)]
I have a friend who was literally scared off by another of Tepper's books, and I can see why. This book is dark and, yes, scary, in a very human way. It takes on religion and faith (not necessarily the same thing) as essential questions, and answers them in ways that I ended up likely immensely. Which is not to say that I necessarily agree with the conclusions, but they fit the heroine very well.This was my first Sherri Tepper novel and it was very very good. I will be picking up more Sherri Tepper in the future.
