https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79678.Technopoly
As you know, there have been quite a few books in the meanwhile talking about the negative impacts of the internet – particularly on quality journalism (if that is not an oxymoron).It wouldn’t be fair to call Postman a Luddite – his criticism is both careful and intelligent.
Postman quotes a study that found that most humans are afraid of death… I guess scientists may one day even have the technology to be able to prove that people like food and quite enjoy sex.He makes the interesting point that we are a society obsessed with information, but that we have lost an overarching belief system that would allow us to filter that information and thereby make sense of it.
The mere act of assigning the pleasure or thought-provoking-ness of the book a numerical, measurable value would feed into Technopoly's invisible technologies whose sole purpose is efficiency.
He raises questions that I find especially relevant as a budding educator, questions that nevertheless pertain to anyone who chooses to think critically.
While I don't feel the need to abandon facebook (or my goodreads account), I'll need to continue questioning what I gain and lose through the use of those technologies and look upon the gods of efficiency, convenience, and 'progress' with a critical eye.
Neil Postman makes an argument in this book that will resonate with most religious people and will probably be rejected by everybody else.
It’s an argument against Technopoly and its brother Scientism: the view that science and technology can answer all the problems in our lives.
Clearly, science and technology have solved some major problems the human race has faced, so it’s no wonder that it knocked religion of its throne in the Industrial Age. But just as religious leaders can be corrupt, so can scientists.
It’s “objective.” The less we value human input, Postman argues, the more we have been taken over by Technopoly.
Postman tends to come across as a curmudgeon in his writing, but in Amusing Ourselves to Death, he presented a reasonable, fairly robust argument that felt supported by evidence.
He does not maintain rigor in his definitions, and without much elaboration or evidence to support his claims, the writing comes across as the scattershot rant of a drunk, paranoid uncle.By the end of the book, Postman's thesis (never clearly formulated in the beginning) is butchered beyond coherence.
His argument bounces all over the place in some spastic attempts, and by the end, the reader is expected to swallow some mumbo-jumbo, half-baked prescription for thwarting the Technopoly, contradicting himself numerous times even in the final few pages.
There is much here to recommend to both those who are disquieted by technology and to those who wonder if we aren't losing our moral compass in our embrace of all things that distract and momentarily engage our flitting minds (minds, Postman would argue, increasingly shaped by the Technopoly we live in).
As an educator, the Biggest Idea I took away from this book was the insight into the cataclysm now ravaging the public school system.
Students come to us as the babes of technology culture and we, standing in the 400+ long tradition of the Book Culture, try to persuade them that reading, knowledge, wonder, and exploration are valuable.
Technopoly tells us that technology has an inherent viewpoint, a 'take' on reality.
More unsettling is that Postman argues we adopt the viewpoint of the technology we use.
For example, by naively citing social science we adopt Scientism--a scarily amoral view of reality.
Postman's Technopoly is a negative description of modern American society--wholly taken into technological development, wholly sapped of social mores and the traditions that uphold them.
God and learning have been replaced by efficiency and progress.
As with any social critic, he's long on problems and short on solutions.

So how did American culture become a Technopoly?According to Postman, a technological history of a society can be broken into three phases: tool-using, technocracy, and Technopoly.
At the time this book was published Postman claimed that United States was the only Technopoly in existence (I suspect he would revise that statement today if he were still alive).A Technopoly is a society that thinks that knowledge can only be had through numbers and thus, it is a society that puts an obsessive focus on trying to quantify life and puts excessive trust in experts.
Written by an old man who resents the fact that the things he esteemed in his life are no longer as respected as they once were.
I hate that Social Science is displacing being well read when discussing opinions of public affair.
I don't begrudge him his opinions, but I resent that this entire book can be summarized like this:"I really don't like that culture does A, B, C, D, & E.
Oh, and if you don't agree with my assertions then you are an idiot." - Neil PostmanIt got 2 stars instead of 1 because as horrible as the content is, it is well written.
Another book about the danger of trusting too fully in technology. Postman's argument encourages us to keep those low-tech ideas and solutions that still work (better) and view technology with reason, looking for that which truly benefits us as humans, rather than embracing technology that degrades us. (For similar writing, read Wendell Berry also.)
For instance, Technopoly has created new specialists and experts who are able to wield and control technology and thus gain power, but to the detriment of other specialists who have been rendered obsolete by technology (p.
Postman traces the history of technology in culture, noting in particular the importance of the clock, the printing press and the telescope, all of which had worldview-altering consequences; for example, the telescope decreased mankind’s sense of centrality to God and the Universe (p.
Postman notes that culture privileges statistical, quantifiable data, but not all knowledge can be measured purely by statistics.
Despite being written in 1992, this book offers a view of the influence of technology on our lives that is as relevant as ever, if not more so in this age of government espionage on all our communications, of corporations greedily soaking up the personal information we happily share on social networking sites, of tech companies believing that their latest smart phone will improve our lives.To be sure, the author (the cultural critic Neil Postman) is not a Luddite: he does not deny the usefulness of technology, but he warns against placing them central in our lives, in believing in them without any reflection on them.
Personally I don’t think this always applies and that there is a lot to discover in more ancient forms of technology and culture, but more importantly Postman offers an excellent view of how our thoughts and opinions are shaped by the technology we use.
It is almost impossible to think of life without things like (all of which are 500 or less years old):- The watch/clock that now governs every second of our days (widespread for common people circa 1800s)- Grading systems in grade school & universities (circa 1700s)- Specific subject studies with time restraints in universities (our idea of taking a class - 1700s)- the measurable “spectrum” of human intelligence (IQ tests - (1900s)- the printing press and the excess of irrelevant information available to us today that have no bearing on our immediate lives (1500s)- Science and the idea of cause/effect throughout and our expectation of “cause/effect” on everything in our lives.
To be honest many of the ideas he espoused here felt somewhat familiar to me.
He correctly notes that an absence of other solid cultural values (degraded as they have been by other philosophical and scientific developments) has left many of us completely unable to contextualize technology into our own lives.
Unlike tools which we developed for a purpose, our development of technology goes on autopilot and we resign ourselves to going wherever we may with it.All in all this is a solid and necessary need to understand the age we live in.
This book is about how technology affects our society and culture.
Specifically, this book is about how Technology negatively affects our society and culture.
However, when I finished I remember being dissatisfied with Postman's arguments, thinking he was an idiot, thinking the book was well written, and being damn proud of myself for reading the book in one sitting.Neil Postman gets two stars for good writing, he would have had more, except that I disagree with his thesis and he does not argue it particularly well.
I picked up this book immediately after I finished Postman's other book, amusing ourselves to death and while I think there is some overlap, I think both books are so well-written and so precise in their identification of the challenges of technology. I kept thinking "he doesn't even know about Google and Facebook yet!" Yet he is prophetic about the problems in science, data, overly technical medicine, etc. It's only gotten worse since the book was written. Postman is either a crank or a prophet of our time and I lean toward the latter.
This is my favorite Postman book so far. It was thought provoking to the point that it makes me question the use of the 5 star system on this site. I liked the scope of this book more than that of Amusing Ourselves To Death. There was more emphasis on our cultural ideologies and less on imagined historical ideals.
This book was incredibly insightful into the American concession of all things to technology and its advances. In 2018, the extension of Postman’s 1993 foreboding analysis of our culture has progressed tremendously. He also ends practically with a hopeful future for our society and its relationship with technology.
A great book which analyzes both philosphically and quantifiably the effect of the media, and technology in general, on our lifestyles. It examines the technologies which we do not even notice, and look at how those tools in themselves affect the information ecology within which we live. A
One of the most influential books about technology, narrative, and education that I have read. Very long sorta-review here: http://davidsasaki.name/2015/12/the-e...
Superb.
In this book, Technopoly, Postman takes his idea of the impossibility of a neutral medium deeper with his critique of the assumptions that underlie our technological world.Postman believes that the United States has become the world’s first “Technopoly.” In the first few chapters of the work, which was written in the 1990s, he sets out what this means with an overview of the history of technology that, though problematic in some respects, draws widely on many well-known historians of technology.
"Bagaimanakah sesebuah masyarakat itu akhirnya tunduk kepada teknologi?" sepertimana tajuk yang tertera pada buku ini merupakan perkara yang cuba dikupas oleh Neil Postman, seorang pengkritik dan ahli teori komunikasi di New York University.Kritik Postman terhadap teknologi yang terkandung dalam buku ini dibahas daripada pelbagai sudut.
Menariknya, Postman mengadunnya dengan latar sejarah, falsafah dan fakta-fakta semasa.Technopoly seperti yang dimaksudkan oleh penulis merupakan suatu cubaan mendefinisikan semula makna agama, seni, keluarga, politik, sejarah, kebenaran, privasi dan kepandaian supaya maksud yang masyarakat kini fahami, bersesuaian dengan keperluan baru atau semasanya.
Listened to on hoopla.Although a quarter century has passed since the original publication of the book it remains just as relevant if not more so today. Not my favorite book by Postman, probably due to my own limited intellect and the fact that it shares material covered in his other works. Still worth reading/listening to. I wasn't happy with Jeff Riggenbach's narration, it felt rushed, at times almost frenetic, and the tone was robotic at best.
Primjer uticaja tehnologije na nacin razmisljanja: neurologija je jako ogranicena jer odkako je kompjuter izmisljen koristi se "informaticki" model opisivanja mozga - a on ima mnoge nedostatke medjutim nauncici ne mogu da se razmisljanjem odvoje od njega i zamisle bolji zbog toga sto se toliko toga zna o tome kako kompjuteri procesiraju informacije.Politicari vise nemaju agende niti svoje stavove koje guraju, nego anketama Tri su stepena drustva prema njegovom odnosu sa tehnologijom: 1.
Excellent and challenging book written in the nineties! I wonder what he would think about our culture now.
This is an interesting book about being critical of technology.
His point is that people are more likely to believe absurd claims if you cite science journals, even though it doesn't make it any more likely to be true.
This is the kind of relationship our culture has with science that Postman is trying to expose.Postman actually doesn't criticize technology much in this book, although he often criticizes our relationship with it.
The point is to ask the questions, to think critically of the technologies we use, rather than just assume that every technology will improve our lives and every scientific claim is legitimate.
Sorry, Mr. Postman.Anyway, Technopoly takes the idea behind Aldous Huxley's dystopic novel Brave New World very seriously.
Faced with an information glut, people will revere data sorting software despite its ostensibly doing nothing of actual use.I don't know if Postman would agree with me here, but Technopoly seems to be about how to deal with (and resist) a world where computers are becoming more human while humans become more tied to machines than ever before.While this book was interesting, and likely important, I couldn't take it completely seriously.
Though, by the end, he seems to have portrayed the rise of the modern American Technopoly more as a degeneration and undermining of the cultural meaning and purpose undergirding our entire society.As one who absolutely loves progress and scientific advancement, I found myself nodding my head again and again as he critiqued how our culture has mindlessly and carelessly embraced a scientific approach to life which ultimately has no purpose or meaning for its existence.
I would also encourage pastors to read the book, because it offers a critique of modern culture which includes many specific areas which will help Pastors think well about culture and how it impacts people.
Postman gives a (mostly) unbiased opinion on the state of the technology culture today (the Technopoly) and how we as a society can begin to integrate technology into our classrooms without it first swallowing education whole- but that's only the last chapter.Most of the book Postman spends discussing the history of the technological revolution, which started long before my generation.
I really loved reading this and found most of the chapters fascinating- but reader beware- this is by no means a leisure read.
