https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84060.My_Teacher_Is_an_Alien
I remember I literally couldn't put this book down. I read it at school. My sixth grade teacher noticed and borrowed it as one of her read out loud to the class books. The whole class loved it and after it was over they carried me around the class on their shoulders. Okay maybe the last part didn't happen but I was seriously popular for weeks cause kids wanted spoilers.
This book single-handedly made me fall in love with science fiction when I was in fourth grade (thanks, Mr. Juhas!).
One of the things I'd forgotten was that this book is written from the perspective of a sixth grade girl named Susan.
In my opinion, her gender wasn't all that important to the story, but it's interesting to note that Coville chose to write from a girl's perspective for a science fiction story.
Each character has clear, individual motivations.- the hidden messages deal with fears virtually every middle school student has: sometimes it's hard to broach tough subjects with parents, fear of how peers will react, dealing with schoolyard bullies, etc.I'd recommend this book to any middle grade student who's ever felt like an outcast.
So I really didn't have much of a life as a kid, but I remember ploughing through these one summer, probably when I had a twisted ankle and was couch-bound. Looks like he kept writing beyond the years I read him, but these were essential readings at the time. Miss you Scholastic!
What is there to even say? Bruce Coville is the reason I love reading, and the reason I love sf/f in particular. This was the most formative series of my childhood. The first book is pretty light and silly (the end of the series is quite a bit heavier), and utterly delightful.
My 11 year old son really liked listening to this audiobook, even after he read the copy that he owns. And I really liked listening to it with him!
This was one of my favorite books as a kid and I’m pleased to see students continue to check it out, as well as Coville’s newer books.
Good use of the evil teacher trope.
Mr. Smith has some very creepy standoffs with Susan as he stays in character as their teacher.
Trying to balance supernatural threat with the pressure of daily life is always a great lens for the experience of being young - I like the way that saving the world and doing a clarinet solo are equal pulls on Susan here.
I liked the book because it was all about a teacher that was actully alien.
I discovered that our local library OverDrive website had a bunch of fun children's books in audiobook editions, so I thought I would give this one a try.
It's a fun, fast story and I enjoyed listening to Liza Ross narrate the story.
I really like that it is told from Susan's perspective, instead of from a boy's.
Overall, I thought the plot was a bit silly, but I liked it anyway.
I see, now that I've gone on Goodreads to post this review, that this is just the first book in the My Teacher is an Alien series.
for example, on page 93.
When Duncan,Peter and Susan was spying on Mr.Smith.
Another is that on page 51.
When Peter and Susan was in the middle of the attic.
I would reccommend this to my brother because he loves mysteries.
He also, likes watching Law and Order.
Law and Order is about mysteries.3.This book was not challenging for me.
It was not challenging for me because, while my brother watches Law and Order I have to predict what happens.
He loves reading books he don`t like watching tv and people tease him about it.
He has one friend and thats Susan.
Grade Level: 6th to 8thThis science fiction book is about an alien that comes to Earth, poses as a teacher, and has a plan to abduct students for study.
The main character, Susan, discovers he is an alien and the book unfolds with her attempting to foil the aliens plan.
The dialogue includes internal monologue from the main character.This book can be used to discuss unlikely friends (Peter and Susan), the possibility of aliens, or the process of solving a mystery.
In addition, this book can create a discussion about aliens and what they might discover when they visit Earth, allowing students to have a larger view of the world.
Loved this book!!! I discovered this book when I was in middle school. This is how I figured out that books contain adventures between their pages. Then I was hooked. This book is the reason why I read. Thanks B.C.
I've had to fight my now 1st grade son for two years about reading this book.
I told him last summer that in 2017 we could read it.
There are three main characters, Susan(smart girl), Peter(skinny, sci-fi lover), and Duncan(bully).
Each character feels incredibly real for a grade school level story.
I remember loving Peter when reading as a child but Susan is the star.
Duncan is a good character but not really a focus until later books.
What a fun story.I loved this series as a child and my son loved this book now.
Fun kid's book with a twist at the end.
A student is suspicious about her sixth-grade classes new substitute teacher.
Soon, both students begin to track the teacher, following him home, and in the major climax of the book -- somewhat ruined by the front cover that I still think is awesome -- they find out that their wildest ideas are true and that their sub has definite plans for each and every one of their classmates!
My first time reading this title was in my school library.
I also read more of "My Teacher Is An Alien" series.
When Mr. John Smith starts teaching the sixth grade, Susan Simmons assumes that Ms. Schwartz was fired for her radical teaching methods.
Mr. Smith is anything but radical.
He brings back the standard reader, vetoes the annual class play, refuses to read a fun book aloud, and hates music.
Upstairs she finds Mr. Smith sitting in front of a makeup table.
When Susan tells Peter Thompson, an avid reader of science fiction, he thinks she's poking fun at him.
Then, he thinks she's playing a game.
Peter suggests that they go to Smith’s (aka Broxholm’s) house seeking evidence.
The book i have read was,"My Teacher is an Alien".It was a very interesting book that was about stud
It's been...I don't know...over 20 years since I read this?
I read a lot of books in middle school, and this was one of my favorites, and it's one of the few I still very clearly remember.
I also remember the feeling of pure EXHILARATION reading it; it was definitely one of the first to so completely and utterly grab me the way it did.
Maybe when my kids are old enough to read I'll gift it to them, and I'm sure they won't object if Daddy borrows it for a little bit.
This book is about a teacher named Mr. Smith that his real name is Broxholm. He wants to take five kids with him so he can study them in space. A girl finds out and she tells a group of all her sixth graders about it. Just so i don't spoil the ending ill just say this, the alien is hideous. That is nice honey!
Imagine finding out that your sixth grade teacher was going to abduct five kids in your class, the best student, the worst student, and three of the most average students. Being the only two kids to find out if Mr. Smith was really an alien, Susan and Peter had to find proof.
It was a pretty good book and really exiting.
So bad. Loved it as a child.
It still holds up as an excellent sci-fi book for younger kids.I was an avid reader when I was younger so when my teacher started reading it, I got my hands on my own copy as quickly as possible to finish it up.
Its almost more than Susan can handle.After accidentally handing a note that bashes her new teacher, Mr. Smith, Susan follows him home.
Soon the pair (along with school bully Duncan Dougal) are doing all they can to prove what Mr. Smith really is and what really happened to their former teacher.This is an excellent book that holds up well.
My Teacher is an Alien is on my favorites shelf because it was humorous and I love a book with a suspenseful plot.
I found it hard to put down because almost every chapter was left unresolved as the climax built up so I had to keep reading to find out what happened!
This book would be great to introduce readers to science fiction because it is short, funny and has kid friendly vocabulary.
I feel like preteens will relate to the characters (nerd, bully, average kid, etc.) and also the messages throughout the book (fitting in, talking to parents, standing up to bullies).
This was so much fun to read and case me a case of nostalgia… so much so, that when I finished reading it, I started to suspect I actually read this when I was little.
It was fun to read (again?).
I think I read so many books like this when I was in grade school, that they’ve all blurred together.
(It seems like a lot of sci-fi books - especially from this time period and back are narrated by males.) And I love how the plot just zips along!
Each chapter ending on a cliff hanger, it's hard to put down the thrilling adventure of a girl who discovers that her teacher is an alien.
Can she rescue everyone- or anyone- on time?Using sci-fi and aliens- this book could be used as a metaphor for what it can feel like being a kid- not being believed by adults, not being able to talk to adults, trying to tackle big problems on your own...I really like everything I've read by this author.
His books came out when I was the right age for them, but strangely enough I never read any of them then.
I read this book in a couple of hours and it was my 5 years daughter first SF book (I told her the summary of the whole book and she understood everything), so you can see this book is also for very young readers. Also, while retelling the story I was asked why it is so easy to get in, in someone else home ( not only once, but 3 times :)). The plot is very simple and the story is funny but the illustrations are horrible.
I have not read this since fourth grade and decided to see how it held up. Mostly very well. Sure, the prose is for the young, but there are some moments of terror, wonder, tenderness, and creepiness. Character development is better than one might expect. The illustrations are some of my favorite in any book. The classic cover still packs a punch. Overall, I am excited to (again) read the next three books.
When sixth grade Susan discovers that her teacher is an alien, she doesn't know what to do. She knows adults won't believe her. She needs to find proof.Teaming up with the class nerd and bully, they set out to find the proof and save themselves before that are kidnapped and taken to another world.This fun book is perfect for school agers 8 to 12.Check out my full review on YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mqxu7...
As an adult the book is a very slow start. But it picks up, and as an adult you can read it in 60-90 minutes. What now is probably a pretty common-place episode of a Nickelodeon sitcom (kids suspicious their teacher has a dark secret), Coville manages to stretch out for the entirety of the book. The protagonist struggles, has plans that don't work out, uses a variety of skills to overcome challenges. Pretty well-written from a storytelling POV, aside from the slow start.
My Teacher Is an Alien by Bruce CovilleReady, Set, Play that Sousa march! Friends face dangers together! This is a wild, wacky book with aliens, bullies, danger . . . and piccolos? I listened to the well-read CD, but as suspense mounted, I switched to reading the book -- both versions wonderful, and the illustrations added nicely. I'm going to suggest this to friends with young readers, but I'll also read the series myself because good books know no age limit.
