https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/587582.Queen_of_Sorcery
I wasn't sure that I would continue reading the series after this book because I thought the book was "just okay." However, something changed about halfway or more into the book and now I look forward to reading the next one.
The routine pattern finally changed and the plot became more interesting as new information about Garion was revealed.Although my interest in the book was increased greatly by the end, I have three remaining criticisms: (1) The main character, Garion, seems to have very little self-insight.
Many authors are terrible at dialogue (or minimize it, perhaps because it's so difficult to do well).Overall, I ended the book enjoying it and looking forward to the next one.
I really enjoyed this reread.
Wonderfully fun story that expands the characters of the first book in a masterful way.
They're caricatures, but good ones & Eddings doesn't take them too seriously.
This is a simple epic story.
No high falutin language or imagery, just a simple boy & his friends on an epic quest.If I have any complaint about this series it's that it resembles eating potato chips.
It's awfully difficult to stop until all the books in the arc are read.
Books 1 and 2 really should have been published as one volume. This is the one where their companions are almost complete and we get a lot more info about what exactly is going on. I've always loved the characters in this series :)
“As long as I know that my motives are good, however, I’m seldom very concerned with the opinions of others.”Queen of Sorcery is the second book in The Belgariad series, preceded by Pawn of Prophecy.
I didn’t intend to just drop the series for years before continuing on, but alas..
The forest floor was covered with a kind of gray moss that looked diseased and unwholesome.”Queen of Sorcery picks up after Pawn of Prophecy.
But it’s a series that I hope will just keep getting better.
However, let’s hope it won’t take me another three years to pick up the next installment!
I still love the whole series, but struggle with this particular book.One problem I have is the character of Garion.
This just seemed far too lazy on the part of the world-builder - it makes a novel far more interesting when race is not so heavily defined.The story itself suffers somewhat from middle book syndrome - we are still gathering characters together, and discovering the overall arc of the plot.
This was my "gateway" fantasy series, and while I have happily read hundreds of fantasy books since, the Belgariad will always have a special place in my heart.
In comparison to the first book, Queen of Sorcery gives the reader a lot more information and a greater incentive to continue the series.
The prologue tells of a famous battle that happened centuries in the past and the second info dump gives the reader a rehash of Pawn of Prophecy.
They have to retrieve the Orb before Zedar can deliver it to the evil god Torak, waking Torak from an ensorcelled sleep to take over the world.Queen of Sorcery also gives the reader a better sense of Eddings' world.
4.0 stars. Good sequel to Pawn of Prophecy. I find myself liking the supporting cast more than the main character, but this is still a fun read.
Going to review the whole series as one...
I can think of much better prophecies22 June 2012 Maybe I should have discussed idea of prophecy under Pawn of Prophecy because the title of that book seems to be more conducive to that discussion than this book, however I wanted my review of the Pawn of Prophecy to be a bit of an introduction to the series as a whole rather than focusing on something specific. I note that the first review here indicates that the first part of the book seems to be a series of 'meet the enemy, escape, Silk does s
When I first read the book I really related to Garion (who would not want to be the prophesied one who will save the world) but when I look back upon it I once again simply see how unoriginal it was.
The idea of a farm boy going of and saving the world is nothing new: Tolkien did it, as have numerous other writers.
The idea that a prophesied one would come and save the world is nothing new either.
But the key thing for me is that Eddings manages to give these ideas his own twist—he may take inspiration from Tolkien, but he doesn’t just copy him wholesale.
Having said that, the genders are still treated in a stereotypical fashion—Polgara is rigid, rather puritanical, and very controlling, while Belgarath is looser, both in discipline and morals, and much more improvisational.
This is a much more sexual world than previous high fantasy epics (pre 1980s).
Considering the number of pages in each volume, the plot doesn’t advance very quickly.
Quite an improvement over the first book.
While the structure of this installment is rather similar (go to this place, expose some political plot, get on the road, run into trouble, repeat), the action is much more exciting, and how should I put it - magical!
Finally Eddings realized that there is more to fantasy novel than just characters that can do magic.
While I understand that it was a common practice for the industry to assume their readers had ADHD and couldn't possibly sit through a longer novel, Belgariad saga would have improved tremendously from being slapped together into a single volume.
Like, Eddings mentions how someone feels, but he only mentions it once, so I forget about how characters are feeling a lot.
Like I remember at one point in this book it mentioned Garion feeling consumed with hatred for his parents' murderer, and I was like, "Really?
That's the only really frustrating thing--I mean, he's a clever enough boy that he would have put it together at least by the end of this book, what with the clues that are so obvious they practically slap him in the face.
But anyway, aside from that I still like the books a whole, whole lot.
The most pleasant read There is no other series I find more relaxing to read.
The prose is so gentle and invisible I can read a hundred pages at a time and it feels like twenty.Frankly this series should be more popular than it is.
The target audience is probably YA if im honest - which is probably why it's not more popular.
Then again, Harry Potter is uber popular with adults, and I rate this much higher than HP so...
This should be more popular.
Better writing than Kingkiller Cronicles.
Better (and less in-your-face) worldbuilding than Way of Kings.
More meaningful than Harry Potter.
5 stars Audiobook - Garrion what did you do?
Notting aunt Pol, realy.- whe follow Old Wolf, slik, Barak and the others as they want to get de orbe back from Zeldar.
Garrion gets older and gets to know more and more about he hole story also conserning him.
The only one who sees him still as a little boy would be aunt Pol. But she is also the one how raised him.
Again draws Eddings a beautiful world where you can step in and enjoy the story.
These characters by David Eddings where my introduction to fantasy.
At the very beginning of Queen of Sorcery you are reminded of how young and naive Gairon still is and during the course of this book you start to finally see him start to grow up a little, a though not fully.
I'm betting this series will be a great journey in order for Gairon to grow up and discover his power.
This book was a little slower in the middle than Pawn of Prophecy, but it picked back up and left me wanting more with a cliffhanger ending!
I'm glad I don't have to wait for the next book, I'm picking it up right now!
Garion and his companions continue on their quest for the orb and pick up a Mimbrate Knight and an Imperial Princess. They continue to advise the kings of the areas they pass through and avoid the Murgos. This story ends with a confrontation with Salmissra.Garion starts to realize he is special and has trouble coming to terms with it and what he did to Chamdar. He just wants to be an ordinary boy and isn't going to get his wish.
These sets of books are my best friends. I have been reading them since I was 15 years old and when I want some comfort I can loose myself in another world, following the adventures and the discoveries that Reveal who Garion truly is.
I found that a lot of the kingdoms they visited were rather similar and even after finishing the book, I couldn't tell you one from the other very well.
The writing has matured somewhat from the previous book and it does get a bit detailed when the politics of the kingdom they are currently in comes into play.
I think that keeping them mostly together has been rather dull and doesn't allow for deeper character development.Regardless of the 2* scores for both of the first books in this series, I am still going to keep reading them, and finish up the series.
Queen of Sorcery continues the Belgariad of David Eddings with this volume, the second of the series.
It picks where the first book, Pawn of Prophecy ended, with the group journeying to the southern kingdoms on the trail of the thief of the most important artifact of their world.The cast here increases as the group travels more characters join them, apparently in fulfillment of the prophecy that is one of the themes of the Belgariad that spans the series.
Eddings continues to develop his characters, adding depth to what has become an interesting cast.
I’ve now read plenty of stories about nameless orphans etc who turn out to be the missing bloodline to the throne who then go on to battle unimaginable (except that of many a fantasy writer) evil to save the world.
Personally I absolutely loved the Belgariad series of books and found them to be enthralling and exciting.
In particular I loved the characters and thought them to be some of the most well rounded and clearly defined I’d ever read.
But given that Eddings had five books to do this I would have expected nothing less (mind you some authors can’t even manage that!)
While thinking of what I would write for a review of this book, I realised that whatever I wrote wouldn't do it justice. The adventures of Garion are continued in this book, with him exploring many new lands and hinting at what is too become of everyone in terms of the prophecy. Its rare that a book, genuinely engages me for long periods of time but this book has certainly done so, I could quite happily spend all day ready this book.
Eddings, Belgariad'ın öyküsüne kaldığı yerden devam ediyor bu kitapta. Akıcı bir dili, zekice kurgulanmış ve bazen güldüren diyalogları da kitabı çekici kılıyor. Ayrıca bu kitapta yazar adım adım kurmaca dünyasının diğer ülkelerini bizi dolaştırıyor. Macera, seyahat ve fantastik edebiyat severlerin kaçırmaması gereken bir kitap.Ayrıntılar için: http://kitapokurum.blogspot.com/2018/...
These books are a lot of fun.I do have to say, for adult readers, I can see how these books could be a bit grulling.
For one thing, the plot is cliche.
However, even when I notice large similarities to Roman, Norse, Arabic, and German cultures, there is enough of his own flavor to make still make it fun and totally readable.What I didn't expect, was how much I have enjoyed the revisiting the characters.
I can't say that they are not cliches, but they are great ones; comforting ones.
It has been a lot of fun.
I thought this book really took the series to another level.
The first book, Pawn of Prophecy, was good, though predictable and at time childish in my opinion.
Queen of Sorcery took you deeper into the magic of the world and gave you more insight into the characters.
You also start to get subplots in this novel.
The first novel really seemed to have a singular plot that wasn't really clear until half way through the novel, where as this book stays true to that plot, but expands into other side archs that make the characters more interesting.
Overall, I'm enjoying this series a good deal.
Starting Magician's Gambit right away.
And does Polgara somehow just keep on being even more annoying than before?
OR am I crazy?Sure, I appreciate the author's effort to keep us on edge about what is going to happen and how Garion is The Chosen One as if everyone is so stupid not to realize it in the first ten pages of the series.It seems that the author has a certain issue with female characters, even though they aren't exactly completely flat and one dimensional, but still, he seems to insist that they are behaving irrationally angry at the men and doing a lot of silent treatment and hinting about at the men.
David Eddings had such a rich imagination. This instalment of arguably his greatest work is effortlessly captivating. It takes the reader into a completely alien world. A world packed with snake people, restless gods and children of the forest. I wish I had read this as a child, because it really is one of those stories that will stay with you forever. To compare an author to J.K. Rowling or J.R.R Tolkien is a very dangerous thing to do. But David Eddings belongs firmly up there as one of the greats of fantasy writing.
The second book of the Belgariad series has much more magic, character development and adventure when compared with the first novel.Several more interesting characters are introduced in this book and they are quite refreshing and amusing. The author has created wonderful dialogues and interactions between the main characters in such enjoyable fashion. Therefore the reader feels closely related them.In my honest opinion; this book is a well written sequel. However I would rather spend less time writing reviews about it and start reading the third book!
Just as good as Pawn of Prophecy; draws you in and makes it impossible for you to tear your eyes away with the amount of action and surprises it has in store. The existing characters all grow on you, one by one, and it is particularly nice to watch the growth of the main character and the appearance of new ones.
There's nothing like re-reading old favorites and finding out they still hold up. QUEEN OF SORCERY made me laugh out loud more than once, and honestly, I'm astonished at the depth of description in these books--I didn't remember the scenery at all, but the descriptions are really quite beautiful.And I still love Silk. <3 :)
