https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2325390.The_Wasteland_Prufrock_and_Other_Poems
I even keep a copy of Garrison Keillor's anthology "Good Poem's For Hard Times" on my night stand, for Pete's sakes!
(Ok maybe there the tv remote is sitting on top of it).
But, some of those poems I understand - I think.Ole' T.S. is smarter than me and I think that's the problem here.
Alfred Prufrock well enough, but so much of The Wasteland is unintelligable to me that I found myself reading a page and setting this down.
It's disgraceful - the thing can't be 75 pages and here I sit, unable to get through it.
I dont know how to review this because it always feels like I am still in the process of reading it and untangling it and pealing away it's layers.at times i find my self reciting the parts that i know of some of these poems.when I am really done with it. if I am ever, I might give a proper review.
How many dozens of times I've been through this book I don't know. Read Eliot, that's all I can say.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Kublai Khan: "The Wasteland, Prufrock and Other Poems" by T. S. Eliot(Original review, 1981-05-10)It seems to me that the author of 'Prufrock' and that of the Wasteland are so different as to be un-recognisable. A look at the Wasteland reveals a lot of, to me, gratuitous classical referencing for which we might like to blame Pound and while I value its novelty (whereas Prufrock reads like Kublai Khan) the Wasteland reads like deliberate pastiche.
I am always on the quest to find more good poetry because I believe poetry to be extremely underrated.
However, this was not the read that I hoped it would be for me...
I didn't really take anything from this poetry.
I like to believe poetry gives us something.
Although I did look into the historical context and could see how it was compatible, it failed to make me feel any emotion or hold a connect.
There some pretty language, but really, that was it for me.
Not my kind of poetry?
Mm. This was a read for my university course.
I remember the long, long, drawn out agony of the endless reading aloud of this poetry in my English Literature classes, and the feelings of utter and total crazed despair, frustration and boredom that made me want to stand up and scream "no more!!!!" I'm know this poetry is an accomplished literary masterpiece, but I could not understand anything or relate to anything TS Eliot wrote, though I wish it were not so.
The one star merely reflects my limited understanding and the fact that I sadly got nothing at all from this poetry, which is blighted and biased, I know, by the nightmarish memories of an 18 year old self studying this.
I wouldn't recommend just plowing through The Wasteland on your own.
If I hadn't studied it in a class in college, I'm sure I never would've understood it.I would give 5 stars to Prufrock alone, and probably 3 or 4 to the rest.
I especially loved Prufrock when I was single, b/c I think it captures the essence of male timidity.
Never a more jarring simile than this.I recommend Prufrock if you're up for a little challenge, and the Wasteland only if you're really ambitious.
If you asked me a few years ago to make a list of who I thought would be on the list of poets most influential to my own voice, I would never have selected Eliot.
I have always been a little intimidated by his intelligence.
For me, the key to gaining a deeper appreciation for Eliot was a deeper study of Anglo-Saxon poetry.
Modernists like Eliot and Auden and Pound most remind me, for all their experimentation, of those old tellers of epic tales: the attention to language and rhythm, the idea of poetic authority; even hints of what would become Eliot's theory of objective correlative are hinted at in Old English works.
Not my cup of tea. Not only did I not get the "beauty" of most poems, or their "brilliance" for that matter, but the provided interpretations seemed rather bold. How does a person come up with such ideas? Why are they accepted? E.g. I interpreted Prufrock completely different and I admit it, I like my interpretation much better! I don't understand Eliot's poetry. But at least I tried.
It’s ultimately important to read and care about this poem because, it is a work of art and a catalyst for one to not forget the past culture that is losing space, not only with time but, in the hearts and minds of us all.A great deal of symbolic ideas came from Jessie Weston’s book, From Ritual to Romance.
Simply, it’s like a quote or introduction for what your about to read.Furthermore, the epigraph Eliot chose is one of a Roman nature written around the 1st century A.D. This ancient manuscript, like The Waste Land was written in fragments, and was titled, “Satyricon” by Petronius.The story tells of an oracle, Sybil, who wished for immortality yet forgot to add the favor of youth in accordance to so many years.
Eliot as a writer established a unique voice arranging the words in every poem in such a way that it spoke directly to the alienation of the reader and let them see inside of their own hearts.For my own reading The Love Song of J.
Alfred Prufrock remains the most powerful poem in the collection for the way it manages to express the pain of wanting to speak, but withholding for fear of being thought a fool.Even if the reader is no fan of poetry this collection should still be considered because Eliot has, despite the time that has passed, managed to remain a writer worth reading and worth remembering.If the reader would like to read my full review of the poem Prufrock they can follow the link below to my site White Tower Musings:https://jsjammersmith.wordpress.com/2...
Need to read it 5 more times to understand.
Classic ! Loved re reading it after ages and still finding layers of meaning hidden in the poem . It’s dystopian in feel ,part philosophical and replete with biblical allusions.
This volume contains Eliot's first two books of Poetry and his magnum opus, "The Waste Land," with its much needed (and thankfully) introductions, foot notes and critical commentary.
Mr. Eliot's literary aspirations and ideals for great poetry are that they maintain a "comprehensive" vision and many enlightening "allusions," from history, religion and literature the world over.
He surely does this in "The Waste Land" and although I enjoyed reading his masterpiece, but finding it very difficult to follow at times, it must be read thoroughly and openly through numerous sittings to understand all the many thematic layers and enjoy a full appreciation and understanding.
there is a very small quantity of poetry volumes, and books in general that could compare to the qua
Eliot is one of my favorite poets to read. He utterly confuses me at times, but his poetry always has me looking for the deeper meaning in things. It stretches my brain almost to the point of pain at times to read Eliot (cough...the Wasteland), but I enjoy this kind of pain.
T.S. Eliot is my all-time favorite poet - I'm not sure if I've read this addition of his poems, but I've read enough to give his poetry 5 starts.The Wasteland and The Love Song of J Alfred Prufrock are the best, and everyone should read them. His use of language, ryme, and flow are incredible.
I'm still working on my comprehension of poetry. But I must say that this was pretty good, or at least, I took some from it.
"no estaba ni vivo ni muerto, y no sabía nada,mirando el alma de la luz, el silencio."

However, I will say this: because some of his poetry contains bits and pieces from other works of literature that span Western and Eastern poetry, fiction, philosophy and theology, it's great fun to deconstruct those poems to see how they were "put together." (For example, see http://eliotswasteland.tripod.com/) However, to really appreciate what Elliot was getting at, you need to reassemble these fragments.
(In his later poems he seems to retreat from the "desert" of existentialism into the shade of the Christian faith.
I hope I'm not slandering Mr. Eliot by interpreting him that way.
"Let us go then, you and I, when the evening is spread out against the sky like a patient etherized upon a table..."This collection contains two of Eliot's most famous works, The Love Song of J.
I love Eliot and his use of allusion and symbolism in poetry.
Because this volume is annotated there was a constant string of footnotes translating text and explaining references in the poems, which I often found more distracting than helpful, but which certainly does come in handy when you're trying to make sense of poetry such as this.
But really, do we have to make sense of it?
This is probably best read as part of a course so there is someone to guide you through the language and all the literary references, and it would help if you have a good command of French (and it would be even better if you also understood at least some Greek and Latin).This isn't to say that all of the poems in this collection are as inaccessible as "The Wasteland" and some of the others.
Once you've translated the French poems (or, if you're lazy, looked up a translation online), they are surprisingly accessible, and almost elegant in their simplicity.
Please read "The Love Song of J.
Never have I experienced a piece of literature that I have heard interpreted in so many different manners--this, in addition to my personal reading of Prufrock, has led me to believe that everyone can find themself in it on some level.
I am in love with this poem.
It is an anthem for artists of every medium--the struggle of the everyman who is searching for his place in the world--the hipster's conundrum: how do I wear my pants to make me look like I don't care?
Or do I care?
Re-read this again because I am reading "Constellation of Genuis" and that centers around Joyce and Eliot. Prufrock is one of my favorites but I didn't remember Wasteland or his other poems very clearly. Great stuff. My favorite is still Prufrock.
I suspect that I am missing something, but I simply didn't get it. I spent the huge bulk of the time confused and wanting the damn thing to just be over with already. Maybe someday I'll go back and try again with fresh eyes.
La tierra baldía, como su título dice, nos sumerge en una tierra vacía, de desesperanza. Y nos envuelve en una atmósfera extraña, casi gótica. El defecto que le encuentro que puede ser también virtud, es que me quedé con ganas de más.
Test post.
Tricky to read but beautiful once understood. I highly recommend getting an annotated version to fully understand the meanings. The Hollowmen is my favourite.
Not my cup of tea. I did find a liking to poem titled "Morning at the Window" & "Hysteria"
