https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34324605-confess
::: FULL REVIEW NOW POSTED ::: SPOILER-FREE ::: Exquisitely heart-wrenching and absolutely unputdownable, Confess is another unique Colleen Hoover masterpiece and one of the must-read books of this year!!From the moment I read the blurb, I was intrigued by the story!
But, true to Colleen Hoover's amazing ability to make you feel a range of nearly every single human emotion possible, just a few pages later, I was laughing right out loud.The story is about a heroine named Auburn who, by the age of 21, had already lost the most important thing in her life and was now just struggling to make ends meet.
But Confess is not too bad.One of the things that almost always bugs me about Hoover's novels is the way she characterizes her female protagonists.
There's another total douche in the picture whose attempted sexual assault (yes, another one!) of Auburn is supposed to make Owen look better.
Now, I can talk about what I did like.Firstly, aside from his good looks, Owen seemed very different from other NA love interests.
Very different.Owen was a very interesting character overall and it actually seems a shame that he was wasted on a romance novel where I didn't buy into their chemistry.
"OMG"... THIS BOOK! THE NOTEBOOK, UGLY LOVE, TFIOS, AND HOPELESS HAD A SECRET LOVE CHILD! AND THAT LOVE CHILD IS CONFESS. If you know anything about me then you know Colleen Hoover is my favorite author. If you don't know anything about me than that is pretty much all you need to know. She is the only author who has never let me down. Confess didn't let me down. I think Leah and I can both agree, the main thing we heard about this book was that it would induce tears within the first chapter.. An
When Confess starts out right into Auburn's story you're more than likely, within the first few chapters, going to be thinking the same thing I was, "Ha I got this whole thing figured out".
If you've ever read a Hoover book then you know you'd be a fool to think that (yes I just called myself a fool, because God was I).Auburn is desperate for a second job when fate shines its face on her and she get offered one by Owen.
Loved Confess! Here's a link to my booktalk: https://youtu.be/-VxNI8eh7A0
5 OMG stars Colleen Hoover is a genius. Every book of hers so different, and every one gets me right in the feels. Confess was no exception. If anything, this one hit me harder than many of her others. I can’t say it’s very often that I cry in the prologue of a book, but when you start out this way, it’s bound to happen… I loved the confessions. I thought that was such a brilliant and unique idea for a story. To base it on real confessions. Things we have that are scary to put out there. I loved
I loved the confessions.
I loved the connections between the characters, the sacrifice, and the writing.
Most of all, I love how every thing became full circle in the end.
This was a beautiful story that I won’t ever forget.
This story was real and raw and beautiful.
It wasn’t perfect, the characters were flawed, but I love that too.
I don’t want a story with perfect characters that make no mistakes.
If you’re looking for a story that will grip you from the very start, make you laugh, make you cry, and make you FEEL, pick this one up!
This is the kind of New Adult book I enjoy reading.Confess wasn’t a shallow, cheesy or overdone story; it was deep, evocative, realistic and damn hard to put down.
I even find it disrespectful for someone to be connected on Facebook, for example, when the teacher is speaking… yet, I just wasn’t able to turn off my tablet, put it aside, and continue living on without knowing what will happen to Auburn.She got to me.
Personally, I took those emotions and splashed them at the ‘‘villains’’ in the story.Something I hate with New Adult stories is when they spotlight characters that are DESPERATE for romantic love, for a relationship, for sex and would do anything to get those things.
You know that a book will haunt you for a very long time when it brings you tears from the very first pages.I finally understand the Colleen Hoover hype.She is totally worth it.   Hopefully,she has more than one fate,Owen.  Probably not one of the most popular quotes,but it touches the essence of this extremely beautiful and heartbreaking story.Fate was cruel and brutal to both Owen and Auburn,but they were given a second chance in happiness when they met.And then,they were torn apart.Auburn had
Probably not one of the most popular quotes,but it touches the essence of this extremely beautiful and heartbreaking story.Fate was cruel and brutal to both Owen and Auburn,but they were given a second chance in happiness when they met.And then,they were torn apart.Auburn had some priorities,and a relationship with Owen could jeopardize everything she fought for all these years.She silenced her heart,but it was not enough,because when she was with him,she felt like someone truly found her.
Oh, em, gee!!! FIVE STARS! Finding your heart somewhere between the truth and lies.  2 truths and a lie about Owen Owen’s dad is a lawyerOwen has a cat named OwenOwen has only 2 phone numbers in his phone 2 truths and a lie about Auburn Auburn gave Owen a drunken haircutAuburn grew up in Portland, OregonAuburn has a roommate named Emory  2 truths and a lie about Confess The horror movie 1408 is mentionedThe story is broken into 3 partsTwo states play a major role in this storyI have a confession
2 truths and a lie about Confess
The horror movie 1408 is mentionedThe story is broken into 3 partsTwo states play a major role in this storyI have a confession-> out of the 9 things mentioned above 7 are true and 2 are lies.
*lol*The dedication is was what prompted me to tell my husband about Confess: The confessions you read within this novel are true confessions, submitted anonymously by readers.
I had the same experience with this book… the concept in this book with the confessions was a brilliant idea.
Also CONFESS includes original artwork by Danny O’Connor to augment your reading experience!
I love how CoHo enhances your reading by offering more to her stories...
That – for now – is probably the extent of what I loved about this book.Now there was also a lot about the book that didn’t work for me, number 1 being I didn’t really like Auburn or Owen individually, and I never felt their romantic connection when they were a couple.
She wasn’t exactly a doormat but gosh, her indecisiveness truly frustrated me.And then there’s Auburn and Owen’s romantic connection, which I never felt in the first place and even now that I’ve finished the book their bond still feels weak to me.
No one could accuse Colleen Hoover for not being creative with every single thing she's released thus far. She always has a knack of infusing something unique to her books from poetry, to songs, to plot twist. In this book, it was art. They were beautiful. The way she used the confessions with the art was very unique. They were the best part of the book for me.Unfortunately, the rest left me underwhelmed.  I have no problem with cliches or whatever as long as I am able to relate to the character
But I wasn't impressed with the fact that she only grew a backbone AFTER she met Owen.
She wasn't sure what she wants to do or even what she likes.
She's only doing (view spoiler)[ the hair thing because of her son (hide spoiler)] but even then, her attitude was all, "Poor me, I have no talent and I suck at being a hairdresser.
I think it’s not so much the people that I don’t like, but the fact that I had to choose something I didn’t want to do.”And when Owen told her about how his art chose him, she thought...I love that answer.
I'm honestly not that big on contemporary, they usually dwell on the illusion of reality every hopeless romantic day dreams when they have a tediously long lecture or some other form of every day responsibility they couldn't spare the required attention.
So I really want to give Colleen Hoover a standing ovation for a book, that while dwells on the most perfect scenarios, quells such a compelling argument of reality, that one simply surrenders.
This was my first Colleen Hoover novel, it definitely won't be the last!!!!!finishing two painful books in one day, that has to be some new record of self torture.
*4.5*Such an emotional and stressful ride! I adore the story and romance. However, the main character, Auburn, fell a little flat for me.
I fell hard for Auburn and Owen which was clearly visible by the fact I read the entire book today.
I particularly loved the artwork included in the story and the idea behind confession inspired paintings.
The story is fairly short and the characters are fairly surface level, but the author did a great job of having me root for Owen/Auburn and disliking Trey/Lydia.
This book was also surprisingly tame for a romance novel; it almost had a YA feel to it and seemed more modest than some I've read recently, so this would be a good option for those looking for a cleaner love story.
3.75 ~ 4 OMG Stars  I love Colleen Hoover's books for so many reasons but especially for the fact that each story isn't similar to the last book she has gifted her readers.
This book isn’t like anything we have read by her and the art work/confession connection was completely BRILLANT!
Sadly, somewhere amidst the crazy brother-in-law's antics, Auburn and Owen's lack of action in so many areas and their fast fall into love (I thought we would have had more scenes of them actually together) the story went a bit downhill for me.
Fortunately in true Coho style the ending connects all areas of the plot and gifts a good sweet story in it's completion.
Attention: You can watch the 1st and 2nd episode with this link and it's free!!!! :)https://m.youtube.com/playlist?list=P...--------------OMFG please watch this trailer! So far I have watched it more than 10 times and Ryan Cooper (as Owen) & Katie Leclerc (as Auburn) looks perfect on the screen. Ahhh they did an amazing cast for this show. <3 https://m.youtube.com/watch?feature=y...---------------------GOODREADS Choice Awards 2015 - Winner of the Best Romance :)https://www.goodreads.com/
“And no one else deserves to be inside you if they can’t get there here first.”"I want you to remember how your heart reacts every time I kiss you.”I want you to remember my hands, and how they can’t stop touching you.”“And I need you to remember that anyone can make love.
I’m afraid if I listen to my heart once, I’ll never figure out how to ignore it again.” “He kisses me like he’s giving me every kiss he wishes he could have given me in the past, and every kiss he’ll wish he could give me in the future.
However, Auburn is one of the most resilient characters I have ever read and she isn’t going down without a fight.
At the beginning you read that all the confessions shared in the story are real anonymous confessions shared by readers.
So while I read this story my heart broke for these anonymous people who shared a piece of themselves.
Someone recently asked me what Confess was about and I was at a loss, because this story isn’t about one thing to me.
I wanted, no needed him to see why this book completely owned my thoughts.
They REALLY can’t be together – I am aware that that’s a highly common dilemma in new adult romance but the author works her magic here and puts a truly original spin on this and it’s completely believable and engrossing.There’s a lot of secrets here, possibly truths as yet untold, and plenty of confessions will be required to get us towards the end of the story.
I would truly love a chance to propose an expirement to my past before-i-read-this-book self.
I'd tell her to do as followed:Read the prologue which was from Auburn's pov and the first 2 chapters then go straight to the very last chapter 'five years earlier' told by Owen.BAM!A guaranteed 3 stars.The prologue wasn't particularly good but just to orient myself with what's going on.
Now the last chapter or the so-called 'twist' chapter, that was good.
Or maybe because I'd suffered through the whole book so that stood out in comparison?
4 Secretive Stars.  Auburn and Owen met when she saw a “Help Wanted” sign a decided to work for apply. Owen is an artist who paints pictures based on anonymous confessions, he had a bad past and he has a secret. Auburn also had a bad past and every day she sacrifices herself to be close with the only good part that’s left of her past. First let me tell you that the idea of introducing the paintings in the middle of the book was freaking brilliant!! Not only it helped understand Owen better, they
Owen is an artist who paints pictures based on anonymous confessions, he had a bad past and he has a secret.
Auburn also had a bad past and every day she sacrifices herself to be close with the only good part that’s left of her past.
First let me tell you that the idea of introducing the paintings in the middle of the book was freaking brilliant!!
They both had bad pasts but neither of them let those past define them.
(hide spoiler)]Love Triangle:  (view spoiler)[Not really.
(hide spoiler)]Cheating:  (view spoiler)[ Well….
(hide spoiler)]HEA: 	(view spoiler)[Yes.
One thing this book has convinced me of is Colleen Hoover's relentless ability to make even the most unrealistic of scenarios seem reasonable with her sway of writing; an ability I find both admirable and annoying. “There are people you meet that you get to know, and then there are people you meet that you already know.” There's a part towards the end of the book when the main characters themselves speculate how many times they've actually met each other, which boils down to a grand total of sev
There's a part towards the end of the book when the main characters themselves speculate how many times they've actually met each other, which boils down to a grand total of seven.
And don't even get me started on the sheer number of times Owen said he deserved her(view spoiler)[: the first time, I actually appreciated how this displayed a character that was confident about their self-worth and what they knew to be right, which isn't something you get to see too often in most contemporaries.
It absolutely pains me to once again give a CoHo book such a low rating :( Before anyone comes with a pitchfork at me, I just wanted to put it out there that I won't deny that CoHo writes beautifully and she's just one of those authors that I can expect to put out something different and unique with each read.
Sadly that was just the extent of how much I enjoyed the book because for the entire portion of the read, my emotions ranged from being baffled by these characters and mostly a whole lot of annoyance and frustration.
Compelling, fresh, heart wrenching and entirely unforgettable. “I’m struggling for more air than I even need, but my panic is setting in, burying itself in my soul and making it hard to think. The sadness feels like warmth creeping its way up my chest, creating an insurmountable pressure the closer it gets to my heart.” Bestselling author Colleen Hoover does it again. She delivers a compelling story with the power to evoke tears and laughs alike. Her trademark style emanates—both intense and eff
The sadness feels like warmth creeping its way up my chest, creating an insurmountable pressure the closer it gets to my heart.”
Confess is a story that starts with a chance encounter and then twines in a way that seems destined and significant.
Words hide secrets and confessions bleed off pages as Owen and Auburn find their way to each other, but not before loss furtively yields to new beginnings.
Both Auburn and Owen have secrets they bear, confessions they bury.
“Some secrets should never turn into confessions.
Colleen Hoover’s trademark mix of humor and heart.
*****FOUR STARS*****{BR with Dee, Mel and Sharon} "I'll love you forever. Even when I can't."  This is a story about a love that is lost and a love that is found. Auburn suffered a great loss when she was only 15 years old. Five years later, she finds herself living in a city, far from her family and dealing with problems that most 21 year old women would find impossible to handle.Owen Mason Gentry, OMG, is a local artist whose paintings are based upon anonymous peoples' confessions that he rece
He and Auburn meet one day when she is passing by his studio and starts reading the different confessions that are taped on his windows.
He ends up offering her a job for the night, and there is an instant attraction between the two.This is definitely not an "Insta-Love" story, and it will have you trying to figure out the secrets that both Owen and Auburn are keeping from each other.
I did predict one of Owen's secrets but the rest came as a surprise to me.I usually am over the moon in love with COHO's books, but I don't know why this one just didn't do it for me.
I love how Colleen weaves different forms of art together, and the artwork in this book is stunning.
I can always count on her to create phenomenal stories, and each experience is simply mesmerizing and unique.
Within the first few pages, I had already shed a few tears, and I knew, Confess was going to be a great read.
They have both experienced so much heartbreak, they are selfless, relatable and simply loveable.
I'm not going to go into the plot.
My main issue was (view spoiler)[Trey.
(hide spoiler)].
**For anyone interested in the art from the book Danny O'Connor["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
I find this story so brilliant, the confessions from different people which become paintings and the fact that there were pictures of the paintings inside the book make it even more captivating!The prologue and the ending was intense and I cried while I was reading.The story:Auburn is living in Texas and she needs a second job.
Owen is the owner and the artist who creates his paintings from Confessions which people leave in his studio.We see the attraction between them but Auburn knows that it isn't the time for a relationship because there is someone else who cares for him a lot...I will not say what exactly he is to her because if I say it's a spoiler...
“I’ll love you forever. Even when I can’t” Okay, this is hands-down the best Colleen Hoover book I have ever read, and I can’t stop crying!I loved the characters in this book. Auburn was so sweet, and tried so hard even when the odds were stacked against her, and Owen went above and beyond the call of duty to help his father, even when his father didn’t thank him for it. "It's just such a long walk from work to home, and long walks make me contemplate my life, and my life makes me cry." I loved
Okay, this is hands-down the best Colleen Hoover book I have ever read, and I can’t stop crying!I loved the characters in this book.
"It's just such a long walk from work to home, and long walks make me contemplate my life, and my life makes me cry."
This book surprised me more than once, and it was such a pleasure to read!
"It's been a long time since I've wanted someone to kiss me.Or maybe it's just been a long time since I've allowed myself to feel this way."
It was so emotional, and put the whole book in perspective, and I just loved it.
I really liked this book!
I only took one star from it because Owen had some weird issues with the word "deserve".
I didn't dig the whole: You deserve me.
I deserve you.
It made me cringe.
BUT everything else was perfect!
The last chapter (the one that was 5 years ago) almost made me cry, I think I shed a little tear or two, it was beautiful.
Auburn was a great female protagonist, I didn't really like Colleen's protagonist in her last two books (Tate in Ugly Love and Sydney in Maybe Someday, ugh, I want to punch them both), but Auburn I like, she's brave and funny and loving.I'm still waiting for Colleen to write a book that outstands her first books.
«I laugh, and the tenderness that enters his eyes at the sound of my laughter makes me realize that this is what I want. Selflessness. It should be the basis of every relationship. If a person truly cares about you, they’ll get more pleasure from the way they make you feel, rather than the way you make them feel.» In this book, art meets confessions. Kudos to this amazing artist, Danny O' Connor who did all the paintings for this book (http://docart.bigcartel.com). And kudos to Mrs. Hoover for
Possibly from the endless river of tears that's running down my face as I'm writing this review because I'm too hang up on the emotions and thoughts this book instilled in my heart, in my soul.
Owen is so fascinated by the interest Auburn shows in his paintings and how she admires and understand and feels his art.
She knows how to write and she knows how to express feelings and emotions in the best possible way.
Confess is told in two points of views, Auburn, who lost the love of her life when she was only 15 and now at the age of 20 she desperately needs a job, which leads her to Owen, a young artist who is looking for an assistant.
Colleen Hoover knows how to construct beautiful sentences and because of that I was blinded for the first half of the book into believing I loved it.
While I didn’t like this book I do still love her writing but this book just fell short for me.
3.5 Stars!  "Tell me something about yourself that no one else knows."  This wasn't my favorite CoHo read. I loved the first half. Coho can tell the hell out of a story. She sucks you in. Strings you along. Leaves you begging for more. I wanted more. I hated the position Auburn was in and the choices she was forced to make.  "There are people you meet that you get to know, then there are people you meet that already know."  I wish Owen and Auburn had spent more time together as a couple. I wish
This wasn't my favorite CoHo read.
I loved the first half.
Coho can tell the hell out of a story.
I wish Owen and Auburn had spent more time together as a couple.
I wish Trey would get run over by a truck.
I wish there hadn't been so much drama in the last half.
Sometimes I wished Auburn had made different choices.
But I love that CoHo's stories all come full circle.
Even when I can't.""I'll love you forever.
Even when I can't.""I'll love you forever.
In the end I liked it but I didn't love it.
