https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/528683.Now_and_Forever
Taip pat viena ausim buvau nugirdusi, jog Steel yra lyginama su Jodi Picoult, o kaip tik tokios knygos man ir norėjusi.
Darbo reikalais Džekė labai daug keliauja, o Janas tokias dienas išnaudoja nereikšmingiems meilės romanas.
Bet Džekė apie tai žino ir per daug į galvą neimą - jie vienas kitą myli, dievina ir tai svarbiausia.
jie praneša merginai, jog jos vyras sulaikytas ir yra kaltinamas išprievartavimu bei smurto prieš moterį panaudojimu.
Nenoriu apie autorę spręsti iš vienos knygos (nes jie reiktų - lanku bibliotekoj tas lentynas apeičiau), tad galbūt kada nors gyvenime perskaitysiu kokią kitą jos knygą.
parece que todo marcha bien, pero nuevamente ella nos da un giro.
De pronto, parecía que todo iba color de rosa, pero una mujer desconocida lo acusa de haberla violado.
Ian se ganaba la vida como escritor, y Jessica tenía una herencia y dirigía una boutique.
(view spoiler)[ Van varios libros de ella en donde me encuentro con un posible romance y digo: se va a quedar con él.
Además que Geoffrey no terminaba de convencerme mucho  (hide spoiler)].es una novela entretenida, no exageradamente dramática, pero sigo agradeciendo que no tenga una temática rosa.
This book was such a let down!
I couldnt believe the story line.
A handsome guy is only 10 hours away from meeting his beautiful wife whom he 'loves' from the bottom of his heart.
And he cheats on her?
God. To top it all, his wife is understanding.
Damn!
Nothing can justify cheating and her being casual about it is so unacceptable.
The rest of the story was too cliched and boring.
And all too predictable.
I did not enjoy the book and i just wanted to finish it for the heck of it.
I dont even think this should be featured in Goodreads..
This is a story where I had a hard time putting the book down. She still hashes and rehashes some of the scenes in the book (although she does add some extra plot) and I find this tiresome. All in all, I enjoyed the book and would recommend it.
This book was awesome! One of my favorites of DS! It is about a women who is happily married...or so she thought. Her husband cheats on her while out of town and the women accuses him of rape and he is put in prison. It is a wonderful story of love, hurt and betrayl...I loved it!
wow. I know this was from the 70's but it amazed me at how horrid the main characters were. This book did not hold up over time.
It's the only Danielle Steel novel I've ever read, as she is not my cup of tea.Okay, so do I think it's a good book?
No, but then I don't think I'd think any novel of Danielle Steel's is good.My purpose in writing this review is twofold: First, I knew before looking that this novel would get some negative reviews, and get some panties all in a wad, because "There's no excuse for cheating" and "They didn't really love each other because he cheated." I get so impatient with this attitude.
a loving husband, a successful business and blissfully happy then it all fell around her ears when he is arrested for suspected rape and after a harrowing trial is found guilty and sentenced to jail for a minimum of four years with possible release after one can she survive - and more importantly, does she want to?
she finds an invaluable friend in ariana who pulls her back from the brink and ariana's mother forces her to really look at her life and finally make decisions for herself unusual method or writing - narrative followed by what that person really thought what really spoilt it for me was that i was totally unable to relate to jessica and would certainly not want her as a friend.
There in the other side in jail Ian writes a book and sells it and gets a lot of money from it and he pays back Jessica everything.Jessica is trying to meet new guys and is trying to forget Ian as hard as possible.
She goes on a date with a guy, and he proposes her and he takes her home to make love with her,she stops him and realizes that this is all wrong and she misses Ian. She wants him back desperately.She goes back to the jail and sees Ian after years.
I adore Danielle Steel's writing style. It just wins me over.But the story went in a weird direction and I wasn't taking an interest in that. But overall, it was really good.At first, I really thought it was going to be a cute and sweet love story. It was at first. But then it turns wrong and I was sitting on my bed, shaking my book...NOOOOOOO with every twist and turn.Now I have so many more books of her in my bedroom sitting on my bed. I'm really taking a liking to this author!
It was just ok. Nothing really thrilling but it didn't bore me to tears. I did however keep forgetting that this is one of her older novels from the late 70's and every time she wrote about the main lady Jessica in the book smoking everywhere, including a court house, it made me pause for a minute and think... what! Once I got my mind wrapped around the time period, it was a decent read.
I love Danielle Steel novels and own them all thanks to my mother in law, who buys them and then passes them to me. This is one I read once and never again. If this is the only Steel novel you've read, do not judge the rest of her books by some of her early work. She has so many wonderful characters and amazing stories to tell, this just isn't one of them for me.
I did not find this book interesting at all. I was totally bored reading it to the end, hoping it would get better, no such luck.
What a disappointment from one of my favorite authors. I wanted to keep kicking the heroine in the butt. How naive can she be??
the first 1 i read of her's...itzz da best!!makes u trust nd blv on da very special person in urlife!!
After a good woman i decided to read another book "Now and Forever" by Danielle steel because the last book was tearful, adventurous and fully caught my attention but as to this book i am not satisfied. It rather felt like a drag of one story. I had to sift pages. Readers like unpredictable story, this one is very much predictable.I must say, it's better not to read this as there are plenty of other best novels written by same author, This one is time consuming.
It's very difficult to read a book when you feel most of the characters are deplorable. That is the case with this book. The characters are just terrible people. It's an older book so that may also be an issue. The characters are very 80's. Ms. Steel's use of the expression chrissake is heavy in the book. It just seems unnecessary.
This was very very good, I have read this book twice now. I loved the story of Ian and Jessica, and how their once seemingly perfect life was so flawed, and how they almost paid a huge price for one mistake....It tells the story of how a couple finds out what true love really is......This is one of Danielle Steele's earlier books and it is excellent!
I couldn't get into this book like I usually do with the usual DS book. I couldn't connect with either characters, if that makes any sense. At times, I found myself putting down the book and picking it up again trying to call in love with it, yet I couldn't.
It was awful. Hated every minute of reading it. Was hoping it would get better, but it didn’t. Definitely not a fan of her early work.
loved this - the ending was great!
Now and ForeverWhat can you say about DS that hasn't already been said. Her writing is wonderful, and you get lost in her words. Great book. Can't wait for the next!!
This was a bit predictable and a little bit frustrating.
Me ha resultado un libro muy típico. No me ha sorprendido mucho y para lo largo que es no ocurre nada demasiado interesante. Para pasar el rato no está mal, pero no es de mis mejores lecturas.
Waited for a suspicion story.. got tired..lost me in the middle.. not the ending I expected
A little slower than most of her books and small print.
I thought the book was good. I thought it was a little dragged out though.
Couldn't wait for each new Danielle Steel book.
Es increíble que una calumnia le joda la vida otros, pero más increíble como la protagonista se sobrepone a todo y silla su lado pese a todo.
Loved it, great book. Most of Danielle steel books I love. Great story.
