https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8266887-a-woman-in-the-polar-night
‘’Νο, the Arctic does not yield its secret for the price of a ship’s ticket. You must live through the long night, the storms, and the destruction of human pride. You must have gazed in the deadness of all things to grasp their livingness. In the return of light, in the magic of the ice, in the life-truths of animals obsessed in the wilderness...lies the secret of the Arctic and the overpowering beauty of its lands.’’ I live in a country where the sun always finds a way to shine its light on us
In the return of light, in the magic of the ice, in the life-truths of animals obsessed in the wilderness...lies the secret of the Arctic and the overpowering beauty of its lands.’’
Still, nothing and noone can possibly prepare you for the circumstances Christiane Ritter describes in her beautiful book.What a striking title...A beautiful cover and a fascinating woman who, despite all the odds, defied conventions, ignored every risk and followed her husband to an expedition in Svalbard, right in the heart of the Arctic.
Her account of the year she spent in Svalbard is a beautiful homage to the special landscape of the Arctic, a land that I often call ‘’a planet within a planet’’.
The young woman in this story is married to a man that is a hunter/trapper who takes expeditions to the Artic and lives in a hut on the small island of Spitsbergen.
But I once spent the night in a jungle with a wet wool blanket, and it kept me warm, so maybe feather beds are like that, still warm when damp.One of the first things her husband does when she gets there is to leave her alone for 12 days while he goes hunting with his male friend who also lives with them.
The end result of her adventure was her slim but riveting memoir, A Woman in the Polar Night.
(Ritter herself lived to the remarkable age of 103, dying in 2000.) Michelle Paver drew upon Ritter's book for her Arctic ghost story, Dark Matter.
But in time she comes to appreciate the nature of the Arctic, and to depend on it for her very survival.
It is no wonder Michelle Paver set her ghost story in the Arctic.
In real-life, Ritter never returned to the Arctic.
But luckily for readers she penned her extremely readable and compelling memoir, A Woman in the Polar Night.
This is one great tribute to the uniqueness of the Arctic and the power of living simply. In 1934, the author spent a year in Spitsbergen Island, several hundred miles north of Norway in the Arctic. In a tiny hut shared with her husband and a young trapper they endure the cold, hunger and isolation with great love of their little world. While the life is harsh and daunting, the author reflects on how a simple life is so much better than the complexity of modernity and on the beauty of the Arctic landscape.
I am exhilarated after reading this memoir of the author's one year living in Spitsbergen Island, several hundred miles north of Norway in the Arctic.
They told of journeys by water and over ice, of the animals and the fascination of the wilderness, of the strange light over the landscape, of the strange illumination of one’s own self in the remoteness of the polar night.
My thought is living in the polar night today would remove one from actually experiencing it the deep way that Chrissie, as she was called by her husband did.
It proves, once again, that a few books written decades ago are not only relevant today but have a rare sustaining power to inspire and move us.
She lets us imagine the play of endless light, receding sunlight, and 24 hour darkness for months at a time and the effect it has on humans.
She lets us worry they won't be able to sustain themselves through the four month darkness living off only the stored supplies.
We can hear the raging storms swirling for weeks at a time piling snow up and over their hut.
Bellissimo resoconto di un anno passato a Spitsbergen, un'isola norvegese del Circolo Polare Artico.
Christiane Ritter ha dimostrato una notevole forza di spirito nel sopravvivere in un capanno con la sola compagnia del marito e di un cacciatore del luogo.
Una fatica che l'ha ricompensata,in quanto non aver avuto luce naturale per mesi, essere stata sola molto spesso e l'aver quasi rischiato la follia per il troppo pensare le ha dato una prospettiva totalmente diversa nell'osservare il mondo quando, alla fine, la vita ritorna finalmente a Spitsbergen.Le bellissime descrizioni della notte che non finisce mai, mai lunghe e mai ripetitive, incantano letteralmente.
E fanno venire voglia di visitare quei posti 'a Sud del nulla' proprio a me, che sono una freddolosa...
And away she goes, leaving behind her small daughter, and travels to Svalbard, a small island that touches the 80th parallel, far north in the Arctic Ocean.
She brings to life so vividly the stark landscape of this tiny Arctic island and the hardships she endures.
I was also amazed by how well she was able to hear and see in the clear air of the Arctic; she could hear the hunters talking even though they were miles away on one of their trips.I am amazed at how well and gracefully Ritter endured the hardships of an Arctic winter.
It felt almost surreal, reading about Christiane's life in Svalbard for one year, the beauty of the nature, harsh environment, and the difficult conditions she had to encounter.
As hard as it was for her, her memoir of this time is light and extremely poetic.
I am glad I found this gem while preparing for my own trip to Svalbard, at the very edge of the Polar night but of course in the comfort of the modern world, not as Christiane saw it in the thirties of the last century.
Some quotes I don't want to forget:"And suddenly I realise that humanity is suffering from a severe vitamin deficiency because it cannot draw its strength directly from nature, eternally young and eternally true" (176)."Around us the frozen sea, above us the deep sky full of returning birds.
In the return of light, in the magic of the ice, in the life-rhythm of the animals observed in the wilderness, in the natural laws of all being, revealed here in their completeness, lies the secret of the Arctic and the overpowering beauty of its lands" (214).What a pity this was Ritter's only publication...
Whenever anything went wrong in our European home, a short circuit, a burst pipe, or even if the rent was raised, he would always say that nothing like that could happen in a hut in the Arctic." So begins this account of one woman's year in the arctic.
As a child, I had few worse experiences than boy scout Klondike camping trips.
They were miserable experiences full of long, hallucinated nights and bleak days.
But this book really made me want to head north for a year and experience the awesome beauty of nature where life is most inhospitable.

Christiane Ritter got used to the hunting. I never did!But this is worth reading for the rare glimpse into Arctic life and Ritter's spare, luminous prose. She has some compelling insights.
Roman documentaire intéressant à découvrir. Le seul reproche que je lui ferai c'est que j'ai trouvé les personnages peu attachés l'un à l'autre et cela m'a déconcertée tout au long de ma lecture. Par contre, la description de la vie dans l'Arctique ainsi que celles sur les paysages sont très impressionnants.
I loved the ambivalence with which she describes the wild arctic nature.
She remarks that a connection to nature brings a certain serenity (as does connection to our work.) But on the other hand she describes being alone in the wild as a harrowing experience that can drive men crazy (and at the very least brings us to cling to the comfort of humanity and companionship when we have it).
I also loved the way she described the scenes with such imagery.
Am trying now to write an essay on housework and this book.
Don't get me wrong: it's not a book that's ABOUT housewifery (yes, that's a word, says me), but that's what it's causing me to think of: the roles we step into, the roles we want or think we want to step into, and what it means when you strip away absolutely everything else and focus those roles and the attendant relationships down to a 10 X 10 hut in the middle of nowhere.
I've recently read Dark Matter by Michelle Paver, and this little book was obviously her main source of research material for life on Spitsbergen (Svalbard) during a polar winter.
Enduring NightThis is a little book written by a German woman who travels to Svalsbard to winter with her husband, a hunter/explorer.
It's winter here, snowing, and I live in an unheated house.
It only adds to the ambience of reading this book.
I don't often read non-fiction, but this book could easily be fiction it seems so incredible that anyone could do what this woman did.
I was moved to read this book following Michelle Pavers' Dark Matter.
Not the dark, not the cold, not the food or the bears - no - she shares with us her passion and boundless joy in this inhospitable place - such that I, uncomfortable in much less than 30C, felt quite certain there was nothing I wished to do more this winter than spend it in the wild and woolly wastes of North Norway!She has a mild obsession with vitamins, sufficient to provoke me to consult Professor Google on the topic.
“A Woman in the Polar Night,” is a book that enters your psyche and leaves an imaginary inukshuk as a portal entry, filling you with connectedness and contentment. Ritter’s writing is spare, clean, and filled with sensory detail that is both wondrous and ineffable. Beautiful lines and passages; “Wijde Bay opens up before us. Arrestingly beautiful, it dreams away its remote untouched existence in quiet and sunshine.” “Perhaps they become clairvoyant, the animals, as the darkness grows, and they s
“A Woman in the Polar Night,” is a book that enters your psyche and leaves an imaginary inukshuk as a portal entry, filling you with connectedness and contentment.
Ritter’s writing is spare, clean, and filled with sensory detail that is both wondrous and ineffable.
Arrestingly beautiful, it dreams away its remote untouched existence in quiet and sunshine.”	“Perhaps they become clairvoyant, the animals, as the darkness grows, and they see the true face of men?”	“I am conscious of the immense solitude around me.
The translation to English by Jane Degras, reads like poetry as she describes the breathtaking beauty of this world.
But, one cannot help but wonder if I would end up feeling like Mrs. Ritter as she wrote, "It is true that in the encyclopedias they can read about the wonders of the polar world, but they have no idea that under this radiant heaven a man's spirit is also calm, clear, and radiant." She says this is different ways throughout the book.
Still, it is something I will probably only read about.
This author almost makes me want to spend some time in the Arctic. Her description of one year on Svalbard (which she calls Spitsbergen) - really, really far north - are somehow both straightforward and romantically descriptive at the same time.
This memoir is over 70 years old, but it is amazing. I HIGHLY recommend it and think it is very timely because it shows us what we are losing to climate change. You can't go wrong with this gem, written by an artist who is also a stellar writer. http://wp.me/p28JYl-2fn
Fascinating getting a glimpse of the day to day reality of living in a tiny snowbound hut in the arctic, often on your own for days at a time and what a huge effect it has on people who attempt it.

The barren landscape ‘far and wide not a tree or shrub, everything grey and bare and stony’ is desolate and Christiane has to quickly adapt to the bleak and comfortless surroundings, and as she does, she starts to see beauty – in the ethereal light of the polar sky, in the furious storms, in the ‘mighty jagged arches and towers of ice’ and most of all, in her interactions with the wild and mighty animals who have lived on Spitsbergen since before the Vikings hunted there - the polar bears and seals, the reindeer and arctic foxes.
Christiane writes compellingly as the visual artist she was, finding wonder and beauty in the barren and hostile polar north that she grew to love.
I spent two weeks on board a tall ship in Svalbard this summer, marveling at the sapphire blue skies, the midnight sun, the glaciers, the wildlife, the serenity.
And I have spent every day since longing to return there.
A Woman in the Polar Night was recommended to be by a shipmate.
The author describes her year in Svalbard in such stunning detail, every description coming to life so vividly.
I highly recommend this book to anyone who wants an easy read of what life is like in the high Arctic.
And now I'm going to look into flights to Svalbard in October...
I love experiencing ice, snow, and majestic nature through books. Shackleton, books on Mount Everest or the Dyatlov Pass… And I enjoyed seeing Spitsbergen through Christiane Ritter’s eyes. Her little black and white drawings or watercolor paintings are very cute, and I envied her the experience of living there for a few months. However, from today’s point of view she’s an old-fashioned woman which shines through in this book. And she’s simply not a powerful author. I found her style rather tedious at times. She’s also a very religious woman, a sentiment I don’t share.
Loved this book. Borrowed it from library and have tried to buy my own copy but it's out of print in English. Very rarely read the same book twice but would settle back into this one again no problem.
Definitiv ein beeindruckender Erlebnisbericht. Ich bewundere diese starke Frau. Ich hätte ihr allerdings etwas mehr Erzähltalent gewünscht. Vielleicht lässt sich aber etwas so gewaltiges auch einfach nur schwer in Worte fassen.
A very isolated community of trappers and hunters, living around a day's ski away from each other (if the weather is kindly) puts running out of supplies into a rather dangerous perspective.Aspects of Christine Ritter's story were not really touched on, but did leave me wondering - she and Hermann had a child who was left behind in Austria (age not mentioned) whilst she was away for the year.Very little of a personal nature is revealed in this book, - for example, she discovered when she came, as arranged, to the Arctic, that she would be sharing the small and primitive hut for most of the year not just with her husband, but with a friend of his, another hunter trapper.
