https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/127823.The_Icebound_Land
Will, the main character, is captured by the Skandians along with his friend, Evanlyn, in a big war in the previous book.
Meanwhile, Will's mentor, Halt, has sworn to save him from the Skandians, but the Ranger Corps forces him to stay back.
Halt is determined to get to Skandia quickly, so he takes the quickest route: Gallica.
In Gallica, Horace and Halt tried to go as fast as they could, but they were stopped by a lot of inexperienced knights.
Horace, being a warrior apprentice, takes on the fake name "The Oakleaf Knight".
It's getting kind of repetitive to tag all of these books with "pure awesomeness," but...
Okay, so Horace is pretty much my second favorite character (after Halt, of course!).
And to think he was a bully at the beginning of book 1!!!!Epic moment: (view spoiler)[Halt's battle against Deparnieux.
:( The first book had four cuss words, the second two, and then this one...
It was actually handled very well and was portrayed in a negative light, but it's still something you should be aware of before reading this.Overall, I really enjoyed this story, and I'm looking forward to book four!
Contains minor spoilers.3.5 starsI know that I've said this a couple of times already but it deserves repeating: I am enjoying this series so much more than I would have ever expected.
The characters are some of my favourites already.
It was also great to see Evanlyn step up towards the end of the book, but I sorely missed Will at times.
His wit bought an extra something to the book, and while Halt's teasing of Horace left me in chuckles, it just wasn't the same and Halt and Will's banter.
I'm so glad that I picked up this series.
And I continue my reading of the Ranger's Apprentice series.
I'm pretty sure this one was the last book I had read during my first go at the series.The story took a bit of a darker turn in this book but exciting nonetheless.I found it interesting how the author turned more and more away from a single POV story during this book.
We learn more about Halt and Horace, Evenlyn and even the king.
We also learn a lot more about the world this story is set in.All in all a worthy continuation.
2.5 stars- it was OK.As captivating as they were, if the 200+ pages of this book had been summarized into a chapter or two and had been merged with the previous or next installment of the series, I would have liked it much more.
But the plot just doesn't deserve a whole book of the series to itself.
And I understand that Flanagan was merely giving the readers a chance to identify with Evanlyn, but he didn't have to cut Will out of the action do so.
The series is called the Ranger's Apprentice after all, so it should be more about the Ranger's Apprentice.
In this installment Will and Evanlyn have been taken by the Skandian Jarl Weak back to his homeland to be sold as slaves.
Horace and Halt were a fun team, although not as entertaining as Halt and Will often are.
Their adventures and dedication to Will were a nice touch to the story and we got to see quite a bit of development in both of them.
She's definitely a strong woman and adds a lot to the story.
I'm excited to pick up the next installment and continue on with this story.
This book was so captivating I read it in two days. The third in John Flanagan's 'Ranger's Apprentice' series 'Icebound Land' takes up where 'Burning Bridge' left off in a cliffhanger ending and follows Halt and Horace as they travel to Skandia to rescue Will and the princess. Well to say the least I absolutely loved this book. So exciting and fast paced and vivid and funny and oh man I just LOVED IT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I can't wait to read the next few and move on to John's 'Brotherband Chronicles"
this book was so good with tons of twists.
Reread Jan 2017. They are growing up so fast and I love them
These books are so quick and easy to read, while there is still a lot of action and other things happening. I really enjoy the friendship between Will, Horace and Evanlynn!
7/10. This book was good, but it wasn't as good as the first two and many others in the series. It was a little more slow paced and just not quite as engaging. But it was still good, I still never got bored, which is the main thing. The writing style of these books make them interesting and entertaining no matter what's happening.
Three down 9 to go. The book was good but not great. This book comprises of journey and survival of two parties. Horace and halt, will and Cassandra aka evanlyn.The main purpose of this book is to lay the framework for the next one. And it does a good work in that.
Very good.
4.8 stars!!!!
My love and admiration for Halt increased throughout the whole book as I read all the sacrifices he made in order to rescue Will; purposely publicly insulting King Duncan, and hoping the resulting punishment would be banishment, although it could have resulted in death; being expelled from the Ranger Corps and having to hand over his treasured silver oakleaf.....*SOB* aaaahhhh my heart broke for him!; and all those times when he so easily could have left Horace and continued on in his search but he didn't!
And the only reason for me still continuing to read this series is because I promised my little brother (which was a mistake)..
Throughout the whole book, almost nothing happens.
You got the story line of Halt and Horace, who go through Gallica while defeating some not-so-chivalrous knights.
And the other story line is of Evelyn and Will who get kidnapped, get sold as slaves and after that manage to escape.
There is no real pace in the book and the events that do happen are only minor and boring.
Sorry if this comes over as a bit harsh, but I'm just a little negative over this book.
This was better than the second book.
No stupid scenes like what we get with Horace towards the end of book 2.
(Although I don't buy that people didn't realize what Halt was up to at the beginning of the book - it couldn't have been more obvious).
I loved the direction this book went - it was not what I was expecting, and it was captivating.
What has really kept me interested in these books are the characters.
Maybe I don't read enough youth/teen fiction, but I feel like that is a rarity these days.
On to the next book!
This really is a great kids series. My 12 year old loves it as much as he did the first time we listened to it 4 years ago.
a captivating book that I could not put down. I loved everything about it except for the language.
To je nostalgie, zas se k tomu vrátit ♥I přes pomalejší prostředek mě to bavilo a kniha si podle mého zaslouží 4/5*Nemůžu se dočkat dalšího dílu!http://marky-books.blogspot.cz/2018/0...
Halt has sworn to rescue Will, and he will do anything to keep his promise—even defy his King.Expelled from the Rangers he has served so loyally, Halt is joined by Will’s friend Horace as he travels toward Skandia.
The first two books focus on Will's developing love and loyalty to his mentor and friends, but in this installment, the loyalty is returned.
Halt purposefully gives up what he loves, dishonors his country and defies his beloved Ranger Corp, to save his apprentice.
Horace bravely leaves his training and his home to save his friend.
Grr.)This book is about Halt (who I really want to start calling Logan, but I'll restrain myself) and Horace trying to track down Evanlyn and Will, and about Evanlyn and Will trying to survive their kidnapping.
There's a lot of telling instead of showing in this one.
It's not the greatest, but it's not too bad either.Also, because of the showing instead of telling, I don't like Evanlyn.
I don't want her dead hate her, but I really wish she didn't have as much page time.14+ for non-consensual drug addiction, mild language, and violence.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book. The characters are great and I loved the story. It broke my heart on multiple occasions because of Will and Evanlyn's situation. The only thing that I didn't like was that the whole gang wasn't together!!! And that's to no fault of writing or anything, just a personal preference. Love the writing and I'm gushing at this point. So.... read this.
3.5 out of 5 stars. This felt more of a filler book to me, and while I did enjoy it, nobody really made any progress. Kind of disappointing, but I will continue in with the series- still fantastic books. More detailed review to come, as I need to fall back into my old schedule.
I liked this book and would like to give it 3 1/2 stars. My main hesitation in not giving it more stars is bc this book goes on location and characters are separated. I still liked it, but miss all the characters left "at home."
A fantastic continuance of the series, which ends on a major cliffhanger leading directly into the next book.
This book wasn't the best, but not the worst.Will has been takenHalt was awakenedHe wanted to get him backNo matter who he had to attack
not as good as the first 2 a bit boring at times, but i still want to read the next one.i'm really starting to like all the characters and i'm intrested to know what happens next.
Sice me Evanlyn stvala, ale jinak jsem si s hrdiny tohoto pribehu uzila pekne odpoledne a vecer. A taky nesel net. :D
Everything is falling in place, in places where they should be. The power of friendship is remarkably strong.
