https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/393392.Clochemerle
Five stars for satire, four 1/2 for humor.I first read this book about 40 years ago when I lived in Australia for three years.
At the time the BBC had produced a series from the story, which I saw (at least in part) on TV there.The book is a very biting satire on all aspects of French provincial life in the early decades of the 20th century.
The first perhaps 2/3 of the book is uproariously funny.
That book must be so far from this one in its tone that their being by the same author seems almost impossible!
It's satirical, descriptive, evokes wonderful thoughts but it's the mayor who brings particular interest to this village.Monsieur le Maire, Barthélemy Piéchut wants to have a building constructed:“Yes a building - and a useful one too, from the point of view of public health as well as public morals.
But when the mayor announced that he wanted to have a urinal constructed opposite the church, and paid for at the town’s expense there was, of course, a public outcry.Curé Ponosse is not amused.This is Rabelaisian satire at its best.
So milk-white was her flesh, so silky its texture, that the sight of it the men of Clochemerle grew hoarse of speech and were overcome by feelings of recklessness and desperation."But lest it be said that this author is capable of hyperbolizing Beauty alone (as one may complain that women in novels are so stereotyped, only the beautiful ones are made to inhabit them, no normal women at all!), here the author revels in the same enthusiastic introduction of Judith Tourmignon's exact opposite, eliciting the same silent cackle from the heart:"Enter Justine Putet, of whom it is now time to speak.
Е, така се случва.Запленен от красотата на природата в Божоле и легендите за сладостно упойващия вкус на божолезко вино, след живописните лъкатуши на пътя читателят внезапно попада на главната улица на Клошмерл и бива запознат не само с кадастралния му план, а по традиция и с най-важните персони на всеки провинциален градец – кмета, даскала и попа.„Читателят трябва да има предвид, че се намираме в сърцето на Божоле, край на хубавото вино, което се плъзга лесно по гърлото, но е коварно за главата – то разпалва изведнъж красноречието и диктува възклицанията и предизвикателствата.“Персонажите тук са неповторими, кипящи и сладостно тръпчиви като божолезко вино.
Ben presto l'ameno luogo si divide in due fazioni, i provespasiani e i controvespasiani, capeggiati questi da Giustina Putet, beghina e zittella che vive come un affronto l'uso del vespasiano da parte dei clochemerlini, non schiodandosi però mai dalle finestre ove si sorbisce, da vera martire, le operazioni aduse in quel luogo, non disdegnando poi di alzar su una vera guerriglia urbana per abbattere l'ignominioso orpello, mettendo in mezzo sindaco, prete, notabili e facendo un putiferio mai visto a Clochemerle che culmina con botte da orbi in chiesa, il giorno del sacro patrono.
The lusty young men, when the urinal was occupé, thought nothing of wagging their wienies at the desiccated spinster, sending her off on a crusade that led to the breakage of the statue of the town's patron saint, the insult by a barrage of ripe tomatoes against a young nobleman, the occupation of the town by the military, and France's abrupt departure from the Disarmament Conference of 1923.
Човек трябваше да се изтегне зад затворените капаци в прохладните, застлани с плочи помещения, които миришеха на плодове и козе сирене, и да му удари една дрямка след храна, като предварително постави в кофа вода, извадена от кладенеца, нещо за изплакване на устата, когато се събуди.Най-сетне това беше време, което правеше непонятни болестите, катастрофите, земетресенията, края на света, лошия гроздобер, време, при което човек можеше да спи спокойно и на двете си уши.
Humoristickou knížku, která mi nesedne stylem humoru, zpravidla odkládám nepřečtenou/nedočtenou. To je třeba osud Osudů dobrého vojáka Švejka, který mi dosud nebyl dost dobrý, abych se do něj pustila. Zvonokosy, ten útrpně líně vyprávěný příběh s banální zápletkou a sexistickým podáním, by na tom nebyly jinak, nebýt bez sebemenších pochyb výborného překladu pana Zaorálka. Těmi třemi stovkami stránek jsem se pročetla čistě z úcty k němu. A jemu též patří ta jedna hvězdička v hodnocení navíc.
Genialny preklad a vyborne nacitana kniha v podani pana Karola Machatu, v lubozvucnej slovencine. Povabne pribehy odohravajuce sa v malej francuzskej dedinke, plnej zabavnych postaviciek - od ocarujucich paniciek po vyschnute stare panny, od miestnych frajerov po plesnivych uradnickov. Kniha plna laskaveho, absurdneho humoru. Skoda, ze toho nebolo viac, mozno po tomto siahnem i v podobe klasickej knihy.
Je n'ai pas envie de le terminer, je voudrai faire durer le plaisir!Quelle surprise que ce roman, c'est mon chum qui me l'avait donné il y a deux ans et il attendait dans ma liste de livre à lire.
C'est un livre plein de prejugés sur les gens, sur les femmes, sur la politique, la religion, bref sur à peu près tout ce que vous pouvez imaginer mais, malgré celà, quel fin observateur de la nature humaine que Gabriel Chevalier!
Quel plaisir fou j'ai eu à lire ce roman!
Un pur plaisir à découvrir!
Don Camillo in Burgundy.I was like 10 years old when I read this. You can imagine the mirth (read: guffaws) of a (male) pre-teener, reading the story of a mayor who wants to build a urinal against the parish church, and the plotting between parish priest and conservative parishioners!I want to read it again. Might not be quite so funny now, tho.
The church is 'wedged in between two blind alleys' and it was at the opening of one of these alleys that Piéchut proposed the urinal should be placed.
Looking out on the urinal will be the Curé Ponosse from his classroom and Justine Putet, the most devout inhabitant of the town.
Up to this point Chevallier has expertly ramped up the tensions between the characters but I feel he loses control of the story a bit from hereon, especially when he switches the focus of the story to Paris as the scandals start to get the attention of the Parisian politicians.
Nevím, jestli jsem se víc červenal studem z těch všech prasečinek, nebo tetelením se nad půvabností překladu z roku 1937.
Къде другаде, ако не във Франция ще назрее почти революционна ситуация заради един писоар?!
Героите на Шевалие странно ми напомнят за тези на Чудомир - не само защото са от едно и също време, а и защото кметът, даскалът, попът, кръчмарят, местните клюкарки и хубавици по същия начин са в основата на живота в провинциалното градче, било то френско или българско.
Но откровено хапливият език на Шевалие е навлязъл много под незлобивата ирония.
"Под ножа" е пуснато всичко - политика, армия, църква, та дори и провалилата се конференция по разоръжаване в Женева (където, впрочем, споменава и България).
Настъпва винаги един миг, когато хората пораждат повече жалост, отколкото преди това отвращение."
CHE BELLO!Questa è una delle tipologie di romanzo che preferisco!
L'arrivo dei soldati è una storia che fa sempre dar di volta al cervello delle donne.
Secondo me, invece, è una così grande abbondanza di uomini in piena attività e freschezza, le occhiate dei quali bruciano la pelle,alle donne, l'idea che i soldati sono sempre pronti a venire al sodo, sempre pronti all'andare all'attacco senza chiedere consiglio o domandare il permesso.
Insomma è facile vedere che questa idea di soldati mette in moto in loro un mucchio di affari che sonnecchiano in fondo alla loro natura."
It's a lovely idea for a book: take a secluded, rustic, wine-growing village in the Beaujolais region of France, where traditions are long-established and nothing has changed in years, and explore what happens when the inhabitants are exposed to all the new ideas and products of the modern world.
Up until the 1920s the fictitious village of Clochemerle was staid and secluded.
All that was needed for a happy life was favourable weather, a cellar full of wine, a good vintage each year, a satisfied wife and a house full of children.
This is one of my all time favourites and, having leant it to somebody else (Paddy if you're reading this, it was you) i have not been able to find another without breaking the law. The synopsis of the plot is the fallout that follows the installation of a urinoir in a sleepy French village. The characters are beautifully observed and the description of events is mastefully understated. I need to find another copy so I can re-read this masterpiece fo French fiction.
Je to skvelá kniha, v ktorej víno a moč tečú potokom. Taký mix "Áno, pán minister/premiér", House of Cards a Jesenského Demokratov. K tomu ľúbostné epizódy jemné ako z Angeliky i ťažkotonážna erotika, vrátane pár faktických úchyláčin.Hečkov preklad je ľubozvučný, ale nepôsobí zastarane, skôr "koloritne". A mená charakterizujúce postavy sú skvelým doplnkom: farár Obrobťa, svätuškárska stará panna Kunikunda Fiťfiriťová, vidiecka barónka z Jelenej Prte.
Чудесен стил. Богат език и много остроумно написана книга, интересна и смешна, без да се заливаш от смях обаче. Образите са колоритни и добре описани, както и взаимоотношенията между героите и техните характери. Чудно лятно четиво.
Bawdy goings-on in rural France between the wars. Very good at character and plot — the humor is occasionally barbed, a la Twain.
This is one of my favourite books of all time.Funny, quaint, naughty, and endearing.It's one of the few books which have made me laugh out loud.
Quizás el paso del tiempo no ha favorecido a esta novela, que hoy en día se lee como una sátira un tanto trasnochada de una sociedad, que en el fondo, continúa siendo actual, pero cuyas herramientas de satirización se corresponden con otra época.
Hay pasajes buenos y entretenidos, con un buen grupo de personajes, pero otras veces la narración se va por las ramas y no termina de centrarse en lo que interesa al lector.
Como obra coral, está muy bien conseguida, porque el autor es capaz de apañárselas para manejar y entretejer las diferentes historias.
En fin, una sátira coral que se lee con interés y entretiene.
Like a Bordeaux red, this satire has aged well. The parodies, particularly of the politicians and the clergy, are as incisive today as they were when written. Sexual politics, though, have undergone a revolution since this work was written. Some of the attitudes towards women, particularly those held by the country police officer, would likely enrage modern feminists. If you like Catch-22, you will love this book; it is absurdity delivered deadpan.
Un des livres les plus cocasses et droles sur la France profonde
french kek of old
1.5 star
OMG what was that??? not my taste of book...
Buen libro, Hay acciones pequeñas que tienen consecuencias importantes para la comunidad, y para el Estado
A brilliantly written (and magisterially translated) piece of comic literature.
As a Catholic I’ve come across each and every one of these characters in almost every parish to which I’ve belonged.
Even now, years later after reading this, I find myself thinking as we file into the pews “oops, there sits Madame Putet - best avoid”.
But this is not a cynical caricature of French village life.
There is a warm thread of generosity that permeates through and a clear moral that emerges at the end (with being moralistic).
“If Heaven decided to carry out an experiment on Earth...”.
One of my favourite books ever!
Veselá, poriadne satiricka kniha z francúzskeho vidieku. Humorne vykreslene postavičky a až absurdná zápletka s verejným záchodom. K tomu úplne dokonalý Hečkov preklad. Skvelo som sa zabavila :)
