https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/116876.Politics_Among_Nations
I never took a course that required this book, it was purchased simply on the reputation it had (and still has).Morganthau's ideas are the foundation of the realist school of international politics.
Nevertheless, the UN does provide an outside party that, through the Secretary General, can wade in to international issues with legitimacy.I'd love to know what Morganthau would say about the present situation of the United States standing unchallenged militarily.You'd think this book would be very dry reading, but I did not find it so.
He disagrees with the idealist view of world politics, defined as (page 3) belief "that a rational and moral political order, defined from universally valid abstract principles, can be achieved here and now." He accepts the realist view, based on the following assumption (page 3): "the world, imperfect as it is from the rational point of view, is the result of forces inherent in human nature.
Political realism refuses to identify the moral aspirations of a particular nation with the moral laws that govern the universe." This classic work spends considerable time examining international politics as a struggle for power (the title of Part II).
If a summary could ever be made, it would be that political forces behave in favor of their interests, ultimately abandoning the legal/moral paradigms when the inevitable time comes.One might recognize his foretelling of the errors and uselessness of the U.N. in diplomatic affairs, and the political cinema that is the unmoving, unproductive U.S. Congress in Morgenthau's attack on public diplomacy: "No man [who has to argue their side] before the attentive eyes and ears of the world can in full public view agree to a compromise without looking like a fool and a knave.
Morgenthau, who opposed the Vietnam War -- a classic "political realist's" conflict -- argued that morality was simply political prudence on a national level.
A masterpiece!! This book must be read by all people interested in foreign affairs. Even though the last publication of this book was in the 70's, it applies perfectly to today's international relations.
An interesting explanation of the Realist school of thought in international relations. The text has a classical style, and many of the ideas are frequently reiterated. As someone who struggles to reconcile realist and idealist political tendencies, this book helped me to clarify some of my own reasoning. Read this if you like to understand the historical development of theories. For something along the same lines that is more contemporary, I would suggest the Tragedy of Great Power Politics.
Buku ini salah satu buku yang wajib dimiliki anak HI (hubungan internasional). Bukunya sih emang bagus...
Morgenthau is as pretentious verbose as he is intelligent which makes for a difficult read. however, his conservative/realist's perspective give a nice balance to a liberal education.
But classifying Morgenthau as a pure classical Realist is to misread his greatest work, Politics Among Nations.
For example, Morgenthau admits that the policy of prestige that nations pursue is the result of beliefs and not objective reality (p.
Morgenthau is also a vehement critic of a world public opinion, or more accurately he does not recognise one.
But in the era of globalisation, of internet and of social media, a world public opinion can have voice that transcends national borders.
Similarly, his approach to the solution of how to understand and deal with nuclear weapons is a post-modern outlook.
I actually kind of liked this IR book. The author, who was german, was very....interesting. And it was kind of funny when you could literally read how off hinged and crazed he was when he started going off about nuclear war and how we were all going to die from bombs
Professional textbook, has almost what u need to understand and research IR
The book is rightly called “ the bible of international relations “. Each and every topic is covered in the book. However, the book isn’t uptodate
Great primer for IR theory.
Kenneth Waltz’s Man, the State, and War. Unless the very last man in this world is convinced to give up his pursuit of political power through violent means, the words of realists – from Kautilya to Morgenthau and Waltz are going to be relevant in managing the international affairs.
Morgenthau’s great contributions through this is work is to explain the concepts of Balance of Power, Comprehensive National Power, Sovereignty, Ideological element in International politics, Perpetual Struggle between Status Quo & Political Change, Policy of prestige, certain aspects in Diplomacy, Total war, Collective security & Disarmament etc.,Hobbes writes the natural state of man as “solitary, poor, nasty, brutish, and short.” With that as a reality security for everyone is an impossible thing to achieve.
He argues that although here are obvious moral implications to international politics, neither analysts nor practitioners should allow themselves to be guided solely by abstract moral goals, but instead, must address power as it exists and is exercised.
He briefly analyses morality, international law, international justice, and world public opinion, but argues that even when they exist, their impact is secondary to the interests of great powers and the balance between them.
He discusses three potential approaches to this, peace through limitation (disarmament, security agreements, judicial settlements) but asserts that they will not be able to remove the underlying insecurity felt by states.
In today's geopolitical climate, preserving the status quo is everyone's ambition and almost every conflict in the world has the potential of engaging additional countries, including the major powers.
The discussion of power exerted for self-interest recalls Machiavelli's works and rings true in the frequently cited examples in history.He paints a very bleak picture about the prospects of nuclear warfare.
A world government is not possible yet because there are too many cultural differences which make a moral consensus impossible.
The moral consensus is essential for the government to be effective.
An old professor of mine, W.T.R. Fox, once told my class that Morgenthau was so annoyed by the constant criticisms of his work, which nonetheless became the standard text used by almost every college professor in America, that when he appeared at a conference he would simply say, "Okay. You know what I think. Let's have the complaints."
"What is important to know, if one want to understand foreign policy, is not primarily the motives of a statesman, but his intellectual ability to comprehend the essentials of foreign policy, as well as his political ability to translate what he has comprehended into successful political action." - p. 6
Hans J. Morganthau has written a classic in the field of international relations and established the school of realism in that study. Morganthau concludes that power is at the basis of international relations, just as at the basis of individual human relationships. A must read for anyone interested in the basic theory of international dealings among states.
Note to self: A classic reference/reading for International Politics course under Prof. Leszek Buszynski (London School of Economics 1980), Fall Term 2004, an elective course from the International Relations Program, International University of Japan.
A good analysis at the time of its publishing but world has come a long way since then and many new transformations have appeared in the theoretical field of international relations but his emphasis on aspiration of every being for power still holds true..!!!!
Took too long to tell me that diplomacy will be the answer to Utopia.
3.5
Also read for school
The archaic, out-dated, un-nuanced theory of classical realism in an 800 page nutshell. Yummy. Not.
Top ten books every student of politics should readby Piotr PietrzakAuthor of the prospects for humanitarian intervention in Syria
The geopolitical Bible. Or, at least the New Testament.
IR Alumni bible - Classic realism bible rather
Its a very good analysis on the realm of International Politics, from a realist perspective... I anjoyed reading this....
a book that shaped my political views. its bible of realist theory of international relations.
