https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1059.Shibumi
The reading public back in 1979 picked this book up thinking they were reading a best selling thriller novel, little did they know they were going to be exposed to a Trevanian philosophy called SHIBUMI. “SHIBUMI has to do with great refinement underlying commonplace appearances. It is a statement so correct that it does not have to be bold, so poignant it does not have to be pretty, so true it does not have to be real. SHIBUMI is understanding, rather than knowledge. Eloquent silence. In demeano
The reading public back in 1979 picked this book up thinking they were reading a best selling thriller novel, little did they know they were going to be exposed to a Trevanian philosophy called SHIBUMI.
One must pass through knowledge and arrive at simplicity to arrive at SHIBUMI.”I've seen reviewers say that this book is too intelligently written to be published today.
None of this offends your sense of rational probability?"Hei is subjected to devastating torture while in the hands of the Americans and this treatment sets him on his course of being an international assassin for hire and a level four master of sexual intercourse.
However, when the niece of an old friend gets caught up in an international conspiracy led by an oil corporation, Hel will have to decide if an old debt to that friend extends to protecting the woman against powerful international forces.I only vaguely knew about Trevanian after reading Incident at Twenty Mile, but since Don Winslow, one of my favorite crime writers, just released an authorized prequel to this book, I had to check it out.
die, deaf Westerner, die!SMELL the sour tang of fear, the smell of sweat flowing from under your arms to soak your expensive business suit as you contemplate who exactly you have crossed!
die, fool, die!TASTE the sumptuous flavors served to you in an assassin's lair!
style that equals substance.
style that is superior to the whinging, entitled, utterly deluded and very Western sense of "substance" - substance that actually equals grandiose self-absorption.
PROXIMITY AWARENESSfoolish Westerners like to imagine that the sixth sense is telepathy - or perhaps seeing dead people.
instead, Shibumi offers a delightful and very useful sixth sense: Proximity Awareness!
Shibumi is the 1927 Yankees of stupid books.
John Grisham and Dan Brown, working together, operating at the peak of their vaguely misogynist, airport-novel spewing powers, could never hope to approach the mind-exploding stupidity of this book.The protagonist of Shibumi, Nikolai Hel, is best described as an amalgam of James Bond, Bruce Lee, Robert Mitchum and Jesus Christ.
Riiiiiight.As the book jacket states, Hel is the ultimate assassin, but he cares not for such things, preferring instead to meditate on eastern philosophy in his enormous Basque castle and go spelunking (yes, seriously) emerging only to collect new female acolytes for sex training.
If you've ever wanted to know what it takes to become the world's hottest lover and most kick-ass ninja-style assassin, then Shibumi lets you in on the secret.
Basically, it's just your standard boy meets girl, boy becomes champion Go player, girl gets killed in nuclear attack, boy switches profession and becomes ninja-style assassin, boy learns Basque, boy meets second girl, boy and second girl play a lot of advanced sex games, boy meets third girl, third girl gets killed by shadowy Arab/American multinational company, boy swears revenge, boy...
But, you know, just minor variations on the usual theme.________________________________If you've never bothered to look at the Wikipedia article on Trevanian, it's worth reading.
First of all, this is really two stories: the surface story of a cool elitist professional assassin; and the second is the narrated story, told by Trevanian, with humor, wit and satire.
Honestly the second story, the gem of a storyteller tale was the better.
Sometimes it was high adventure and sometimes it was laugh out loud funny, as Trevanian, with a wry wink and nod, reminded the reader that this was a tall tale, have some fun with it.
If the CIA really had as many traitorous, evil, inept and/or downright stupid agents as I've seen in movies, books and on TV there would be no good agents.
That's the wall where nameless stars are inset in a wall for agents killed in the line of duty.Need I say that I realize the CIA has some "asses" and the I know some operations were quite probably far from kosher.
I was once cursed by a teen for wearing my Class A uniform.Here we open going right down the line with so many cliches I figure they must have come from somewhere like "plots and characters are us".
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Authority Without Domination: “Shibumi” by Trevanian"Miss Swivven regretted two aspects of her career: this getting sunburned every week or so, and the occasional impersonal use Mr. Diamond made of her to relieve his tensions.
Still, she was philosophic.
I am his concubine.” In "Shibumi" by TrevanianI’ve read "Shibumi" a long time ago.
“Ah…what Goo is to philosophers and warriors, chess is to accountants and merchants.”’ Read on, if you're not afraid to read hich-octane literature disguised as spy fiction.
This is a clear-as-day 5-star book and that’s from a fussy star attributor.After having to read – or start, at least – popular best sellers of late which are so badly written: Harry P., the third volume (and the others?) of Northern Lights, the Dragon Tattoo trilogy – it is a vast relief to be reminded that a book can be both finely written and unputdownable fun, thrilling and thoughtful.
And I’ve heard there is a similar dumbing-down impulse at home, where a series of children’s books by a very canny English writer is the most popular read on American campuses.Does this mean that HP, NL and DT had to be badly written?
In between snappy dialog in which Hel shows off how he is just so refined and Shibumi and shit with derision leveled at every Western country (the Brits, the French, the Italians, and the Germans all get it in the neck at some point, but no one more than Americans), there are action scenes where Hel proves he can do everything from cave diving to killing people with playing cards, equally over-the-top sex scenes 'cause of course learning to kill and play go also makes Hel totally awesome at the sexing.What elevated this book above the schlock it is pretending to be is the vicious satire and the clever writing.
I'd say it is somewhat closer to Eisler's John Rain than the other authors I mentioned, & it wasn't shibumi that I didn't like, it was Hel's final thoughts & conclusions, although I must admit they fit him well & brings home a point made early on.
He learns secrets of these arts & we're shown glimpses of them, but Trevanian excuses himself from giving details about 1/3 of the way through with a footnote that indicates his previous books were responsible for getting a man killed (The Eiger Sanction) or as a guide to one of the greatest art thefts.
Both reviews that I read said they loved "Shibumi" & were worried that this book wouldn't meet the mark, but it did.
classic spy novel--learned that airports had inferior screening policies in the '70s from reading this book, also that Go is a Japanese game which holds all the secrets of life. this book is must read. put down your bibles and read Shibumi.
Daha önce okuduğum hiçbir kitaba benzemiyordu kurgu düzeni o yüzden çok farklı geldi. Biraz daha ilgi çekici bir şekilde yazılabilirdi diye düşünüyorum ama karakterlerin her zaman okuduğum tiplemelerden farklı olmasına bayıldım.
Şibumi önceden merakla okuduğum kitaplardan biriydi.İlk bölümlerde bu adamlar kim, Munih Beşlisi, Kara Eylülcüler kimler, kimin peşindeler anlamaya çalışırken açıkcası biraz sıkılmıştım, ama sonra kitap bir açıldı bir aktı, elimden bırakamamıştım.
Yine Trevanian’ın bir başka kitabında anlatılan müzeden tablo çalma yöntemi, kitap İtalyanca’ya çevrildikten sonra Milano Müzesi’nden üç tablonun çalınmasında kullanılmış.
Şibumi kitaba göre bilgiden çok anlayış demek.
Kendini kanıtlama gereği duymayan bir alçakgönüllük demek.En sevdiğim alıntı bölümler ise: "Ben çok seyahat ettim, dünyayı avucumun içinde çevirdim ve bir şeyi iyice anladım.
Bunu yapmak, arada bir sürü doğa dışı şeyler yapmayı gerektirir.
Ben elimdekilerle mutlu olmayı çok iyi bilen biriyim.
MEGLIO SE LE GRU NON RITORNANOSono capitato su questo libro solo perché ho voglia di leggere ‘Satori’ di Don Winslow e ho scoperto che sono collegati: credendolo un sequel, ho letto ‘Shibumi’.
I lettori, invece, sembrano meno entusiasti.Qualche chicca:- L’amministratore in seconda della CIA è il Secondo Ufficiale di Collegamento Internazionale Operativo, meglio noto come SUdiCIO.- Il calcolatore (presumo si riferisca a un elaboratore elettronico, comunemente denominato computer) collegato col sistema centrale della Casa Madre si chiama Ciccione.
- Le donne sono oggetti, a volte appetitosi, a volte inutili.Eccetera…2001 Odissea nello Spazio ha quasi cinquanta anni e rimane un capolavoro.Questo libro ne ha 37, ne dimostra cento, e non è mai stato un capolavoro.
10/10Kitabı defalarca okuduktan sonra düşündüklerimi 2010'da böyle dillendirmişim:Rahmetli Trevanian, Amerika'nın içi boş süper kahraman mitini eleştiriyor bu kitapta.Nicholai'ın değme süper kahramandan daha yetenekli olduğu ortadadır; lakin bu üstün özelliklerin hiç biri Amerikan süper kahramanları gibi teknolojik aletlerle ya da bilimsel bir kaza sonucu elde edilmemiştir; her biri yoğun eğitimler veya başa çıkılması zor acılar sonucu kazanılmıştır.
Onun bedeni, davranışları ve sesi özündeki üstün özelliklerin sade bir yansımasıdır; Amerika’da yaratılan süper kahramanlar gibi rengarenk elbiseler ve havalı hareketlerin adamı değildir Nicholai Hel.Felsefeye, sanata, doğaya, onura, saygıya ve daha birçok insani değere yoğun bir saygı besler.

He practices a secret martial art called "naked/kill" that allows the practitioner to kill a man instantly using any object at hand, even a paper drinking straw, but we never hear any details on how he received this training, or how it works?
Ridiculous!And it would be, if Trevanian weren't a prose writer practically without fault, with an acid wit that doesn't belay his ability to exhibit deep feeling when called for.
For one who is ostensibly a writer of "airport paperbacks," Trevanian takes his time and lets the story build up over the long haul.
A quick internet search locates many favourable reviews of both this book, and of its author, Rodney William Whitaker (aka Trevanian), who apparently positioned himself as someone who read Proust, but not much else written in the 20th century.
Consider this statement from Wikipedia: Shibumi is elaborately written, using a very extended vocabulary, based on a sound knowledge in history and geopolitics, switching easily from pessimism to wry humor, Shibumi is more than a mere thriller, and may be compared to other works such as Brave New World, Nineteen Eighty-four and Fahrenheit 451.
However, I have seldom read or listened to a more inept, poorly-written thriller, and the comparison to the three great works referred to is ludicrous.
The story is about a man named Nicholai Hel who the author repeatedly reminds us for about 75% of the pages is the most formidable assassin ever.
The back story fills a big chunk of the book and then for about a hundred pages we are given the details of how he discovers an underground cave.
I strongly believe that the final 100 pages of this book was the biggest bunch of hogwash I have ever read in recent times.
There is a lot of America bashing in here, Trevanian spares nothing : food,culture,sex,western philosophy, the CIA & even the government is all scorned at.
Still, this was enough to have me determined to root against the guy's protagonist out of sheer spite, but I digress...The writing of this book was mostly heavy-handed 2-star fair (predictable plot, stereotypical characters) with occasional 1-star bits (the protagonist has a sixth "proximity" sense that let's him identify danger in the dark, he was also a mystic, and the world's greatest lover*).
In the end, I am embarrassed to admit, I did end up rooting for the protagonist and don't entirely regret the time I spent reading this one, so it I'll let him keep the second star for the time being.*This book was written before I was born.
My high school senior year literature teacher gave me this book to read during a post graduate visit. It's an amazing book about a hired killer with a zen like outlook on life and death. One of my favorite books ever.
A nice read.
(Winston Churchill.) (Proverbial, proverb, epigram, maxim.)I read SATORI (prequel by another author, links above) and my curiosity was significantly aroused to pursue the story in SHIBUMI.In my opinion the cover endorsements on the paperback edition get it wrong about the book.“The only writer of airport paperbacks to be compared to Zola, Ian Fleming, Poe, and Chaucer.” –New York Times.
The philosophical insights into various cultures, including my own superficial, American one, are superb.The book starts with ACTION, as one would expect of what will presumably a spy/assassin thriller.
Instead, they lay back and let it happen, not that protection of Jews has ever been a dominant theme in the German conscience.“After all, his father was French and very active in the Resistance.”Hel smiled.
It is astonishing that the Germans managed to hold France with so few divisions, considering that everyone who wasn’t draining German resources by the clever maneuver of surrendering en masse and making the Nazi’s feed them was vigorously and bravely engaged in the Resistance.
I'll have to create a new bookshelf for this one called “guilty pleasures.” I read Shibumi in English many, many years ago and picked it up in Spanish recently from the bargain bin of a great bookstore here in Valencia called Paris-Valencia.
Unfortunately, the author doesn't seem to think that just any old homo sapiens is destined for any sort of greatness as his character is “the result of thousands of years of breeding.” Huh?
All I have ever seen royalty produce are inbred goofs like Paris Hilton, Donald Trump, and Princess Di. Then there is the Japanese minimalism which shapes the character of the protagonist.
If you think this is a spoof, you're slightly more enlightened but you're still narrow minded.
It's the masterpiece, the time-defying work of an enlightened soul with democratic intentions.
Trevanian is a literary writer, yet he sturctures his stories in a way for most people to feel intelligent and enlightened.
What happens to Nicholai Hel in this movie is filtered through his state of mind and separated like the movements of a Go game.
Enlightening, stimulating read for the curious mind.
Very impressive character study.
In fact, it might be the most impressive I have ever read.
A stunning work.
In essence, this is a spy book, but it contains some gems which will stick with you, including spelunking scenes, and the art of understated excellence which compels you to cut all of the rose blossoms from your garden save that one perfect one, so as not to offend your visitors' eyes. Also references the Basque ethnic group, and the board game, Go. What else do you need?
Hoş ve boş
According to Bob's list, a significant number first discovered Go by reading Shibumi -- more than from any other book or popular cultural reference [this was, of course, long before Hikaru no Go, the manga and anime that introduced many younger players to Go].
What makes the book important to Go players lies in Hel's life before he becomes an assassin.
For what it is worth, Otake is also the name given to the character based on Kitani in Kawabata's great novel The Master of Go. Hel spends six years living the life of an insei, a student professional.
