https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/544053.The_City_in_History
Mumford is, in many ways, a total precursor to the postmodernists.
He maintains a skepticism towards Enlightenment as well as a strong respect for the subjective, vital forces of humanity.
Like any good contemporary social thinker, he recognizes that the parsing of culture into numeric bits and pieces is only one among many methods of attaining knowledge.There's a certain Eurocentrism which is to be expected for a writer from his era, but what troubles me more is what I deem "urbanocentrism." He has a way of viewing all history through the lens of the city, thus excluding the discourse of societies beyond the city-- which was, until a few years ago, most of the world's population-- and consequently only seeing a sliver of humanity.
Espousing some of the best critiques of Plato [50] and Aristotle [60], from which he identifies the lost potentiality of Greek civilization achieving a stable order of social organization through confederation [70] that would counterbalance the parochial nature of a single city, thus giving it the chance of surviving the onslaught of Roman civilization that would eventually overwhelm it."All the magnitudes will be stretched in Rome: not least the magnitude of debasement and evil.
Lewis Mumford's "The City in History" is great fun to read. He provides a dazzling show of erudition moving from De Tocqueville to Gilgamesh to Frederick Law Olmsted to Proust and to Vitruvius with dazzling speed somehow always tying his eclectic stable of references into a coherent narrative history. In my case the pleasure of was greatly enhanced by the fact that my prejudices in most instances with those of Mumford which are:1. The Urban Sprawl of the twentieth century was out of control with
Lewis Mumford's "The City in History" is great fun to read.
The primary role of the city in society is be a "sacred space" in the sense used by Mircea Eliade when man's cultural and scientific power can flourish4.
The perpetual contradiction between vision and reality leads to a perpetual cycle of growth, decay and destruction.Mumford argues that cities grew from an innate desire for man to have a central, sacred place for burial.
Cities no longer generated a sense of community and man's cultural development was being suffocated.
Possibly the most valuable book I have read. An education in what a city should be.
This has everything. I do not want to write anything more.
Solutions to the city's woes (housing, congestion) are not provided, nor even suggested, but criticism is freely dished out.
This includes the university tenure system, the inconveniences of nuclear war, or the monastic movement.Overall, I would say that although the book contains interesting points, they are diluted in the hundreds of pages of ramblings where one cannot easily distinguish opinion from fact.
For, though the author was an academic and the book ends with a copious bibliography, "The City in History" does not reference other works by means of footnotes or endnotes once in all its 657 pages.
There is little to no primary source information or data to support Mumford's claims about the causes or impacts of various elements in the evolution of urban design.
This is one of many arguments he puts forth that is half-baked or presented without data to support it.In short, if this book was being graded by a contemporary professor of history or urban planning, it would receive a failing grade.
I think it's an interesting book to read for metahistorical perspective, but does little to present a rigorous analysis of the evolution of human settlements.
It's an obligation to read this book for every urban researcher to know what innovative thoughts are just reinventions of ones in the past.
His perspective is humanistic, that is, he regards cities as a place for the common person to live and realize his/her full potential.
Spaciousness, especially green space, as in parks has his recommendation and approval.His vision: (The purpose of the city: ) "That magnification of all the dimensions of life, through emotional communion, rational communication, technological mastery, and above all, dramatic representation, has been the supreme office of the city in history." (- the next-to-the-last sentence in the book).Evaluation/Commentary:There is a wealth of information and insights in this history with a good bit of opinion thrown in.
Is the more secular instinct merely one of modern man?I could not wait for Mumford to get to the time when there were written records, so that I could read about actual city planning and theory.
And for their gargantuan size, which cuts people off from their surroundings.Mumford sees much hope in Ebenezer Howard's Garden Cities.
Rather than letting suburban sprawl eat up all the surrounding land, adding forever to traffic, Howard sets out a plan for smaller towns surrounded by green zones.Mumford's account of the creation of the suburb is interesting in its own light.
I gave up. His writing is so arrogant and tedious and the first chapters on ancient cities are filled with so many unfounded speculative “perhaps”es, the book was unreadable. It’s written in a dated, wannabe-British mid-century New York style of “oh I’m so amused by my own wit”, when I was looking for a historical survey. I love the history of cities, so maybe I’ll try again some day when I have more patience.
Astonishing in its breadth and clarity. Although the book starts slow (and, unfortunately, with some tired-if-not-upsetting gender stereotypes), Mumford hits his stride with his description of Rome. By the end of World War II, his prose his hard to match.
Ponderous, dull, meandering, unsubstantiated.
Cute and Elegant. Boring as entertainment, yet enjoyable. Lots of things, and I like the way he writes them. Five stars for the first half.
First half is solid. Second half is what you'd expect from a white historian writing in the 1960s about urban issues.
Starting in the neolithic era, Mumford marches through all of recorded time and place (place being limited to the Near East, Greece, Rome, Europe and America) to bring, you, the reader, his thoughts on the role and "prospects" of the city.In the beginning, it's an exhilerating ride.
His critique of the Roman method of burial (take bodies just outside city limits, dump, bury) contrains so much righteous indigination you might think the Romans were still pottering around when he wrote this book.After Rome, we get an equally stirring defense of the Middle (don't call them "Dark" around Mumford) Ages.
Mumford is a big fan of the city in the late middle ages.
He traces the prehistoric formation of cities, the ancient shaping of cities through war and need for labor, the rise of slave societies and free citizens in Ancient Greece and market places, and survival of Roman cities, the formation of medieval cities which he seems to believe is the ideal form of cities in an active organic growth, to the warping of cities in industrial capitalism to a Dickensian Cokecity, to finally the suburbanization and the abolition of limits, according to Mumford.He argues throughout that cities were shaped by rulers need to store the goods of civilization, control labor supply, and as a base of forming military power to project over both its own subjects and rival cities, or in protection from rivals.
He also idealizes medieval cities and quite rightly sees industrial capitalism as fundamentally changing social relations to the detriment of city life.
Even so, Mumford can write very beautifully when he’s not side tracked and actually zeroes in on an interesting topic.
Unfortunately he's often side-tracked and jumping from topic to topic with very little structure discernible.Mumford’s thesis is murky.
He criticizes a wide variety of things from nuclear war to highway engineers.
His general prescription for cities includes more variety of forms, fewer highways, and more respect for the pedestrian realm and offers many good ideas, probably very ahead of their time.
Some of his criticisms are pretty spot on, but his ideas would be hard to organize into a theory of urban design.
The City in History is a work of impressive scope, presenting nothing less than the development of cities in the Western world from antiquity through the mid-twentieth century.Overall, Mumford argues for cities based on human scale, organic development, and managed growth, with an attention to function, aesthetics, and human/environmental needs.
Originally published in 1961, Mumford's preoccupation with the potential for nuclear annihilation pervades the final chapters.This is not light reading, to be sure — its 576 pages are thick, dense, and full of sweeping connections.
I found this book fascinating when I had to read it for a college course 35 years ago.
(It was written in 1961.) I never thought about cities in the same way again.
Mumford not only traces the development of cities, he also explains why they're integral to the functioning of society.
He writes about what cities get right as well as what they get wrong and offers suggestions for making them work better.
Some reviewers have said that the reading is dry, but I don't remember it that way.
I would definitely recommend this book for anyone who is interested in city planning and/or social issues.
A massive and intimidating book, but, once you get a bead on his Anglophilic prose style, Mumford is great at bringing to life the story of the city's evolution -- from necropolis (for man's first structures were meant for the dead, not the living) to walled stronghold to industrial megalopolis. It's a damn big book. Even the plates and captions would make a slim volume. But, even though it's huge and high-toned, it's surprisingly accessible: Back in Mumford's day, you could be erudite without jargon, and a good dictionary is all you'll need to slog through the more difficult passages.
Bought this book for an Urban Studies class I took about... 5 years ago? It's really thick and I never needed to read the whole thing for class, but I've started at the beginning and I'm contemplating the different factors that drew humans together in cities. Origins of civilizations and religions are interesting to think about while we've been listening to Christopher Hitchens's "God is not Great".
A magisterial work, the historical study of the urban development from Ancient Egypt to Modern Era, though it is written in 1960's, but the scope as well as the insight is timeless. The great thing about this book is that it's not only dealing with urban theories, but moral as well as a study of civilization itself. This work will stand in my shelves with pride for years to come. [Bought in Kinokuniya, Singapore:]
This book is really dense. It was not what I expected, and at first I wanted to toss it. But as it got moving I got more into it, and by the end I was absolutely captivated. I was especially intreagued by the social commentery. Mumsford has a talent for adding his opinions on the commendable and lamentable choices made by modern and historical society. That fact added some intreaguing intellectual considerations to an otherwise densely academic endeavor.
This book took me FOREVER to get through... not because it's a boring read, but rather because it is so massive. It transcends disciplines, incorporating elements of Anthropology, History, Urban Design, Architecture, Political Science...The highest praise this book receives is that it's still used in classrooms today across disciplines. A must read.
Mumford's style is fluid, always moving and carrying you along; coherent, clear without being simple. I don't know how or if his analysis of the urban environment have stood up over time, and if you're really into the subject his should probably only be a starting-ground. But what a way to begin, because I very much doubt the elaborations will be as beautifully written.
One of the best books ever written about cities. For those of us who think about and work on issues of urban development, we can only aspire to this combination of expansiveness, precision, humanism, and critical optimism. Especially relevant and prescient with regards to the ties between technology and governance of cities.
I never would have picked this book up had it not been for school. I thoroughly enjoyed it. The narrative-type discussion on the evolution of the city made it a fascinating read, and there was plenty of information on the social structures and important cultural artefacts of each of the iterations of the city that were discussed.
A book definitely not meant for the casual reader. This is an understandably long and ponderous trek through the history of man's efforts at building cities. If this is a subject you're interested in then this is a fascinating journey. If it isn't your cup of tea then Uncle Mumfie, as he was affectionately called by my classmates and me, will bore you to tears.
Lewis Mumford is my hero. sadly, the days of grand narrative history are over. nevertheless, people like Manuel Delanda or (dare i say) Jared Diamond offer hope that it is still possible allow big ideas to emerge from big history.
