https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18839.Orlando

"I'm sick to death of this particular self.
I want another." Orlando to me is a dream come true in literature.
It is the quintessence of what reading means in my life - the opportunity to leave my own life behind and step into the body and soul of other people, only to move on again when I feel like it.
Orlando is a hymn to reading and imagination and love.
It is a break from conventions, and a story heavy as a heart and light as a feather.Love it!
Woolf did not write this book for her readers; she specifically wrote it for her close “friend” and fellow writer Vita Sackville-West.
As such Woolf does things she would not normally do in her writing; it is not at all serious but instead takes on the form of a literary homage, homage to reading and writing.
The story also ends with Orlando, a woman writer living in the 20th century.
The entire novel is a fictionalised history of Vita Sackville-West, of an imagined past life she lived under the guise of Orlando several centuries before she met Woolf.
I’ve read a lot of her non-fictional essays along with her literary criticisms of other 20th century writers.
So I see a purpose in this reading experience that Virginia Woolf provided me and take it as an important lesson to carry with me from now on - and how appropriate that it came just at the beginning of a new and exciting year.I’ve always liked to plan things to the last detail in my life.
Yes, I saw glimpses of brilliance here and there, and I loved the idea of the book since the beginning, plus the fact that I’ve always admired both Woolf and her writing style, so it surprised (and bothered) me that I wasn’t actually having a great time with it.
Towards the end it becomes apparent she’s no longer in the same spirit with which she began the book.
There’s also a sense that she’s sometimes showing off with certain friends in mind – you realise while reading this book that there’s a subtle but hugely significant difference between genius in full stride and showing off: even though genius in full stride can seem like showing off it never quite does.
It might have started as a bit of fun with Vita in mind but to my mind it’s Lytton Strachey she’s often thinking about while writing this.
It is deep in the book when suddenly Orlando springs startlingly to life, not that there was anything wrong previously, but up to a point it had seemed a pleasant narrative made notable by a number of passages of great beauty, love and attention, and by occasional bits of vivid description, but marred slightly by a rather self-conscious mischievousness on the part of the author.
I have to say, I could read all the writings of Virginia Woolf under the sun (which is unlikely, but you never know) and nothing else would be as rousing as this.
It meant a universe of fluctuating moods, characters and sweeping poetry that gives reason to be through the act of reading.How to describe the nuanced melody of finely threaded irony prodigiously in tune with the most sophisticated sense of humor that entertains and prickles and urges to see the world without the limiting lenses of gender, class or social convention?One can evolve unhindered when he suspends judgement and allows the flow of writing to give way to a solid account that sparkles because undeniable reality is better understood through the theatrical fiction of its form.How to account for centuries expanding and contracting beyond human comprehension, decades that amount to the fall of a rose leaf on the ground, years that disappear in a flash?
It is a pre-postmodern magical-realist mashup that slips effortlessly between fictionalised biography (with the biographer reporting their frustrations to the reader); pontifciations on high society; homage to, quotes from, and satire of famous writers and critics; queer feminist tract; numerous parallels with the detailed history of Vita Sackville-West's family and home (Knole); the pains of love sought and lost; streams of consciousness; comical wooing; the inspiration, methods, and frustrations of writing, especially for women; the emptiness of wealth (shades of Gatsby, which I reviewed HERE); sensuous descriptions of nature, clothes, and furnishings; and it’s all wrapped up with an almost trippy ending.The Plot“Time passed… and nothing whatever happened.”This is not primarily a plot-driven novel, and for Orlando, time is as flexible as sex/gender.
675. Orlando = Orlando: A Biography, Virginia WoolfOrlando: A Biography is a novel by Virginia Woolf, first published on 11 October 1928. A high-spirited romp inspired by the tumultuous family history of Woolf's lover and close friend, the aristocratic poet and novelist Vita Sackville-West, it is arguably one of Woolf's most popular novels: a history of English literature in satiric form. The book describes the adventures of a poet who changes sex from man to woman and lives for centuries, meeti
A high-spirited romp inspired by the tumultuous family history of Woolf's lover and close friend, the aristocratic poet and novelist Vita Sackville-West, it is arguably one of Woolf's most popular novels: a history of English literature in satiric form.
His-her pronouncements sound almost like a chorus of voices, echoing all the dichotomies that characterize our existence and the transience of our emotions.Orlando begins the journey of life as a man of wealth and social standing in Elizabethan era England, comfortable in the skin of his vanity, amorous in his dalliances with women.
Thus in a way Orlando is not different from Woolf's other works just because of the noticeable absence of a stream of consciousness(which, again, is not totally absent here) but because here, she attempts to grasp at an amorphous entity like time and enclose it within a few pages.
Published in 1928, toward the end of the most productive stage of Woolf's career as a writer, Orlando doubles as national history and romance: the playful and ironic novel famously centers on the transformation of its protagonist's gender, near the start of the 18th century, but most of the story deals with Orlando's different loves and England's changing social norms over the course of three centuries.
The gender change and kaleidoscopic setting afford Woolf the chance to examine themes especially relevant to women in the 1920s, such as bodily autonomy or marriage, from several historical and social vantage points.
The style is definitely different from the other Woolf books I've read so far.
The novel had an almost fairytale-like feel to it, and I was definitely enchanted from the start.I don't think the following is a spoiler as it is included in the book's blurb : this book is about a 16 year old boy, Orlando, a favourite of Queen Elizabeth I, who one day wakes up to find that he has become a woman!
I feel that, as straight-forward as the story is to read, there are so many issues incorporated that I think there are also as many different approaches for reading this book.Now I'm in the mood for more Woolf and I think a re-read of Mrs. Dalloway is in order.
Woolf recognised this.One of the keys to the book is Vita’s ancestral home, Knole.
Vita had lost Knole because a woman could not inherit; here Woolf gives her it back.Many of the characters represent people both knew.
It is interesting to consider that originally Woolf had conceived it as an illustrated book with photographs and pictures.
Harold Nicholson found it difficult to conceive that anyone else could know the private Vita that he knew and thought it was a lucky accident (it wasn’t, Woolf was very perceptive).
Mary Campbell (another of Vita’s lovers) was also surprised how accurately the private Vita was portrayed.
I like nothing better than when two books I happen to be reading overlap, even if briefly, so I was really pleased when Virginia Woolf’s fictional character, Orlando, suddenly mentioned Jonathan Swift, whose Journal to Stella I’ve been reading recently.
in a mad house.The  'talks baby language to a girl' remark is a direct reference to the letters Swift wrote to his young friend, Esther Johnson, whom he called Stella.
Esther/Stella lived at Swift's house in Ireland with a companion, Mrs Dingley, while Swift spent time in London engaged in politics, pamphleteering, political satire, and visiting Lords and Ladies such as Orlando.
Introduction, by Peter AckroydIntroduction, by Margaret ReynoldsList of IllustrationsPreface, by Virginia Woolf--OrlandoIndex
Easy - in 1991 Sally Potter decided to film Orlando, one of the loveliest, most ravishing novels in the English language.
So Sally Potter needed a frozen river.
Great.But then the hotel door banged open and some big guys came in and said to Sally Potter and her palsWe know you have made arrangement with the politicians.
Who?Just the boys who really run Kiev, is who.So they paid some more taxes.
And didn't ask for a receipt.I remember Sally potter telling this story with great gusto when I saw her introduce this movie at Nottingham's arthouse.
Orlando is so strongly an individual that his/her sex hardly matters from a readerly standpoint.
But we don't see Orlando being an ambassador, and hardly more do we see her being a literary hostess.
Despite the pretense at biography, we are really inside Orlando's head, experiencing a thought process and a personality rather than actions.
The depictions of Orlando's struggles with creativity showcase Woolf's talent for combining painfully astute mockery with personal sympathy, and the snippets she uses to illustrate the styles of various periods are perfect.
The scene where Orlando finds herself helplessly writing missish verse is a side-splitter.
"The change of sex, though it altered their future, did nothing whatever to alter their identity."- Virginia Woolf, OrlandoA beautiful, poetic look at gender, sex, poetry, time, love, living, etc.
It also allowed the fluidity of gender to be explored in a way that a less fanciful novel might not have been able to.It is wild to think this book was published in 1928 AND here we are 90-years-later still working our britches into Puritanical bunches over gender and bathrooms.
When I started reading, I had no idea about the references to people, places, their characters or their lives as are known to be mentioned in this work.
The different centuries starting from Elizabethan and Jacobean to Restoration, Augustan, to Age of Sensibility, Romanticism and finally to Victorian, have been depicted in the form of exploration of the human mind.
I finished this book about a week ago, and have been trying ever since to figure out how I'm supposed to review it.
I honestly can't think of anything to say except this:Every single emotion I've ever felt and every thought I've ever had, had already been felt and thought and written down by Virginia Woolf decades before I was even born.
There is not a single concept or feeling in any of her books that isn't already intimately familiar to me.
Reading her books is like having someone look into my own mind, deeper than I ever looked, and discovering something that is simultaneously unheard of and completely recognizable.
My second Virginia Woolf book.This further improved my understanding of her work. I loved this one too !AfterTo the Lighthouseand this one, I have decided to read Mrs. Dalloway in line to reach to a conclusion of my opinion about her books.Only after completing this third book of her, I'll write detailed reviews on her all three books !
Through different ages, Orlando tastes the life and literary trends of each time, herself changing and maturing over tim, and all this is portrayed in Woolf's beautiful prose.This is also supposed to be a sort of tribute/love-letter to Woolf's friend, Vita, I don't know how.However what was hardest for me to digest (really hard) was that Orlando didn't notice the change of her sex for several days (really, really hard.) And (s)he only noticed it when (s)he started getting in touch with other people, and his/her further experiences to seem to validate the theory that gender behavior is induced by social expectations (rather than something inherent), a nurture thing rather than nature.
The story spans over 300 years where Orlando's life changes from man to woman, from century to century.
Virginia has adopted a narrative style of writing for the most part of the story, but toward the end this style is slowly changed in to a conscious stream of writing.
But in Orlando, since it was a gradual descent to conscious stream from the narrative style of writing, I was able to grasp and understand it better.
And I was surprised to find that I like her conscious stream of writing.
That particular state is all very necessary to personal growth, but really, is it too much to ask to be able to laugh while painful pieces of existential clarity are being thrown at you pell-mell?
The chaos, the heartbreak, the absurdities, the ridiculous conceptions of meaning in every word and phrase, the overwhelming realities of making a living off of one's prose, the absolute demands that writing makes on the writer, the cutting up and laying out and stitching up of the soul in every slice and spot of ink, the exhilaration, the wonder, the joy.
Oh tragic day, that I ever took up a book and began to think.
This book was like the song that wouldn't end- it just goes on and on (yet it isn't particularly lengthy) without saying very much of interest.
Despite the fact that reading it was a serious chore, for whatever reason I couldn't just give up and toss it aside (much like being unable to look away from a flaming car wreck).
Whilst it may seem sacrilege to those who appreciate ‘Orlando’ and the writing Woolf to say so – despite its brevity, ‘Orlando’ feels overlong and perhaps would have benefitted from some significant editing.I found ‘Orlando’ ultimately to be often wilfully obscure, self-indulgent and esoteric – its meaning sometimes shrouded in a mist of overt intellectualism and flights of fancy, rendering it often meaningless and impenetrable.‘Orlando’ then is a book which is hugely important and influential (politically and culturally) in terms of its story and the issues it raises – ground breaking as it must have been in 1928.
It involves the self, we know.
What is in a lifetime of moments?
And the times change, but they changed right now, so many times, just during this sentence they changed, everything changed, so many times!-- it is the '80s, gone past, it is the 1950s, here forever, it is 17th century Russia, and Christ, Christ is on the Cross!-- and I sit not on my couch, but at a desk; it is first grade, Mrs. Navy Hat's Class; I was so bad!-- so obnoxious I was!, running and throwing things, and not reading, and not knowing.
The moments, they pass.
They pass us all; and still we must choose....
Then she said: “The old woman ought to be shot”."(Nigel Nicolson - Portrait Of A Marriage: Vita Sackville-West and Harold Nicolson)Apart from the biographical aspect of Orlando being the fictionalised account of Vita's life, the book also amazes in that it dares to address the issues of identity and gender-bending or rather gender-switching - making it one of the most outspoken works of literature of its time to criticise a society that would condemn people to distinct roles based on their gender.
Γιατί ο καθένας μας μπορεί να πολλαπλασιάσει σύμφωνα με την εμπειρία του, τις διαφορετικές συμφωνίες που οι διάφοροι εαυτοί έχουν συνάψει με τον ίδιο, και κάποια από αυτά τα πράγματα είναι εξαιρετικά γελοία για να τα καταγράψει κανείς."Είναι εξαιρετική η μαεστρία όπου η συγγραφέας αποτυπώνει το πέρασμα ανάμεσα στις εποχές.
Το αποτύπωμα του χρόνου επάνω στα πράγματα, το σημείο επάνω στο οποίο συντελείται η μετάβαση από την μία εποχή στην άλλη, είναι κάτι που στο έργο αυτό δίνεται συχνά μέσα από τα χτυπήματα ενός ρολογιού.
I believe that I have all of their biographies, the most unlikely being Lydia Lopokova, the Russian ballerina.I had studied the art of Vanessa Bell and her "partner" Duncan Grant and I love this but apart from reading the fascinating diaries and letters of Virginia Woolf, I found her literary style in her novels to be most uninspiring and I'm sure that many VW purists would hate me for that.
"Orlando" was first mentioned in Virginia's diary in 1927 and she knew then that it was going to be based on Vita.
