https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/774600.In_the_Year_of_the_Boar_and_Jackie_Robinson
In Betty Bao Lord's autobiographical In the Year of the Boar and Jackie Robinson, we meet Shirley Temple Wong who has just emigrated from China to Brooklyn, New York.
And no American represented the American Dream more than Jackie Robinson, star second baseman for the Brooklyn Dodgers.
It wasn't until her classmate Mabel introduced her to America's national pastime followed by a class discussion on baseball, did Shirley begin to feel comfortable as an immigrant to our great land.
This is also a fitting book for those ages in school as it would help generate class discussions on immigration, the American dream, civics, and breaking down prejudices.
A lovely little story of a Chinese girl who moves to America in the 1940s and discovers her love for the Brooklyn Dodgers. One of my favorites growing up, and it still has a place of honor on my bookshelf. <333
This is one of my favorite books to share with my fourth grade students.
There are so many mini lessons that can be taught that I have to pick and choose carefully in order to keep from spending too much time on it!
It helps my students relate to my non-English speakers and the ones who are just beginning to grasp the language.
I use it to teach idioms, similes, and metaphors.
Plus, my students laugh out loud every year!
Truly a fun learning experience that I would recommend for any 4th or 5th grade classroom.
All American children should read this lovely book about the journey of Shirley Temple Wong to her American home.
She finds solace in listening to baseball on the radio, when Jackie Robinson played for the Brooklyn Dodgers.
Baseball not only helps Shirley get a grip on America soil, but also serves as a great metaphor.
Anyone can be great like Jackie Robinson.
And yet, Shirley will always love the traditions of China.
Though it isn’t easy, Shirley finds the balance between the old and the new, as all immigrants have to do.
After a rocky start, her classroom opens up to embrace Shirley and her heritage.
As I read, we analyzed the last chapters for the resolution of another problem and concluded that it had to do with Shirley’s split identity.The story occasionally suffered from what I think was an outdated style.
Since I was reading this aloud to students, few of whom, if any, are American, I was embarrassed twice by passages of unabashed, jingoistic, American exceptionalism.
Those passages seemed to imply that Shirley and other immigrants must believe the United States is the greatest nation on Earth to fully assimilate.
This is a positively charming and delightful book for elementary and middle school children.
This book spoke to her.
With her background and introduction to the Chinese culture, I am thrilled that she has been exposed to the challenges of immigration, acceptance, developing new friendships, judging, letting go of and keeping traditions, family heritage, awareness, kindness and the importance of family and love.
I acknowledge lovely writing, poetic at times, and understatement.
This author was masterful at inference.
How pleased I am that this granddaughter is acquiring a taste for good writing and meaningful reading.
Kudos to the author.
I LOVED this book when I was a kid. I think I must have read it five or six times. A recent immigrant, Shirley Temple Wong reminds me of Francie Nolan from A Tree Grows In Brooklyn. Both characters are somewhat naive and get bullied by the other kids when they try to fit in. It's a remarkably poignant book.
this is a good book for children to read about cultural differences and what children from other countries feel when they do come here. besides that, this book was good, for it gave a lot of detales and it showed that children are quick adapters to there new world and I love how Shirly Temple became a Lover of baseball. would recommend to a school or a younger person but for as oldies not so much.
This was an enjoyable read about a year in the life of Shirley, a Chinese girl who moves to the United States with her family.
The writing covers twelve months in a short book, so some scenes and actions seem like they could have been fleshed out more.
I also didn't care for the bullying scene that seemed to imply that accepting violence from a bully is a great way to become their friend.
But overall it was a nice look at the time period (1947), the immigrant experience, and the inspiration that Jackie Robinson brought to people from so many walks of life.
It's a nice little book about immigrant life, although it lightens up many of the tough subjects maybe a little too much. Nonetheless, the issues are included--losing native language, mixing the old culture with the new, not communicating in the same ways and drifting away from parents' expectations of how the kid should be. It's a great read for kids. My students even clapped when we finished. Aww.
It's the story of a young Chinese girl (around ten, I think) who moves with her parents from China to Brooklyn in 1947 (the year of the boar, and Jackie Robinson's major-league debut with the Brooklyn Dodgers).
It's about a 10-year-old girl who emigrates with her parents from China to Brooklyn, New York, "in the year of the boar and Jackie Robinson," aka 1947.Shirley Temple Wong (I know, it's adorable but also totally believable -- after all, my mom named herself after Julie Andrews) struggles to adapt to her new environment feel true-to-life, but everything is touched with that beautiful innocence of children, where ignorant schoolyard bullying can transform into sharing and acceptance thanks to the unifying power of love for baseball.God, I really love this book.
One of my favorite middle grade readers. Just lovely.
Though obviously a children's book, In the Year of the Boar and Jackie Robinson does not use heavy-handed tactics to get points across.
I am sure that Isabelle (at 5 years old) would enjoy the illustrations by Marc Simont, and I am also fairly confident that she would appreciate Shirley's story.
There are a few incidents of childhood bullying that I might have to edit if I were to read this book aloud to her now, but in any case, I am really looking forward to sharing In the Year of the Boar and Jackie Robinson with her, and with Sebastien when he's older.
A wonderful, beautiful, touching book about little Shirley Temple Wong, a young girl who immigrates with her mother and father from Chungking, China to Brooklyn in 1947.
I read this to my 11 and 8 year old girls.
The book is probably best-suited for the 10-12 age range, but my 8 year old seemed to love it too.
I'm afraid this is a bit of a forgotten classic as I have not heard anyone ever talk about it.
I only heard of it through the death of Marc Simont, its illustrator.
A must read.
This is the third time I've done this book with my students. Great plot, and lots of good themes to discuss: courage, fitting-in, cultural differences, immigration, friendship, loyalty, etc. It also allows for some great projects including Chinese New Year, Chinese horoscope, researching Jackie Robinson and his groundbreaking presence on the Brooklyn Dodgers, and even introducing Shirley Temple! The book takes place in 1947, so we also did a compare/contrast with the America that immigrants came to then versus the America they come to today. We just finished it in class today and the kids loved it.
We've been listening to this in the car on the way to school in the mornings. I loved this story. For Shirley Temple Wong (love the name) it was a big shock to go from a fairly well-to-do Chinese household to Brooklyn and find herself less well-to-do and alone. I loved the mixture of confidence and uncertainty with which she approaches her new life. I also liked the progression from how new and inexperienced she felt to finding a friend and becoming a true American baseball fan. Wonderful story.
I first read this book as a school assignment in elementary school.
So long ago in fact that the cover price reads $2.95 and the glue in the binding is so old that pages fall out as I turn them.
But although the book itself has not healed up, the story has.
Set in 1947 it is a charming story of young Chinese girl coming to America and what the transition is like.
So then I just relaxed and enjoyed the story, charming, informative about culture and time period, funny, and in the end I even teared up a little bit.
How would you feel if you arrived in a new country where you hardly spoke their language, and had trouble fitting in?
Bette Bao Lord writes part of her childhood in Shirley Temple Wong, an immigrant girl who came with her mother to the U.S.A. for a new life, to join her father.
Meeting new friend, facing new challenges, the world is opened in front of Shirley, and then someone comes into her life -- Jackie Robinson, a black player for the Dodgers.
Soon she comes to admire the baseball hero, and there starts a whole tale In The Year of the Boar and Jackie Robinson.
Included in 100 Best Books for Children I expected this award-winning story of a Chinese immigrant growing up in post-war America to be captivating and interesting. Instead we all found it to be plodding and meandering with arcane colloquialism that were awkward. Like many books written more than 10 years ago, the plot moves at a pace too slow for children. They aren't captivated and are often left asking the question,"So?"
Definitely one of my favorite books of all time. It has it all-immigration, Brooklyn, history, baseball, cultures clashing and immersing, and great descriptions of food. I have read it at least 20 times and just found a free copy at the library to take home.
I'd been meaning to re-read In the Year of the Boar and Jackie Robinson for a while - last read in 5th grade, so it's been a minute - but never quite got around to it.
But I needed a book to fill my last task for the Book Riot Read Harder challenge and this was available on audio at the library :)Re-reading as an adult, the narrative does feel heavy-handed at times, but almost 30 extra years of life experience brings out a lot of details I missed.
But Shirley's story feels so universal, being the new kid and wanting to belong so very, very badly.
This was a long novel despite being only one hundred seventy pages. I felt like it took me a lot longer to read it than it should of. Regardless, I enjoyed how the story flowed and the struggles of Shirley. The sports aspect didn't interest me since I am not into sports, but that didn't affect my enjoyment of the novel.
an absolutely beautiful inspiring story!"this year of 1947. The Year of the Boar. The Year of Double Happiness."Bette Bao Lord, In the Year of the Boar and Jackie Robinson***Read by Melissa Hughes app 3.25 hrs
I had wanted to read this for a while, but finally pulled the trigger. I'm glad I did. Fitting in to a new culture and new school - basically growing up in a totally new environment with new kids, new games, a new language are explored in this story.
The final chapter, December, is really touching. When Jackie Robinson says, "Someday, Americans will elect a woman President." ... I thought yes! Shirley Wong Temple! Someday!
Lord does include a nice, though subtle tip of the hat to Shirley's two cultures - because this novel starts at the beginning of the Chinese New Year, the chapters are divided into months of the year 1947, with both the English word and the Chinese character given for each month.I loved her depictions of Brooklyn and the fact that Shirley goes to a public school, where she has the opportunity to meet all kinds of different kids - Latino, African American, Jewish among others.
Overall for the book "In the year of the Boar and Jackie Robinson" I feel that this book was very strong because the main person Shirley is a immigrant for china and is learning how to be american and finding hobbies to do like stick ball.
She announced in Chinese, Shirley you will enter fifth grade." (pg 42-43) this quote shows a great showing of the charter because she will be in the 5th grade witch sets the setting of the story.
overall in the book "In the year of the Boar and Jackie Robinson" i rate it high on my list because all the things going on.
Shirley also gets courage and inspiration from an American baseball player who in sense went through the same hurdles and she makes a point to be great at anything she does.
The book is great and has many great themes like friendship, immigration, isolation, home, perseverance, forgiveness and most of all courage.
Overall this is a great book for students for all the great themes and especially to have kids understand what newcomers may face when they first arrive to a new country.
Those students who are new can find a book that can compare their experiences interesting and be more prone to reading.
I never would have read this book in 3-5th grade based on the name.
There were many interesting references to Chinese culture - but I felt like some of them were just mentioned, so that if you didn't already know what they were, would you really understand what they were, or that they were anything different.
But if you don't know what it is, do you just read - moon gate and move one?
I know I would have liked it in 3rd or 4th grade.
And they explained things like the Chinese New Year Celebration well and the overall belief system.
This story centers around a school-aged Chinese girl, Shirley Temple Wong, who immigrates to Brooklyn in 1947.
I read it to my sons during a unit on China so that they could get an idea of the ways in which Chinese immigrants might reconcile their customs with American culture.
Shirley faces the universal pre-adolescent struggle of desiring personal freedom and separation from parents, but not quite being ready for all of the responsibility and efficacy that is necessary for the type of independence she craves.Definitely a worthwhile read--especially for teachers/parents who want to light the initial spark for discussions about the immigrant experience.
