https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15734967-mookajjiya-kanasugalu
"ಹೆರುವುದು ಅಸಹಯವಲಲ; ಇರುವುದು ಅಸಹಯವಲಲ; ಸಾಯೂವುದು ಅಲಲ, ಹುಟಟಿಸುವುದು ಅಸಹಯವೇ?ಗಂಡು ಹೆಣಣುಗಳನನು ಒಟಟಿಗೆ ಬೆಸೆದು, ಒಳಳೆಯದಕಕೋ ಕೆಟಟದದಕಕೋ ಸುಖಕಕೋ, ದು:ಖಕಕೋ ಒಂದುಗೂಡಿಸುವ ಶಕತಿ ಅಸಹಯವೇ? " .. an interesting book which tells the naked truth about what human life is about, bit difficult to digest for those who are adherent Hindus. The Kannada slang in the book used is more of havyaka brahmin making it a bit difficult for the other Kannadigas to understand the witty humour in the book.The western ghats has been explained in
"ಹೆರುವುದು ಅಸಹ್ಯವಲ್ಲ; ಇರುವುದು ಅಸಹ್ಯವಲ್ಲ; ಸಾಯೂವುದು ಅಲ್ಲ, ಹುಟ್ಟಿಸುವುದು ಅಸಹ್ಯವೇ?ಗಂಡು ಹೆಣ್ಣುಗಳನ್ನು ಒಟ್ಟಿಗೆ ಬೆಸೆದು, ಒಳ್ಳೆಯದಕ್ಕೋ ಕೆಟ್ಟದ್ದಕ್ಕೋ ಸುಖಕ್ಕೋ, ದು:ಖಕ್ಕೋ ಒಂದುಗೂಡಿಸುವ ಶಕ್ತಿ ಅಸಹ್ಯವೇ?
The Kannada slang in the book used is more of havyaka brahmin making it a bit difficult for the other Kannadigas to understand the witty humour in the book.The western ghats has been explained in a different manner when compared to KUVEMPU or Poornachandra Tejaswi, since the author see the ghats from the coastal side rather than the highland(BayaLuseeme)side.Most of the questions in our day to day life is well answered by the Grandmothers vision.
Due to which others think that she has lost her mental balance and become crazy.Not only she is able to see the history but can also see what really the person is and his doings by looking at him/her, it’s like she's and oracle but who only tells what has happened and what might happen in few hours or so, there is not much of extended inputs about her future sights.Well as the elder sibling is a student of history he wants to go in and around his village and see the old caves where there is mounting of ash, he visits and in the ash mound he collects certain things.
I will surely want the interested reader to read this book and review it themselves.Kannada Version: https://www.sapnaonline.com/index.php...English Version: it is called mookajji's visions but no idea where it is available.
Mookajjiya kanasu is the first ever kannada novel that I have read in all my 25 years of life.
The simplicity of the book, its description of everyday life, the thought process of the and the way the story and characterization follow are some of its many USPs. Simply put, it is the story of a septagenerian agnostic granny who seems to have incredible insight (quite literally) into the lives and minds of those around her.
Mookajji is perhaps one of the best characters that I have come across in all of the books that I have read.
Perhaps its too much to say just after reading one kannada novel, but I’m certain there will be many more to come.
What would you feel when someone very close to you, has the eye to see the future, past and the present.Mookajjiya Kanasugalu tells a story of "Mookajji" who has a divine power of seeing the past, future and things that people believe because they are made to believe.We humans most of the times lack the ability to question certain beliefs that we grew up with.
When we ask ourselves as to why we believe, or are we enforced to believe, then is when go deeper and try to find the truth."Mookajjiya Kanasugalu" is such an extraordinary( yet put very simple words) volume that makes us think after reading each and every line.We can only imagine after the book, what a humongous personality Dr.K.Shivarama Karanth was!
Probably would've been banned if it had been written in these charged up days, or at least raised a fair bit of controversy considering the fate of works like Ramanujan's 300 Ramayanas and Bhyrappa's Aavarana.
This book was written in 1968 and Shivarama Karanth was an atheist, environmentalist among many other things.
ಗಂಡು ಹೆಣ್ಣುಗಳನ್ನು ಒಟ್ಟಿಗೆ ಬೆಸೆದು, ಒಳ್ಳೆಯದಕ್ಕೋ ಕೆಟ್ಟದ್ದಕ್ಕೋ ಸುಖಕ್ಕೋ, ದು:ಖಕ್ಕೋ ಒಂದುಗೂಡಿಸುವ ಶಕ್ತಿ ಅಸಹ್ಯವೇ?When you say there is God and He created Man and Woman, what's right in saying their Union is wrong, that the concept of Samsara is something that should be spurned.
Amazing jnanapita award winning Novel. Must read kannada book.
ಒಂದು ದೇವ-ಹಲವು ನಾಮ, ಬಂಧನ-ಮುಕತಿ, ಒಲವು-ವೈರಾಗಯ, ಸೃಷಟಿ ನಿಯಮ, ಜಾತಿ-ಧರಮ-ಕರಮಗಳ ಮರಮದ ಕಂತೆಯನನು ಎಳೆ ಎಳೆಯಾಗಿ ಬಿಡಿಸಿದದಾರೆ ಕಾರಂತರು.ಅರಳಿಕಟಟೆಯಲಲಿ ಕುಳಿತು ಹೇಳುವ ಅಜಜಿಯ ಕಥೆಗಳು ಬಾಳಕಟಟೆಯಿಂದ ಬೂದಿಕಟಟೆಯ ಪಯಣದ ಸಾರವನನು ಸಾರುತತವೆ.
ಒಂದು ದೇವ-ಹಲವು ನಾಮ, ಬಂಧನ-ಮುಕ್ತಿ, ಒಲವು-ವೈರಾಗ್ಯ, ಸೃಷ್ಟಿ ನಿಯಮ, ಜಾತಿ-ಧರ್ಮ-ಕರ್ಮಗಳ ಮರ್ಮದ ಕಂತೆಯನ್ನು ಎಳೆ ಎಳೆಯಾಗಿ ಬಿಡಿಸಿದ್ದಾರೆ ಕಾರಂತರು.ಅರಳಿಕಟ್ಟೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ಕುಳಿತು ಹೇಳುವ ಅಜ್ಜಿಯ ಕಥೆಗಳು ಬಾಳಕಟ್ಟೆಯಿಂದ ಬೂದಿಕಟ್ಟೆಯ ಪಯಣದ ಸಾರವನ್ನು ಸಾರುತ್ತವೆ.
ಮನೋಜೀವಿಯಾದ ಮಾನವ ಕುಲವು ಈ ಭೂಮಿಯ ಮೇಲೆ ನೆಲೆಸಿದ ಅಲಪಾವಧಿಯಲಲಿ ಅಮಿತ ವಿಶವಗಳಿಂದ ಕೂಡಿರುವ, ಬಿಳಿಯಗಟಟಲೆ ವರಷಗಳಿಂದ ಕಾಣಿಸಿಕೊಂಡು ಬಂದ ಮಹಾ ಮಹಾ ಜಗತತಿನ ಬಾರಿಯ ಸೆರಗೊಂದರ ಸೂಕಷಮ ಎಳೆಯನನು ಕೂಡ ಚೆನನಾಗಿ ಕಂಡಿರಲಾರದು. ಆದರೆ ಆತ ತನನ ಅಲಪಮತಿಗೆ ಗೋಚರಿಸಿದ ಅದಭುತ ,ಆಶಚರಯಗಳಿಂದ ಚಕಿತಗೊಂಡು - ಈ ಜಗತತೇನು ? ಯಾರು ಅದನನು ಸೃಷಠಿಸಿದರು, ಯಾಕೆ,ನಾನು ಎಂಥವ ,ಯಾತಾಕಿದದೇನೆ -ಎಂಬ ಪರಶನೆ ಕೇಳತೊಡಗಿದ . ಬರಿದೆ ಪರಶನೆ ಕೇಳಿದರೆ ಸಾಲದಲಲ ; ತನನ ಎಟುಕಿಗೆ ಸಿಗದಂಥ ವಿಷಯವನನ ಸಿಕಕಿದಂತೆಯೇ ನೆನೆದು , ಮನಸಸನನು ಕಲಪನಾಲೋಕಕಕೆ ಹರಿಯಗೊಟಟು , ಅಲಲಿ ಕಂಡ ಕನಸನನು ನಿಜ ,ಸತಯ ಎಂದು ಸಾರುತತಲೂ ಬಂದ.-- ಕಾರಂತಜಜರ ಮುನನುಡಿ
ಮನೋಜೀವಿಯಾದ ಮಾನವ ಕುಲವು ಈ ಭೂಮಿಯ ಮೇಲೆ ನೆಲೆಸಿದ ಅಲ್ಪಾವಧಿಯಲ್ಲಿ ಅಮಿತ ವಿಶ್ವಗಳಿಂದ ಕೂಡಿರುವ, ಬಿಳಿಯಗಟ್ಟಲೆ ವರ್ಷಗಳಿಂದ ಕಾಣಿಸಿಕೊಂಡು ಬಂದ ಮಹಾ ಮಹಾ ಜಗತ್ತಿನ ಬಾರಿಯ ಸೆರಗೊಂದರ ಸೂಕ್ಷ್ಮ ಎಳೆಯನ್ನು ಕೂಡ ಚೆನ್ನಾಗಿ ಕಂಡಿರಲಾರದು. ಆದರೆ ಆತ ತನ್ನ ಅಲ್ಪಮತಿಗೆ ಗೋಚರಿಸಿದ ಅದ್ಭುತ ,ಆಶ್ಚರ್ಯಗಳಿಂದ ಚಕಿತಗೊಂಡು - ಈ ಜಗತ್ತೇನು ? ಯಾರು ಅದನ್ನು ಸೃಷ್ಠಿಸಿದರು, ಯಾಕೆ,ನಾನು ಎಂಥವ ,ಯಾತಾಕಿದ್ದೇನೆ -ಎಂಬ ಪ್ರಶ್ನೆ ಕೇಳತೊಡಗಿದ . ಬರಿದೆ ಪ್ರಶ್ನೆ ಕೇಳಿದರೆ ಸಾಲದಲ್ಲ ; ತನ್ನ ಎಟುಕಿಗೆ ಸಿಗದಂಥ ವಿಷಯವನ್ನ ಸಿಕ್ಕಿದಂತೆಯೇ ನೆನೆದು , ಮನಸ್ಸನ್ನು ಕಲ್ಪನಾಲೋಕಕ್ಕೆ ಹರಿಯಗೊಟ್ಟು , ಅಲ್ಲಿ ಕಂಡ ಕನಸನ್ನು ನಿಜ ,ಸತ್ಯ ಎಂದು ಸಾರುತ್ತಲೂ ಬಂದ.-- ಕಾರಂತಜ್ಜರ ಮುನ್ನುಡಿ , ಮೂಕಜ್ಜಿಯ ಕನಸುಗಳುGood read and food for thought :)
One of the most thought provoking book. It gives diversified views on many aspects of social life. Every time I read the book I get new perspective about life. When I read first time, it made me wonder why it received Gnyanapeeta award. It took me three readings to realise it deserved a better place than it has now.
This book nicely tells how and why we should treat life is more greater than any religion and GOD.
book is classic as are any of sir karanth's books, if one can just connect with the narration with open mind ul enjoy the story...
Mookajji is a modernist of 1968 who enlightens us to think with a broader perception towards religion, culture, god, gender etc. More you read, more you think and more you question.
ನೇರ ಮತತು ದಿಟಟ. ಪುರಾತನ ಹಾಗು ಆಧುನಿಕ. ನಿಷಪಕಷಪಾತ ಪರಶನೆಗಳೊಂದಿಗೆ ಸಮಾಜಕಕೆ ಕನನಡಿ ತೋರಿಸುತತಾರೆ ಮೂಕಜಜಿ.Simply brilliant piece of work. Completely deserving of the Jnaanapeetha award.
ನೇರ ಮತ್ತು ದಿಟ್ಟ. ಪುರಾತನ ಹಾಗು ಆಧುನಿಕ. ನಿಷ್ಪಕ್ಷಪಾತ ಪ್ರಶ್ನೆಗಳೊಂದಿಗೆ ಸಮಾಜಕ್ಕೆ ಕನ್ನಡಿ ತೋರಿಸುತ್ತಾರೆ ಮೂಕಜ್ಜಿ.Simply brilliant piece of work. Completely deserving of the Jnaanapeetha award.
This is the first Jnanapeetha award winning novel that I have read.
I was very much interested in reading an award winning novel.
If you read, you come to know how great and rational thinkers our authors are.
Ajji character is a rational thinker who questions every beliefs which we have about gods, salvation, relationship of man and woman.
L. Bhyrappa has similar views like Karantha about religious works like Ramayana and Mahabharata and it is evident in his books"Parva" and "Uttarakanda"  If "Mookajjiya Kanasugalu" has got Jnanapeetha award, "Devaru" has got Pampa award,then there's no fault in hoping a Jnanapeetha award for "Parva" or any other works of S.
The book mainly revolves around the conversations between a grand mother and grand son.The grandmother is presumed to be mad and deficient in her senses as per the world.
During most of the conversations between the grandmother and the grandson, she speaks of sensitive topics like DASHAVATARS(Hindu Mythology) , religion etc which actually question the basic beliefs that we have.Shri.Shivarama Karanth must have done immense research before writing this and the best part is, he presents the alternate viewpoints without hurting anybody's sentiments or beliefs and its more like putting across one's opinion without offending anyone
want to read
simply brilliant...
it's a experience
ಕೋಟ ಶಿವರಾಮ ಕಾರಂತರರು, ಜಞಾನಪೀಠ ಪುರಸಕೃತ "ಮೂಕಜಜಿಯ ಕನಸುಗಳು " ಕಾದಂಬರಿಯಲಲಿ ಪಾತರಗಳನನು ಹಾಗು ಸನನಿವೇಶಗಳನನು ಬೆಳೆಸಿದ ರೀತಿ ಅದಭುತ. ಖಯಾತ ಇತಿಹಾಸಕಾರಕ ರಾಮಚಂದರ ಗುಹಾರವರು ಕಾರಂತರನನು "ಆಧುನಿಕ ಭಾರತದ ರವೀಂದರನಾಥ ಟಯಾಗೋರ" ಅಂದದದು ಅತಿಶಯೋಕತಿಯೇನಲಲ. ವಿಶೇಷವಾಗಿ ಮೂಕಜಜಿ ಪಾತರದ ಕಲಪನೆ ರೋಮಾಂಚನಕಾರವಾದದದು.ಕಾದಂಬರಿಯ ಮುಖಯ ಪಾತರಧಾರಿ, ಕುತೂಹಲಕಾರನೂ, ಸಂಶೋಧಕನೂ ಆದ ಸುಬಬರಾಯನು ತನನ "ಮೂಕಜಜಿಯ" ಮೂಲಕ, ತನನ ಹಳಳಿಯಲಲಿ ಆಗುವ, ಆಗಿ ಹೋಗಿರುವ ಘಟನೆಗಳನನು ಉಪಯೋಗಿಸಿ, ನಂಬಿಕೆಗಳು, ಮೂಢನಂಬಿಕೆಗಳು, ಪದಧತಿಗಳು, ಆಚರಣೆಗಳು, ಧರಮಗಳು, ದೇವರು-ದೆವವಗಳು, ಸಾವೂ-ಬದುಕುಗಳು, ಪರೀತಿ-ಪರೇಮ,ಸಂಸಾರ-ಸನಯಾಸ, ಜನಮ
ವಿಶೇಷವಾಗಿ ಮೂಕಜ್ಜಿ ಪಾತ್ರದ ಕಲ್ಪನೆ ರೋಮಾಂಚನಕಾರವಾದದ್ದು.ಕಾದಂಬರಿಯ ಮುಖ್ಯ ಪಾತ್ರಧಾರಿ, ಕುತೂಹಲಕಾರನೂ, ಸಂಶೋಧಕನೂ ಆದ ಸುಬ್ಬರಾಯನು ತನ್ನ "ಮೂಕಜ್ಜಿಯ" ಮೂಲಕ, ತನ್ನ ಹಳ್ಳಿಯಲ್ಲಿ ಆಗುವ, ಆಗಿ ಹೋಗಿರುವ ಘಟನೆಗಳನ್ನು ಉಪಯೋಗಿಸಿ, ನಂಬಿಕೆಗಳು, ಮೂಢನಂಬಿಕೆಗಳು, ಪದ್ಧತಿಗಳು, ಆಚರಣೆಗಳು, ಧರ್ಮಗಳು, ದೇವರು-ದೆವ್ವಗಳು, ಸಾವೂ-ಬದುಕುಗಳು, ಪ್ರೀತಿ-ಪ್ರೇಮ,ಸಂಸಾರ-ಸನ್ಯಾಸ, ಜನ್ಮ- ಪುನರ್ಜನ್ಮ ಹೀಗೆ ಮೊದಲಾದವೂಗಳನ್ನು ವ್ಯವಹಾರ ಜ್ಞಾನದ ದೃಷ್ಟಿಕೋನದೊಳಗೆ ತರ್ಕಕ್ಕೆ ಇರಿಸಿದ್ದಾರೆ.
In his Jnanpith Award award winning novel "Mookajjiya Kanasugalu" (Dreams of a Silent Granny), Kota Shivaram Karant, has constructed characters and contexts in a wonderful manner.
The main character of the novel a curious, adventurous common man Subbaraya, with the visions of "Mookajji" and using events of the past and future from his village, reasons out existing beliefs, superstitions, customs, festivals, religions, gods, demons, life,death, love,life after death etc.

Definitely an incredible book for its time. Which is a function of Sivaram Karanth's ability to step outside his culture to take a critical, skeptical look at it. The clarity with which he does is wonderful to read. It helped me see how the ideas and issues that the book tackles could be framed so as to show how everyone is coming at them from the same intention - the desire to live a decent, "good" life. This book's relevance has not reduced in the 40 years since it was published.
Dr. Karanth has pen down this book with lot of thoughts . The very essence of the book lies in its simplicity to question our age old practices through the eyes of an ajji . The conversations she has with his grand son is both revolutionary and thought provoking . If you are comfortable with Kannada spoken in some of the rural villages , then worth a try .
I was thinking twice if I should start this book or not, but once I got the grip of the narration, I could not stop reading. After reading this book, our perceptions towards religions, traditions, God and other ancient believes surely changes. It does makes us think in a broader way. No doubt this book won Jnanapeeta for us :)
Good
OK
Exactly
Ok
It changes the way you see the God. A must read for those who blindly believe spirituality.
I appreciate the authors view on existence or belief of god. It make us to think in terms of these. Have learnt so much from this book :)
Must read
