https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/263919.The_Cage
but now that I am older I find what hits me more is the mental and emotional anguish of these people; realizing you are surrounded by people on the outside who are just going about their daily lives offering no help, knowing that if you survive you will be the only one in your family, wondering how ordinary human beings could turn into such cruel animals, etc.
But, I guess that's why they are called survivors, the people who survived.
They didn't only survive physically but mentally and emotionally as well.
Haunting. I couldn't put it down. A young girl is forced to become a woman at an entirely too young age. The horrors of everyday life for Riva and her family are unimaginable. We should never ever forget what terrible things happened so that they won't ever happen again.
note: My mom knows that the Holocaust is one of my favorite events to study and one of my first loves of history.
(Thank Danielle Steel’s book, Echoes, for that.) Hence why Mom picks up Holocaust books for me whenever she can.
Some things just get lost in translation.I did like this book for the aspect that it was from someone that lived in Poland during World War II.
A lot of Holocaust books, the ones that I have read anyway, are based either in Germany or the UK.
We can never let another event like the Holocaust happen again.
This book makes me cry, no matter how many times I read it. This woman struggle through the jewish concentration camps is epic. A non fiction novel that I enjoy reading because it put life in prosective. A can't even tell you how gloriouse this book is.
I LOOOOOVED this book. The best Holocaust book I've ever read....I would give it 6 stars if I could. This book was life-changing for me, it truly was. The love between the siblings was like no other. "IF THERE IS LIFE, THERE IS HOPE" is something that has been ingrained in my head and my heart forever. I wish I could meet this author, fall to my knees and thank her for sharing her story.
This book is about a young girl who loses her mother in a holocaust raid.
Riva developed an infection in her hand from working in he concentration camp.
She is treated by the kindness of the many officers of the concentration camp, even the commandant.
Riva is freed from the concentration camp, she has a wonderful daughter that always asks her about her grandparents, Rivas parents.
If someone likes books that keep you wondering or that make you understand or feel what the characters are feeling then this is a great book for you.
You will not be able to out the book down.
A well written book. I really enjoyed this book. Ruth Minsky Sender does a great job of telling of her family struggles and survivals.
He notes, however, that Rumkowski had some benevolent tendencies, which he exercised on behalf of the ghetto inhabitants and particularly on behalf of children: “A Zionist, he involved himself in community affairs and managed several orphanages with devotion.
Frequently he made speeches with phrases like ‘I do not like to waste words,’ ‘My plan is based on sound logic’, ‘I have decided,’ ‘I forbid,’ and ‘My Jews.’ Rumkowski presided over his community through periods of starvation and deportations for almost five years” (Perpetrators, Victims and Bystanders, New York: HarperPerennial, 109).To appease Hans Biebow, the ruling Nazi official of the area, and to keep the inhabitants alive, Rumkowski established a ghetto manufacturing economy for the Germans.
This book is filled with cliffhangers making it so hard to stop reading.
Her name is Riva.
Riva is very brave and responsible.
Riva is in the ghetto for the first half of the book.
In part two Riva has to work for the Nazi’s and becomes a poet for the girls there.
I loved the many cliffhangers and all the relationships that were formed in the book.
The ending was truly very emotional and heart racing.
I truly loved this book.
I strongly agree that any lovers oh historical fiction should read this book.
I absolutely loved this book and the moral of it. "As long as there is life, there is hope" is such a great learning experience to all and is used completely through the book. As long as you are alive, you need hope to survive and go along through paths that may be a little bumpy to your destination. This book shows that you need each other to show it and to live through "the cage" of life.
The beginning of this story is told through the flashbacks of Riva, the protagonist, and what it was like having to take care of her siblings and to have to work and work, just to see another day as a Jew during the holocaust.
Riva who was once a positive, carefree girl is forced to take on many responsibilities at a really young age and has to quickly learn to take care of herself and those around her if she wants them to survive.
This book is a story of love and hope, and each and every page will fill you with grief for those who had to live through the holocaust.
It's hard to objectively rate (or review) a book you've read since it was age appropriate.
As an adult I'd probably give it a star less, but when I first got this book I thought it was wonderful, and read it many times.
The author's funny habit of not mentioning characters and long-standing important relationship to them until they have an interaction with the reader (at which point she goes back and explains their importance) left me feeling that the book was not ENTIRELY well thought out.
" When there is life, there is hope" is the quote that the teenage girl received from her mother before the nazis separated her from her mother and her brother, Riva is alone sent her to concentration camp.
Life has just gone bad for the poor girl, not only is she alone and scared but she is sick.
With all her hope and courage she stays strong, for her family as well as the other victims of the Holocaust.
Everyday she got through her hard times by following her mother's quote and reminding her to stay strong and never give up.
It was a very most interesting book that I haven't ever read this book like this.My favorite character was Riva Minska.
She was a very responsible child, taking care of her three brothers.
She was worried about what might be happened to her brothers.
She left with my other cousin to U.S. So, when my older cousin stayed with his younger brother and youngest sister in Mexico to take care of them.
In me, is like when most of the time, while our parents go to work, I would take care of my little sister.
This is an autobiographical account of Riva's life as a young girl in Lodz, Poland.
Riva, her mother, and her three brothers live in a ghetto there at the start of World War II.
Riva's story mirrors those of other Holocaust novels I have read, and it definitely hits home about the atrocities of this genocide and the strength of the Jewish men, women, and children who lived in the ghettos, workers' camps, and concentration camps.
Riva's mother taught her children how to be strong and always said, "As long as their is life, there is hope." This mantra helped Riva to survive World War II.
As long as there is life, there is hope I found this to be one of the most innocent memoirs of the holocaust that I have ever read.
I wouldn’t give a young teen Night but I would give them this book.
This book is defiantly a good introduction to the horrors of the concentration camps.
It still amazes me that any of this was ever allowed to happen.
I am so glad that God preserved her so that she could bring hope and encouragement to the women around her and so that she would survive to be able to tell her story.
The author expresses her feelings in a new better way than other Holocaust authors write.
I think that Sender made me to realize how gruesome the Holocaust was and how lucky I am to be alive.
The Holocaust was one of the scariest events; Sender has survived it with hope and then has written about it.
Therefore, I think I should live with hope no matter how hard life is.
Riva said, “As long as there is life there is hope.” This statement has inspired me to think we should not give up our lives.
I am thankful that Riva/Ruth lived her mother's motto of "If there is life there is hope." Without her survival we would not have her account of life in the ghetto and in a labor camp.
Thank you Riva/Ruth for sharing your story with us.
We are reading it for our book club this month.
I love the simple way Riva (Ruth) tells her story.
I love her story of trying to save the books that the Germans would burn.
I still do not understand how people could have treated other people so horribly.
I just don't understand it.
This book is called The Cage and this book is about a girl named Riva that she is by the nazis along
I rarely have never read a Holocaust book, and this is my first.
I hesitated to read this book, because I would not want to have the same nightmares as the story would have.
But with my homework being in my father's car, and 2 hours to spare, I begin reading the first chapter, which I must say, is absolutely enticing.
Although I cannot say I absolutely love the ending, I do love the story, and the characters, and- and...
It makes me horribly sad to just think about all those tortured human beings, being treated like "cows", animals.
This was more like a window to the past.
The Cage is a wonderfully written book of the Holocaust. The Cage is the story of a Polish Jewish family with a brief glimpse into their live prior to the invasion by the Nazis. It follows their life as family members and friends are killed or taken away by the Nazis never to be heard from again. It covers their life in the Polish Ghetto to the concentration camps and finally liberation. It gives the reader into a glimpse into the the life of Jews outside of Germany. I am putting this book in our school library.
Very instense book. very education about the holocaust.
Every chapter I read was immensely well written with emotion, for example, when they were eating the tangerine.
A real Tangerine in the ghetto in our home in my mouth?" The emotions of disbelief I visualized in her face.
There were many examples of sacrifice in this book, such as getting the tangerine.
Ruth Sender didn't leave one piece of detail out, explaining her survival and struggles throughout the book from start to finish, from when she was in the unwashed ghetto too when she was in the corps infested concentration camps.
I saw the themes and the meanings behind the novel fairly easy to find.
The holocaust is a very good example of hate and fearing what we don't understand, it's something we still struggle with as humans and are still learning to conquer.
They may break your heart but it's something I believe everybody can learn from and should read at least once in your life time.
I loved this book I always wanted to read this book and I finally got my hands on a copy, this book will break your heart in the so little words it has, I love books that may look so tiny on the outside but have so much feeling a grip you so unexpectedly and hit you so hard!
The Cage is a fast paced story, and about the hardship and cruelty of being a Jewish person.
Riva, the perspective and main character of the story has to get through life, after everything is taken away from her.
In the beginning of the book, you figure out that her mom is taken away from the Nazis.
Her decisions change her life, even one little thing she did, with a risk.
Just from the book, you can jump in the shoes of Riva, and feel how cruel it was, just because you were Jewish.
Ruth Sender's memoir almost had me in tears a couple of times and I found that I had to put the book down a few times just to walk away from the heaviness of it all for a bit.
The Cage is 100% worth your time, a super quick read packed with devastating, gut-wrenching true twists and turns that will have you devouring the chapters in record time.
And that loophole is memoirs (not sure if that's good or bad news).
That being said The Cage affected me deeply and if you're into more morbid, devastating memoirs this is definitely one to pick up in the future.
It all began when Ruth’s daughter, whose mom originally went by Riva, asked why everyone else had grandparents and she didn’t.
All that led to was Ruth explaining her life living under the control of Nazis and eventually being able to survive.
How she found a pencil and would write poems, but when a Nazi found out he ended up giving her blood poisoning from beating her so hard.
It shows all of the fear and love and the longing for a family again, all because of the Nazis.
In the end, this book touched my heart through Riva and all that she had been through in her life.
The Cage follows the experience of 13 year old Riva and her life throughout the war.
Riva's three older siblings knew the war was coming so they moved away to a safe place to avoid the Nazis.
Riva, her mother, and her three younger brothers attempt to continue life as it has always been.
Life goes on until Riva's mother is taken away.
Suddenly Riva must become mother, father, and the older sister to her younger brothers.
I really enjoyed this book and loved how detailed it was.
I would suggest this book to middle school students.
The Cage by Ruth Minsky Sender is an amazing true story (memoir) about a teenage girl's experience during the holocaust.
She has to step in as the new mother of her family to take care of her younger siblings.
The author teaches many lessons throughout the book, including that in dire times, even the youngest of humans can take a leadership role.
Not only does Riva (the girl; Ruth) step in for when their mother is taken, but the younger brothers actually go and get themselves jobs so they can help to support each other.
*** 3.5 stars ***The Cage was a haunting story of survival and the atrocities committed by the Nazis during the Holocaust.
The story did make the Germans appear a bit more human as if the author was afraid to paint the darker parts of the journey.
Everything felt a bit distant at times and when I held my breath because something terrible was going to happen after Riva made a particular choice, nothing did.
I did enjoy it and it is a memoir, but I had a feeling that the author was playing it safe at times.
