https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19154.The_Dor_Illustrations_for_Dante_s_Divine_Comedy
Publisher's NoteList of Plates--The Doré Illustrations for Dante's Divine Comedy
While I don't have much to say in this case since I am not an art critic I will simply comment that I am a huge fan of Dore's illustrations and I was extremely amazed when I first saw them. The illustrations capture so much of the essence of the poem that you would have thought that Dante personally commissioned Dore to draw these. My personal favorite of these is the Celestial Rose (From Canto 31 of the Paradisio): My first time using an image in my review.
I don't think I could have made it through the Divine Comedy without having this book to, pun fully intended, illustrate many of the key moments and characters for me.
Dore's illustrations are beautiful, revolting, intriguing and mezmerizing- you find new things in them every time you look through them, and if you're also currently reading the Divine Comedy, as I was when I purchased this book, they are arranged in the order in which they correspond to the text, making for a nice break when ploughing through the more tepid parts of the Paradiso and Purgatorio.
A resenha completa pode ser lida no Virtual Illusion emhttps://virtual-illusion.blogspot.pt/...
I'm reading the book AND looking at these illustrations as I go. I've never read it, and I thought it was time to go to "hell" as it were!
The Dore woodblocks are exquisitely detailed and simply stunning. These works definitely make an impression.
Vivified Dante's poetry and imagination in ways the text(s) I read didn't. NOW, maybe, I can truly appreciate the sage of Florence...
Batushka beautifully complements Doré’s cadaveric illustrations.
I'm only familiar with scenes from the Inferno, I haven't gotten around to reading Purgatorio or Paradiso.
A plate of interest is the one exhibited on the cover and page 58, with men tearing themselves open and one (Bertram de Born) holding his head like a lantern.
Arachne chose as the subject of her tapestry the fornication of the gods, so Athena turned her into a half-spider.
Doré's depiction (p94) of Arachne features mammalian legs (I doubt he'd ever seen a spider up close, nor would readers recognize segmented insect legs if they saw them) but the languishing nudity of the image is remarkable.
from the Publisher's Note:"Dore first seriously entertained the idea of illustrating Dante's DIVINE COMEDY in a large folio edition in 1855.
When he was finished, he found that no publisher was willing to undertake the work; it was generally held that so large a volume would have to be sold at a prohibitively high price.
Undaunted, Dore published the plates and text at his own expense in 1861.
In 1868 work on the PURGATORIO and PARADISO was finished, and the complete DIVINE COMEDY was published by L.
Не харесвам особено "Ад", а и преводът на Константин Величков не е особено четивен, но пък илюстрациите са невероятни.
Beautiful, gorgeous, and a great companion to the Divine Comedy (especially the Inferno).
Beautiful.
25 öre kostade den här boken på sin tid, och det märks. Verserna under bilderna är alldeles för snålt tilltagna. Det går inte att läsa verket som en sammanhängande text. Introduktionen ger bara en skissartad överblick. Varför inte publicera hela dikten? Eller trycka bilderna i större format, utan text?Som det är nu ödar läsaren sin kraft helt i onödan.
I'm a fan of Dore's etchings and was looking for a while to buy a nice art album. This is not that. To be honest this is the worst album I have ever seen. The paper is is telephone book quality and the printing resolution is garbage, most of the digital images give you the better detail. This book has no purpose whatsoever, but I might be using it to prop my table.
Magnificent.
A nice companion to reading Dan Brown's "Inferno." Summertime reading as the season unofficially comes to the end.
Doré's choice of Dante'sInferno as the first of his proposed series of illustrated masterpieces of literature reflects the extent to which Dante had attained popular appeal in France by the 1860s.Finding it difficult to secure a publisher willing to take on the expense of producing the expensive folio edition the artist envisioned, Doré himself financed the publication of the first book of the series, Inferno, in 1861.
Subsequently, Doré's Dante illustrations appeared in roughly 200 editions, with translations from the poet's original Italian available in multiple languages.Of Doré's literary series, few enjoyed as great a success as his Commedia illustrations.
This is a book of artwork for The Divine Comedy.
The illustrations are in black and white, but are astonishing and wonderful.
I got this to enhance my study of The Divine Comedy.
Well worth it.
You can see these same illustrations online here.
Though only in black and white, I actually prefer these illustrations over the William Blake ones that are in color.
They are more complete and realized.
I recommend keeping this book with you while you read The Divine Comedy.
It will add much to your study.
Each image is accompanied by two or three lines of the text that the image pertains to.
The text is taken from the serviceable Longfelow translation of the poem, but I also chose to follow allow in my Mandelbaum translation which also helped with clarifying the context of certain images.Dore's imagination was tremendous and shows in these works.
From the macabre grotesqueries of the Inferno to the ethereal otherworldliness of Paradiso, this imagery brings Dante's Commedia to incredible life.A must have for any Dante lover.
These chilling depictions of an even more grotesque novella add an understanding to Dante's strange works that are unprecedented. Doré takes us through Purgatory, Inferno and finally Paradiso via his amazing wood carvings that have enviable details and such imagination that I can no longer picture the scenes otherwise. The Divine Comedy is a truly divinely-inspired work that will continue to leave readers in awe for centuries to come.
These plates are exquisite, and the reproductions are Fine. Each plate is accompanied with lines from Henry Wadsworth Longfellow's translation of Dante's work. There is something magical about all these fleshy figures—their trials and tribulations... and there is something glorious about the ascent—all the way up to a swarm of angels.It is a great companion piece to the Divine Comedy.
The Wikipedia site gives information and examples of Dore's art. When I taught the INFERNO by Dante, I would give the students this book, since it is so unique. Dore actually drew onto blocks of wood, and then his assistants would carve the block, so all the prints are wood engravings. Dore also illustrated many other works--I can't recommend his work highly enough.
The epic of Catholic Christianity. Read for'Dante and His Age' taught by Enrica Glickman. The journey to the pit of Hell then up Mount Purgatory then across the river of light to Paradise and the celestial rose is an awesome literary feat of imagination and intellect. Prefer the Dorothy L. Sayers translation. Invaluable for understanding William Blake, T. S. Eliot, Gustave Dore and others.
I have read this version of Dante's Divine Comedy several times, and I love it more each time. The story never changes but it just seems more magical in this version. The illustrations are beautifully done and very reflective of the story. A little grim and a little darker than just the original story, but I would recommend reading this version over any other.
This is the art book from Gustave Dore, where he draws the important aspects of Dante's Divine Comedy. This is great art book to have, to just sit back and look and admire the horror that Dore drew from the inspiration of words from Dante.
Awsome illustrations of a classic piece of literature.If you like graphic narratives with a dark twist this is definitely worth checking out. Was produced quite some time ago too which makes it all the more impressive.
Arguable the most sublime collection of illustrative woodcuts every created. Get a good edition of the entire 136 plate collection and marvel and the sheer beauty of the dense line work and how it creates such amazing atmosphere to conver scenes of heaven and hell.
Exceptional reading of the details that portray the struggle of man kinds struggles to maintain the sanity that good and evil exist in the same place here on earth. A definite read for everyone, one that I will read again.
Dore's copperplate engravings are beautiful, and this book collects them all!
