https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/207153.Shiloh
You need to understand that I avoided the book, because even though I loved the two dogs I grew up with and I liked a few more that I met along the way in my life, I am not a true animal lover.
I admire the book for facing such a deep problem in human nature, by raising the questions we all need to face, in a simple story.
The fact that such deep questions can be raised in a tale of a boy who wants a dog is a tribute to Ms. Naylor's storytelling ability.
I understand, though maybe you’ve come around to the idea that there really is nothing wrong with silly love songs and Paul McCartney’s alright too.Never mind the Beatles, you may be rebelling against Green Day for all I know.No matter, you’ll probably love Shiloh despite that cover, despite that dog so prominent in the foreground.
Judd doesn’t treat his dogs the way Marty would and eventually Marty decides he’s got to do something about it, at least for the dog that followed him home.It’s a heart-warming tale, not a shoot ‘em up - realistic fiction, they call it.
Shiloh is a dog who has been abused and runs away from his owner Judd Travers.
Marty finds the dog and loves Shiloh and gives him a safe place to live.
He is lying to everyone and Judd wants his dog back.
This is a nuanced story about who you think people are and how life is really full of grey in this world.
I did end up enjoying this book.
It's just not really my kind of story.
This is actually a very deep book that says a whole lot while minding it's own business.
I'm still glad I read the book.
this was the best book ever you guys should read it! i swear that it is a good book also you could watch the movie the first movie is called Shiloh and the secont one is called Saving Shiloh just to let you know you can get the movie at Hastings and you can get the book at any libary the author is Phyllis Reynolds Nalor! i hope you read it or watch it !
I loved this book it was a battle of the books book at our school two years ago and I loved this book.
Marty loves the dog deeply and gets in trouble trying to care for him.Marty secrets are becoming larger: A lie.
Funny how one lie leads to another and before you know it, your whole life can be a lie.His love to the dog is heartwarming, and the fear of Judd (who Marty encounters a lot) does not prevent from Marty to still put the dog as top priority.
Ma says Jesus don't go around making anyone blind, but Grandma Preston always used it as a warning and she went to church Sunday morning and evening both.Shiloh won the Newberry Award for Literature, and rightfully so.
My partner and I really liked the book and I really got sad when the dog Shiloh got injured by the stupid German Shepperd it for me was very sad and did not think the dog would make it
✩ 4 Stars ✩
5 saoMôt gia đinh không lây lam kha gia, viêc ăn uông hăng ngay cung phai goi ghem tiêt kiêm.
Bố hiên lanh, lam nghê đưa thư trong vung ai cung quy mên.
Mẹ thi nôi trơ ơ nha, nâu ăn rât ngon va rât hiêu thăng con minh, chăng gi qua măt đươc me.
2 đưa em gai be nho rât quy mên va tin lơi anh.
Đoc vê gia đinh nay ma minh cam thây đươc sư âm ap va hanh phuc tran
Bên cạnh đó, cốt truyện cũng được tác giả đầu tư chất xám vào, không như một số sách thiếu nhi khác có tư duy "lười biếng" trong việc xây dựng tình huống, và xử lý nó thì hết sức đơn giản, đọc phần đầu tới phần cuối cứ trôi thẳng đuột ấy.
Một cuốn sách mỏng ơi là mỏng mà khiến mình trong lúc đọc phải ngừng mấy lần để thả hồn vào thế giới tươi đẹp đó, để hết ohh lại aww với suy nghĩ của cậu bé Marty.
Newbery Medal: 1992Much more than a story about a boy and his dog...Shiloh is a story of compassion, determination and struggling with stretching the truth to accomplish a goal that is character worthy.
Is omitting information the same as lying, especially if it prevents abuse?
When he realizes it belongs to Judd Travers, his heart drops because he knows Judd is mean and abusive to his animals.
When the dog comes back the second time, Marty secretly hides him.
Marty hopes he hasn't made a pact with the devil, but only time will tell.
This was a really sad book and hated reading it. If you like depressing books then you'll like this one.
A very good book with a boy that loves his dog.
Naylor asks some very interesting questions for parents to discuss with their kids, and even one another, questions that don't necessarily have a right or wrong answer.Marty comes across a distressed young dog one day, and it follows him home.
Judd has a reputation for mistreating his animals, and for this reason Marty wants to keep the dog, who he names Shiloh, but his parents tell him he can't.
He couldn't forgive himself for returning an innocent animal to someone who will not treat it with love.Surprisingly, Judd, is very well-developed for being the villain of a young adult novel.
Marty decides to name the dog Shiloh.
Shiloh apparently belongs to Judd Travers that uses Shiloh as his hunting dog.
Marty knows that Judd abuses his dogs and refuses to give him back.
Shiloh then escapes from Judd and goes with Marty.
Marty knows that he can’t keep him so he goes and hides Shiloh in the hills.
Marty realizes that it is not safe for Shiloh to be alone in the hills so he decides to buy Shiloh from Judd.
I would use this book with my upper elementary students.
I would have students discuss the importance of being transparent and being honest.
I'm finally back on the Newbery train!
I guess it was realistic, but I would have liked to see some sort of revenge worked out upon the antagonist, who was sort of a mystery character.
The main character was likable and easy to relate to, but I found the story mostly mundane.
Sorry, Newbery.
Maybe next time.
Or maybe I'm just running out of all the good titles considering I'm just over halfway through the challenge.
I am curious about the sequel, though, if it continues from the ending or if it's a completely different story.
Animal abuse is just not right. And people sould treat them as if it were them. This booktakes place in Friendly, West Virginia. It's is told in the first-person point of view. Marty, the protagonist, finds Shiloh, a dog who was abused by his owner, Judd Travers. So, Shiloh runs away to Marty, and he tries to go out of his way to protect Shiloh. But even though marty tries his hardest, it's just to hard for him to keep the secret. This book is a rael tear dropper.There are very emotional parts i
Marty, the protagonist, finds Shiloh, a dog who was abused by his owner, Judd Travers.
So, Shiloh runs away to Marty, and he tries to go out of his way to protect Shiloh.
But even though marty tries his hardest, it's just to hard for him to keep the secret.
I liked how the author wrote the story from the first-person point of view so that I know what the protagonist was thinking during a dramtic part of the book.
I would definetly reccomend this book to middle schoolers or anyone that likes a real tear dropper
"Nobody else loves you as much as a dog.
Except your ma, maybe."Oh, how true.
This is a sweet tale about a boy and the dog he loves, who finds out right and wrong aren't always cut and dry.Appropriate for ages 8-11, it's still a favorite for many kids.
I'm giving three stars partly because I'm not sure the that technology/information savvy children of today relate to the naive main character the way kids did when it was originally published.
This book was about a boy who finds a hurt beagle and tries to hide him so he can keep him.I loved when Marty was always sneaking food out of the house to feed Shiloh. I also loved how Marty kept on lying to save the dog. I learned if you kill a deer out of season it is a crime.This book turned out happy because Marty ended up keeping Shiloh.
Obviously, the central question is whether it is okay to lie in order to protect someone helpless (the dog, in this case).
Meanwhile, rather than making Marty actually struggle and decide to suffer the consequences for his actions, the story resolves itself through two deus ex machina (or rather canis ex machina and cervus ex machina) events.
For the elementary school child reading such a book, its emotional appeal will almost certainly work its magic to override any compunctions.In the end, Shiloh, for all its surface morality, has almost nothing to contribute to building a child's character.
There are better boy-and-his-dog stories to offer children.
Naylor narrates the story very well through Marty’s perspective, and she is so descriptive of the characters, scenes and emotions that words on paper are turned into visuals in the reader’s mind.
Naylor does such an excellent job of making the characters’, including the dog’s, personalities so convincing that a reader feels like part of the story.Grades 5-7Language arts/science/service learningStudents can write a paper that compares and contrasts the protagonist and antagonist.
Students can explore topics in class discussion and essays related to ethical dilemmas and the exploitation of animals.
For a science lesson, students can research the topic of exploitation of various populations of endangered animals.
Specifically, I loved the way Phyllis Reynolds Naylor describes each character and what is happening in the story.
One of the questions I would ask would be, "If you were Marty what would you have done and why?" I would also ask, "Is it ever ok to break the rules like Marty did and if so, when is it ok?" This book provides a great opportunity to talk about right and wrong and all of the shades of gray in between.
That is why I believe Shiloh is a great book to use in Literature Circles.
Maybe it was a slow year in children's books.Maybe the judges felt that the portrayal of the poor family with hardly enough food to eat, with a son who sleeps on the couch because they don't have enough rooms or beds, was distinguished.
Maybe they felt the portrayal of the law breaking, poaching, dog abusing neighbor was distinguished.
Maybe they thought that the 11 year old boy Marty lying repeatedly to his family, and hiding the dog in his attempt to save it from the dog abusing neighbor, was distinguished.
For me, distinguished means commanding respect.
This book did not command my respect.
Most decisions and choices and situations are in the murky, middle, where Right and Wrong are not clear.
The boy (and the reader) wants to demonize him and put him into the clear Bad category, but...then we get to know a few more facts about him towards the end and the boy sees that while Judd clearly is a bad guy, knowing where h comes from--and nobly giving him the opportunity for Judd to show that he is possible of Good...Judd is in the grey area as well.
Such a good lesson, for little and big readers.
Shiloh by Phyllis Reynolds Naylor is the great story of Marty and a dog who he names Shiloh.
When he gets home his father tell's him that it is Marty's neighbor, Judd Travers dog.
He knows that Judd mistreat his dogs and can tell this dog has had the same treatment.
I won't spoil the end but definitely read the book to find out.I thought this was a very emotional book as the plot changes a lot.
The author was able to show the deeper of emotions of Marty very well too.
This book was a great book and a book that anyone can read.
So . . . I may have read this in my youth? Or not? I had it in my head this was a sad book along the lines of Dear Mr. Henshaw and was sad to see it on the OBOB list for 3-5 grade this year . . . and then I read it. It's not sad! It's a good boy and his dog tale about growing up, loving those who need us (human and animal alike), and getting what you want by sticking with it and working for it. Yay!
This was such a great little book! Looking forward to reading this with my class soon!
So happy!Made my heart smile.Chapters 9 & 10 are the sadest. Get ready to hold back some tears!
it was so interesting getting ready to read #2
The main character Marty wants to get this dog from the enemy Judd Travers because the dog gets all beat up kicked.
That to is illegal but when you think about it the dog was beaten and almost killed s t just seems right to take the dog away.
Judd has just beaten him and its only illegal to kill him so the dog should still automatically be his.
Judds point of view was that marty taking the dog was illegal because Judd payed for it.
Judd has broken the law more but he still is right that Mrty should not have the dog.
She took great care of the dog, but man did I love that beagle.
I've had a fondness for beagles for most of my life as a result, though they aren't a dog I would personally own.
Shiloh is a book that centers around the notion of when, and how, one should act when they come up against something as terrible as animal cruelty.
These questions, and more, Marty struggles with with the fate of Shiloh and his love of the dog overriding all else.This book is full of tough questions, and tough characters.
