https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29236299-gemina
Like so: JEM-ih-nuh.Is GEMINA still set aboard the Hypatia?GEMINA is primarily set on Jump Station Heimdall, the space station that Battlecarrier Alexander and Science Vessel Hypatia were trying to get to for most of ILLUMINAE.
You can thank us later, ladies.Hey, didn't ILLUMINAE mention that Kady’s dad works on Heimdall station?Bingo.So what’s GEMINA about?The official jacket copy can be found at the top of this page.
:)Is GEMINA going to be the same format as ILLUMINAE?Yes. Just like ILLUMINAE, GEMINA is a collection of documents, such as emails, IMs, security camera footage (and yes, Security Camera Footage guy is back in this book, too).
Threw my emotions onto a roller coaster ride into space and through wormholes and just every which way.
It was kind of exhausting reading this, but in such a good way.
Man. Oh man <3*EDIT*Third time reading this I listened to the audiobook.
If you have the opportunity to experience it on audio (even both audio & physically read) I WOULD RECOMMEND YOU DO IT.
With a cast of characters and sound effects, the listening experience is EPIC.The story is also pretty epic, too.
These books kill me.Review copy provided by authors in exchange for an honest review.
THIS WAS GREAT. So many aspects of this book BLEW MY MIND. I'm so curious to find out how this story is going to come to a close in the last book! More thoughts here: https://youtu.be/GmfyLOk3-_I?t=2m17s
I LOVED THIS ONE. LISTEN TO THE AUDIO BOOK. HERE'S MY FULL BOOKTALK: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PyapO...
THIS SERIES IS SO COOL. I love the setting, the characters, the story, and especially the format! Piecing together the story through these "hacked" documents and messages just makes for an AWESOME reading experience, and I cannot wait for book 3!
Re read on Audio before Obsidio gets here soon!!! The audio was fanfreakingtastic! ❤Sometimes I re-read my reviews & they are moronic!I wanted to do this big thing. I immediately took the cover off to see what the hardback looked like and loved it. I even painted my nails blue to go with the book and I had on blue lipstick but you could still see my stupid fever blister. . . so. . . the kiss I was going to blow, just No. So the lipstick I put beside the book. Everything is so beautiful blue!
I love Hanna Donnelly and Nik Malikov!
Hanna, Nik and Ella are just awesome in this book.
Donnelly, C: Yes. I couldn't help but notice a rather obnoxious pop song playing through the elevator PA on the way to meet with strategy this morning.
Donnelly, C: But then I noticed the same song playing when I got on the elevators to Reactor Control twenty minutes ago.
Grant, I: Yeah, it's playing on all the elevators.
Donnelly, C: It's playing on all the elevators, Isaac.
Donnelly, C: What the devil is it doing playing on my elevators?
Re-read: February 12th 2018 Gemina was one of the best things that happened to me in 2016!
I am aware this quote is from the first book, but i just can't deal with how great it is.
. .[NO RESPONSE][CALL DISCONNECTED]How do you review a book like this?
LISTEN TO THE DAMN BOOK!Not into Sci-fi?
READ THE DAMN BOOK!
Don't like books with pictures?
JUST LOOK AT THE DAMN BOOK!
This is possibly the most hypnotizing book I've ever seen.
Illuminae was beautiful, but this is taking things on the whole nother level.
But why is it over? Why must we wait for so long until the next one? I'll be honest, I loved Illuminae & was skeptical of all the hype saying Gemina was better, but after finishing this I almost want to go back and adjust my Illuminae rating to a 4 and keep this at a 5. It was just an entire star better. All my thoughts are muddled so I'll try to come back and give this a proper review when things settle down, but just know I loved this. So many feels. 💙
I didn't enjoy this quite as much as Illuminae but it still was really enjoyable! I'll go more into depth in a video review soon!
NO SPOILERS BELOWGemina was one hell of a ride! It was great but I must admit, not as great as Illuminae for sure. BUT... it was still mindblowing nonetheless. I will write a full review once we get closer to release day but I've included a few pros and cons down below. PROS: 1. BAD ASS NEW CHARACTERS: Hesistant about Gemina focusing on a new set of characters? Don't be!2. PLOT: This book will leave you mind-freakin-blown!3. FORMAT: If you made it through Illuminae, you already got used to the f
I will write a full review once we get closer to release day but I've included a few pros and cons down below.
PLOT: This book will leave you mind-freakin-blown!3.
PLOT: The excitement oscillates up and down throughout the whole book.
At times, the story and our characters' actions did feel a little repetitive.3.
LACK OF ATTACHMENT TO CHARACTERS: In Illuminae, we were constantly in fear of every single character being killed off or getting infected with Phobos, which included even the minor side characters.
Unfortunately, I wasn't really attached to anyone but the three new main characters.
< review loading >< error > < error >< review now fully loaded >  4.5/5 BR with this Chum  "It may comfort you to know that your death, while astonishingly violent, will likely be mercifully swift."  ^^ accurate picture of my face when the action started.Okay so let me start by saying this book was awesome. I enjoyed reading it so much. I feel like this book should be illegal it's that good. The plot was fast paced and full of twists. This book is FUCKING EXCITING? I fe
I love sci fi and this story is a fine example of sci fi at its best, it's different, it's unique and it's fun to read.
so this book was pretty corny and a few things that happen I felt like I wanted to bang my head on a wall because it was so idiotic and predictable.
I even felt like Hanna had the same personality as Kady from book one.
Book two is a little more light hearted and fun.Okay so this is gonna sound weird but I like Kady more then Hanna..
Hanna is a total badass but I like Kady's character/personality more she's my little Rebel.
Surveillance footage summary,prepared byAnalyst ID 8759-6294-DNSubject has decided, against our better judgement I might add, to continue reading The Illuminae Files and so here I am again writing up ANOTHER summary.
I found myself calling Hanna by Kady's name while discussing the book, and so I would've liked a little more individuality between the two.► The data analyst summaries contain an unrealistic amount of information.
This review and other reviews of mine can be found on Book Nest!Buddy Read with my lovelies Celeste and Haifa!!***Special thank you to Kainat for gifting me with my copy of Gemina & recommending the series!***
I listened to it on audiobook and I would HIGHLY recommend!
(if you're afraid of missing out on all the beautiful artwork, its easy to listen and flip through the images when you can) I don't think I missed out on anything despite it being such a visual story; The production of the audiobook is the best I think I've ever heard.
The new characters/perspective were really interesting and it was natural to ease into their story.
Hannah and Nick are two of my new favorites and I hope we get to see more of them in the future!
congratulations! semifinalist in goodreads' best YA fantasy & science fiction category 2016!i read this last week when i was sick in bed the day after halloween, needing a guaranteed fast, fun, escapist book to breeze through while huddled under the covers with a giant pot of halloween candy in easy reach.  best sick day ever. this book may be even better than Illuminae, even though it is similar in many ways.the same beautiful design and layout is back:   and this time there are some fun ca
semifinalist in goodreads' best YA fantasy & science fiction category 2016!i read this last week when i was sick in bed the day after halloween, needing a guaranteed fast, fun, escapist book to breeze through while huddled under the covers with a giant pot of halloween candy in easy reach.
best sick day ever.
the action in this book takes place immediately after the events aboard the Hypatia so excellently rendered in Illuminae.
it's funny and smart with some great new characters and several old favorites and the world-building and dirty dealings are fantastic, and this praise is coming from someone who is usually bored by books set in outer spaaaaace.
4.5 Starsahhh!! I still love it!! RTC--------------- Yes, I am reading this again.  Third time and I feel no shame. These books are so much fun??First-buddy read with the lovely maybelline ❤️
So basically I am a huge fan of Nik and every time something bad happened to him I turned into a toaster strudel left out in the rain.
And obviously bad stuff happens to Nik all the time because he's precious.NO wait.
Bad stuff happens to everyone all the time because they're precious and these authors are the cruellest beans of the world and I love them.So it does have a similar plot set up to Illuminae in that we have two teens who have to save a lot of people.
2.5⭐What was going through my head while I was reading this?✨ I could get used to this thrill ride. Lightning struck twice. ✨ I hate these characters. Every last one of them. ✨ I miss the Illuminae gang. Every last one of them. So, here's the thing, I didn’t have the highest of hopes going into Gemina and that's not exactly how I usually start books. Granted, that's not how most people start books either but because these books are deeply character-driven novels, I knew from the reviews I'd read
What follows is an intense sci-fi action, some impressive twists and turns, zombie-like viruses with a knack for human flesh and some overly dry dialogues filled with snark and non-stop teen drama, both of which were my absolute least favourites.Though I will add this, where Illuminae shined with its characters, Gemina shined with its high-stakes plot and some pretty neat illustrations, most of which I would've uploaded had I known how to.
With Illuminae, I had such strong connections with each of the characters including the minor ones that I was clutching my book so tightly, reading while my heart was racing, terrified over what would come next.
IT WAS EVEN BETTER THE SECOND TIME I JUST CANT If I could give this book 10 stars I wouldn't hesitate; hell, even a million stars wouldn't do it justice.
AMAZING.
The plot around Heimdall Station: SUSPENSEFUL The new characters, Hanna & Nik: KICK ASSThe return of beloved characters: PERFECTThe introduction of new, crazy points in the story: MIND BLOWING The storytelling format: GETS BETTER WITH EVERY BOOK Literally everything in Gemina was brilliant.
Brilliant and cunning and witty and amazing.
I can't find ANYTHING I didn't like or would change, and I can't even fathom to imagine what will take place in the third book!
„War does not determine who is right - only who is left.“  Story ⭐⭐⭐⭐Did you ever think about the theory that our reality exist of many universes? That maybe, in another universe, you’re not a reader (😱) but a gamer or something else. There’s another version of you, or two or three. I need to say, that I’m probably not that smart that I could actually explain you this theory, but in this book this theory is called Gemina. (Like the freakin book.)Beitech did some real sh*t on Karenza (we can all
(there’s always a but isn’t there?)But I didn’t like the sequel as much as I loved the first book.
(Hint: flowers and cigarettes) But even though I really liked all the characters mentioned in this book, i didn’t really feel them.
It’s still one of the most special books I have ever read and probably ever will and that’s why I’m not sad that I didn’t love this as much as I loved Illuminae, because that means that there’s still a huge possibility that I’ll love Obsidio (that I already have in my hands while finishing this review).
4.5 estrellas Si tuviera que describir este libro con un sólo GIF, lo haria con este:SO DAMN GOOD. DAAAAYUM.
We follow Hannah (?), our main character/pretty lil rich girl; Nik, her sexual harasser who is supposedly charming; and Ella, THE LOVE OF MY LIFE.
The...old characters………If you have read my Illuminae review, you know that I hate Kady, the first book’s version of Hanna.And guess who shows up pretty goddamn often?If you guessed “that pink haired, defined-by-her-effortless-beauty identity-less buffoon,” you are correct.If you guessed “said buffoon’s love interest, who Emma actually likes, and is charming and funny and has a - gasp!
I kept hearing how the second book of this series is even better than the first and...
no.I listened to the audiobook since it was recommended and I think it may have been a mistake.
There's only so many times you can hear the dates and email address of people before wanting to throw your phone at the wall.Hearing adults read cringy flirty teenager conversations was awkward and I didn't care for any of the characters.I honestly thought throughout the whole book about DNFing...
some parts were okay enough for me to keep pushing but it wasn't worth it.Won't continue the series - generous 3 stars!
I wasn't sure how I was going to like this one. Throughout at least half of the book, I was thinking it was going to be only 3 stars. But the ending punched it into a 4 star slot, topping it off with another cliffhanger ending. Full video review will be up on my channel closer to release!
Tbh, I think I may have enjoyed this a little more than Illuminae.
Lmao I started this back in January as a buddy read and for some odd reason, I got bored of the book and stopped reading it.
Now, three whole freaking months later, I continue it again and FUCKING LOVED IT!
I don't even know why I stopped reading it.
Ok, going on with my review: IF YOU HAVEN'T READ THIS BOOK OR THIS SERIES YET, PICK IT UP.
Guys like him are my type, if you know what I mean ;) I'm done now.
Parallels of universes, worlds, characters, it’s all molded so seamlessly.
:) Damn, that ending – especially making me wait an  entire  year before releasing the next one!!!
*chaotic screaming*I know I’m making less sense in this review than I did in my  Illuminae  review (and let’s be honest here, that’s saying something) but I URGE you to read this book because I have read no other book comparable.
(also it’s really late at night and I’m suffering from post-book-completion-hangover and I have a lot of emotions in my heart and I just can’t write coherently.)Read it please??
Motherfucker of a story. I just read this 600+ page monster in one sitting, that's how epic it was. As suspenseful, charming and gritty as its predecessor albeit fantastically uniquely so. The wait for book 3 will be crushing.
I loved Kady, Ezra, and AIDAN in the last book and was basically just hanging in there to see them show up.
I think the part that made me kind of more neutral about this book was (view spoiler)[how people DIDN'T STAY DEAD.
That fakeout was a fun twist with Ezra in the first book, but it just felt like the same thing all over again.
I like it when people stay properly dead...
And I added an extra star because Kady and Ezra showed up and reminded me how much I loved Illuminae.
1.) Illuminae ★★★★  “Patience and Silence had one beautiful daughter. And her name was Vengeance.”  You all, I just don’t know what to say. This series just doesn’t do for me what it does for everyone else. I don’t dislike these books at all, they just aren’t even close to being one of my all time favorites either. Please, take this review with a grain of salt, because literally all of my friends five star this series. And even though I really like and appreciate the unique formatting, witty ban
What started out funny and cute ended up feeling like I was getting beat over the head and impractical.Okay, let’s talk about the plot twist as vague as possible.
For me, it was a bad reading experience and I was angry that I shed tears and was impressed that the authors weren’t scared “to go there.” Again, let me heavily emphasize that all my friends love this book and didn’t feel this way.
And even though I read Illuminae two years ago, I still felt like this book just felt too much like Gemina.
I just don’t love this series the same way as everyone else.
SON OF A BITCH.This book will blow out your brains and hump your skull.
“You might get only one shot.
Like Illuminae, this book gave me multiple heart attacks and ‘wtf?!
This can’t be happening!’ moments, but I loved every second of this story, including those parts.
Although, it wasn’t as intense as Illuminae in my opinion, it didn’t diminish any of this story’s epic-ness.
The story format was easier to get the hang of this time around.
Interesting, different and super exciting to read.
The new characters didn’t disappoint me (which was a shock).
After the ending in this book..
I really need to read Obsidio.
“She looked at the stars.
He looked at her.”
