https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93728.Princess_in_Love
Amusement park levels of fun, if you're a normal person and find them to be extremely fun, and not me who sees them as Nausea Central with like an eighty dollar admission cost.Anyway.This was just a liiiiiittle too dramatic and repetitive.
Don't get me wrong, the other two books were fun precisely because they're very dramatic and, yes, very repetitive - but this was just TOO MUCH.Or maybe I'm just bitter because that slow burn romance I hyped up in the last review was NOT very slow-burn this time around.
OMG THE ENDING I AM DEAD.
even though Mia has no feelings for the guy (past friendship feelings I mean) she really just didn't want to hurt his feelings.
I definitely think she should have told Kenny MUCH much sooner though that she just wanted to be friends..
how hilarious was it that Kenny thought Mia liked Boris?!
What did you all think when Mia started giving him those cute little cards with the poems in them?
I mean, she thought that this super cute senior who she was in love with was making fun of her feelings?
But I'm about to start book 4 and Mia is still 14!
Reread 5/2/15: I've been swooning over Michael Moscovitz for a decade, and showing no signs of stopping. Sa-wooooon.
Stayed up until 3AM finishing this baby ♥ Mia and Michael are officially one of my OTP's!
This book was so much better than the second one.
Is completely unnecessary, as they feel like one big book split into a dozen.
Between books 1-3 there is not clear division, and it bothers me because I feel like they pull me off the story for no reason.
I'm dying to dive right into the next book BUT I am in a book buying ban until the end of Easter and I don't want to finish the 4th book without having the 5th one :(
After a long time, that I had some moment of laughter while reading this...Hope that will continue till the end of this series.I wish my favorite character; Michael will appear in the next book too.........
Eu praticamente inspirei esse livro, de tão rápido que eu li. Hahahaah Gosto da maneira bem lenta e juvenil que a Meg desenvolveu o romance. Eu vejo TANTAS coisas da minha experiência na pré adolescência lendo esses livros. Tantas inseguranças e teimosias. Mas adorei ver a Mia crescendo em cada livro. É definitivamente uma leitura fofa e gostosinha de fazer, mesmo se vc já saiu da pré adolescência faz mto tempo! Hahaha
OMG OMG OMG SO CUTE!!!!
Another adorable addition in the series. Didn't love this one quite as much as the first two, it was a little more boy-focused, but overall still really enjoyed it and am excited to get to Genovia next :)
My reaction after finishing this one:I cried a little and squealed  a lot .I swear to God,my mom came into my room like:But I didn't care at all.I was like:I'm smiling while writing this,something is seriously wrong with me...I'm in love with Michael.If someone told me that I'll be reading The Princess Diaries series again in high school and be more emotional about it than when I was 12 years old,I wouldn't believe him.But it's true.I'm pretty sure that 6 years ago I didn't squeal this much because of the ending.But honestly,the whole book was so fun and interesting.Sebastiano is such a cutie and Lilly is being cool + Grandmère is awesome.Favourite quotes:''Saturday, December 12, 8 p.m., the LoftI WILL PASS ALGEBRA THIS SEMESTER, and NOTHING IS GOING TO DISTRACT ME FROM STUDYING FOR THE FINAL!!!!!!!!!!!
As I was reading this I was thinking, "That's exactly like I was in high school." Well, except I wasn't a princess .
On another side note: I do think that these teens throw around the L word (love) a little liberally.
Her situation is enhanced because of her role as a princess, but the reality is that many young girls have the same struggle to find "self-actualization" and recognize how they fit into this world.
I love these books because Cabot taps into those needs in a funny way that can also show the strength of youth to see the world around them as it is as they find their way in it.
Princess in L♥ve By: Meg Cabot.
Meg Cabot did a really good job with all the princess books, well in my opinion she did.
Mia wants to find the right boy for her but she dosent know who.
She has a boyfriend already but she knows that he's not the one for her, but then on the other hand she is really good friends with Michael Moscovitz aka her bestfriend's brother, anyways she thinks that he will be the right boy for her because she's had a crush on him for a while now, but what she needs to know is if Michael will have the same feelings for her, well thats for you to find out.
I really liked this book and I did not want to set it down!
I'm falling more and more in love with every book I finish and I do not mind at all.It's been 3 months since Mia found out that she's a princess and the heir to the Genovian throne and you'd think things would've settled down by now, but nope.
All eyes are still on Mia. I think that people are just waiting for her to mess up which is so not cool.First thing, Lily was not as annoying in this book.
I still think that someone -Mia- should stand up to her because just because she wants something a certain way doesn't mean that it should happen.
This is my favourite Princess Diaries book so far! It brought back so many cute memories about Mia and Michael. I'm really enjoying my reread of this series!
Even the ending scene was just perfect.That would be in part becuase the series was originally intended as three books (Cabot didn’t know if she was going to get to write more), luckily she did.
Though, for Mia’s neurosis that probably wasn’t the best idea.While I could be fangirling about how this book made me want my ship so badly, hate stupid Kenny for getting in the way, etc.
I think my issue with this character is that I’ve grown up and I just want to tell her to shove it, like with that stupid walk out of hers.I know, she gets worse.
Princess in love...obviously this is a book about a girl, Mia who likes a guy. Mia has a boyfriend which she doesn't really like because she's got a guy in her heart who only thinks of her as a kid. She spends her time becoming a princess, living in genovia, and dealing with a widowed mother who's going out with her algebra teacher. So much crazy things going on with her life, so how's she going to ever be with true love? Recommended to people who wants to find out!
Siempre es refrescante leer a Mia, tan hilarante e inocente que te dan ganas de estrangularla y abrazarla a la vez. Y ese final, me dejó fangirleando *_*
FINALLY! That's all I'll say. I love this series. Wish I had read it when I was younger. But all that awkwardness sure does make me laugh. Ahhh, being a teenager.
What a cute book! These just get more angsty and adorable as the they go on! I was totally on Kenny's side for most of this book but by the end you have to admit Michael is such a sweetheart also so of course I was swooning at their cute moments. I will never tire of the princess diaries.
I really like this choice of format because it really does emphasize Mia's voice.Once again, I'm not liking Lilly all that much even though she's slightly better in this book simply because Mia doesn't tell her as much so how would she know not to say certain things?
And because the book is in diary format, we only get so much information as Mia can write down and if she's just had a totally life-changing event happen, well she isn't going to be writing much.This time around, I actually found Grandmere a little funny.
I decided to read a few and then review them together if I liked them, and trust me, I loved them.
I started to think of Mia as a friend to relate to and to root for.
And that's the point, she is someone that you WANT to root for.
Lily:  Not a great friend to Mia seeing as she often is jealous and doesn't support her, but at least in the third book she helps Mia and Michael out (which is one of the best things she could do for them).
She is SUCH a great friend to Mia, too.
She can't stop thinking about the boy she actually likes, Lilly's brother, Michael, and is unbeliably jealous when he starts going out with a genius who cloned fruit flies in her bedroom.
Mia is dealing with having a pregnant mother, a new stepfather, studying for finals, figuring out how to break up with Kenny, trying to stop thinking about Michael, and becoming the best princess she can be.With everyone of these book, the story just gets better and better.
Mia is trying her hardest to like him, but thinking about Michael is getting in the way, and there seems to be no way to stop that.
Continuity: This takes place an entire month after Princess in Spotlight and covers about 20 days (which barely leaves any room for scrutinizing the lack of character development). *exasperated sigh* Summary: Mia (FINALLY) has a boyfriend but she is not happy because she is in love with her best friend's older brother, Michael. (UNGRATEFUL BRAT) Whine Chart: ______Boris Pelkowski's mouth breathing.______Boris Pelkowski's shirt tucking.______Being a biological sport/gigantic.(considerably less f
======="Sometimes I think I must be the luckiest girl in the whole world.
Think about it: I may not be pretty, but I am not grossly disfigured; I live in New York City, the coolest place on the planet; I'm a princess; I have a boyfriend.
Oh, God. WHO AM I KIDDING????" {page 20}======="Oh, my God, I am the meanest, most ungrateful girl in the world." {page 41}
Lily's take on everything, from Mia to the school administration was highly amusing.2]......There were bits and pieces, developments, I dare say, that made me happy.
Never did I imagine that a fourteen year old would teach me how to kiss.The third time is definitely lucky for Princess Amelia Mignonette Grimaldi Thermopolis Renaldo, Crown Princess of Genovia.
And she's still struggling with her Algebra.Meg Cabot's writing is definitely full of life and humor.
Aside from the fact that this book is intended for someone younger than me, there are tons of laugh out loud moments that would catch attention of others and make them think that the reader is demented.Thing is, Mia's definitely falling in love and saving the world, one step at a time.
After vegetarianism, the dolphins definitely go next.
Cliff Hanger: eh.Rating: 4 StarsScore SheetAll out of tenCover:  8Plot:  8Characters: 7World Building: 8Flow:  8Series Congruity: 8Writing: 8Ending: 7Total: 7In DeptBest Part: Mia stood up for herself Worst Part: Lily upset me greatly!Thoughts Had: Oh snap Lily; Mia let him down easy!; Micheal, what balls!ConclusionContinuing the Series: yesRecommending: yesShort Review: Usually i love Lily, but in this book, i felt like she was the biggest B around and i kinda wanted Mia to hit her or something.
Micheal showed he has some balls in this book, especially doing that big show of affection in front of everyone.
Review in GIF Form:
It is far enough removed from the first book that I have (for the most part) stopped making comparisons with the movie.
This book was so charming and such a fun, fast read.
I felt really bad for Kenny, but he seemed to handle it well.
But I was never on Team Kenny and was glad when that was finally over.
Then, when he FINALLY showed up at the dance; it was just too much.
I could not stop smiling.
Finally, she got her kiss and it was perfect.
I LOVED this book!!!!!
I am still smiling thinking about it!
This book was so...nice. The storyline was fairly good and I enjoyed very much what happened throughout the book. Mia is a pretty...annoying voice to read, mainly because she's a fifteen year old girl confused about love... and also because she's the heir of a country. What really made me enjoy the book much more were the final pages. They had me laughing and in some parts, my heart was pounding to see what would happen. It's a great book to read when you just want to read somthing for the fun of it. 3.5 stars.
My favourite so far of the series. Mia is so witty. The Princess Diaries series always makes me laugh....
Membaca ulang buat mood booster
