https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7157310-rot-ruin
Basically the argument defending this school of thought goes a little like this: Tom Imura: Pretend you're at a loved one's funeral and suddenly someone you don't know shows up and like defecates on your loved one's corpse.
Let me at that disgusting jerk!Tom Imura: These zombies are other people's loved ones.
Tom Imura: Okay, so when you go around decapitating random zombies who are in no way bothering you you're pretty much doing the same thing as that filthy stranger that took a massive dump on your love one's corpse.
Me:...Tom Imura: So basically you should just leave all those walking corpses--you know, the ones that totally want to eat your face and make you a zombie--alone.
CALL NOW for 250,000 extra zombies FREE for the price of 6,837,452,001!Rot & Ruin is a great first installment in a zombie dystopian future about a boy named Benny and his older, exasperated brother Tom. This book is well written.
It's a bromance between Benny and his brother Tom as they come together to heal their relationship and bring their small family back together.The story is packed with action, adventure, zombies, gore and violence.
Nix and Lilah, the two girls in this story, are kick-arse and I give Maberry full credit and appreciation for developing two complex, intelligent and capable characters that totally own this book.
I went into it expecting to LOVE it, but often found myself rolling my eyes at what felt like preaching and dumbing-down to a younger audience.So, the first couple chapters of this book were the most tremendously creative and in depth look at what it takes to survive a zombie apocalypse.Benny and Chong just turned 15, and it is time for them to start looking for their zombietown survival-related jobs.
Soon after, we are supposed to hate them and want them dead as quickly as our protagonist does.Benny's older brother, Tom, is the zombie hunter who begins training him.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ “Save words like ‘sorry.’ Save for the dead. Living don’t need them.”  Seriously. Once I ran through the gamut of vampires and werewolves and angels (oh my!) a few years ago, zombies were the next obvious choice. I plowed through zombie horror stories, zombie romance stories, zom-coms, you name it – but somehow I managed to miss this one.When the Zombie Apocalypse finally takes place, I have a feeling we’ll find this to be the most tr
I plowed through zombie horror stories, zombie romance stories, zom-coms, you name it – but somehow I managed to miss this one.When the Zombie Apocalypse finally takes place, I have a feeling we’ll find this to be the most true to how we all will live.
4. Zombies will outnumber humans by A LOT and good ol ‘Murica will probably jump the gun and do something stupid like drop nukes on cities – which will create even MORE zombies, forcing the majority of the population to live in fear and behind fences in order to keep us safe from the hoard .
5. We will discover most of what we think we know about zombies is not really true .
When there is a zombie apocalypse (no, not if), I'm about 98% sure I would not survive.
Tom Imura was one of the main reasons I enjoyed this book.
He is basically a calm, sexy zombie-slaying Samurai.
This way we can have lots of half-Japanese zombie-killing offspring, and God knows the world needs more of those.
Benny, the MC, is not as good as Tom. He is like a non-sexy, less-Asian bratty version of him.
But still not as awesome as Tom. I liked this book, but it was nothing close to fantastic for me.
It was a good zombie book.
I like the idea of the bounty hunters, the zombie cards, Gameland (which I hope there's a lot more of in the next book!), etc.
I've read a bunch of zombie books, but this one stood out as truly unique with its original details.Characters:At first, I disliked Benny.
And even that was mostly just because Benny's friends kept being like "OOOH BENNY DO YOU LIKE NIX." I'm not really sure why, but I just didn't feel that connected to her as a character, and I thought the romance between her and Benny felt a little forced.
I mean, I felt like Lilah had more depth to her character than Nix did, before Lilah even showed up––like, just from people talking about her.
So yeah, I love this book and before I go all fangirl over Tom Imura and squee my head off let me highlight why you should start this series:1) It is very well-written -- that’s not always a given, even from talented authors -- see my review of David Moody’s Autumn: The City.
It’s been a long time since I’ve been this excited over a character from a book and reading as much YA as I do, most male protagonists are still battling hormones and attitude.
This novel is set years after the zombies came, so it's not your run of the mill survival of the fittest story happening in the midst of an apocalypse, this one is about what happens after that.
He came off as an annoying brat, and oblivious one time too many, but when he goes off into the Rot and Ruin with his brother - aka in the real world - he grows up fast.
Like all great zombie stories, it' a very character oriented, well built world filled with villains who are even worse than the flesh eating monsters who started it all!--For more of my reviews, visit my blog at Xpresso Reads
WOW! Talk about an excellent read! It only took the first two or three chapters to find me deeply immersed in this novel. The story surrounds Benny, a fifteen-year-old, growing up in a zombie-infested world and is basically his coming of age story. I couldn't help but become attached to the characters in this book. Benny and his brother Tom, Benny's girlfriend but "not the girlfriend," Nix. There is her competition, the Wild Girl. Finally, there are Benny's heroes Charlie Pink-eye and the Hamme
Even though you don't get much backstory on anyone other than Benny and Tom, they still end up being very real and developed characters.
I looked forward to when I could pick the book up and read for a few minutes and hated to put it down.
I became completed invested in Benny and his life.
Unlike so many other series I've read recently, this was a complete story and not a cliff-hanger that makes you read the next book to see how it ends.
I'm very much looking forward to reading the second book in the series and highly recommend Rot & Ruin!
I love me some apocalypse fiction, and when Trudi recommended this series, I knew I had to give it a go.It opens in a small town of 28 thousand, with fifteen year-old Benny and his best friend Lou Chong forced to look for jobs, the bane of countless teenagers during countless summers.
Mentality and technology have an 1800s Western feel, with bounty hunters and traders being the few willing to set foot outside of town.I lacked patience for early Benny; he's such a teenager, but of course, that's so he can grow exponentially by the book's finish.
Glad I gave it a go.Benny is a typical teenager in the beginning of this book.
I couldn't stand that kid in the beginning of the series and half the time now I want to knock him one.
He finally ends up going out into the "Ruin" with his older brother Tom as an apprentice to bounty hunting zombies.
(He kinda reminds me of Glenn from Walking dead) He is thought of by his brother as a coward and no where as cool as the other bounty hunters that brag about their kills.
Out in the Ruin this book came alive for me.
Who only need to feed?I couldn't put this book down.
There are many stories about the outbreak of the impending zombie apocalypse.
Because they are so slow and so stupid and so clumsy, I felt sorry for them.
They have no chance against humans who know what they are doing.Folded over this whole story is a mystery - the mystery of the Lost Girl.
This mystery and the story of the Lost Girl set this book apart.
Yes, the living are the real enemy and the undead are simply a danger to be endured - like a storm - but Rot and Ruin takes a new turn on this overdone story line.
I loved its underlying theme: zombies are just like people except they’re dead (and they may want to bite you).
I despaired at the world of Rot & Ruin, a world of abandoned technology and zombies.
Rot & Ruin is the story of Benny Imura and his legendary brother Tommy.
Benny is just your average 15 year old boy who must find a job in order to keep receiving his food rations.
I loved Morgie and Chong and enjoyed reading about their job hunting woes.
I really enjoyed this book and I am looking forward to the next installment of Benny and Tommy Imura’s story.
I'm not anti-zombie in any way, shape, or form, but I tend to only read/watch stuff with zombies when I'm really in the mood for them.Twice has sort of reignited my ... er ... hunger? for them? I seriously loved how this author didn't just rehash other zombie stories and instead made it undeniably his own. I also enjoyed that he didn't sugar-coat anything; there's lots of gory parts in this book.I liked the setting, the philosophical parts, the characters, and the plot ... so that's a win. Only
Only thing I can nitpick is how the heroes kept falling for the villains traps, but, I kind of liked that the heroes didn't just run through the gauntlet of this story with no obstacles in the way.
Another nitpick is the blatant foreshadowing that SOMETHING BAD IS GOING TO HAPPEN ...
It's not subtle, no, but it does make you want to read on to see what's going to happen next.This is seriously a great start and honestly I'm already reading the next book and this is the perfect time of year to start this sort of book.
Benny since First Night, the time when the Zombie outbreak began has not yet killed, has now come to the stage in his life where he's going to have to make some big decisions.
This has the makings of a TV series, similar to ‘Supernatural' where you also have two brothers who hunt out demons and ghosts instead.There is something more worse out there than zombies, more of an enemy for the Imura brothers, this enemy is killing off family members.
All I need now is to buy myself one of those Zombie cards from the story, they are like picture cards on the front of each was a portrait of a famous bounty hunter.
This is a boy main character, and in this future world, when you reach a certain age, you must get a job or you don't get as many rations.
But going on, Rot & Ruin started out with the main character hitting the age and going to look for a job.
And finally, the job his brother has, zombie hunter.
So now Benny cannot believe the big tough reputation his brother has as a zombie killer.I thought this would be just a book about a boy learning how to hunt zombies and coming to respect his brother through that.
I don't really have anything new to add about Rot & Ruin other than throwing in my voice to chime with the naysayers in a bored "Nay!" I may even be lip synching.
I'm not feeling the effort at all.Imagine the most stereotypical response of a fifteen year old boy and apply that to any points the zombie killing concept/teenaged boy living in a post apocalyptic world can dredge up and that's your book.
Add a pinch of romance.
This book didn't inspire much of anything in me.
I blame Rot & Ruin!
Although he believes his older brother to be a coward and their relationship isn't exactly a good one, Benny joins the 'family business' and begins to hunt zombies together with Tom. Soon he has to learn that the dead aren't the real evil out there.Despite the fact that this novel is clearly plot driven and includes a fair amount of violence and gore, it also has its quiet moments and there were even a few scenes that made me get a little teary-eyed.
Çürük ve Harabe çok sevdiğim bir kitap. Devamı gelmeyecek diye çok üzülüyordum ama gelecekmiş, mutlulaştım. Bir seneden fazla oldu okuyalı ama yorum şeyettirmeye çalıştım, sırf daha çok okunsun, tanınsın, yazık olmasın diye - eminim bu posttan sonra kitabın satışları patlar zaten :P- bir katkım olsun istedim falan.http://zamansandigi.blogspot.com.tr/2...
Forget Benny. Tom ImuraOh yes.
It's not just about survival and killing the living dead as Jonathan Maberry digs deeper than that.Our protagonist is a 15 year old boy, Benny Imura .
He lives with his older brother, Tom Imura.
Tom is a bounty/zombie hunter and since Benny couldn't find a job he wants, he introduced him to their family business.
He showed Benny how he ends the zombies, paying respects in behalf of his clients and talked sense in him.
He made him realize that zombies were once humans and should be respected too.
Seriously, I love Tom Imura!
To say I am a fan of zombie books and films would be putting it mildly.
As a small child in church, I'd sit on the kneeler and watch people going up for communion and imagine who I would want in my post-zombie village.Another fact you should know: I read half of Jonathan Maberry's Patient Zero and I just wasn't into it.
However, Rot & Ruin, on the other hand, I read in a single day.Writing caliber wasn't my problem with Maberry's first novel.
Rot & Ruin captivated me so much I might even give Patient Zero another shot, although I'll have to buy a second copy since I gave away my first.
His older brother Tom is a bounty hunter but Benny can't stand the idea of working with him because Tom is a coward.
But that's just what Tom did, taking his infant brother Benny with him.Now, fourteen years later, they live in the relative safety of Mountainside but Benny is far from happy especially because town law says that at fifteen his food rations are to be cut off unless he can find a job.
For Benny's first day on the job Tom takes him out into the "Rot & Ruin", the world beyond the high fences of Mountainside.
I don’t feel that this book did it… what this book felt like to me was a typical YA story with zombies thrown in as an after-thought.
Aw, here comes her knight in shining armor.But the only thing I can think of is, here’s this 15 year old kid who just started training to be a zombie hunter less than week ago and he feels it’s his mission in life to now save this total bad ass Xena type zombie killing machine who’s been surviving on her own in the Rot & Ruin for YEARS… and Benny plans on saving her.
There were some cringe worthy moments though that I thought were pretty wicked.The storyline really surprised me since it's more plot driven then anything else and it was so much more to it then see-zombie, kill-zombie, run-zombie, which I'm ashamed to admit is what I was actually expecting.Jonathan Maberry inspires the concept of life and death with right and wrongs by putting his characters through a journey of self discovery, survival and growth.The writing is strong and well crafted, walking us through memories of First Night, the tiny town of Mountainside and over the fence to the Rot & Ruins giving us a clear cut path to the people infected, affected, and the stories that are burned into there very souls.The Imura brothers, Tom and Benny, are fantastic character that had me captivated through out the entire book.Benny is naive and young but he has a good heart and when leaded in the right directions shows maturity, courage and strength.
I was rather surprised by this one. I had started reading it before I got too sick to even try and read the print in any book, so I came back to this one as it stuck in my mind. I guess that's good news. It was very good. I hope the rest follow in it's path.
Fifteen year olds in his post apocalyptic world are expected to contribute to society otherwise they find their rations cut in half (Everything I’ve said happens in the first couple of pages.) He also lives with his half brother, Tom Imura, whom he loathes.
Things get really exciting as he looks for a job only to find that the only viable option is to go into the “family business” with Tom who happens to be a zombie hunter (or so I thought.)Who would have thought that a book about zombies would make me cry?
Way different than I thought it would be but in a really good way! Full review hopefully to come.
HOOOOLLEEEEEE ZOMBIE TITS That was a wild ride!! I had a hard time putting this book down every night, and now that I'm done I want to read the rest of the series, like all of them today without stopping. Aaaand anything else Jonathan Maberry ever writes (not all of them today, that would be impossible😜) What could be a better compliment for an author? Resounding enthusiasm over here. Highly recommended. Don't be a bitch-ass critter like Charlie Matthias, do the right thing like Tom and Benny and Nix and dream girl Lilah...and read this book today!!
It seems like the only option left is to join the family business.Benny's brother, Tom, is one of the most respected and successful zombie killers.
But, his lack of success in any other job has left him no choice.Benny learns a lot while out in the Rot & Ruin with Tom. He learns about his own past, what it is that Tom really does, and what separates man from monster.
ROT & RUIN is set in a time when people still remember what happened when the zombies started rising, so the reader gets some first-hand accounts of First Night (the night the world changed).
