https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25365698-jeremy-poldark
I loved being back in this world! As always, there is struggle and strife and Ross always in trouble. But it's mostly always for the good! Demelza is wonderful as ever and strong in her way. And dear sweet Verity. I would love them both as friends ❤And now we have a new edition. But what new troubles await the Poldark's! Wonderful series so far! Happy Reading! Mel 🖤🐺
I loved being back in this world! As always, there is struggle and strife and Ross always in trouble. But it's mostly always for the good! Demelza is wonderful as ever and strong in her way. And dear sweet Verity. I would love them both as friends ❤️And now we have a new edition. But what new troubles await the Poldark's! Wonderful series so far! Happy Reading! Mel 🖤🐺
Can't wait for the PBS miniseries "Poldark" to begin at the end of June either.
Ross and Demelza are experiencing tough financial times thanks to George Warleggan and cousin Francis.
Will Ross lose everything he owns to the rapacious George Warleggan?
Can't wait to read the next book "Warleggan" to find out.
I'm beginning to strongly dislike Elizabeth who doesn't seem to be able to appreciate the sacrifice Demelza made while D.
At least cousin Francis is appreciative of Demelza and is ashamed of his previous behavior towards her.
Hope the next book brings happier times to the Poldark family.
"It isn’t where you’re born in this world, it’s what you do."If you’ve read my reviews of both Ross Poldark and Demelza, then you might be thinking here we go again… Candi’s set to get all fangirlish on us!
We are introduced to Caroline Penvenen and her little canine companion – I can sense she will be a delightful addition to the series as well.
He continues to insert himself into every situation, using his power to attempt to turn the tables against Ross and in his own favor.
She was bearing it now."Within the pages of Winston Graham's Book 3 of the Poldark Series, we come to see the strength and determination of the slight waif who won the heart of Ross Poldark......Demelza.
An unlikely frail figure who would cast a giant shadow on things to come.Ross Poldark, who returned to his familial land after fighting for the British in the American Revolutionary War, has quite the present battle on his hands.
Warleggan sets out to build a solid case against Ross.
Some things just never seem to change.If you follow the PBS Poldark Series, then this one is a must for you.
I'd never have considered reading them if I'd not had the opportunity to read the first one for free on kindle, mainly because I shy away from romance-novels-made-into-a-long-running-TV-series.
At the core, these novels are considered historical romance, but meticulously researched so that the period of the late 1700's in Cornwall is brought to life very vividly without any prettying up.
In the three books I read, there were three particularly important women through whom Graham was able to explore the socio-cultural boundaries in which their lives were contained.
The third book in the Poldark series.
She has become the heart of the books for me, and I feel that Winston Graham must have felt the same.
I am anxious to begin Book Four.”Human beings were blind, crazy creatures, he thought, forever walking the tightrope of the present condemned to ever changing shifts and expedients to maintain the balance of existence, not knowing even as far ahead as tomorrow what the actions of today would bring.
In this riveting third book, Ross must face trial for the actions he took following the death of his infant daughter. The feud with the Warleggans threatens the entire community and the relationship with his cousin Francis remains strained. It is then that his wife Demelza makes an announcement that changes their lives in unexpected ways and offers a glimmer of hope for the family's future.
The title of this book is a little misleading, given that Jeremy Poldark isn't even born until the last few pages, but that's a minor quibble.
I enjoyed the third installment of this series just as much as one and two, and look forward to the next nine books.
Good historical fiction always impresses upon me the fact that no matter how long ago or how far away, people really haven't changed that much at all.
Good deeds and bad, rich and poor, modesty and ambition: these things are here to stay.
Loved this even more for re-reading.I would encourage others to read as there is far more in the book.Loved the original series and had Robin and Angharad my mind as I read.Had a walk around the coastal path yesterday with the dramatic music from that series also.Very atmospheric!
This series is simply amazing!
This is the third book in the Poldark series.
After a horrific tragedy in book 2, Ross is angry and fragmented.
These are some of the best written characters out there.
A highly enjoyable read.
I am reading this series as part of a buddy read.
Most of my "buddies" are ahead of me, as I joined late.
I feel all sorts of emotions when reading this.
It's great to have pals in the Reading for Pleasure Book Club to discuss with.If you haven't begun this series yet, I highly recommend it.
It's one of the best out there.
By the time 1791 rolls around, Ross and Demelza face new challenges but with a bit more hope.
I liked the little bits of humor interjected into the story-especially the affair of poor Jud!
What really annoyed me about this book is being inside Ross's head.
She isn't in the story too much but she's as sweet and good as ever.Captain Blamey seems like a man given to nearly as much brooding as Ross and he isn't home too often.
The women shine in this book because I also like Caroline.
Everyone was scattered around the village and it could have been a party despite the dire circumstances.There was a surprising scene that featured Francis Poldark and Dr. Dwight that I was not expecting, but it certainly heightened the drama and emotion of the story.
I'm sorry her husband is such a grump but that's what you should expect when you marry a handsome brooding hero.Verity Poldark is still a doll baby and I will defend her forever.
I just want to her to be happy and I need her on a book cover ASAP.Ross Poldark is a smoldering scarred hero but, like his wife, needs to work on communication.
Another fabulous installment in this Poldark saga that I am LOVING!!! On to book number four!!
Another fun and satisfying addition to this series. I have to say that as much as I love the TV series, one of the beautiful things about the books is getting more fully into the character's heads. You just can't get that same amount of depth and clarity on the screen alone. Ah, the beauty of a well written book! Love this series.
Not a word is wasted, evoking images of the windswept landscape of Southwest England abutting the ocean sea that is Cornwall, dotted here and there with a smattering of landed estates, villages, inns, mines, coves, and houses of varying kinds.It is August 1790 and Ross Poldark finds himself on trial at the Bodmin Assizes for his life, accused of formenting a riot and encouraging the theft of the King's properties from the wrecks of 2 ships that ran aground near his property the previous January.
Third in the Poldark saga, this is one that resolves the final twist that occurs at the end of the novel Demelza.
The first half of the novel is taken up with Ross' impending trial for disturbing the peace, striking an officer, and other assorted bits of mayhem.
Demelza, his wife, is mourning the death of their daughter Julia, and is trying hard to keep Ross in line, and find a way to save him.
This is clearly a bridging novel, resolving some issues, and continuing the overall story a bit, and I suspect, setting up the plot for the next novel, Warleggan.
5 FABULOUS SECOND TIME AROUND STARS!!Not by a hairbreadth would a single external circumstance move to accommodate him and his schemes—he knew that.
As well ask, on the butterfly's behalf, for the postponement of sunset or tomorrow's gale.
Her face was preoccupied, thoughtful, intent, but not on what she was doing.
He realized that all the struggle and anxiety of the next few months would not be his alone.
She would bear her share of the burden.
She was bearing it already.
He went to join her.Once again— and I know I am repeating myself— this was a fabulous story written by a brilliant author.
I'm giving this 3.5-4 stars. I thought there were some really good scenes and descriptions in this one but I am not head over heals for this series. I am looking forward though to seeing where this story goes and meeting up again with the characters.
Während es keine Zeitreise gibt, können Outlander-Fans die Winston Grahams Poldark-Serie als erbaulichen Lebensretter empfinden um über die schwere Zeit ohne Jamie und Claire hinwegzuhelfen.Die Lektüre gibt tieferen und reicheren Einblick in die Panorama-Geschichte der wundervollen Serie.
Die Geschichte beschäftigt sich mit der Kupferbergbauindustrie in Cornwall zwischen Nachkriegsrezession und den Gefahren der aufkommenden französischen Revolution, der ungefestigten Regierung, eingefasst durch die faszinierende Charakter die alle in verschiedenen Handlungssträngen ineinander übergreifen.Es gibt zeitlose menschliche Herausfordungen, die von Verzweiflung und Gier bis Glanz, Humor bis hin zu lyrischer Romantik reichen, und das alles in gut dosierten gutes Maß.
4 stars. I love this series so much, the depth of the characters is amazing. All floored, all just trying to make life in a troubled time. I. Love. Period. Dramas. Francis is a lil bitch who loves his sis in law Demelza their brotp is almost as iconic as Demelza’s and Dwight’s! 😍💃
Review to follow.
Loved the continuing saga, of Ross and Demelza and all the other lives that make up their story!
(hide spoiler)]I was happy to see that Francis does have a conscience and that in the end, his loyalty to his family won out.
Despite the difficulties, the book left Ross & Demelza in a good place, and I hope they get to stay there a little while at least.I continue to love the author's ability to paint such a rich, vivid picture of the life and people in Cornwall at this point in history.
Un dolore che svela un Ross sicuramente più fragile, che reagisce alla perdita nel suo solito modo cupo, scontroso e imprevedibile, mentre Demelza si scopre sicuramente più lucida, coraggiosa e determinata a fare l’impossibile per salvare l’uomo che ama.
Ovviamente i coniugi Poldark non saranno i soli protagonisti della storia, in quanto ritroveremo Francis e il sentimento di colpa che lo governa per il tradimento perpetrato ai danni di Ross e che lo porterà a tentare di compiere un gesto drammatico; Verity, che finalmente riesce a coronare il suo sogno; Enys che incontra un’affascinante, cinica e spiazzante Caroline Penvenen, i sempre presenti e detestabili Warleggan e tanti altri personaggi che animeranno queste belle e intense pagine tra lotte sociali, intrighi politici, riappacificazioni familiari, vecchi amori mai sopiti e un clima di rinnovata e cauta speranza mentre sullo sfondo spirano sempre più minacciosi i venti di guerra della Manica...
Still obsessed with the Poldarks. If you haven't yet, do watch the BBC (2015). But advise DONT read Poldarks' Cornwall before you have read all the books - its FULL of spoilers for the whole series!
Me encantan estas series largas que libro a libro se va desarrollando toda la historia. Una vez te metes en ella, no hay manera de dejarla y solo quieres saber qué pasará después. Con el primer libro ya dije que la historia tenía infinitas posibilidades. Luego el segundo fue algo más flojo pero en este tercer libro se incrementa la intensidad y preveo momentos duros en los próximos. Veremos a ver.
4'5 realmente. Adoro el carácter de Ross y se prevee un siguiente libro muy muy interesante
It has taken nearly a month to finish this book. These books take me a while to get through because it's so dense. Graham does a great job getting the language of the time down and keeping up the tension. I really enjoyed getting to read this one and notice the differences between the book and the show. I still really enjoy both book and TV show. Can't wait to get into book 4! After I finish that one I'll be past the content in the shows and in new territory.
This series is so addicting! Bring on book four!
3.5*
Nobody could have convinced me prior to August 30th 2017 that I would be HOOKED on this series!
Seriously...even though I had added the first one to my TBR and have been hearing about the new series on PBS, I wasn't in any hurry to get started.
I have plenty of books I want to get to.
Plus....who wants to start something with 12 books?
I surely didn't think I wanted to.
There are ONLY 12 books?
Kind of a confusing title, but a wonderful continuation of the series.
I am trying to wait an entire day before starting the next one.
