https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/828391.Robert_the_Rose_Horse
Fortunately my allergy to cat fur has never cost me a job! Otherwise I do empathize with poor Robert. What a ridiculous + exciting + adorable story. Well worth finding if you're lucky enough to have access to a library that hasn't yet culled it.
First read this almost 40 years ago... I liked this book as an young boy because Robert was my name too. I especially liked to see everyone and everything go sailing through the air whenever Robert the horse sniffed a rose and sneezed. Children's books can be a lot more fun than adult books.
Cute illustrations and story!
2) Grade level, interest level, lexile : preschool-2nd grade, interest level is 3-7 years old, and the lexile is 100l 3) Appropriate classroom use (subject area) : I was use during reading block free time 4) Individual students who might benefit from reading: Any child can benefit from this book especially a child with really bad allgeries.
5) Small group use (literary circles) : I could ask key details about what causing the sneezing and the jobs the horse got.6) Whole class use (read aloud) : I could do popcorn reading and let each child read a page aloud.
It tells a story about a horse with allergies who struggles to hold a job because his sneezes tend to blow everything up in the air.
I just love this story and have read it a million times as a child.
It does have a page or two with bank robbers who have guns, but Robert (a police horse) sneezes on them.
It's simply a great book written in a time where guns were a somewhat non-issue.
A time when parents got play guns for their kids without batting an eye, or worrying about mass shootings.
A good early reader about the sympathetic Robert the Rose Horse.
My five year old is sensitive, so I was watching him very carefully for reactions to the harsher elements of the story: separation from your parents, loosing your nice job, coming across bad guy robbers, etc.
He held it together although I could tell he was touched by the story.
All in all a good, eventful story with a happy ending.
It's a bit long for a beginner reader, but there's plenty of repetition and overall it's an easy read.
It's a memorable story to read again at some point.
My 5 year old daughter really likes this book.
I purchased it at a library discard sale in 1999 or so and my eldest daughter loved me to read it to her as well (she was 3 at the time).
I kept it when she outgrew it even though it has some dirty pages, though none are torn, and I am glad it is getting more use with my youngest daughter.
She loves to hear about Robert's sneezing and won't let me read "kerchoo" because she has to do that part.
She likes that he finds a job he can do and saves the day from the robbers.
Danny's the one who always requests this one. Another one that has been read to rags (partly because Mom bought it used to start out with). Tommy likes to point out small details in the illustrations.
This is a really cute story. The horse is lovable and sweet and the allergic sneeze is enjoyable. We've read this quite a few times. It shares a shelf with the Syd Hoff books (right where it belongs, imo).
12/26/17 Read with Naomi & Julia.
This was my favorite book as a child. I even had the book memorized.
FUN!! An allergic horse who saves the day! One of my kids favorites.
Robert the Rose Horse is on my favorites list because of the persistence and determination of the horse to find somewhere where he belonged.
I can imagine the students laughing at the horse sneezing so largely.
Considered fiction, it contains the element of animals as the main characters.
Designed for K-2 grade, it can be enjoyed as a read aloud or individual reading.In the reading classroom, teachers could use this book to teach children fluency, to read the dialogue as if the character was speaking out loud.
Demonstrating this book would be a lot of fun with the major sneezes and all.
Another of my childhood favorites, and in fact the copy we have is one with an inscription from my Mother as a gift to me way back in time. This book was also one of the favorites of my son, Kevin, as he loved the "Kerchooo" parts. Today, my two-year-old granddaughter got to listen to it and look at the pictures. I think she liked the cameo appearances of dogs and cats here and there, but did comment occasionally on the "horse". We'll see if she requests it again in the future.
A short story about a horse trying to find a job due to his rose allergy.
I remember reading this book as a kid. Liked it then, like it now.
Fun early reader for preschoolers. The poor horse is allergic to roses and when he sneezes, crazy things happen. Great illustrations.
Jack loves this book. He has read it so many times.
I always liked this one too.
I enjoyed this book because I like horses. I did not like this book because I did not like the part when Robert, the horse, sneezed.
A classic picture book for young readers. Roses make Robert sneeze and cause quite a few adventures as he finds his place in life.
This book is about a horse that goes out to find work in the city because he was terribly allergic to the roses at the farm he lived at.
When he goes to the city he finds work as many different things, but they were not working out.
One day he saw three men trying to rob a bank.
Quickly thinking, Robert sniffs a rose from a little girl head, which made him let out a great big sneeze, which made the bank robber fall down flat.
Robert had saved the day.
Robert the rose horse.
New York: Beginner Books.
Because this was my favorite book when I was a very little girl, I rushed out and ordered this book for my son.
Because I ordered it online, I didn't page through it, which is always a good idea when buying a children's book.
I still think it's a good kid's book, but my advice for parents who are sensitive to weapons and violence in a book, is to either do a little editing before you read the book or wait for a more appropriate age (though I think 7 or 8 year olds would be bored by this book).
This book was cute.
I liked the horse trying hard to find work and he was a very agreeable character, but it bugged me that at the end of the book he has "sneezed out" his sneezes and is no longer allergic to roses.
I feel like if someone reads this to a kid with allergies they are going to have a ton of questions about why their allergies don't just go away and that probably wasn't a big deal when this was written, but now there are so many kids with all kinds of allergies that it may want to be a consideration before the book is selected to be read.
A charming story of a horse who discovers he is violently allergic to roses - sneezing so hard every time he's around them he flattens everything and everyone around him. He has to move away from the country to get away from the roses. Unfortunately, he keeps coming across roses in the city and ends up losing his job because of it. But one day, he uses his allergy to roses to thwart a bank robbery.Fun, old-fashiony illustrations.
A darling story about a horse who has one thing that is very different from most other horses. And how this one issue bring hardship to his life. But how this issue also is able to help a lot of others. We all have things about ourselves that are different from other people. May we use those gifts to the best of our ability to serve and bring joy to others.Sometimes just sharing how we deal with setbacks can bring encouragement and peace to others.
This one came up on my Goodreads recommendations list. I remembered really enjoying the book as a child. Times have changed and my tastes have too. It's still a cute story, though I felt people were mean to Robert for firing him over something he had no control over, and something that could have been accommodated with even a little bit of effort.
A very silly story about a horse who has a troublesome rose allergy. The horse ends up disarming a group of bank robbers with his violent sneezes. This is not a particularly awesome story from my perspective, but I still gave it five stars because it has been an instant favorite of every child to whom I've read it.
This is a cute book about a horse being allergic to flowers and he uses his sneezing force to capture bad guys. I like Robert because he uses his allergy for the better. He looks for work and take a journey through the city to find his talent. This book can help children describe how gravity works, including the force of Robert's sneeze. Good for grades K-2.
