https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/567038.In_the_Last_Analysis
This academic mystery series is one that I have meant to read for ages, so when it finally appeared on kindle, I felt that I must get around to trying it.
This is set in New York and was published in 1964.When Kate is asked by a student, Janet Harrison, whether she could recommend a psychoanalyst, she suggested her close friend, and former lover, Emmanuel Bauer.
However, when Janet is found murdered on the analyst’s couch, Emmanuel is the main suspect and, feeling responsible, Kate feels it is up to her to clear his name.
I didn't like this at all. Maybe it's just a bit dated, but she was so annoyingly elitist. I wanted to stab her on the couch.
It was interesting in a time when forensics was barely heard of let alone DNA a pipe dream, something like ears, in addition to dental, could give a clue to one's identity.It's based around Kate Fansler, a Manhattan English professor in her approx late 30s to early 40s, who refers a former grad student (Janet Harrison) to her good friend & formerly brief lover, who is an analyst/psychiatrist (Dr. Emanuel Bauer).
In addition to Kate later becoming a suspect, she also doesn't believe her intelligent, slightly quirky friend or his wife could have done it.
I have stumbled upon-novels a year ago-ona separate mission glancing Amazon.ca –these looked filled with malicious plays – withKate – the detective of - - She conceives she’s the omnipotent antagonist who has done nothing more special than to help push a special student past analytical therapy – beyond one therapist – to whom he is murdered.
a dreadful plot filled with recognitions entitling yet first - - - ‘the last analysis’ novel of a series.
promises Kate - related detectives – for her, Kate’s special analyses holds her (syncopate) to intriguing mysteries.
(sweet things happens to those whose wait.
Liked it well enough. I think I would have been better off reading this series in its first go-around -- I might have enjoyed Kate's verbosity a little more as a grad student than I do today. I don't think that Amanda Cross had perfected her dialogue or her sense of timing back then because I found her dialogue improbable and stilted. Maybe her other books wear a little better, although I may -- or may not -- dip into another Kate Fansler mystery to find out. Still and all ... not bad.
A psychiatrist's patient is found murdered on his couch. His friend, an English professor, is sure he didn't do it, and investigates.First published in 1964, and now a nice little period piece.I found it fun and rather charming.
Cross's debut 1964 mystery " introducing Kate Fansler, young, witty, erudite professor of literature...", additionally a quote from a newspaper on the back cover claims this short novel is "well-plotted" NOT, quite slow paced., "sophisticated", HMM, not sure I agree.
"and witty" The only witty dialogue was found in chapter 11, which was actually quite entertaining.
A student of Kate's is found murdered in the office of a psychiatrist friend of hers, who is the prime suspect in the murder.
Kate is convinced that he is innocent and along with feeling some responsibility towards the victim, she begins a little amateur sleuthing of her own.
The first in the series, but not the best, so I advise skipping it. The plotting is very slow, and there are long bits which are just not very interesting. There is a relatively nice twist,but I did see it coming chapters before, so if you are a savvy mystery reader, I expect you will figure it out, also.
Wenn ich weiter versuchen würde, dieses Buch zu lesen, würde ich vermutlich entweder an Langeweile sterben oder in eine neue Lesekrise rutschen. Daher: Abgebrochen und weg damit. (Braucht jemand sechs Bände der Büchergilde-Ausgabe der Serie? *g)
Decent mystery but also an interesting look back at life in the 1960s.

First published in 1964, I reread the first of this series wondering how well it had held up over time.
The answer is not too badly.
Kate Fansler is a close friend of psychiatrist Emanuel Bauer even though she does not believe in psychotherapy and during the course of the book they have a number of discussions on its merits.
It is interesting that the arguments for and against haven’t changed much in spite of the many psychotropic drugs now available.
I doubt if I’ll reread any of the rest of the series although the author’s nonfiction “Writing a Woman’s Life” is one of my favorite books of all time.
This was a good plot, but I just couldn’t get into the book. The authors writing style didn’t suit me. There was a lot of prose that just went on and on and really didn’t have anything to do with the story. Part of me felt that should’ve been a short story or novella
Fun read!What a fun read! Caro!yn Heilbrun/Amanda Cross is such a gifted writer, and I love her characterization of Kate Fansler as a quirky and intelligent literature prof/wannabe detective.
Seems very dated now, fifty years after it was first published. The psychology theme probably seemed cutting-edge then, but it plays a very small role in the mystery anyway. Kate Fansler doesn't come across as very believable, and there are too many coincidences at work here.
My rating says more about me than the book. It was written by an intellectual in the 1960s and is very much a product of its time. I’m not used to not feeling smart enough to appreciate a book....but I did enjoy it once I got used to being a generation too young to appreciate how clever she was
Picked up most of this series at a book sale. This one was not impressive. The storyline was ok but there was a lot of repetition. Good thing it was a short book. Hopefully rest of the series picks up.
I own this excellent series and should re-read them.
This is my second read. I had such good memories of this book, and while it's good, it didn't stand up to the tall tales of my nostalgia.
More than a little dated, but the descriptions of academia are still spot-on!
Let's put it this way: these mysteries are simply not to my taste.
like the character, this first book a bit thin, would like to read more.
(don't get me started on the psychoanalysis stuff...!) at the very least you learn that things like grade-grubbing students, barely comprehensible term papers, and hostile administrators were also topics of frequent complaint by 1960s academics.
on a more serious note, this book also has some interesting meditations on intimacy as a powerful and legitimate mode of knowledge production vis-a-vis state-sanctioned forms of epistemology (a distinction that, notably, breaks down along gender lines in this particular novel) - which is one of the reasons why fans of classic detective stories most likely won't enjoy it much.
So, having read a couple of the later ones, and enjoyed them very much, I have come back to the earliest story.
I have to say that I did not enjoy it as much as the later ones.
For those who have not read Amanda Cross’s Kate Fansler mysteries, Kate is a Professor of English Lit at a Manhattan University.
Kate’s involvement in the story begins with her recommendation to a student, Janet Harrison, of her friend, psychoanalyst Dr. Emanuel Bauer.
As is usual in Amanda Cross’s stories, very few clues exist.
So it’s good, but I vote for the later ones.
Fun, easy read. Literary references. Not great literature, but superior specimen of the crap detective novel genre.
Also, it was interesting; the detecting heroine, Kate Fansler, is a professor of English literature, and has a very Harriet Vane style of thought, so while she is (view spoiler)[ quite upset that her ex-lover Emanuel has been accused of murder, she is most upset because she knows he cannot possibly do it, and he is a boon to his profession (psychoanalysis) and she feels that his talents are badly needed and for him to be false imprisoned would be to the detriment of society.
Her personal feelings are in there, too, but I liked this argument towards career, towards the value of someone's mind and work and that she must intervene to save him not just because he is someone she cares for, but because his potental work must not be lost.
I was a little surprised to see the copyright of 1964, because in a general sense, it doesn't feel particularly dated.
And maybe in that respect, the story did feel dated as she was so completely ignorant of crime and police procedure (among other things) and her naivete and her whackadoodle theories just bugged me.
(view spoiler)[And the fact that one of them was actually right?
(hide spoiler)] So maybe the problem is that I am too jaded to appreciate her?
Even trying to look at it as a sort of period piece, I can't help but feel meh.
Apparently I enjoyed (sort of) a book in this series a few years ago, so since I was looking for something easy and light, I decided to read this first one in the series.
I knew I'd hate the main character early on, with declarations like this: "Yet, Kate thought...
Does the author think professors are all arrogant, rich jerks like Kate?
Perhaps the author improved by the time she wrote the later book in this series that I gave 3 stars.
But my goodness, this one was so bad I don't know I'll bother to try one of the later ones again.
WARNING--SPOILER I thought perhaps I had been too hard on Amanda Cross (Carolyn Heilbrun) when I read several of her books many years ago.
On rereading this for a book club, I realized that she was still not a very good writer.
In this one, when her good friend, a psychoanalyst, finds a dead patient on his couch and is accused of murder, Kate springs into action.
She concocts an idea that the next door doctor to the psychoanalyst is really a fraud who killed the real doctor years ago and killed the young woman (Kate's former student) when she realized this.
As I explore various female mystery writers who set the stage for the commercial success of so many wonderful writers today, I marvel at how many of these mysteries from the 1950s and 1960s are so focused on the psychological aspect of the criminals, victims and even the people solving the crimes.
Her analyst is the prime suspects.
The analyst's closest friend, a professor, does not believe he committed the crime and sets out to find the real killer.
While the solving of the crime is a bit clumsy, the path the professor (Kate Fansler) takes is fascinating.
