https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1047507.Mother_Earth_Father_Sky
Mother Earth Father Sky is the first book in a trilogy that takes us into the lives of an ancient North American people in Alaska.
At the writing of this review (first posted on my blog), having just finished reading it I’m barely back to the here-and-now, and the story of Chagak is still fresh in my mind.
If you come across Mother Earth Father Sky and you are not offended by the cruel reality and graphic descriptions of the belief system of prehistoric man, then do grab the opportunity to read this book.
I learned quite a bit about their customs, beliefs and hardships, which is what I liked most about this book.
I admired the young teenage girl, Chagak, who lost her entire family during a massacre of her village at the beginning of the book.
The old man, Shuganan, was an interesting character, with his spiritual and mystical aura.
He was a man of peace, rather than violence, and his abundance of wisdom helped Chagak grow even more as a woman.
I recommend this book to anyone interested in historical fiction and Native American culture.
In fact, this may be my favorite story (the trilogy as a whole) - I was fortunate to have a good boyfriend who bought me the three hardcovers signed by the author especially for my birthday!Chagak, the main character, lives in a world about 9000 years ago in the frigid Aleutian islands off the coast of Alaska.
The story is based on her fictional life set in a very real primitive culture.
It is an unusual experience to have this culture so richly painted and to see life through this young woman's eyes.
You get a very real sense of the culture without judging them at the same time.
I read this book about 15 years ago and loved it. The author spent 4 years researching the Aleut people and then put together a fabulous trilogy. Her writing is excellent-visual, and I fell right into the book. I had trouble finding the books, but Sue Harrison has a website now so you can order directly from her. I have just finished reading, and it was as good as I remembered.
Its impossible not to compare this to The Clan of the Cave Bear as both are novels are set in prehistoric time.
I think Clan is a faster paced and slightly more interesting in its elaborative details however Chagak was portrayed in a more honest light than Ayla (from The Clan of the Cave Bear) who always seemed to magically know how to do anything.
I don't want to give away too much information, but the book is worth the read if you have an interest in prehistoric novels.
The descriptions are vivid without being overly long – and in this respect Mother Earth Father Sky is, I would say, better than Clan of the Cave Bear.
Both feature compelling plots with plenty of obstacles to overcome, although this book may have the edge in being more concisely expressed.However, that said, I didn’t think Mother Earth Father Sky was amazing.
In the final third of the book the protagonists have overcome the most pressing obstacles in their path, and it’s an easier ride to the end; likewise I had less reason to worry about what was happening.
I was caught up right away in the lives of a Native American tribe and enjoying the read when BANG!
From then on, the tension never lets up as the main character Chagak struggles to survive: first for her brother, then for the old man who becomes her surrogate grandfather, then for her own child.This book is not only a pleasure to read, it's an education.
This book brings home the beauty and dangers of the islands.
By the end of the book, I felt so much respect for these early people, for their ingenuity and self-sufficiency, their knowledge of nature.
Being a fantasy lover, I chose this book to take a break from my usual genre. I remembered liking "Island of the Blue Dolphins" and "Sweetgrass" as a child -- so I thought I would like this one. Though, my interest was low in the beginning, I'm so glad I stuck with it. Nearing the final pages, I can't put it down. I will go on to the next book. If you're looking for a change, I highly recommend the step out of your comfort zone to Chagak's world. Enjoy!
I don't know why, but they are difficult for me to get into so when I manage to find one that holds my interest, I tend to take notice which brings me to Mother Earth Father Sky by Sue Harrison.
Like Song of the River, this piece is character heavy, but what is so remarkable is how distinct, well-rounded and realistic each cast member feels.
In point of fact, I feel the authentic quality of her cast is what makes not just this piece, but her entire body of work so exceptional.
Strong characterization isn't the only aspect of Harrison's work worth mentioning.

The first book in the "Ivory Carver Trilogy". Wonderfully written and totally engaging.Read this excerpt" "See me," Chagak wanted to shout to the spirits, to the great mountain Aka that watched over their village. "This girl is woman now. Surely, in her rejoicing you will bring our hunters back from the sea. Surely you will not let us become a village of women and children." But only men were allowed to call to the spirits. So Chagak stretched out her arms but held back the words that pressed full and tight between her tongue and the roof of her mouth.
Book 1 of the Ivory Carver Trilogy. The journey begins and by goodness it's a powerful one. There is no other writer like Sue Harrison out there. I love this trilogy.My Sister The Moon - is book 2 in the trilogy - and even better...Brother Wind -last book in the Ivory Carver Trilogy, closes the story up.  If your looking for a new way to have a story told to you,then Sue Harrison is the author to do it. You wouldn't ever regret reading this trilogy.
It takes an amazing author to write a book that can make you laugh, cry, and everything in between. This book did just that. As soon as I started reading the book, I couldn't put it down, and Chagak became a part of me.
In an effort to warn the Whale Hunters of their impending danger from the Short Ones, she, the old man and their guests travel to this other tribe, where new challenges, dangers and another vicious encounter with The Short Ones transpires.Yes, there was a point where I could barely stand the tragic events that followed, one on the heels of the other for what seemed like forever.
But the depth of character given the young woman, the old man and several other main players in the story, and the many insights into the culture, beliefs and lifestyle of the people who inhabited the region was a strong enticement to keep going.
I really liked Blue Shell and I hope in the next two books she gets her HEA.
I don't see it at all...its rather graphic at some points and I don't think I would let a child under 14 read this...so I guess 14+ are Young Adults.
Soooo I guess parents don't mind, but there are a few scenes are rather graphic....but oh well...what do I know....Anyways....I LOVED THIS BOOK!
However, due to Sue Harrison not only did I learn a lot, but I have done my own research after the book was done.
Books about young girls, their struggles, their fears as they grow up very quickly in tragic circumstances.
Mother End Father Sky is set in a time period that I rarely read and I am happy to say that my wonderful reading streak is still going strong.Taking place in prehistoric Alaska, this book did not disappoint!
The rich detail into the history of the land, the way of life and the cultural lifestyle of the different villages shows that the author did a ton of research to make this novel.
It wasn't just Chagak's circumstances, but the general way of life.
it was better than Clan of the Cave Bear.
I don't mean that to be rude or insulting to "Cave Bear".
(Yay for girl power!) And the story was clearly well researched, but wasn't bogged down with pages of boring info dumps that sound like they were ripped right out of a science textbook.
I sure hope the next book has some better baddie.And you know, I can't decide if our Main Character is just nuts or if I'm actually supposed to believe that these spirits are real like the characters do.
Deft story-telling, realistic details, and characters whom we can love with all of our hearts - this is Mother Earth, Father Sky.So many times in novels set in times other than our own, we get the sense that the author is just adding in details to make it seem as if it is a different setting, but the thoughts and emotions of the people have not changed.
As if ancient peoples were as concerned with their sense of self as we are.Sue Harrison, though, manages to make us feel as if Chagak, Shuganan, and Kayugh have a completely different worldview - a concern for community and family over self seems to be the one defining characteristic of hunter-gatherer communities (from what we can glean from both archeology and anthropology).
Sue Harrison's books have been compared to Jean Auel and that alone was enough to make me want to give this book a try.
Chagak starts out as a girl that could have it all and then in an instant everything is dashed away.This is a story of survival and at times is violent.
Chagak really grew as a character as the book progressed.
Once I started reading it I couldn't put it down.If you are a fan of Jean Auel's books, you definitely want to try this one, and bring some tissues along, because the story is quite a tear jerker in several places.
I like the female main character who struggles to overcome blow after blow of tragedy and abuse.
The story was gripping and gave me that wonderful feeling where I couldn't wait to find out what happens next and of course, hoping the main character overcomes her obstacles.The story did have a bit of predictability to it though (not that this is a bad thing, necessarily).I will not be reading the next one in this series.
My copy of this book had a passage from the next book at the end, which I read, but it seemed to be more VC Andrews-ish, with the emphasis on the young woman character having suffered some insane and unjust abuses even worse than the first book.
It is a wonderful story and is one that can be enjoyed by anyone, whether reading for book club (book of the month assignment), reading on your own, or reading to a pre-teen or by a teenager.
The story is timeless.
It takes place in the Aleution islands circa 7000 BC, and tells the story of a young girl who looses her family, friends, neighbrs, and future husband when her villages is invaded/attacked by another tribe hell-bent on destruction of other tribes.
The story held my interest.
I give this book 5 stars and can hardly wait to discuss it with the other ladies in my local book club.
I recently picked this one up again while at the cabin for spring break, and I was completely engrossed once again.
The writing is not stellar in terms of diction or poetic prose, but the voice is unique and specific to the characters and setting.
But something about it is as addictive as the Twighlight series - with less sexual tension, though uncomfortable and passionte relations/relationships are both present in this series as well.Highly recommend to middle school girls and high school underclassman girls, though enjoyable at any age!Good quick page turner for vacations!
As my rating states; for me it was only Ok. It's a beautiful concept and isn't so much disappointing, but it just didn't take me liked I had hoped. The title alone caught me alone, the beautiful cover art work and the first chapter reeled me in quickly, but as the story progressed I found myself less intrigued. Glad I finished it since it wasn't bad but I didn't pick up the next book like I had planned to originally.
It was decent, but it annoyed me that the entire content was incredibly sexist and patriarchal despite the fact that the author wrote that she had made an effort to write as historically accurate as possible. According to research, that level of sexual inequality came with agricultural societies. Before, during hunter and gathering times, men and women operated on an egalitarian basis which is certainly not the case in this book. At all.
Definitely enjoyed the story about the hardships in prehistory. Chagak was an interesting character, fierce, but lived with fear.Many aspects of early history were weaved throughout the story from the daily life to the animistic beliefs and the barbarism of one tribal unit towards another. I will continue reading the series as it has a good pace with historical tidbits though out.
Enjoyable, fascinating stories about a pre-historic tribe and its people.
Beautifully written story about a Native American woman Chagak living in Alaska during the Ice Age. Sue Harrison paints a clear picture in your head about this time.
Excellent storytelling concerning life on the Aleutian Islands, circa 7000 BC. Not as graphic as Clan of the Cave Bear, yet I found this book nearly as compelling.
She's communicating with spirits to try to find a sign if suicide is the right choice, and I got annoyed.
"Mother Earth, Father Sky" taught me about incorporating the past in the present, a tricky thing for a writer to pull off.
I also appreciated and learned from this novel's balance of character and plot driven storytelling.
For every plot chapter, the following chapter allowed Chagak to react; her emotions and thoughts unfolded as she made clever, often risky decisions.
"Mother Earth, Father Sky" belongs to thoughtful, mature readers who love to learn about history and culture.
There is something about the these books that leaves a little to be desired.
It's not that the novel is not a good one and I relate to several of the characters, but the plot is such a thin - straight line that I found myself left with little worth remembering after devouring the book in a matter of days.
I was recommended this book while searching for something similar to Clan of the Cave Bear which could be some of the source of my disappointment.
I don't think I'll read the second book.
