https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6505012-the-nameless-city
Because of this, although “The Nameless City” is an important precursor, I continue to consider “The Call of Cthlulu” (1926) to be the first tale of the Mythos.Still, our little story is an important “first.” It is, I believe, the first time H.P. used a long descent into subterranean darkness to evoke terror, and it is certainly the first time that he used the appearances of the walls to tell a tale of growing strangeness (each bas-relief here carrying the events further ahead in time).
GREEEE GREE GRE – GREEE AGGGH!!!Asmodeus: Ah, I see, the Egyptian references further separate a still earlier allusion to Mesopotamian mythology, thank you for clearing that up.Orcus: While I cannot disagree with Beelzebub’s erudition, I must point out that this delightful young writer has dramatically captured a mood that will make the mortals cringe and remember why they fear the dark – it’s simply delicious.Cthulu: And of course the inference to pre-human alien life is FABULOUS!!Asmodeus: OK, so it seems as we have a quorum, The Nameless City gets three barbs WAY up!
I started reading this story this morning, kind of vaguely thinking I had probably already read it.
Ancient mythology, weird and unclean looking alters, and strange noises all combine into an atmospheric precursor for the later "Mountains of Madness." The emphasis here is on atmosphere, so much so that it casts the kind of spell, through rhythm and language, that has you thinking of poetry.
Note: Allow me to bitch about the Library of America edition of Lovecraft's "Tales." The Library of America publishes some handsome looking books.
The above story should have been included.
Weird, atmospheric, intriguing. I liked it.
My very first Lovecraft.It was written supremely well, if inundated with many long, fantastical words that may or may not have been needed. Can't say I was scared or horrified or even that moved by it, but it was definitely intriguing.A lone narrator wanders the desert and finds himself in a lost-and nameless-city, just screaming to be explored. Great descriptions of what is to be found there, if not altogether easy to follow. I feel like there is a certain way to read Lovecraft that I hopefully will figure out soon.
When I drew nigh the nameless city I knew it was accursed. I was traveling in a parched and terrible valley under the moon, and afar I saw it protruding uncannily above the sands as parts of a corpse may protrude from an ill-made grave. Fear spoke from the age-worn stones...This opening reads like a dream, but we're not in the Dreamlands this time; we're in "Araby," albeit some region thereof where no living man has set foot. Here our protagonist finds a typically Lovecraftian edifice: enormous, impossibly ancient, of proportions and angles some disturbing to the human eye.
I mean, I know lot of horror depends for its existence on characters who will walk into completely inadvisable places, and I'm fine with that, but what kind of person crawls down a deep, dark tunnel so low that they have to crawl and slither through at points, and then doesn't even notice when their torch goes out and keeps going?
My other problem with this was Lovecraft describing completely neutral things as outlandishly horrible, such as the extreme age of the ruins (awe-inspiring maybe, but horrible?) or the steepness of the steps the character has to descend (dizzying and sickening perhaps, but horrible?).
It is a very standard and typical Lovecraftian horror short story: a lone narrator mumbling about his experience of extreme horror in some ruin of a long-lost ancient city within an Araby desert. He believes this nameless city was built by a race before humans and he may, or may not see something horrible in the dead of the night before he turns tail and flees from this ruin.The story is short, but the description is long winded and wordy and Lovecraft didn't bother to give you any break by putting some dialogues into the story. So, 2.5 stars.
He relies heavily on making the horror explicit through words such a "terrible" "horrendous" or "terrifying" to convey the dread of his plot instead of letting the reader feel these emotions trough his own imagination.
The way he conveys the aura of his settings is clearly sufficient to inspire terror in he reader without the need to emphasize these feelings explicitly.
In my opinion, such abuse of the horror adjectives tends to actually dilute the ambient, making his stories less dreadful than what they could be.
Its as if he tries too hard to inspire the imagination of the reader, and ends up spoiling the experience
Thank god it is a short story
As far as I'm concerned, all of his stories fall under one big umbrella, in the same vein as the immersive Stephen King -verse.I liked it!
This is one of Lovecraft's better stories.
I've been reading all of his material in chronological order over the past few years, so I've yet to see some of the latter classics, such as the Call of Cthulhu, and At the Mountain of Madness, but as far as his earliest ventures into the realm of delirium go, this one will not fail to impress.
Inspirational mood and setting.
Es una historia muy corta que a su vez representa el inicio del ciclo literario de horror cósmico de H.P Lovecraft.
Una antigua ciudad descubierta por un arqueólogo que se adentra en ella descubriendo..., se trata de la misma misma ciudad con la que soñó el poeta/Árabe loco llamado Abdul Alhazred...«Qué no está muerto lo que puede yacer eternamente, Y en los eones por venir aun la muerte puede morir.»También armé una lista con la serie de relatos correspondientes a los Mitos de Cthulhu.
Geniales para leer acompañado: del silencio típico después de la medianoche, y de una buena copa de vino tinto.
Después a dormir y luego a soñar con La ciudad sin nombre y/o con criaturas del universo Lovecraft :D.https://www.goodreads.com/list/show/1...
I'm actually reading this from a giant "complete" collection of Lovecraft's fiction on my Kindle, but I'm going to log as many of the novels and stories separately, so I can actually make ratings and comments on each one, really for my own benefit.
I am a big fan of Lovecraft's mythology, but I've only read a smattering of the stories so far.
There are references to various mythological places, but they may not mean much without other references, and so all the dread in story is oblique.
It's the murmurings that draw the unnamed protagonist to find it, but just its skeleton in the desert causes such fear in the man, he says that no other has even known fear like him.So, of course, he goes in.But he does wait till morning.Lovecraft's writing is very atmospheric, and the city he describes is truly creepy.
If you like stuff like this:"...afar I saw it protruding uncannily above the sands as parts of a corpse may protrude from an ill-made grave."then you will like "The Nameless City."

2.5 stars! Lovecraft's writing is very atmospheric.
c'est pas la première fois que je lis cette nouvelle, mais la première fois que je l'écoute en audiobook, un kiff absolu!
"Que no está muerto lo que puede yacer eternamentey en los eones venideros hasta la muerte puede morir"Aquí comienza a mencionar al árabe loco Alhazred. <3
Horror story by Lovecraft surrounding an ancient Arabian ruin.
it was cool
Estuvo bueno.
Pero no lo suficiente para que me guste.
Fue interesante leer la ciudad sin nombre y las posibles criaturas que habitaban en ella y cómo fue la experiencia del hombre en ir ahí.
Seguiré leyendo más relatos de Lovecraft porque según me dicen son muy buenos.
Esperemos wue mejores porque lo poco que he leído de él no me atrae lo suficiente.
Pero admito que cuando leo en páginas sobre su mitología o veo vídeos sobre él, me atrae muchísimo; pero ya cuando leo una de sus historias es como "estuvo bien" y más ná..
No sé qué pasa😁.
Creo que no me gustó demasiado este cuento, quizás esperaba algo más terrorífico. Es lo segundo que leo de Lovecraft y he de decir que lo primero que leí (Horror en Dunwich) me gustó mucho más. Pero vamos a seguir aprendiendo de este emblemático hombre, porque si o si todo lo que escribió esta rodeado de algo fascinante.
3.5/5
Av någon anledning så har jag nästan helt glömt bort novellerna av H.P. Lovecraft som jag fick för ett bra tag sedan. Förmodligen beror det på att de ligger på läsplattan. De syns liksom inte. Det är synd, för de är läsvärda. Läs mer på min blogg
I was travelling in a parched and terrible valley under the moon, and afar I saw it protruding uncannily above the sands as parts of a corpse may protrude from an ill-made grave.
In typical Lovecraftian style, our narrator, a lone traveler, searches for a mysterious and ancient city, decides to explore it despite all sorts of ominous warnings to flee, and descends into madness from the sheer horror of it.Great stuff.
انا منحاز دوماً له ولكتاباته المبهمة والمفعمة بالخوف النابض.
المدينة الضائعة هي مانعرفها بإسم إرم ذات العماد ، التي يكتب عنها لوفكرافت بإنها المدينة الضائعة التي حذرها منها العرب وكتب فيها الشاعر العربي المجنون عبدالله الحظرد -احدى شخصيات لوفكرافت الخيالية- وربما كانت المدينة هي حيث انتهى الشاعر العربي المجنون الذي قابل مخلوقات كثيرة وكان يعرف في فنون السحر ولديه كتاب نيكروميكون الذي يحوي تعويذات سحرية خيالية الفها لوفكرافت فقط لإضافة عمق لشخصيته المفضلة عبدالله.الرحلة هنا لمستكشف غربي على مايبدو على جمله وحيدين في الجزء الخالي من الصحراء حيث يهرب جميع العرب من ماتبقى من المدينة التائهة..
عرف الغرب عن ارم ذات العماد من ترجمة كتاب الف ليلة وليلة لهذا سيأخذ الخيال اللوفكرافتي كامل السيطرة على وصف المدينة ومن كان يقطنها.
هي رحلة قصيرة مع الأسف لكن غموضها وماحدث لها يجعلها دوماً مثار الاهتمام.
"Que no está muerto lo que yace eternamente, y con los eones extraños incluso la muerte puede morir."
Short story by Lovecraft that heralds the Cthulhu Mythos saga.It tells the tale of a man exploring a ruined city in the deserts of the Arabian Peninsula. And I knew I was in for a treat when the main character described that the Nameless City's architecture was low. Too low, in fact, for humans to walk through.As with all his stories, Lovecraft uses scene description to heighten the fear and horror of the main character's plight.Fun stuff!
Lovecraft's writing style. I think the fact that Lovecraft uses so much detail when describing.....everything....is what I don't like about his stories. I can get a somewhat good image in my head of what is taking place in the story, it's just that the author goes on and on for so many more sentences? paragraphs? that it's just too much. This is only my second one and I wasn't able to get into either one. Not a fan.
