https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/373049.The_Lost_Language_of_Cranes
I was thinking every day how I had to change my life, how I couldn’t go on this way; but I knew the more I thought that, the farther I was getting from where I thought I should have been.”[Owen Benjamin]The Lost Language of Cranes is David Leavitt’s first novel and was published in 1986.
It explores the terrible secrets that families keep from one another, and the consequences of their discovery.Set in 1980s New York against the backdrop of the Aids epidemic, the novel recounts the lives of the Benjamin family; parents Rose and Owen (both 52) and their son Philip (25).
In many ways, Cranes is a product of its time.
It tells the story of several people who experience coming out in a different way: the woman whose parents disown her, the boy raised by gay parents who experiences acceptance from the beginning, the married man with private fantasies.
My only complaint is that I felt the ending was a little unfinished, as we’re offered no resolution to some issues that arise throughout the story.
I was sad when the story came to an end, as I wanted to spend more time in the lives of these characters that were so beautifully written.
What I admire about this novel is that Leavitt explores the significance in mundane details of the characters' lives.
Grabbing a stranger's cock or fighting with a loved one is easy, but talking to those people takes immense courage.
The characters find that opportunities come and go, and many aren't worth pursuing, and others can be created.
I find their internal lives believable, and this book hooked me and kept me reading far too late for a few nights.
But I wouldn't want to be any of the characters, except maybe briefly to experience the excitement of coming out or falling in love for the first time all over again.
4.5/5Sin comerlo ni beberlo, David Leavitt me ha regalado una de las historias más emotivas, cautivadoras y dolorosamente curativas que he tenido el placer de leer en muchos meses.
El lenguaje perdido de las grúas es una auténtica demostración de talento narrativo y habilidad para manejar varias historias aparentemente inconexas que no solo habla de amor, deseo, sexo y perversión en toda su complejidad, sino que además analiza desde un punto de vista muy interesante nuestra forma de asimilar el lenguaje, de comunicarnos a través de un retorcido entramado de convenciones sociales y de establecer relaciones interpersonales que por lo general tienden hacia lo autodestructivo.
In a way, you could analyze this novel down into a rather pedantic series of illustrative dissertations on possible varieties of family response: there's Jerene, the black lesbian whose parents have entirely disowned her; there's Eliot, brought up as the adopted son of a settled & sophisticated gay couple - Eliot who somehow has never managed to develop a capacity for emotional intimacy; there are the two principal characters, Philip and his father Owen, both gay, and both making that revelation in the course of the book.
I think I mentioned elsewhere that Leavitt seems to have a surprisingly strong sense of his female characters.
A story of family and friends coming to grips with who they are and redefining their lives in the process.These have to be some of the most real, vivid characters I've ever encountered in a novel.
I just wasn't compelled or all that interested in the story until about 2/3 of the way through the book.If you love great, interesting, complex and evolving characters, this is the book for you.
I've always found the ways of New York life to be foreign, and I never quite 'get' it.I really loved how the book captured the mid-eighties, like a little time-capsule.
Leavitt managed to tell a universal story of the difficult and often controversial subject of homosexuality, especially considering the publication date of 1986 - when the AIDS pandemic was relatively new and so many people still thought you could contract the disease by drinking out of an infected person's glass.The story itself also takes place in the 80s and there is a good deal of discussion about AIDS, particularly in relation to Philip's character and his own fears and worries.
Set in New York in the 1980s, the central character, Philip, is gay.
At that time, neither Philip, nor his mother Rose, realises that Owen, husband and father, is also gay.
Rose is perhaps the best drawn character in the book and the one who evokes the most sympathy.
Cold and rather self-contained she could be said to have “lost” her husband and son by the end of the book.
I could identify with the growing up process and the coming to terms with self and consciousness of same.
"Ciascuno, a modo suo, trova ciò che deve amare, e lo ama; la finestra diventa uno specchio; qualunque sia la cosa che amiamo, è quello che noi siamo." Ho scoperto Leavitt tardi, confesso: e quel Ballo di famiglia, che pure mi ha rivelato l'atroce sensibilità e capacità di un ventenne, quale era l'autore al momento della sua pubblicazione, m'era sembrato una noia mortale.
La lingua perduta delle gru, richiamandosi a un fatto psichiatrico realmente avvenuto, è il linguaggio segreto dell'amoore, sono le parole non dette che s'incastrano tra madre e figlio costruendo un muro di silenzio, è l'unica certezza che rimane mentre il romanzo finisce, proprio quando la storia sembra cominciare per davvero: qualunque sia la cosa che amiamo, è quello che noi siamo.
La finestra diventa uno specchio; qualunque sia la cosa che amiamo, è quello che noi siamo."Ecco, il libro si basa su questa citazione e sull’aneddoto del bambino.
Ma il punto è proprio qui: spesso non riusciamo a sentirci bene per la nostra incapacità di comunicare, di capire gli altri, di accettarci per quello che siamo, per mancanza di sincerità, per il nostro bisogno di consenso del gruppo, della massa.
I don't know where these ideas came from, and I'm so glad that I was completely wrong.The Lost Language of Cranes is one of the most engaging books I've read in a while with characters that are so psychologically acurate that one actually believes them to be autobiographical because they're so much like real people.
Everyone will end up identifying with the people in this book and that's the greatest achievement in a book for me.
But how shameful that she had lived this life for more than twenty years, and never known, not even secretly, what it was they were.and at the confrontation:Don't interrupt me.
Because it means for you that our marriage was the cheat, your - other life, that was the real thing." her voice grew suddenly softer.
While the story is ostensibly about Philip, the son of two scholarly parents, who has known he's gay for as long as he can remember, finding his way in a city full of casual sex and barely concealed prejudices, it's more about the effects of a society beginning to fulling accept and embrace homosexuality on individuals most affected by it.
The story of Owen, Philip's closet homosexual father, is handled a little more heavy handedly, and I feel may have been more affected if the two of them weren't so closely related.
And not a Hollinghurst type character in sight, even if Elliot does scrape worringly close occasionally.
Maybe only 3.5,because I didn't get as emotionally invested as I thought I should.
It's a unique family drama as mother, father and son struggle with their disconnect, stemming largely from sexual preferences.
Owen and Phillip are both gay men, but at completely different places in terms of acceptance.
Rose needs to figure out how/if to accept either her husband or her son's homosexuality.
It's an era I know, and one that affected me deeply, so I'm surprised that this well-written novel didn't quite capture my heart.
And the amount of sex in this novel threw me off.
Libro datato (anni 80) ma che per l'argomento che tratta (l'omosessualità, l'outing in particolar modo) sa di già sentito, già detto, già vissuto. A tratti pare che il concetto di omosessualità sia legato ad una sorta di ereditarietà e quindi di malattia e l'ho trovato molto sgradevole, anche se il romanzo parla essenzialmente di amore, in tutte le sue forme, della paura dell’amore e della paura di soffrire per amore, del disagio, delle difficoltà di esprimersi e di lasciarsi andare.Una buona e interessante lettura, anche se in fin dei conti mi ha lasciato abbastanza indifferente emotivamente.
Quanta sofferenza in questo romanzo...I riflettori son puntati su Philip (figlio) e Owen (padre) che dichiarano, con tempistiche diverse, la propria omosessualità in famiglia, dopo aver vissuto i propri istinti sessuali in modo sommerso e, nel caso di Owen, aver cercato di reprimerli.Siamo negli anni '80.Indicativo del sentire del periodo la parola con cui il traduttore del romanzo, sicuramente d'epoca, abbia deciso di rendere 'eterosessuale ' col termine 'regolare'.Il romanzo dipinge un contesto (non troppo realistico, mi aspetterei una configurazione un po' più eterogenea) in cui l'unica persona non omosessuale presente è Rose, madre di Philip e moglie di Owen.E bizzarramente è proprio questa donna, il personaggio che a me è parso più compiuto, più credibile.
Ma era stata la sua vita.E Rose assiste distrutta al crollo delle sue convinzioni che pongono la famiglia al primo piano, come il più importante dei legami.
Scava nelle anime dei suoi personaggi così a fondo che, giuro, fa spavento (in senso buono), ed è soprattutto questo che fa acquistare loro pregnanza.
Leavitt rende così tangibili i loro desideri, le loro paure, insicurezze, che i personaggi acquistano quella concretezza delle persone reali, nella loro complessità e allo stesso tempo universalità.
Anche New York emerge in alcuni suoi lati particolari, come un naturale prolungamento dei personaggi, che spesso vagano per le sue strade meditabondi, solitari.
Tutto questo, poi, è coronato da uno stile fluido e ricco, che fa divorare le pagine, ma dà tante immagini e tanti particolari che aumenta quel senso di realtà, concretezza di cui ho prima parlato.
Lost Language of Cranes centers on the lives of Owen, Rose, and their son Philip.
In my reread, I was again smitten by the character Jerene, a graduate student.
Jerene studies lost languages for her dissertation, though that too is a language she loses when she drops out.
Leavitt writes about Jerene learning about a child who spoke the language of cranes: "he moved like s crane, made the noises of cranes." Jerene thinks: "What did it sound like?
The language belonged to Michel alone; it was forever lost to her.
I always find it hard to review a two-star book, because the inevitable question is 'well why did you read it?' I read this because it was sort of hinted to me that Leavitt is a kind of American Alan Hollinghurst.
However, his writing lacks the grace and style of Hollinghurst, and his characters lack the depth and complexity.Essentially this is a book about miserable people written in lifeless prose.
I've not been a closet homosexual, at least not to my knowledge (as we used to say).
Now I'm trying to imagine Owen, a 52-yr-old homosexual man who's lived the last 30ish years of his life only for Sundays.
I'm also trying to imagine living the warped life of his deprived & resented but also loved for non-sexual reasons wife.
I'm unable to imagine this kind of physical/emotional secrecy being unnoticed or noticed but ignored/pretended away for decades.
Makes me want to say we all accept diminished emotional lives, happiness is mostly about the quality of our compensations.
Without the whiff of judgment and scandal that must have made this book interesting to people back then, it's a pretty pedestrian read.
Too much exposition, poor dialogue, etc.It's such an interesting contrast to The Swimming Pool Library, which was written around the same time, and which I read last month for the first time.The events described in TLLC are far more realistic, but TSPL feels much more true, it contains so many great observations about human nature.
It hardly feels dated at all.Having now damned TLLC, I'll just add that it's a quick and actually pretty enjoyable read.
I read this all in a night, sucked in by the really beautiful prose and dead-on description of New York a little before I lived there but very recognizable. It's about a family whose son and father both come out as gay at about the same time, and all the men in the book are very artfully drawn. Little disappointed about the mother, Rose, who is a shrill caricature, but other than that, extremely well done.
Finally getting around to reading some of the books that were hot when I was coming out...it's very interesting to read this now, at 45, and draw the parallels of my younger gay years with Phillip's. Something comforting about reading this all these years later, that the endless 'drama' has subsided. :-)
Set in Manhattan in the 1980's, each of the three main characters has kept secrets from one another for a long time, and the story traces the need to finally reveal those secrets and the consequences each faces for doing that.Rose and Owen Benjamin have been married for twenty-seven years and live quiet, mundane lives on Manhattan's East Side.
The boy becomes the Crane-Child and when he is removed from them what he shared is forever lost.This is a perfectly slow-paced novel, just the right tempo to paint incredible characters and draw the reader into their lives.
This is a beautiful book with characters who will stay with me for a long time. Owen and Philip are interesting and well-developed. Leavitt uses the fact that both men are gay as a way to show various struggles of coming out and self-acceptance. It is a lovely exploration of the reactions from those we love. As the mother of an LGBTQ child I found myself experiencing many feelings. I was at times sad for Owen, worried for Philip and angry at those they loved.
A thoughtful moving novel about homosexuality, relationships, secrets and desires. Although I'm not familiar with the 1980s NYC that the book plays out in with the backdrop of Aids, there was a real sense of place and time, especially when Leavitt talks about gentrification and things moving on, & the brutal ugliness of homphobia is not shirked and emphasized front and centre is the courage needed to say aloud and come to terms with who one is and who one loves.
The literal only problem was this book was the frequent use of the word "lover"
It's a wonderful book. Great style, hard theme, easy read.
My sympathy for Philip's love for Eliot was strong, and my embarrassment in seeing myself in him so fully, even at his most pathetic moments, is surely a credit to Leavitt's writing.And though I may never have shared Owen's anxiety towards his latent homosexuality, it was illustrated brilliantly.
Truly, we sweat with Owen in the Bijou.Yet I found Rose to be the most interesting character in the whole novel.
Unlike many of the characters in 'TLLOC', Rose fails to speak a language of love by the end of the story.
I enjoyed seeing the parallels between Owen and his son, Phillip, who are both gay but grew up in different eras.
I wondered whether or not a solution was necessary, as leaving off the book with a bit of uncertainty emphasizes the father beginning his life anew, but I cannot help but shake the feeling that the issue with the apartment ended up being completely irrelevant.
Overall, the book is an interesting, well-written look at the gay community in the 1980s as well as people and families in general.
