https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13227454-the-unlikely-pilgrimage-of-harold-fry
The Harold Fry that leaves to mail a letter to his dying friend is drained by life, full of self-loathing and incapable of mending his ruined marriage.
He just keeps walking in the belief that his journey will save her life.
I wanted to shout “keep going Harold!”, to remind him of the adage ‘absence makes the heart grow fonder’ because Harold’s journey was testament to its truth.
Harold had abided by the British unspoken rule not to ask for help, yet it is constantly offered, and with such civility!I loved this book on so many levels.

Three star review has moved to Expendable Mudge Muses Aloud.But really, there are better ways to spend your eyeblinks than reading this mawkish treacle.
At one point in this book I was out reading, sunglasses on to cut the sun’s glare, and the story gripped my heart to the weeping point.
Yes, but the tears are falling from under the sunglasses and rolling down my cheeks.I did come in from outside (no tissues on my balcony) and then I thought, if Harold Fry is brave enough to walk so many miles and is not fussed about what people think of him, why can’t I sit out on my balcony and cry about his story?As I was reading, I really did want to hug this book – and I still do.

To those who say nobody wants to read about "old people", I'd say, read this book.
We fail to notice the continuing wonder and miracle of life.In this story, a couple in their 60s have made their peace, of sorts, following a horrific event in middle age.
This author, Rachel Joyce, has achieved this miracle: she describes the sweetness and difficulty of life in such a way that you can't separate the two, and are a better person for having realized this fact.Many thanks to Ms. Joyce for this winner.
mentions of both facebook and twitter in the book were curious.edited to add (pasted in from my comment below, in case people don't read the comments here):you know, the further i get from reading this book, the more it is sitting with me in a way that is far deeper than i originally stated.
she's a lovely woman and believes so strongly in harold that you can't help but wish the very best for both of them.as far as the booker: it would be very interesting if she/it won.
it's not the typical book for booker - it's a simple & sentimental story.
What to say about The Unlikely Pilgrimage of Harold Fry; a lovely read, a phenomenal book, exceptional and captivating.
Harold and Maureen's relationship has, over time, become one of simply sharing a house; rarely speaking and no longer even sharing a bed.
I've been in Harold's position albeit with a loved one but I didn't walk; I cleaned.
The belief Harold has in his walk is infectious; as I read on, I found a little voice in my head saying in my head: 'I hope she lives, I hope she lives' .
But a solitary walk from one end of England to the other gives much time for retrospect.
Along the way Harold will initially be critical of himself as he sees himself alone in the world thanks to uncertainty that he had all throughout his life from a young boy, a father to David and then with a wife he no longer communicates with.
I found myself riding all the emotions with Harold and was willing him on all the way.
At the heart of this is a story of a simple man, a threadbare marriage and a fractured country.
I fear I am heartless.Some people I respect as readers give this book five stars and I just can't.Basically, it is about a man taking a walk.
He gets bad news about an old friend and just starts walking, wearing the wrong kind of shoes and without bringing his 'mobile.' Most of the book is about regret and finding his way back to what matters.
You have my permission to call me heartless.I listened to the audio, which may be partly to blame for the plodding pace to the book.
One book that did is also about a walk, but has far more complexity and emotional range.
The crudeness of modernity and the grunge of the great outdoors are the antithesis of his usually disciplined existence; the fractiousness of other members of society offers a comedic contrast to Harold's unfailing innocence.Joyce optimistically recognises the kindness of strangers, who are happy to contribute to a good cause; although (because I am English) I would have at least expected a box of KFC bones to have been hurled at his head from a passing car, or for a farmer to have gurgled, "Get off my land!"This tenderly-written novel is the best I've read all year: it will cause you to chuckle from time to time, and there's a good chance it will bring a tear to your eye.So, if raw life experiences have left you mature beyond your years, or if you're a wrinkled old coffin-dodger, about to pop your clogs, this might be right up your street!And please abandon whatever it is you're reading.
It wasn't simply that he had betrayed Queenie (his co-worker and friend), and that his parents did not want him.
It wasn't simply that he had made a mess of everything with his wife and son.
Provoked to start the unlikeliest pilgrimage to Queenie Hennessey's hospice on the other side of England.
We come to know his wife, Maureen, back at the house, too.And we, all of the travelers on this journey, take this holy trek, too.This is a true pilgrimage: painful, poignant, and humorous.
What the heck, Goodreads??
Maybe I am all the more indignant because I was all, hey, check it out, it got this crazy good rating, and yay, my library managed to get it before I got too old to read, and isn't goodreads amazing because wow it alerts me to wonderful books and SO I DON'T HAVE TO READ BAD ONES ANYMORE EXCEPT THIS TIME I STILL DID!What is it with you people?
We have a nine year old's perception of old people, and small town life, and cancer.
"It was small as an apology." Hmmm??
A retired salesman for a brewery receives a letter of goodbye from an old friend, Queenie, who is dying of cancer, and, on the way to the mailbox with a return reply, ends up setting out on a 500 mile walk to visit her.
But it was a quick read and full of pleasant surprises and many special moments where the clouds of life’s travails and buried mistakes clear away for sunlit visions of redemption and truth.Part of Harold’s impetus comes from a stranger at a gas station who gives him the idea that faith and positive thinking can cure cancer.
A sheer delight to read! This novel will force you to slow down and reflect upon your life...
But it was so real, and so true, and so meaningful, I fell for the book all at once, right there at its very close.So if someone asked me what I liked about Harold Frye doing all that walking or what I got from reading about Harold and the circumstances that shaped him until he finally was able to throw them all off there on the side of England's highways...I would first say that I think the author meant for us to realize how we all carry our own particular burdens.
“The people he met, the places he passed, were all steps in his journey, and he kept a place inside his heart for each of them.” This was such a powerful book! I'm so glad I took the time to read it. I loved the writing style! BRILLIANT!
ABOUT THIS BOOK: A novel of unsentimental charm, humor, and profound insight into the thoughts and feelings we all bury deep within our hearts, The Unlikely Pilgrimage of Harold Fry introduces Rachel Joyce as a wise - and utterly irresistible - storyteller.
Then one morning the mail arrives, and within the stack of quotidian minutiae is a letter addressed to Harold in a shaky scrawl from a woman he hasn't seen or heard from in twenty years.
Often, as with the case of Maureen and Harold, we lose sight of the person we fell in love with.
I have recently reread parts of this book in conjunction with reading The Love Song of Miss Queenie Hennessy and I am revising my rating from 4 to 5 stars .
Each slow step, each blister, each new person Harold meets reveals something of the truth of his life to him and to us.An unwanted, neglected boy grew up to be an unremarkable man.
They made a lovely home with veggie gardens and had one son, David.Harold worked at the brewery for 45 years for an obnoxious bully of a boss (like his father), but Harold learned early to escape notice by fading into the woodwork.
Queenie Hennessey worked in finances at the brewery and was an equally unremarkable person.
Harold writes Queenie a letter and sets off to post it.
Harold’s odyssey if you will in Forrest Gump fashion taking it one day at a time.Burdened by a life where he has ended up feeling like nothing he did mattered, in a souless marriage that appears to be well past its expiration date, Harold has a destination in mind but of course it’s all about the journey getting there.
For me it was like getting lost in an adult fairy tale and I loved suspending reality for two days and following along as a pilgrim watching the progress.
"Be kind whenever possible.
It is always possible." ♥︎
Where to next Sancho?Harold Fry is definitely an unlikely hero.
Harold’s quest begins with a letter from a former co-worker he thinks of fondly.
Harold doesn’t even mean to go on a quest.
He scribbles some benign well wishes on a card to his dying co-worker and sets out to mail it and somewhere along that mini quest his journey becomes epic as he decides to walk to her hospice with a vague belief that she’ll HAVE to wait to die until he gets to her.
I loved the humor in “The Unlikely Pilgrimage of Harold Fry”.
I loved the spiritual quest even more.
I don't want to say much about the book, since so many have read and reviewed it already.Touching, endearing, realistic, emotional, good.It is one of the books on my To-Be-Read list that constantly landed on top, and I finally relented.
I took the time to venture off with Harold Fry with his letter to Queenie, felt the blisters, muscle spasms and emotional denouement as we walked 627 miles from south to north through England to deliver a letter personally.
A good experience.This book deserves all the attention it received.
Sweet and wonderful story...
Turns out that I couldn’t wait to say how breathtaking this story was to me, and how it made me feel.
Not necessarily the real one; not necessarily the world the reader knows.
The reader fills out your words with pictures, with breath, with feeling.”And that not only sums up what I love about reading, but also what Joyce did so incredibly well when she wrote this story.
She gave me Harold, Maureen, David, and Queenie, and she gave me a world to complete with my own experiences and imagination.
So in the end, I don’t think this was just Harold and Maureen’s journey, I think it was mine too.
Let's not jump to any conclusions, the whole goal of this discussion is just to figure out where we stand, and where we're headed, and if we want to go there and how much we're prepared to invest in terms of time and cognitive load...TUPOHF: Look, there are important revelations ahead for our main character Harold Fry, he's going to meet all these ordinary people who are just shock-full of life-changing, earth-moving wisdom...ME: Harold Fry. Let's start with him.
From the wonderful array of interesting characters in the book, the simple yet beautiful prose, the perfect pacing of the story, the delicate and vivid imagery, to the absolute thought provoking, sentimental, poignant and emotional feelings that the story aroused throughout.
It is a story that will remain with you long after you have finished reading it.
I adored this book and it is definitely one of my top five reads for 2012.
Harold, being an unemotional and non-demonstrative sort of man, felt very uncomfortable with Queenie's letter; however, he wrote back replying that he was sorry and wished her well.
It is acting in spite of it." I don't think I would be spoiling this wonderful story by revealing that Harold did indeed reach his destination and although he spent just a few moments with Queenie, his life was forever changed by the journey he had undertaken.
and to let go of all of the things from his life which held him back and kept him from becoming the man he was destined to be.Ms. Joyce has written a beautiful and inspiring story.
Not to mention he hasn't had much physical exercise in many years, and isn't all dressed for that type of journey.But walk he does, much to his surprise, and Maureen's shock, anger, and chagrin.
Harold's walk opens his mind to memories both good and painful, as he relives his friendship with Queenie and tries to figure out exactly where his and Maureen's relationship went wrong.
And during Harold's absence, Maureen tries to figure out the root of her anger with Harold, and whether her life is worth living without him.This is a compelling, enjoyable, and warm story about the unlikely journeys we take, sometimes simply to prove we still have life inside of us.
Oh wow, and wow...a book that actually made me cry, I think that's a first.
This book I so wish was chosen by my book club to read, it's so touching, so moving, so funny, so human and has one of the most powerful endings.I felt like I knew Harold personally, I cheered him on with his pilgrimage walk.This book is special, is about the human spirit, it felt so real at times it could almost be a true story, everyone should read this book.
Some breathtaking paragraphs that touched me so very deeply.
Wonderful book that you must read through to the end.
