https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/375901.Fr_d_ric
I thought I knew where this story was headed and then was totally surprised! Frederick and his family live in a rock wall near an abandoned barn. While Frederick’s counterparts spend the seasons gathering food in preparation for the hard winter, Frederick spends his days not working. I loved the illustrations and verse throughout.Written in 1967, Frederick won the Caldecott Honor award, and Lionni himself was awarded with both the Graphic Arts Gold Medal in 1984, and the Society of Illustrators
I thought I knew where this story was headed and then was totally surprised!
Frederick and his family live in a rock wall near an abandoned barn.
While Frederick’s counterparts spend the seasons gathering food in preparation for the hard winter, Frederick spends his days not working.
I loved the illustrations and verse throughout.Written in 1967, Frederick won the Caldecott Honor award, and Lionni himself was awarded with both the Graphic Arts Gold Medal in 1984, and the Society of Illustrators Lifetime Achievement Award posthumously in 2007.
Most of his books are considered children’s classics, and I look forward to reading more of his work.
This is the best book in the entire history of planet earth. not only are the pictures of little paper mice awesome the story is about a little lazy mouse who keeps getting yelled at because he sleeps and just sits there all day. but he is day dreaming and then the mice are like WTF frederick, get your ass up and help, and he's like, no way, im collecting colors for the winters are grey. then in the end all the food is gone and frederick recites poetry and saves everyones life. BEST BOOK EVER.
Leo Lionni’s illustrations were cute and simple and I really loved the images of Frederick and the mice themselves as they have round gray bodies, large round eyes and long grey tails and I love the way that the images look like they were cut out of cardboard as the outline of their bodies seem a bit rough among the edges.The reason why I gave this book a rating of four stars is because I thought that the ending was a bit too abrupt as I felt that more should have been said after what happened to the mice after winter was over.Overall, “Frederick” is a truly cute and inspiring book for children who love to become poets as much as I do and they want to find a picture book that would inspire them into the world of poetry.
Four of them work their little mousey tuchas' off to gather enough food to eat for the winter and enough hay to keep warm.
So the winter comes and the other mice are generous enough to let Frederick eat their food and keep warm due to their collective gathering.
That is when Frederick paints mental pictures of summer and shares bad poetry with them.
Had Frederick actually got off his rock and helped collect food whilst paying attention to his surroundings, perhaps the mice would not have gone without and still had his bad poetry to suffer through.
Frederick's poem does actually have a nice little moral.
وقتی زمستون میرسه اول همه چی خوب و خوش و خرمه، اما کم کم آذوقه ها تموم میشن و کسی دیگه دل و دماغ هیچکاری نداره، اینجاس که فردریک با حرف زدن از خورشید و خوندن شعر و غیره باعث میشه موشها گرم بشن و بتونن زمستون رو سر بکنن!
کار فردریک (شاعر-اندیشمند-فیلسوف) از کار موشهای دیگه ارزشمندتر نشون داده شدهبا همه ی این توصیفات به کتاب امتیاز بالایی میدم، هم بابت پایان غیرکلیشه ایش (اینکه برخلاف انتظار خواننده کار نکردن فردریک به تنبیه و پشیمانی و غیره ختم نمیشه)، هم بابت درگیر کردن ذهن، که این یعنی یه داستان فکریِ خوب
This story is about a mouse who daydreams and writes poems while the other 4 mice in his small community gather nuts and straw for the winter.
When the are all starving toward the end of the winter, he soothes them with some lovely poetry and sentiment.
Just a TERRIBLE message to little children who don't feel like contributing in a way that doesn't earn applause.
I couldn't believe my eyes reading this book.
His poem was lovely, but a terrible, terrible message for young people.
Really, I couldn't believe my eyes when I came to the end of the story and there was NO MORAL.
This story is going to be my go-to every time someone accuses me of being lazy: "Jeremy? Why aren't you helping us lift this dresser onto the moving truck? You should at least do SOMETHING!""I am doing something--I am absorbing colours into my memory and composing a sonnet in my head.""Oh dear, Jeremy's trying to Frederick his way outta work again!"
There are days I want to retreat to my pillow-and-blanket fort.
I tend to like picture books on those regressions, either colorful cookbooks or cute children's books.
I like it.
But after reading other reviews, I am giving 5 stars to support the book's "morals" or what some people call the lack thereof.
So Frederick doesn't work while other mice work hard to prepare for the winter.
The other four mice were not necessarily happy with Frederick, but they let him in and share the food anyway.
What Frederick has to offer doesn't matter to some people.
They want efficient, judgmental society with no arts.
Although this book is delightful for the kids, Frederick really inspires YOU!I'm adding this review for the impact it has had on me as an entrepreneur, idea generator, and casual writer.
I think Lionni wrote this book autobiographically as someone who was often focused on less tangible work (absorbing and imagining).
While so many laborers around us do the "real work", we spend our time not conforming to the traditions: we generate free content, feedback, software, bug reports, etc., and to many, those are intangibles.
We leave traditional jobs to do things that many consider unimportant or even irresponsible wasting of time.To the chagrin of his hard-working peers, Frederick gathered sunrays, colors, and words.
Frederick sammelt nicht dieselben Vorräte, die sich auf Essen und Polstermaterial für den Winter beschränken, wie seine Familie.
Die Altersempfehlung ab drei Jahren finde ich für den Titel angemessen, allerdings kann er vom Inhalt auch schon für etwas Jüngere passen, wenn ihre Aufmerksamkeitsspanne für die 40 Seiten ausreichend ausgeprägt ist, da es hier auch viel mit den Kindern zu entdecken gibt.Die Jubiläums-Edition aus dem Hause Beltz ähnelt ihren Vorgängern sehr, besitzt aber ein besonderes Highlight: Im hinteren Teil des Buchs ist eine Bastelanleitung und das Papierzubehör eingelegt, damit sich die kleinen Leser mit ihren Vorlesern ein Mobile basteln können.
Frederick sits and daydreams all day while the rest of his mouse family is busy collecting fruits and nuts for the coming winter.
When they ask him what he's doing just sitting there, he answers that he's busy collecting colors or words for when there are none.
Finally the winter comes and the rest of the mice are feeling down because of the dreary weather, and Frederick is called upon to give them some of what he'd been collecting all that time.
Lionni uses collage and some painting for the book, changing the palatte to grays and browns when the winter comes, and conveying the emotion of the mice through their eyes.
When Frederick was telling his siblings to close their eyes and imagine the sun and the colors, my niece took his suggestions to heart.
We live in the grey Pacific Northwest, so we totally identified with what cloudy, colorless winters are like!
With her eyes closed, a little smile came onto my niece's face and she said, "Mmmm...
And the colors *are* beautiful!" We both smiled at the end of the story, and agreed that it's a pretty great book.
But he did like the picture of the mouse tracks in the snow.
How I made it through childhood without reading this book, I'll never know, but I adore this story. It reminds us of the importance of the arts -- anyone who thinks that the dreamers who play with words and colors and ideas are useless to society might consider how they would get through a winter without music, books, movies, and other forms of art. This is a wonderful story.
3.5 out of 5It's like "The Ant and the Grasshopper" fable, except the "grasshopper" turns out to be right. Hmm...In any case, I am not a huge fan of construction paper illustrations, but I loved these :)
**** Caldecott Honor (1968) ****nice little story about a seemingly lazy mouse who uses unique ingenuity to keep he ans his fellow field mice warm during the winter.
Soarecii chiar strang provizii de hrana pentru iarna. II ajuta insa si creativitatea sa faca rost de provizii.Soarecii sunt colorblind, ei vad nuante de gri, galben si albastru.Expunerea excesiva la soare duce la dependenta la soareci in laborator.In loc sa critici pe cei diferiti, te poti bucura de diferenta lor.
Drei Sichtweisen auf einen Klassiker:Es gibt immer mehrere Interpretationsmögichkeiten einer Geschichte, beim Kinderbuchklassiker Frederick drängen sich zwei verschiedene auf.1. Jene, die das Buch zu einem Klassiker machte. Die Menschheit braucht Farben, Poesie und Träumer und selbst die bravsten Arbeiter können ohne Poesie und die Geisteswissenschaften nicht dauerhaft überleben und glücklich werden. Wenn die Zeiten hart werden, dann helfen einem Träume, Philosophie und Gedichte, diese Zeiten zu
Davon abgesehen, dass es sich um ein falsch verkürztes Bibelzitat handelt, wenden wir diese Sichtweise der deutschen Gesellschaft mal auf dieses Buch an: Frederick hat sich in der sozialen Hängematte ausgeruht, während die anderen Mäuse gearbeitet haben und Vorräte für den Winter angeschafft haben.
Eigentlich wäre es nach Hartz IV Logik des Herrn Müntefering daher sinnvoll gewesen, wenn sie Frederick nichts zu essen gegeben hätten, dann hätte das Futter womöglich bis zum Ende des Winters gereicht und man hätte seine dummen Geschichten gar nicht gebraucht.Fazit: Super Kinderbuch, um das Thema Hartz IV und Münteferings verfälschtes Zitat zu diskutieren, denn hier werden die alten Werte hochgehalten und kollidieren mit der aktuellen Sichtweise auf die (Leistungs-)Gesellschaft.
Your Name Your Group What You Do How It HelpsFrederick Family of Mice Observes the Scenery Tells stories  based on his observations to cheer up his  family.*Mouse Mini Book: As a group create a class book based on the sequence of what happened in the story.
Children can sequence the pages, cut and staple to create their own book to read.* Mobile of Colors, Sunrays, and Words: Children can make a mouse mobile to link the places where Frederick made his observations with the words he used in his stories during the cold dark winter.
I think it is oke to tells the children that they can help friends with their own way but I am afraid that the children will learn to do what they pleased to do rather that give a real contribution to community also I am afraid this book gives a wrong message to children, gives them ideas to have an excuses for their laziness.I don't know, i should try to read this story to children and see how they reacted.
While the other field mice work the summer away gathering food for winter, Frederick sits on a rock by himself gathering the sun’s rays, colors, and words for the cold, dark, and long winter days that lie ahead.
When all of the food has run out, Frederick’s “supplies” and poetic words warm the mice and bring them comfort.Frederick is a truly inspirational story about the power of imagination that is sure to capture the heart of its readers, young and old alike.
Also, the illustrations remind me somewhat of Eric Carle’s- although Lionni uses more earthy tones that are true to nature.
Frederick gathers survival materials of a completely unexpected, unusual nature, providing a wonderful twist to this popular fable.The Kindle edition re-creates print versions, featuring Lionni’s simple, beautiful collages.
Illustrations clearly support the text, with a clear, large font.This reviewer did not detect controversial or questionable content.
Related texts might include Aesop’s Fables (Stories for Young Children) (ISBN-10: 079451135X) and Greek Myths for Young Children (ISBN-10: 0794530494).Classroom activities based upon this book might include retelling and dramatization, and introductory genre comparisons.
Children reading at Chall’s Stage 0 or 1 will enjoy listening to the story as they examine the supportive illustrations.
Frederic is possibly the first book that ever disturbed me.
I was a child who had grown up on such stories as The Little Red Hen ('You didn't help me harvest the grain; you didn't help me bake the bread; you will not help me eat the bread.') and even at that age, I believed in the power of hard work (or at least the necessity of it.) Frederic is a story about a family of mice who prepares for the winter by gathering various supplies, all of them, that is, except for Frederic.
And this is what disturbed little me so.
Cute story of a happy little mouse family. In this story Frederick the mouse sat staring out at the meadow instead of helping collect food for the winter. He gave his family excuses not to help with the food. Instead he said he was collecting sun rays, colors, and words for the winter was gray and cold. After the mice eat all their food asked Frederick to share his collection. IN the end he did and helped the mice forget the cold of the winter.
This book is so darn cute! I love it! This is another one that my pre-K-ers don't quite fully understand but they did have fun when I told them to close their eyes and imagine everything Frederick has the other mice in the book imagine (yes, you can get kids to meditate, just don't call it that or they'll think it's boring).
I read this in German and i feel so proud of myself for understanding as much as I did. It was weird though.
First impression, this is a lazy mouse who is going to get what he worked (nothing) come winter.
Second impression, cute poem.
Third impression, the artistic "feel good" things have their place and may nourish a soul, but the body will starve to death before you can enjoy the colors.
I don't like the lesson this teaches.
I would not read this to my grandchildren until they were old enough to have a good discussion about it.
I would prefer a lesson about relaxing and writing poetry AFTER the food is gathered in.The one star is for the clever illustrations.
Very educational and informative book with very lovely illustrations for little kids! It's about a mouse, Frederick. All the field mice, except him, are busy preparing and gathering food for the cold Winter months. Instead of working as hard as others, he spends his days staring at the meadow seemingly half asleep. When others complain about his behaviour, he claims that he's also a hard-working mouse. Is he? If so, how come...I highly recommend it to parents of little kids!
So this arsehole of a mouse is writing poetry whilst everybody else is slaving away getting ready for winter? And we should applaud that?! C'est dégoûtant.Sure, poetry can save lives. You know what else can, Frederick? Food. You cunt.
Goddamn slacker beatnik. I'm lap
His words enlighten and comfort the other rats in cave in the midst of winter lacks of food and warmth as an excuse of doing nothing (literally nothing, only whining and being so poetic dumb ass) while his other rats were working their ass off to gather food and prepare for the shelter because they are less smart than the fucking poet named Frederick is.
Frederick doesn't have to input his intellect in the labors when the result is his artistic sophistication is overly admired by the other rats (people) and in the end, all is built up to shape his aspects (basic needs like food and shelter is prepared for the other "labor" rats) in order to produce a praised-worthy poem to the others.
