https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/186074.The_Name_of_the_Wind
(Yes, my brother is one of my GR friends and will likely see this review.) Now on to the reasons I couldn't finish the book.Most of The Name of the Wind is written in the first person; it's the autobiography of Kvothe, who has a number of things in common with "The Most Interesting Man in the World." Kvothe is reciting his life story to a scribe while his male companion, Bast, looks on.FOOTNOTEThere are several interesting facts pertaining to Kvothe and Bast.
Google, Goodreads, book reviewing sites, 9gag, even some people who don't read a lot of fantasy books, they have all praised the series highly and now that I’ve read it, it’s my opinion that the fame is well deserved and there’s no doubt that this is truly a fantastic adult high fantasy book.In terms of plot overview, the book is actually highly simplistic.
Picture: Tarbean by Dan Dos SantosIf you haven’t read this book yet, you’re probably wondering why this book became one of the most highly acclaimed fantasy books of our time.
Don’t come into this book expecting a lot of action, war or great climax scenes, because you’ll be massively disappointed.
The only thing is, he's young yet (Chronicler judges him to be about 25, though at times he looks infintely older), and there are things happening in "real time" that intrude upon the story, that will need to be resolved I think - so while I have every confidence Rothfuss has excellent control over his creation, I would love more than three books :)I can't think of the last time I was this impressed by any story, let alone a fantasy novel.
I read it in what for me was a very short span of time - it had that 'more-ish' quality that best sellers need.Can I see what makes this the single best selling epic fantasy for a generation (apart from George Martin's series)?
Kvothe's real powerful enemy sits in the background as a motivator (& presumably story for books 2 & 3) while his 'school-boy' adversary at the university fills in for bad guy for most of the book.Like Blood Song, and many other really successful books, TNOTW is at its core a school story.
But no, nothing of great significance.A final observation: throughout the book we (like Kvothe) are constantly aware of money.
I read fantasy to immerse myself in strange worlds ripe with danger and conflict.
His world is about as strange and dangerous as a mashed potato sandwich.
His protagonist is comically overblown wish fullfillment for people who weren't popular in college.
I'm absolutely mystified that this novel is so highly regarded by so many.I welcome fans of the book to explain its appeal.
Specifically:* Writing quality.
I found the quality of the prose very poor.
I have no interest in wish fullfilment in fiction.
So what other content does this novel offer me as a reader?
I kinda liked this book. But my opinion on the matter probably shouldn't be trusted....
Welcome to 600+ pages narrated by that guy.I wanted to love this book SO much because of the hype that I dragged myself through the entire thing while desperately trying to ignore how much I loathed the main character.Kvothe is awesome at basically everything he does without even trying and everyone he meets either worships him or hates him & is out to get him.
He's suddenly the greatest lute player ever MINUS 1 STRING *gasp.* "Dammit boy, I hope you're as good as you seem to think you are" just about sums this book up.The author kept having the narrator refer to the typical fantasy story in order to point out how he wasn't being cliche.
Whose brilliant idea was it to throw around the GRRM and Harry Potter comparisons, thereby actually getting me to waste my pennies on this book when the money could've been better spent, I dunno, on some new dish sponges or perhaps bundled together into a lump sum donation to the Feminist Fantasy Writer Foundation?
And for God's sake, why do male fantasy writers always write about do-everything, know-it-all male heroes who vanquish dragons, defeat their conniving rivals, strangle angels, and literally walk through fires /carrying weeping females over their shoulders like sacks of potatoes/????
too late for that), but this book represents pretty much everything I hate about high fantasy.
MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading List IT WAS NIGHT AGAIN. The Waystone Inn lay in silence, and it was a silence of three parts. The most obvious part was a hollow, echoing quiet, made by things that were lacking. If there had been a wind it would have sighed through the trees, set the inn's sign creaking on its hooks, and brushed the silence down the road like trailing autumn leaves.   This is only part of the prologue to THE NAME OF THE WIND that drew me right in, the whole prologue was so bea
He finds a way to help himself out and decides he's going to University :-) But it's the little kindnesses of people and Kvothe himself that touch my heart.
But mostly because it felt like the right thing to do, and that is reason enough.
For the love of God, if you haven't read this book and love these kinds of high fantasy novels, READ IT!
I also bought the second book on the same day because I could at the time and I knew I would love these books.
I have so many unanswered questions and I'm not even mad about it.
”Words are pale shadows of forgotten names. As names have power, words have power. Words can light fires in the minds of men. Words can wring tears from the hardest hearts. There are seven words that will make a person love you. There are ten words that will break a strong man's will. But a word is nothing but a painting of a fire. A name is the fire itself.”Okay, there are books andthen there are  BOOKS!!! I guess this said it actually doesn’t take a lot to figure that “The Name of the Wind” de
I guess this said it actually doesn’t take a lot to figure that “The Name of the Wind” definitely was one of those books that falls into the latter category.
*lol*I’m sure by now you all wonder what made this book so special for me and I decided to break my usual review routine to give you the answers you’re searching for.
*lol* I swear there was more than one moment I was like: DAMN THIS IS SO ME!!
*sigh* I’m almost afraid to read the next book.
READ IT NOW!!!!” but “The Name of the Wind” definitely is one of those rare books!
The more of it I read, the more I realize traditional "epic" fantasy of the multi-book series tack is not quite for me.Or maybe I am bad at choosing, since I really like some of it (Martin, Bujold).
I'm not against a long book if I feel like I got something back for the time invested.
To be fair, it's the start of what promises to be an epic story, but that means I'll have to read the next two books in the series to be satisfied.
I am using a Harry Potter reference in retaliation to all those people who are somehow comparing this to that series, for the sole reason that there's a freaking magical university.
That so many people do seem to see the comparisons just makes me shake my head in wonder - because either they're seeing things that aren't there, or I'm very myopic when it comes to my beloved Harry Potter.
Patrick Rothfuss’s The Name of the Wind (The KingKiller Chronicle #1) is a work I should have read a long time ago.
At the time, I had been plowing through books, and I’ve since discovered that this is not the way to get to know or appreciate The Name of the Wind.
This first book in The KingKiller Chronicle emphasizes the early years of a wizard named Kvothe, framed against what we know (or can surmise) about the present-day fugitive Kvothe who is telling the story.
I also heard echoes of Colonel Aureliano Buendía from Gabriel Garcia Marquez’s One Hundred Years of Solitude as well as tons of mythology.
Here you go:CAIT'S CHECKLIST OF GOODNESS IN BOOKS:• young genius narrator ✓• who is totally too sassy at times because #clever ✓• magic ✓• plus an intensely amazing MAGIC SYSTEM THAT IS THRILLING AND COMPLEX AND YAS ✓✓✓• epic friendships ✓• dragons (although it was a vegetarian dragon but whatever, can't have everything) ✓• music appreciation ✓• evil that does not sleep ✓• magical university• intense library appreciationLike I seriously can't flail enough.
So it's equal parts learning complex magic things, and watching Kvothe be banned from the university, make enemies, lose all his money, be a disgusting little GENIUS, and never never stop learning because hE LOVES LEARNING.
Upon this second reading, I've come to the conclusion that the audiobook for this isn't the greatest. SO, if you're reading it for the first time I INSIST that you read the actual book. 100% the best way to read this book. Also I am SO READY for book two.
Well let me tell you, this doesn't stand alongside the fantasy greats, it knocks them off the shelves.It isn't just some fantastic epic that you read for fun and adventure (although you'll get plenty of that too).
I thought Kvothe ended his story in a perfect place to set up anticipation for the next book, and the little scene with Bast and the Chronicler that closed the story was brilliant, set up interest in the current setting.
Its a pleasure to read such a fantastic book by a guy that actually seems to deserve the privilege of having come up with it.
Kvothe’s nature suggests that his feats were achieved with ease, but his story tells the truth of it: here is the tale of an aracanist who had to struggle and fight his for everything he ever earnt.
Rothfuss has Kvothe narrate it is such a way that you are listening in earnest for every word; he makes you feel like you are sitting in the Wayward Inn with the chronicler and Bast; he makes you feel like you are there as he tells his life story: he makes you feel like you are hearing the legendary Kvothe reveal his secrets for the first time.
And if you are uncomfortable that I point out the lack of strong female characters, the main character as essentially a male Mary Sue, or the fact that the entire book was pure male fantasy wish fulfillment, then perhaps you should consider some personal reflection on why those points upset you.ETA: I had to downgrade this from 2 stars to 1.
After he joined the University, the story picked up a bit and became more engaging -- but there was still no real point to the book...
On a whim, I started filling out the Mary Sue litmust test for Kvothe but got tired of checking all the boxes.
I really, really wish I could give this negative stars.
BOOK.
FREAKING.
GOOD.I'm not over it.
Everyone was right it's amazing and I love it so much and I'm still sad the third book isn't out even though it's been basically six years it's fine EVERYTHING IS FINE.This book has all the makings of a great fantasy.
Amazing world building.
Characters that you connect with & that grow.
Plot that moves along very well and is supremely interesting.
It's pretty easy to understand the basics so there isn't a ton of info-dumping.I also listened to the audiobook part of the time and really really enjoyed it!It's just great and you should read it.
a review of three parts     it was night again. the keys of a laptop lay in wait to create a review, and it was a review of three parts.the most obvious part was a full, echoing story, made by the letters that were written on a page. if the words came to life it would have done so in the form of a young man name kvothe, eager to know the answers to lifes greatest questions, thirsty for any knowledge he could get his hands on. if the story was written in music, it would have been composed to
the keys of a laptop lay in wait to create a review, and it was a review of three parts.the most obvious part was a full, echoing story, made by the letters that were written on a page.
it was the weight of knowing that the person you were before reading this book became someone new and improved at the end of it.
and it was in the hands of the girl who sat on her bed, tapping away at the black keys under her fingers that gleamed in the soft glow of the laptop screen.
I really disliked the main character, to the extent that I couldn't get more than 1/3rd through it. The other problem I had was the language: Kvothe's eyes are described as shards of ice just a sentence before his voice is likened to a sharp steel blade. Ah well--there's lots of other high fantasy in the world.
I don't have words adequate enough to express how much I enjoyed this book. Kvothe is now one of my all-time favorite characters. The world Patrick Rothfuss has created is so vivid and rich and well-imagined. I ate this book up because it was SO DARN GOOD!!! Seriously, no coherent and structured review here because I am just gushing over how fantastic this book is. If you even remotely enjoy fantasy books (and especially if you don't think you like fantasy) go read this book now! 5/5 stars and a contender for my favorite read of 2015.
I heard a lot of hype and great things about this book from just about everyone and their mom in order to tell everyone else and their mom who has not read the book to read it so they can fall in love and rate it five stars.
One is Kvothe is a mixed character just like the main character of The Magicians, Quentin, where both characters are in a love or hate relationship.
The biggest difference between the two books is that The Magicians is not as well like, having an almost a star less in the ratings.
Personally I think Drizzt would have won just because he is over infinite times better of character than Kvothe ever will ever be.
It's a bit like reading a biography of someone you have never heard of, wondering why all these stories are included, and hoping they all carry some purpose, but knowing, deep inside, they probably don't.
WHY did you include THIS event, why choose to tell THIS, that's what I want to know, but older Kvothe provides no comments and thus, I am left in the dark, bored and frustrated.
Kvothe seems to not really know what he wants and thus the story lacks direction.
I think the "climax" might have been Kvothe killing a draccus (while learning very little about the Chandrian) and wanting to be a hero, because it felt good.
1.) The Name of the Wind ★★★★★2.) The Wise Man's Fear ★★★★★2.4) The Lightning Tree ★★★★★2.5) The Slow Regard of Silent Things ★★★★★3.) Doors of Stone n/aI always feel like when I write a review for a five star book I'm not doing the book justice.
His family accepts an arcanist named Abenthy (Ben) into their troupe and Kvothe soon finds a new best friend in him.
He also teaches him more about the world and a place called The University, which could help shape Kvothe's very gifted mind.
I just caved and bought this book, even though my birthday is in less than a month... IT'S JUST SO BEAUTIFUL I COULD NOT WAIT.
If the book isn't evidence enough for his love of story, check out the many interviews he's done and notice how often he responds by saying, "Let me tell you a story about that...."On many levels, the story of Kvothe is a familiar one.
I wish I had seen a little more of the present, but I'm assuming I'll get more answers in the next books.While there's a fair amount of action, at it's heart The Name of the Wind is simply the story of Kvothe.
If I had to point to a weakness, it would be that some of Rothfuss' antagonists feel a bit two-dimensional.
Books that I purchase again and again because I can’t help but give them away because I desire so deeply to share the experience of them with those I love or even those who are little more than strangers?
I’ve read some books that were beautifully written, so lovely that I read them through a sheen of tears.
I’ve read this book three times, and have owned four copies.
I don’t have the words to express just how deeply I love this book, but I’ve made my best attempt through this review.
