https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/155618.The_Incredible_Adventures_of_Professor_Branestawm
I think Heath Robinson (hang on I'll check - yes) did the illustrations and Wikipedia have reminded me that the Professor invented a clock that didn't need winding up (this was the 30s)- 'but the omission of an important component ("I forgot to put a little wiggly thing in") means the clock doesn't stop at twelve but continues striking thirteen, fourteen and so forth until it can't keep up with itself.' There are many more of these type of inventions.Ah Miss Harrison.
She said I was a good writer (I was 9) and set me up on a project to write a long story (over 10 pages she said but i think I did 30) and had another pupil do the illustrations, another one to bind it and so on.
Being a strong bibliophile, just lately (I am a senior) have been acquiring as many children's classics I once knew and loved and re-reading them.
Having not previously been familiar with Professor Branestawm, and seeing this book in a shop once or twice before, took absolutely no particular notice.
Now as a new Goodreads member, I've been scrolling through some reviews of children's books.
Arriving home I devoured it cover to cover (thank goodness it's the weekend) and am happy to confirm what many others have reported---this is a terrifically funny book and Heath Robinson's illustrations, as always, are fantastic.
Especially love the libraries' books and the burglar trial.
Thanks, Goodreads!
But the Professor's principle of getting a copy of the same book out of one library in order to check it back into a different one is not unlike the way some people use credit cards, so I expect people will relate to it.I kept wondering whether the book is too dated for the modern MG reader.
I've finished this book over a month ago but I still remember how utterly silly this Professor Branestawm is!
He's a silly, funny and wacky character who is (almost) always working on new inventions.Then there is his housekeeper Mrs. Flittersnoop who tries to help the Professor but she doesn't know that she's not actually helping him at all but making things worse.
This book was definitely fun even though it took me sometime to finish it.
Overall I recommend this book to people who enjoyed  The Magic Pudding,  Pippi Longstocking and  Alice in Wonderland.
They all have a wacky sense of humour and adventures.
How is it that this book has eluded me all my life?
It should be in every library in the world.
Yes, a worthy choice for 1001 Children’s Books You Must Read.Professor Branestawm (his last name, I learned, is a homophone of the word “brainstorm”) is a classic absent-minded professor.
The professor spends his days creating amazing inventions like a Spring-Cleaning Machine and an Elixir of Vitality and a Clock-That-Doesn’t-Need-Winding, always accompanied by his patient housekeeper Mrs. Flittersnoop and his loyal friend Colonel Dedshot.
I can see movie makers eating this movie up.A 1001 Children’s Books You Must Read Before You Grow Up.
These stories possess a lovely logic whereby all the professor's inventions become Frankenstein monsters taking the Professor and Colonel Dedshott to places they would rather not go: I still have my battered old copy from the Sixties which I treasure as my favourite book from junior school days. Norman Hunter has certainly influenced my own writing, particularly my short stories where processes of degeneration abound. I wouldn't say Professor Branestawm is likely to greatly enrich anyone's emotional life, but for sheer fun and inventiveness these stories stand up there with the best children's books.
Re-reading for a fanfic project. I had forgotten quite what a wizard of silliness Norman Hunter was, and how he can be hilariously funny using simple, childsize words and sentences.
I know this is a kiddies book but it was v entertaining!
Professor Branestawm is an absent-minded inventor who has five different pairs of glasses (at the same time) and gets into all sorts of crazy situations. This one didn't do much for me. It seems like a bedtime story that a parent is making up haphazardly as he goes along, without much thought invested and while trying too hard to be silly.
I just couldn't get into this book. I didn't find it funny, I didn't like the characters, I found it too random and I felt like I was wasting my time. I cannot say if all of the stories are like this, but because I have given up after the 3. story I can only rate this book a 1 star (reserved for books I didn't want to finish).
4.5 stars. I cannot believe what a jewel of a book I have discovered. Very imaginative, charming and funny read. The writing style is perfection.
Not one for me in particular. I found the stories a little outdated and the slightly odd language he used at times made it distracting to follow.
Heath Robinson.It was lovely to revisit these stories, especially "The Wild Waste-Paper" (Professor Branestawm invents an elixir of life, which the housekeeper, Mrs Flittersnoop, accidentally knocks over into his wastepaper basket), "The Professor Borrows a Book" (the Professor loses the copy of The Life and Likings of a Lobster from the library at Great Pagwell; checks out the Little Pagwell library's copy and returns that at Great Pagwell, then checks it out again and loses it; checks out the Upper Pagwell library's copy, and so on until all fourteen Pagwellian libraries are involved), and "Colonel Branestawm and Professor Dedshott" (in which the Professor and his best friend, Colonel Dedshott, are invited to a fancy-dress ball and decide to dress as each other).I'm not quite sure what I think about Professor Branestawm as a character.
The zany sense of humor really stood out in this delightful read for all.
As sometimes happens, a random conversation at work about lost glasses led to me talking about a book I'd read at school MANY years ago.
The story of the lost library books could NOT happen today, with every copy having its own unique bar code and number.But they are still fun.The original absent-minded nutty Professor, Branestawm is delightfully silly, Deadshott is pompous, Flittersnoop is flighty.It is a slice of the past, and I'm glad I revisited it.
The first chapter "The Professor Invents A Machine" has the Professor & his friend Colonel Dedshott killing off people for a bit of sport.
Then there is a cracking racist slur in Chapter 11 "Colonel Branestawm and Professor Dedshott", as well as some other sexist & racist comments in Chapters 12 & 13 ("The Professor Moves House" & "Pancake Day At Great Pagwell").But don't let that turn you away!
I know I'm probably causing plenty of tut-tutting amongst purists, but I can only base my rating on a contemporary reading.
I read this first as a small boy and have not ceased to dip into it with great joy, despite my now considerable age.Norman Hunter wrote many books about the Professor but this is his first ande greatest appearance.
Branestawm, aided by the brilliant Heath Robinson illustrations, is a children's delight that deserves to sit just a little south of The Wind in the Willows and Alice in Wonderland.The addle-pated professor is an inventive genius.
But his inventions always have consequences far beyond their simple purpose.
He is aided by his long-suffering housekeeper, Mrs Flittersnoop and his indomitable and bumptious friend, Colonel Dedshott of the Catapult Caviliers.Inimitable.
I read this when I was about 7, so there's not much I remember about it now, some 40-odd years later.
However, I do remember it so it obviously made a favourable impression on me at the time.
Or maybe it's where I was reading it that makes it memorable, as I have a very strong sense of place about this book.
I was staying with my Nana at the time and I recall reading it in my makeshift bed, which was a broken lilo at her bedside.
This is my favourite thing: reading!
Funny stories about the escapades of Professor Branestawn who is an ingenious but incompetent inventor, his housekeeper Mrs Flittersnoop and his best friend Colonel Deadshott. Cleverly written with lots of puns and silly scenes and a laugh every few seconds. The illustrations by Heath Robinson are wonderful. My original copy of this book isn't an edition available on Goodreads, it's from the early 1930's and is rapidly falling to pieces.
Fourteen stories of an absent-minded professor, his madcap inventions and his long-suffering friends, vintage 1930 or thereabouts, and still causing laughter off the scale for today's youngsters. Being mistaken for a living waxwork, inventing a pancake machine and trying to borrow one book from 14 libraries in sequence are just some of the bizarre situations he finds himself in. Still funny after all these years, both boys pronounced it very funny.
This was never an author or series that I read when I was young, and now I feel that I was missing out. I loved the bumbling professor, whose mad inventions never quite work out as he planned and who is forever losing his glasses. The writing is funny and very clever, with some great use of 'sound effects' to create the image of each adventure in your head. A great read that made me smile and put me in a good mood.
Bizarre, clichéd pre WWII world, a bit like Jeeves and Wooster for kids. Very difficult to read out loud - took me ages to realise Mrs Flittersnoop was Irish - but we got there in the end. My boy burst out laughing repeatedly, but not sure if that because he understood what was happening, or because he didn't. Now has a love of heath Robinson which can't be a bad thing.
I loved these books as a kid and they helped inspire a different way of looking at the world in me.I have never returned to the books as an adult and am almost frightened to do so. However, the eight year old deep inside me still has such very fond memories of the absurdity of all these books which used to make me laugh out loud.
I read this when I was in 4th grade and it was my favorite book that year. My 9 y o who is in 4th grade is not as impressed. Absent-minded professor with many pairs of glasses does crazy experiments that often go off the rails.
This was a favourite while I was in the juniors. I think it was mostly becuase of Heath Robinson's illustrations. There was also a Professor Branestawm's Dictionary which was full of atrocious puns (things like Badminton Court referring to the capture of evil criminal Minton, etc.).
Brilliant, so glad I found this. About to start reading it to my 6 year old son...If its half as good as I.remembet its well worth the 5 stars.. My son loved this and insists I read him more branestawm as soon as I can!
اين كتاب براي مني كه تازه كتاب خوندن رو شروع كرده بودم اونم تو سن نوجواني خيلي خيلي جالب بود،بخصوص اينكه علاقه خاصي به فيلم هاي علمي هم داشتم و با اين كتاب به دنياي كتاب هاي عليم تخيلي پا گذاشتم،البته اونقدر عليم يو تخيلي نبود ولي خوب براي من كتاب بزرگي بود
One of my most favorite childhood books.
It only took one hour and thirty minutes to read it. Mr. Professor Branestawm is always inventing things and forgetting things.He is a complete artist and he is extremely smart .
Dated but fun; I read this as a child, forgot about it and was reminded in a bookstore when I saw this and two others.
