https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23751850-the-hypnotist-s-love-story
She's a good writer, offering fun dialog and characters to like and dislike.
But if an author is going to write as though something big is going to happen at any moment, please, God, that author should make something happen ONCE in 432 pages.
So many missed opportunities for a good story here.
(Oh, one big flaw.
A man takes a woman for a romantic getaway to the same hotel that he took his ex/current stalker to just a few short years before?
And that woman doesn't mind?
The Hypnotist's Love Story tells about the romance between Ellen, the hypnotist, or more accurately, hypnotherapist, and Patrick, a grounded surveyor who is a widower with an eight-year-old son.
This is an interesting set-up, but the author, Liane Moriarty, makes it compelling by giving a first person voice to Saskia, the stalker, while Ellen's story is in third person.
Having just finished this book today, I felt like I could understand his situation a little better, how a stalker could make you feel powerless and out of control of your own life.
I’m a big fan of Moriarty’s books, but I pretty much disliked this one from the start.
She’s single and keen to settle down, if she can find the right man.
Along comes Patrick, a widowed surveyor with an eight-year-old son – is he the man she’s been looking for?
They are always secondary characters in her work but it’s most noticeable here with the one dimensional and totally dislikeable (to me, anyway) Patrick.
I’m happy to write this one off and look forward to her next book in the firm belief it’ll be a continuance of her fine overall form.
Her characters are always somewhat off center, yet always very interesting and appealing in so many ways.
So many times, in so many ways, this book just didn’t feel appropriate for the age groups that were featured.
The characters were not endearingly ‘off center’ in this book, they were annoyingly so.The premise was good and could have been very interesting.
In good conscience, this is not one I would recommend unless you have no problem overlooking immature, unethical, and undeveloped behavior and ways of relating from people in age groups who should know better.
The story is told from the dual perspectives of Ellen and Saskia, each relaying a different perspective on Patrick and his son, Jack.
While Ellen is the central character, the person most effected by Patrick’s past, as she tries to carve out a future with him, everything seems to hinge on Patrick’s ability to move on and accept that he can experience guilt free happiness.There were some controversial moments, and I some thought provoking scenes, which would make for some lively discussion, but overall, this is really a rather curious love story, with each character taking monumental steps toward maturity and stability, and closure.
“I thought Patrick was my perfect love story. Except he's not. He's the hypnotist's love story. I'm the ex-girlfriend in the hypnotist's love story. Not the heroine. I'm only a minor character.” This was not, in my opinion, a love story. If asked to describe this book to a friend, I would say The Hypnotist’s Love Story was fantastic storytelling about a woman who didn’t really know what she wanted and another woman who didn’t have the coping mechanisms to let go of the past. There were three ma
There were three main characters in the story - Ellen - the Hypnotist, Patrick - Ellen’s new love interest and Saskia -Patrick’s ex and stalker.Though Patrick was a main character in the book, we really only got to see his personality and thoughts through the two women in the book.
Only then can you truly enjoy having them in your life.Very early on in the story, as Ellen talked about the ethics of her using her hypnotherapy skills on people she knew all the while wondering what was going on in Patrick's head, I kept thinking to myself --- careful.
If I didn't hate him so intensely, maybe I would have been able to stop loving him.Okay, so I am apparently a bit of a booksnob.
Everytime I read a book by either Liane, Jodi Picoult and now also Joshilyn Jackson I always point out that this was just a fun read in between more serious reads, a palate cleanser if you will.
I herewith proudly announce that I am officially a chick lit reader.Liane Morairty is fast becoming one of my favourite authors, I have now read all her books, and is anxiously awaiting the next.
I love her characters in this title, you feel for everyone even the "bad" stalker.
As we travel along with the characters of this novel, we become involved in a contemporary romance tale full of love, heartache, loss, grief and devotion.Initially, I thought The Hypnotist’s Love Story was going to be a simple contemporary love story but I was surprised that this book offered something a little different.
As well as being narrated by Ellen, the book is also told from Saskia, the stalker of the story and Patrick’s ex girlfriend’s point of view.
Each novel I read makes me feel even more in awe of your talent and in-depth knowledge of what makes women tick.It's astonishing how complex and realistic your characters are.
Big time.This is probably my favourite novel of yours.
Your writing was so good and convincing, I feel like now I have less disdain for hypnotists.
:-)There's only one more novel of your back catalog to go through and then I'll have to wait for your next book to be published ...
sigh ...I'm sure it'll be worth the wait.This goes towards my Aussie Author Challenge 2018 on www.bookloverbookreviews.com
I liked the book but it was way too long. Nothing actually happens for much of the time and yet the author seems to be promising so much that never actually materialises. I think my imagination went to work as soon as the word stalker was used and I expected some thriller type action and blood. (Perhaps my imagination needs to calm down a bit.) On the other hand it is a good story with some interesting characters written in Liane Moriarty's very readable style. She has written several better books than this but I enjoyed it anyway.
Overall liked this book. It didn't blow me away but if your looking for a quick summer read, this would be a good pick!Mashup review coming soon!
This was an enjoyable read but I didn't love it as much as some of Liane Moriarty's other books (such as Big Little Lies).
It's an interesting story based on a psychotherapist called Ellen who falls in love with Patrick, a widow with an adorable little boy called Jack.
As always I really enjoyed Liane Moriarty's characters, including Ellen's patients and parent and was surprised that she was able to make me feel some sympathy for the stalker and understand her obsession with Patrick and Jack, who she had raised for several years after Patrick's wife died.
I quite enjoyed this lighter read of Moriarty's.
Although perhaps not as dramatic as The Husband's Secret or as emotional asWhat Alice Forgot, it was still an entertaining read that had me both laughing out loud and tearing up.
It came as a pleasant change to what I had read just before it, so I was glad for the less intense contents of this book.
Mind you as you were waiting for the story to escalate and it does, it was quite gripping as well.
I have not read a Liane Moriarty book yet that I've not enjoyed.
For some reason, I had no idea what this book was going to be about, but it was a fast read.
Ellen O'Farrell is a hypnotist who meets a man online and they start dating, only to find out that he has one serious problem...
A stalker!
The book alternates between Ellen and Saskia (The stalker), and so creates a dynamic story.
The writing is average, and the story flows along, while at times unbelievable, but entertaining none the less.not Moriarty's best book, but held my interest up til the very end, where the book ended so suddenly, it was as though I came to a screeching halt before hitting a brick wall.
The Hypnotist's Love Story is my third book by Moriarty, as I've already read What Alice Forgot and The Husband's Secret, and I do enjoy Moriarty's writing style a whole lot.
But this novel was more than just great writing - it was very entertaining, it was relatable and it was impossible to put down (but then again, previous 2 book of Moriarty I've read were as well).
She did not want him, but she wanted him to want her.”Moriarty knows and writes women like nobody else.
Man, now I sound like another character from this book - see, relatable!
Yay!
Liane Moriarty has redeemed herself in my eyes with this book.
I had loved The Husbands Secret but cringed reading What Alice Forgot, I couldn't even finish that one, so I was reluctant to try another.
I am glad I gave it a go.This book was funny, ridiculous in places and a very light hearted easy read.
I needed this book after a wave of heavy graphic crime fiction that I had been reading.
It's quirky, the storyline is a tad far-fetched but you kind of don't really care.
A very enjoyable read.
I preferred the other book, but this one was OK.What surprised me was how the author explored the life of the stalker, rather than just the people being stalked.
I liked how the author explored the reasons someone has a hard time letting go of a past relationship, and how that could drive them to hang on through stalking.
I think if he had handled the break up better, his ex-girlfriend may not have been so hurt she turned to stalking.I was surprised that I liked the story about the stalker better than the other two characters.I'm still not convinced that hypnotherapy is real.
"A sharp and funny romantic tale."- O, The Oprah Magazine Either I have lost my sense of humor or I read a different book.
This book leaves me wirh a teeter-totter of emotions about where I stand.
Although not my favorite book by the author, I was completely hooked by page 58.
"The Hypnotist's Love Story" was most compelling for the way it tackles relationships - both parent-child and couples.
I felt myself feeling sympathetic towards particular characters while wanting to shake others for their silly actions(Gah!
Not completely convinced that I liked that ending This book is bobbing up and down in the seas of 3-3.5 stars.
Perfectly blended story that is an entertaining read. It's not as twisty as her two newer novels but not disappointing. The author writes characters you feel and root for in this book. Lianne is a force to be reckoned with! I need to read the rest of her books!
I am addicted to Liane Moriarty's books.They take their time, drawing you in, with great characters, then things start taking a turn for the worst, and things keep getting worse and worse and then suddenly, someone comes through and things are all neatly tied up at the end with a neat little ribbon.Ellen O’Farrell is a hypnotherapist, helping clients with things such as mysterious aches, weight loss, smoking and relationships.
crazy.The irritating characters made this a more difficult read for me, and so Moriarty's slow setting of the scene was aggravating instead of endearing like it was with her other books.
She doesn't see herself as dangerous and the effect she is having on Patrick.Ellen's fascination with Saskia creeped me out a bit at times, I wouldn't have so collected/interested in my boyfriend's stalker.
(hide spoiler)]Despite not having gone as deep into some of the things as she should have (just my opinion), I really did enjoy reading this and seeing Patrick & Ellen's relationship evolve throughout the story.Would recommend, a good summer read that takes you away from the real world for a bit :).Happy reading!Pre-reading:Buddy read with Mason:)----Mason's review of the bookAnd another lovewly review here:Kaora's review ["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
My time with this novel was short, so I'll keep my review short.
Last year, I read The Husband's Secret for book club and enjoyed it - gave it four stars, but I don't know what happened with The Hypnotist's Love Story.
I was starting to get distracted and a few times I actually dozed off, so, at the 20% mark, I'm done with it.
Sorry, folks; I'm not a quitter but at the same time I have too many other books to read to warrant suffering through something I'm not enjoying.
I plan on reading Big Little Lies in the near future.
I really enjoyed this book; I thought it was well written and the characters were developed thoroughly, which is a mean feat for fiction writers in my opinion.
If I'm making it sound like a rom-com book, it really isn't..!I liked Ellen, was a little apprehensive about Patrick and both disturbed and intrigued by Saskia.
The ending I felt was a little anti climatic, but I was satisfied all the same.Having been suitably impressed by this authors debut, I was impressed to find this book matched the standard of her first.
A gifted writer, I will most definitely be working my way through this authors collection.
Not Moriarty's best book but still a fun read. I love Moriarty characters and the way she writes. Always a guaranteed feel good read!
DNF
The idea of someone's new boyfriend having a stalker seemed like it could be a rather interesting premise, so I was excited to read this book.
Perhaps this was the author's intent and the fact that the hypnotist's boyfriend had a stalker gave her a thrill, rather than a scare was more the point of the story.
So overall, I wouldn't go out of my way to recommend this book to anyone, but wouldn't tell you it was the worst thing I've ever read, either.
Moriarty manages to come up with the most intriguing and original plots.
This novel about the baggage we carry from one relationship to another was alternately witty and serious.
Ellen, the main character is a hypnotherapist, and I found this both intriguing and interesting.
Didn't know much about this vocation.
Also I really liked and felt sorry for the stalker although I hate the idea of stalking.
Yet this author makes the most unlikable characters likable somehow.
Anyway I always look forward to her novel as I know they will be different, somewhat deep in a witty matter and just fun to read.
While nothing extremely dramatic and gasp-worthy happens in this book (unlike some of Moriarty's other works), this was a fairly quick read, and one that I thoroughly enjoyed.
Instead of making the stalker seem like an evil, dangerous predator (although Patrick saw her this way, a "bunny boiler" a la Fatal Attraction), Moriarty was able to portray her as a real person who couldn't get over a relationship and let that warp her decisions until she was out of control--it became a compulsion.
If you've read Moriarty's other works, I think you'll like this one too.
They are out for dinner when he announces that he has a disturbing issue to discuss - 'OMG,' she thinks, 'he’s about to dump me'…Instead, he reveals that he has a stalker, a former partner who is obsessed with his every move.With her characteristic lively prose, Liane Moriarty introduces us to Ellen and her social circles, and gives us an honest portrait of her love interest Patrick.
But that is how the story progresses from that point onwards - with the PoV and narrative voice flipping at regular intervals between Ellen (3rd person) and Saskia (1st person).The relationship between Ellen and Patrick develops along fairly conventional lines, as their love grows and their lives become intertwined.
Jedna od karakteristika pisanja Liane Moriarty je dubinska karakterizacija likova, zbog čega je nama kao čitateljima omogućeno da njene likove upoznamo do srži, te da nam se nakon druženja s njima od njih teško odvojiti.Iako se ovdje radi o ljubavnoj priči, naglasak na samu tu ljubavnu priču nije toliko velik, već se Moriarty u ovom romanu više bavi onim, recimo to tako, popratnim pojavama ljubavne veze: povjerenjem, zajedničkim životom, raskidom, nemogućnosti da se prestanemo držati za spone već odavno gotove ljubavne veze, opsesijom, sumnjama...
Hipnoza i hipnoterapija su nešto sasvim drugo, kao što će vam Ellen u romanu predočiti.Nakon dvije pročitane knjige, mogu reći da volim kako piše Liane Moriarty i veselim se čitanju njenih daljnih uradaka.
