https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9409469-the-gray-wolf-throne
The best in the series so far! I won't write a proper review now because I have to read The Crimson Crown ASAP, perhaps I'll review them together! Just do yourself a favor and read Seven Realms guys!
❝She’d been born for this—and raised to it. She’d fought for it, and at times she’d thought she might die for it. She had a long history of tragedy and triumph behind her, and a lifetime of hard work ahead of her. It was time to get started.❞  Rating: ★ ★ ★ Though I still enjoyed The Gray Wolf Throne, I felt that it suffered the "middle book syndrome". The pacing of the story was consistently a bit slow throughout the whole book, and it definitely wasn't as great as The Exiled Queen. A lot hap
Rating: ★ ★ ★ ¾Though I still enjoyed The Gray Wolf Throne, I felt that it suffered the "middle book syndrome".
Well, nothing that was too exciting or worth talking about.The two things I did love within this installment was Raisa's character development and the increase in interaction between our two main characters, Han and Raisa.In the beginning of the series, Raisa was nothing special to me.
But come The Exiled Queen, Raisa really started to turn around.
Hopefully the finale will be much more exciting than The Gray Wolf Throne.
Re-read 2016Oh My God...why aren't more people reading these books?!Even better the second time around!
I guess it was just a fear that they wouldn't be as good as I remembered them that kept me from cracking 'em open sooner, so I'm happy to report (unlike some of my previous favorites) this series still stands up to the test of time.So, yeah.I WAS RIGHT BIOCHES!Original review: 2012This is my new favorite series.
Each book has progressively gotten better and better, and this time around I found myself walking around with the book in my hand waiting for an opportunity to start reading it again.
Very few of them are totally good or fully evil, either.
Pretty much the entire first quarter of this book feels like a race.
but I just want to express my love for not only the characters, not only the AMAZING world building, but the level of depth in the politics between the countries, clans, and wizard houses.
I love everything about him.Raisa She's grown up.
I just can't help but feel like there is a good guy in there somewhere.
After everything.For those of you racing through this series like me- expect a pleasant surprise of jam packed action and SERIOUS feels in this book.My Blog ~ Instagram ~ Twitter ~ Etsy

I won't mention Han's amazing self (almost) (my fingers are twichtching, trust me), otherwise I would never stop rambling and contrary to popular beliefs, I do sleep.Sometimes.BUT I AM SO SO PROUD OF BOTH OF THEM.
(except Han but that's only because he's not giving me any choice) (really) (that boy is wonderful, wonderful, WONDERFUL!)These books keep getting better and better, and really, I wonder why I still feel astonished at the FEELS FEST that was The Gray Wolf Throne with all the heartbreak, political schemes, and a slow-burn romance that's driving me INSANE in the best way possible.
(view spoiler)[I fell in love with Han in book 1, but really, even if it wasn't the case, I would not be able to resist now.
4.75⭐This series is too fucking fantastic. I can’t... this is just too much! I rarely RARELY ever read a book where I don’t come out the other end complaining about one thing or another. However much I love the book there’s always something that I’m let down by. This is, by no means, the case here. By far, it is not! Where do I begin? And why am I not giving this 5 starts? I loved everything! The plot. The world. The political intricacies. My adorable, incredible characters. EVERYTHING!
4.75⭐️This series is too fucking fantastic. I can’t... this is just too much! I rarely RARELY ever read a book where I don’t come out the other end complaining about one thing or another. However much I love the book there’s always something that I’m let down by. This is, by no means, the case here. By far, it is not! Where do I begin? And why am I not giving this 5 starts? I loved everything! The plot. The world. The political intricacies. My adorable, incredible characters. EVERYTHING!
First I have to confess I've been procrastinating this series because (A) the books are just getting huger, and (B) I don't want it to end!!
Who can know?" <-- My favourite kind of romance.But with all the politics, travel, and meetings featured....it did lack a bit of the SPARK the other two books had.
I kept waiting for something to happen, but it was like 10-pages to the end and I realised we weren't going to get a high stakes climax or cliffhanger.
LIKE CAN I MARRY THIS BOOK??
"Its unfortunate when so many people are trying to kill you that you can't sort them out." I love these books. I love this series. I'm 200000% not ready to finish this series and leave these characters behind. I'm semi torn as to how to rate this book. This book was crazy intense and a lot happened in it but also a lot didn't happen. There were so many twists and shocking revelations, but plot wise there wasn't AS much happening in this book as there was in book 2. Han and Raisa are phenomenal
I love these books.
I would love to see more of Amon in the next book because he seems to have really taken a back seat now.
I'm loving seeing more of Dancer (view spoiler)[(who we find out is LORD BAYAR'S SON and I kid you not I screamed for a solid hour over this revelation.
I've given up on this review because I just want to go back to reading the last book in this series.
So to sum up: basically everything in this book is going to shit since Raisa is now Queen and everyone wants to kill her and Han. Everyone is screwed.
Another that may be more like a 4.5/5 starsStarts off heartbreaking, but faded toward the end for me. I kept waiting for something bad to happen but I know it's coming next book! Still loving these characters. I just love Raisa so freAKING MUCH GUYS. Team Raisa forever.I mean everyone else is okay but RAISA.
"Nearly all my life I've taken what I wanted, when I wanted it, with no thought for the future, since I wasn't likely to have one. Do you know how hard this is for me? Do you?"  4.5 stars Dear lord...the feels, the feels! The goodness train keeps rolling. Lives are at stake. Love is at stake. There's danger, magic and intrigue aplenty!There are no dragons though. Ah well. I still don't know what to say about fantasy books or how to sell them. If you don't read fantasy, you're really missing ou
Love is at stake.
I still don't know what to say about fantasy books or how to sell them.
If you don't read fantasy, you're really missing out (boo to the real world all of the time!), especially when gems like Seven Realms come along.
This series explains many of the reasons why I like fantasy, especially when it's done right.In fact, I don't even know if I can find one thing to complain about.
I'll just chalk it up to the author laying groundwork for what was to come because when stuff started happening - hoo boy.
I know the last book is going to be awesome too, although I dread what might happen!
She is in the woods at one point in time and she is talking to a wolf and I just love it, if you have been reading the series you will understand this quote from the book:•••••••Raisa stared at her.
"Who are you?" she whispered."I am Hanalea ana'Maria, who shattered the world.""But..." As Raisa groped for words.
didn't :)I love Han and I was really sad when he was upset finding out who Raisa really was..
The entrance Raisa and Han made into the kingdom was so freaking classic!
It's definitely one of my favorite YA fantasy series at this point.
And at this point I know my ship isn't going to sail...
it's basically a ghost ship and I knowwww I need to focus on the rest of the story and give it up.
This book really is about Raisa -- SHE BECOMES SO BADASS and I love everything.I adore all of the characters so much but am a bit disappointed that so many scenes were summarized in a passive tone that made it hard to connect with the events.
and Amon was less visible than most secondary characters.
I really liked all of the character development since the start of this series..
I just love Han!
I love that the first half of this book, is all of our favorite characters trying to get Raisa back home safely.
I was a little surprised that nothing really bad happened when she showed up for her mother's memorial though.
I'm just surprised the Bayars haven't done more.
I kept thinking that she WOULDN'T get crowned by the end of the book and that we would have to wait until the 4th.
Can't wait to finish this series!
I have lost everything. Then he corrected himself. Every time I think I've lost everything, I find there's still something else to lose.  Here's the thing: I adore this series. I adore Han. I adore Raisa. I adore Amon and Dancer and Cat. I adore the subtle action and almost too perfect to be true romance. I adore the writing, the humor, the wit, and the friendships...but most of all, I adore how it makes me feel. As a reader, I've evolved in ways I never imagined possible. At one time, I would
At one time, I would read a book and just be excited about the smallest things.
But now, at this stage of my reading life, I have pinpointed those small things that made me smile a little larger, obsess a little harder, lose my breath in the most shocking way...and I have almost, in a weird way, became a professional of finding what makes me tick.
Yeah, sure, I'd love to read the perfect book at the perfect time with every little thing happening just as I'd want it to all the time.
What I can say for sure is that rarely has any author achieved such excellence in high fantasy for young adults.
Actually YA high fantasy is rare, and rich fantabulous world-building with three-dimentional fully-developed characters is even more rare.
So this book and the rest of the series are truly a gem in their kind.Cinda Chima is one heck of an author.
My passionate yearning for this book and my bleeding love for the story has made it so I cannot possibly find any wrongs in it.
If you like Game of Thrones or books (or Tv shows) of the kind, you should read this.
“I have lost everything, Han thought.
Then he corrected himself.
Every time I think I’ve lost everything, I find there’s still something else to lose.”HOLY SHIT THAT WAS BLOODY EPIC.
Let just say that this freaking book was everything I wanted in life and I couldn't be more happy about it!!
*THE FEELS MAN* Honestly, this has become one of my all time favorite series ever and I HIGHLY recommend that guys read it because it's absolutely FANTASTIC!❤️5/5★★★★★
The book fairies have decided to be good to me this year, maybe feeling sorry for my none existent Real Life, and have made it possible for me not only to be able to afford said treasures, but with the help of my good friends on GR I get to widen my horizons and have buddies to discuss them with in buddy reads sent from the Stars for our pleasure!!!
I think I plan on stalking Han, Raise, Dancer and Cat until the author decides to stop torturing us, or no one is left standing...
Edit I am almost finished with this series and I am heartbroken: ( I want more books!!!So some of the images coming to my head while reading. FRTC4.75* it is by far the best book so far! I did not like book 2 as much but this one really got down to business ( at some point I even had to fan myself)EditCrow reminds me of Feelings and moods going into this book...
I have definitely learned to like these books ^.^ On to the last one! RTC
This was absolutely fantastic.
I’ll keep this super short and relatively low spoilers because not many seem to have read these novels and I’m itching to get on to the last book already.
All of you reading this review I’m telling you right now read these books.
These books are so underrated, but my high fantasy heart loves them.
I’m a sucker for high fantasy and this was so satisfying.
She’s not without her faults of course, but she is absolutely brilliant.
I’m really getting tired of everyone assuming the worst of him.
Not AS good as the second book, but still phenomenal. If you love fantasy that features a lot of court politics this series is perfection.
The cliffhanger is resolved (for the most part) in the first chapter and by the second we get the answers to the last book's biggest mystery, who is the mysterious Crow?
(I was completely right!) I wished we'd gotten these answers in the end of the last book!
Han's rather unreasonable about the whole she lied to him thing.
Usually I hate slang and Han has moments where his street slang is too strong but overall it really adds to the world.
Not much Dancer this time but more Cat. And there's even a little of Raisa's solider friends.
I think I'm just going to copy and paste my review of The Exiled Queen and use it for The Gray Wolf too!
I'm glad I was able to start The Gray Wolf Throne so soon after reading The Exiled Queen.
The characters and the story line were fresh in my mind, and I believe that always makes for a better reading experience.
Needless to say, it doesn't always work out that way for me, but I feel a more instant connection with the characters when it does happen.
I love these characters, and I love this story.This series amazes me...
And one of the best books I've read all year!
I became so obsessed and enthralled with this book that i totally forgot to mark any quotes. I just inhaled this book then spent an entire day thinking about it, it was just such an amazing journey. This is one of the few books that had freaking hilarious chapter titles! This is an underappreciated quality, that added so much to the bookPicking over old BonesThe price of deceptionThe Games BeginAre just a few to spark your interest. And now a sneak peek at how my queen is doing: “Somehow, Raisa
I became so obsessed and enthralled with this book that i totally forgot to mark any quotes.
I just inhaled this book then spent an entire day thinking about it, it was just such an amazing journey.
This is one of the few books that had freaking hilarious chapter titles!
This is an underappreciated quality, that added so much to the bookPicking over old BonesThe price of deceptionThe Games BeginAre just a few to spark your interest.
She's had better days to be perfect frank, but i believe in her!
Moving on next book, letsss goooo!!!!
SPOILERS AHOY!  4 STARS”You are better than I expected.”“I am always better than people expect,” Han said. Oh come on, don’t tell me you didn’t think a little bit of that guy.I loved this book by the way! Love love love love love.LOVE.THERE’S NOTHING COHERENT IN THIS REVIEW. NOTHING.I’m just going to madly flap here and there, over the overwhelming levels of squee, like a fish out of water. One thing I noticed and liked about this is how each of the characters have grown in a pace that doesn’t
NOTHING.I’m just going to madly flap here and there, over the overwhelming levels of squee, like a fish out of water.
I like the way how Raisa still second guesses herself, how she can still be petty and cruel in her seventeen-year old mind.
”Byrne we need to do a better job of protecting the queen,” he said.
What price will both pay?Oh fine, I’m going to stop this pretend review and just squee relentlessly on all that Han-Raisa dialogue that was just…
“It makes you feel like it doesn’t matter what’s going on below.
It did end up going down the route it was destined to go down (as intoned in the second book, the Byrnes are not about to break the line any time soon, 1,000 years of history supports that).
But they both swallowed it because they had to.The mounting tension between Raisa and Han is just phenomenal.
But they're forced together anyway (in a more professional manner) so any ill will Han does have towards Raisa he's forced to swallow it back for the greater good.But Han's resilient.
I don't feel like I'm reading about someone so young but about someone even older than me for how she holds herself.
(5) Annamaya Dubai - she doesn't even get a single line and is now doomed to marry Amon WHO IS ALSO IN LOVE WITH RAISA (just stop it already!).(6) Melissa Hakkam - she counts even though she's basically only in the story so she can be portrayed as being flirty and silly and so not "what a strong woman should be".(7) Talia - yes, she's here and she's still great but her only substantial scene is when she gets severely injured defending Raisa.This whole issue really gets to me because while this series portrays a great friendship between Dancer and Han, why can't the author do the same for female friendships?
Another excellent installment in this impressively rich young adult fantasy series.
Listening to this series on audiobook this summer with my kids (10 and 13) has been a great experience.
The story is so detailed and rich, providing entertainment for all three of us.
I'm quite invested at this point and looking forward to the final book, The Crimson Crown.
Raisa is a strong and likeable heroine, and the former scoundrel Han continues to mature into an equally endearing male lead.My daughter's favourite is Amon, the honourable friend and guard, and she continues to hope for an ending that will satisfy her: "I know they have other stuff to worry about, but maybe they will all end up together in a polyamorous marriage."Can I just say how much I love that?
I'm so curious to see where this series is going. I have many thoughts! I need to finish this series soon so I can do an in-depth discussion. The characters are bothering me less and less as they grow as people, and each book has gotten better than the last. This is quickly becoming one of my favourites!
"I continue to believe in miracles. But I know miracles come for those who work really hard."Raisa Ana'MariannaPlot - So much anger, sadness, frustation in this book and yet I love it ♥♥♥Character - Crow succed to capture my heart just like he do with Hanalea. I wish Chima would do a books about him.World Building - I need to tell you again I'm loving Seven Realms!Writing Style - Amazing...simply amazing...Stars - 5 ★.
