https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/281512.He_Chose_the_Nails
Before reading this book, all I know is that Jesus died on the cross for me to be saved.
I just cannot understand how other people can truly understand the meaning of the cross and how it changed and still changing their lives.
But after reading this book, now I understand what the cross truly means.
And who am I that God gave His only Son for me to experience freedom, His love and His mercy.
Reading this book allowed me to see the little things that I don't see before, allowed me to stop and just feel God's love for me and you.
All of Lucado's books are spiritually enriching. I am a priest and Lcado's books always bring God close to me.
Would you do any less for something that you knew would far surpass your life?So, trace the path of these meaningful symbols in which Lucado writes, "God was never more sovereign than in the details of the death of his Son." It may change the way you look at those things every time you read those passages from here on out and help you marvel that much more at what transpired when Christ went to the cross.
When we think of Jesus' sacrifice, we think of the crucifixion...but, as Mr. Lucado illustrates here, there's much more to it than that! Between the salvation of the thief on the cross, to the temple curtain being torn in two, to even the sign placed above Jesus' head, this book brings the greatest story ever told to life in a new way.
This book was inspired by a Russian Christian who left a cross on Lucado's desk one Sunday with a note that said how his new faith in Jesus led him to retrieve the nails from an old abandoned Russian church and form those nails into a cross and around the cross he wove a crown of barbed wire -- which is image on the cover of the book.This book by Max Lucado is, for me, the best book he has ever written.
There is also a 15 part study guide in the back which is perfect for small group studies or solo study.Chapter 13 "I can turn your tragedy into triumph." After Jesus death, John's friend and future were buried.
Do you leave or linger?Very early Sunday morning they discovered he was gone, only strips of linen cloth lying there.
Amazing perspective gained thanks to this book! I am all about enriching my relationship with Christ and this book truly further opened my eyes as to what all took place at the Cross! Beautifully yet humorously written! GOD is the Author and Creator and nothing that took place at the Cross was by mere coincidence or random. Nothing Our GOD does is in vain, not the choosing of whom was sacrificed nor how HE was sacrificed. Highly recommended!Such an AMAZING and LOVING GOD we serve!
Max Lucado has such a unique way with words and describes in ways which make you think and actually wonder, why didn't I think of that!
This is truly one of my favorite of his books and I have enjoyed all that I have read.
Max Lucado writes very simply and clearly, but within his writing is deep understanding which he shares in a thought provoking and personal way.
This is a look at the crucifixion like no other I have read and I have learnt so much.
I've been a fan of Lucado's for years. He's one of the many who brought Jesus to life to me. He makes Christianity and spiritualism relatable in this day and age. This is about what Jesus did for each of us and it'll move you without being preachy. Highly recommend!My Rating: 5 stars
The book was very touching and thought evoking - I enjoyed it immensely and recommend it to anyone.
The book touches on various aspects of the Crucifixion and really shows how much God loves us to be willing to go through what he did.
Although the subject matter is very intense and, heart-rendering, it isn't a dark book by any stretch.
I was nervous about reading it due to the subject matter but Max didn't focus on the torturous acts more than absolutely necessary to make a point.
As a Christian, I never wanted to get to the point where I took Jesus for granted ... and yet, I started to tune out when we talk about the cross in church. This book completely shifted how I view the cross and Jesus' PERSONAL sacrifice for me and my sins. I sat down to read the first few chapters and had to pull out a pen and highlighter because there was so much to dig into. Incredibly blessed by this book and would absolutely recommend it, whether you are a Christian or Atheist or anywhere in between.
Fantastic book!!!
The message of the cross was never intended to be theology for your head, but doxology for your heart. Max writes in a way that helps you think about the cross in a way that brings you to your knees as you experience afresh the meaning of the cross.
Sencillamente excelente, no encuentro otra palabra que lo describa. El lenguaje es claro y directo y te hace ver lo que ocurrió en el calvario de otra perspectiva.
I can understand why Max Lucado is a popular Christian author. His spiritual insights are simply stated, easy to comprehend, introduced with relatable stories and leave the reader with a nugget for thought. Even though this book was a bit more simplistic than I prefer, I still found ideas worth pondering.
The answer may not be the one we want to hear, but it's the one we need and that's that He did it just for me and for you.From the back of the book:Linger on the hill of Calvary.Rub a finger on the timber and press the nail into your hand.Taste the tinge of cheap wine and feel the scrape of a thorn on your brow.Touch the velvet dirt, moist with the blood of God.Allow the tools of torture to tell their story.Listen as they tell you what God did to win your heart.I've read several of Max Lucado's books in the past.
This book is just what is needed to understand from a fresh perspective, the gift of God's Grace, Jesus Christ's Sacrifice & the entire gift of Salvation. If, after reading this book, you are not assured of God's love for you, then at least when you re-read the accounts in The Gospels, you'll have pause & cause to wonder. Max Lucado has a God given talent for teaching the Gospel in such a way that 20th & 21st century citizens can be guided to God in a language they understand.
Very worth it.. I love the way Max explains everything!
This might be one of my most favorite Christian books i've read.Max Lucado has become one of my favorite Christian authors, he is funny and a great story teller, he also writes in a way that really speaks to the heart and soul.
He Chose the Nails was very thoughtfully written.You may want to keep your journal and a pen near you as you read this book, there are quotes and beautiful poetry you may want to jot down, as well as any thoughts or feelings his writing brings up in you.
Max Lucado tiene esa habilidad de llevarte hasta lo más alto y dejarte caer en un abismo de realidad que pocos logran, y que te hace pensar y repensar los relatos bíblicos.Me gusta mucho descubrir cómo es que cada palabra escrita en la Biblia (y cada "evento" y "microevento") fue puesta para dar un sentido específico y mucho más amplio del que comunmente pensamos.Una vez más queda demostrado que la Biblia es más profunda que extensa.
I am not a big fan of Lucado, so I will save space so that others may gush about his saccharine sweet salvation-y snippets.
i'm getting magnetized by the cross. it's irresistible!
I absolutely loved this book. I will be purchasing it for my library. I highly recommend it to all who want to know our Saviour more.
One of my favorite authors!
Why have You chosen me out of million Your child to be? Engkau mengambil tempat terhina untuk lahir dan mengambil cara yang paling hina untuk mati, demi kita....
the first book i read from max. brought me to tears and on my knees. great book.
A lady from Bible Study loaned me this book.
I wanted to read it but you know how sometimes they sit there for a while because there are a ton of books you want to read and you kind of just go down the list?
God saved this book though.
I read this book in like three days.
Like a marriage, you loved him when you said "I do," but you love him more today than you did on that wedding day years ago.
I would love to do the study and it is actually included in the back of this book.
I will thank that lady and return her book safely!
This was my first foray into the books of Max Lucado.
While I love the book and the way he presented the various gifts of the cross, which I had not of thought of in this way before, I was less impressed with the study guide that goes along with this book.
The study guide in the back of the book differs from the one used with his video study.
When most of the class doesn't buy the book, which is fine for the video study, I think he needs to revamp the study guide portion of this book.
I love how Max Lucado brings God's love and the gift of His son to you in an easily understandable and emotional way.
The stories and examples he uses will touch your heart...they will grab your attention and make you sit up and listen closely.This book really makes you think about Christ's sacrifice for each of us and the fact that He "chose the nails." And while Christ chose the nails, it's up to us to choose.
His ultimate expression of love allows us the ability to accept this amazing gift of grace and to choose Him as Lord and Savior.
Will you choose God?
Very well written book. I started reading this book on Easter Sunday. I was at home sick unable to attend church and quite frankly feeling sorry for myself. This book reminded me of what Christ did and He not only died for the world but each of us personally. The book brought to life the different parts of the death and resurrection things like the crown of thorns, the prisoners etc. and why they were important and what they represented. This book helped remind me that Jesus is aware of me and loves me.
This book was really good. There were some things I disagreed with, mainly because I believe some different things about the atonement, then what he said, but Max Lucado's writing is beautiful, and there was a lot of things I did agree with. This book was very eye-opening. It helped me see the Atonement and my savior Jesus Christ in new ways. I loved it. He had great personal stories, analogies, and examples. And he explained it perfectly. It was so good, and so testimony building.
