https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/251882.Our_Hearts_Were_Young_and_Gay
A funny story: I'm sitting in the dentist chair with my mouth filled with goo, waiting for the flouride treatment to do its magic.
In my hand is Our Hearts Were Young and Gay. I had found this old title on my late mother's bookshelf, where it had sat dusty and neglected for years.
But I can't get a breath because of the pasty horseshoe glop, so I start to shake and quiver a bit while gasping because I'm laughing so hard at the antics of the two heroines in the book.
Tears are running down my face and I'm shaking and trying to get a breath.
"Our hearts were young and gay and we were leaving a part of them forever in Paris." Sigh....sniff, sniff....I wish I could have seen England and France in the 1920s.
A wonderful, absolutely charming book! The writing is witty, light, and funny, and the adventures make for delightful reading. It creates such a wonderful picture of 1920s European travel, but is also a deliciously high-spirited and cheery tale--wonderful!
From the get-go I was in love, perhaps because I was about the age of Cornelia and Emily, and I wanted to go to Europe like they did.Eventually I did go, even visiting a few of the same places (St. Valery en Caux, the Cluny Museum) and I was reminded of their adventures - very tame by today's standards but still funny.Skinner's writing is a bit wordy and passe compared to how it might be written today, and I had to go to my French-English dictionary more than once.
you know, i never understood what charm was until i read this book. charm clearly has an innocence lacking in our times.marvelous read. incredibly funny. great sharp wit and gentle, self-deprecating humor ("We were poisonously young"). for all the books that i've read from this time, i've never run across the feeling this one imparts--it makes me nostalgic for a time i never experienced.highly recommended.
Without a doubt this is my favorite book ever. I seldom reread books but I've read this one at least 4 or 5 times and I laugh until I cry each time. I buy copies at used book sales and give them to my friends.
Funny and delightful. Many laugh out loud moments, especially in the early part of the adventure.
But before I begin to wax too poetic and scare off some of my more light-hearted friends, allow me to point out that this book is hilarious, and loveable, and huggable, and if you do not have a bellyache from suppressed laughter by the time you've finished- I pity thee.
And yet, I would still classify this book as 'innocent and clean,' soo....After finishing this book, it is likely you will wish you could time-travel and tour the continent in the 1920s, if we're still talking about downsides.
Cornelia Otis Skinner, an American actress, writer and screenwriter co-wrote Our Hearts were Young and Gay with her good friend Emily Kimbrough, a memoir about their travels in Europe in the 1920’s.
It is difficult to see where Kimbrough’s collaboration is exactly as the book is written in Skinner’s first person narrative.
None of that seems important however as the book is full of charm and humour, and both women come across quite hilariously full of adorably lovable quirks and eccentricities.Having finished college Cornelia and Emily embark on a European tour which they have planned for some time.
Full review: https://heavenali.wordpress.com/2015/...
Actress Cornelia Otis Skinner and her friend Emily of Muncie, Indiana embark on a European adventure in the early twentieth century.
Before they get out of the St. Lawrence River, the boat suffers a wee shipwreck.
The girls' humorous adventures make readers laugh.
They cover up a case of measles with the assistance of a doctor so as to avoid quarantine.
The tale shows the life of the upper class at that time and place.
While travel changed in intervening years, and this type of humorous memoir lacks the popularity it enjoyed at the time it was written, it still amuses.
A lighthearted trip to Europe told by a true storyteller with a delightful sense of the absurd. In addition, their lunch with H.G. Wells casts a whole new light on what I'd have thought a much more austere personage. Perfect for light reading.
I first read OUR HEARTS WERE YOUNG AND GAY when i was in a convent in Vermont. I was 14 or 15. The pleasure which I find in it then has not diminished. it's like visiting with old friends. There are scenes which are hilarious and have withstood the test of time. A tuly enjoyable read for all ages.
I read this years ago as a teenager at my mother's recommendation. It's such a hoot and such a good picture of a bygone era, and Cornelia Otis Skinner has such a flair for the idiosyncratic, as evidenced in her many colorful monologues. Great fun.
Delightful. Hadn't read this in years and years and it still makes me laugh. The reader was excellent.
Cornelia Otis Skinner is a damn funny woman.This book had me rolling on the floor laughing. She's as good as Thurber...
I really enjoyed this. I like biographies. This wasn't one of my favourites, but I did like it.
Delightful. Funny, charming, and well written. This story of two young women on their first trip abroad to Paris in the 1920s is everything I'd hoped for. Not available in a real eBook, I was only able to read this in a scanned library copy. Took a lot of cleanup to make it readable, frankly, but it was absolutely worth it. The scene where Cornelia is being spirited off the cruise ship with the measles is a classic, but there's a delight at every turn. Recommended.
This book never fails to make me laugh. And I love the vivid picture of Europe in the 1920s.
Simply delightful.
Made me long for the days when movies were considered risque if someone said the word "pregnant" or showed too much shoulder. So good!!
In 1942, they regaled the world with stories from this prolonged visit by collaborating to write memoir/travelogue Our Hearts Were Young and Gay.I very much enjoyed the authors’ colorful descriptions and humorous observations.
I loved that the day before Cornelia and Emily left Paris, they visited their favorite places; and what they chose was sweet.
The book ends with the statement that both authors have been back to Europe since, but this was the trip when “Our hearts were young and gay and we were leaving a part of them forever in Paris.”
Funny wacky lighthearted travel memoir about the zany adventures of two college girls as they take a ship to London and then go to France one summer.
I wanted this to be less tame - the beginning had a lot of promise - and at the same time less wacky, as it stretched credulity.
It was two upper class-ish girls traveling somewhat independently from the one girl's family (who were also in Europe at the same time as them), wearing the wrong clothes and buying matching fur coats and adopting small dogs.
Our Hearts Were Young and Gay: An Unforgettable Comic Chronicle of Innocents Abroad in the 1920's by Cornelia Otis Skinner and Emily Kimbrough. (Dodd Mead 1942)(914). This is one of my mother's favorite books. It's a memoir of the Roarin' Twenties: two young wannabe flappers fresh out of college take the “Grand Tour” of Europe. My rating: 7/10, finished 1985.
This book means so much to me: it's an intro to European travel, a window onto another world, a memoir of adolescent girlhood and a comic tour de force. The movie adaptation is horrid and ruins the bubble of mirth that fills this book. I've read this more times than I can count since age 13.
One of my all-time favorite books. I first read this as a young teenager and still reread it and laugh out loud. It's a bit like traveling with some Lowells!
A cute novel about two sisters who go taveling abroad together. Adorable and set in a wonderful time period!:)
Loved this book! Two best friends and their big trip through Europe- so funny.
It's like a biography in stand-up comedy form. Dig the visit with H.G. Wells!
The two ladies, given the extremes of their innocence I will refer to them as girls, regal us with what seem like non-stop misadventures and emotional highs.The time may be the Roaring 20's but these ladies could never be confused with the flapper set, the lost generation or be found hanging out at midnight parties with Scott and Zelda.
The girls manage some serious activities, but nothing stops the flow of fun and regular unplanned humorous mishaps.Cornelia would have you believe that she is the more cultured of the two while Emily is something of a less manipulative Lorelei Lee. Yet it is Emily who accidentally walks in on the naked man, flirts with the married man in uniform (the ship's band leader), captures the attentions of H.
I FINALLY got around to finishing this...I both read and listened to this.
The bonus of reading the book are the illustrations throughout, while the bonus of listening is hearing the narrator's perfect inflection and French.
FYI, this TRUE story takes place during a summer in the 1920s.
These WHITE ladies definitely lived a privileged life, and they weren't used to seeing people of color and had no idea about homosexuality.
I don't think there was any racism or homophobia expressed by the ladies but I can see why someone might take that away.
