https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6325302
Σήμερα θα το θεωρούσαμε εθνικιστικό . Η αλήθεια όμως είναι πως η γοητεία του μαγεύει ακόμα
Main character of the book is captain Tellos Agras (Καπετάνιος Τέλλος Άγρας ή Τέλλος Αγαπηνός) and how his efforts and death fuelled passion into the men following him, resulting into killing his assassins and drawing both Turks and Bulgarians out of the swamps and surrounding area.The book is extremely long and can be tiring, but it's one amazing read.
I wouldn't recommend it to kids though, since it contains quite a lot of violence and some graphic scenes, not meant for young audiences.
Πριν απο αυτό είχα διαβάσει τον Τρελαντώνη και τον Μαγκα και το Παραμύθι χωρίς όνομα, τα οποία θυμάμαι ότι μου άρεσαν. Σε αυτό το βιβλίο γύριζα με βαριά καρδιά και εξαντλητική βαρεμάρα κάθε σελίδα, δεν θυμάμαι καν αν το τελείωσα. Μάλλον όχι.
The prime directive of the school was to make us patriots; a thing counting twice for someone like me who actually lives very close to where all the events of the book took place about a century ago.Basically, this is biased historical fiction and regards the Balkan wars of the early 20th century.
So I guess for a nation which lackes good war tales, this is actually a very nice specimen; especially for the time it was written.
In this way it is like the Greek version of the Lord of the Rings, where a children’s book like the Hobbit later on gets fused with far more epic and important events.
this is my favorite book so far. it refers to the macedonian war back in early 90sthe author manages to give a tremendous rythm to the story which keeps the reader awake all time.i have to say that due to its historical backround may not fit to non-greek readers' apreciation but i would definetly recommend it to all my friends
ένα αριστούργημα της ελληνικής λογοτεχνίας.-
Εξαιρετικό έργο.Θα τολμούσα να πω ένα καλό ξεκίνημα για όποιον θέλει να εντρυφήσει στην ιστορία των Βαλκανικών πολέμων.
Τι υπέροχο βιβλίο και τι καταπληκτική συγγραφέας!!
υπέροχο, κλασσικό, αξεπέραστο
