https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16762.The_Case_of_the_Stuttering_Bishop
A bishop came to Perry Mason for a consultation.
Perry Mason now had several problems.
Mason was completely hooked on the mystery.Please to not read the description of the book as for some unknown reason it talks about the middle part of the book without bothering to explain the beginning.
I usually give 4 stars to a Perry Mason mystery, but this time I rated it lower.
The reason for this: I was able to figure out the identity of the villain way before Mason which almost never happens with these mysteries being very complicated.
This is an early entry from the Perry Mason series, first published in 1936, when Perry could still drive anywhere in Los Angeles and get there in about twenty minutes and when one still had no problems finding a cab in L.A.A stuttering bishop from Australia appears in Perry's office one afternoon, hinting at an injustice that began twenty-two years earlier when a millionaire, angry because his son had married against his wishes, conspires to make the son's new bride a fugitive from justice, fleeing from a trumped-up manslaughter charge.
Perry also wants Paul to follow everyone who contacts the bishop.
It has all the usual action / red-herrings and startling outcome at the end, and yet it did not leave a lasting impression.Possibly, because I recently re-read 2 of my favourite Mason-books - The Case of the Lucky Loser & The Case of the Angry Mourner - and it seems less intriguing in comparison.
Here he is polite and almost "friendly", giving the case against Mason's client the benefit of the doubt and it is not even him who represents the prosecution in the trial.
A bishop visits Perry Mason to ask for his advice about a situation that happened many years ago.
Her father-in-law wants her child in order to make her the heir of his wealth.The Bishop wants to know if the woman still is in any danger of having charges pressed against her after all these years.
This starts an investigation by Perry Mason that leads to all sorts of mysteries and wheels within wheels that must all be resolved before arriving at who is the real grand daughter.At times I found the plot a little convoluted because a murder happens and the one person who looks guilty is the only person without a motive.
THE CASE OF THE STUTTERING BISHOP.
It’s all about money, of course, and an old man finding his granddaughter after years of not knowing where she lived or what she looked like.
Of course, all that money doesn’t do anyone any good as long as grandpa is still alive, so… Mason is drawn into the case by the appearance of a bishop from Australia who knew of the fake granddaughter and wanted to alert everyone to her existence.
What started Mason off on the wrong foot, however, was the fact that the bishop stuttered.
Perhaps I like when Perry gets a bit meta towards the end: Then he said, "Della, it's so damned wild that it doesn't sound logical, but it's absolutely the only thing which will explain the facts in this case, and, when you stop to think of it, it's so absolutely plain and open that the great wonder is we didn't realize it before."This quote could summarize almost every Perry Mason book out there, and I know for a fact he says similar things in many of the other stories.
A lot has been said about it, especially its written style.
It could only have come from an American in those times, and I admire Stanley Gardner's courage in style.
In fact, it is like reading a TV episode of the same genre (though I guess this was intended in this case).
It will keep you guessing a lot, I honestly did not figure it out on my own.
People do not realize that this was written at a time when the mode of execution in America was the Gallows.
It is bold in style, creative and enjoyable.Some compare it to the TV , Perry Mason, episodes.
I read a lot of Perry Mason books back in the 60s. Now I'm going through the whole series by taking them in chronological order and reading one every so often. I usually don't review each one because they are all 4 star mysteries, highly readable, entertaining etc. This time I am writing a review to pat myself on the back and say that this is the first time I correctly identified the shooter early on in the book.
Confusing. But redeemed by the extensive use of ridiculous slang - old timey but not cool enough to reenter current vernacular.
Bishop William Mallory, on vacation/sabbatical in LA from Sydney, Australia, arrives at to Perry Mason's office to retain the lawyer under curious conditions.
Twenty-two years ago, Mallory says, a young woman in this state was involved in a fatal car crash immediately after her wedding; although there was no clear evidence that she was at fault, her rich father-in-law, who loathed her, bribed the local authorities to level a charge of manslaughter at her.
After our initial suspension of disbelief, everything works just fine.Even the stuttering of Bishop Mallory is adequately explained by book's end.A warning to folk who've not read a Perry Mason novel before -- two warnings, really.
I love one-sit crime stories, but there aren't many out there.Plot=1: If you're a fan of world literature and contradictions/feuds/trials within, you're certainly familiar with The Tichnor Case of Victorian England in which an imposter returns from Autralia to claim a fortune.
And Della is the standout, making Perry and Paul seem like total fools often, and that's unusual for this genre, and a very nice change..
But in book form, movies, and TV shows, they naturally became well-known, and liked, characters, even though Paul is a total jerk.Atmosphere=2: How can one NOT nail Los Angeles and San Francisco?
Nonetheless, I still love the general setting: the characters of Perry, Della, Paul, Lt. Tragg, and Hamilton Berger.
It is superb!The story begins when Anglican Bishop Mallory from Australia calls on Perry Mason.
Briefly, back then in LA, the elder son of a wealthy man named Renwold Brownley impetuously married a woman "beneath him" named Julia.
Bishop Mallory, who was coming to the US anyway, is convinced the young woman living with Brownley is an imposter.
The bishop mysteriously drops from sight, old man Brownley is murdered, Julia is arrested, and the race is on to find out what really happened.
his is an early entry from the Perry Mason series, first published in 1936, when Perry could still drive anywhere in Los Angeles and get there in about twenty minutes and when one still had no problems finding a cab in L.A.A stuttering bishop from Australia appears in Perry's office one afternoon, hinting at an injustice that began twenty-two years earlier when a millionaire, angry because his son had married against his wishes, conspires to make the son's new bride a fugitive from justice, fleeing from a trumped-up manslaughter charge.
Perry also wants Paul to follow everyone who contacts the bishop.
This starts a mystery which Perry cannot resist.
Their identities and motive for murder Perry has to solve on his own (although we get the actual solution from Della) with no help from his tight lipped client.
You get classic Paul Drake, Perry Mason and Della Street, staying up all hours to find something on these people.
The only running jokes that you will recognize from other novels are the driving abilities of Paul versus Perry, and Della on feminine intuition and skill.
I forgot a couple bits of the book and got a bit lost as the book wound up.I just had the exact same trouble with the Colin Dexter novel i read before this, 'The Riddle of the Third Mile'.
Both are similar in many ways, except, I feel, Dexter rather cheated in the end by a massive kill off of characters that didn't make much sense.
This Perry Mason mystery ends with a rather complicated conclusion due to Gardner not being a killing machine towards the final bow.Bottom line: I recommend this book.
The titular stuttering Australian bishop. A pair of erstwhile long-lost granddaughters to a dubiously deceased millionaire, and their scheming respective mothers to boot. Not to mention various detectives (house dicks - now there's a profession that has sadly disappeared) and morally compromised lawyers scuttling about the periphery. It's a good thing Perry Mason can keep all this straight, because heaven knows, he's the only one who can.As Paul Drake, plopping himself in a chair, so eloquently puts it, "I," he announced, "will be damned."
Well if it wasn't for the fact that this is a Perry Mason, I probably would have given it 1 star. It also proves the point that you can't always say 'the book is better than the movie' because I've seen this TV show and it is far better than the book. Way too confusing...even the title is misleading.
I do enjoy the Perry Mason Mysteries, they are entertaining and easy to read. However, you do need your wits about you to follow the plot twists and devices Gardner uses, especially the legal side of things. In this Mason is approached by a man claiming to be a Bishop who tells him he needs to get involved in a case of fraud which turns into something worse.
3.5 stars. I love Perry's cross-exams in the court. They always get my heart pumping and in this book, it was no different. I just love how he makes fools of both the prosecutor and his witnesses. The judge hiding a smile was a bonus! Half a star down for some really stupid decisions Perry made in the first half of the book, though. Dude!
Made for TV. Really. Even though TV didn't exist when it was written, the plot is perfect for a TV episode. The writing is a bit convoluted, so I'm not likely to read another, but at least now I've read one.
A good confusing mystery. I really liked the equation between Mason and Drake in this one. It is more equal, more friendly than the later books. Mr Gardner made Drake more of a side-kick, subordinate to Mason, in the later works... I like this better in that respect.
Second book I've read of Perry Mason and have fallen in love with it. With this lawyer thing, I somehow feel like it's great to read about some courtroom action although so far, his culprits are very much hard to guess..
A delightful & fascinating murder mystery. The tough to follow plot has to be read carefully because of too many characters. The vocal exchange between Perry Mason & his detective Paul Drake is the spotlight of this 1936 written suspense thriller. COMPLEX CASE.
I've read this before, but for the life of me couldn't remember the plot. It is inventive and interesting, and I love the little differences between 1930s and modern descriptions.
A new case walks into renowned criminal lawyer, Perry Mason's office in the form of Bishop Mallory- who stutters.
From there begins the chase into a case that takes on a new challenge with every turn it takes and puts Mason in the cross hairs where he's putting his very career on line.So, I know that the summary could be about any Perry Mason novel and it would fit, but that's exactly the point I want to make.They all follow a pattern.
I'm one of the biggest fans of the Perry Mason series despite their overt sexism and obvious theatrics.I love Mason and his sharp mind and his cool image.
This plot is unusually complicated, somehow the characters did not especially engage me.Boy, does Mason break the rules.
Mason even ends up in a fist fight (not an especially lawyerly thing to do, though he is justified).The legal terms in this story are unusually complicated for those unfamiliar with the field (and in some cases even for me, though I have a law degree).
Otherwise, though, Burger treats Mason with unusual civility, which I gather will vanish somewhat later in the series.This one is fine for people who enjoy the series, but I would not recommend it to someone just looking for a good mystery.
The Case of the Studdering Bishop is my first Perry Mason novel.
I am old enough that I remember watching Perry Mason on TV, old 4x3 black and white TV.
I think the characters had evolved considerably in the 21 years since it aired.
More characters that one can shake a stick at.
I am not sure what side Erle Stanley Gardner is on, but since the argument was in the story, I subject he feels women are more talented than they are normally given credit.
It was well worth the read, but I am not sure I would tackle another.
Meh. I guess I am not a true Perry Mason fan. I found the plot very diluted. So many little threads that were completely uninteresting in themselves. . . Just meh. It certainly wasn't the worst book I have read.
A below-average attempt by ES Gardner. Not even 2 pages of court-room performance and another of those annoying cases solved by Mason in one long monologue.Still, worth a read as it moves along quite rapidly.
Perry Mason no seu melhor.Romance policial em que o herói é o advogado assistido pela fiel secretária, Della e seus detectives.
