https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/835879.With_Lawrence_in_Arabia
Lowell Thomas was obviously awe-struck by the shy and slender young Englishman, T.E. Lawrence, dressed as an Arab prince but if his book is tainted with hero-worship there is no individual in modern times more deserving of it.
The exploits of Lawrence in uniting the many contentious Bedouin tribes of Arabia into a cohesive fighting force to overthrow the rule of the Turkish Ottoman Empire are staggering to say the least.
Thomas captures the story of Lawrence's exploits in such a way that they read like a great adventure story.
Thomas' grasp of ancient and medieval history is suspect.
His description of modern Arabs often displays the prejudices of his era.
That said, he offers some very good first hand reporting on Lawrence and interesting descriptions of key battles in the asymetric and conventional sides of the Middle Eastern campaign.
He also does some justice to Arab culture.
Unlike most of the faculty I encountered in my Near Eastern studies program, I am not of the opinion that you have to throw out every pre-1979 work on the Middle East/Islamic world just b/c stereotypes existed then which are impolitic now.
Should that be the case none of us would every read history.
This was written by Thomas in his characteristic sensationalist style intended for consumption by the hysterical masses.
This book is not high on integrity or staying true to facts.
It is written in an almost Gonzo style of journalism, running through the quick and dirty highlights of these exhilarating events.
Besides the fact that this book is not the academic authority on TE Lawrence and his escapades in the Middle East, it is an entertaining romp through a very exciting episode in history.
I recommend it on that basis alone, as it stands unique amongst histories which can all too often come across in a dry and monotonous tone.
Нынешняя история таких людей отчего-то не выдвигает — так что дело, видимо, в эпохе, когда еще можно было играть в «великие географические открытия», хоть и сильно запоздало.
Теперь это уже как-то затруднительно, да и крови требует, видимо, больше.Хотя качество «военной журналистики» Лоуэлла Томаса таково, что «война в стране 1001 ночи» выглядит вполне «потешной» и скорее напоминает кинофильм «Большая прогулка».
А может, англичане на Ближнем Востоке и впрямь воевали веселей — что, впрочем, крови не отменяет, хотя из пропагандистских соображений зверства немцев/турок Томасом выпячиваются, а про англичан/арабов говорится как-то вскользь.
Сейчас, повторюсь, видимо больше не делают таких людей, которые всю свою судьбу превращают в литературный сюжет.
In this 1967 edition, Lowell Thomas added forty pages of brief biographical material concerning some of the men who served with Colonel T.
He focused primarily on their career highlights and anything they had personally to say about Lawrence.In his added forward, Thomas points out that the 1963 David Lean film "Lawrence of Arabia," although a cinematographic marvel, was a historical disaster and its rewrite and distortion of history to portray Lawrence was a "brutal travesty."Thomas writes from personal experience having served with Colonel Lawrence.
This book had been my briefcase read for a while.
Thomas wrote this before Lawrence's Revolt in the Desert and Seven Pillars of Wisdom.
Thomas also created one of the first slide shows which he delivered to audiences around the world.
It was this traveling slide show that made Lawrence famous and Thomas very rich.While the language Thomas reads makes it an easy read, it is a somewhat cartoonish in its characterizations.
The description of post-war Lawrence seemed more honest than the description of Lawrence of the big screen.The other weakness of the book is that the timeline is not strong.I very much like this edition.
This is fine, I suppose, since Thomas gives a lot of detail about Arabia and the Bedouins, and it reflects Lawrence's skill at "hiding behind the shereefs" but the problem I have is that after reading this book, it is clear that Lawrence was as enigmatic to Thomas (who was "With Lawrence in Arabia") as he continues to be to me.
But I suppose this was a much faster read than trying to deal with "The Seven Pillars of Wisdom" and like I said, once Thomas begins to look a little bit more at Lawrence's feelings of failure after the war, the book gets a lot more interesting.
He was there, reporting on the Arab campaign, an imbedded reporter before the phrase came into use.
Lawrence cut a unique swath of success in a war that seemed to create nothing but disaster for most commanders and their troops.
His photographs and reports were a sensation and helped propel Lawrence into the public arena.
This book, and Lawrence's own account of the Arab campaign in his book The Seven Pillars of Wisdom should be companions on the shelf for anybody who would seek to understand what has transpired in the Near East during the past hundred years.
Chapter 31 - The Secret of Lawrence's Success"...What was the secret of Lawrence's success, and how could a Christian and European gain such influence over fanatical Mohammedans? What reward did Lawrence receive? Would he write his own story? Where was he then, how did he earn a living, and what about his future? Would he ever marry? Was he a normal human being and did he have a sense of humor?"
I picked this book up at a rummage sale years ago and it's finally resurfaced on a long lost bookshelf. I remember reading it way before the turmoil of current day in the middle east. Back then I dog-earred a page where Lawrence said: 'The handling of Arabs might be termed an art, not a science, with many exceptions and no obvious rules ... Your success will be in proportion to your mental effort.' That was in 1924!! Not much has changed.
A well-written book, with a lot of good historical information (if you take it with a grain of salt).
Lawrence complained that Thomas exaggerated his achievements for the purposes of spectacle, although I'm not sure which of Thomas' stories he didn't like.
But this provides an interesting first-person perspective of the Arab Revolt by an outsider.One major issue is the time in which it was written.
It was still acceptable to make stereotypical, vaguely racist comments, about other cultures, and there's a lot of that in here.
There's enough that it makes you question some of his insights into the Arab Revolt.


This book sucked. I stuck with it because I just lived where he worked his magic, but the book was more of an admiring report than a narrative of what happened. It's the only time in my life that I can say the movie was better than the book, and you know how slow and long the movie is? ... Well, try reading the book. Or rather, don't.
I read this when the film Lawrence of Arabia first came out. Both inspired me to study T.E. Lawrence's life and then this lead to my reading the tracts, memoirs, and stories of other historical and contemporary guerrilla fighters.
I remember listening to Thomas' final newscast. I loved him on the radio; I have not loved him in print. This was the second book I've read by Thomas and both were disappointing. Too much superfluous material, in my opinion.
Lawrence is large, unassuming contributor to ww1 and the fall of the Ottoman empire. The conception of a common goal, and the push towards it is memorable. It is unlikely a feat like this will ever be repeated.
A superb story of the Arab Revolt led by Major T.E. Lawrence, as witnessed by correspondent Lowell Thomas. Numerous hand-drawn portraits and photographs convey the character of the war in the Middle East, and the personalities of the participants.
My copy of this book is actually the 1967 copy. It was my dad's. =)
Sometimes I grow weary of fiction..... this historical account of WWI in the Middle East is history that reads like fiction. FANTASTIC book.
Lowell Thomas was an insightful writer. I enjoyed his view of the young Lawrence and also his interest in the Arabian people.
I found a copy of the 1967 edition with the new forward by the author discussing the David Lean film starring Peter O'Toole.
stamped
I found a 1st edition of this book (Sweet) hope the book show a little insight into the mind of the not only the T.E. but also the author.
This title but not by this author.
Good introduction to T. E. Lawrence.
Maybe 2 1/2 stars -- first third was well written and interesting. Last half was more a travelogue with too many details that have little meaning for me.
