https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/486324.Joshua
What if Jesus came back today?
A simple carpenter moves to the outskirts of a small town named Auburn, mystifying the locals with his beautiful wood carvings and astute insights into religion.
Joshua lives a happy life, making toys for children and fixing furniture for the elderly.
But soon Joshua's views on religion and the church bring trouble with the established clergy in town.
They don't like the things he says about the way their churches are operated.
This book is a stunning commentary on the church and its failure to live the Gospel.
Girzone captures the spirit of Jesus perfectly, borrowing heavily on Biblical examples.
What would you do if Jesus was living up the street from you?
A simple man, doing God's will, who is as radical today as he was with the Apostle's?
Welcome to the journey of a lifetime, where you are likely to question your understanding of God and Jesus Christ.
I first encountered this book in high school, and just re-read it to be in solidarity with my freshmen who have this for summer reading.
Some of the lessons I gained were the same, but many were different.
I highly recommend that you take this spiritual journey, to learn more about God and more about yourself.
I love this book ! I've read it a couple of times because it just made feel good.this one well always be on my book shelf to be read again.
This book suffers from the same syndrome that I believe ails most Christian fiction: a fantastic concept with weak execution.
Moreover, the characters' words are all so stiff and formal that interactions cannot seem natural for the reader.
As stated, I think the concept is outstanding.
How would we interact with Jesus if He returned today?
Actually, I think I would rather have had a more limited narrator who didn't go into Joshua's thoughts.
Not only did it seem a bit presumptuous (how can we know the mind of Jesus?), but it also took away the mystery from the reader.
I have just finished this book for the third time and still love this story as I did from the very first perusal.
Father Girzone retells the story of Christ through Joshua, a young man who moves into a small town in New York State.
Joshua lives a simple life, making friends easily and winning the hearts of the neighborhood children.
Joshua, fortunately, makes himself easily accessible and becomes very popular in town, calling the attention of the neighborhood churches.
One can finish it in a day and then move on to the rest of Father Girzone's books involving Joshua.
Inspiring and heartwarming...but a bit dull, and edgier than one would expect for a novel like this.
Girzone tells a pretty good story, but parts of this read like stuff coming out of an intro fiction writing class.
The conversations are stilted and artificial.Nevertheless, the conceit of Jesus coming back to Earth under the radar is refreshing.
There is a sort of Will Rogers wit to Girzone's observations about religious practice, all the more interesting coming from a retired Catholic priest.His riff on marriage is passionate, but incomplete.
Certainly Catholicism has overregulated this and annulment has been a nightmre, but the character, Joshua, seems to forget his own words about marriage in the Gospels.
How Joshua interacts with Jewish characters is refreshing, but also left underdeveloped.
I haven't taken time to read Girzone's other Joshua books, but this was an amazing story because the author challenged me to think literally about what the Christ would be like if he walked among un now in the flesh. WWJW bracelets can't come close to the thinking level available through this novel.
Ugh...This book was a chore to read. Lifeless characters, wooden dialogue, a plot equal parts implausible and telegraphed. There is a refreshingly progressive message, but not at all artfully delivered.
As an elaborate parable, the story conveys some important messages.The modern-day Jesus (Joshua) is a great artist and skilled craftsman.
The book resorts to describing the personality of its characters more than realistically portraying them.
The story mainly (and too obviously) serves as a vehicle for Joshua's brief discourses on the current state of religion and Christianity in particular.In the book Fr. Girzone expresses his view, through Joshua, that art should have a definite message.
Joshua is worth reading for the message it conveys, but the story is too dominated by the author's message to be considered an effective medium.
Joshua, a simple carpenter, shows up in an upstate New York town and begins to change those around him through his quiet acts of generosity and kindness.
He reaches out to all of the various congregations in the town--the Jews, the African-American Pentecostals, the Catholics, the Episcopalians,the Methodists--and teaches them that religion is not important, kindness is.
Much of Joshua's criticism is aimed at the Roman Catholic Church, which--considering the source--made them very poignant.
I have come to the conclusion that I am a non-denominational Christian who goes to Catholic Church.
Man, I read these books around 1990.
How would Jesus be today?
At the heart of it, I like the basic message of Joshua - Jesus would be seen as an outcast.
But now as I look back at it, Joshua doesn't go nearly far enough - nor could it.
The way I view Jesus now as compared to how I did in 1990 is worlds apart.
But I'm getting away from the review of the book, which I enjoyed tremendously in 1990.
The problem with the book today is how tame it is.
I was raised catholic and I now believe that there has never been a time when Jesus ( the word made flesh) was not on this earth in human form coming to the people that prayed fervently for him to come .
He came to me and initiated me ( baptized me ) into surat shabd yoga ( the yoga of joining my soul with the holy spirit so i can also become the word made flesh)As Girzone says "The Bible is not Christianity .
Christianity is the Apostles (those LIVING HUMANS wh0 are guided by the holy spirit) " --and --"Christianity is not based on the Bible .
How the tables turn (the Jewish people that Joseph meet are compelled by him and warmly embrace him, as well as many seeking acceptance and more in life) and what Christianity is supposed to be about - not religious dogma, but rather a freedom in God. There were SO many good parts and scenes, but one of my favorites is this one (paraphrasing):At a synagogue service, an older Jewish man is enraged that this young "Christian", Joshua, is so openly and warmly received and confronts him along the lines of "Your people killed my people".Joshua, in return, takes a moment to gather himself and knows that this man is hurting and grieves.
Very touching. Well worth your time.
Great book!
Impossible to believe these could be real people with complex feelings and motivations, based on the things they said.Also important - it was clear to me that besides being banged on the head with bad writing, I was also being banged on the head with this author's take on Jesus.
Every denomination has its angle on Jesus - so to try and think "out of the box" from your own faith tradition to see the multi-faceted being of Jesus was for me, the best part of having read this book.
Essentially, Jesus (aka Joshua)arrives in a small American town (Salem - PA, I think, but is from Bethlehem, he tells people), he is a wood carver, he has sheep in his backyard, he makes friends with a woman named Mary....the author wanted Jesus to appear in modern culture but lacked the imagination to make him "fit".
Seems to me that the author has some beef with organized religion and took Jesus out of history and context to proclaim his own weaker message.
I shouldn't be surprised at hso wpopular this book is/was, but I am.
It goes against a lot of the dogma of the Catholic church as well as preaches more with a protestant tone than a Catholic one.
The author should not even use the word priest to describe himself any longer.
But other critics of his are far from any Catholic teaching and in fact goes against what is in the Gospels of the Catholic church.
I was very disappointed with this book and would not recommend it to anyone especially not to those who have no idea about the history of Christianity or the Dogmas of the Catholic church.
These kind of book reviews split me in two. Theres the believer point-of-view and then theres literary criticism. Can I separate the two here? If you love the subject matter, in this case it is Jesus, can you really be objective in a review?I guess I just have to go with how this book moved me. I read it twice which says a lot. Each time I got something out of it. I didnt agree with all of it, but I did agree with most of it.Girzones style is kind of simplistic - or is it? The conversations amon
These kind of book reviews split me in two.
If you love the subject matter, in this case it is Jesus, can you really be objective in a review?I guess I just have to go with how this book moved me.
I didn´t agree with all of it, but I did agree with most of it.Girzone´s style is kind of simplistic - or is it?
It makes you imagine an idyllic small town and gives it an unreal/fairy tale like feel that even if not intentional is effective.There´s a lot to dig around for in Joshua and all in all the book was satisfying and rewarding.
The story of a man (Joshua) who comes to a contemporary small town in America, lives the simple life of an artist, & has a tremendous impact on the community.
He is constantly critical of the Christian clergy for exerting too much authority over their flocks (which seems to me an odd judgment on contemporary mainstream Christianity) and comes into conflict with them.
Meanwhile, the people in the Jewish synagogue receive him enthusiastically.
Much of what happens has direct biblical parallels.
Eventually, Joshua gets called to testify before the Congregation of the Faith in Rome.
I'm sorry if you recommended this book to me, but I couldn't finish it.
The point of the book is that Joshua, the modest carpenter, moves into this town.
His life is supposed to parallel Christ's life, and the way the town treats him is representation of the way we may treat him.
Fine idea, but the author assumed the person reading couldn't draw their own parallels, and when Joshua carries a five foot beam of wood down Main Street to his shop, I just was done reading.
Joshua is by far the best novel I've read so far in 2016!
A co-worker recommended it to me after I told him about another Christian novel that I had recently read.
If you're someone that constantly seeks to know God better and has committed your life to spreading the gospel of Jesus Christ then Joshua will make you think long and hard about how you pursue God, exude His love in the world, as well as the current state of the church.
Simply put, I am in awe of this book and am so glad that I read it despite the fact that it was published over 30 years ago.
"Trite, preachy, condescending, chauvinistic, theologically flawed, overly simplistic, and a chore to read." These are but a few of the highly accurate descriptors used by fellow reviewers. If I hadn't read this book --and the bad reviews-- I might never have thought to create a bookshelf called "I-Wish-I-Hadn't-Read-That".I have suffered through two-thirds of this book and now I'm calling it quits.
Maybe it's just dated, maybe it's just me, but I found this book, although it does convey a message that needs to be heard, somewhat stilted, contrived, and overly simplistic. The author lacks imagination, painting his personal point of view too obviously, and the writing screams young adult, even for a high school reading list. Although I like and agree with the message, I didn't need it pounded into my brain over and over. A fast read, but pretty boring.
This was a graduation present from my church, given out each hear to high school graduates. It is a moving book about what Christ might be like if he were to show up today. It reminds us of the most important part of our religion that we usually forget: love. Joshua also reminds us of the downfalls of institutionalized religion and what both christianity and religion in general should be. A good read for a person exploring their faith.
Everyone has at least one friend who finds the Bible too difficult to understand, too much to finish, the excuses go on and on. This is the book for them. It's about Jesus coming back today, and how the world perceives this simple carpenter. It really shows how the story of Jesus can easily translate to today's age.
This is inspiring. This is a story about a carpenter who transforms ordinary lives with words of peace and loving actions. Joshua portrayed how Jesus came into our midst in today's time, and how we treated him.Joseph Girzone has done an excellent job of telling the story about a man trying to live in our modern society, and yet be true to his beliefs about God and Jesus' teachings.
I first saw the movie called Joshua and then found a copy of this to read. Wonderful series of books, I have not read the whole set. Joshua-(Jesus) in modern day stories told by a priest who likes to fish.
I really like these books, but I can see how they could be taken wrong by some. Maybe it is the simple life led by Joshua, similar in a way to Forrest Gump, that appeals to me.
