https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/828440.Her_Majesty_s_Wizard
It's breezy and action-packed, the main character is honest and self-deprecating despite his new-found magic, and there is a strong system of morality which presents itself as Stasheff opens his world.
What I did not notice as a young reader, however, is that Stasheff's system of morality does not simply present itself through his world; like most propaganda, it imposes itself upon the world and upon its readers.
I do not, however, believe Stasheff is a hack fantasy writer.
He is a good fantasy writer.
He also happens to be a propagandist.The morality of Stasheff's fiction is absolute not because he couldn't bother an original idea; he could and did.
Generally, the novel does not stray far from the paradigm, but where Stasheff differs from every other fantasy writer I have ever read is in the way he takes the Catholicism of a medieval setting seriously.
In some ways he is not quite successful in this - the ease with which the prayer of a churchman affects events causes some problems in the plot - but it makes the mindset of his characters a lot closer to those in the ultimate source material of a fantasy novel, the medieval romances about Arthur, Charlemagne and so on.
Giants good Colmain and bad Ballspear were turned to stone.
(view spoiler)[ Moncraire sent spell for Matt.
Ballspear fools Matt and gets woken first.
Matt heals ogre Breaorgh to handsome, still 8' tall, human, so he brings more ogres to fight.
Sayeesa brings convent, Brunel brings monastery, Stegoman brings dragons.
Matt raises 1K Greeks from Stegoman's bad tooth, but needs more men.
Sir Guy is descendant of Emperor's secret male line, who fight to keep away Ragnarok, takes Matt to Emperor for knighting ceremony.
Sayeesa and Brunel sacrifice themselves at end, distract and kill Malingo.
Matt disgruntingly proposes; Alisande angrily accepts; happy ever after.
So when I saw I had a chance to finally read the prequel novel, I couldn't turn the chance down."Her Majesty's Wizard" has a pretty standard premise: PhD student translates ancient runes, gets whisked away to a fantasy medieval Europe where he discovers reciting poetry does magic and becomes entangled in a rebellion against an usurper.
I enjoyed the world building the most, with the main character trying to untangle and understand the medieval society he has fallen in and it's poetry magic.
I do admit a bias when it comes to description of places, I love details about the worlds characters are part of because it helps me to fully acclimate to the book.
Aside from that first feeling of being rushed through information, the book is exciting and fun.
Reading this book is like watching a movie where you can't help but feeling as though you should tell the characters what decisions to make or what plot twists you've discovered, even though they obviously can't hear you.
I love that the book had gotten me so involved!
I was also (pleasantly) surprised to see Catholicism integrated into a magical world, which I hadn't seen since reading Katherine Kurtz.
Stasheff does a great job melding the Church into a world where magic works (though some of the effects seemed a little out of place).
Still, in a genre where Christianity (in general) and Catholicism (in particular) are more likely to be pilloried and derided, it was refreshing to see an author pull it off and present it as a force for good (while still peopled with imperfect characters).
When this book came out 25 years ago, I read it over and over till I the scotch tape could not hold the book together any more.
Two decades ago this was my favorite book of all time, and now that I am re-reading it its destine to become that way again!
There are a few errors in the text that look like a product of the PBOOK to EBOOK conversion, but can not swear they were not in the original as its been two decades since I read this book.
I keep trying to think of reasons to give this only four stars instead of five...
The unapologetic catholicism built into the world of this book is refreshing during this day and age of religious skepticism.
The religiousness of the book scarcely factors into the first half, but it makes for some beautifully done world-building overall.
It is not didactic or heavy-handed, hence the adjective 'refreshing'.There are some passages which deal with some very adult lust (which never ends well for the characters), but there isn't what a girl could call 'smut'.
I MAY HAVE TO READ IT AGAIN - ONLY 5 STAR BOOKS GET THAT LAST BIT.
ONLY FIVE STAR BOOKS, PEOPLE.
Not really a spoiler:A medieval fantasy where Christianity's concepts of God and evil are prominant--it's the only book I read where "good" magic is either assisted and backed by prayer and Christian monks and priests (and how sin-free you are), and "evil" sorcerers have sold their souls to the devil.
It is also interesting to see how the main character, who is from "our" world, utilizes his knowledge of science and technology to help him do magic--a nice juxaposition.
Somewhat of a spoiler:What fun that the main character's knowledge of classic literature and poetry makes for stronger spells instead of the usual rhyming doggerel.
Summary: I generally dislike books where the good side is all good and the baddies are all bad (back and white, no shades of grey) - this book does just that deliberately and festoons the whole thing with religious claptrap.
If that isn't bad enough it then adds awful rhyming rubbish as the basis of its magic system.
Having said all that, the characters are interesting, the plot moves along nicely and the writing is pretty good.Plotline: Plot is pretty good, although mostly predictable, but a few interesting twists keep it in focus.Premise: Awful.
Ish. I was very very tempted to give up, but mainly due to the awful premise.
Matthew Mantrell (if I remember his name right -- it' been a few years since I've read this) is a graduate student when he runs across an old manuscript.
He reads it and ends up transported to a world where Good and Evil are very literally manifest.
Matt finds that in his hands (or voice, anyway), poetry has magical effects in this new land.
Matt ends up fighting on the side of Good in a massive battle for ownership of the world, despite his imperfections.The book is a page-turner, hard to put down.
The book is thick with explorations of how personal (im)morality has consequences beyond that person.
Her Majesty's Wizard is great book.
It's a fast read, because it keeps you wanting to know what will happen next.
There's a little bit of science and a bit of philosophy all painlessly ingested while enjoying a wonderful adventure.
I've read this book, and this series several times, and enjoy it every time.
My only caveat is that only the first book and the last few books are available commercially as ebooks.
The first book was released as a Kindle book in April, 2011.
So perhaps eventually they'll be available.Christopher Stasheff
The start of Stasheff's Wizard in Rhyme series which follows Matt of Newark to a parallel dimension where there's no science, only magic worked by poetry.
I love this book, it's one of my all-time favorites.
There's a strong focus on the application of poetry as an active creator of actions.
The Christian allegory is a bit strong in all Stasheff's books, and he's always been interested in saints and the power struggle between bad and good.
If you're not interested in being preached to about Christianity, this can be a bit like forcing a sprig of broccoli down your throat.
Adventure, magic, good vs evil, with a touch of romance and sexuality that is still more appropriate for adults than children.
I enjoyed the story, but I prefer fantasy that reimagines our world in a new way, preferably better.
Most fantasy today keeps in all the gray areas, humans are neither totally good nor evil, we just are.
But I can find that by watching the news.
A great fantasy adventure has a true hero, that will do good and be strong and true.
I recommend this series to anyone who enjoys Tolkien , C S Lewis, or Terry Pratchett.
Medieval fantasy done right! At least, the world seems to operate the way that people in our medieval past thought it operated, with the nice addition of magic by poetry. I actually was so absorbed in this book that I almost missed my bus stop when I was getting toward the end. I liked all the characters (particularly Maxwell's Demon) and really enjoyed the idea of a contemporary person trying to figure out the science of magic, when dumped into a seemingly illogical world. I'm glad these have been released as ebooks!
I read this book before a few decades ago, and some of the scenes really stayed with me.
When I tried to think of a book with good light entertainment, that still had a good insight into people, I remembered it.
I liked it very much this time.
All too few fantasy authors take the concept of sin seriously, and even fewer grasp the concept of redemption.
It is very good entertainment, a real page turner; and it also takes people seriously, with all their faults.
In the midst of all the action, you still see the characters grow in their friendships, their knowledge and their virtue.
This book takes an english major out of his world and into a medieval and magical world where things are vastly different from his home. The man meets many very odd characters, all of who have their own flaws. He goes on an amazing adventure and rescues a princess and makes himself a hero. All the while he creates magic using poems. I have learned that poetry and prose can be combined in interesting ways to create unique elements to a story. As this book uses poems to create in the world the literal thing that the poem is describing.
This is one of my favorite books. It is certainly tied for the best "otherworlds" story of all time - at least for me. The author wanted to see a certain type of tale and since none were forthcoming decided to write it himself. It was a success. What if morals made a difference? A real difference? What would that be like? What was a real medieval take on life? Especially amidst fantasy creatures? This is a great mix of plot, flawed characters, hope, love, and spirituality. I will continue to read it again and again.
Matt is much the everyman at first, but when he discovers that in that alternate dimension all that reading (i presume) he did was worth it in SPADES!!!As the journey goes on, he goes from nobody to wizard, to royal bodyguard, to a damned one, redeems himself, and later becomes a knight!I i were to analyze it as a recipe, it ha1/2 cup of romance2 cups of adventure1 tbsp of comedy (careful with that, it's VERY concentrated!)2 cups of action1/4 tsp of suspense I reccomend it to anyone who likes a good adventure book.
Well written, much better than the Warlock series (GASP!) Has a lot of Christian mythos thrown in, though, and can get really preachy. The author's bio is freaky, as it describes basically a mentally ill person wandering around thinking about fantasy. Yikes. Still, it's a fun book whose gimmick works; Basically, anyone with the wizarding gene can cast spells by rhyming. It's a bit silly, but worth a read once.
Somebody was watching too much 'Saturday morning television' before getting down to the work of writing this book. Even in audio this comes across as a pop-up book. I have a mental image of the cut-out castle with the princess in the dungeon and a wise dragon, and the wicked sorcerer, and the weirdly evil king. Oh my!I've endured it for two and a half hours and that's enough.
This was a great book. Dom it became a little complicated, but I really liked it and will read the set. It also cloud have had a few less demons . Great read, the religion stuff could have been a little more clear for the laymen. I didn't get some of it. I am not Catholic and didn't get s of th references
nice book, a bit heavy on religious messages but enjoyable.
I've always enjoyed this series, one of the reasons it lives on my bookcase despite lack of space. Quick read and enjoyable even for a incorrigible atheist like me.
The first book that caught my eye, and led me to read fantasy books. Still awesome after so many years.
Pretty good, but part of the story was almost word for word from part of the first book in this series...
Very funny and great premise. Poetry actually works somewhere!
Her Majesty's Wizard is an excellent read for lovers of the Fantasy genre.
This is the first book of the Wizard in Rhyme series, about a doctoral student named Matthew Mantrell who finds himself transported to an alternate medieval Europe where magic is real.
It's also clear that medieval Catholicism is not only completely true in this world, but in its simplest form, with the Devil directly interfering in daily events and priests having a lot of power.
Stasheff was himself Catholic, and said that it bothered him that fantasy set in the medieval world tended to ignore religion, when it was such a significant part of life then.
But a lot happens in very little time and the absolute state of everything, there is only good/evil, right/wrong, may work in that universe but for a person from our universe to so quickly fall into those patterns stretched it for me.
He also seemed to be focused on his libido, any time a woman came up he was immediately turned on by her.
There was also a very strong Catholic theme to the story which seemed to be strange considering the Witch/Sorcerer/Wizard theme flowing along with the story as well though it helped with the Absolutes of the universe.
