https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42149.Baby_Proof
I loved Giffin's first two books, Something Borrowed and Something Blue, so I had high hopes for this book.
THE BOOK IS SET IN NEW YORK.The plot is ludicrous, formulaic, and trite.
Woman decides she never wants children, meets man with same view, marries said man, said man changes his mind.
Her two sisters are cardboard stereotypes - Daphne married her high school sweetheart, teaches grade school, and is desperate yet unable to conceive.
I wanted to shoot her in the face.In sum, if you like Giffin's earlier stuff, skip this one.
All the characters in her books seem to be somewhat interrelated, and the back cover looked interesting, especially since I, like the heroine, am a thirty-something woman exceedingly tired of being asked when I will have children.
But for those of us who purchased the book thrilled that a woman was finally taking a stand and saying "I don't want kids and I refuse to make excuses or be embarrassed by it", it was a great disappointment at the end of the book that she took her husband back and seemed to be waffling on the baby issue.
She ends up miscarrying and then dumped by the married guy, but no worries, as she ends up in a serious relationship about 2 minutes later.The sister that wants babies asks Claudia for eggs and the plot goes like this: let me think about it, maybe, no because I'm saving all my eggs for when I get Ben back!
Good grief, I hope they never have babies because they might change their mind and not want it, give it away, and then ask for it back again.Claudia also bad mouthed the cheating brother-in-law, but when her sister temporarily forgives him, all is okay with him, he's not that bad.The author had some witty lines and would probably be okay if this was a short story.
I'm guessing that to even things out, the husband decides that he'd live without a child to be with her, but...that's what the agreement was between them to begin with.
Griffin didn't have to put that "you have to be willing to do anything in order to keep your man" bullshit out there for young girls and women to read.
They almost always end up disregarding their own wishes for their lives and giving in...because that's the way it is written.
We women are not BORN to sell-out and give in EVERY time some man (or woman or other significant other) asks for something they don't wish to give.
She gets me every time and quite frankly I'm sick of your shit, Giffin!I'm going to come right out and say it: people who say they don't want children astound me.
The couple in this book are financially sound, in their thirties, with stable careers, a good home, and in a happy, loving marriage...
She got a divorce, she ploughed ahead as a baby-hating, workaholic singleton, and I was with her the whole way, until suddenly it became very clear to me how the book was going to end - (view spoiler)[she was going to give in and have a baby after all.
Yet another Emily Giffin novel, and I think it was okay for the most part.
The thing I HATE about Giffin as a writer is she makes a really interesting, difficult scenario that makes you sympathize with her characters, and then she can't think of how to solve the moral dilemma, so near the end of her books she pulls something COMPLETELY horrible, whether it's a cliché plot development or a seriously erroneous logical argument for making her characters change motives (an anti-feminist/anti-individualist argument in this case).
The protagonist spends the whole book trying to get over her ex-husband who left her because she didn't want children.
In the end, they reconcile because while she still doesn't want children, she'd consider having them to be with her soulmate.
I think that is a selfish notion - yes, it seems unselfish to procreate because you love your husband so much and that is what he wants.
And to me that works for everything ("I'll convert for you", "I'll live in Des Moines for you") EXCEPT children.
Because a child should be wanted and loved by both parents for the family unit to work.
This is one of the WORST books I have ever read. Please do not torture yourself.
Claudia is a successful book editor and Ben is a successful architect who are both enjoying their married childfree life.
Although they both agreed in the dating stage that neither wants to have children, the issue come back up when the find out that their mutual friends are going to have a baby.
Claudia sticks to her guns about not wanting children but Ben is now not so sure and decides he may want kids after all.
During their separation and divorce, Claudia does a lot a soul searching to figure out why she doesn't want kids.
D This book reminded me of why I don't like chick lit -- unrealistic expensive Manhattan lifestyles obsession with finding love partner. Anyway, this seemed more promising -- a woman finds a man who also doesn't want kids (yay! Perfect for me--like T!) and then he changes his mind, and the whole drama. An ending to gag over.
Incluso he escuchado a gente muy cercana a mí, referirse a estas personas como "no, ella no tiene a nadie" "no, esta solita pobrecita" porque claro si pasan de los 25 ya no son solteras, son solteronas o "solas"(estas mismas personas se van a referir a mi asi, estoy segura).A VER, esto me enerva, porque yo pienso que soy incapaz de tener pareja (por diversos motivos) y ademas ME SIENTO RE BIEN CON MI PROPIA COMPAÑIA.
Esto lo digo a mis 20 años y puede ser que cambie de opinión, tal como lo hizo Ben. Si leyeran el libro entenderían por que no quiero.

Wonderful heartwarming story.
Giffin's writing style and subject matter was what enticed me to listen to this book on CD.
It's always good to know you're not alone in questioning the main stream expectations that society imposes.In any case, I was glad when Giffin's heroine found herself analyzing not just her own situation, of not seeing eye-to-eye with her husband on the baby issue, but the romantic relationships of her friends' and sisters'.
It almost seems like Giffin/Claudia sees these relationships and uses them to console herself about her own guy situation.All in all, I think Giffin has a knack for writing in a believable inner-narrative style and creating vivid and colorful characters that serve to punctuate the dramatic story with witty banter and comic relief.
However, midway through the novel Claudia abruptly can't stand her new boyfriend (even though he was amazing until he gives her a perfectly lovely birthday gift - makes sense, right?), starts reflecting on her ex husband (who comes across as a short, whiny little man who pouts when he doesn't get his way; the christening scene literally made me wrinkle my nose in disgust at him), and after realizing that one of her novelists (a man, no less) is "telling me to have a baby to get Ben back" - admits that it's "just about the worst advice I've ever heard" (maybe because it flies in the face of what any self-respecting woman in this century would do) - decides to throw what she wants aside and consider having a baby just to get her ex back.
The plot is completely unbelievable - are we supposed to believe the so called perfect couple gets divorced after what seems to be about 2 weeks of arguing about having a baby?
Then is it possible that most of the people around the wife are having child issues (kids keeping someone in a bad marriage, not being able to conceive, conceiving with a married boyfriend) at the same time?
It's insulting to the readers intelligence...
and that is what makes it the perfect beach read.
If that is what you're looking for, pick it up.
If not, run for the hills.
From the author of the smash hits Something Borrowed and Something Blue comes a novel that explores the question: is there ever a deal-breaker when it comes to true love?Women who don't want children? Are they monsters? That's how society makes us feel if you don't want babies. I was like that for awhile... slightly still am (I rather have dogs than babies) so maybe that's why I enjoyed this book, because I was able to relate to the main character. However, I gave it four stars because Claudia annoyed me in some parts.
the end was kinda abrupt BUT this has to be one of the first book that I've read were the main character doesn't want a child and we are shown how that decision affects not only her life, but her husband's and their family.I loved it. I don't want children either and I could totally relate to Claudia.(which is funny, because everyone is saying she is spoiled selfish and whiny and yet I thought she was like my missing sister lol)
I always find myself identifying with the protagonist and asking, "What would I do I were in her situation?" or, "If I were her best friend, what would I advise her to do?" The answer is never easy -- huh, just like real life!
It's strange, but I almost feel relieved after I read one of her books: relieved because someone else has sort of answered that question of "what might happen if." It's like learning from someone else's life: you may judge their choices, but you always see a little of yourself reflected there, and you're always a little bit glad that they went through it and not you.
I loved the first two Emily Griffins I read -- and -- but this is by far my favorite. I am a book crier, this is true, but when I was tearing up a few chapters in, I thought, "Dang! She's good!" The novel is very realistic, and there were moments when I laughed to myself, "That is so true! I wish someone had told me that BEFORE I got married!" This really captures the emotions and desperation of that awkward stage that happens the first time you seriously realize -- as in the first time your par
I am a book crier, this is true, but when I was tearing up a few chapters in, I thought, "Dang!
She's good!" The novel is very realistic, and there were moments when I laughed to myself, "That is so true!
I wish someone had told me that BEFORE I got married!" This really captures the emotions and desperation of that awkward stage that happens the first time you seriously realize -- as in the first time your partner breaks your trust -- marriage isn't going to be all kisses and happy memories.
As gloomy as that sounds, the book is honestly amazing.
It really made me appreciate my marriage.
I read this book because I had heard about it from my baby boards. I did not read Giffin's other 2 books. I was pregnant at the time and wanted a funny and light read. I didn't like it much. I thought it was extremely shallow and I found it strange that the characters go from having a great marriage to divorce. It makes it sound like divorce is a quick,easy answer when you don't get your way. I thought the ending was too sugary sweet and fake.
DNF.I gave up. it was..boring. i listened to this in audiobook, but i listened just 20minutes. But i just gave up. it was boring, annoying and not fun at all.
She feels lost, and apparently somehow still in love with Ben. WHAT?Yep. A friend of hers casually says something profound that makes Claudia think she will have Ben's baby if that's what it takes.[image error]Seriously.
I do think in this book that Claudia was defined by her decision not to have children because the people she surrounded herself with were not like minded individuals.
Do you think that most people would see a partner who doesn't want children as a deal-breaker?
I think that if Claudia had wanted children just a little bit that yes compromise could have happened.
And it is Richard, along with Claudia’s sisters, her best friend, and a smattering of other well-developed supporting characters, who allow Claudia to see what sacrifices she is willing to make to have the life that she really wants.Thanks to Giffin’s engaging writing and thought-provoking characters, Baby Proof isn’t your typical chick-lit beach read.
In short, Giffin’s remarkable insight allows the reader to relate to each character, and often on more than one level.Bottom Line: Baby Proof is moving, honest, and thoughtful.
And besides, I want to be able to tell my children about my life experiences rather than not having any to draw on when said child is asking me questions.
Yes, people say those things to me just like they do Claudia.I think Claudia and Ben's divorce seemed sudden since it was at the begining of the story rather than the end but there was still a good plot throughout the book.
Since the divorce rate is as high as it is, its good to show a family who is not "perfect".
Giffin did a good job of reminding people that lots of blended families exist now a days.
I loved Emily's first 2 books, but I had a hard time with this one. I think I was having a hard time with the main character. I didn't sympathize with her at all and was actually rooting for the husband more than her.
Divertido e cativante! queria muito saber logo o final!
just love these stories.
Meh. I listened to the audiobook of this one narrated by Cynthia Nixon, which was great. However, the story was boring. Literally nothing happened. A woman doesn't want a baby, gets married, her husband decides he does, gets divorced, kinda sees other people, gets back together with her ex. Mkay. And??? I wanted more turmoil in her life, there didn't really seem to be much. I didn't have any empathy for her. Just okay for me.
It feels like when the author can delve on one issue in such extensive detail, with such rationalism and argumentative adept of a lawyer (Giffin practiced litigation for several years before turning to a full-time writer), leaving out the ending to the readers is not what I was expecting or hoping for.
Claudia’s emotions and dilemma, reasoning and arguments are expressed so emphatically and firmly and sensibly, that it seems that Giffin has the same say in these matters, and must want freedom and child-free life (one and the same thing for Claudia) in real life as much as the protagonist.
