https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/896621.Shanna
Putting this down for... the time being? Forever?Really put off by the love interest raping the main character, and I'm not ready to read 500+ more pages of a 'romance' between them...
From the opening pages I could visualize everything she was describing like it was a movie - the carriage travelling over the cobblestones through the foggy, wet streets of London on the way to Newgate gaol.
It’s all part of the way KEW takes you into the story.Shanna takes you from London, across the Atlantic to Los Camellos, on a pirate ship bound for a hidden island in the Caribbean to the untamed wilderness of Virginia.
Except for Shanna’s stubbornness, which is much more apparent reading this as an adult.I would recommend this book for anyone who loves a chunky (666 pages), historical romance.
His book is still my all time favourite.
A classic.It is also the only historical romance book my husband ever listened to, against his will and with strong protestations, as read by me.
that carriage, surrounded by that dark night, jolting over those cobblestones.
For it is really the Taming of the Shrew - only with tons more sex - so there was a lot more he liked about it than I!True, I stopped to ski, then went on to read while he continued his marathon hot-dogging down those snowy slopes of Sun Valley, Idaho.
And I didn’t mind re-reading that part again either.

En un libro tan extenso como éste, que no puedas soportar a la protagonista principal -por indecisa, clasista, vengativa, irreflexiva, altanera, actuar como el perro del hortelano y no sigo pero podría- hasta más de la mitad de la historia se hace muy cuesta arriba.
No en vano, está llena de aventuras; no paran de pasar cosas; el protagonista masculino, Ruark, es un Dios entre los hombres, con una capacidad de amor y perdón infinita, y hasta salen ¡piratas!La frase para subrayar de este libro: No sé si es peor el dolor de mi pierna o el de mi entrepierna.
It's called overwriting, & KEW's prose was a epic success in terms of padding a 350-400 page story into 650+ pages of Grand Dame romantic legend.From pg 171:His eyes aflame and lusting, Ruark lowered his weight upon her, parting her thighs, and pressed deep with[in] her.
Shanna moved to welcome the hard thrust, her woman's body reacting instinctively to this new, indescribable, budding, splintering feeling that built with pulsing leaps and bounds deep within her.
The wild, soaring ecstasy burst upon them, fusing them together in the all-consuming caldron of pleasure.I understand that romance needs to include feels, but c'mon.
I'm leaving it unrrated because I can't remember much. I read it like four years ago.
I liked how he could forgive so easily even with all the pain she puts him through and he never gives up on her, Striving to show her how much he loves and cares for her through out the book.Though Shanna may be immature and self-centered in wanting to live the dream of her childhood fantasy, Rurak moves heaven and earth for her love and becomes a dream grounded in reality (of the book at least).I think many woman want the perfect suitor and I believe Ruark is just that.
Woodiwiss's writing, even though I've had some of her books on my shelves for years.
But when the publisher sent me a copy of Shanna I decided that there's no time like the present, and dove right in.
And oh, how glad I am that I did because this isn't just a historical romance, it's an epic love story.
There's mystery, romance, passion, sword fights, pirates, kidnapping, murder...start to finish it's one captivating, exciting adventure!Needless to say - but I'll say it anyway - I'll be reading more of this author's writing, very soon!My thanks to Avon Books for providing me with a copy of this story.
A wonderful Georgian romance.Set in mid 18th century London, the Caribbean and the Colony of Virginia, this is the story of the strong willed Shanna Trahern, the only daughter of a successful British merchant who has retired with his wealth to his Caribbean island, Los Cammellos.
Her father gives Shanna, who has rejected all her suitors, one year to find a suitable husband or he's picking one for her, preferably one with a title.
Nearing the end of the year, she decides that in order to avoid her father's picking a man for her, she'll take a husband from among those in Newgate Prison facing the gallows.
So I decided to do a re-read on this older gem of a book.
I originally read it back in the 1978 range and I was about 13 years old when I read.
No, my mother didn't know I read it.
Still has the original store price sticker on it.
Here is the deal, doing old re-reads can be a tricky thing.
Some books don't hold up to the test of time and this one didn't for me.
But Shanna was so immature and bi-polar, I don't know how Roark stood her.
I felt like this for 2/3s of the book.
Not once.And then he claims to love her.Ruark got to his feet, counting himself far luckier than any man on the island, despite what they might have termed poor luck in being imprisoned for murder and sold into bondage.
In truth, if he hadn't been in the gaol, he never would have married Shanna, and he counted all the abuse he had suffered there well worth the gain of such a wife.Oh, Ruark...She's also so hot and cold to him throughout most of the novel.
She deserved it.Anytime during the novel that Shanna feels any sort of guilt or sadness, it's a result of what she's done to Ruark.
(view spoiler)[It couldn't get much more tidy or corn-venient.
(hide spoiler)]I am the perfect reader for this book though, I must admit.
I loved the flowery, lavender-hued prose and the abundance of detail in this rather lighthearted, adventure tale.That's not to say there wasn't a fair amount of conflict, but it was the good kind in which an awful, naughty villainess-type character slowly comes undone by a wily and determined heroic one.
Where I was convinced the author was setting up a fall for the main characters, she turned it into a boon instead.
Sorta made me realize I've got trust issues with authors, lol.
But it was Ms. Woodiwiss's third book, 'Shanna,' that was by far my favorite.Ruark Beauchamp is an alpha male - not in the same way as Brandon or Wulfgar, but then, Shanna was a bit more high-maintenance than either one of the heroines in the previous two books.
In today's reading world perhaps the "graphic" description of the hot sex Shanna and Ruark had could not hold up to the writing of authors such as E.L.James (whose work I love by the way) or others writing in the romantic-erotica-alpha male genre.
Me ha encantado!!! Ruark es maravilloso!!! Shanna es malcriada acostumbrada a salirse con la suya,a veces le darías... La novela tiene de todo, romance, aventura... y te lleva a muchos sitios la isla de Los Camellos, América, Londres...he disfrutado mucho. Es lo primero que leo de esta autora y no me ha decepcionado para nada. Para mi es una de esas joyitas románticas escritas hace años, creo que cuando la relea me gustará todavía más.
There are books full of jerk heroes who redeem themselves in the last pages and people simply love them because they are rude, arrogant, self-confident, whatever.
So, I don't understand why so many people didn't like Shanna.
She's that kind of person, with one difference: she's a young girl and not a 35 year old jerk hero.
But as the story grows, Shanna will grow up with it and she will become a real heroine.
I confess that one of the most delicious parts of the story was to watch Shanna's growth while I delighted myself with Ruark's wonderful, fearless and persevering love, which knew no barriers or sacrifices.
The heroine can get a little anoying, but when i found myself getting annoyed at her for not just acknowledging her feelings and going with it I remembered a couple things in her defense.
1.) In the beginning Ruark is not sweet and loving, he's angry and demanding about his deal unconsummated.
3.) Most people in real life take at least a year before they pledge themselves in marriage, so I guess I can forgive a romance character for taking more than the usual 2-3 weeks to realize she's madly in love.
PS-- I wonder (since this is considered a romance classic) if Outlander's Claire BEAUCHAMP is Diana Gabaldon's homage to Shanna?
Ruark is in prison waiting to be hanged for a murder he did not commit.Shanna has to marry or her father will choose her a husband.
Then we have nearly 600 pages of a fast adventure, bondsmen(slaves),revenge, colonials, pirates, kidnapping, a couple of murders and love.The story is brilliant and Ruark is the perfect to die for Hero.
She redeemed Shanna.
The spoiled child was gone and a loving caring woman was in her place.
But it was the way KEW redeemed her, it was done so slick and subtly that you hardly noticed.
Over a few chapters Shanna was forgiveable, human and I loved her.
This one of those books I loved for the hero, and wanted to drop the heroine off a cliff. Back in the day, that was rare. Usually the heroes were jerks with a capital J, and I just wanted the heroine to get away from the hero and give a rude gesture as she walks away. I should reread this. It's a long book, though. Probably should finally read Outlander, first.
Vaya chasco, no le pongo una estrella porque al final lo he terminado, hubo momentos que pensé no seguir....:(
#RitaWoodiwiss #RetoRita2 Más bien es un 3,5/5 que con esta autora soy bastante benévola.Lo que me ha estropeado está historia ha sido quien le da nombre, es decir, Shanna. Una de las protagonistas más insoportables que he leído aunque hacía el final se va redimiendo, para mi gusto algo tarde. Sin embargo, él, Ruark me ha encantado.La historia no está mal, tiene un par de intrigas, aunque una es bastante obvia.En resumen, dos tortas con la mano abierta a Shanna al principio y se le habría quitado mucha tontería jajaja...
The only reason I stuck with this book was because of all the great reviews and I kept hoping I would find the wonderment that so many others have felt while reading this book.
I found the plot kept repeating itself only in different locations.
Ruark was the only reason to continue reading the book and I was happy for his HEA but wonder what he found so attractive in Shanna besides her outward appearance.
I felt for most of the book Shanna was a selfish, spoiled brat that needed a kick in the butt!
My friend Matt Bowne's mom was really really into romance novels.
Once when I was at his house, waiting for him to finish his chores, I asked her what she was reading.
She said I wouldn't be interested, but I was no I was.
It was Shanna, orange cover, and she said it was her favorite romance novel ever.
So she let me borrow it and I was hooked.
I read pulp romance novels my first year of college, and I still love them to this day.
Where else can you read "wings of femininity" or someone getting "impaled by his shaft."
I'm rating this a 5 because this book changed my life when I was an impressionable teenager.
It was the first racy romance novel I ever read and it influenced my life-long love of reading.
I've read everything Kathleen wrote and I truly believe she paved the way for today's erotic romance novels with strong Alpha male heros.
Having said that, I recently tried to reread Shanna and it certainly is harder to read today.
I almost wish I hadn't reread because my memory had it as the perfect romance, but my more adult and well-read self sees a lot of issues that bug me now.
What is not to love about the epic novels of this author. I read this title again as recently as 2005, but couldn't tell you the first time I read this book. Romance abound in almost every word!
this book is one of the reasons I write romance novels...I reread this every five years or so. Never get tired of Kathleen Woodiwiss!
Shanna needs a husband or she'll be forced to marry someone her father chooses.
But Ruark manages to cheat the hangman and finds himself an indentured servant, a bondsman to Shanna's father.
There are a lot of great things to see, but it takes so damned long.
(view spoiler)[I mean the guy who murdered the woman Ruark was accused of killing happens to be the Knight who is courting Shanna.
The husband of the woman is Shanna's maid's long lost love...yeah, and a dozen more strings neatly tied into a bow (hide spoiler)], but overall it's a great book.(Group Read with Tuelle and Rockelle)
Shanna is not onlya reread for me, it is the first romance bookI ever read.
I was on a summer trip, whenmy older, much cooler cousin was obsessedwith reading this book while we were supposedto be having fun on the beach, and sailing.She put it down, said if I wanted to changemy life, read it.
This book has stuckwith me through the years.Basically Shanna needs a husband.
Ruark isin jail, and needs to get out!
Ruark was my first book boyfriend.
I haveread the reviews, and yes, Shanna can beannoying, but what she really is, is spoiled.You get to see her journey from spoiled tothe woman that loves Ruark Beauchamp.
I loved this couple and loved rereading this book.
The first romance novel I ever read.
KW set the standard for other romance novels to hold up to, in my opinion.
So, she finds someone to marry--in prison.
She chooses a condemned man to be her husband and he agrees but only if she promises him one night with her.
She sets off for her island home confident that her father will leave her alone for now.
Imagine her surprise when she sees a man on the island who looks like her husband...who was not hung and is alive.
THREE WORDS: DID NOT FINISHUrghhhhhh I'm not going read another 400 pages of this.
