https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11013.Finnegans_Wake
I was the son and heir of a shyness that was criminally vulgar.
My all-conquering shyness kept Morrissey in gold-plated ormolu swans for eight years.
I would start out composing a piece of surrealist free-association prose, usually violently satirical.
As the teachers (or pupils or other humans) closed in around me, my prose would lapse into soothing gibberish.
Luscious lovely words!
I came to associate collapsed language with an inner space where I went to hide from the imagined humiliations of interacting with others.
So this book, to me, is The Little Book of Calm.
Except it isn’t little, and it makes people shit themselves.
Estos términos están tomados de la traducción de Marcelo Zabaloy, quien realizó la primera traducción completa al español por primera vez en la historia, pero es algo que voy a comentar más adelante.Relacionado a este tema y para comprender y compartir que Joyce no escribió este libro sin ningún sentido sino con erudición y en forma meticulosa, tomemos esta palabra de cien letras aparentemente incongruente, que ya en la tercera página nos choca de lleno:¡bababadalgharaghtakamminarronnkonnbronntonnerronntuonnthunntrovarrhounawnskawntoohoohoordenenthurnuk!Este término, vocablo o como quiera llamarse no está incluido por que sí.
We cannot consider the snow “faintly falling, like the descent of their last end, upon all the living and the dead”, we cannot consider “Once upon a time and a very good time it was there was a moocow coming down along the road and this moocow that was coming down along the road met a nicens little boy named baby tuckoo”, we cannot consider “Stately, plump Buck Mulligan came from the stairhead, bearing a bowl of lather on which a mirror and a razor lay crossed”, without considering “A way a lone a last a loved a long the riverrun, past Eve and Adam's, from swerve of shore to bend of bay, brings us by a commodius vicus of recirculation back to Howth Castle and Environs.” To accept Joyce’s place in the history of literature is to accept Finnegans Wake as his greatest contribution.

I finish a novel or a book, digest it, then move on.
Having just finished 'Finnegans Wake' I'm not sure that approach is even possible.
This is a book that is simply impossible to really finish.
Yes, I read from the beginning to end.
Yes, I listened to it while reading.
Yes, I spoke sentences out loud.
Yes, I shouted words.
But, I feel like I've scratched the semantic surface of a great field.
I feel it even as I gladly set this book aside.
I never felt in control.
I never felt in command.
I take no shame in admitting that I cannot read this book.
I was defeated after three paragraphs:"What clashes here of wills gen wonts, oystrygods gaggin fishy-gods!
Brékkek Kékkek Kékkek Kékkek!
Ualu Ualu Ualu!
Sod’s brood, be me fear!
Sanglorians, save!
Killykill-killy: a toll, a toll.
What bidimetoloves sinduced by what tegotetab-solvers!"I can’t even begin to decipher that nor do I have the patience or will to do so.
I see what Joyce is doing; he is fucking around with words and having a blast, but I don’t want any part of it.
Joyce makes up words, uses dialect, and god knows what else in the first few chapters, it's like he's trying to be obtuse to make a game out of it.That might be fun in a short story, but this is 600-some pages.If someone can suggest a good method for consuming this damn thing, the Rosetta Stone for why I should care, I'm open to ideas, but otherwise, it's getting put away
Thus "kissmiss" is both the festive season and something that might happen during it, with a suggestion of fatefulness; the Holy Father becomes a "hoary frother"; and an old photo is a "fadograph." Reading this book requires Job's patience but in the end, it is rewarding for the fact that this is another testimony to James Joyce's brilliance as a writer.
That approach of reading a chapter of the book then refer to the internet helped because at least I was picking up the basic plot.
It is amazing how James Joyce put together this book and wrote all those verses that are so funny.
The easiest book in the world...
Add to this the wads of cultural ephemera that Joyce has packed the book with and you find yourself in the rare position to occasionally be BETTER qualified to interpret parts of the text than academics.Try this, get some friends together, pop the cork on a few bottles of wine and, in your most twee Irish accents read it to each other.
A whole new world of dirty jokes, awful puns, barbed insults and musical references will suddenly pop out of this previously "impenetrable" text.And don't be afraid to get sidetracked, it's part of the point.
The other day we saw The Ghost, the rather fine new movie by Polanski.
Ewan McGregor plays a ghostwriter, who's been brought in to fix up the memoirs of a British ex-Prime Minister who absolutely isn't Tony Blair.
He's given the manuscript, and groans in pain."That bad?" asks the woman who isn't Cherie Blair."Well it's got all the words," says McGregor.
"They're just not in the right order."This suggested to me the following simple experiment with Finnegans Wake, one of the greatest etc etc in the English language.
And here's a sample of what comes out:The rest of this review is available elsewhere (the location cannot be given for Goodreads policy reasons)
Or better still to hold its heft until and while yore fast a Schlep?The meaning ist all betweed the last and first one or two hemidemisentences of this nonomonograph:"Put off the old man at the very font and get right on with the nutty sparker round the back:...A way a lone a lost a last a loved a long the riverrun, past Eve and Adam’s, from swerve of shore to bend of bay, brings us by a commodious vicus of recirculation back to Howth Castle & Environs." To here or where do we return?
You should have a kelchy chose and clayblade and at all times make prayses to the three of clubs always, having checked it is not misleading to tuss like a whoopy anisine, whipping your eyesoult and gnatsching your teats over the brividdy road users before changing course or direction, stopping or moving off (djowl there, longfoot here, and bejesus back again) and the doctor's bill for Joe McJohn and all his catholic lemony heathens.Cancel them after use, the rancid old patootsies.

If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Causabon's Key To All Mythologies with Guinness and Opera: “Finnegans Wake” by James Joyce"We'll meet again, we'll part once more.
My chart shines high where the blue milk's upset."In “Finnegans Wake” by James JoyceJoyce could really write.
I see Joyce as a product of his 'modernist' era, certainly, but a sincere one.
It's remarkable how much of Finnegans Wake is comprehensible, in spite of the fact that Joyce's words don't actually exist; we know what he means, or we can guess at it, which would be impossible if it was just gibberish.
There's more stuff on the other side of the rainbow.

Many people find this book perplexing, but I find it’s something like a magic hat crossed with a hall of mirrors.
These ideas sound Jungian, and actually Jung was a contemporary of Joyce's, who thought Joyce was insane.
Jung did treat Lucia, and he and Joyce became friends through a common care for Joyce's daughter.
There is a famous quote where Jung compares Joyce to his daughter saying, "They are two people going to the bottom of a river--one falling, the other diving."Jung, Joyce, and Lucia, all become characters woven into the dream language of Finnegans Wake.

Your reading slows down every time you hit an unfamiliar word: perhaps it’s in one of the sixty to seventy languages that appear in the Wake, or maybe it’s a Joycean triple-pun, but when whatever they are is every second word in the book, it can feel like you’re reading treacle.Yes, a lot of it is nonsense, and if I wrote a 600+ page book consisting mostly of words that were invented, I would judge anyone who wanted to read it, but you and I didn’t write it, the greatest author of the 20th century wrote it, so don’t worry: it comes preapproved.
While one could argue that this kind of critique is a signal of the Stalinist suppression of anything not "for the people," (the Bolsheviks actually praised Tolstoy and suppressed Dostoevsky) I do think that Tolstoy has a valid point--especially with regards to Joycean Modernism.
I think D.H. Lawrence makes this argument much more powerfully in Lady Chatterly's Lover--anther Modernist novel, yes, but one whose acclaim does not exist just because the author was able to reference every piece of literature written before the Common Era.I guess I do understand the acclaim this novel receives: it references everything and Joyce DID have to be rather brilliant to know all of these languages.
Poor lad, he ain’t one of the keepers.”To hell Tim descended without any fear, To the devil, whom not much is lost on,Said he, “I’m sure you’ll be comfortable here, Among all your old friends from South Boston.”Tim’s jokes night and day caused Satan to swear, As migraines crept behind blood red eyelids,“An eternity with you is just too much to bear.
You’re going home to your wife and your nine kids.”So up pops Tim at his wake from his casket.
You may take comfort in Finnegan’s wake.from "Bloomsday: The Bostoniad"
And, although the present race in Ireland is backward and inferior, it is worth taking into account the fact that it is the only race of the entire Celtic family that has not been willing to sell its birthright for a mess of pottage.’ (Critical Writings, 1966, p.159-66.)’  This is of much help too: http://www.ricorso.net/rx/library/aut...********** read (v.)  Old English rædan (West Saxon), redan (Anglian) "to advise, counsel, persuade; discuss, deliberate; rule, guide; arrange, equip; forebode; explain" (related to ræd, red "advice"), from Proto-Germanic *redan (cognates: Old Norse raða, Old Frisian reda, Dutch raden, Old High German rattan, German raten "to advise, counsel, guess"), from PIE root *re(i)- "to reason, count" (cognates: Sanskrit radh - "to succeed, accomplish," Greek arithmos "number amount," Old Church Slavonic raditi "to take thought, attend to," Old Irish im-radim "to deliberate, consider").
Did I finish reading The Restored Finnegans Wake?
Am I going to finish The Restored Finnegans Wake?
Often I feel I am living my days within its covers, among its script-labyrinths- that the instant I started reading Finnegans Wake was the instant I left the World and since then I've been like Echo, its winding streams entrapping me on isles of many-tongued birds and spectral flora, I follow stags deep into rainlighted forests calling "Who's there?
There is a sense in which the surroundings of the dreamer show up in the dream, and he has a lot of source material on that.I still think the Campbell and Robinson's Skeleton Key is the best general guide.References: Joyce's Book of the Dark: Finnegans Wake A Reader's Guide to Finnegans Wake A Skeleton Key to Finnegans Wake: Unlocking James Joyce's MasterworkFinnegans Wake: A Plot Summary (Irish StudiesTip!
is this for real?I reread "Araby" several times before devouring the essay entitled "Epiphany" with which Prentice-Hall saw fit to prepare innocent 10th graders, fattened by a year of American Lit wasted on Transcendentalist saying-everything-about-nothing hogwash and subsequent semester devoted to memorizing large swaths of The Exeter Book and Chaucer's Tales in their original, etymologically-accurate forms (this being a Catholic school, we were spared significant exposure to the great heretic Milton).
* In the time it would have taken for me to read this book, I could have read and enjoyed the wisdom contained in 200 other books.* If -- unlike all the four- and five-star raters here who won't fess up and admit they've never finished a book they are rating so highly -- you desire to be truthful and really say that you have read "Finnegan's Wake" and not be a liar about it, you can go read the original same-named ballad that inspired Joyce's opus, here: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Finnegan...* There's a story called, "The Emperor's New Clothes." Go back and read it and think on it a tad.* The 20th century was an eventful century, but it was interesting mostly for its wars, not for its arts, or at least, not in the sense of its so-called "high" arts which were traditionally thought of as representing the finest creations of an era: painting, literature, classical music, etc..
Αυτό το χαοτικά ονειρικά βιβλίο,μάλλον έπος,δεν διαβάζεται στο κρεβάτι.Σε θέλει ξύπνιο (ή πιο σωστά) ξάγρυπνο.Προκλητικό,ειρωνικό,με στοιχεία πρόζας,και συχνά (στο μεγαλύτερο μέρος του δηλαδή) δεν βγάζει νόημα.Δεν μπαίνει σε καλούπια,σε αφήνει να το ερμηνεύσεις όπως θες.Και με μια γλώσσα τελείως δική του.Για μένα,πιο δύσκολο απ' το "Ulysses".Το κατάλαβα όλο; Προφανώς όχι.Προς το παρόν μου φτάνει έστω και το λίγο.
“Fabulous Pub Fare”Australians all let us read Joyce!Though we are liter’y,We dread the trouble and the toil.He’s not our cup of tea.His works abound unread on shelvesIn bookstores everywhere. It’s time we tried Finnegan’s Wake, Dubliners and Ulysses.In Joyceful ways, then, let’s consumeThis fabulous pub fare!(Extract from “Proposal for a Chair in Joycean Studies”By Professor Bruce Bloomsday, Poet Lorikeet and Larrikin,Department of English, Scottish and Irish Studies, Finnegan’s Tavern Campus, University of Woolloomooloo) ReviewMy review of the restored version of the novel is here:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...SOUNDTRACK:“Fabulous Pub Fare”[aka "Advance Australia Fair"]https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3VuC3..."Advance Australia Fair" (Official Lyrics)http://www.imagesaustralia.com/austra...
So even though saying "It's about Dublin and the river that flows through it" glosses over the mad experiment of prose Finnegans Wake is notorious for, it actually says a lot more considering the number of ideas that get packed into that one image.As for that mad prose experimentation, I went in thinking it's possible that the first page of prose that everyone reads and knows the book for might not be representative of the whole thing, thus giving people the wrong impression.
There's a custodian in my apartment complex i've become friendly with named Red. One day, I noticed Red eyeing me up while I sat reading my copy of Finnegan's Wake and asked him if he was familiar with it.
He replied "Yes" in his kindly old Red way, and launched into a breathless, half hour criticism of Joyce as a literary thief, "Picasso of letters" he called him, convincingly accusing him of cobbling his text together from bits and pieces of other writers' work.
Astonished, I asked Red why he was a custodian and not teaching English Lit somewhere.
"Because",he said,"I hate James Joyce...And I don't know how to read."
Now I have a nice copy of this OUP (2012) edition of Finnegans Wake.
This is just a text=geek tangent.Note :: for reasons of copyright law, neither this OUP edition nor The Restored will be available in the USofA for many more years to come.
See also this OUP for an alternative titling and outline of the novel.Finnegans WakeSections and chapters are untitled.
(A very useful outline is provided in this Oxford Edition).
Pagination provide for both the traditional 628 page text and The Restored (R).
Pure Yawn lay low.”III.
