https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/313263.Dark_Fire
5 Redhead Temper StarsFirst read July 2012 Reread January 21, 2016Reread January 31, 2017*Spoilers* "Does anyone else besides me ever get the urge to throw things at you?" She sounded drowsy, not combative. Darius hunkered down beside her so he was at eye level with her. "I do not think so. If they do, they do not have the audacity to tell me."-Tempest and DariusDark Fire the 6th book in the Dark Series was amazing! This was Darius and Tempest's book. Darius is Desari's brother who we met in the
If they do, they do not have the audacity to tell me."-Tempest and DariusDark Fire the 6th book in the Dark Series was amazing!
This was Darius and Tempest's book.
Darius is Desari's brother who we met in the last book Dark Challenge.
Darius had a very sweet side, and he did give his lifemate a little time to get use to everything, which isn't something all Carpathian males do.
Now just this one time in your life, do what you're supposed to do and go to ground or whatever you call it."-Darius and Tempest
En esta entrega, el encuentro de la pareja protagonista, Tempest y Darius, no tarda ni una página en arrancar y, a partir de ahí, su relación se cuece a fuego muy muy lento, tanto que uno casi ni se da cuenta cómo van evolucionando sus sentimientos.Darius en ningún momento oculta su naturaleza, algo que Tempest asimila muy bien, ya que tiene la capacidad psíquica que caracteriza a las mujeres humanas destinadas a ser compañeras de los carpatianos.
Todo el proceso de compenetración entre ellos es muy dulce, romántico y apasionado, aunque algo accidentado, tanto por sus caracteres como por la Sociedad Secreta que sigue tras sus pasos.En resumen, me ha encantado, lo he disfrutado mucho y ha sido una lectura terriblemente adictiva que no me ha durado ni un suspiro.
I enjoyed this one, but Darius and Tempest are not my favorites. I didn't understand why they didn't ask Julian for more guidance and teaching of the Carpathian ways. They all seemed a little clueless because they didn't live near any of their own kind for so long. I also hated that poor Syndil got stuck with a manwhore for her lifemate. I felt really bad for her that she saw him with these OW for many, many years. She deserved someone better!
It started so promisingly, and I'd had a break from this series of several months, which helped.
But all too quickly the long-winded reflective introspective passages started up, the oh-so-stubborn lip-nibbling heroine got annoying, and the flowery love scenes got, well, flowery.
Lots of typos, lots of articles missing (especially "a", for some reason), and one of the things that really drives me nuts with Feehan is her inconsistencies.
Her arms are around his neck.
When her hands are behind his neck?
Another line says that his eyes turned black with hunger.
Except that his eyes are already black.
How do black eyes turn black?
In addition to being a big ol alpha, Darius is like the the other heroes in this series: extremely protective, affectionate, sexy and loving, all while being slightly scary at the same time!
Having read many Dark series books before, I don't really let it get to me because in the end, the heroines generally do what they want.
And by the end of every Dark series book I have read, the hero ends up wrapped around the heroine's finger, and have stopped using their powers to get what they want.
For all of my concerns about Darius from Desari's book, I really enjoyed him as a Hero.
I liked that he did not fight his feelings for Tempest even one bit.
Since, I liked them both, it made the story easy to enjoy.Tempest was slow to come around.
I liked her stubbornness for the first half of the book, but it got old thereafter.
Since Darius is an ancient and so powerful, but totally unschooled in the Carpathian world, it made things more interesting.Mini side rant that contains some spoilers not central to the story.
If you like action and adventure, this is a great book for that, because Tempest cannot seem to stay out of trouble, and then she'd have to get out of fixes or get rescued.
I loved the back and forth between Tempest and Darius, adding a light-hearted element to a story that easily could have been dreary due to the fact that Carpathians live a very desperate, edgy existence, staying one step ahead of their enemies, and hunting the vampires who were their kin who turned to the dark side.
I also enjoyed seeing Julian and Desari again, as well as Barack, Syndil, and Dayan.
As the chemistry between them sizzles, Tempest runs away multiple times only to have her mate chase her.I absolutely love how possessive yet caring Darius was about Tempest- and the way he took care of his family and responsibilities was just lovely.The additional story we get is of Syndil and Barack mating (YES!!), firstly I'm annoyed that they didn't get their own book, and though I know she has a tragic past- WHY WAS HE SLEEPING AROUND?!
I was excited and angry, both for them.Back to our main couple, Tempest was just likable but this time Darius stole the show.
This one I loved. It is by far my favorite in the Carpathians series, as of now. Tempest "Rusti" Trine is the most well-developed heroine we've seen so far this series. The heroines in the previous books have mainly been defined by their over-the-top compassion and gentleness. I found them kind of tedious and uninteresting. Tempest though is spunky and genuinely funny. The dialogue here was much better than in the previous books. Darius as well I found much less overdone than the other heroes. The chemistry between them was strong, with fewer of those excessive descriptions about their feelings.
Best so far in this series!!!When Darius, the leader of a small band of Carpathian musicians, first sees the new mechanic hired to work on the band's touring vehicles, he is astonished to see the red color of her hair.
He lives without color or emotion, and he feels himself nearing the point where he must either face the sun or turn into a vampire.This one I loved.
Tempest "Rusti" Trine is the most well-developed heroine we've seen so far this series.
I liked that he did not fight his feelings for Tempest even one bit.
I really liked Darius in the last book so was looking forward to his story.
Yes, I do like my heroine to be strong and stand up for herself but not to the point where she gets everyone killed or hurt and she just stands there blinking those "innocent" eyes of her and blames everyone except herself.
Don't listen to little ol' me saying no."Male:"You're so innocent and fragile that I want to make sure you're protected since you're so weak and you know you can't do it yourself.
I will kill to protect you but I won't listen to what you want or need because I know it all.
I loved Darius from the last book and I had my fingers crossed that his story would be a good one (had the same feeling for his brother Gregori's story).
Especially if you have ALREADY been beaten, mugged, raped, stabbed, shot, set on fire, kidnapped, hypnotized, drowned, bitten by dogs, lions, vampires, mosquitoes, ticks, and small children when you don't follow instructions.
(didn't happen in the book but you get my point).
I still LOVE the series none the less and scream whenever I feel something idiotic about to happen.
I also enjoyed the fact that they were not beleagured by vampires the entire book.
Good read.
I liked this, but was a bit disappointed compared to the previous book.What I liked:I liked both the hero and the heroine.
I thought Darius was fascinating in that overbearing Carpathian male way when I read the previous novel and wanted to read his story.
She was a likeable person with a very tragic past.What I didn't like:Too much repetitive sex.
After one or two scenes it becomes repetitive.
Personally, unless the sex is very inventive, I'm happy with a 'first time' and one other time and then let the rest be implied.Why-oh-why did we not get the reunion scene between Gregori and his long lost siblings Darius and Desiree?
I love all their books and the men in this family are to die for.
I love Darius courage and honor and his fear for his small family.
Tempest "Rusti" is such a hoot throughout this books.
She gives Darius no end of fits but she is very accepting of his and his family's difference.
I don't think that she can avoid trouble to save her life and in several cases almost dies from her bad luck.
I loved this whole story because you see Syndil come out of her shell after being attacked by one of the men in the family when he turns vampire.
Xray shows he calls her "honey" 71 times..
Telling telling telling...no showing, except of course for the boring as f-uck crap about the leopards.5.
The heroine talks some good shit about being independant but she acts like a whimp.
There is far more but I don't wish to waste more of my time.I returned for a refund.Not for me.Sorry no safety info available except that I personally felt like the hero was raping.
Oh and if you happen to like the child molester feel of a hero..
Taking the job as mechanic seemed a good fit for Tempest ‘Rusti’ Trine, she never really fit in anywhere else, but this group of traveling troubadours sounded like a perfect match right down to their love of animals.
The way Tempest accepted them and most of the things they could do was one thing, but would she be strong enough or be able to understand enough of the differences to make the choice that could put her life in danger.Book 6.….
This book was very predictable to me (I must be getting familiar with the writing style), but sometimes the expected is good.
Origanilly Read June 2008Ok, I know I say this everytime, but this is my favorite of the series so far!I really enjoyed Darius and Tempest's storyline (especially all of the stuff with the leopards.) After reading the last book, I was so happy to see that both Darius and Barack found their lifemates. I'm slao glad she told this story right after the last one - it really cleared things up for me.This book was great and I loved that Tempest could communicate telepathically with the animals!
So I'm thinking that Darius Daratrazanoff is a refugee from a Diana Palmer book! OMG he took macho to the extremes. I still hear him saying Honey and it is in such a condescending manner! But because he is related to the coolest Carpathians - the Daratrazanoff - he is bearable. I think that his lifemate wakes up some morning and think "WTF did I do to deserve this jerk!"
I have been wanting to continue on reading the Dark Series for a while now and this time it was the story of Darius.
Luckily, his character did evolve a little over the course of this story.Tempest was a scared little rabbit when it came to relationships of any sort.
Together her and Darius had to overcome their own obstacles and find a common ground, all while staying one step ahead of the radical organization that has been hunting Darius’s family from a previous book.
Check out my blog at The Genre Minx Book Reviews
Ella fue un poco frustrante pero estuvo bastante bien, algo que si le reniego a esta Saga es que no hablan de los personajes anteriores aunque sean familiares que pensante no quedaban son muy individualistas lo comprendo pero algo de apreciación familiar.
Tempest was without a job and down on her luck when she saw an ad for a musical group looking for a mechanic so she uses almost the last of her cash to get to the interview.Darius is an ancient Carpathian male; Carpathians are born vampires with abilities like shape shifting (to any form, even mist), magic spells and psychic powers.
Darius has been struggling with this darkness and the only thing that's kept him hanging on is his dedication to keeping his family safe.Desari (Darius' sister and heroine from book #5) put the ad for a mechanic to travel with the band with a special compulsion spell that would make sure the "right" person for the job would be the one to answer the ad.
When Darius, the leader of a small band of Carpathian musicians, first sees the new mechanic hired to work on the band's touring vehicles, he is astonished to see the red colour of her hair.
It has been centuries since he last saw colours or even felt emotions.
Tempest has always felt different, apart from others.
But from the moment his arms close around her, enveloping her in a sorcerer's spell, Darius seems to understand her unique gifts.I loved how different this book was and how much fight there was in the female lead this time, instead of sticking around and fighting with her lifemate Tempest runs away but only ends up in more sticky places.
45 estrellas. De todos los libros de esta saga que he leído, puede que este sea el más romantico de todos. Darius me ha conquistado el corazón, es capaz de todo por estar junto a Tempest. Disfruto muchísimo esta saga.
4´5 estrellas. De todos los libros de esta saga que he leído, puede que este sea el más romantico de todos. Darius me ha conquistado el corazón, es capaz de todo por estar junto a Tempest. Disfruto muchísimo esta saga.
3.5 stars
Another "are you kidding me with your bossing this heroine around like that?!?!" book. I wanted to do some ballbusting FOR the girl, sheesh.
Rara vez dejó un libro sin terminar pero simplemente no pude más.La historia sabe atraparte al principio aún estando llena de clichés, un inmortal que encuentra a su media naranja.El problema vino Cúando me di cuenta que lei la misma frase :" su mente no funciona como la del resto de los humanos", unas pautas 20 veces en las primeras 100 páginas. No me interesa continuar con nada de esta saga
As this book was a continuation from the previous one, we had all the length of the new one to concentrate on new things, and not so much time wasted on explaining things we already knew or getting characters introduced from the very start.
Darius has been a favorite from the moment he was introduced to the series: Strong, fierce and loyal.
It's the first time we see a couple truly caring for each other.While I still feel a wrongness in all the books of the series for not having a strong and true connection between them, this previous 2 installments did a much better job.
This is the first book in the series I can truly say I completely adored!!!
What a lovable heroine…..trouble follows her wherever she goes, she’s gutsy and funny.The story is so romantic…..the way Derius loves and cherishes Rusti….the lovemaking is sensual…hot…..I liked the way he didn’t try to force her but rather waited for her to make the choice to become his life mate.
Gentle and understanding…..quite different to the Carpathian males in the previous books.The band tour, the leopards who travel with the band, the other members…Syndil, Barrack..(can’t wait to read their story), the whole scenes of their concerts, travelling buses…..I really got into that……Looking forward to reading book 7
I feel that this book gave me the uniqueness that I have been looking for!
While Darius is the typical, arrogant, commanding Carpathian, he is nicely balanced with Tempest's red-headed temper and love of life.
I also felt like the reader gets a more realistic look at how it might be.
Rusti's claustrophobia and Darius's sudden terror for her give them more dimension than I think we have seen from some of the characters in the other books.
So much so, that I am scared to start the next one because I feel it may ruin the great light the books are in right now.
#6 of Carpathian series and Tempest meets Darius when she is hired to work on the Troubadour's tour bus. The Troubadour Band (I think they call themselves the Dark Troubadours) are a mini-series within the Carpathian Series. This is the second Troubadour/Carpathian book. The first Troubadour/Carpathian book is Dark Challenge (#5) with Julian and Desari (Darius' sister). I enjoyed this book!
