https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21412168-the-greatest-gift
A priceless importance due the film that inspired  NO MAN IS A FAILURE WHO HAS FRIENDS It’s not rare if you haven’t read this short story or even know about it. But certainly it could be quite rare if you haven’t watched, at least once, the film that inspired.The Greatest Gift, by Phillip Van Doren Stern, is the inspiration for the masterpiece directed by Frank Capra and performed by James Stewart, Donna Reed, Lionel Barrymore, Thomas Mitchell and Henry Travers. I am talking about......It’s a W

Please God, let me live again."Heartwarming and inspirational.As a collector of Christmas books, I am so glad that I found this one as it was the inspiration for the movie, "It's a Wonderful Life." I didn't realize until reading the "Afterword" that he had thought of this story while shaving one morning and then spent a couple of years polishing it up before presenting it to magazines that would not published it.
Since he couldn't get it published,he placed it in 200 Christmas cards that were then sent to family and friends.
He has even sent the card and story to his friend, Shirley Collier, who called him a few months later wanting him to turn it into a film.
Best known for its movie adaptation ‘It’s a Wonderful Life’, this really touching tale really highlights the importance of friendship and family.As George Bailey contemplates suicide, he’s visited by a guardian angle Clarence.Clarence reveals to George how many lives he has touched in the town of Bedford Falls.The perfect quick read for the festive period, it really is a wonderful story!
The basis of the Capra classic It's a Wonderful Life. The story was published in a magazine and is too short for the character development and world-building that the movie is so good at, and the supernatural element is much more pronounced and better-explained in the movie. The story is still well worth your time, and barely takes any to read.
I love Frank Capra's It a Wonderful Life and was happy to read the very short story that started it all.
The short story and the movie have differences but the basic story line and the meaning ring true.
It was interesting to read the story and see the difference, which any fan of the movie would truly enjoy.
The Afterword by Philip Can Doren Stern's daughter is interesting regarding the conception of the story and how it came to Capra.
Looking at the story as if the movie had not been made, it was a great little read with a big heart to it!Lux Radio Theater versionhttps://www.oldtimeradiodownloads.com...
I'm delighted beyond words right now! It's a Wonderful Life is one of my favourite old movies and I had no idea it was based on a short story. This is a truly magical tale, which I'm so glad to relieve. There is something so lovely and endearing in it. It may not be Christmas yet, but I don't see how having the Christmas spirit in you all year long is a bad thing. In fact, I hope to stumble upon such precious jewels more often....well, I really want to re-watch the movie now.
This was so cute! I read 4 different Christmas books this December and somehow this super short story was the best of them! It had everything I wanted from a Christmas story and it left me with a smile on my face. It was lovely :)
This is a wonderful, uplifting and beautiful christmas story.The classic movie  It's a wonderful life  is based on it.
The movie expands on George's backstory and his disappointment in life, his depression and despair.
The movie makes the strange man an angel, Clarence, who is trying to get his wings.
In the story we don't know who he is or even what his name is.To me the movie is pretty boring, long and slow paced, and the best part, when George gets to see a world where he wasn’t born, takes place in the last hour or 45 minutes.
A beautiful story with a beautiful message, the inspiration for the beautiful Christmas movie "It's a wonderful life"
Of the process of developing the movie that would become a beloved Christmas classic, Jimmy Stewart said, of his meeting with Capra, "The two main ideas were: one, no one is born to be a failure; and two, no one is poor who has friends."Capra wrote, "'It's a Wonderful Life' sums up my philosophy of film making.
And third, to dramatize the viability of the individual--as in the theme of the film itself.
I beseech you to look."If only we had more film makers like Capra today.
Wonderful short story that inspired the movie It's A Wonderful Life.
“You had the greatest gift of all conferred upon you-the gift of life, of being part of this world and taking a part in it. Yet you denied that gift.”“I thought I’d lost you. Oh, Mary, I thought I’d lost you!”The same idea of "It's a wonderful Life" but the events are a little bit different.A wonderful story .. Recommended to anyone.
★★★★★ A lot of people rate this book down because it is so much less than the movie. However, this is the original idea that was printed as a Christmas card and sent out to the author’s friends in 1943. Really, it is a short story. Neat to read the “afterword” by the author’s daughter, discussing Capra and Stewart.
What can you say about a classic? "It's a Wonderful Life" is a favorite movie that I have watched at Christmas time since forever. I just read the original story and was wowed at how a 24 page Christmas card could express such a special thought and then inspire a fantastic movie. This was definitely worth a read.
My love for the movie led me to purchase this book, as I was intrigued by the idea that it all started with a little Christmas card.
I have watched the interviews with the actors and director, all pointing toward the original story.
After reading this book, I can see why it was so difficult to translate the classic Christmas card into a classic movie.
But if you are a true buff, you will appreciate this little nugget on your shelf to refer to when you need the story again but don't have the time for the movie.
How can you not think about your life and your family after reading this book? This isn't a very Christmasy story, it's not about Santa and all that. But in a way, it's a very holiday season kind of story, especially if you consider how many people commit suicide during the Holiday season. I agree when they say this is a universal plot because even if you have never considered suicide, I'm positive you have stopped to wonder about your place in the world or even if you existent is of any importance.
The message was nice and the story was easy to follow and interesting, but it lacked dramatic build-up. I hope the movie offers more. I can't wait to watch it.
It is a story of a man who had lost all hope for his life and wished that he’d never been born. Little did he know that his wish would be granted on a fateful Christmas Eve. This book was first drafted in 1938 and published in 1943 and is still applicable today. Loved the story, it’s the shortest book I have read till date I think and I will hold onto this story for years to come. Hopefully, I would remember the underlying message in this book when I find myself standing at the bridge (emotionally).
Like the movie it inspired (It's a Wonderful Life), this is simply a wonderful Christmas classic. It's a short story but in this edition illustrated really well. This is both literature at its best and an inspirational read. Even if you saw the movie, it's worth the read; as always, despite Capra and Stewart, the book is always better than the movie.
I listened to the audiobook and it tells the short story that inspired the movie Its a Wonderful Life. The afterward is written by the authors daughter and tells how the story her father wrote came to be a movie. It also goes on to tell how the movie has inspired so many and continues to have an impact today. I found it an interesting read!
A nice, short little Christmas story. I had hoped it might shed light on some weird quirks of the film ("it's a wonderful life") but no dice. Still, it's a great example of how a short, compact tale can pack a punch, particularly how it begins.
Wrong on both counts it turns, but more on that in a bit.If by chance you're not familiar with this story, it's a short little tale about a one Mr. George Pratt (changed to Bailey in Capra's film version).
He then sent these out to friends and family as a unique kind of Christmas card that year!A studio exec at RKO Pictures got ahold of a copy.
:-S Also changed: the idea of "spinster librarian Mary" from the film was actually "Mary marries one of George's oldest & dearest friends" in the book :-P Mean Old Man Potter, the nasty, manipulative banker that runs Bedford Falls?
But I was affected by the impression of watching the film based on it "It's a wonderful life".
Each form has its own strength and beauty but when we already had an image (film) in mind, we usually compare and predict events in the book (which we read later) with the film rather than enjoying it entirely.
By contrast, if we read a book first, we immerse ourselves in the world of book and imagine everything, then when we see how people adapt it into a film, we enjoy a lively version by another creative mind (film crews).
Strategy #1: Questioning-In The Greatest Gift at the beginning of the story a question I've had is why is he leaning over the bridge?
Strategy #2: Predicting: -At the bottom of page one I was predicting that George was having a rough life in whatever he does and he was about to jump off that bridge.Strategy #3: Connection:-If I have never been born, my friend lucy's life would be so different because we grew up together.
The little things like keeping the bushes trimmed, running a bank, and even saving his brother's life made a huge impact and made people happy.Strategy #5: Evaluate-I loved this short story.
The moral of the story is to enjoy the little things.
Did the man who came up to him jump off the bridge before?
At the bottom of page one I was predicting that George was thinking about suicide - by jumping off the bridge.
When George says he wishes he had never been born; it made me think about how life would be different if I had never been born.
:)The lesson that George seems to be learning is his importance, his purpose.I liked this story because it made me reflect on my own decisions.
I know it's hard to remember what you have but I think this story really dawns some light on the subject.
Having seen the movie "It's A Wonderful Life" (which is based on this book) so many times before reading the original story, I actually like it better than the book.
But oh, to have been the one who dreamed up this classic tale - a lesson in the value in a single life, and the difference it can really make in the world...
I am glad you decided to write and re-write, and eventually send this story out in a Christmas card - and I'm equally as glad that Frank Capra and Jimmy Stewart were equally as passionate about it.
how it is currently...)A quick read, and definitely recommended for all lovers of the movie!
First published in 1944, this story was originally sent out as a family Christmas card. Frank Capra got wind of it when he returned from WWII, and the movie he made from it -- It's a Wonderful Life with Jimmy Stewart -- was not a box office hit. Yet it's become a Christmas classic and is beloved by millions. Totally worth a quick read to remember what's truly worthwhile.
If you've seen the movie "It's A Wonderful Life", then there's nothing new here for you. However, the afterword by Marguerite Stern Robinson (the author's daughter) and the illustrations by Scott McKowan makes the recent publication of this short story well worth a look.It was interesting to read the story in it's original form, and learn how it came into being.
With this book being the basis for my favorite movie, "It's a Wonderful Life," I just had to read it. It is a very good story in its own right. The afterword is too long but the story and its messages are (pun intended) wonderful.
A nice little story - not great, but okay. Thank Goodness for Capra's vision. The movie took this interesting idea and developed it into a well-constructed, heart-warming piece of Americana, as well as making film history.
