https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11298.A_Wild_Sheep_Chase
Reading Murakami is like experiencing someone else's dream. Trying to review Murakami is like trying to remember your own -- scattered events, confusing narrative lapses, inexplicable elements, petrified whale penises. A series of images:               And then you wake up. And wonder what that was all about.
I believe that the mythical sheep can be seen as either "the meaning of life," which sounds cliche but bear with me, or, "what happens when we lose sight of the true meaning of life".Our main character (let's call him Max for discussion's sake) finds himself at the end of his marriage.
What he ended up doing was forsaking the people and life that cared about him, that gave his existence meaning, and was overtaken by the mythical sheep.
Hitsuji o meguru boken = A Wild Sheep Chase (The Rat, #3), Haruki MurakamiThis quasi-detective tale follows an unnamed, chain-smoking narrator and his adventures in Tokyo and Hokkaido in 1978. The story begins when the recently divorced protagonist, an advertisement executive, publishes a photo of a pastoral scene sent to him in a confessional letter by his long lost friend, 'The Rat.' He is contacted by a mysterious man representing 'The Boss,' a central force behind Japan's political and econo
As he discovers that he is chasing an unknowable power that has been exerting its influence for decades, he encounters figures from his own past, unusual characters, and those who have encountered the sheep before.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز پنجم ماه فوریه سال 2017 میلادیعنوان: تعقیب گوسفند وحشی - کتاب 3 - سری موش صحرایی (رت)؛ نویسنده: هاروکی موراکامی؛ مترجم: مهدی غبرایی؛ تهران، نیکونشر، 1392؛ در 360 ص؛ شابک: 9789647253628؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان ژاپنی سده 20 ممتن پشت جلد: در تعقیب گوسفند وحشی (1989) شخصیت اصلی و راوی، وجود میانمایه‌ ای دارد.
Though it can be enjoyed simply as a fable at its face-value, just a little thought reveals a multi-layered allegory.
At the same time, the protagonist's sheep chase also ends up being a search for his own identity, his emotions and meaning of his existence.
For a multi-layered story, the writing is deceptively simple.
More than the plot, it is the little things about Murakami's writing which make this book memorable.
And Murakami's sense of humor is so cute!(PS: If I happen to see a sheep during the next few days, it might creep me out a little.
My first Murakami and I really enjoyed it.
A play on the old saying ‘a wild goose chase', I'm afraid this book reads more like another old saying, ‘a complete waste of time’.
Norwegian WoodAlthough the order of the first three is interchangeable, depending on my prevailing mood.I should have been forewarned regarding this offering as I’d previously, randomly, read Dance, Dance, Dance which I found incomprehensible.
They’re both part of the mini-series of ‘Rat’ books Murakami penned through the 80’s and 90’s and AWSC is the precursor to DDD.
I was expecting it to be a bit more weird and surreal than it ended up being, but near the end there it definitely got...
I sort of lost interest a bit near the end, but all in all I think this was a great book.Something I really liked is how every character is nameless, at least their real names are never mentioned.
This book wasn't really about the characters or the plot so much, which sounds really weird and is hard to explain, but I think this wacky style for writing a book just somehow works perfectly for Murakami.
Who needs it?”This is the first book Murakami wrote as a full-time novelist, and his third overall.
The third book in the Rat Trilogy, the story revolves around a strange mystery surrounding an enigmatic sheep in Hokkaido, and how the narrator starts on an adventure to find something that even he can't grasp properly.
Here, Murakami touches up on themes like right-wing politics in Japan, and ear fetish.
Take a dip into this fast-paced mystery with a strange surrealistic undertone, as we smoke Seven Stars and enjoy the dull, cold weather of Sapporo, searching for a long-lost friend.
H.Murakami yazdıkları Japonya ile iliştirilebilecek son Japon yazar.
yazarlar okuyarak gerçek Japon Edebiyatı ile tanışabilirsiniz.Bunu geçersem eğer Yaban Koyununun İzinde, en rahat okunan Murakami kitaplarından bir tanesi ve bence başlangıç için en uygun olanı.
Salinger, Dostoyevski, Tolstoy, Hardy, Mo Yan, Palahniuk gibi bazı isimler farklı dönemlerde, farklı stillerde yazmış olsalar bile en iyi becerdikleri şey diyalog ile hikaye ilerletmeleridir.
Sürekli olarak insan Murakami'nin ne denli geniş bir hayalgücü olduğunu idrak ediyor.
Eğer yazarın bir matematiği varsa bu çok ileri düzey bir şey olmalı diye düşünüyorum.Onun dışında ne desem boş, Murakami ne kefil olup okuyun diyebileceğim bir yazar, ne de asla okumayın diyip kendimce lanetleyebileceğim bir yazar.
Philosophical detours into entymology, time and space, and the nature of what it means to have arrived just too late abound, and they're actually fun to think about (too much philosophical jargon really gets me going).
One of my favorite themes was the notion of silence, especially one that follows some kind of dramatic action.
Several times throughout the novel the protagonist finds himself on a room, both alone and with other people, where different kinds of silence rest on things.
It's little things in this book.
And things that are not said.
And I'm probably going to read others.
Pass the peas, please.The confusion Pynchon brought was similar to the confusion from Murakami for me, but I tried to watch for all those double-meaning grown-up things for this book.
With the main character and mysterious Boss in a tightly controlled advertising industry, sheep everywhere, a girlfriend with special ears, and a quest to find the meaning of a certain photo, I think it may be something about control of information and loss of individual will that comes with lack of accurate facts?
While I can't say I "really liked it" in the "will re-read one day" sense, I appreciated the richness of the ideas and language offered.
Although there is a mystery that drives the plot, I would hesitate to say that is the focus of the book, so I didn't feel like I lost tension or details.
Murakami seems to work best for me when savored in little bites with the opportunity to linger over phrasing, rather than reading for plot or conflict resolution.
I also couldn't escape the nagging feeling that I was missing considerable subtext, as I know almost nothing about Japanese history, or even culture.
Nei romanzi del grande scrittore giapponese questo aspetto semplicemente non c'è: il ritmo è lento e cadenzato, sono pagine di atmosfere, flussi di pensieri e sensazioni, molto più che di azioni ed eventi.
Ma questo "Nel segno della pecora" ne è la naturale premessa (lo è, ovviamente, anche di altri romanzi di Murakami come "Dance dance dance", in cui tra l'altro compare di nuovo il bellissimo personaggio dell'uomo pecora).E' un libro profondamente maschile, nell'ambientazione e nella scelta del protagonista.
Now that I've read A Wild Sheep Chase again, I don't think there's any need to change anything.
The pragmatistic part, that interprets what you read in a matter-of-fact way, and the emotional part that sort of does so in a more inner and abstract fashion that you can't really put your finger on.
These elements really hit home and are the main reason Murakami gets so much praise from me.Trying to rationalize everything you read in this book won't work, so don't waste your time.
You should rather let your inner eye read this amazing story about sheep.
Encima esas partes no están dedicadas a las reflexiones tan características de Murakami, sino que consisten en un seguimiento tedioso de actividades anodinas del protagonista.
Otra cosa que no me gustó fue que los personajes de las dos entregas anteriores de esta saga hayan cambiado tanto.
No lograron captar mi interés como en Pinball, 1973 y Escucha la canción del viento.El final considero que salvó un poco a La caza del carnero salvaje.
Pero solo un poco.
En suma, me gustó, y, junto con la prosa de Murakami, es la razón por que le doy dos estrellas a este libro.
I wish I could have written about Murakami's A Wild Sheep Chase here when I'd read it.
Murakami has written some of my favorite narrarators I've ever read, the kinds of guys that remind me of best friends (or friends I would have, if I ever met people like that).
Those are the strong feelings in my memory gut, and why I'd not hesitate to name A Wild Sheep chase as one of my favorite books.
It made me feel something outside of the book, a moving for something...The sequel Dance, Dance, Dance was not as good to me as A Wild Sheep Chase.
All you really need to know is our main character is forced to go chase a non-existent sheep out in the cold country.
He gets trapped on a mountain, in a creepy cabin, all alone, and is occasionally visited by a sheep-man.There you go.Murakami's imagery is rich and the meaning of his works heavy and grey, like a cloud hanging right over your head while the sun shines everywhere else.
You're never completely positive that the main character hasn't lost his mind.
Near the end of the book you're not even completely positive that you haven't lost your mind.
It comes out so naturally, so easily."An approach like that means there is plenty of opportunity to riff on a theme, to digress, to take sudden turns for no apparent reason, to go back and forwards.In fact, to read this book feels rather like being in someone’s head as they are dreaming.
There’s a man in a sheep costume.
Further evidence of the dream-like nature of the book.
Although when someone is instructed to connect the green wire to the green wire and the red wire to the red wire, you do sort of know where that particular action is going to lead.It's the sort of genre bending/mixing that Murakami does like no one else.
برخلاف تصور خودم، کتاب دو روز زودتر تموم شد، از اون دست کتاب هایی هست که 150 صفحه آخرش اجتناب ناپذیر
Jedinu stvar koju Murakamiju nikada neću oprostiti je što više voli mačke od pasa.
Ova knjiga je...
mnogo knjiga.
Na šta se svodi, koja je ta jedna tema koja čini srž romana?
Čini se potera za identitetom, ali opet nešto tu škripi.
Šta još može biti?
Pojma nemam.
Niti želim da znam, ako mogu iskreno.
Imam nagoveštaj, jeste, povremeno nazrem deliće, pa možda bih čak mogao i da napišem i kratku (i šturu) interpretaciju ovog iznad zanimljivog štiva.
Ali neću.
Ovako je daleko zabavnije, ostaviti te detalje da se krčkaju i stvaraju sopstveni život, sopstveni san, jer to je ova knjiga na kraju.
Jedan luckasti, delirični, nezaboravni san.5
Książka uspokajająca, jak senRealizm magiczny - im dalej tym dziwniej, ale ja to lubię :)Zastanawiam się jakie powiązanie i wpływ na zrozumienie filozofii Murakamiego mają inne tomy cyklu Szczura…No i ten nieokreślony niedosyt, czyli to samo, co czułem po przeczytaniu Sputnika.
یکی از عجیب ترین و پیچیده ترین کتاب هایی بود که تابحال خوندم.بعد از تموم شدنش کلی و بحث و تحلیل هایی
Jau labai seniai girdžiu pagyras šiam japonų rašytojui, bet tik visai visai neseniai ryžausi pati patikrinti, kas gi čia tokio ypatingo.
Po vieno žmogaus žinutės, kad po "Avies medžioklės" arba pradėsiu dievinti, arba nekęsti Murakami, liko tik griebti ją ir skaityti.
Net buvo sunku apibūdinti, kas konkrečiai taip kūrinyje patinka.
Manau, reikia paskaityti nors truputį Murakami kūrybos ir, tikiu, patys pajusite, ką turiu omenyje.Greitai skaitėsi, kas buvo itin gerai, kai rasti laiko knygoms pastaruoju metu pasidarė tikrai nelengva.Po "Avies medžioklė" dar tikrai ne vieną šio rašytojo knygą skaitysiu, jau dairausi, kurią griebsiu sekančią.
I read this in 2007?
and was able to get all the way through the book without rolling my eyes so hard I could see my brain.
The plot kept me moving briskly from event to event, the characters were flat and obnoxious as usual.I'll never voluntarily pick up a Murakami book again, but if you're looking for one to start with, I'd say do it here.
It's in no way necessary to have read others in this series, loosely defined, though it's always possible I simply missed maaaaaaaarvelous enrichments of my entertainment by not having read them.But I really doubt it.
And by page 42, the beginning of a “wild adventure” was imminent - the wild sheep chase was about to begin.Plot: The chain-smoking, freshly divorced protagonist with a nihilistic streak has unknowingly attracted the attention of some very powerful people.
The protagonist is then given a month to find that special sheep.
The kind of tranquil snow that makes you close your eyes, gently.” (pg 270) Or the melting of snow after which the “birds sang as if set free.”(pg 259)-the texture and quality of silence: “...silence that rolled like oil into every corner.”  (pg 258) “Particles of silence floated about the room for the longest time.” (pg 186)-loneliness: “Loneliness wasn’t such a bad feeling.
That’s the worm’s eye view of its universe.” (pg 67)-----------------------------------------------------------------------
There’s something extremely comforting for me, knowing I’m in the hands of a masterful technician of the written word like Murakami.
He quotes Murakami, who for the first time in his career, had researched his subject, traveling Japan, immersing himself in all things sheep (so to speak):'As I wrote A Wild Sheep Chase I came to feel strongly that a story, a monogatari, is not something you create.
What’s more, we just learnt the Japanese word for story.There are just so many things that I’m captivated by in Murakami’s books - in this novel as much as his others that I’ve read - that I don’t know where to begin.
Gal tai gali būti net gi meilės istorija ar istorijos (tik nežinia meilė labiau kam, ar merginai ar aviai :))Ko tik šioje knygoje nėra.
Čia galima rasti indėniškų susitapatinimų su gyvūnu, vidinių kovų ieškant savęs, neįtikėtini dalykai čia pateikiami tai paprastai ir kasdieniškai, kad noriu-nenoriu šią knygą pradedu laikyti magišku realizmu :DVisa istorija prasideda labai realiai ir jau pažįstamu, Murakamišku stiliumi: Pagr.
Kiekvienas mes ieškome savo avies ;)Aplamai ši knyga yra perpildyta avimis:žmogus avisprofesorius avis ir žinoma paprastos avytės laukuose (beje gal čia slepiasi ir jūsų gyvenimo avis?
Jo pasikeitimas vyksta pamažu ir kai jau Gyvenimo avis yra tiesiog ranka pasiekiama - viskas pasisuka 360 laipsnių kampu.
I wasn't all that impressed with this book.
I love Murakami and have read three other books by him.
The ideas in this book are good and some of them kept me thinking and even inspired me to write about them, but the themes took over the book and the plot and characters suffered.
Whta I did really like about it and this can be said of all his writing is that the story and characters don't seem to take place in any reality.
For this I will read more by him but never again The Wild Sheep Chase.
فقط تمامش کردم که کلکسیون موراکامی را تکمیل کنم.
ترجمه درخشان و زنده غبرایی بیشتر جذبم کرد تا داستان...شاید اگر پشت هم نمی خواندم دستش و موتیوها برایم رو نمی شد...
هتل ها و کتاب های قدیمیاتود خوبی بوده برای کافکا در کرانه...ولی شاید نباید چاپ می شدهپخته و پرورده همه اینها در کافکا در کرانه هست و واضح است.
این داستان سوررئال نیست بی سر و ته است.
نویسنده هر جا طرحش کم آورده از عناصر جادویی و ماورایی استفاده کرده...به هر حال به قول ادبیاتی ها فقط برای فهم سیر تطور موراکامی ارزش دارد و لاغیر.
So successful that I actually run out of Murakami.So for some time now I was feeling like rereading some of his novels, especially A Wild Sheep Chase and was a bit afraid of disappointment that might come together with it.
Have you seen The Murakami Bingo by Grant Snider?
Murakami bakes his cakes with same elements every time, let's be honest here.
But with buddy reads encouragement (thank you Orient!), trembling hands and fainting heart (hehe, yeah sure) I started turning pages...And I found out that while The Bingo is damn RIGHT yet AGAIN, I enjoyed the novel as much as I did the first time.
