https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/971832.The_Long_Divorce
Go with me like good angels to my end,And as the long divorce of steel falls on me,Make of your prayers one sweet sacrifice,And lift my soul to heaven.
(Shakespeare: Henry VIII 2.1.92-95)These lines, spoken by Buckingham just before his execution, provide Edmund Crispin with the title for one of the best of the Gervase Fen mysteries.Fen comes to the village of Cotten Abbas in the guise of Mr Datchery to investigate a series of anonymous letters.
A "steel" plays a crucial part in the story.
In the play "long divorce of steel" refers to Buckingham's execution and foreshadows Henry VIII's divorce from Katherine of Aragon.
****.In the village of Cotton Abbas, an epidemic of scandalous letters sent to the local villagers threatens to bring down the usually harmonious nature of its village life.
All this time, we are waiting for the arrival of Gervaise Fen. This is an Edmund Crispin novel after all.
It all works out after all after a clever analysis of all the clues by Datchery-Walker and his close associate Fen. This is a typical Crispin novel, full of misleading clues and peopled by characters of high interest to the reader.
Also, as is typical of Crispin, you should have your dictionary close at hand.
These are British mysteries with Oxford don Gervase Fen as the detective.
For example, Crispin might have a real person stroll by as the characters take note: "There goes C.
S. Lewis," remarks Gervase Fen as he glances out the window of the Eagle and Child (Bird and Baby, where the Inklings used to meet) in Oxford.
Or, Crispin will refer to another characters in somebody else's mystery novels as living in his fictional world: Gervase sometimes refers to Dr. Gideon Fell, who is John Dickson Carr's fictional detective (modeled on the real-life G.
In this entertaining story of anonymous letters and murder Gervase Fen is undercover in the village of Cotton Abbas asking questions and generally finding his way into everything which is going on. In his inimitable fashion he soon uncovers all the villagers' secrets, the author of the letters and the murderer.This is a light hearted story with plenty of amusing incidents and some marvellous characters including the cat, Lavender, who chases Martians and destroys everything in his way. Though the book s part of a series it can be read as a standalone novel
It calls for Gervase Fen. All books by Edmund Crispin (aka Bruce Montgomery) do.Where is he?You may figure out the answer to this question sooner than I did.
Obvious suspects are never the true culprits in British crime novels.Reading Gervase Fen stories is like eating candy.
I ordered "The Long Divorce" three times via interlibrary loan before I got it, and even then it took much longer than usual.
I think they'd be the perfect stories for the BBC to adopt into a mystery series, and once PBS got hold of it, the people who watch British mysteries on PBS -- you know who you are -- would demand the books, and they'd be easy to find.
This mystery novel is set in the UK in 1950.
It is old fashioned, not because of that setting, but because there's no real violence, no car chases, no foul language, but just a puzzle of a mystery.
It turns out I've become habituated to the action hero type of modern mystery (which usually isn't much of a mystery at all) and I didn't realize how much I miss the puzzle mystery genre until reading this fine book.
All of which is a roundabout way of saying that is it refreshing to read a novel that occasionally demands an open dictionary (or at least a dictionary app).
As much as I really liked 'The Moving Toyshop' for the playful way with the story and characters, 'The Long Divorce' has far less engaging characters and story.
I can still clearly recall many parts of 'the Moving Toyshop' and can hardly recall much of 'The Long Divorce'.
The characters are also illustrated well but with less spark than in 'The Moving Toyshop.
There is a significant and needless plot device used, it seems, because there is little engaging in this book.
The writer was so busy setting up to reveal the plot device that certain characters and situations got washed out.Bottom Line: I recommend this book.

Very good mystery - ignore the blurb on the back of the book, as it is completely misleading!
Although I managed to work out parts of the solution, I couldn't see how it all went together.
Fen is incognito for the majority of the book, although for readers familiar with him it was easy to spot who he was on first appearance.
Visiting the village of Cotten Abbas to investigate a spate of nasty anonymous letters, he is confronted with a suicide and then a murder within days of his arrival.
Are these all linked, or has someone taken advantage of the situation to commit a murder (or two)?
Have just re-read this after many years and was thoroughly justified in picking it up again.
I just love this man's style of writing.
Such wonderful prose with wit and humour.
Fen is a great character and although he doesn't feature all that much in this story, his presence is important at the end.
There are plenty of clues and it wasn't difficult to figure out who did what but that didn't detract from my enjoyment at all.If you want to read enjoyable British crime stories written in the most exquisite English then Edmund Crispin is your man.
Deliciously humorous village life and a sympathetic treatment of female characters. I was grateful that Crispin exposed Fen's incognito immediately to readers, because his deprecatory humor is a lot of the fun.
Loved this - with the only caveat hat. Got a bit muddled 2 thirds of the way through. There is a lot of clever humour in this book and the ending was entirely satisfactory my good chap. A lot of that in it too - great period stuff

Another Gervase Fen mystery, although this time he's theoretically undercover - or at least going by an alias - as he investigates a series of poison pen letters + murder in a picturesque village. It took me a while for me to get into it and for the characters to grow on me, but it/they did eventually. And really, "a while" is a relative term, since the books read so quickly once they get going. And yes, as twisty as I've come to expect, although not quite as ha ha ha. Really enjoyable, though.
It was such a delight to come upon this wonderful classic British mystery from 1950 and remember why they were so popular. The sleuth was too clever for us mere mortals---this was not a book where the clues were likely to be unraveled by the reader (although SOME people might do so. If so, then they have REALLY convoluted minds!), but Fen made it all seem logical.Enjoyable characters and no graphic nastiness. Thoroughly entertaining.PS BUT I DO NOT UNDERSTAND THE TITLE???? CAN ANYONE HELP???
This book sat on my bookshelf forever without me touching it because I thought it was about a long divorce (boring!) However, there was nothing about any divorce in it and it turned out to be a cute mystery/romance. After reading it I searched for a clue to the title, and on the title page it says "The long divorce of steel" from Henry VIII, Act 2, scene 1, which is where someone gets killed... so the title is a bit abstract, but the book is worth reading.
Love Edmund Crispin - he writes so well but his main character - Fen - is quite sarky and feisty which is great, although he can be stern and angry when he wants. This book romps along happily with great descriptions of the exciting scenes with a love interest as well for good measure. I first read most of the Fen books a long time ago so it's good to come back to them now.
Just recently discovered the Gervase Fen series and I adore it. It's a perfect example of Golden Age detective fiction and reminds me a lot of my beloved Christie. The novel is short so many of the supporting characters aren't as fleshed out as I'd like but the mystery is intriguing and I enjoyed the novelty of the author's final solution.
This 1950s mystery was lent to me by a serious mystery reading family. It was very well written with great descriptions and vocabulary. The ending seems inevitable until it turns out it isn't at all. Very much enjoyed it.
Literate mysteriesCharming cozy mystery with a complicated but believable solution: add humor and a quaint English town and it would take a real curmudgeon to ask for more. Perfect as far as I'm concerned.
Nice setting - again - for this Fen book. I remember long walks in the English countryside- most evocative. the near suicide at bridge over a scenic river. It's all about poison pen letters and the local watering hole and an attractive gal coming out of her shell.
The Gervase Fen mysteries are always enjoyable. This one was peopled with excellent characters and while the plot which included poisoned pen letters seemed trite, the way in which it was handled was original and in the end quite entertaining.
Fen spends much of his time incognito, but if you pay close attention to what he's doing you'll be directed as to who is doing what! Probably the most well-flushed out writing of various characters of all his books.As usual well done, though I do miss Fen's antics which fill other books.
This was a short and enjoyable British mystery involving anonymous letters and a couple of murders. No divorce (the title refers to a line in Shakespeare's Henry VIII).
Sub-genre: Poison Pen Letters. Tone like Christie's The Moving Finger. Enjoyed very much.
Not my favourite Fen mystery, but a good one all the same!
Just discovered Crispin's Gervase Fen and am inordinately pleased about it.
Love the Crispin books! (This one, 1951).
lavender
A village is plagued by anonymous letters.
