https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1628739.The_Philosophy_of_Hegel
While for Kant the Idea was approached, by never attained, primarily by epistemological considerations, for Hegel the approach was, as he represented it in this book, described by a constructive appropriation of the history of ideas.
That's why I bought and read Stace, the first real (I don't count Kojeve) commentator on Hegel that I was to study.
Still, Stace was excellently clear and concise.On reflection, I see a clear "progress" from Kant through Hegel to Marx.
One can also be a Marxist by simply buying into his method.I started reading Stace at a bowling alley in or near Stevensville, Michigan, accompanied by the equally studious Michael Miley.
این کتاب که فلسفه هگل رو با نظر به 'منطق' و 'دایره المعارف' شرح میده، شرح خیلی خوبی در میان شرح های فلسفه هگل نیست، ولی برای کسی که بالذات هگلیه واقعیت ذاتش رو آشکار می کنه: به بیان ساده، آدم با خوندنش می فهمه که هگلیه یا نه! همین که فهمید هگلیه باید این کتاب رو بذاره یه گوشه و بره سراغ شرح های بهتر یا اگه خیلی ذهن خفنی داشت بره سراغ خود هگل.
وهى متحققة بالفعل ولكن تحققها فى نفس الوقت لم يكتمل بعد فمثلا قد نرى ان الخير متحققا فى الكون فى كل لحظة بالنظر الى الكون ككل او وحدة ولكن فكرة الخير تتضمن فكرة الشر بالضرورة وهى فكرة لها وجود فعلى ولذلك قد نرى ان فكرة الخير او الخير المطلق لم تكتمل بعد ولكن هذه هى النظرة الشعبية لفكرة الخير لانها جزئية وتجريبية اى مباشرة وتخاطب الفهم اما العقل المفكر فيرى كلا وجهتى النظر .اما العقل الجدلى فإنه يوحد بين الفكرتين .ان الافكار المنطقية المتولدة عن سير الجدل هى فى الاساس مجرد افكار تولد بعضها بعضا وهو ما يؤكده هيجل مراراً .
Only a philosopher could enjoy Hegel's wildly speculative Idea, though it has its rewards.
علی رغم فحشهایی که قاره ایها میدهند کتاب بسیار دقیقی است برای فهم هگل
It is clear. The arguments within Hegel's system are explicified by the author. I am not sure whether the interpretation is correct, but at least the product is readable and insightful. If Hegel's system can be divided into three parts, i.e., logic, natural and spiritual, I like the logic part but I don't like the natural and spiritual parts. So, I enjoy the first 1/3 part of this book but not the other 2/3.
Wow! Really clear and systematic working through of Hegel's deductions. I feel like I'm finally catching on to something of his thought or at least the fairly standard interpretation of Hegel's work. I'd give five stars to the experience during the read of about twenty books I've read prior retroactively taking on a different/richer meaning.
Excellent summary of Hegel's system
