https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1641345.Spirits_in_Bondage
It was a rainy, gloomy day and Lewis's poetry did nothing to alleviate that atmosphere.I am not really qualified to assess the success of his art, not being well-versed in poetry (ha).
But his pre-conversion struggle with God and evil is something that many can relate to.
It struck me that it took 40 poems in his cycle to be free-but his freedom was found in death.
I wondered if Lewis did this on purpose?
Maybe it was a defiant stance against the idea that freedom could be found anywhere other than death?
It is also interesting that Lewis converted after this struggle.
Horrific. Pre-Christian poetry from a 19 year old Lewis. Shattering.
Wow, you say, Lewis wrote poetry.Well, techincally he did. Trust me, you really don't want to read these. I mean there is a reason no one talks about Lewis the poet.
It's good to see that even accomplished authors like CS Lewis went through that phase where they wrote absolutely rotten poetry. Gives the rest of us rotten poets hope. Or delusions of adequacy.
The first major published work by C.S. Lewis. Here we see many of the issues he would struggle with in his better known works in embryotic form.
Nonetheless, this cycle of lyrics told a beautiful tale in a rhyme scheme and language only Lewis is capable of.
Whether or not you're religious, i do believe that this cycle of lyrics has something to offer you.
Lewis's voice and insights on humanity touch and speak to each person differently, whether or not you share his faith.
Personally, i am religious, yet i find the struggle with religion discussed in these poems insightful, deep, and when it comes down to it, quite beautiful.
So follow Lewis in his struggle and anger against God or just follow his wit as he tells you a story.
This small book of 40 poems practically derailed my C.S. Lewis Reading Project.
Also of great help was reading Alan Jacobs' comments about Spirits in Bondage in his book The Narnian.
Finally, my reading of the poems was aided by reading John Toland's No Man's Land about the final year of The Great War. A few comments about specific poems:XII De Profundis - The Latin refers to the opening line of Psalm 130 (one of my favorites): Out of the deep I cry.
I thought it was going to be more thought provoking theology from Lewis, it wasn't.
It was a little book of poetry.
I haven't read any poetry since college.
I'd forgotten how poetry can wring you dry and fill you up again.
When I read poetry I actually do 'hear' it.
It's one of the only things I 'hear' while reading, and it's not my own voice which is slightly weird.
I think one of the reason I like these poems is that they are so simple.
These are simple and heart piercing, like Robert Frost or Emily Dickinson.
Poetry by a searching soul...a couple gems contained therein.
This book along with C.S. Lewis's Sprits in Bondage ought to be required reading for every sheltered Christian who has never experienced the horrors of life at depth.
Oh, thou clear spirit, of thy fire thou madest me, and like a true child of fire, I breathe it back to thee.”I.
"Can it be true, as the wise men tell, That you are a mask of God as well, "And, as in us, so in you no less Speaks the eternal Loveliness, "And words of the lips that all things know Among the thoughts of a donkey go?
All things he shall fulfill,And O, my poor Despoina, do you think he ever hearsThe wail of hearts he has broken, the sound of human ill?He cares not for our virtues, our little hopes and fears,And how could it all go on, love, if he knew of laughter and tears?"=========="Come let us curse our Master ere we die,For all our hopes in endless ruin lie.The good is dead.
A short but enjoyable collection of poems from Lewis's pre-Christian years during World War I.
His poetry really showcases the conflict within his own mind between his atheistic rationalism and his romanticism, between a worldview that reacts cynically to all the pain and suffering in the world and a worldview that yearns for something beyond this world.
An interesting and fun read for sure.
Edit: I waffled between 3 and 4 stars but finally went with four due to the fact that, even though it’s short, the enjoyment I got from reading through these poems far outweighed the size of the collection.
Grim stuff, this pre-conversion poetry, but well-structured nonetheless. "Dungeon Grates" is a shining light in the middle of it, as is "Oxford." "In Praise of Solid People" has been edited in my mind to "In Praise of Hobbits" because it honestly sounds like his own take on the Professor's creation.
This was...interesting.Spirits in Bondage was written by a young C.S. Lewis prior to his conversion to Christianity.
It's depressing because, as an unbeliever, Lewis blamed God for evil, and didn't acknowledge God for good.
But it's also hopeful because in it, Lewis pursued joy, and we know that true joy can only be found in Jesus.
And because He did, all our sorrows will be turned to joy.I wouldn't say this is a must read, unless you just really like C.S. Lewis, and want to take a peak at how he thought prior to becoming a Christian.
3.5/5 stars. I’ve never read C.S. Lewis before so this was a lovely surprise. His style, rhyme, non-cliché nature imagery are superb as he struggles with his belief in God. “Spooks” and “To Sleep” where my favorite. “Song of the Pilgrims” broke my heart even as a non-Christian.Also, does Lewis have any writings in French? Many of his poem titles were in French and it has me intrigued.
Pretty dark. Good reminder, as was a song from Jars of Clay that I've heard many times but just recently revealed listened to, that the very person who seems so far from a deep and intimate faith in Christ one day, we have no reason to believe they can't be changed.
On this read, I was struck by the fact that it was published in the wake of Lewis's WWI service, and as such, reads differently - more lyrical, more romantic, generally less cynical - than one might expect of poetry of the time.Some reviewers identify Lewis solely with his apologetics/later work, and thus find these verses somehow uncharacteristic; methinks they miss how he is treating from the first the themes of empiricism, of mythology, of "a sudden beam of larger light" of joyful desire that he treats so often later on.
CSL addresses God so many times in this work that one begins to suspect that he's more theist than he cares to admit to himself.
Nevertheless, it would be uncharitable to simply dismiss the young CSL as "not a real atheist," as much as I would like to based on many of the confused ideas herein.That's the weirdest thing about this whole collection.
If the young Lewis was confused about theism he was equally confused about atheism.This collection is very much worth reading for Inklings fans.
But looking into it more, I found it deeply insightful to realize these were actually some of his first works--reflective of a time shortly after his service in the trenches of World War 1.
One moment was enough,We know we are not made of mortal stuff.And we can bear all trials that come after,The hate of men and the fool's bestial laughterAnd Nature's rule and cruelties unclean,For we have seen the Glory-we have seen.----Atoms dead could never thusStir the human heart of usUnless the beauty that we seeThe veil of endless beauty be,Filled full of spirits that have trodFar hence along the heavenly sodAnd see the bright footprints of God.
In particular, like Orual in Lewis's later novel Till We Have Faces, Lewis expresses resentment of God:"The sky above is sickening, the clouds of God's hate cover it,Body and soul shall suffer beyond all word or thought,Till the pain and noisy terror that these first years have wroughtSeem but the soft arising and prelude of the stormThat fiercer still and heavier with sharper lightnings fraughtShall pour red wrath upon us over a world deform....For Nature will not pity, nor the red God lend an ear,Yet I too have been mad in the hour of bitter painingAnd lifted up my voice to God, thinking that he could hearThe curse wherewith I cursed Him because the Good was dead."Yet not all of his poetry here is entirely bleak.
meh.
Wonderful poetry from a young, twenty-one year old C. S. Lewis. Beautiful and melancholic, and they give a picture into the early thoughts and beliefs of Lewis.
A lovely book of poems.

S. Lewis's first published work, and while the quality of the poetry in this collection is generally mediocre at best, but more important than the quality of the poetry is the insight these poems give us into the thinking of the pre-Christian Lewis.
While Lewis may have been an atheist before his conversion to Christianity, like many atheists, he seemed to be angry with the God that didn't exist.
Several of the poems express this anger, which partly grew out of his experiences in World War I.
S. Lewis and anyone else who wants to get a well-rounded picture of the early Lewis.
"God send you peace and delight thereof, And all green meat of the waste you love, "And guard you well from violent men Who'd put you back in the shafts again." But the ass had far too wise a head To answer one of the things I said, So he twitched his fair ears up and down And turned to nuzzle his shoulder brown.The book's next-best poem is about the value of normal people, the ray of light that the narrator can connect their experience to the world real things, not romantic abstractions.XXIV.
Being Lewis’s first book, and being published when he was only 21, this collection of poetry was very interesting. While this was written many years before his conversion to Christianity, it was intriguing how many early hints of later writing appeared within the poems. You could see the precursors of Tumnus, Puzzle, and others from Narnia. Even the parade of fairies and dryads surrounding the holy woman in The Great Divorce.I recommend for any fan of Lewis wanting to see his pre-Lewis days. My favorites were “The Satyr”, “The Ass”, and “In Praise of Solid People”.
C.S. Lewis was not really well known as a poet and this collection was his first published work. It wasn't bad, but it's redeeming factor was that it gives the reader an insight into Lewis' pre-conversion thinking. I'm not a huge fan of poetry anyway, so I'm glad that he went on to write other things, as I am a big fan of his other stuff.
A wonderful glimpse into the man, Lewis. These are poems of feel, taste, touch, sight and hearing of the human condition. They may not all follow convention or "rules of poetry" so if you need that, exit now. No, these are the emotive writings of a man in crisis. Beautifully penned, fiercely emotional, and bravely questioning of God, mankind, our of our very souls.
Lewis is shown to be multi-talented. He could have been a poet had he chosen to do so. Evocative verse.
