https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7891.Betsy_and_the_Great_World
Betsy and I are fighting right now.
You see, I just can't forgive her for lousing it up with Joe. Of course we all know it'll work out right in the end because, in the words of that annoying girl from Sleepless in Seattle they're "MFEO." But for now, I call you out Betsy Ray. You have permission to do the same for me when I inevitably make my own romantic blunders.
That is, you could, if you were a real person.
Regardless.I'm also fighting with Joe because I can't forgive him for the mustache.
A mustache?
09/2015 -stet09/2012 Wendy asked me to review this from the point of view of someone without a passport, so...I love visiting pre-WWI Europe with Betsy, much the way I love visiting pre-WWII Greece with Gerald Durrell.
I skimmed the tedious descriptions of pre-WWI Europe with a yawn, pined for Tacy and Tib and rolled my eyes at everything but Marco, Mrs. Main-Whittaker, and of course the glorious, perfect last chapter.This book began to change for me when I was in my mid-twenties, and it's become one of my favorites in the series.
Betsy's Europe is idyllic in a lot of ways, even when she's homesick and lost.
I still love it, but there are things lacking such as all the fun surrounding the "crowd" and Betsy's beloved Deep Valley.
That being said, it's still a great book and a must read.
Betsy soon discovers that she is growing up (she is courted by a dashing Italian during her trip abroad), but she can not forget her beloved Joe.The Betsy-Tacy books were highly autobiographical and Lovelace perfectly captures the innocence and magic of childhood.
If you read this book and love it, please read the series.
I had the pleasure of visiting "Deep Valley" (aka Mankato, Minnesota) for a Betsy-Tacy convention back in 1996.
4.5Just wonderful. I like the German part best, although the shipboard part is great too (view spoiler)[I wonder, did Mr. O'Farrell deliberately keep his wife and children a secret from Betsy? (hide spoiler)]. 1/2 a star off because the ending is rushed (Betsy's gang in London was too abruptly introduced for me to care anything about them). Also, while I liked the descriptions of Venice, I was unconvinced by Marco, who has all the depth of characterization of Flat Stanley.
Me @ Betsy: JUST FUCKING WRITE TO JOE YOU SILLY 22 YEAR OLDAnd then I cried when she did so it's fine.
But if someone had told me at the beginning of Betsy and the Great World that two hundred some odd pages later I'd be sobbing in Barnes and Noble, I would not have believed it.I spent a lot of the book, charming though it was, thinking that it wasn't as good as the Deep Valley books.
Maybe that's why I didn't feel engaged in the rest of the book, because when Betsy and Tilda vowed to meet up again in Germany in 1917 (neunzehn siebzehn!), I thought to myself, "Wait, but..." And I didn't like it.And then I started thinking, aren't all of the Deep Valley boys going to go fight in Europe?
I think this is my very favorite Betsy book out of all of them. I will also add that the authoress's descriptions of Europe are colorful and delightful, making this a good book to encourage your child to read for some history.:)
(I suppose that is like life for us, though--we learn more in various areas as we get older and have more experiences.) It also slightly annoyed me that she had some of her vain moments, and I was relieved that many parts of her trip had her "doing without."That aside, I loved the book.
I regretted and still regret that I could not spend more time in an area and actually live there to truly know the place and the people, so I envied Betsy her chances there.
This is probably my least favorite of the older Betsy-Tacy books.
but for most of the story (view spoiler)[Betsy and Joe aren't together!
I basically want to travel back to the pre-WW1 era just to visit Europe.
Because I feel like it just wouldn't be any fun nowadays.I wish we could hear how all of the friends Betsy made in Europe ended up.
She has such a tragic story, and we never get to hear how that ends up!
(Yet another reason for more Betsy-Tacy books ...)Overall, this is a great story ...
I love the conclusions Betsy comes to.
Joe forgot about Betsy being a flirt,(enter new guys)and about Betsy's social distractions.Dropping out of college to travel made this a wonderful book..a look at Europe in the early 1900's before the War. Traveling alone around N.Africa, middle east and Europe was a brazen thing for a young lady to do even if she had escorts in place.
The only thing that made Tib not being a part of this due to marriage and baby tolerable is that later in life Maude and her friend Bick (aka Tib) did travel to Europe together and see the world.That Betsy and Joe FINALLY hook back up through the Agony Column in the London newspaper (basically an early personal ad ) was the icing on the cake!
We skip two years before this book begins, during which time Betsy went to University, hated it, dropped out, and lost touch with Joe when he went off to Harvard.
And so, Bob Ray being the kind father that he is, offers a "snoggestion" that Betsy take some time to explore Europe.So this book differs from the rest of the series, set alternately on an ocean liner across the Atlantic, in Italy, in Munich, in Paris, and in London.
Betsy makes friends, falls in love with an Italian musician, socializes with socialites and cleaning staff alike, all while the shadow of the Great War creeps across Europe.
And then the war begins, and Betsy makes plans to come home.
Still haven't been to Venice, but I re-read this while in Rome.5-14-2009 review:Oh how I love this book.
I re-read it in preparation for my trip to (part of) the Great World.
I especially love it because Betsy travels alone, something that I enjoy very much.
Not to mention the foreshadowing of the Great War and, oh, did I mention the romance?The details of Munich and Venice are particularly rich.
I haven't yet been to Venice but, when I visited Munich in 2004, I used Betsy's explorations as my itinerary.
This novel, the penultimate in the Betsy-Tacy series, is an anomaly in some ways: no Tacy and Tib, very little of the Ray family, and almost nothing of Joe Willard.
It begins with a Betsy who has lost her 'grounding' in many ways.
She has completed two fairly unsatisfactory years at the U (University of Minnesota in Minneapolis), she has fallen out with Joe, and she has more or less lost her way.
It's a painful time for Betsy, and I think it's a painful time for her loyal readers, too!
While Betsy is in London, the war breaks out and she scrambles to get passage back home.
The character of Betsy seems exactly like what Louisa May Alcott would have come up with if she had been alive and writing when Maud Hart Lovelace was so it was also great that Little Women was mentioned (2x) in the book.
My mom growing up loved the book Marjorie Morningstar which was written around the same time period (also about a strong willed young woman who wants to be an artist - actress instead of writer).
An old favorite, and the perfect comfort read for moving abroad. I’d be lying if I said I hadn’t specifically tried to find a flat it Taviton Street just because of this book. There’s no one like Betsy Ray!
I loved that this book took her to places that I am exploring right now and perfectly describes the up and down emotions that come from living in another land
enjoyed this much more than I thought I would; I didn't care much for it the first time I read it 20 or so years ago, but liked it lots this time around.
I tend to read this book when I am homesick, because it starts with Betsy setting off for a year in Europe, and she is terribly homesick. But as the chapters go by, she gets over it - and so do I. She always makes me appreciate living in Europe again. But it isn't always the most successful cure, because as soon as I finish this book, I of course have to read Betsy's Wedding, which describes her wonderful homecoming, and then the adventure of married life.
One of my favorites--read over and over
It’s hard to read these teen/college Betsy books; I actually enjoy the forewords (this one was “Betsy Ray: Feminist Icon”) and the afterward better.
In this afterward we learn that besides names, this book was basically all true to Maud Hart Lovelace’s life, as she used her letters home to write every part of Betsy’s European adventure.
It’s only when her pride makes her aware at how silly she must look walking along with a doll that I think, “Okay, now is when she’ll redeem herself and take it to the little girl with the headless doll.” She does nothing of the sort and the chapter ends, and I’m left baffled.
It's sometimes uncomfortable, contextualizing a white American's experience at that time with some of the places she is, and interesting to, knowing that World War I is looming in the near, near future.
I mean, I my love for Joe Willard knows no bounds, but .
I love how Betsy's fun in tinged with sadness, and how she realizes her feelings for Joe through her sadness about Marco.And when she gets to England, it's just so much fun.
I love the wholesome quality to the Betsy-Tacy books.
Although this was written about a bygone era, many of the themes are necessary for girls today.
How absolutely inspiring that Betsy and her older sister Julia were encouraged to pursue their dreams at a time when most parents could only see a future for their girls involving married life and prepared their daughters to be a wife and mother.
Julia was encouraged to pursue her career as a singer, and Betsy as a writer.
The portrayal of the sexes as balanced, considering the time period in which this series was written, is astounding!
The book starts with a summary of the last few years of her life (and those of friends and family), and so much has happened (all loosely based off Ms. Lovelace’s life) that I never quite connected with Betsy and the Great World.
By depriving readers of that journey, the book never quite hits its mark, which is a shame, because it’s an interesting story.Reminiscent of a travelogue, Betsy and the Great World is chockfull of details about 1914 Europe (and yes, you did read that date correctly, history nerds).
I liked this one much more than the other in the series that i read.
Although there are a few love interests in this one, it's not as flirty or high school as, well, the books set in high school!
Also, I loved that Betsy spends a great deal of her time in Germany.
I could totally relate to her experiences and it was fun to read about places I am familiar with, at least in name and anticipation and some in person!
I also love that she comes to realize her feelings for joe - it's an underlying romance that was very hopeful and sweet.
My library didn't have this book when I was a kid, so the first time I read it was when I finally bought the series as an adult, 10 or so years ago. It is wonderful to experience travel through Betsy's eyes, particularly now, after having lived in Europe for two years.
Suffers a little for me because it doesn't have any of the supporting characters from Deep Valley that are so wonderful, but recovers due to the Betsy/Joe storyline, of course.
This was my favorite in the Betsy-Tacy series.
The best book in my favorite series of all time
Loved it!
Imagine sailing for Europe, just to have the experience of being there...
