https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/411855.The_Stud
The Stud by Jackie CollinsRating: 3  starsFirst things first, I got this book free from Amazon. Second, Jackie Collins has been deceased for only two years. Her sister, Dame Joan Collins, is more than an honorable mention and a legend. So the least that I could do is write a full-bodied review, pouring it straight from the lead crystal decanter of my opinion. Here goes.Now, on to the good stuff-In the era of pop culture television shows like  Dallas ,  Dynasty ,  Knots Landing , and  Falcon Cres
Jackie Collins is part of this esteemed group but even then, she was in a class of her own making.
At the heart of the narrative is ambitious, hormone and ego-driven (if a little idealistic at times) Tony Blake who becomes the sexual play-thing and employee of Fontaine Khaled, a retired model and the wife of mega millionaire Benjamin Khaled.
Following a chance meeting at Hobo, Tony decides he’s in love with Fontaine’s stepdaughter, Alexandra, who later uses him—unbeknownst to Tony—to make her childhood crush jealous.
Joan Collins (Jackie’s sister) stars in the movie version of The Stud.
I may not have enjoyed this particular book as much as I would normally love a Jackie Collins, but it's getting 5 stars regardless, as JC doesn't deserve anything less.
really liked it, hence the four stars. a very quick read told from the viewpoint of three different people. nicely done, if a bit trivial story. some sex and drugs as expected, but nothing very graphic. especially liked "the stud" himself, i could so well understand his feelings and at the same time - all he is is such a big prick. but that's some men's perception of the world for you (or so i guess, i'm not a man myself).finally a pretty good book that came with a women's mag.
I’ve known about this book for years (certainly since the film came out) but never thought to read it until now and (since it’s as old as I am) it does feel more than a little dated, though I can imagine it was raunchy for the time.
And it’s a real product of its time - Tony and his friends shag anything that moves (including, strangely, girls who are clearly underage) and whilst several female characters more than hold their own - Fontaine Khaled especially, but also Alexandra, her step-daughter - women don’t tend to come out of it well.
The level of hedonistic depavity is unparrelled in this raunchy book of sexual misadventures.Exactly what one expects from this particular author. As someone who has enjoyed many of her written efforts can say that Jackie Collins will be missed but her body of work will entertain new readers for many years to come.
The story itself just wasn't any good for me.
Too much that just didn't seem to work for the book.
It's told in the perspective of 3 people & if would get happy to read Fontaine's chapters just because she was the only character who seem truly right for the story.
It could've done without Alexandra's storyline.
(I liked Alexandra as a character, just not for this book.)It took me 5 days to read and my copy is only 158 pages.
The only way I finished it was by reminding myself that if I got this book done, I could read something else.
I read this as part of a reading challenge and this fulfilled the category of "bottom of the to read pile" as I got it free with a magazine.
I had never read a Jackie Collins before and now I can say I'm not going to again.
I appreciate this was written in the 60s so was probably considered "racy" at the time but to a modern reader, it really isn't.
The sexiest scene is just two people looking at each other and waking up together the next morning.
I was quite disappointed by this novel, having recently finished Chances by Collins and ranking it very highly. I felt this novel would have worked better as a more fleshed out and developed book where we see Tony drag his way through the ranks to become a club owner, really understanding his drive and his emotions. Feeling his ambition, lust, love or heartbreak.The narrators were different but because they often recapped the same events I just grew bored. And while these voices were different from each other they were very formalized and stereotypical, barely developing throughout.
With a range of characters from the mildly unpleasant to utterly repellent, The Stud is a novel completely reflective of it's time and social origins. It's fun to read in places and you get a really strong sense of the London Sixties scene, but with endless references to underage girls it makes for pretty grim reading with a post-Saville mindset. Yuk.
The book was going very well and the story was building nicely, then all of a sudden it was over. Felt very rushed at the end and left me feeling unsatisfied.
Like breaking into Grandma's dirty books when you were a kidI try to read classic literature here and there to balance out the vast quantity of books with half naked guys on the cover.
A classic Jackie Collins with a half naked guy on the cover?
Sex, fashion, fur coats, and more.
(Yes, fur coats, in a number of styles.
Lines like "Birds were always saying no when they meant yes" show some of the beliefs of the era, and leave me slightly queasy.
For the time frame it was written, this is suitable, potentially scandalous, but not my thing.
Well after being in a reading slum since May I must say this is the last book I expected to get me out of it. Very interesting and exciting... Bit dull at some points and the ending felt a bit rushed but I did enjoy it quite a bit.
This is the 1st book I read by Jackie Collins. I'm sorry I stopped reading this story at chapter 8 because I didn't get the point of this story.

The oldest novel by Jackie Collins that I've read - it was published in 1969 (I think her first book was published in 1968, The World is Full of Married Men ... haven't done that one, yet) and being only 3 yrs old at the time, I wasn't able to gauge any hoopla this book could/would/should have caused. Hilarious pornography - raised my eyebrows even in the mid 80's - when I discovered Jackie Collins, and then promptly went on a guilty-pleasure binge ... reading one book after another and another.
very tame sex wise, embarrassing late 60s hipster speak, but the 3 unreliable narrators was a suprisingly clever plot device. My copy had some bizarre typos like "he was a hit with the rich old windows"
Wasn't a big fan of it. Kind of didn't end.
i love jackie collins although i enoyed this it wasnt the best she has done
Not bad, embarrassing title
Check out my review @ booksteaandcake.blogspot.com.au
I had to read this for a pop fiction class. I had never read or have never read since anything like this. While it was totally trashy, it did keep me interested, like a people magazine.
Smut . . . .but sometimes you want to read smut!!!!
Typical Jackie. Quick read. Guilty pleasure.
3 in 1 book, Odhams Press. Including “The expurgator” and “Villains galore”.Not sure when I finished this but guessing 1974
Ya gotta love a bit of fluff like this
2.5 stars
read yesrd ago it was good
not her best
This is an early book by Jackie Collins yet is still as sexy and sultry as her later offerings. Not my taste.
Well, it was interesting... I like Jackie Collins' books. I have read most of the Lucky series and the older stuff, but somehow missed this one out the first time through. So I thought I'd better get it read so that I don't have any gaps. I enjoyed the usual Jackie style. The sex, romance, thrill, grit and bitchiness that comes with anything she wrote. But it didn't really have much of a story behind it. Other than building the characters.  It was a easy read, enjoyable and escapist. I would recommend if you want something to pass the time.
