https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/825419.Arabian_Sands
With the subsequent discovery and extraction of oil this is now a record of a vanished world.Coming from a privileged British background (his father had been ambassador to Abyssinia, and one of Thesiger's early experiences was seeing the Abyssinian army jogging off to battle an insurgent,) as a young man he travelled ion the inhospitable Danakil depression, and after the Second World War travelled across the Empty Quarter of southern Arabia repeatedly, in between other adventures.
Thesiger's autobiography The Life of my Choice puts his journey in the context of his life - it is worth remembering that between trips to the Empty Quarter he was also sending time in the Kurdish regions and in the marshes of southern Iraq.
I like to browse through my books on a Sunday morning for some strange reason and came across this book that I read when I was working in Saudi Arabia and, as I had also met the bedouin and taken tea with them, I was interested to hear about Thesiger's travels in that country.
It's such an interesting study of the Saudi culture by a travel writer, and also an explorer, such as Thesiger, and I highly recommend it to anyone interested in the Middle East.It's also good to see that this book is still so readily available.
He has included in his present memoir not only the hardships of the travel and the dry enumeration of places and distances and weather reports, but the history of the peninsula, the way the climate and the economic issues had shaped the culture of the nomadic herders, the political changes brought about by the liberation from the Ottoman Empire and the subsequent creation of national Arab states, the balance between personal vendettas among the tribes and larger mmovements by the most powerful sheiks.
“…There was a very lovely girl working with the others on the well. Her hair was braided, except where it was cut in a fringe across her forehead, and fell in a curtain of small plaits round her neck. She wore various silver ornaments and several necklaces, some of large cornelians, others of small white beads. Round her waist she had half a dozen silver chains, and above them her sleeveless blue tunic gaped open to show small firm breasts. She was very fair. When she saw I was trying to take a
For example:I learnt that drastic measures are required to ensure that female camel brings down their milk:
The book covers an area of the world about which I am wholly ignorant: Oman, The Yemen and southern Saudi Arabia; it sets one thinking about man’s insignificance before nature and how our consciousness of the evanescent uncertainty of life is these days lost, concealed behind fragile mask of modernity; it portrays a way of life that I am sure in only a few decades has disappeared forever; it has a lot to teach us about camels.
When I first came across this book in the library I was unsuspecting of the journey it would take me on, but I find, now that I have been on that journey, I am all the richer for it.Wilfred Thesiger was wonderful company as I rolled along on a camel beside him, not literally of course, taking in the sights of a desert that has long since been tarnished by the west.If you want to learn about the Bedu, and more indirectly the Arabs, then there is no greater book for that than Arabian Sands.
Thesiger’s book is about a time, right after many people thought most of the great adventures had already been had and right before the frontiers of the desert sands were truly closed off.
The book was one man’s love affair with the hardship of desert sand and the people who had called it their home -- the Bedu.
There are long passages in the book when the author and his compatriots are starving in the desert.
Passages that I think will make you want to read this book.
I read this book on a beach somewhere far away from the deserts of Arabia.
His respect for the people who guided him around the Sands at the height of colonialism, his acceptance of cultural differences, and his ability in adapting comfortably, all endeared him to me, despite his crotchety attitude at times.Wilfred Thesiger was given an assignment to go into the deep deserts of Oman and find out whatever he could about desert locusts.
Reading about the battles and skirmishes taking place between the different tribes at this time gives a real strong feel of the formation of Saudi Arabia, which is still being governed on tribal lines.
The printed book contains maps, but they are NOT included in the PDF file that accompanied the audiobook.
It was Bedu tribesmen that were Thesiger’s guides in the deserts he traversed in Rub Al Khali of southern Saudi Arabia, in Yemen and in Oman.
Here we get to experience life in the desert and learn about the Bedu people and other Arab tribesmen.
He speaks also of barbaric rites as the flaying of the penis, about looting, beheadings, chopping off of hands, blood feuds and vengeful retaliations.I did learn about the man, Wilfred Thesiger, about life in the deserts and about the Bedu, but I retain my right to make my own judgment of them.
In  Arabian Sands  Thesiger documents a time, a place, and a people on the cusp of change. Largely responsible for mapping the 250,000 square miles of the largest sand desert in the world, The Empty Quarter, in the area of modern Yemen, Saudi Arabia, UAE and Oman, Thesiger realized that his work hastened the demise of the way of life he loved.  "Regretfully, however, I realize that the maps I made helped others, with more material aims, to visit and corrupt a people whose spirit once lit the des
Largely responsible for mapping the 250,000 square miles of the largest sand desert in the world, The Empty Quarter, in the area of modern Yemen, Saudi Arabia, UAE and Oman, Thesiger realized that his work hastened the demise of the way of life he loved.
"Regretfully, however, I realize that the maps I made helped others, with more material aims, to visit and corrupt a people whose spirit once lit the desert like a flame."Despite having no interest in writing, Thesiger is a natural.
The boys accompanied Thesiger over a period of years, time and again ignoring dangers and deprivations to be in his company.This is a classic which stirs regret for a culture untouched.
After travelling for miles through the desert with his companions, he writes:…we saw a small boy, dressed in the remnants of a loin-cloth….
God has brought you here – drink.” I drank again, knowing even as I did so that they would go hungry and thirsty that night, for they had nothing else, no other food and no water.Along with his bravery, reserve and occasional dry humor, Thesiger fits the mold of the classic T.E.-Lawrence-style British adventurer in another respect as well: his absolute admiration for the traditional Bedouin way of life, and a commensurate distain for all things "modern." Toward the end of this book, he writes: "I realized that the Bedu with whom I had lived and travelled, and in whose company I had found contentment, were doomed.
But when I read a book about a trip I'll probably never take, I want to feel like I'm there, and Thesiger either didn't know how to do that, or didn't think it was important.But my bigger complaint is with Thesiger's thorough, oft-stated dismissal of everything and everyone not Bedu.
Many of our possessions (like, books for example) enhance the quality of our lives tremendously, and the notion that eschewing all possessions somehow makes a life purer and more nobly lived is something that I just can't begin to agree with.
في الواجهة الخلفية لهذا الكتاب "الرمال العربية" تظهر صورة للمؤلف الرحالة البريطاني "ويلفرد ثيسجر "و الذي أطلق عليه أصدقاءه البدو اسم " مبارك بن لندن" .يظهر مبارك في الصورة و هو مرتدي الدشداشة العمانية و مصرا و خنجرا و ممسكا بعصا ، و اكتسب وجهه سحنة البدو بعد أن عركته الحياة الصحراوية القاسية ....في هذا الكتاب يشرح و يلفرد -أو مبارك - تفاصيل رحلته التي قام بها في ربوع الربع الخالي خلال خمس سنوات (1945 -1950) متنقلا على ظهر ناقة مع جماعة من البدو بين مناطق عمان و حضرموت و السعودية و الإمارات( لم
و رغم ان الكتاب يعتبر توثيق لما جرى في رحلته بالتفصيل الممل ، إلا أنه أيضا مرجع مهم لحياة المجتمعات الخليجية في تلك الحقبة الزمنية .أورد فيه عادات البدو و سماتهم و حكى عن العديد من نوادرهم المتعلقة بكرمهم و فراستهم و خصال أخرى ..
أمر آخر جعل رحلة المؤلف مثرية و هو التقاءه بالمغفور له الشيخ زايد بن سلطان آل نهيان حينما كان في البريمي و ذكر تفاصيل احتكاكه به شخصيا ..جعل ويلفرد ثيسجر اهداء الكتاب مخصوصا لشابين رافقاه في رحلته طيلة الخمس سنوات ، و هما "بن كبينة" و "بن غبيشة" شابين من ظفار و كانا خير سفيرين لأخلاق البدو الحميدة .أعجب بهما ويلفرد كثيراً و كان الاهداء عربون شكر و وفاء لهما ...
Even T.E. Lawrence never had it so rough. In the Fifties intrepid Wilfrid Thesiger and a small band set out to cross Arabia's "Empty Quarter," mostly for mapping purposes (his work is still referred to). The prose is lean and tough, but without brag: reminds me of the late Paul Fussell's term "British phlegm" to describe the attitude. All in all ARABIAN SANDS is a wonderful travel book, especially when sitting comfortably at home with lemonade, iced tea or shandy. A fine companion volume, also by Thesiger: The Marsh Arabs.
He had an unconventional life; born in Addis Ababa in Abyssinia, he spent the war in the region ending up in the SAS, before falling in love with the place and deciding to spend more time exploring it.
It was dangerous too; whilst some welcomed him warmly, others considered him an infidel even going as far to threaten his life at times.Thesiger has written a fascinating account of a landscape and culture of a people that is long gone.
A traveller in the modern Arabia would not be able to have access to the deserts in the way that Thesiger did, and this fine book is a worthy tribute to a traditional society.
Most travel book contains vivid descriptions of the landscape.
While Thesiger's occasionally describes the deserts physical details, the book is really a study of its the psychological landscape it creates.
"They could tell at a glance," he writes, "from the depth of the footprint whether a camel was ridden orfree, and whether it was in calf.
By studying strange tracks they could tell the area from which the camel came.
Camels from the Sands, for instance, have sof soles to their feet, marked with tatteredstrips of loose skin, whereas if they come from the gravel plains their feet are polished smooth." Fascinating stuff.
Superb read.
Was initially unsure of Rory Stewart's intro but after reading to the end I understood his views on Thesiger as a writer much more clearly.
This is travel for travel's sake and very much akin to a purist view which almost overshadows the sheer achievement and incredible adversity, the latter Thesiger takes in his stride.
A wonderful opening into an Arabia already changing and changed by the west and the advent of oil.A book for those truly interested in the deserts, but expect Thesiger to dwell on the peoples more than landscapes.
No prosaic passages here very functional and matter of fact!
Reading Arabian Sands was an incredible experience for me, not only because as a standalone work it's the best piece of travel writing I've come across, but also its insight into a people, the Arabs, and religion, Islam, that I had been searching for.
And the truly amazing thing about the book is how utterly honest and opinionated Thesiger is about the Bedu, how detailed - the good (mostly) and the bad.
There are several things I look for in a travel book experience: adventure, a smooth narrative, excitement and for the writer to get down to observing and understanding the people and place he/she is in without the eyes of a westerner.
Through his journey, documents a way of life which no longer exists, at a time when the Bedouins were fast disappearing with the discovery of oil in the Middle East, bringing with it the modern conveniences which arrive with this discovery of black gold.Upon finishing the book, I concluded that Thesiger was a true explorer; exploring for exploration’s sake.
But this region that is mostly Oman today has only existed as it is now for so short a period of time that the reality portrayed by Wilfred Thesiger, a British civil servant who used his day job to allow him to explore areas of the world mostly unknown to the West, is not so far distant as you might imagine.
He arrived at various destinations where he would hear of the travels of other foreigners to the region ready to make their own alliances based on discovered oil.The author traveled and lived among Bedouins and Arabic tribes.
Thesiger isn't a wordsmith, but he sure can wax lyrical about sand and camels.
Usually I'm skeptical of the "white dude realizes his culture is superficial/grossly consumeristic and seeks enlightenment in Savage Territories" topos -- although I empathize with his feeling of displacement -- but the author's understated, matter-of-fact prose and authentic love of the desert and its people keep him from falling into the Exotic Other trap.
The real selling part for me was the friendship he built with members of the Bedu, and the deep understanding that existed between them.
I enjoyed the old-fashioned, straightforward (i.e. unironic and "meta"less), almost Hemingway-esque narrative of the tough old Victorian Luddite accompanied by loyal, noble Bedu... Even felt ashamed of my own unadventurousness... Then began to wonder what was going on behind the narrative: Was Thesiger gay? Was he a kind of very dedicated sexual tourist (the kind you often see in Southeast Asia nowadays)? Why'd he insist on all the dangerous trips? If he loved Arabia so much, why couldn't he follow the rules?
مايميز هذا الكتاب هو أن الكاتب لم ينظر بنظرة إستعلائية لقبائل جزيرة العرب لذلك كان ما كتبه بعين المُطلع المتفحص. يضاف الى ذلك قيامه برحلات داخل جزيرة العرب الى مناطق لم يذهب اليها الكثير من الغربيين في ذلك الوقت
ولفريد تيسيجر ولد في الحبشة فأصبح لدية خبره قي عادات وتقاليد القبائل في الحبشة وجيبوتي وكان حلم حيات
The book covers Thesiger's explorations of Yemen, The Empty Quarter, Oman, and parts of the then Trucial States from about 1945 to 1950.
He was the first Westerner to explore some of the areas and did it as a traveller with Beduin companions.
This book was read and discussed as an "Abu Dhabi reads" title last year, organized by NYUAD.
I will look for it to read and listen to their review and discussion.
Despite my discomfort with some of his writings, the book was well worth reading to learn about both the people and the geography of the region.
If you care to read about the wisdom and meekness of the Desert and its Bedu people, Arabian Sands is your Bible.
This enchanted and spiritual volume completely satisfied my hunger for the romanticism and mysticism of travel and brought the dreamlike and psyhedelic part of the Arab world directly to my heart.
The key of survival lies in the power of community; alone you are doomed in the waterless sands.
Reading this book you will reach to the very root of the fatalism, generosity, poetry, pride, humour, courage, patience and the uncompromising hospitality of Arabic people.
I was completely enchanted.
"Arabian Sands" is 330 plainspoken and inspiring pages about "find[ing] peace in the hardship of desert travel and the company of desert peoples." In the midst of criss-crossing the Empty Quarter of the Arabian Peninsula, under constant threat of starvation, dehydration, or enemy raiders (or all of the above), Thesiger finds time to muse on Arab hospitality, hawking, and the occasional merits of sewing up a camel's anus.
Among no other people have I ever felt the same sense of personal inferiority." O, to kneel in the midst of an austere dunescape, scan the near-invisible traces of a bird's tracks on the shifting sands beneath my feet, and then mutter softly to my companions, "God willing we will eat bustard tomorrow." Superb.
Wilfred Thesiger is one of the really great travellers ever. This book details his adventures and explorations in hitherto untraveled reaches of the Saudi Arabian deserts in the 1940's.He writes beautifully about the culture and nomadic existence of the Bedu people who populate this region. It is a superb account of the way of life of the now extinct Bedu way. Thesiger laments the demise of the life of the Bedu due to the riches brought about by the discovery of oil in the 40's and 50s.A must read for anyone interested in adventure and cultures of the middle east.
An amazing story! I savored every word, description, character met, and landscape. It's not often I sit back and thoroughly, and slowly, enjoy a read. I feel privileged to have 'met' these characters and 'traveled' through Arabia before the oil companies and modernization changed the landscape and the people. A beautiful story.
عن مستشرق فهم الصحراء و العرب،أكثر شخص انصف اهل البدو الاعراب.
His father was not a small businessman in New England, but the British ambassador to Ethiopia in the days when all parts of that country had not been visited by Westerners.
The first part of ARABIAN SANDS describes the author's adventures travelling in wilder parts of Ethiopia.
ARABIAN SANDS tells the story of Thesiger's travels in the Arabian deserts in the years 1945-1950, before Big Oil changed the lives of everybody there.
Nevertheless his descriptions of Bedu life, their culture, and behavior are fascinating, as are many of the events that took place over the course of his long travels.
