https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42384.Family_Shoes
This has one of the most Streatfeild openings ever written: The Thames is a very twisting sort of river.
First there is a big bend to the right, then a little one to the left, then a great bulge to the right, followed immediately by a smaller bulge to the left.
In that smaller bulge to the left is the part of southeast London in which the Bells lived.And the entire book is that Streatfeild-y, too.
It's a little messy - there are tons of characters - but it's warm and lively and funny.
This version is a reprint in the Vintage Children's Classics series and it's interesting to see what the editors have decided need to be explained for twenty-first century children in the additions at the end of the book: 'Make do and mend...'; words like 'ermine', 'perambulator' and 'verger'.
I'm starting to feel like a relic myself!This is definitely not one of the best of Streatfeild's books.
The ways in which the Bells come into needed money are a little more realistic, although still magical in the context of the book.Recommended for fans of Streatfeild, but I'd definitely start non-fans off on Ballet Shoes.
In this manner, I was reminded of Michael Bond’s delightful Paddington novels, which use a very similar structure, and Rumer Godden’s children’s stories, which are written in the same quaint and amusing way.As with the other Vintage Children’s Classics, this edition of The Bell Family contains a wealth of extra information, ranging from an author biography to a quiz which you can take once you have finished reading.
As a child, I would have been delighted by this interactive aspect, and it still charmed me somewhat as an adult reader.Streatfeild is very perceptive of her characters, and The Bell Family is certainly a nice book to settle down with.
Cute story. Good for younger readers.
Jolly good fun, I'm almost tempted to say.
The eldest daughter Jane is pining for dance lessons, the youngest daughter Ginnie has a desperate need for a new dress, and the summer holiday is quiet and dreadful, as the family cannot afford to go anywhere.The Bell family is constantly contrasted with their relatives who are rich but very obnoxious.
While the Bell family isn't glamourous, they are good people who deserves lovely lives.
As you read the story you cannot help but root for them; Jane deserves to succeed as a dancer, the family deserves a nice holiday and the eldest son Paul should be allowed to become a doctor.Streatfeild works magic as she unfolds her story.
Yet for some reason I never read any more of Streatfeild's books, until now.Vintage Classics published this edition of The Bell Family this spring.
Each of the children brings their own personality and charm to the book-Paul, the sensible eldest child, Jane who harbours dreams of attending ballet school, rash and mischievous Ginnie who is desperate to find her role in the family (I must admit to having a soft spot for her.
The hardest part is choosing which of these timeless children's books to read next-although I must admit I'm very tempted by Emil and the Detectives.
in the thirties calling your parents by their names was not a thing.) There's a singing little brother, a girl who just has to dance, and an angry little sister who thinks she knows it all, along with a rather shadowy eldest boy and the obligatory dog.
However it did get better, though I got fine and tired of the youngest girl (the obligatory fat kid everyone laughs at) calling herself "Miss Virgina Bell" in conversation.Published in 1954, but with a definite feeling of earlier.
There's a bit encouraging kids to find money-making activities, including the tiresome old trope of a lemonade stand.
I just read a lot of these sort of books when I was a kid) but I can't say much good about the actual writing.
A lot of the old fashioned ideas in the books tend to grate a bit, and some things like her need to point out which girl is pretty and which is ugly bugged me.
Though it was nice escaping into these books, there are other much more interesting and better written books about children from this time period in England that I can get the same sort of nostalgia from so I won't be reading these again.
It's always nice to acquire and read another Noel Streatfeild, and this is a nice edition with a brief biography and glossary in the back, intended for modern children who don't know much about the 1950s.
The book is a series of incidents through the year, showing the family contrasted with their rich and materialistic relatives, covering day-to-day problems and stresses, and seeing the children make some important decisions.
It's far from the best of Noel Streatfeild's work, but it's very readable and I'm pleased to have this in my collection at last.
I have read Noel Streatfeild before but this was a new one for me, and it was totally delightful.
The story which is set in 1950's SE London, is of the Bell family.
Kind and conscientious of his parish and family duties.Mother: Cathy, Sweet woman trying bravely to make ends meet on a vicar's income.Eldest: Paul.
(of course, this is Noel Streatfeild after all).Third eldest: Ginnie (Virginia).
Youngest: Angus, likes all things animal and sings in the choir.Mrs Gage; down to earth general help for the family and as big hearted as she is capable.And the cocker spaniel dog: Esau.I loved this family.
The four star review must be entirely without reference to any other work besides others by the same author!
I've read this so many times since I was child; I'm completely incapable of giving it an unbiased rating.
Yes, Streatfeild's stories are very similar, as are her characters.
I suppose the cozy tone may grate on the nerves.
But I've always loved how the author made her adults point-of-view characters alongside the children, and even referred to them by first name.
The children's career aspirations are fascinating, too.
I wish all her other novels would be released in eBook form, too.I,own this one as an ebook, published as "The Bell Family."
Noel Streatfield is always good for a bit of comfort reading and escapism, but for me this book didn't come close to Ballet Shoes or White Boots. She does tend to recycle her characters from book to book, and I didn't find a single character here who wasn't instantly recognisable from at least one other Streatfield. It was also very episodic - probably not a surprise as I think the book came after the radio series of the same name - but I never really felt I could get into the story the way I wanted to.
It was a nice book.
A very fast paced book.
We get to know about the poorer side of London and how hard it can be to manage a family and still be happy when you can break at any point.
We get many colourful characters which are very different from each other.
Along the read you feel happy and sad with the ongoing events.
It will a really nice read for a kid thought they may find it not to relevant because of their fast life.
A nice read to start the year.
Utterly adorable.
It's incredibly dated, of course, but that in no way diminishes its appeal.
It's always a good sign when I think to myself 'if X or Y does not happen to a character I am LITERALLY (not literally) going to SET MYSELF ON FIRE'.
While I was reading this book I knew with utter certainty that if Jane didn't get to go to ballet school or Paul gave up his dream of becoming a doctor I was going to LITERALLY (not literally) SET MYSELF ON FIRE.
Good thing everything always turns out OK in the end in a Noel Streatfeild book.
I liked this one quite a bit...not as much as "Ballet Shoes", but quite alot. :) Though, I have to say, I didn't care for Ginnie, the 2nd girl. I normally like the high-spirited children, who do get into trouble. They seem more realistic to me. But Ginnie went beyond. She was a perfect brat, in my opinion. Not at all sorry when she did wrong, and even thinking she was in the right, and she was being treated unfairly. Made me want to give her a good long shake. lol. But Jane I did love. :)
Slightly different than most of Noel Streatfeild's books for children. This family actually has both parents living at home with them and the entire family is not caught up in the entertainment industry. But a lot of the other familial Streatfeild theme's are there: dealing with poverty, children trying to help out their family by earning money, secrets or half-truths causing havoc and misunderstandings. Another solid Streatfeild story to share with my daughter.
This was enjoyable for all the usual reasons in a Streatfeild novel. Perhaps the only shock was the Sister Who Dances did not force her way into an audition, as so many other characters have done. It's nice to read a book without a major issue. The story unfolds chapter after chapter about the family, and nothing traumatic happens and the Bells are kind and pleasant people. The End.
I have always loved Noel Streatfeild's books and as a child I got my library to ILL them for me or hunted through second hand book stores to find all of them. She tells the perfect "girls stories". I was always able to find one character in each book that was my favorite. They definitely stand up to re-reads.
It's quite a delightful story, one I would have adored in its entirety if I was younger. It's not as lovely as Ballet Shoes though it's refreshing to find characters who are well-fleshed out stereotypes.
The Bell Family were far posher than our family; I was fascinated at the thought of having a maid, and didn't have a clue what brawn was - but I enjoyed the book so much that I read it umpteen times.
Typical of Streatfeild, the roles of good and evil are clearly defined. The minister's family featured here are strapped for cash and the children are impossibly angelic. Nonetheless, it was an absorbing read.
quite pleasant. a rose tinted view of an English parish family and their community. Very proper & twee. the narrative tends to overlap without proper pauses. a very sweet keep calm and carry on tale of happily ever after!
That friend of mine gave this to me for my birthday, probably my 13th.
Fiction S914b 2014
Unfortunately, nowhere near as charming as her more well known books. One of the characters drove me up a wall–and I think I was supposed to be sympathetic to her. [Feb. 2010]
I am a big fan of Streatfeild but this family had no redeeming features. Very saccharine writing. Ghastly...
Read this one aloud with Brooke. Definitely a slow read as it is character driven rather than plot driven. We enjoyed spending time with the family in the book.
http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44...#
http://wordnerdy.blogspot.com/2014/05...
The version of this book which I read had the original title, "The Bell Family".I love most of Noel Streatfeild's books, but couldn't really get into this one.
Readers of "A Vicarage Family" will realize that the Bell family are an idealized replica of Streatfeild's own family, with a maddeningly perfect mother rather than the cold mother of Streatfeild's own childhood.For myself, I have to admit that I found Ginnie to be one of the most irritating characters in classic children's literature; to me she seems to be so affected, constantly referring to herself in the 3rd person as "Miss Virginia Bell", for example.
Personally I would have liked to have found out more about Jane.A book I can only recommend to die-hard Noel Streatfeild fans; readers who only know her from "Ballet Shoes" will probably be disappointed.
