https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11212281-poems-by-emily-dickinson-series-two
“As by the dead we love to sit,Become so wondrous dear,As for the lost we grapple,Though all the rest are here,In broken mathematicsWe estimate our prize,Vast, in its fading ratio,To our penurious eyes!”
Combines the worst of romanticism and modernism.
''The soul unto itselfIs an imperial friend, —Or the most agonizing spyAn enemy could send.''
Simple, emotionally charged, and beautiful, these poems bring back memories of my favorite childhood books and rhymes, evoling memories of the first stories I ever read.
The pictures Emily Dickenson’s poems create in my mind, the feeling they invoke, however, are far from simple.
This collection displayed the author’s ability to tell a story in an exquisite small collection of words without overwhelming the reader with overly elaborate phrases.
The magic of each poem was brief and lingering at the same time.
If you wish to revisit a mood evoked by nursery rhymes and songs which have stayed in our collective lore, I recommend you try reading this collection of poetry.
Series two was just as good as series one! The first section was a little bit harder to get through, but after that, I was quickly flying through the poems. Another great one by Emily Dickinson!
I love nature, maybe I would like to read about it, but not in poetry.

In Series Two I found myself connecting more to the poetry in Life than several of the other sections. Like in many poetry collections there was some I loved (XXXI, Hope, Sight, Deed, Love II), some I didn't, and some I'm apathetic about. I am getting to know Emily's kind of distinctive style, and even if it might not be my favorite style of poetry, I do enjoy it.
Always return to Emily Dickinson. First read her in junior high school.
I did not feel a single thing. Free copies, anyone?
when am I ever not 'currently reading' this tho lol
I think it was the same as Series One, nothing new, very good verses and rhythms but not that interesting. going to finish the series anyways ... to Series Three.
Words exist independently from reality, but are used to explains it, and to recreated. From there the poems explore the degrees of the emotions and how the external world is perceived. Death is still not a great beyond.

Wow, that was a good pleasure!These lovely poems should be read on sunset, on a romantic beach, along with a tasty cup of good coffee! -- with slow music for sure:) that would be perfect!Emily Dickinson was a romantic soul. Her poems say that. They were easy, and totally charming.I highly recommend them. If you like to take a break from your heavy noisy grey life, then you should read them - they are the cure! They will put you in a world full of colors.
The robin is the oneThat interrupts the mornWith hurried, few, express reportsWhen March is scarcely on.The robin is the oneThat overflows the noonWith her cherubic quantity,An April but begun.The robin is the oneThat, speechless from her nest,Submits that home and certaintyAnd sanctity are best.
The depth that you find in Emily's writing is what you can't find in any prose. The work that she could do in such young age, is astonishing. Most of her work remains relevant even today, and shall remember the same for the coming generations. Her poetry is filling, it fills your soul.
I liked the first one a little bit more than this selection but the series two is still great and catchy.
Discovered this book unexpectedly and I really❤ LOVE
Discovered this book unexpectedly and I really❤️ LOVE
The Time and Eternity chapter is such a weigh in heart.
Just get all three collections in one book and read through that instead
See my review of series one: my link text
Definitely not something i'd read normally but I was bored and it was a free ebook so I thought why not? To my surprise some of the poems were actually really good.
