https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18858489-spilled-milk
Brooke Nolan, from the time she is a little girl until her teenage years is sexually abused by her father.
The milk mishap is what seems to propel her into seeking help.Brooke builds strong relationships with others, mostly adults who stand by her, giving their full support as she faces the challenge of survival, and court, against her father.
Brooke is an intelligent young woman who finds peace, justice, and most importantly, strength.In my opinion Spilled Milk is about awareness, and reaching out, helping those who can't help themselves.
There are far too many stories that mimic Brooke's, characters, and situations may be different, but the fear, and devastation aren’t.
I know this kind of abuse goes on and that children are victimized by their parents, but this child was also victimized by Social Services and her school.
Brooke felt responsible for her siblings and her mother so she tolerated a situation that no child should have to face with the tacit understanding that her father would not sexually abuse her sister.
She couldn't protect her family from her father's incredible rage and selfishness, but she could keep it from being any worse.Brooke's mother, while not abusive, also contributed to her problems.
My 15 yo read this and told me I should read it. I was hesitant because of the subject matter but also wanted to be able to discuss with her. It was really hard to read in the beginning but I am glad I pressed on and finished it. A very insightful view of what she went through and how the system "works"...or doesn't work. Unbelievable resiliency displayed throughout this book. Thanks for the courage of the author to write this book.
This just goes to show just how important proofreading your book is. Seriously..."would OF?" "Oxycontin's?" Not to mention the ungodly number of run-on sentences. I bring this up because I thought this was a fantastic book, and it's a shame I couldn't give it a full 5-star review. Editing is writing 101.
Honestly, it is a moving and horrifying tale of bravery and sadness. But if the editing had been more thorough I'd have been able to focus solely on Brooke's voice. Instead, the misused plurals/'s and the disregard for punctuation left me a bit distracted.
This book is nonfiction/true crime.
The story is about a girl who is abused by her father.
As she gets older, she realizes that her home life is not right.
She gets the ball rolling that will eventually lead to her dad being held accountable.
I liked that this book focused on Brooke's strengths.
I also liked that she has been able to bring change to a system that had gaping holes when it came to dealing with traumatized children.
I listened to the audio so all of the editing problems this book is plagued with, didn't effect me.
Proofreading is important. The story is compelling, but the number of run-on sentences and terrible use of punctuation was very distracting. I found myself skimming at the end just to be done with it.
Couldn't put it down!! However, it deals with a very sensitive issue that may make this a book that is hard to read for some.
It shows how someone who lives in a bad environment feels it is normal.
Unfortunately many wear a mask so others don't know the real person inside because they mask the pain they feel.
Brooke's mask was being a good student.
This book shows what a little caring can do for a person.
It's always hard to trust others when living in a bad situation.
This book shows that no matter what we go through in life, we can change it to make it better.
It shows caring for someone can change their life for the better.
I'm going to dnf this book. My heart just can't take it.
3.5
I picked this book to primarily understand what can go in a sexually abused person's life and for that purpose, this book does have some new and interesting insights. But, the narration style was lacking.
Best book EVER!!!This book was absolutely amazing. I feel so much stronger just from reading this book and seeing how Brooke survived.
BadWhat ?????? Really sad story, not written well, extremely confusing characters. Do not recommend this book at all. Didn't even finish the last chapters.
“Just remember, rain doesn’t seem all that threatening at first, but too much rain can turn into a flood.” Cover aside (because well, it’s not the prettiest), Spilled Milk was one of the most compelling books I have read to this date. Spilled Milk shows you the inside of so many things that go on in this world every single day. And through Brooke’s POV, we see the details on how it can destroy a family and cause so much turmoil that they think there is no way to come back from it.  “But at the
Cover aside (because well, it’s not the prettiest), Spilled Milk was one of the most compelling books I have read to this date.
Spilled Milk shows you the inside of so many things that go on in this world every single day.
And through Brooke’s POV, we see the details on how it can destroy a family and cause so much turmoil that they think there is no way to come back from it.
It touched me in a way that I wasn’t expecting and puts so many things into perspective to me that I wasn’t aware of before reading Spilled Milk.
This was a free Kindle download and is a true story of how a young girl who is sexually abused by her father struggles through her teen-age and early adult life to finally tell herself that she has to close this chapter of her life.
Brooke Nolan grew up in an abusive household and for years thought her father and mother's reaction to her and her three siblings was a normal one.
Most young girls would have crumbled at what she had to endure but Brooke rises above it all and comes away with a college education and is a writer and a speaker to bring awareness for child abuse and domestic violence.
As much as the content is disturbing, and as much as I do not understand the 'moniker'- 'based on true events', this is a very solid write.
The story is detailed to the point that it becomes painful- but that is because of the subject matter and nothing else.Thankfully the book itself is not written in the 'graphic sense', that only will come from the readers individual mind, yet that is difficult enough to process.I especially liked the way the title itself has been worked into the story the way it has- the reasoning for the title itself if you will.
I would definitely recommend this.
I couldn't put this book down from how good it was. What a heartbreaking, incredible story! I love how the spilled milk on the dinner table inspired Brooke to speak out. This book made me love books that are based on a true story.
Moving story. A memoir about someone who made it through a horrific childhood and became an incredible, strong adult. My favorite kind of book.
Although, the main character in the book is named Brooke, the things that happened to her were exactly the things that happened to K.L. Randis when she was a girl.
SettingThe setting throughout the book is mostly Stroudsburg, Pennsylvania and Long Island, New York.
David Nolan- The father of Brooklyn (R.L. Randis) that raped and molested her for years.
In the book when Brooke realized that when her boyfriend’s brother spilt a glass of milk on the table and their father did not hit or shout at him, Brooke realized that her family was not normal.
I’m not sure why this book has such good reviews. The story is compelling but the writing is painful. The dialog was unreadable, especially the counselor, Midge. I think I’ve had enough of Kindle Unlimited self-published books.
So much praise for this bookI cried through most of this story.
When I was finished reading, I smiled.
It's a story of heartache and absolute terror but it's also a story of survival and strength.
As a woman who suffered through mental and physical abuse as a child, and extreme emotional abuse later in my first marriage, this story of hope was exactly what I needed.
I've been contemplating my return to college to get my degree in counseling for a few years now, and I'm going to do it.
Thank you for being so brave as to share your story with the world.
Wonderful book!!! Tough subject matter. It was hard to put down.
The writing and editing is not great, but the story was very compelling.
Quite heartbreaking... I'm going to have to come back with the review for this one!
Emotional readSpilled Milk is a heartbreaking tale of her life growing up.
I'm not gonna lie, this book is tough to read and you can't help but feel an anger so deep while reading but, it is refreshing to see how she used this experience to help the future and turn her horrific life into a learning tool for others.
I was under the impression that this was going to be a slightly different story regarding the failures of "the system." Although I have never experienced it myself, I believe the points brought forth in this book is something that should be addressed and fixed.
Emotional tale that all should read.
It's admirable that she was able to write objectively about her child abuse at the hands of her father, who seemed an intemperate and violent man. Her use of the language, however, leaves a lot to be desired. She doesn't know the proper use of commas, nor the difference between objective- and subjective-case nouns, and she spells the verb phrase "tryout" as well as using that word correctly for the noun phrase.
Holyyyy Moses! Absolutely breathtaking. This was a PHENOMENALLY sad book. One of those that make you realize how crazy life is and how sad things are that happen in your life that are beyond your control. The strength it took to write this story—beings it was based on a true story is amazing to me. I honestly have no words other than WOW!!!! If you don’t like sad books, you may not enjoy it however, if you want a huge realization of life then DIG IN!
I love this book! It draws you in so quick and once you start reading you can barely stop. It's very well written and it can get rather sad, frustrating and aggravating when you read it but only because you can't help but empathize with the main character and her story. Overall a great read, - must read too.
Spilled MilkJust finished the book "Spilled Milk". It is a very readable story and has a very powerful message which is very timely in view of current events. I highly recommend it!
