https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/232888.The_New_Basics_Cookbook
Meh...okay, but not great. There are better cookbooks out there. I bought this one years ago and have made a few recipes from it, but not a ton. I heard so much about the The Silver Palate Cookbook, I decided to buy this one instead. I now own both, and I would say that The Silver Palate Cookbook is better.Also, I've experienced the same issue as other reviewers. The book binding is coming undone in places. Since, it's not a cookbook I reach for too often, it's not a showstopper. However, given the price I paid, I expected better quality.
This is a good book for novice cooks. The recipes vary in difficulty and are easy to understand. The authors give concise explanations of cooking terms and methods, and various foods. I know a later book by Rosso (I think it was "Great Good Food") got a drubbing from the critics when it was revealed she didn't actually test all the recipes in a test kitchen. But this isn't THAT book. This does have basics like "how to cook a turkey", with some nice simple vegetable sides.
I found myself using this as a research manual rather than actually preparing recipes, although several of them have indeed become 'basics' in my cooking repertoire - the pie crust, tomato sauce, corn chowder, california sandwiches, caesar salad dressing, carrot cake, etc.
(You must absolutely try out the Carrot Cake!
Actually, Barbara admits to relying on recipes from Julee Rosso's & Sheila Lukins' The Silver Palate Cookbook.)But there are soooo many variations and fusions, sometimes I wonder if the authors are more keen on showing us their expertise and their ability to invent trendsetting combinations than teaching us the 'basics'.
Flipping through it today, I am reminded of how central this book was to the development of my kitchen ethics and culinary vocabulary.
"It's not 'cocoa' vin?!") I read this book cover to cover (and back again) before ever having a kitchen, studying it more assiduously than almost any other text in college.
When I think "lemon zester" the first thing that comes to mind isn't the one that sits in my drawer today but rather the zester in New Basics's "Parts of the Peel" diagram.
I think it will probably be a gift to my foodie godson when he gets his own kitchen.
while i love cook books and cooking magazines, i typically don't read a cook book cover to cover.
what i love most about this book is not the recipes themselves but that the authors explain the ingredients used and show you many ways to use them.
i've never read "the joy of cooking," but i use this book in a similar way.
i'm pretty intimidated by cooking meat, but the authors explain different cuts and the best methods of preparing each one.
i highly recommend this book to anyone who enjoys cooking at any skill level.
If you are just starting out and have a desire to cook great food then this is the book for you. It breaks cooking down and simplifies everything. I have made many of these dishes and my family now considers them ours. I love the fajita recipe and the "guacomole is hot" and the "Black Bean Salsa". These recipes are loaded with flavor and I go to them again and again. I have given this book many times for wedding showers.
This is one of my 'dirtiest' cookbooks. This means that it has been used, used, used! I have so many 'go-to' recipes which came from this book and they fill such a wide range. Strawberry shortcake, cilantro and black bean pestos (make them both so that you use the entire bunch of cilantro!), grilled butterflied lamb, fajitas, I can go on and on and on....
Purchased this book become the Silver Palate Cookbook the our guidebook for special / holiday meals and was hoping New Basics would be as useful to our day to day meals but this wasn't too be. It's a fine cookbook, but there are numerous other cookbooks which provide recipes which were quicker, tasty, with more complete nutritional information.
I’ve had this book for years, and always go back to it for great basic ideas. I have several of Julie and Sheila’s cookbooks and they never disappoint.
Absolutely the best cookbook on my shelves. For years.
my dear friend Rosary gave me this -- my first cookbook -- and I managed to lose it during some blasted move or other!
some of these recipes are superb.OF NOTE: sheila lukins's eggplant/chevre/bechamel lasagna bomb CHANGED my freaking LIFE.
a note on the production: as with The Silver Palate Cookbook, this book's line drawings are completely charming.
the lack of any photographs of finished products is a huge, HUGE bummer, especially because some of the recipes are so unfamiliar to me.
basically, cooking their recipes is a leap of faith, both for the flavor profiles and the lack of reassuring photographs.
I love that this offers basic information on common ingredients, buying advice, and suggests seasonings to complement many of the foods.
The text is tiny and crowded in to make room for oversized titles and goofy 1980's-style border designs, which are distracting and make it feel more disorganized than it probably is.
A plain layout like those used in older cookbooks would have been much better, especially since there are no photographs to accommodate.I don't care for the recipes, either, but I'm not sure that's either here or there since it's largely a matter of taste, and the recipes aren't the focus of the book.
Kip is now a friend, so I'm going to start reviewing cookbooks -- Yay!This is one of my favorite go-to cookbooks. When my friends were getting married in the late 90s, this is the cookbook I gave them as shower presents. Some of the recipes are dated and a little high in fat, but the techniques presented are timeless. A lot of my "standard" recipes come from this book. My pizza crust, pizza sauce, garlic vinagrette, cheesecake are all from this book. This is a collection I go to when I need ideas for parties. A very good read!
I was staying in a wonderful apt. on the cape (a vacation rental) and found this book in the cupboard. With very little access to my usual cooking items (spices, etc) I needed a simple recipe, with few ingredients, that was healthy and tasty. I tried pasta with sardines, olive oil, fennel, raisins, pine nuts and parsley. It was so good that I bought the book, and now eat this regularly at home. I do need to try some of the other recipes, but this one recipe alone was worth the purchase of the book, and my unequivocal endorsement.
This was a staple in my house when I was growing up, and I have my mother's copy with food stains and hand-written notes throughout. There are many recipes in here that I love to make as they are comforting familiar treats from my childhood, and many others that I've discovered as an adult. This is always a source of inspiration for parties or breaking out of a cooking rut, and I recommend it highly!
Crammed with breads, salads, vegetable, grains, desserts, savories, seafood and soup. Simple and easy. Also has simple charts about the different kinds of grains, fish, greens, nuts, pastas, etc. their qualities and how to cook or use them. Good diagrams: like how to properly cut and shell a lobster and how to carve poultry, and cut meat. The tarragon chicken salad and carrot-dill soup are favorites.
For a number of years, this was my go-to reference cookbook -- when I needed to know what to do with a celery root, when I was looking for a recipe for coq au vin. At the time, its new wave takes on classic dishes seemed refreshing. Now these twists feel a little dated to me, but it's still full of sound and useful advice on food preparation and entertaining, and it's well organized, so I'll often start there, even if I don't always end up there.
I love this book, it,s one of my favourites, I,ve got many!!! I found it in a bookstore when on a trip to Canada many years ago. Being English the style of cooking and recipes were a revelation to me, such fresh tasty food, all carefully explained . This was back in the day before I found amazon and suchlike, so I have always treasured it. I now have several by the same author and her partner in crime, Sheila Lukins, love them both .x
In many ways this was the cookbook that taught me how to cook. I cut my teeth on their lasagna and Moroccan chicken. However the book hasn't aged well. I rarely turn to it these days, and when I do I leave a little disappointed. Its not a bad book and it can still help you learn the basics however the recipes are very 1980s - a little too much for my tastes these days.
I know it's a little silly to review cookbooks here, but this is a really great one. It's reasonably priced and makes a nice gift. There are no shortcuts, yet the recipes are not needlesly complicated. One of the authors owns a B and B in Saugatuck, Michigan, and Chris and I went there for our first anniversary. Guess whose idea that was?
This is one of those books which makes a perfect gift for someone who is getting into cooking. The included recipes are very basic and written in such a way that anyone can follow them. If you're a versed home cook, you may find the contents pretty tedious. It does live up to its title, in that it covers the basics of cooking (albeit most of which is not too "new" any longer).
All recipes I have had/made from this cookbook have been GREAT! Unfortunately, for me anyway, it is not really an 'everyday' type of cookbook- there are a lot of ingredients in most recipes, they are not 'quick' and definitely not particularly healthy. It is sort of a special occasion/things to take to a party or dinner kind of cookbook for me.
Provides, for its time, strikingly different interpretations of tried and true favorites. Recipes align with my own preference for strong flavors--many of them showstopping, "wow" recipes. I've been relying on The New Basics for almost 20 years and it still is the first cookbook I reach for.
Even I, who really don't know how to cook, have had success with these wonderful recipes. Love the spinach, broccoli and boursin timbales (pg 285).Also recommend THE SILVER PALATE COOKBOOK by the same authors.
This was my first REAL cookbook and it was given to me by a much admired cousin who is an exceptional cook. She and the silver palette are responsible for my current label as foodie! This is where it all began. Uppercrust potatoes are THE BEST potatoes ever! And I mean that!
My wife and I got this cookbook as a wedding gift. After the ceremony we moved to Los Angeles. Not having a lot of extra cash to spend we used this book as our entertainment. We have made over a hundred recipes from it. And most of them are fantastic.Especially the meatloaf.
My paperback edition is well used and unfortunately falling apart, so I got a hardback copy. Ingredients in this are easier to find that those required in the Silver Palate. I often give this as a gift to those starting a new household since it contains so many handy tips.
This book has been my go to book for many years, I have enjoyed it very much. There are many good recipes in it. Some of the recipes call for more work than I want to do but with some tweeting I have been able to come up with many excellent meals.
This book is quite dated but contains tons of recipes and great information on everything to do with cooking, baking and everything that goes along with it. Library sale find, and I have to say quit a nice one.
This is the cookbook I use more than any other! It has not only regular recipes, but also interesting ones that don't require wacky ingredients! My all-time favorites are the Pesto-Walnut Risotto, Chicken Curry with Asian Pears, and the Macaroni and Cheese. Yum!
