https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25346.Out_of_the_Dust
Karen Hesse's Out of the Dust (1998 Newberry Medal winner) is a poignant coming of age story chronicling a young woman's struggle with loss and hardship during Oklahoma's Dust Bowl. Written in blank verse, its rhythm somehow matches the spare landscape and emotional toil of the protagonist. It's an easy and quick read, but worthwhile. 3.5 stars rounded up.
The other day, just out of the blue, I was hit with the thought, "Remember that book about the Dust Bowl you read for school ages ago, and hated with a fury?
This was probably the most boring book I have ever read.
(Granted, it takes place in the Great Depression, but still.) No character seemed to have any personality whatsoever.The writing style annoyed the living hell out of me.The story dragged on and on.And the only reason I didn't DNF this was because I needed to read it for a grade.*rolls eyes into the back of my head*Basically just:
Yes, this won that medal (1998) because the beautiful verses toned down the gloom and sadness that even a middle-age man Asian guy like me felt while imagining what happened to the Kelby family during the Oklahoma Dust Bowl in 1934-1935.
The Joad family has 2-4 healthy men unlike here where there is only the father Bayard who works alone in the farm but unfortunately gets cancer in the middle of the story.
This book is so depressing I wanted to shoot myself.
will someone tell me why this is written in verse??
it doesnt add anything to the feel of the book; if anything, it is distracting and seems very contrived.
why would this character be writing poems??
it would make so much more sense to write this as diary entries.
maybe because poems take up more room so you can get away with writing less to make up a full book??
no one knows.
that being said, i liked this, but its not going to earn a place on my childrens book wall of fame.
its kind of horrifying - man against nature and man losing woefully.
“The way I see it, hard times aren't only about money,or drought,or dust.Hard times are about losing spirit,and hope,and what happens when dreams dry up.” When I look for books for my children, I quite frequently end up buying one book to explain and illustrate another.
I had bought The Dust Bowl: An Illustrated History to give them (and myself, as I always end up reading their books as well) a new perspective on the Great Depression era, and this small children's novel in verse seemed to be a perfect complement to offer a more personal, direct approach to history through fiction.
This is a must read children's book for me. I loved it as a kid and I loved jumping back into it. If you haven't read it, I highly recommend.
This book is a work of fiction, but the author based it on a conglomeration of stories from real life that she had taken from newspaper accounts of the Dust Bowl between the years 1920-1935.
It wasn't until the dust turned toward the house,liked a fired locomotive,and I fled,barefoot and breathless, back inside,it wasn't until the dusthissed against the windows,until it ratcheted the roof,that Daddy woke.This YA novel won the prestigious Newberry Award and was a book my older daughter read in middle school.
It taught me in simple terms how the Dust Bowl came into being.
But after reading this book last year, I was amazed that Karen Hesse wrote something emotional for children to love and to learn by reading, not in prose but in verses.Imagine a depressing book for children!
She wanted green fields and flowers that blooms and smelled like the morning but a very tragic happened, a great drought soon came and started a dust storm that killed the plants, the animals, her friends, family and even her dreams.
While reading the book I was like reading in proses, Hesse didn't used rhyming words and the book is specially crafted for children."the way i see it, hard times aren't only about money, or drought, or dust.
I read this book (historical fiction told in prose poetry) yesterday.
It would've stayed in my memory and I probably would've gone on to read Steinbeck's The Grapes of Wrath when I got older.
(I still need to do that!) While the accident this family experiences is horrific, I think the image that will stay with me is the narrator and her father caught in a dust storm as they are driving to a funeral.
This is the kind of thing fiction can sometimes do better than history, placing you in a world you know nothing about and causing you to feel and see what is happening around you, almost as if you were there.
Yeah... Well, I think it is a good read if you wanna be hella depressed and wanna know about the Dust Bowl, otherwise, I don't rec it...
Karen Hesse, in her 1998 Newbery Medal book Out of the Dust, gives us a glimpse of the rigors of farm life in the Depression-era, Dust Bowl Oklahoma through the eyes of Billie Jo as her father scrapes a meager living out of the parched, drought-stricken fields while she grieves the accident that kills her mother, maims her own hands and left alone deals with her own pain amidst the constant gust of dust storms that razes everything on its path, even the feeble resolve of the Panhandle farmers.
Book number 4, I mean 6, on my Young Adult whirlwind reading binge.
I think these books are making my head go softer than it already was.
This book didn't do much for me.
I like that the reviews that I glanced at for this book all called this really depressing.
I didn't find it all that depressing, the most depressing thing in the book I think was lifted from Woody Guthries life, opps.
I don't really know about the structure of the book.
I can see this book being very very dangerous in the hands of awful middle school English teachers.
Out of the dust...And into the trash
Maybe I would like this more if I read it now on my own. As it is, I read it in high school and hated every second of it. Most depressing thing I've ever read in my life. I understand that living in the Oklahoma dust bowl would be horrible but that's not the depressing part...
I remember loving this book!
FABULOUS. Plus the saddest book I have ever, ever read. Glad I finally checked it off of my Newbery list!
Very interesting story set in mid-1930s Oklahoma during the times of the “Dust Bowl,” a continuous series of dust storms that rolled across the prairies, leaving ruined crops, ruined people, and ruined families in their wake.
And then, even worse than the dust, Billie Jo’s mother, heavily pregnant, suffers a horrendous accident.W A R N I N G - - - S P O I L E R SThe description of Ma’s heart-rending accident took me by surprise:The Accident I got burned bad.
It rose up from the stove to the pail and the kerosene burst into flames Ma ran across the kitchen, out the porch door, screaming for Daddy.
Billie Jo is a young girl and might not understand a lot of what is going on around her, but it is not difficult to understand what things really mean when you have the right background.
In the fifth grade this book was pivotal to my understanding of the Depression and the Dust bowl.
Told through the eyes of a young girl Billie Jo was easy to identify with even if her struggles were not.
The book flowed nicely and poems echoed one another hauntingly reminiscing the time before the trouble and looking for a hope.
Ms Hesse took a fascinating piece of history and wrote a dark and sad story about a dark and sad time, and did so with a very unique style.
She told the story in free verse through a young girl's entries in her journal.
It seemed like a book that could be used well to teach 6th graders about the Dust Bowl.
It seemed like a book that a social studies and could use, or that an english teacher could use.
It was a smart book that can be read in two hours quite easily.
Meh.
I typically do not read poetry books.
But when I do I don't like them, before this book I had never read a poetry book that I would rate a 4 star.
It was a free verse poetry book that goes through the life of a girl who loves to play the piano.
The setting of the book is in Oklahoma I believe and they have lots of dust storms and haven't had a good growing year in a very long time.
But what this girl and her father have to get through alone is amazing and I would recommend it to anyone who likes a good story.
Bleak and intense. Eventually you get into the rhythm and the audiobook worked quite well. Though I want to get my hands on a hardcopy someday.I feel that this may be a good accompaniment to East of Eden. I also still want to read The Worst Hard Time: The Untold Story of Those Who Survived the Great American Dust Bowl.
Billie Jo's father withdraws into grief and depression while Billie Jo wrestles with her own guilt and physical disability.
Ultimately, Billie Jo discovers her deep love for her father and recognizes that she has the strength of character she needs to cope with all of life's difficulies.The book is written in free verse and vividly describes the despair and loss of Dust Bowl farmers.
The resolution - that Billie Jo loves her father and is able to cope through her own strength - is unsatisfying in my mind.
Tough read.
But then the Dust Bowl was a tough time to live through.
Moments in this story are very dark and depressing.
But then the Dust Bowl was a dark depressing time.
Through most of it I felt like I was eating dust.
But then people who lived through the Dust Bowl really did eat dust.
At least I only had to eat it while I read the story.
Dust was their constant unconquerable bane and companion.What I think this story is really about is the tenacity of the human spirit to survive.
I read this book for my goodreads Newbery online book club.
It seems that I've read several books lately written in blank verse (others by Sharon Creech).
The words flow simply and easily so that I almost forget I am reading poetry.
But actually it is powerful and lovely to choose the perfect words and compress such meaning into them.
I liked the part in Out of the Dust where the town took in the homeless family and let them live in the school while the mother had her baby.
It was also a good history lesson about the Dust Bowl.
Fourteen year old Billie Jo from Out of the Dust is a memorable and unforgettable character.
A 1998 Newbery Award winner, this story of dust, poverty, tragedy, and despair is one of the saddest I’ve ever read.
Set in Oklahoma during the Great Depression and Dust Bowl years, Billie Jo endures significant tragedy, loss, and despair.
In the end, her fighting spirit, her hope in the future, and her ability to forgive are truly memorable.
This would be an excellent story to accompany a history lesson of the time period for mature middle school students and is a thoughtful and unforgettable adult read.For more reviews visit my blog: readingladies.com
Wow - I picked it up because my neice Molly had written in a letter that she was reading it.
I treated myself to a trip to the library on New Year's Eve when I got out of work several hours early and picked it up.
When I paged through it, I wasn't enthused because it was written in poetic prose format.
Didn't think I'd like it.
It was a fantastic story and told in a remarkable way.
But she is certainly growing up and in reading books like this, she's growing in all the right ways.
Great book.
February 2018 2 stars
** This contains some spoilers.The book "Out of the Dust" relates to "A Long Walk to Water", because Salva is much like Billie Jo, the protagonist of this novel, in the way that they both have to face the problem of lack of family or friend support.
Both Bille Jo and her father suffered from the sorrow caused by the lost of Ma, in addition to the burden they both hold that in some way, they are both responsible for Ma’s death.
