https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5176.While_I_Was_Gone
This story of a wife and mother suddenly revisiting her past had great moments and held my attention.
Her focus on minutia rang untrue to me, her description of her marriage and her husband was so perfect, that it made what followed wholly unbelievable.In fact, all the male characters in this book, from her husband, to Eli, to the other men in "the house" felt more like a woman's fantasy of what a man is than anyone I've actually known.Not a bad pick if you're willing to have a quick read, nostalgic for the 60s, and willing to not think too much.
She's such a normal, flawed yet admirable, totally human person, that when things start getting shockingly weird, it resonates, because it makes you wonder how you would act if you were in the same situation?I really love reading books which make you feel compassion for people who do horrible things.
It's real life, and passion fades, and you find yourself in a comfortable companionship with many rewards, but like the protagonist in this book, many married people find themselves wistfully wishing something exciting would happen - missing the flush of attraction, the ego-rush of being desired.
Somewhat unwillingly,I reread this novel for a book group.And I found details about Sue Miller's style that I had not paid attention to in my first go round.She is a master of natural description and I slowed to savor the snow falling in New England and the pleasures of walking the dogs late on an autumn evening.
Miller strikes me as both a highly moral author and one who is scrupulously honest about her characters inner thoughts and motives.
I am always a bit uncomfortable when I have read a Miller novel,but I have not missed one.
(Happy relationships are all about finding the right person, right?) I even found myself missing the dynamic of having roommates.The main problem with this book is that Miller makes Jo completely unlikable.
She is easily bored with her life and makes poor decisions based on that boredom and self-centered indulgence.
It turns out some of her decisions are misguided, and I would have relished in the character's embarrassment if I still cared about the story at all by the end of the book.The worst part is that Miller admits she didn't like Jo and began this novel because she had writer's block on another book.
I found a review by another woman on good reads and I have to say I agree with her 100 percent...She saysI liked this book until I realized that I has 1/3 of the way through and couldn't figure out where things were going.
And, I figured out I didn't like the lying, cheating central character, who was writing from her own perspective (first person) and absolutely oblivious to how she was hurting people.
Even at the end of the book, when she'd had her "epiphany," it was no epiphany, and she did not change, she just found better ways to cover up her lying and cheating.
One of the benefits to reading So Damn Much is I often forget what I've consumed, allowing me to discover it all over again.I spent the first 20 pages of While I Was Gone thinking it felt very familiar, but I couldn't quite put it all together. I was viewing the story through a veil of forgetfulness.So on this reread, I was able to invest in the characters, immerse in the world and be surprised all over again.
Three young adult daughters more or less succeeding in the real world, a successful work life, a wonderful husband, happy marriage, cute dogs, adorable house.
At the end of the book when Jo's visiting her mother, who makes her confession about Jo's father, Jo thinks to herself, "It seems we need someone to know us as we are - with all we have done - and forgive us.
This book will stay with me for a long time I think.
Comfortable, that is, until someone from her past reenters her life and causes her to reflect on a summer in her 20's (some 25 years ago) when she lived in a communal house with six other people.
Jo's recollection of this time is my favorite part of the book; it only takes up about 1/3 of the pages, and I would've really liked to have read more about that than her present life, which tended to drag on and be a bit dry at times.
I loved Joey's past story, when she was living in the house with the others.
But I felt like Joey never actually grew out of that phase, and while it was charming when she was 23, it was completely annoying to me when she was about 52 or however old she was.
I felt like shaking her and telling her to grow up at several points!
And of course her 3 daughters were becoming just like her.
If the book had just been about her 20s, I would have loved it.
Why should this slight creampuff of a novel engender so many discussions?I will say that a note in the book that rang false was the protagonist's marriage to a minister.
(The protagonist had a brief starter marriage, fled her husband without telling anyone where she was going, lived in a communal house under a fake name, her best friend in the house was murdered, she divorced the husband, became a veterinarian, married the minister and had three daughters.) Jo is not "a person of faith." Now, I have spent a lot of time in church.
The author says in the back-of-the-book interview that she found it hard to like Jo and I agree with her.
I found Jo to be too self-centered and Daniel to be somewhat of a jerk.
I also felt the kids were spoiled.
No one in this family seems really loving.
I agree that Daniel's sermon represents a turning point and was one of the more pleasurable sections.
I do find it odd that Jo doesn't participate more in Daniel's life.
She observes, she tolerates, she takes a vicarious pleasure in it, but she's not part of it.
This book was in places very beautifully written but for all of that I found the heroine and the choices she made quite selfish.
Here's a woman with a loving husband, a prosperous career she loves and not a worry in the world.
This made her very difficult to sympathize with and made me want to strangle her.
I did enjoy the fact that in the end her "problem" was going to stare her in the face for a good number of years to come.
Serves her right, if you ask me .
The comfortable life of a middle aged woman is disrupted when she meets up with an old acquaintance. So far, so potentially boring. And there were indeed times when I wanted to give up on this story, when I didn't really care what happened to the characters. But Sue Miller has a gift for describing detail that drew me in completely. She places the trivia of our lives under the microscope and the resulting analysis is just so accurate. A great writer - she just needs a better story.
I loved this book! Very well written by Sue Miller, astonishing story. Really makes you think, do you really KNOW anyone?? Everyone has a dark side and what can be unleashed in extreme anger and frustration is quite frightening...
The narrator--a middle-aged woman, veterinarian, mother of two grown daughters, wife of a pastor--explores her own life from the vantage point of an intense personal crisis.
Memories--from college days in the 60s--catch up with her, though one suspects she slows the forward pace of her immediate life so that they will certainly overtake her.
Sue Miller's past-becomes-present plot isn't original, but the writer's rendering of an old scheme caught this reader, also a college student in the 60s, close to home.
Bringing any book to an ending can be difficult, and Miller's otherwise beautiful flow of writing halts somewhat in the last third of the novel--hence four stars instead of five.
"A Man in Full," Tom Wolfe's enormous and otherwise wonderful book, concludes as though the writer were running late for an appointment.Unfortunately, the same could be said for Sue Miller's engaging new novel, "While I Was Gone." What's good about Miller's writing is remarkably good.
Miller moves so expertly through her delicate portrayal of Jo's life in the first 200 pages that it's difficult to understand why she barrels through this complex, exciting material toward the end.The other problem is that the character of Jo's husband, whom Miller has designed so expertly, reacts with baffling iciness to his wife's temptation to commit adultery.
In any given day, there are an infinite number of things I would like to get away from -- phone calls, traffic, laundry, work.
Sue Miller gives a lot of examples of things she runs away from.
She runs away from home when she was eight or nine years old; she leaves her first husband and her family; she leaves her grimacing husband holding the twins -- two wailing babies crying out to her -- for work, where she forgets about them; and during the day she runs away from the reality of the present to the wonders of her fantasies, especially once Eli, a roommate from her days of being Licia, comes back into her life.Jo's also a very hard character to know.
I found much of the narrative to be a little trite, and sometimes too "Harlequinesque".
Perhaps because it was so often explained after incidents occurred.
For instance, her daughter, Sadie, is responsible for getting her involved with another character, but when problems develop between them, the effect this might have on Sadie doesn't even occur to her.No matter how understanding I tried to be of Jo's growth process, I couldn't develop any fondness for the heroine.
The fact that she finally seems to accomplish this in the end was, for this reader, too little too late.
Each one seems better than the last.This book, _While I was Gone_, isn't a mystery book but there's a bit of mystery in it which keeps you reading.Below is a quote from the book which gives us some food for thought:p.266: "Perhaps it's best to live with the possibility that around any corner, at any time, may come the person who reminds you of your own capacity to surprise yourself...
Who reminds you that what seems to be -- even about yourself -- may not be."The main character in the book, told in the first-person, does a lot of reflecting about herself and others...
I'm two-thirds of the way through and am not sure how I feel about this book.
I think I'm hitting a slump with it, the action is stalling and I'm not sure where it is going.
It has been interesting reading about a mother/wife who is at the point in her life where her daughters are grown and moved out of the house.
It makes me think about how I will handle that stage of my life someday.
UPDATE: A year or so ago I read a book by Sue Miller called The World Below.
I really enjoyed that book, and was eager to read more by her.
This book creeped me out but I love Sue Miller's style.
Onvan : While I Was Gone - Nevisande : Sue Miller - ISBN : 345443284 - ISBN13 : 9780345443281 - Dar 304 Safhe - Saal e Chap : 1999
A few favorite passages:"You might have thought I was slumming, taking such a job, and of course, in a way, that would be fair.
All the things I'd prepared myself to to and promised others I would do.""It wasn't that I had been conscious of falsifying myself when I was living my other life.
I think, in fact, that I was barely conscious of having a self in that world.
What I remember is later, when I wasn't willful anymore: the inner calm of knowing I was satisfying expectations, I was pleasing.
Meeting him again stirs up her memories of those long-ago days of freedom, of irresponsibility.
In a very quiet, measured, yet utterly engrossing way she leads us through the labyrinth that Josie has made of her life, exposing also the instability that lies beneath the surface of her outwardly placid marriage to Daniel.
Josie has to face the fact that she hasn't been living up to her own ideals; but then Daniel doesn't quite match the ideal image she's created for him either, behaving like an absolute prig at a time when he, more than anyone, should understand that what she needs from him is comfort and support.
This novel is a psychological examination of the main character who is narrated in a very reflective first person style.
This psychological unveiling is why I loved this book!Sue Miller really understands people.
Her insights into human behavior is startling at times in its accuracy.
With loaded word choices her sentences lay heavy with meaning.
I would be interested in anything she has written or will write.
Miller does remind me some of Berg.
Where did it go?It went into making them wonderful.
Making them who they are." (p.12)"Who reminds you that what seems to be-- even about yourself -- may not be.
I thought this one was a bit clunky at first.
It didn't begin to flow for me until about the third chapter, but once it did, I sopped it up pretty eagerly.
The book deals with selves.
The ones we were, the ones we've become, and the ways we choose to incorporate our pasts into our present lives.
It deals with self-justifications of the shameful, hurtful or otherwise negative actions we play out.
Part of what I really enjoyed about this book came from knowing so little about it when I started.
We can tell God. Because of the cross, God will accept us.
How good does that feel?Notes: (1) “It was only as I began to startle and disappoint others that I was aware of myself at all—that I came to understand, slowly, that I wasn’t who I had pretended to be.
And memory is a kind of new birth, within each of us.“ (110)(4) Miller really makes you work for the pay off (5) Personal note: when we do something awful, unspeakable, we want someone to understand.
MIller brings this out (211)(6) “It seems we need someone to know us as we are—with all that we have done— and forgive us.
Personal note: can I call it, or what?

I like a book that is full of believable characters and this is one of them. Took me a bit to really get interested in the story, but once I did I couldn't put it down. Stayed up until 2 am to finish it. I figured there would be more to Dana's murder than it seemed there was at first. Actually wondered if she had killed herself and one of the other housemates witnessed it but didn't say anything. Looking forward to trying another book by the same author. Not sure what else she has written.
