https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1546165.This_Side_of_Innocence
It's set in rural New York State after the Civil War. It's a page turner, plus this time, I noticed all of the commentary about the change from an agrarian economy to an industrial economy and the resulting effects on social relations.
Since that is the economic reason why the Civil War was fought (simply put, the South was holding the whole country back and it was no longer content with just the South, it also wanted the West, too), I guess Taylor Caldwell had her facts straight.
I bought this, along with two bags of books, at the annual Saranac Lake Free Library Winter Carnival book sale.
$22.50 for two bags of books isn't too bad.
A very dated novel, Caldwell sometimes veers off into extensive philosophical or social posturing, leaving one to wonder what is happening with the characters. Some of this extra writing is alright, but I felt most was excessive, since it seemed to spoon-feed her personal viewpoint to the reader. I was also concerned about much of the description of costume and setting for the early period of the book, which is set in the early 1870s in New York State. Her description of dress was almost Victorian, rather than shortly after Lincoln's assassination. Ditto her description of house interiors.
All the elements of a Romantic story, love, passion, revenge, hatred and of course greed. Taylor Caldwell, delves deep into each character, displaying them with all their weaknesses as well as strengths.The book deals with the question of Industrialisation, its effects on Society as compared to Agrarian Society, a theme which must have dominated the Eighteenth Century thought in England.
Taylor Caldwell explores the psyches of Innocence & experience. Of manipulators & the manipulated... ties it up neatly in a romance that was scandalous in her era.
Brought home to re-read again. (sometime)
Not as politically minded as some of Ms Caldwell's books but a strong tale of fear, hate and love and their relationship to each other.
What sets Amalie apart from the ordinary gold digger is that she informs her husband beforehand that she is not in love him and is only marrying him to avoid a future of penury in a society that offers no opportunities for women of her background.
While most of the action centers around Amalie and her suitors, for me, the most intriguing character in the novel is the enigmatic Dorothea, Amalie’s sister-in-law, with whom the married couple shares a home.
Aside from the fact that these notions are somewhat disagreeable to me, I found them to be an unwelcome distraction from an otherwise riveting tale of family drama and intrigue.
I am reconciled with Caldwell because we took my daughter's name from her book "Great Lion of God". We are all, not at the same time, influenced by logic. It will, does often intise us to listen. No one should take happiness at another's expense. We often let "imponderables' confuse us. But then we choose to be confused and even logic will confuse us.
Far too verbose. Generally neurotic and unpleasant characters. Some interesting thoughts and ideas, but I don't have any idea why I once enjoyed her books so much.
One of the best books I've ever read.
A very dated novel, Caldwell sometimes veers off into extensive philosophical or social posturing, leaving one to wonder what is happening with the characters. Some of this extra writing is alright, but I felt most was excessive, since it seemed to spoon-feed her personal viewpoint to the reader. I was also concerned about much of the description of costume and setting for the early period of the book, which is set in the early 1870s in New York State. Her description of dress was almost Victorian, rather than shortly after Lincoln's assassination. Ditto her description of house interiors.
First read in 1975, during my first "Caldwell phase" - I don't really remember much about it other than that it's made up of the ingredients that made many of Caldwell's novels into bestsellers, focusing on ambition, power, money and familial enmity - a mix that's still popular today. This book supposedly sold something like two million copies in its first couple of years, perhaps due to the suggestiveness of its title - I seem to recall suggestions that it was a bit 'racier' than the usual Caldwell fare.
I only kept reading this book because I wanted to know what happened to the characters. Before I tossed it, I looked again at the title and author and was surprised to see that it was Taylor Caldwell (a famous author) that wrote it. I probably won't read anything else by her. It was full of philosophizing about the industrialist era, and anti-God talk, which I don't like.
This a re-read from my younger days---Taylor Caldwell was a favorite of my mom's--then mine---I even named my daughter Taylor after this author. (In 1981 BEFORE Taylor became a popular girl's name) Have a dictionary by your side for new vocabulary and be prepared to read sentences again to really grasp the author's meaning.
O, Taylor Caldwell ! A ditzed attempt at Bronte & Edie Wharton (music : George Beverly Shea). Dont mix up w The Age of Innocence. Grandparent luvved Caldwell. Caldwell was on heroine/heroin.
Hate to admit that I enjoyed reading this. Was not able to put it down but will forget next week.
The biggest fiction seller of 1946. Set shortly after the american civil war when the aristocracy was concerned that they would loose control because of the industrialization.
bestseller 5/12/46
