https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18869988-the-infernal-world-of-branwell-bront
When an Aunt came to look after all the children, on the death of their mother, she did not even think it necessary to include Branwell in her will (which was to have severe ramifications when she died.) Perhaps the first indication that Branwell was different, and possibly would not find it easy to make his mark in life, comes from the accounts of him attempting to attend school.
The Bronte siblings had a sad early life: their mother and two older sisters passed away when Branwell, Charlotte, Emily, and Anne were all children.
But whereas the Bronte sisters make it a point to earn steady incomes and write books, Branwell can't stick to one project, job, etc.
After that failed job, Branwell spends his time abusing alcohol and laudanum while his sisters make a living through their writing and teaching.
As for the sensitivity and family deaths, his sisters went through the same things he did, so what prompted them to soldier on and him to just give up?
Daphne, is there anything you cannot write? Brilliant account of the wayward Bronte boy. This really did expand my knowledge of the Bronte's childhood, their relationships with one another and their creative output. Branwell certainly had an interesting life, but for me the most interesting thing was reading about his influence on Charlotte, Emily and Anne. I feel like I have a much deeper insight into their works. Highly recommended.
Even the very fact that du Maurier's Preface pays tribute to the 'unsurpassed' Life of Charlotte Brontë as the definitive word on the family emphasises her book's vintage, given that for many years Mrs Gaskell's once respected book has been filed under fiction.It was fascinating however to read in Infernal World the push-pull between biographer and subject.
There is a distinct flavour of cherry-picking to suit her own theories, so Anne Brontë's Agnes Grey is deemed to not be intended as a realistic depiction of the Robinson family as du Maurier is sure that Anne would never have suggested her brother to come work at Thorp Green had her employer been as likely to lead him astray as the Murrays in Agnes.
In the last years of his life, it seems that Branwell (or P.B. Bronte, as he always signed his letters) concocted a romance between himself and his former employer’s wife; it was meant to explain his termination as a tutor to the Robinson family, and also served (as du Maurier pieces together) as an artful form of manipulation to extort money from friends.
And yet, du Maurier argues, it could have been so different; like his family, she seems to think his creative output, his imagination and energy had marked him out for something better.For years I’ve known of Branwell as the brother who got painted out of the Bronte family portrait; in truth, he painted himself out.
Her storytelling ability is well used here, her writing is excellent, and her research shows, as the book is full of apt quotations from Branwell's own works (poetry and letters) as well as those of his sisters and friends.On the other hand, she's just full of bizarre off-the-wall theories, from thinking that Branwell helped write Wuthering Heights to supposing that maybe he made sexual advances to his young pupil, Edmund Robinson, rather than to his mother Lydia, as usually supposed.
A marvelous portrait of a brilliant and precocious child who failed to thrive as an adult.

This is not a criticism of Daphne du Maurier's writing but more due to the lack of definitive facts about the subject.
Although du Maurier says that she does not think her subject was quite as bad as he has been made out to be (although she quotes many previous authors who also appear to think the same, so where does this reputation come from?), she only mentions in passing his drunken behaviour and mostly accuses him of making things up, and being lazy.
Admittedly he wasn't very good at holding down a job, but he just wanted to be a famous writer.
In fact if you look at Charlotte and her predisposition to both severe migraines and fantasy being inseparable from reality, you might be forgiven for thinking she also was a sufferer of a particular type of epilepsy.
Whatever Branwell suffered from health wise - and if it was a form of epilepsy then Patrick Bronte was probably right to keep it quiet (bear in mind that well up into the 1950s and 60s in UK, epileptics were often shut quietly away by their families who didn't know what to do with them.
Ironically though, while all of them, Charlotte, Emily and Anne got their share of fame, Branwell alone perished in anonymity and died a lonely death at the shockingly young age of 31.The most interesting part of the book is that it raises speculations on whether Charlotte's Bronte's Wuthering Heights was actually Branwell's brain child.
While the three Bronte sisters, Emily, Anne and Charlott met with great literary success with Wuthering Heigths, Agnes Grey and Jane Eyre, biographers suggest that it was actually their genius brother Branwell Bronte who was behind it all.
I should say 2.5 stars - between "it was ok" and "I liked it" - it was ok and I liked it because it was written by du Maurier, but I don't like Branwell Brontë
Daphne du Maurier renders a sympathetic portrait of a tragic and tortured soul who, despite early promise, descended into illness, addiction, and self-defeating behavior.
We have probably all known someone like Branwell, bright but deluded, with failures resulting from the damning combination of poor constitution and poor choices.Some less favorable reviews of this biography criticize its speculation, but I appreciated du Maurier's fleshing out of Branwell's behavior and character.
His "infernal world" is the lens through which he might best be understood, and du Maurier effectively threads this theme to unify the work.
This was a lovely biography dedicated to Branwell, the neglected sibling when it comes to non-fiction work.
I will have a full review of this on my blog, and it goes live on Wednesday, so definitely give it a follow if you're interested in reading more.
Although, as someone who is aware of their lives, I quite like the style du Maurier adopted.
Another issue that annoyed me was du Maurier unnecessary and unwarranted comment on Anne's literary merit.
It was just a stupid, unnecessary comment that furthers the notion that Anne is the forgotten and less talented sibling.
You spend the book torn between wanting to wrest him away from his dodgy cronies and telling him to get over himself.
While anxiety about his epilepsy is understandable, treating him like a precious snowflake meant he couldn't cope with the outside world.
Du Maurier clearly adores the Brontes, and wanted Branwell to be an undiscovered genius; as it becomes apparent he wasn't, she very visibly loses patience with him, and interest in her subject.
Though I love Daphne's writing, it's worth wondering if she would have received such a boost without her family pedigree; Branwell had no such advantage.
This book is as much about the whole family as it is about Branwell; Daphne du Maurier provides great insight into the unromantic anxieties and realities of their everyday lives.
What I took away most from this book is that the Brontës were not the isolated, wasting creatures living on the desolate moors of Yorkshire we often imagine them to be.
It is my impression (from reading this book) that the Brontës sought to bend reality throughout their lives to their liking by sheer force of will; for Branwell, failing to do so meant death.
Imagine my delight when I found she'd written a biography of Branwell Brontë.I read somewhere once a description of du Maurier's fiction as 'romantically macabre.' Poor drunken Branwell perfect suits her world of Light Gothic.Is it a great biography?
Certainly there are far more accurate and current Branwell/Brontë books available now (du Maurier wrote hers in the 1960s).
But for nostalgic delight and the way my two obsessions dove-tailed in the 80s, I was compelled to pay homage to this book.If you know du Maurier only through her fiction writing (hello, Rebecca, I'm speaking of you) or wonderfully cheesy movies (again, "Rebecca"), then it's a fun turn to read an example of her non-fiction writing.
Das Geschwister-Thema ist für Daphne du Maurier von besonderer Bedeutung (siehe THE PARASITES), so dass es nicht allzu sehr verwundert, dass sie sich - meines Wissens als eine der ersten Biografen - Branwells Leben monografisch annimmt.Doch ist die Gattungsbezeichnung "Lebensroman" ernst zu nehmen und wenig beleuchtet du Maurier die sozialen Hintergründe und die Ursachen der hohen Sterberate bei Kindern.Mit heutigen biografischen Standards kann das Buch nicht konkurrieren, und zumindest in der deutschen Übersetzung klingt die Sprache sehr umständlich.
Quite interesting to read about the "forgotten" Brontë. Branwell was a genius but troubled by a desire to create great works and then overshadowed by the success of his sisters. In a lot of ways, he was an instigator or creative influence for his sisters.It is unfortunate that Branwell never was able to publish his "world" into a novel, as it would have been interesting.Du Maurier's writing was only so-so, but this was still an interesting read, especially for someone becoming more and more infatuated with the Brontës.
This was an interesting biography of Patrick Branwell Bronte. du Maurier did a good job with presenting her research circa 1960. Many other biographies have been written since then but, this is a very informative introduction to a tortured and creative person. If Branwell had been able to get the help he needed, he would have been one of the brightest stars of the 19th century. Since it was the 19th century, the help he needed was not at hand.
I thought this was so interesting to read. I was curious about Branwell since you usually only hear about the sisters and I ended up really enjoying this book even though it's hard to say what's true and what isn't.
His writing remains unpublished for good reason, and even Du Maurier described this particular attempt as "lamentably lacking in inspiration." Why she devoted so much effort to immortalizing Branwell and what she calls his "lame couplets" remains unclear.
Later on, his sisters drew very effectively upon these writings as fruitful source material for their famous novels, however their worlds of Angria and Gondal (which, interestingly, Du Maurier used as a private code word with her own sisters) existed in large part as a mutually-shared mental retreat that any or all of them could return to whenever they desired.
Una biografía que me ha dejado más interrogantes que respuestas.Sin embargo la recomiendo a todos aquellos que admiramos el trabajo literario de las hermanas Brontë.
Pues si han perdido su vida han acabado su trabajo y ya no les molestará el sufrimiento ni la necesidad, y nunca durmieron en lecho terrenal un sueño tan profundo, como el de ahora, sin sueños, yaciendo  donde la noche y el Silencio sellan cada puerta guardada; así aparta de éstos tu cabeza inclinada y lamenta al muerto vivo - cuyo espíritu vuela, cuya vida parte antes de que llegue la muerte - que no encuentra un Cielo más allá de los melancólicos cielos de la Vida, que no ve esperanza para abrillantar aquella melancolía; es Él quien siente el gusano que nunca muere:  la muerte y la oscuridad REALES de la tumba Northangerland
She did so with such compelling writing and lack of referencing that anyone taking this book as fact rather than fiction is likely to be misled.Coming to this after reading Dr Juliet Barker’s more modern tome on the Brontes, I’m not sure why I expected to find something new.
In this book you’ll discover far more about the author than the subject.In the preface of the edition I read the author even stated that Branwell was “loved” by his family prior to falling to alcoholism – and not afterwards.
Branwell's mother died when he was young, several sisters died before he was grown, and although he was adored and coddled as a child by his father, a parson, and his aunt who came to live with them, he lost his religion and never reached any of his family's or his own expectations for himself.
But when later Branwell tried to get his own work published, all refused his voluminous, depressing poetry and stories.
Having been fired under a cloud of 'despicable behaviour' from a job as a tutor, he languished, drunk and depressed.
What a sad life.
After I read Rebecca at 17, I decided I was going to read everything Du Maurier wrote, but when I saw this book on her publications list I thought, “Why would anyone care about the loser Brontë?” never suspecting that someday I would care quite deeply.
She did a good job bringing a shape to his story, even if some of her theories are a bit far-fetched.
I’m not one of those people who think he was the one who really wrote Wuthering Heights, but instead I’m moved by the story of his brilliant potential wasted by addiction and mental illness.
His poetry particularly is often vivid:“Backward I look upon my life,And see one waste of storm and strife,One wrack of sorrows, hopes and pain,Vanishing to arise again!That life has moved through evening, whereContinual shadows veiled my sphere;From youth’s horizon upward rolledTo life’s meridian, dark and cold.”The secondary materials included – a large bibliography, notes, sources, and a list of Branwell’s manuscripts – are extensive, and it is clear that du Maurier did an awful lot of research on and around her subject before putting pen to paper.
Through du Maurier, one really gets an understanding of Branwell’s personality, as well as learning of his hopes and fears.The Infernal World of Bramwell Bronte is extremely well set out, and is easy to read.
This is a biography about the life of the troubled Brontë brother, by the remarkable Daphne Du Maurier.
Du Maurier has scoured Branwell Brontë's notes and letters for clues of what led to his degeneration, and ultimately to his death.
He was deeply affected by the death of his mother and his two older sisters.
But after having read this book, part of me wonders if this boy also got caught somewhere in between being spoiled and having too high expectations placed on his shoulders.
The difference between them seemed to be, expecting genius from the boy and expecting nothing from the sisters.
Imagine a book that contains the following elements: Free Masons, a sequestered upbringing by an overbearing but doting clergyman in the English countryside of the mid 1800s, drug abuse, alcoholism, obsessive love, and kinship with three of the most well-known female Gothic authors of the time.
You might expect a real page turner, but you’d be sadly mistaken.
With endless pages of his vapid poetry thrown in, the only conclusion I could make was that this weak-willed, dissipated young man had an over-inflated ego filled with disillusions.
His life was as pointless as the time I spent reading about him.
Branwell Bronte was brother to famous author sisters Charlotte, Emily and Anne. He was born 200 years ago this year (26 June 1817 - 24 September 1848), so it was fitting to read this to celebrate his birth bicentenary. His was a sad life, marked by depression, alcoholism, laudanum addiction, and an unhappy early death. Daphne du Maurie’s biography has excerpts from his letters, juvenilia and poetry, showing the brilliant but tormented mind of a man who never realised his worth in art or literature - or in life. Very readable.
