https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12015.Feersum_Endjinn
Riting a revyoo as thoh I wuz Bascule seems 2 me the obveeyus cors. 1 mit even say the playd cors; the yoosd up an cleechayd cors. But a browz uv the revyoos postd on Goodreedz indicayts uderwize. I wood  thot bi now sumbudy wood  ritten a revyoo in the styl uv Bascule but it apeerz not 2 b the cays.Thayr r meny protaguniss in Feersum Endjin but Bascule iz reely the dryvin chayractr. Hez the regyoolar gi we can idennify wif. Hez the unliklee hero frust in2 sercumstansis beyond hiz understandin o
It’ll take me several steps to get there, so try to hang with me ...The world of Feersum Endjin contains too many details to paint them all, and the big picture itself is difficult to paint because you can’t stand back far enough to take it all in.
A structure is set kilometers high in the corner of one room that, seen from afar, looks like a baroque decorative gargoyle.
What Banks paints for us through the stories of Bascule and other individuals are the detailed sections--like the rooms in Serehfa--that our minds can conceive of.
It doesn't really fit in the Culture novels, but it's definitely some Hard-SF with a beautiful vision of a far old Earth filled with so many Big Ideas.
Even more physical Big Ideas keep flowing in and I reveled in it all.
:)But don't just think this is just a novel of ideas.
But the best part is breezing right past the creative spellings of words.
Which would be a real shame because this novel is a real shining star of creativity.
It reads like a fantasy adventure and mystery while having all the great trappings of a heavy SF dive.
Banks with his book "Feersum Endjinn" has given us the second science fiction novel not based upon or set within the Culture universe, the first being Against a Dark Background."Feersum Endjinn" is additionally Iain M Banks's sixth work of science fiction.Banks deals in ideas.
His first science fiction novel, "Consider Phlebas", was published in 1987, in it he created "The Culture", a galaxy-hopping society run by powerful but benevolent machines.
For the rest of his career literary novels would alternate with works of science fiction, the latter appearing under the name "Iain M Banks" (the "M" standing for Menzies).
I enjoy all of Mr. Banks's work both fiction and Science Fiction.
Banks makes us work for every page, every step of the story, and he rewards us with passages of exceptional, nearly poetic, prose that reveal his immense imagination and can set one's mind spinning into an all too feasible future Earth of massive architecture, virtual immortality, and Sun-induced, ice age Encroachment.Banks' finest and most challenging achievement in Feersum Endjin comes whenever he shifts his narrative to Bascule, the dyslexic Teller who writes his story phonetically because he can't write it any other way.
Bascule may actually be Banks' most likable sci-fi character, and his search for the talking ant, Ergates, is satisfying in its future picaresqueness.
His Culture novels have been particularly interesting, their sociological framework being unusually intelligent for the genre.This is not a Culture novel per se, though, god knows, it may fit in somewhere as pre-C in the broad canvas of Banks' imagination.
Here one wonders about how this advanced society lacks space faring capacities when it is clear that much of the population, "the Diaspora", flew off long ago.
In other respects they're quite technologically advanced, yet in still other respects they're politically and sociologically atavistic.
And then there is the overwhelming concern of the Encroachment endangering the planet.The other side of it is Banks's meticulous management of information, where the reader has to piece together what the Encroachment really is (it is not detailed until well into the book), and who Count Sessine's enemies are, and why the war is happening, and most importantly how everyone is going to fix this mess.
Keep that in mind when I tell you that this book is unreadable.The number one problem is that one of the main characters has some sort of disability and can only write phonetically.
So you have to wade through pages and pages of garbage like this:But am Bascule thi Rascule, thass whot they call me!
Am yung & am onli on my furst life I tells her, laffin; Bascule thi Teller nuffink, that's me; no I or II or VII or any ov that nonsins 4 yoors truly; am good az immortil 4 all intense & purpusses & if u cant act a bit daff when u never dyed not even 1nce yet, when can u?JESUS CHRIST IAIN WHAT WERE YOU THINKING?!?!?!?I got through about 20% of this book and the story was interesting, but ultimately I could not deal with that crap.
Set on an almost unrecognizable far future Earth, this book is Iain.
M. Banks' second non-Culture SF endevour.
Here's an example of how it reads:"Well I no that, thilly, tho u r a very feerth old hok, & gettin less blind ol thi time.
Ith ther anythin i can get u, Mr Bathcule?"Believe it or not, this makes sense when you have actually read the book.
In fact this is probably, in my opinion, Banks's best non-Culture novel.
This one will have to sit and be turned over in the mental thought-bank for a while: the difficulties of following the narrative through POV changes and the phonetically written sections made it fragment in my mind, despite me reading it at my usual tremendous pace.
I think I liked it a lot: I certainly liked the concept of the world, anyway, though on reflection I don't give much a monkey's about most of the characters.If phonetic spelling is going to annoy you, and/or be really difficult for you, don't bother with this one.
This is good.
However, my main misgiving (which also stopped me reading the book the first time I attempted it several years ago) was the phonetically written sections by a character called Bascule.
A completely confusing, weird, off-the-cuff, obscurely written tale about - umm - multiple existences, space elevators, talking chimeric creatures, artificial intelligence, a world about to be extinguished by something called 'The Encroachment' (space fog about to obliterate the sun), saviors (Bascule and his talking Ant are some of these), and other tangential things.
It needs to be re-read, having slowly throughout the book becoming used to the Bascule character and his phonetic writing.
Good, but odd.
Clarke’s The City and the Stars, Russell Hoban’s Riddley Walker, Mervyn Peake’s Gormenghast, and Neal Stephenson’s Snow Crash, Diamond Age, and Anathem.The most distinctive aspect of Feersum Endjinn (1994) is definitely the chapters narrated in phonetic spelling by Bascule the Teller, an amiable young man who is seeking a tiny talking ant named Ergates that was snatched away by a strange bird.
Banks’ books on audio, but strangely some of his lesser-known titles (outside the best-known CULTURE novels like Consider Phlebas, The Player of Games, Use of Weapons, etc) are not available on US Audible, but are on UK Audible.

When I finished this novel I wasn't sure if I liked it.
With a good portion of the book written in the vernacular of our grammar-challenged hero, and a whole lot of heady stuff like cyber regions and vast settings, Iain Banks isn't giving the reader an easy go of it.
I even had to seach the Internet fordiscussions on the story afterwords to be sure that what happened was what I thought had happened.Looking back after a few days I just can't help but be impressed with the novel as a whole.
So yeah, if you've read Iain Banks, you already know what a brilliant chap he is.
This, like all his other novels I've read, is worth the effort.
3.5 starsThis was quite a weird book even by Iain M Banks’ standards.
Weird, in terms of writing style (those phonetics yo!
You kind of get used to that after a while though) and also in terms of the plot directions.
If we had had less focus/page space away from these and more on the others that when the story arcs merged during the climax, it wouldn’t have felt like a waste of time in a way.I like weird, I especially love the way Bank’s played with his narrative styles so much in this and the other books of his I’ve read so far so the phonetics was just added incentive to continue on with the book.
Other than the plotting issue, all of Banks’ strength were delivered here so it was a fun book to get through.
Said humans are very long lived indeed at this point, because there's been a bit of an update to the Biblical pronouncement: it is now appointed unto a man 7 times to die, and after that to be judged (based on his uniqueness) by the "Crypt," the vast computer network / VR system that is capable of downloading all that makes an individual, and then uploading it again into a new body.
The point of view for each chapter changes from character to character, and one young lad, Bascule, who turns out to be central to the plot is writing his experiences down in a journal.
It is still a great book, but I no longer think it is grand.Although it is not a Culture books, there are some winks to Banks' preferred technologies.
It is made harder by the intercalation of the text within normal texts, as it is not so hard when you get used to it.As usual the future extrapolation and technologies are interesting and twisted, the characters are interesting, even the good guys, though the choral structure leaves some characterizations short.My main complaint is precisely that, some parts fall short, some characters are left almost blank, and the ending is too rushed and Deus Ex Machina-contrived.
Quite an enjoyable read, this!
The world Banks creates here is rich with far-future cosmological pondering and cyberpunk intrigue, but it's also flavored with absurdity and lightheartedness.
It's a great example of a rich, layered and epic world that doesn't require a bloated trilogy to come alive.
The main hurdle to enjoying "Feersum Endjinn" is that one of the characters is written in a phonetic, text message style.
Feersum Endjinn = Fearsome Engine.
At any rate, this has been one of the more enjoyable sci-fi tales I've read in quite a while.
Not sure why I didn't rate this a 5 the first time.
It's the first Banks novel I read (I believe), and it's responsible for getting me "into" the author, as well as the art of Michael Whalen, who painted the beautiful cover.
I am in the midst of re-reading it, only because I'd run out of steam on the other novel I was reading, and wanted a "sure thing".
If you can get past the one plot line that is written in its own English (definitely difficult to read), then this is one of Banks' better books, IMO.
Is it a Culture novel?
It might be, but it takes place on Earth eons in the future, where humans inhabit nanoengineered megastructures created by their ancient forbears and live in a world of technology they no longer understand.
Powerful factions on Earth are feuding over a tool that may or may not save humanity from The Encroachment, a cloud of interstellar dust that promises to cause the ultimate destruction of the planet.
It's a wonderful story.
This takes some getting used to, but by the end you'll be steaming along without any problems.
One of the most delightful main characters ever! Reminiscent of Flowers for Algernon, the main character has a learning disability, as most of the book is his mental-journal a large portion of it is written phoenetically. While this annoys the hell out of a lot of people it is easily read by the fifth page and, if not, it is worth persevering to uncover one of the most endearing characters I have ever read.
This was the first book by Banks I’ve ever read, and I suspect it may be my last unless another one rears its ugly head in the SF Masterworks collection. Every fourth section of this book was written in a strange dialect of text message short hand that was very troublesome to read, yet these sections were the best parts. On the whole the rest of the book was confusing and really didn’t engage me in any way. My advice – don’t bother with this book, it’s just too much hard work and not enough reward.
The problem with this book is that much of it is written in a pretend phonetic version of English. The very idea of this puts me right off, but it is not too hard to understand, and the whole book is so charming and the ending so fulfilling and pleasing that this difficulty is soon put aside. I think this is one of my favourite of Iain M Banks' novels.
June 10, 2018: Reading the book for the third time now, and it is even more rich, more delicious, more riveting than either of my first two readings. A work of sheer imaginative genius; I miss Banks so much.
L-am citit în limba engleză. Nici nu prea văd rostul de a-l citi altfel, mai ales datorită pasajelor cu personajul Bascule, care altfel și-ar pierde semnificativ din farmec.Proza mi s-a părut foarte bună, în unele momente chiar strălucitoare. Foarte multă imaginație la lucru aici. Din punct de vedere al poveștii, lucrurile par simple, și în afară de scenele lui Bascule, nu se întâmplă prea multe. Totuși, romanul reușește să te țină în tensiune până spre finalul extrem de dezamăgitor.Dacă nu era Bascule, îi dădeam 2 stele. Dar așa ...
I really wanted to like this book.
But this book was laborious reading, in part because of Bascule's phonetic writing, but also just the sheer amount of information and characters this introduces that don't really ever seem to get connected or necessary to the plot.
I can't really tell if I didn't understand parts of the plot because they weren't well articulated by the author or because I found the book so unpleasant to read that I didn't focus on it too well.
Stuck with it to the end, felt like the thinness of the plot didn't ultimately require so many devices.
Too baroque, too complicated, untidy. I was trying to think of a one word description of this and came up with "overwrought". It has been wrought too much. It is over-written.
The novel unfolds in groups of four chapters, with each chapter following a particular character: a mysterious woman known as the asura (a Sanskrit word for a kind of divine being or demon), a Count on his last lifetime (oh yeah, some people get seven lifetimes), a scientist trying to decipher mysterious messages (and also caught up in a conspiracy), and everybody's favorite, Bascule the Teller, who is on a quest to find his friend who is an ant (we read his semi-phonetic journal).
It occurred to me that the semi-phonetic chapters may be meant to give the reader the experience of slowing down time - it took me about twice as long to read those chapters!
It's an earth where the people live 8 lives, after which they move into a virtual world called the crypt and have 8 more lives to live there.
Considering Bascule takes up about a full quarter of the book and is consistently the most interesting part of it, by far, Iain M.
I've always been able to read text speak easily (just not able to write it), but I know a lot of people who would be put off by chapters worth of it.
I lost track of the characters more than once, because of all the duplicates of physical and virtual people running around in crypt space.
Feersum Endjinn is a work of science fiction set in a time long after the enlightened humans have left the planet and the people living on earth have some technology, not all of which they understand.
& I agreed & that woz how we decided we otter go 2 c Mr Zoliparia in thi I-ball ov thi gargoyle Rosbrith.Its interesting, albeit on a different plane, how quickly the human brain adopts to this form of written english.
Fascinating.All in all, a good book, recommended if you are into science fiction and want something a bit different.
And the setting is, for all its decadent weirdness, one we've encountered before, really—the post-historical Earth much changed due to catastrophe and time, the ancestors much wiser than we who set up autonomous systems that will Save Us All as long as we can fulfill a few simple requirements—if only we hadn't lost track of just what those requirements are!This isn't a bad book—I don't think Banks is capable of writing a bad book, from the evidence to date—and it does contain memorable lines, such as this one:"In my experience those who are most sincere are also the most morally suspect, as well as being incapable of producing or appreciating wit."—Pieter Velteseri, p.
132But Feersum Endjinn ends up being a bit more work than I think we really should be asked to perform.
