https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2330.The_Languages_of_Tolkien_s_Middle_Earth
An excellent book for those interested in J.R.R. Tolkien's created languages.
Hey, us Finns don't always have a lot to shout about!The book also includes about a dozen other languages, such as various human tongues, the Black Speech of Mordor, high ancient tongues, common speech, etc.
It takes all the words Tolkien gave us, translates them and offers some samples on how to elaborate on the fragments of the languages we have, such as verb conjugation.
Included are various glossaries, essays on Tolkien the conlanger's technique, and a Tolkien dictionary.
While not for the average reader, this book is indispensable for fantasy fiction language lovers.
I saw a guy in my math class reading this in 1996; I commented on how cool it looked, so for Christmas that guy gave me my own copy. He said he had an extra copy lying around. Earlier this year he killed himself. I will always remember him for this gift, a simple act of unnecessary kindness.
This only has a little of the data that's not in the appendix of Silmarillion.
This book enabled me, at 9, to start envisioning, designing, imagining other languages, other ways of communicating, to go with my imaginary worlds.I learned to write in elvish and a couple of runic languages Tolkien devised, then shared this with a friend, allowing us to completely bypass the limitations of school and authority. With language. Holy shit, it opened a door I'd never thought to see.I named my first horse after this book; it had that large an effect on my conciousness.
This is a great read if you're interested in Tolkien's languages.
The book is important because it was one of the first major books to be published on Tolkien's languages, but it has since become quite outdated.
Even David Salo in A Gateway to Sindarin mentions the inaccuracy of some of his data, and that book was published recently (in 2004).Having said all that, the book still provides great insight into the languages of Middle Earth and is an interesting read for those interested in linguistics and for those who wish to know more about Tolkien's world.
A relatively good book for those who want to learn a little bit about Tolkien's constructed languages.
It is now outdated, however, as more information (directly from Tolkien) about the Elvish languages in particular has been published since this book.
Good book for those who want a brief glimpse at what the languages are like, but no good for serious learners of the languages/writing systems - for that I highly recommend Helge Fauskanger's Quenya course or David Salo's A Gateway to Sindarin: A Grammar of an Elvish Language from JRR Tolkien's Lord of the Rings
A very useful guide to Tolkien's invented languages, but is mostly a tool or study-guide rather than a work that can be enjoyably read from cover to cover. It's a good one to have on the shelf for reference if you are a Tolkien fan, but I think it is aimed at the people who are interested in the "private lang" aspect of Tolkien's work more than his stories.
I want to read this again. The languages are quite difficult.
Good compilation and basic intro, but I am looking for a deeper linguistics approach. But worth the read.
You can get most of the information on this book from the Appendices in The Return of the King and The Silmarillion (can I just add how delighted I am by the fact that George R.R. Martin is referring to his work on the the Targaryen family history as the GRRMarillion? Brilliant). However, if you want a pocket-sized overview of the languages of Middle Earth, including a brief dictionary - because who does not want a pocket-sized collection of some of Tolkien's linguistic efforts? - this will do.
I see some folks calling this an "informative" read, but it isn't one for a seasoned Tolkienite. This book is terribly out of date, and is often incorrect, even when consulting sources that existed at the time of its publication. The only thing that saves it are its references for the Tengwar and Cirth. Save your money and look into David Salo's work instead. Accurate, up-to-date dictionaries like Hisweloke's Sindarin Dictionary are available online.
It was very interesting! The only thing that would have made it better is if Tolkien himself would have been able to work on it. There was a fair amount of (educated) guesswork, and there were some undefined words in dictionary, but it was still fascinating to read about the word and grammar structure and histories of his languages.
I found it very informative, especially on the subject of Westron- if you're a Hobbit lover this is a definite must-read. However, I hear that the elvish is extremely spotty and outdated. It's a really good read if you're interested in Westron and the like, but I'm not going to recommend it for the Quenyan and Sindarin.
This book was a fascinating reference source that I discovered during my middle school years. I became an instant languages-geek (even before I had studied any foreign languages). My friends and I used the writing systems in this book to pass notes to each other in class! So much fun.
Read this in Uni while studying English Syntax, mostly to help me goof around with my own made up languages for fiction.Didn't think to add this on goodreads until someone advertised it.
I'm so happy this exists.
I would like this book to be about thrice its current length.
Recommended by Brian
The Appendices for people who like to read everything twiceFavourite sentence: "Propositional elements come at the end of Quenya words..." Summarizes the now out-dated and little information of the "pre History of Middle-earth time", contains several mistakes, though.Today, there's much better stuff on the internet for free - don't buy!
This was really an excellent book! I highly recommend it! For people who want to know about Tolkien's languages, doncha know. Took my time about reading it, apparently…
While it's billed as a guide to Tolkien's fourteen Middle-Earth languages, most of it is focused on the Elvish languages Quenya and Sindarin, which is fair, because those are definitely the most developed of the languages JRRT developed.
You won't learn how to speak either from this book, but that's not the point.There are also brief sections on other languages of Middle-Earth, such as the languages of Men and Hobbits (Adunaic, Westron, etc.) and the Black Speech and the Dwarvish languages.
For the languages of Men, the book focuses more on Tolkien's invented "translation convention," and how he reflected the relationships between the thinly-sketched underlying Middle-Earth languages using his expertise in real-world Germanic languages.
Regarding the rune and letters, regarding pronunciation and the guide to the languages, this was a great book.
I know most of this information can be found elsewhere, but it is handy to have all together.Regarding the history of the languages and other info given, I did not care for it as much.
I am fairly familiar with the Tolkien world, but the author spouts off places and names that are uncommon unless you have read all History of Middle Earth books with no back info given.
Finally finished this important, although apparently somewhat inaccurate/outdated, book. It was just reading through the dictionary portion that took forever. A lot was repeated from the appendices of LOTR, and a lot was explained nicely. Some other reviewers commented on the inaccuracies and that more recent analyses now exist. I'll have to check them out. If you enjoy language and are eager to understand all facets of Middle-earth then this is a must-read. Or if you just enjoy the way beautiful words sound and feel in your mouth!
A nice starter for Tolkien's languages, though if seriously interested, please reference Christopher Tolkien's extensive work from his father's notes, The Parma Eldalamberon or The Book of Tongues. Last I checked there were 25 volumes ranging from Sindarin and Quenyan to Noldarin and Numenorean as well as the Dwarvish tongue. Ideal for philological enthusiasts and anyone intent on learning the actual grammar of Tolkien's invented languages. This is a decent starter.
What purpose is a book of languages that didn't actually exist? Well, it's not really about that. I mean, it is..but reading between the lines you see the genius of Tolkien. A man that invent numerous languages in complete form should be studied, and this book is a study independent of his Fiction. As Tolkien was a linguist by profession this book is what one would assume with any language text. And that is the genius of it.
This book is heavy on citing existing material presented in the Tolkien fiction. I was hoping for something more linguistically rigorous and able to fill in gaps where Tolkien himself didn't explicitly explain things. But that's where this book falls short. It ends up being short, dry, and mostly a dictionary that muddles together fourteen languages all at once...
This book may not thrill you, but it will provide the Tolkienite with a lot of additional detail and information about the many languages that Tolkien invented as the underpinnings of his epic story.This is basically an in-depth extension of the language section of the appendix to "Lord of the Rings" (usually found after "Return of the King" in mutli-volume sets).
This book expanded my knowledge of Tolkien's languages and I'll certainly refer to it frequently in the future. However, it wasn't very well organized and it seemed like it couldn't decide if it wanted to be quick intro for your casual fan or a more in depth analysis for linguistic nerds like myself.
This was the first book I read that treated Tolkien's invented languages seriously. Only later did I realize how sloppy and superficial it was. It has since been superceded by other, more rigorous work. I still keep it on my shelf as a reminder of my high school days, when Middle Earth was still exciting and fresh to me.
Exactly like it sounds...and dry and dull unless you have an interest in learning a make-believe language. An interesting study in the creation of a language out of one man's head, but...well, how often does that really happen?
