https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10729216-berlin-stories
At this point Robert Walser and I are like an old married couple, or, to be more accurate, I am his widow, as of course he is dead, though I remain faithful because in a sense he is still alive in his writing, and anyway his writing is really all I know of him, so perhaps we are still married, but over the years over-familiarity has set in, and though it’s not the type that breeds contempt it is the type that breeds a kind of blindness to the other’s virtues and even faults as we potter about independently but in close proximity.
Logarithms and "friend" suggestions will never totally replace the anxious and arbitrary means by which I travel from book to book.
Sure, I quipped and ignoring my haggard state of toilette - I'd been tooling around in the yard -- I grabbed Berlin Stories from atop a stack and headed out the door.
I hadn't thought of this particular tome at all lately.I was prepared to dislike Berlin Stories.
Berlin Stories is a series of sketches of the metropolis, many reflect a gaping wide-eyed perspective.
It is interesting to contrast these views of Berlin with Alfred Doblin's.I will likely pursue the other Walser works now.
A collection of essays, newspaper columns, and short stories praising and gently mocking (and sometimes not so gently mocking) the city of Berlin in the late Imperial years.
At times, he is almost gushing about his time in the theater or the street markets, and in others he is vicious.
God most be the opposite of Rodin, he says, for who else would willingly create something so ugly and strange as people?
And here he shows us strange, piteous, and somewhat sad creatures.
This collection is a strange hodgepodge.
These are pleasant stories that took place a hundred years ago when Robert Walser wrote about life in Berlin (1905-13), an invigorating and heady city compared to provincial Switzerland.
Before World War 1 he returns to his familiar, neutral Swiss homeland but continues to write more stories from that period of discovery.
In the part "Berlin Life", Walser depicts the "striving" for success and "greatness", the social classes, and some urban incidents such as a blazing fire.
Finally, the part "Looking Back" are stories written after he'd left Germany for his Swiss homeland.
I will leave the reviewing to readers better suited to deconstruct Walser than I am. I simply like the fellow. I believe he was extremely clever and interesting. I enjoy reading all of his work, but especially the four novels that have survived. There is something so childlike and simple about his work, but still sophisticated and never boring though he revisits his subjects constantly. That is pure talent.
One can feel the allure of the city, the possibilities and dreams that Walser felt in every fiber of the city—from the parks and gardens, to the people congregating on the streets, from the theatre to the literary life—and yet one can also sense an underlying melancholy, a growing sense of malaise as the pieces progress chronologically, not seeing Walser fulfill his goals, forced to return to Switzerland just on the bring of a world war.In her introduction to Microscripts, Susan Bernofsky notes that we can't know for sure when Walser began writing in microscript form.
What has become of us as a people that we can possess the beautiful only in dreams.
It may not be for everyone, but I found this collection to be some of the most beautiful, thoughtful prose I've read.From "The Theater, a Dream"A dream's voices possess a bewitching pliancy, its language is eloquent and at the same time well-considered; its images show us the magic of the enchanting and unforgettable because they are hyperreal, simultaneously genuine and unnatural.
Reading these short sketches of people and places in Berlin in the first decade of the 20th century makes the reader realize what a vibrant city it was.
Again, there is empathy and compassion for a wretched fellow human being, possessing wealth, yes, but that contributes nothing to alleviating misery.There is a progression throughout the book, and I think Walser succeeds in getting the reader to emotionally enter into Berlin in the first decade of the 20th century.
This collection of essays begins in beguiling and exuberant fashion with wonderfully enthusiastic, wide-eyed descriptions of rambles around Berlin; time spent in idle observation of the inhabitants of the city as they drink in a bar, or travel on a tram, or walk around a park.
In a fictional story, "The Little Berliner", he skewers the kind of self-satisfied arrogance that seems, almost always, to accompany great wealth.
Of particular interest are two pieces about the women he meets when he rents an apartment, "Frau Wilke" and "Frau Scheer".
The new owner is Frau Scheer, an immensely rich woman who has devoted her life to amassing more money, and avoiding both society and pleasure.
Robert Walser's Berlin Stories surprised me: I never thought I would like these mostly short pieces that, somehow, seem to me to be so slight.
And yet, as the book went on, the pieces became more profound -- especially as he looked back on his Berlin experiences.Walser was actually Swiss.
He went to Berlin with his brother to make his fortune.
His brother Karl succeeded, working as a set designer for Max Reinhardt, but Robert had a tougher time of it.
Who knows, though, in the end it was Robert who set his mark on the literature of the 20th century.
Berlin never rests, and this is glorious. Each dawning day brings with it a new, agreeably disagreeable attack on complacency, and this does the general sense of indolence good. An artist possesses, much like a child, an inborn propensity for beautiful, noble sluggardizing. Well, this slug-a-beddishness, this kingdom, is constantly being buffeted by fresh storm-winds of inspiration. The refined, silent creature is suddenly blustered full of something coarse, loud, and unrefined. There is an incessant blurring together of various things, and this is good, this is Berlin, and Berlin is outstanding. — from “Berlin and the Artist”
fascinating very short stories of walser's time in berlin 1905 to um not sure, 1920 maybe?
at only one-three pages most are very short, some more vignettes, some fully formed stories, but almost of have the bite of mark twain disdain, the beauty of chekov, the horror of will self.
love him love these.
i think these are some of the stories that were found in his affects and were thought to just be indecipherable gibberish of a madman, but one dude stuck with it and discovered that the miniscule little tiny scribblings were actually hundreds and hundreds of stories.
yeah dude!
Walser is a great thinker who produced some of the most compelling writing I know - and while his observational skill might be somewhat secondary to his introspective awareness his writing really takes flight when he combines these elements into an almost religious reverence.
Readers that know his biography should be astounded at the closing "story" beautiful executed and intelligently edited as the last words of this edition of Walser - I don't want to spoil it - but the clairvoyant claims are more than justified by these closing words.
Walser, while not simple, is one of the easiest and most rewarding writers I know.
BERLIN STORIES. (1907-1917). Robert Walser. ***. First off, you should know that these are not stories, per se, but prose impressions of various parts or people or activities in Berlin as witnessed by the author during his stay there. If you are truly looking for a story, you will probably agree that the author seems to be sliding in that direction in the later efforts. Walser was Swiss, and moved to Berlin in 1905. He had just published his first novel, and saw himself as riding on the wave of
First off, you should know that these are not stories, per se, but prose impressions of various parts or people or activities in Berlin as witnessed by the author during his stay there.
Walser was Swiss, and moved to Berlin in 1905.
Robert used his brother’s contacts to get introduced to the luminaries of the day in the German capitol.
While a resident, Walser wrote these short pieces and had them published in a variety of German newspapers.
The translator, Susan Bernofsky, is a seasoned Walser translator, and did a marvelous job of recreating these pieces into English.
There is more to it than that, with some pretty serious metaphors about what it is to be artists, how art is important to life, and why the theater can tell us so much about people, but I do really like the flaneurness of the Walser protagonist, and his exuberant voice.
But it was a great introduction to me of a truly wonderful voice, and a new set of eyes on what it is to live in the city.
a good deal of the stories in this selection have some sort of malignancy sequestered behind the soft cheer of living in berlin at the turn of the century...
i'm glad i read the assistant before this, because i was able to pick out the roots of walser's emotion a lot more clearly.
i read this collection while i was in berlin, and the streets were crawling with the ghosts of characters from walser's stories for the next week & a half after.
also important, is that he's a fucking prophet;"Our Berlin will soon burst at the seams with newness.
Excellent translations by Susan Bernofsky (and Christopher Middleton) of Walser's stories written about Berlin--most while he lived there, the last few looking back years later.
And it's the latter stories--about Frau Scheer--that are some of the most moving I've read by Walser, who often has an air of cheerful pessimism about him.
But "Frau Scheer" and the stories following are unaffected by Walser's guile (which *is* charming), writing straight down to the bone with a direct honesty unusual for Walser.
And I'm spending my time talking about this story because it feels so different from his usual style--those who've read Walser's works will know what I'm talking about.
If a paragraph expresses a "train of thought," then Robert Walser's train can be one hundred cars long.
In fact the entire first story, "Good Morning, Giantess!" is one splendid paragraph, legging along three pages effortlessly.
His solution was writing in microscript, cramming tiny letters into small spaces: A poem on a business card, a novel onto 24 sides of 6 X 9 inch paper.You realize what a wealthy vivid translation this is (mostly by Susan Bernofsky) when you see an alternate one.
Walser projects a dreamy sketch of the early 20th century Berlin through these magically spun vignettes compiled in the Berlin Stories.His succint style and beautiful writing paint a perfect picture of this lively city of Germany before the World War I broke out.
I will read anything by Walser. The writing has a strange, almost kooky exuberance, a tone that hovers somewhere between ecstasy and insanity. But he is also never free of a carefully observed, rather sad undertow, evident especially in the story "Frau Wilke." There his voice, so effervescent when observing nature, acquires a gentle despondency in the contemplation of a woman whose solitude and evident sadness his own humane instincts are powerless to overcome.
Impressions, glimpses, a series of sketches of the city in brief. Perhaps these were intended as sidebar notes, for the construction of some future narrative effort. As it is, it will take a fair amount of pre-existing knowledge of the city or a longstanding fondness for it ... to bring these into any kind of focus or pattern. Nice word-pictures; but maybe best for Walser completists.
What I liked most about this book were the city-moments, the sense of time/place/atmosphere, the briskness of Berlin streets on a cold morning or the conviviality of a restaurant or a crowded tram car or the scene of a building on fire, with onlookers multiplying by the moment. Walser is great at capturing the humanity and motion and interest of the city.
I love Walser's voice. It somehow manages to be simultaneously joyful and dejected. I have to read him slowly because I continually drift off into reveries.
Like Walser himself in “The Park” (a story written in Berlin in 1907, in the middle of a period that he would later look back on as the most creative in his life), I explain my disappointment by turning my past into a golden age:This marvelous boredom that is in all things, this sunny seclusion, this half- heartedness and drowsiness beneath the green, this melancholy, these legs, whose legs, mine?
His readings take personal experience as a starting point for general observation—for, like many lonely people, Walser is obsessed with the communal.

There are erudite reviews here from those who know Walser's writing and can offer insightful criticism and praise, whereas this was my introduction to his work so I won't attempt to analyse or deconstruct, instead merely offer my enjoyment as encouragement to others with a mind to experience the heady excitements and disappointments of early 20th century Berlin, a city of modernity, opportunities, art and culture (high and low).
I've been dipping into it for a few months, and it's ideal for such a casual approach, read here and there between forays into other types of fiction.
The stories themselves are five stars (Walser was one of Kafka's favorite writers) but since these stories were newspaper features written in a specific time and place, a little more editorial guidance and background would have helped—I know a little something about Berlin in the period between the Gründerjahre (economic boom) & WWI, but even I got lost in some of the details. The editors do provide a fine biography of Walser and how this early work influenced other German writers, particularly Kafka.
You know when you walk down a blossom infused avenue on an early summer's evening in your favourite city in the world? That was how I felt reading Berlin Stories. The whole way through. Although it's a little slow - there's no fixed plot, which at times can be delightful as you meander through Walser's darling prose, at times a little frustrating; it seems a waste of such great writing in my eyes!! - this is a lovely book to read at intervals, as you furiously annotate and underline something on every page that Walser writes.
These appear to be the columns he wrote for the Berlin newspapers; I find them undynamic sometimes, like practice runs. Microscripts however errs and wanders in more interesting ways. But he does capture the multiplicity and simultaneity of Berlin life in some of these pieces.
Not for me.
