https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/111220.Eleanor_of_Aquitaine
Weir could have spent time discussing in general terms what the life of a great Duchess and Queen would have been like, but she prefers to concentrate on the political (or family (view spoiler)[ the two are interchangeable in this case (hide spoiler)]) drama.
However as an account of the early Plantagenets, that striving bunch all struggling against one another for power, it is a decent read.Weir is an amateur historian, I spotted a couple of mistakes (using Turks as a synonym for Muslim makes no sense at all when discussing medieval Sicily and the Truce of God was not a crusader privilege it was like the similarly named Peace of God an agreement that nobles and knights swore to not to fight on certain days and not to harm certain non-combatants in the course of warfare) which makes me wondering how many there were that I didn't pick up on.
But in the end she won this battle, since she outlived him.Just a taste of Weir's great novel, where the author discusses how restrictive and how excrutianting for women Eleanor's time was:
Kings and noblemen married for political advantage, and women rarely had any say in how they or their wealth were to be disposed in marriage.
Every husband had the right to enforce this duty in whichever way he thought fit--as Eleanor was to find out to her cost.
Wife-beating was common, although the Church did at this time attempt to restrict the length of the rod that a husband might use.”
Alison Weir is very careful not to take anything for granted and examines all the evidence before making a claim about what Eleanor did at any given time, which is a good thing for a historian to do, but it also means Eleanor is not actually very present in this biography.
Take this letter she wrote to the Pope, basically tearing him a new one for not helping to free her son Richard after he was captured while on crusade:"Is your power derived from God or from men?
I never realized, though, how little I actually knew about the Plantagenets...or how wrong what little I knew was...until I read Weir's book.My only complaint about this book has less to do with Weir's impeccable scholarship and gift for narrative than it does with the scant record left behind by women, even notable women like Eleanor.
But Weir does a good job of touching base with the reader and saying (basically) the historical record does not show where Eleanor was at this time or what she was doing, but we can surmise...etc., etc.In summary, this is a wonderful book to grab a cup of hot tea and curl up with during long winter nights.
She died quietly in France at a ripe old age after leading a life of extraordinary power and influence.The book does an excellent job of investigating contemporary sources to parse out the truth from the romantic legend and the anti-Eleanor propaganda.
The one knock against the book, and this is hardly the author's fault, is that there are long periods of Eleanor's life when the contemporary sources felt no need to record her activities.
As a result, the book frequently reads more like a biography of Eleanor's husbands and sons than a biography of Eleanor herself.
At the time I seem to remember Weir saying in the introduction that it was more of a struggle to write this book than her Tudor histories due to the comparative lack and nature of sources (she relied chiefly on contemporary chroniclers, the richer biographical data of letters, diaries, etc no longer existing).
She's not squeamish or judgmental about incestuous affairs, Eleanor's son Richard's possible homosexuality (she doesn't think he was, as that is something chroniclers would have picked up on at the merest hint), or Henry II's involvement in Thomas Becket's murder.Definitely enjoyed it and would recommend to anyone interested in medieval European history without needing a strong background in the subject already.
Alison Weir's biography of Eleanor of Aquitaine is thorough and well-researched, from birth to death.
There's a lot of dates and names, and Weir's style doesn't really make that kind of detail absorbing, but there's plenty to interest a patient reader.
My chief criticism is that Weir presents this as a complete portrait of Eleanor, commenting that previous accounts of her life rely too heavily on the actions of her husbands and sons, but Weir herself falls into that same pitfall.
Eleanor was a fascinating woman and a great queen, amd Weir definitely shows the reader that.
In this book on Eleanor of Aquitaine she has told the story of this most interesting person in a manner that had me glued to the pages.
The story may well be known to quite a few people out there but to me this book offered the first timer a grand and interesting panorama of this most interesting person during a most interesting period.
Eleanor of Aquitaine had a number of detractors throughout history but I think the author tried to present her story in a non biased manner.
Second is the story of her two marriages—to King Louis VII of France and to King Henry II of England.
She was effectively ruler of Aquitaine for a time; just so, when her husband was gone, she had a role in the governance of England.
Being a mom to these unruly children must have been a challenge!The book also provides insight into the politics, economics, and culture of the time, giving us a broader context in which to consider Eleanor’s life and that of her husbands and children.
But it is not a biography of Eleanor.
Large sections of the book go by with notes of 'Eleanor does not appear in any of the chronicles of this period'.Worse, from a biography point of view, there are few real conclusions or statements of what Eleanor was like.
I think the book would have benefited from being a bit more opinionated, and the book stays too distant from the subject.All that said, even when Eleanor is not present, she haunts the pages of the book, even when she is not mentioned, she is still one of the foci of events.
Alison Weir always gets at least four stars for every book I read of hers.
Her subject, 'Eleanor of Aquitaine', is lifted from the mists and myths of eight hundred years.
Even so, the image is vivid of a powerful and extraordinary woman.As wife of Louis VII of France, she changed horses in mid stream and married Henry II of England, but throughout remained Duchess of Aquitaine.
Therefore, much of the Weir narrative is involved in accounts of these tumultuous reigns.Even in print it is somewhat exhausting to keep up with the travels, trials and tribulations of this woman.
Like most books claiming to be a biography of a lesser known woman from hundreds of years ago, this book isn't so much about Eleanor of Aquitaine as it is about her husbands and sons, famous kings of medieval England and France, and other powerful men of the time.
Eleanor herself was probably the wealthiest woman in Europe, owning/ruling in her own right about half of modern France before marrying King Louis and becoming a queen.
She got bored with Louis, asked for an annulment, and then married the Henry II, King of England, taking her French lands, Aquitaine, with her.
And while it's true that this is the first Eleanor of Aquitaine biography I've read so there may be better ones, it's also true that overall there isn't a ton of info out there about her life.
- Despite there not being as much Eleanor as I'd have liked, the Plantagenets and Henry II and his sons were still a really batshit crazy family and their antics and shenanigans are so entertaining that it kept me reading anyway.
Some chapters about Eleanor and the crusades but what were the peasants' lives like???
This one was not as easy for me to get through as The Princes in the Tower, but I still enjoyed it.
The reason it reads a little slower is just because of the exhaustive notes and the fact that she spends a lot more time on analysis of sources here.
Which makes it feel more authoritative, but also a bit more like a textbook.
However, Eleanor's life was sexy and interesting enough on its own.
I finished it and really liked it.
Recommended for anyone with a beginning interest in the time period, or Eleanor and a little bit of patience.
As if "Timeline" hadn't convinced me enough, life in the Middle Ages was damn hard!
This biography was not so much about Eleanor of Aquitaine as about the events and the men that governed her life: feudal wars, countless treaties made and broken, provences switching hands, marriages made and then annulled because of "consanguinity," kings and bishops being crowned and excommunicated, and women being sold in marriage during their early years (earliest was three?) to make good on those treaties.
I feel as though Weir's prose could have been more elegantly sculpted, but the events that Eleanor's life encompassed are hard to believe.
I have given this book 4 stars, but this most definitely does not correlate directly to goodreads' rating scale as I did not "love" it....it was by no means a gripping, page-turner, BUT it was exactly what I thought it would be....an incredibly detailed accounting of her life (well....as detailed as could be from 800-yr old documents and references) as well as the history of the English monarchy in the 12th century.
I will absolutely keep it on hand to use as a reference whenever I read any book from that time period.
The reader joys as Eleanor weds Louis and then Henry, but is much saddened at her imprisonment by Henry after her deception, and then admires her motherly love for her son Richard.With some four hundred pages, including an index, bibliography, a collection of photos, as well ass notes on the chief sources, and extensive family trees; there is never a dull moment in this book.
Each page is packed with so many facts and details that if one were to skip a passage, they would soon become lost in the complex yet fully explained happenings of Eleanor of Aquitaine.Originally published on October 21st, 2002.For over 500 book reviews, and over 40 exclusive author interviews (both audio and written), visit BookBanter.
Interesting, and probably really 3.5 stars. In part it is a history of Eleanor's times, but since she did much to make those times what they were, that didn't bother me.
It’s probably not a good idea to approach a book of medieval history with high entertainment expectations.
Though textually dense, it’s under 400 pages (sans notes and sources) and pretty good about relating the known facts about a medieval woman circumventing some pretty formidable cultural obstacles to shape the history of the continent in a nice, tight narrative.Alison Weir didn’t have a lot of direct source material to work with.
This was the age of the Crusades, and Eleanor was famous for accompanying her first husband, Louis VII to the Holy Land.
There is no record, but legend has it that she sought leniency for her imprisoned (by her son) grandson and other legends have it that she killed him.I found it interesting how this family spends Christmas or Easter together...
It appears she engineered her divorce from the King of France, an accomplishment in its own right (witness the trouble Henry VIII had in this regard) and maintained some sort of useful relations with him throughout his life.
What emerges is a remarkably clear and compelling story of an intelligent and capable woman who married two kings, birthed ten children, marched in two Crusades, ran kingdoms in her husbands' and sons' absences, incited her sons to rebellion, argued with the Pope to help free her son Richard from captivity, and remained a serious power broker into her late seventies.I particularly appreciated the ways Weir disagreed with previous historians by talking about which records were written at the time and which were created or embellished a century later, and the known biases of different chroniclers.
As with most any of the biographies Alison Weir writes, it is well researched history of times when not so much is available, but more can be teased from newly discovered sources. She does make some interpretations and extrapolations, but always logical ones based from the data she researches. Extrapolations intended to make the place and culture of the times more clear to us. She also always writes entertainingly and gives you a sense of the subject and their world.

Similarly, while there's no conclusive evidence that Eleanor rode off to the clusterfuck that was the Second Crusade as head of a female band attired as Amazons, it does seem to have been a widespread notion that she did from a time not long after the events… Alas, Weir does draw the line at the Courts of Love, and seems noticeably less inclined to believe the romantic accounts when it comes to Henry II's mistress (and hence Eleanor’s rival) Rosamund.
For saying this was a biography of Eleanor of Aquitaine, this book had surprisingly little information on the Queen herself.
For instance, a detailed analysis of Beckett's and Henry's relationship was underpinned by the conclusion that there is too little documentation to ascertain how Eleanor felt about the situation.
However, one does wonder why a biography of Eleanor is written when solid conclusions cannot be draw.Weir really tries to make her subject accessible to the reader, yet Eleanor elusively is just that little bit beyond our reach.
For me, this was a frustrating read as I waited for Eleanor of Aquitaine to take center-stage in her own biography.
I selected this book as a biography of Eleanor of Aquitaine, it is almost 500 pages, so I expected to learn a lot about the fascinating life of this famous queen.
Many chapters are dedicated to the lives of the queen spouses (King Luis VII of France, Henry II of England), her famous sons (Richard the Lionheart in particular) and the complex political scenario that is the background of Eleanor’s life.I think the author did an excellent job with the sources that survived.
I was torn between giving this 3 or 4 stars, as it was really a 3.5.
I was inclined to go for 3, but I listened to it as an audiobook, so I'm giving it a bit of a boost.
There were large passages that simply lost my attention, which I might have had an easier time with if I were reading it in print.
I understand that in a historical biography, especially of a woman, you're going to get a lot of information about the other people in her life (especially the men).
Anyway, Eleanor's story puts her dead centre at the pulsing heart of the formation of Europe, for all that as a person she ends up sidelined a lot.
This sidelining is a function of her femaleness in a male world, and it also tends to get her written out of a lot of histories, but still, if this was really her life, as opposed to the Rise of the Plantagenets, we'd know more about what she was doing and where she was living.
Instead, An empire forms consolidates, rocks with internecine, not to say legendary, family squabbling, and ultimately falls apart and Eleanor's life is revealed only where she intersects with it.
I'm two chapters into this book, and I've decided to bail out.
This book is almost a textbook on France in the 12th century.
The author, in spite of a understandable feminist view of Eleanor, was objective and not necessarily sympathetic to Eleanor.
Unfortunately, the book is not very compelling.
Page after page brings a litany of names of characters that are incidental to Eleanor, and unfamiliar to me.
I give it two stars, in spite of giving up on it, because I did learn a lot about the Middle Ages, and the author has done a monumental job of research to bring this story out.
In this biography, I learned more about the fascinating Eleanor of Aquitaine than I dreamed possible.
The book takes some time to get through, after all the woman was married to two important kings of Europe and was mother to another two, not to mention Eleanor lived a very long life.
Additionally, at times, the writing is a bit dry, but it is always accurate which makes up for any small faults.Highly recommended for lovers of European and English histories, or those who wish to know more about the early Middle Ages.
