https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9820.Crossing_to_Safety
In fact, the dearth of drama was something that Larry himself hit upon early in his narration:
I can’t remember which character said this, but figure it might as well have been Stegner himself: 
And another one that could have come directly from Stegner, maybe from a master class in writing:
Speaking of writing classes, Stegner was evidently very good as a teacher.
And speaking of pin-setting, the closing scenes he built towards featured plenty of drama even if most of it was subcutaneous.This was the last book Stegner wrote, published at the age of 78.
Maybe Stegner’s time and energy for a longer book were running out.
My dreams are affected, my relationships are affected, my perception of self is affected, and my writing style and speaking style change – all because of the fumes from this book seepage.
Here’s the quote from the book that illustrates this best: After spending a lovely day in the Tuscan countryside that ends with rescuing an Italian worker from a horrible accident and transporting him back to his village with a crushed, bleeding hand, Larry asks Sally, “When you remember today, what will you remember best, the spring countryside, and the company of friends, or Piero’s Christ and that workman with the mangled hand?”She thought a minute.
“it wouldn’t be complete or real if you left out any part of it, would it?”“Go to the head of the class,” I said.This is a move-to-the-top-of your-list book!
Seen in geological perspective, we are fossils in the making, to be buried and eventually exposed again for the puzzlement of creatures of later eras. Welcome to Wally World. No, not the one with Chevy Chase and a stiff relation on the car roof, the one that is a place of real literary wonder. Wallace Stegner is one of our great national treasures, and Crossing to Safety is a very rich read, a surprising look at the friendship between two couples, four friends. Stegner opens with Charity, a wea
Wallace Stegner is one of our great national treasures, and Crossing to Safety is a very rich read, a surprising look at the friendship between two couples, four friends.
Stegner opens with Charity, a wealthy New Englander in the last stages of cancer, bringing the foursome back together for one last hurrah.
An aspect of Charity’s personality is even referred to, during a multi-day hike the foursome take while in Vermont years later, as the “serpent in paradise.” Clearly the Eden of the two pairs’ friendship is not without its dangers.Although his setting is the Northeast, mostly, instead of his beloved West, Stegner pays close attention to place.
How do you make a book that anyone will read out of lives as quiet as these?Stegner did it.
There's no razzle dazzle, no shocks or mysteries, no scandals or horrors .
Their hurts are subtle and familiar.The writing is solid and reflective and downright beautiful.I found the story to be mostly about acceptance.
Loving people even when you don't like them.
Not settling, not feeling trapped or resentful, but just learning to be OK with your life and appreciating what you have instead of wasting your life obsessing over what you don't have.
A curiously ordinary yet elusive concept.
The narrator of this novel, Larry Morgan, at one point says to his wife,  “But if I’m going to set the literary world on fire, the only way to do it is to rub one word against the other.” Not only did Wallace Stegner likely set the literary world on fire with this book, he set me on fire! Can you imagine reading an entire book about the long friendship between two couples and being left gasping at the end, longing for more?The characters in this book (primarily Larry and his wife Sally, and thei
Not only did Wallace Stegner likely set the literary world on fire with this book, he set me on fire!
The trees, the smells, the weather changes, the variants in the sky – I know them all intimately from reading this book.Wallace Stegner does not need plot devices at all to draw his readers in close enough to live in the book.
I don’t know how he does it, but he does – with wit, with compassion, with understanding and with care.I definitely want to read more of Mr. Stegner’s writing this year.
I also highly recommend that everyone gift themselves with at least a couple of Wallace Stegner’s novels this year if at all possible.
The warm shudders I experienced as I sank into each night with this book on my lap, the stunning imagery of diminished time against an unchanging landscape, and the quiet story of academic couples faced with tragedy, makes me certain that Stegner will be an author I grow with this year.
This defines the term  character-driven novel, multi-faceted and deeply defined Steigner hones each with a surgeon’s precision. A story of two couples, the joys and challenges of their marriages and enduring friendship and a life cocooned within Ivy League’s walls. • Larry Morgan (narrator): workaholic, driven, rags-to-riches college professor & author extraordinaire “I was a cork held under, my impulse was always up” • Sally Morgan: ah Saint Sally…“I had to live, out of pure gratitude”• Sid
You were not made to live like brutes,  but to pursue virtue and knowledge.”Undereducated brute that I am those passages made me want to huck this book at a wall.
Cons: Pretty obvious I had a problem with the tone:) Add to that the pacing; I love character-driven novels but a bit more action wouldn’t have hurt.
Like Morgan, Stegner also grew up dirt poor & went on to become a great writer (view spoiler)[ and like the character Charity Lang, his adored mother also died of cancer  (hide spoiler)] Similarly he still managed 3 degrees despite the timing of the Great Depression, amazing.
My review of Stegner's Angle of Repose in which I was fairly critical of the book, several readers objected and insisted I read Crossing to Safety.
I felt a bit repulsed by Charity and sorry for Sid. And I felt that - like in Angle - when Stegner wants to make a dramatic point, there is never really a fine point to it, it is to me quite heavy handed.
Maybe I am too sensitive, but that did bug me a bit.GR member Joachim pointed out this cool adhoc sountrack for Angles that I should share as well booksoundsOh, and I did read and review Stegner's Crossing to Safety as well after repeated recommendations in the comments to this review.
These years later the passage that has remained closest to me is this:You can plan all you want to.
And right up to the moment when you find yourself dissolving into foam you can still believe you are doing fine.I'm not exactly sure why through the years it is this specific passage that has stuck with me.
Perhaps it's the imagery, but also the notion that life is not always going to be what you plan.
It also makes me reflect on how in life we really try to fake it.
Three stars for this excellently written masterpiece?"BG: "I don't object that part, it's well written, but what was it about?"GG: "Friendship, well educated people, marriage, age and the meaning of life.
I stress a bit since everything in this novel is a bit of something, but never the real thing."GG: "Stegner himself admits he did not want to write a drama or an adventurous story.
You liked Independence day a lot and nothing happens there either."BG: "At least Bascombe is mischievous and - you know - I like bad guys.
It makes a lot of difference if nothing happens in four days or if nothing happens in half a century.
This is my first book by this author and I was driven to read it by its wonderful title (my next book of his will be Angle of Repose for the same reason) and its enormous popularity.
As the reader I was drawn towards each character whether I liked them as an individual or not and when the book was finished it took a while for me to let them go.Not five stars for me because I did not close the final page and say "Wow!." Rather four stars for a beautifully crafted, comfortable book about the lives of four interesting characters.
The dynamics of couple-friends is at the heart of Wallace Stegner’s Crossing to Safety.
The two couples are Larry and Sally Morgan, and Sidney and Charity Lang.
Larry and Sid (their wives are never given independent ambitions) begin as young, idealistic world-beaters, with aspirations towards publication.
There are certain universal truths in play, but the Langs and the Morgans live very particular, not-very-relatable lives, especially given the context in which the novel plays out.
The novel begins in the novel’s present day, with all four friends in late middle age.
That said, I liked this Crossing to Safety quite a bit.
It focuses on the friendship between two couples, where both men are professors and writers and the women have other stuff going on.
How hard is it to keep friends as adults?
(It's hard.)(These are not questions asked by the author, but by me.)“[Friendship] is a relationship that has no formal shape, there are no rules or obligations or bonds as in marriage or the family, it is held together by neither law nor property nor blood, there is no glue in it but mutual liking.
I felt it was reflective about life and love and friendship in all the best ways.
Charity bubbles with friendliness and generosity when she and Sid meet Larry and Sally, and intervenes to make their lives easier in hard times, always pushing aside thanks.But she is ruthless in her determination to get her own way, especially controlling of Sid and her family.
There's no evident warmth in her relationship with her children, we don't see her with them, although having a large family is one of the things she says as a young wife that is most important to her.Late in the book, the husband of one of Charity and Sid's daughters refers to Sid as being a captive husband, and we are led to see that the husbands are all captive to their wives in some way, Sid from unwillingness to stand against Charity; Larry because his crippled wife, Sally, depends on him.
Achingly beautiful and deeply moving this is the closest any book has come to bring a tear to my eye, the friendship between the Langs and the Morgans was so strong and heart warming it has profoundly affected the way I look at life and that of my loved ones. Impeccably written by Stegner who I believe was in his late seventies at the time, this really is a timeless novel that would break even those who carry a heart of stone.
But Stegner's reflection on their early dreams and subsequent lives emotes similar feelings within myself when I recall my early hopes and compare them with what turned out to be reality.What ever happened to the passion we all had to improve ourselves, live up to our potential, leave a mark on the world?
In the end it is the solid loyalty of these couples to their marriage partners in spite of the described tensions that makes this story a hopeful mediation on life.The book is narrated in the first person voice of Larry Morgan who ends up being a successful novelist.
I put this book off for quite some time, knowing that it was about the friendship between two couples where one woman was dying and the other was crippled by polio.
Friendship, its immediacy, its intensity and how it develops over the years, are all very well drawn.
In the process a reader considers their own relationships.
What makes the book valuable is the depth with which each relationship is drawn.
How does one cope with the process of dying?
Four stars for the narration, maybe it is even worthy of five.An extremely moving book with beautiful writing.
SWOON!! My first Wallace Stegner. I'm in love! Can I have a literary crush on someone who's been dead for fifteen years? Is that comme il faut?It's hard to find anything to say about this book that wouldn't just muddy up the waters. Just giving a plot summary would make it sound like a plain old ordinary book. Stegner's writing is just......WOW!! The book is about friendship and generosity and youthful extravagant hopes and finding ways to be happy when fate betrays us and our dreams don't come true. Read it! That's all I can say.
The stars I gave this book are for the writing quality.
It is very good writing.
The author was very good at metaphor, and a carrying the metaphor throughout the book.
I also like his blunt analogies.The author paints a picture by jumping from present to past, to not-so-far in the past, back to the further-back past, back to the present, etc.
I'm not sure I like it, but I guess I don't hate it either.
The story itself, was kind of boring.
I'm not even sure what the book is about, exactly.
The book doesn't really have an ending, and only has a very limited amount of resolution.
This author was recommended to me recently by a friend on Goodreads.
I had not heard of him before.
This book was his last book and am not sure why I started with this one, only to say I was intrigued by the blurb.
I really enjoyed reading this book.
It is classic American literature at its very best.
This is a quiet book, no thrills or spills, no murders or mysteries to solve.
It is a powerful book, with in depth analysis of the characters and their lives written with compassion and a truth that is inspirational.
Two couples who meet early in their adult lives, shortly after marriage, as so much about their futures is yet to be determined.
But no individual is perfect, and few if any marriages are perfect.
Stegner does another excellent job of creating characters I want to get to know, characters that seem real because they are not perfect, characters that I can like and dislike, often at the same time.
I know some readers feel that nothing much happens in this novel, and I can appreciate that, but for me “life happens” here, wth its frequent mixture of joy and sadness, highs and lows.
I'm not really sure how I feel about this book.
I liked it less than I expected to.
In the middle of the book, however, Stegner reveals a 'dark secret' -- the controlling nature of the female protagonist, Charity.
Her fun-loving nature masks her deep need to orchestrate every aspect of her life with her husband, and indeed her friends.
She comes across as a shrill, madcap Katharine Hepburn -- even in the deathbed scene.Stegner's depiction of women seems dated -- you're either the emasculating take-charge woman, or the 'crippled' [his word], saintly, dependent wife.
This book left a bad taste.
The shaking was coming from deep inside my body and soul, where Wallace Stegner had infused me with words and images that caused me to tremble with recognition.
If you have ever had a friend who lifted you and held you when you would have otherwise fallen, and felt the obligations that accompany such a love, you will recognize that friendship as well.
You can feel the bond and the tense pull against it equally.Lastly, Stegner understands time, inevitability, fate.
(hide spoiler)]Stegner prefaces his book with a quotation from Robert Frost’s poem, I Could Give All to Time.
I loved every single, carefully chosen, word.
"How do you make a book that anyone will read out of lives as quiet as these?" Just like this. Gorgeous, wonderful, beautiful. Read this book, especially if you're a fan of Gilead or Jayber Crow. It has the same paced, steady feel. Warning: I bawled through the last quarter. But then it was over and I wanted to start back again at the beginning. Just read it!
It's about our commitment to ourselves versus our loyalty to those we love, those we choose to do life with.
And it's about the compromises we make, and whether they are in fact compromises if we are doing it for someone we love as much, if not more, than ourselves.
It would've been quite a different book, though, if it had been from all 4 main characters' POVs, so I guess that's just one drawback of a limited 1st-person narration.
Overall, would recommend especially to people who enjoy character-driven literary fiction novels.Thanks to my friend Anne who has mentioned this book a few times on her podcast, 
It is the story of two couples set from the years of the depression until the 1970s; it drifts along at a sedate pace with little violence, little action, but a great deal of human warmth.
Their wives Charity and Sally meet and all four become friends.
The friendship lasts a lifetime and the novel takes us right to old age and death.
Charity Lang is a remarkable creation.
This is a novel about appreciating life, appreciating friendship, love, generosity, ups and downs and the simple things.
Most of all it is about love and acceptance.
This is the novel as therapy.
I've been thinking the last few days (that's what Stegner does best--makes one think), what IS it about this novel that's so incredibly profound?
Why does this fine piece of literature affect me on so many levels?
I believe Stegner's real gift is the way he uses his words so effectively.
The thing about Stegner is the way he tells a story is very much theraputic.
His books stay with you, you can't shake them, and at some level they actually change who you are...that is the power of language and that is profound, indeed.
It's the best book (under 400 pages) I've ever read.
Do you know the feeling that you read the first sentence of a book and you just hope the writer will keep that quality?
It makes me want to buy a thousand copies and give them randomly to friends and strangers and leave some in trains and plains.
I even think that the world would be a better place if this was the bible, koran or other religious book - conquering the world with it's wisdom, beauty and humanity.
This book is why I read.
I'll send you one of my thousand copies ;-)
This is one of my FAVORITE BOOKS.....'ever'!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!"Angle of Repose" (also by Wallace Stegner), is also one of my favorite top 10 books --(this is the first time I can say ---I 'really'--'really' can claim to have read TWO books by an author that will be forever LIFE-TIME-FAVORITES!!!!!I'm only sorry I waited this long to read "Crossing to Safety".
(its timeless).Beautifully written --Vivid-engaging-(story-telling at its best).Another 'GREAT' book club discussion book (why hasn't our book club picked this one to read??)A quote to remember......"I'd rather spend it on Charity" (what is it about that line that has the reader continue to 'think' about this?) ----and 'why' do I find it soooooo pure and beautiful???
There are two couples, Sally and Larry and Charity and Sid, the couple they meet and become friends with.
I liked the way at the beginning Sally and Larry see Charity and Sid as almost perfect.
All the characters in this novel, except perhaps Sally, are a mixture of good and bad traits.
While you and your friends may be different to these, this novel makes you look at your own relationships, and how much you are prepared to accept their foibles and love them in spite of them or sometimes even because of them.
