https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31823677-tools-of-titans
I'm the kind of person who laps up inspirational books like this one. I greatly enjoyed Tools of Titans, but I have to deduct a star because what kind of message does it send when out of the 114 people the author profiles for nuggets of greatness, insight, and wisdom, only 12 are women? (Yes, I counted.)
With Tim there is this status quo that you must say "wow" on everything he does, because he is very enthusiastic and controversial, but to be honest its not the case here.I found out that people feel liberal and sophisticated and modern because they listen to Tim.This is why he is going to get "best seller New York Times" from "sophisticated" wannabes .Basically the book is like surfing the web and read about eclectic products with ads.The ads are cross promotions Tim does to his friends and companies, and the products are things he tried and most of the time are too specific and not in public interest .( e.g being too specific about kinds of tea, and minutes it takes to drink them, what he drinks first)Too many cross promotional of other products ( or startups he invested in, friends, etc)Too many details on things that really does not interesting nobody/ no one has the time to do them.I can just visit my daily websites and consume the same content( with ads blocker).Who cares that if you do sauna at 170.5 degrees 4 times a week its good for injury ?
American author, public speaker Timothy Ferriss has compiled a book perfect for the generation obsessed with famous people.
At over 600 pages this hardcover book would be a useful tool to hit someone over the head with to get them motivated as nothing in here is inspiring.
Rather than read this nonsense use these tools if you want to succeed; listen to the one or two friends who support and care about you, tap into what makes you happy each day, trust your instincts as they never lie, be a compassionate human being regardless of how much you have, be active, eat well, get adequate sleep and have a laser focus to make your passion come true.
(If you are going to have an affair with your maid - use protection.)Tim Ferris -keep living in your bubble - I am putting your book down now and I am sorry that I paid any $ for it which might go to fuel your insanity.Oh forgot to add - he talks about his equivalent of a Stanford MBA - he invested 120k in various start up companies and made money.
It's also the first book in a while that I couldn't put down-- and was personally helpful as someone on the cusp of college graduation to help vet some important decisions in my life.
(I.E. If a career/personal decision isn't an automatic "HELL YES!", it's an automatic "No".)If you're-- as another another reviewer put it, "well-traversed" in the self-improvement/self-development book sphere-- you may find this book lacks existential and philosophical depth.
Ferris explores the "How?" of successful people, but not the "Why?".
Tools of Titans is 100% about personal maximization.
This book is a compilation of gems and jewels from iconic and world-class achievers.
The material is divided in three section: Health, Wealth, and Happiness after Benjamin Franklin's famous quote:Early to bed, early to rise, keeps a man healthy, wealthy and wise.I strongly recommend this book to anyone.
This book, however, must be looked like a mountain of jewels from which you have to carve out the gems that resonate with you the most.
I feel like there is a huge weight (of wisdom) on my shoulders which compels me to actively engage with them, digest them, absorb them and incorporate them into my daily life.
standard Tim. many interesting things, many not so much... If I learned one thing from this book it's that it is very easy to write a book.
I just finished reading the book “Tools of Titans” by Tim Ferriss.
In this 673-page compendium of successful individuals, Ferriss proposes two outcomes: (1) “Success, however you define it, is achievable if you collect the right field-tested beliefs and habits” and (2) “the superheroes you have in your mind (idols, icons, titans, billionaires, etc.) are nearly all walking flaws who’ve maximized 1 or 2 strengths.”The book is organized around the themes of healthy, wealthy, and wise.
As Ferriss says, “borrow liberally, combine uniquely, and create your own bespoke blueprint.”Happy Reading!
Who else is hyped for the December release?!?!

He has done an amazing job by taking more than hundred 60+ minute interviews with some of the successful and interesting people by digging deep into their “mind”, process of their workings, process of maintaining their bodies, listening to their suggestions and how do they motivate, inspire, live and do something that they love to do.Tools of Titans is an enormous collection of bits and pieces of interviews that are available on his podcast and highlights the major theme of most of the interviews Tim has included in this book.
This is an EXCEPTIONAL book.
I have tried several times to read the book from the beginning, but have found it impossible because he will cover something that inspires me to jump to another part of the book.It is also a book, because of its short sections, you can leave near your desk or reading pile and just jump into for a few minutes at a time.
I love this book and it is now in my Top 5er list of more than one category Note to Tim: Sir, when you update this jewel, I would love to see an index.
Mediocre at best.
This is a collection of interviews from billionaires, athletes, and people in the top of their field.
I enjoyed reading some of the interviews, and learning stories of how people overcame failures is always inspiring.However, the premise of this book seems to be a formula: "Read this, and you will learn to be successful".
Even after reading a few interviews in this book, it's very clear that there is no one formula at all.
In fact, habits of one of the interviewees may have have a high probability of contradicting those of another.
This book is a buffet you can choose from.The fact that it’s 674 pages big and the way it’s structured makes it so that it’s a less nice ‘read’, however, that’s also why he advises to skip pages liberally.
But that’s not what the book was meant for, it just gives you the Tools of Titans.
Generally I liked his other books better but that’s probably because I’m so well traversed in the self-development world.
Perhaps reading all the 674 pages might be a bit too much for you so “skip liberally” and find the people/parts that interest you.Read my summary here:http://www.wouteeckhout.com/book-summ...
Valuable but lacks sttuctureIn Tools of Titans, Tim grabbed some of the best of his podcast and moved it into print. But the content is missing real structure and is mixed with silly nonsense that is meant to be funny but misses the mark such as favorite spirit animals and his useless billboard question. There are some golden nuggets in here and they are worth going after, I just had to work a little harder than I wanted. It was worth the price especially after 200+free episodes of the podcast which I enjoy every week.
Although this book had a certain lack of consistency in terms of quality of advice (some things are just too self-evident and not exactly earth-shattering tidbits), I enjoyed the wide variety of subject matter explored by such an assorted group of high achievers. This is a good read for when you need a snapshot jolt of common sense, humor, and a kick in the pants to go do something with your time. Hope to eventually read other titles by Tim Ferriss.
If I could give no stars I wouldA very overrated book and one I couldn't bear to keep reading. I rarely stop a book if I started it but I only struggled through half of this one. Literally just notes in typed form. Format is inconsistent and scattered. Definitely would NOT recommend.
Is it making the world better?—and also, whether it allows you to exercise a skill that you’ve developed.” - Will Mackaskill6) “If you want to be successful, surround yourself with people who are more successful than you are, but if you want to be happy, surround yourself with people who are less successful than you are.” - Naval Ravikant7) “In any situation in life, you only have three options.
A meta-reading experience because, having read 150-200 books per year for the past few years and taking notes/insights on all of them, this entire book looks like what my annual book logs look like. Hence, I was highlighting all over the book (195 highlights apparently, since Kindle now integrates highlights into Goodreads). Tim Ferriss produced a book from his podcasts like I produce learnings and notes from the books I read, so this book was well-suited to my style.
Not the safest option, but it worked out well for him.I definitely added a good number of books on my to-read list, and there were some other ideas in this book I liked ("when in doubt about your next project, follow your anger" gets me every time) but most of those I think speak more towards me as a person rather than the general tendencies of successful people.All of that said, I greatly enjoyed the content of this book.
But I do try to read something sort of self-help-esque for my first book of every year, even if it's frivolous, like regarding fashion or something along those lines.
I started listening to Tim Ferriss's podcasts in the past year, and haven't read his previous books, but decided to pick this one up.
Obviously I don't agree with every person he interviews and some things (at least to me) were sort of givens, but overall I got so much out of this book and I think it's a great read for anyone.
I think literally everyone would get at least SOMETHING out of this book.
A book so long and labyrinthine that you’re not supposed to read it.
For about what feels like the first 2/3 of the book, in the Healthy section, it’s full of advice from freakish superhumans that like to do things like jump in an ice bath or lift heavy objects whilst standing in a river.
The only thing that makes that section interesting is it’s so far outside your comfort zone that it pushes the boundaries of what you’d consider normal.
There’s some excellent advice, anecdotes and wisdom in the other two sections but it all feels a bit fragmented and the whole is less than the sum of its parts.
What a start of the year!لم أعتد أن أقرأ كتاباً مباشرة بعد إصداره. ولكنني متشجع للغاية لهذا الكتاب.من أسرع الكتب التي قمت بقراءتها على الرغم من حجم الكتاب. قرأت الثلثين الأخيرين من الكتاب في يوم واحد.على الرغم من أنني لست من المعجبين بكتابه السابق كثيراًThe 4-hour Week إلا أن كتابه هذا يستحق القراءة بحق.
After listening all of the podcasts I found useful to read all the tips and tricks collected in this book. A real manual on how to improve your life, from so many different voices that it's impossible not to fond something valuable.
I like the use of a titan's guide. Some of my favorites were Paulo Coelho and Malcolm Gladwell. Would have like to see a few more women referenced, but in the end, I am glad I stuck with this book.
A must read.

Тим Феррис опубликовал выдержки из избранных интервью, взятых в рамках своего шоу Tim Ferris Show. Получился сборник мыслей, опыта, инструментов, подходов и жизненной философии известных и не очень людей. Книга может сильно расширить границы знания о том, а как вообще бывает, а как вообще можно делать, а как ещё можно воспринимать привычные вещи.
Frustrating hodgepodge of bits & bobs. Wanted to give it two stars, but annoyingly I found a couple of actual useful ideas in there.
This book try to be his own encyclopedia about all what he learnt along the way.The book is organized like mini summaries of what he thinks it's the most important or valuable thing he got from those interviews, and some insights about his own thoughts, patterns of thinking, routines, etc.
So each person that he interviewed and is mentioned in the book has, in average, around 4 kindle pages, about their thoughts, what they think about success, their most important research, etc.This is an interesting way to organize the book but I think it is not clear enough for most readers, a lot of times sounds more like a big index of his own podcast, talking about topics not deep enough to really understand them.
