https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41193.A_Thousand_Acres
“…Daddy thinks history starts fresh every day, every minute, that time itself begins with the feelings he’s having right now. That’s how he keeps betraying us, why he roars at us with such conviction. We have to stand up to that, and say, at least to ourselves, that what he’s done before is still with us, still right here in this room until there’s true remorse. Nothing will be right until there’s that.” “He looks so, sort of, weakened.” “Weakened is not enough. Destroyed isn’t enough. He’s got
Rose despises Larry, and for good cause, as it turns out, but the two sisters had protected Caroline from Larry’s worst inclinations, so her affection for her father is untainted by Ginny and Rose’s darker experience of him.
The poisons used on the farm, it is implied, are the reason why Ginny was never able to bring a pregnancy to term, and why Rose has breast cancer.
In one scene, eager to gain both land and Larry’s blessings, Ty talks to Ginny about dealing with Larry:
A Thousand Acres screamed to me from its cover that it was that kind of book, that focused on the dissolution of the family as seen through a retelling of the King Lear story.
In the past, I've been less than sympathetic to the concept of the family farm, but even my cold heart can't read what Smiley has described here and see it as anything but a tragedy.What this novel has over the modern literature that I feared it would be is not only a plot (people die here, not to mention being maimed and insulted and cruelly treated) but a larger meaning, and that big picture of this being more than just a personal tragedy, is what makes this worthwhile reading.
Ginny, the eldest and Rose, two years younger agree to comply with their father’s wishes but the youngest daughter Caroline is not interested.
That a child of his thwarts him is intolerable to this domineering patriarch and he cuts Caroline off completely.As this well-plotted story proceeds and we learn more about this family, it becomes clear that things have not been right for many years.
It is now Ginny’s responsibility to cook, clean, and care for her much younger sister along with help from twelve year old Rose.
Smiley uses King Lear as her framework for this novel.
I had a third eye for Jess alone, a telescopic lens that detected every expression that crossed his face.) These events are portrayed like a calamity of sudden violent weather conditions, bringing to the surface poisons in the soil capable of destroying the most scrupulously observed methods of tilling the land.
There’s an awful lot of drama in this novel and with a less measured voice it might easily degenerate into soap opera-ish melodrama.
Now and again I have to admit I wondered if it might not have been a more comprehensively thrilling and satisfying novel had Smiley kept the King Lear blueprint more of a subliminal refrain.
Set in 1970's Iowa farm country, we follow the Cook family: Larry, the cruel, no-nonsense patriarch, and his daughters Ginny (the narrator), Rose and Caroline.
At the onset of the story, Larry decides to retire and pass down the farm to his daughters and their husbands.
A rift in the family is born, cracking it open and spilling out all kinds of secrets, eventually bringing forth the painful truth at the core.I was amazed while reading this; first, because I was drawn in almost immediately, I was so quickly invested in the lives of her characters.
I only realized while reading other reviews that this was a spin off of King Lear and that helps explain why some of the characters, while otherwise humble, cheated on their spouses and even tried to kill the people closest to them.
There were long descriptions of what people ate and these were supposed to be character traits, including a vegetarian from Seattle who doesn’t drink beer but likes Coke.I enjoyed this book thoroughly through the first third but, after that, it became over dramatized and lost me.
Caroline did not share the special bond between Ginny and Rose.
Rose wouldn't have stood for any sentimentality."Their dad often said that Caroline was a better child than the two older sisters.
However, the same detail also established the essence of the American farm life: exactly how it was lived; what was needed; how it was managed; how communities interact with each other - the meanness, tricks, betrayals, the good will, sentiment, hard work, and so forth.
This is an excellent book club read.Ginny is the protagonist narrating the saga in the first person.
Hawkeyes, Hayseeds and HotheadsFlammable Flamily SecretsWinner of the 1992 Pulitzer Prize for Fiction and the 1991 National Book Critics Circle fiction award, Jane Smiley's novel represents a robust, red-faced reworking of Shakespeare's King Lear, a family tragedy set against the bucolic Iowa farmland.
The oldest daughter Ginny is thrilled, the youngest daughter Caroline, an attorney who resides a couple of hours away, thinks it's a bad idea and wants nothing to do with it, while the gesture stokes hot coals of resentment from middle daughter Rose, who claims dad sexually abused her repeatedly over many years after the girls' mom died.
This character-driven narrative hammered out many complexities shared among family members.
The narrative started slow, built momentum as it gathered steam and had an ending well worth waiting for.The Cook family lived on an Iowa farm in Zebulon County.
Larry, the patriarch, the father, had his hands full with his farm and three daughters - Ginny, Rose and Caroline.
Two decades ago.One day, out of the clear blue, Larry felt it was time to call it quits.
He gave the farm to his daughters with just one stipulation.
To the daughters, it seemed like a good idea at the time.
The novel is a modern version (slight retelling) of Shakespeare’s “King Lear.” The text begin in 1979 on an Iowa farm, and is told from the perspective of the eldest of three daughters, Ginny Cook.
Equally strong is chapter 33, which is one of the most realistic depictions of a fight between a long time couple that I have ever read.
What is unsaid is powerful, and I cringed in recognition while reading it.I have read reviews where some have bemoaned the fact that “A Thousand Acres” is a dark text, and the ending is depressing.
Well…the ending of Shakespeare’s tragedies are dark and we accept that with no qualms.
SLATTED CORNCRIBS AND MARY JANESIt’s kind of slightly fun to see how Jane Smiley gets all the lurid plot of King Lear into her tale of the decline and fall of an Iowa farming family. For instanceOut, vile jelly! Where is thy lustre now?the famous scene where the Earl of Gloucester is blinded onstage (ewww, really?) gets transformed into an accident with a farm machine which squirts ammonia into a farmer’s eyes; and a war between the branches of the family becomes a court case. And the reason the
SLATTED CORNCRIBS AND MARY JANESIt’s kind of slightly fun to see how Jane Smiley gets all the lurid plot of King Lear into her tale of the decline and fall of an Iowa farming family.
I do like retooled versions of Willie the Shake, and King Lear has popped up as the movies House of Strangers, Broken Lance, Ran, My Kingdom and even allegedly Godfather Part III.
He had two or three pairs, and the high heels made his legs look long.
There was also the old cornpicker, still sitting in Daddy’s barn, that took the whole ears instead of shelled grain like the combines.
Written in 1991, Jane Smiley’s Pulitzer-winning A Thousand Acres pretends to be about the death of the American farm but, if I’ve ever read a book richer in subtext, I cannot recall it.
As the middle sister, Rose, comes to the sharp focus that cancer brings [not a spoiler], she describes her mother’s well-worn advice; “I’m grabby and jealous and selfish and Mommy said it would drive people away, so I’ve been good at hiding it… You’ll notice that Mommy never said, ‘Rose, just be yourself.’” Rose's realization summarizes life in small town America, or in any family, be it natural or chosen.
Ok, I got to page 267 of this book and I figured that life was too short to go ahead with this torture.
Smiley's story of the decline of an Iowa farm family is ostensibly based on King Lear.
In reality it has no remote resemblance to King Lear, who was a sympathetically tragic character – perhaps one of his greatest.
Shakespere’s story and characters are deeply resonant and well developed.
Smiley’s characters were (gasp!) abused by this Iowa patriarch– you can see this coming a mile away.
This would be OK, but these details play no discernible role in the story, except to add more pages to the book.
I suspect that many people, mainly those who never have to choose between themselves and their family, believe that the freedom associated with choosing yourself feels good.
And Smiley captured this with simplicity, humility and an awe-inspiring understanding of the messy emotional tendencies of human beings.I didn't give it 5 stars because I utterly detested the lack of responsibility and remorse that one of the sisters showed her husband when she made an immoral and hurtful decision behind his back.
However, the fact that it did win a Pulitzer makes me feel less embarrassed about reading it...even if it was just for class.A Thousand Acres, told from the middle of three daughters, is a story about a small farming community in rural Iowa during the mid-1970s and is loosely based on King Lear.
This proves to be Smiley's biggest fault and large reason why this novel is no bueno.
She is obviously too caught up in creating women characters that will please her the elder feminist community that she completely neglects the development of the male characters.
We had the Tragic Hero with the Fatal Character Flaw, fighting against Fate or Destiny.
The Tragic Hero would often be male and of royal lineage.
Why, it’s the community: the unendurable weight of their judging gaze, the commandment to be the same, to keep up appearances and keep your goddamn skeletons in the closet where we can't see them.
And in many ways, it’s a very American tale.
And from that she elevates this story of oppressed rural women, of incest, rape, madness and murder, and makes it Tragedy.
Wow!! The drama and impact of this Pulitzer Prize winning novel increases more and more the further you go. A compelling read that I highly recommend. The family dynamics of both the Cook family and their nearest neighbors, the Clarks, start off seemingly so smooth and normal and unravel so completely.Plenty to think about so more may come...
Ginny, to this point has been going through her day to day life without questioning her motivations or those within her tightly knit circle.
There is a pivotal point in the story where Ginny sees the people and things in her life for what they truly are.
She was the only sister who moved away from the farm and made a life for herself in the city.
Caroline, a lawyer, moved in and out of the story and provided an interesting juxtaposition to the other two sisters.
A clunky retelling of Lear. Only at the very end do you get a touch of Lear's darkness, but it's not enough to save the novel. One of the most overrated novels I've ever read. I think this book won some awards, and might have been an Oprah Book before there were Oprah Books. A classic example of why some awards and book club favorites are not to be trusted. Come to think of it, I've only read one great novel by Smiley, The Greenlanders. And that book is unlike anything else she's done.
This is the story of a farming family in the second half of the 20th century, a domineering, abusive patriarch and his three adult daughters.
When the father unexpectedly decides to sign over the farm to his daughters and son-in-laws, he kicks over the first domino in a chain of events which will shatter the daughters’ coping mechanisms and topple the precarious family structure.
This is brilliantly written, each character so finely painted, the interactions so nuanced, individual motivations revealed in all their complexities.
Smiley has a magnificent ability to understand frail people and broken families and to convey their pain with unflinching realism and sensitivity.
I think this Pulitzer Prize winning book was just over my head.This story involves a Iowa farm family (3 daughters with their husbands and their overbearing, stubborn, old school father).
The father decides to relinguish control over the family farm and sign it over to his two oldest daughters, Ginny and Rose, and their husbands (Ty and Frank?) .
It felt like one chapter Ginny was this normal farmer's daughter/wife but the next minute she states she knows she's going to sleep with so and so.
Smiley throws in these tiny details: pelicans appear in a moment of crucial decision, echoing Lear's weird dis on his daughters:Twas this flesh begotThose pelican daughters.Back then people thought pelican mothers would cut their own breasts and let their babies drink their blood.
I know, yeah, people in the olden days were weird.But she kinda punks out on the ending, and I'm not sure why.
(hide spoiler)] So that was a minor bummer for me.
Such a 5 star book!!!!!This will be a great book to discuss.I listened to it on Audible and the narrator was excellent. Actually, I am exhausted now, I feel as though I lived through this book...The discussion starts on August 1st, /All About Books group.
EXCELLENT!!!!!!!!
I think this book is almost a masterpiece.
It's apparently a retelling of King Lear which since I've never read, I can say you don't have to be familiar with to appreciate A Thousand Acres.
The only thing which spoiled it for me is when (view spoiler)[ Ginny left the poisoned jar at her sister's for so long.
I can understand her impulse for it, but don't believe she would have carried it out and left it so long especially with the chance her nieces might have tasted it  (hide spoiler)] Even with that, I have to give this book five stars-I'll be thinking about it for a long time.
This book won a Pulitzer back in that day, and that pisses me off.
Nothing strictly happens, of course, just like in Lear (except there, at least, everyone dies in interesting ways, sort of a British pre-figuring of Rambo -- import ass from Taiwan as cannon fodder and just dream of all the ways you could fuck that chit up).
I mean, flat-out direct from all the daydreams an author has about what she'd like to say to her daddy.
Because toward the end I was struck by how the narrator was utterly trapped in her own existence with no viable means for becoming anything other than the sad bitch she was.
So I guess the book ended well for me.
I've had mixed reviews for Jane Smiley's books...but loved this one and now understand the Pulitzer Prize and the hype about her writing.
And the danger is so slippery, so insidious, and you don't realize until suddenly you are no longer an adult with some level of say-so, but once again a child, scared out of her wits, who has seen a monster, who is trying to tell someone, but no one believes there's any danger.
I'm thinking of a bigger canvas here...big enough to make sense of her ability to pull back to some level of comic relief in the midst of heart-breaking catastrophe.
To tell a story of cosmic benevolence thwarting one's lesser instincts in the midst of so much angst...well, how bold, how weird, how Smiley.
The main thing I didn't like about Edward St. Aubyn's version was the viciousness of the two older sisters; and of course the really brilliant idea that Jane Smiley had was to tell the Lear story from the point of view of Goneril and Regan.
Smiley's retelling sets the story on an American farm in Iowa, which was another stroke of genius on her part.
The novel is set during the early 1980s, when farming work - despite modern mechanisation - is still a man's work.
I was wrong.What happens, in fact, is that Smiley puts her own spin on the story of Lear and his daughters, just as Shakespeare did himself.
The scenes between Ginny and Rose are always absolutely gripping, and everything that surrounds it is masterfully done.I'd reccommend this novel to anyone who likes the Lear story, anyone who has sisters, or a difficult relationship with their father, to anyone who grew up on a farm or in a small town - this novel is highly identifiable I think, because like its inspiration its main concern is the dynamics of family, something that we have all experienced.(I still like Shakespeare better though!)
