https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/229896.Ego_and_the_Mechanisms_of_Defense
الكتاب بيتكلم عن الحيل الدفاعيه النفسيه اللى بيستخدمها الاطفال وازاى انهم بيستخدموا الحيل دى علشان يعوضوا بيها ضعفهم واحتياجهم للإعتماد على الغيرزى مثلا الطفل الصغير لما يتألم من خلع احد اسنانه يقوم يلعب من اخته دور الطبيب ويخليها تمثل هى دور المريضه يعنى زى ما ابوها سيجموند فرويد مرمط العواطف التقليديه النبيله وارجعها كلها لاسباب جنسيه وماديه حقيره جت بقى بنته انًا علشان تكمل علينا وتمرمط براءة الاطفالمنهم لله هم الاتنين
Una ampliación ordenada del campo.
I love this book! And I'm pretty certain I only understood a fraction fo what I read, or rather, understood it at shallow level in comparison to what it will mean to me as I re-read throughout the rest of my life, and as I come to learn more about psychology. This is definitely one of those gifts that keeps giving.
My jaw dropped.
Timeless theory on defenses. Especially liked the child and adolescent chapters.
Someone bought this for me at a bookshop in Amsterdam. :) It was such a great gift! Definitely occupied my time on trains.
its amazing awesome hands up to anna for taking after her fathers talent
Anna tends to repeat herself and elaborate on the same concepts far too many times throughout the book, which has an effect of making you remember selected pieces of information well, but parts of it book become a tad bit tedious to read.
Arguments in this chapter are constructed in an elegant manner with enough theoretical background and practical examples, contrary to some earlier parts of the book, where no explanation of a certain psychic pattern is offered aside from a few patient cases.
No a través de un catálago descriptivo sino de una mirada que ya asume mucho conocimiento psicoanalítico previo, Anna Freud estudia la dinámica defensiva del yo utilizando como ejes los tipos de angustia, que sí defne, y las etapas del ciclo vital. A veces se siente que analiza de más fenómenos que no ameritan explicación. No hay una argumentación clara.
Проницателна книга. Ако не отдава толкова голямо внимание на почти безкритичното позоваване на идеите на Зигмунд Фройд, между двете корици на книгата човек може да открие много отговори за себе си.
We do whatever it takes to keep us unconscious.
But to keep us unconscious of what?
We want to remain unaware of the truth of the real source of suffering.
It does not prevent suffering but leaves it for another day.
But that day sooner or later it must arrive and materialize tha suffering in some way.
The truth does not hurt; the lie hurts.
Or as the Buddha would say: 'to understand everything is to forgive everything'.It is at a very high intellectual level but it is neither a comfortable nor an easy reading.
I started reading this book because of references to it in the work of George Vaillant. He build a masterful longitudinal study of the lives of students at Havard with defence mechanisms as a important part of the research. I couldn't wait to read the original work!When reading this work of Anna Freud I just found it repulsive and there was nothing left of my enthousiasic anticipation.My conclusion is that this book and I aren't build for each other.
Ohne Vorkenntnisse des freudschen Begriffsapparates wird aus diesem Buch nicht viel zu gewinnen sein. Sind die Kenntnisse gegeben, ist diese Monographie lesenswert, gerade auch mit Blick auf Anna Freuds Fokus auf Kinder- und Jugendanalyse.
Como me lo indicó la persona que me dejó leerlo: el 'catecismo' del Psicoanálisis... ¡Imperdible!
Anna's even more monotonous than the object of her Elektra complex, but still presented some interesting new takes on old, largely insane theories.
