https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/168814.Keys_to_Drawing
Keys to Drawing, Bert DodsonAnyone who can hold a pencil can learn to draw with some degree of proficiency, Bert Dodson In this book he shares a complete drawing system that you can use for any subject or type of drawing-even if you doubt your ability to draw.
It's based on fifty-five "keys to drawing," which are introduced at a comfortable pace.
(More pictures at parkablogs.com)Here's a pretty good book for anyone who's thinking of picking up drawing. Bert Dodson has written it in a crisp straightforward manner. The are 55 keys of drawing, introduced at a very comfortable pace. Alongside are 48 easy-to-follow lessons.The examples are all sketches from Bert Dodson, his students and selected pieces old art masters. They are all pretty sketchy but this book isn't about techniques on realistic drawings. It's also not about specific technic
(More pictures at parkablogs.com)Here's a pretty good book for anyone who's thinking of picking up drawing.
Alongside are 48 easy-to-follow lessons.The examples are all sketches from Bert Dodson, his students and selected pieces old art masters.
They are all pretty sketchy but this book isn't about techniques on realistic drawings.
It's also not about specific technical rendering techniques, although some are briefly introduced.This book is really about the approach to drawing, which aims at helping students tackle any subjects confidently.The principles are very similar to The New Drawing on the Right Side of the Brain.
I'm not sure if Dodson meant this to be more than just a drawing book.
But the subtitle of the book is "Rediscover the Art of Seeing." And that's what it's about.
It's not just about learning how to draw--and it is one of the best books I've found for that.
It's about being an observant person, who looks at people and things--really looks.
It's about not missing detail that makes a person and a picture come to life.
I found this not only an excellent book about drawing, but great instruction about writing and the art of noticing.
Some books on drawing seem to want to scare away the riff raff, approaching art as something to fear or grovel before (I'm not worthy!).
Advice like that serves to throw most beginning artists into immediate despair and frustration, and eventually to alcohol or Rocky Road ice cream.I love Bert Dodson's approach to art.
I'd especially recommend this for beginners and possibly intermediate artists, or people who may have drawn in the past and would like to start again but struggle with knowing where the hell to begin.
Anyone can learn to draw or learn to draw better, and there are much worse places to start than with Bert Dodson.
This is the first and so far the only art instruction book that I finished reading, did most of the exercises from, will happily re-read and recommend it to anyone starting to draw.
I would re-read it now, except I lent my copy to my sister and I suspect that if I buy another one I would "loan" it to a friend, who is earning to improve her drawing skills.
This book helped me to improve my drawing and to understand there the gaps in my knowledge and skill set are.
I've been strongly recommending this book to people wanting to learn to draw - or to improve their drawing - for years.I first read " Keys to Drawing" after I got back to doing art after a break of over 15 years.
This is a book which teaches you how to look, how to see and how to record - using various "keys to drawing"One of the especially helpful bits about the book is that it encourages the development of self-evaluation right from the start.
I am a retired teacher. I taught drawing in college and in high school. This is the best drawing book I have found. It was immensely helpful to me and to my students. It ranks up there with the great”Natural Way to Draw.”
Very good resource for artists looking for tips to enhance their drawing. Would 100% read again.
good
As far as I'm concerned this is the best book I know to advance drawing skills (although perhaps not for the complete beginner, try Betty Edwards for that).
I have been drawing from early childhood and it is my favorite way to pass time, relax and lower stress.
There is always something in front of me to draw.
I do some of the exercises fairly often to keep in good drawing form.
He allowed me to trust myself in doing contour drawing so that I find it fun, use it often, and am pleased with the results.
Brilliant book, I recommend to every beginner artist out there. This book will teach you how to draw what you see, and give an introduction to concepts like light and shadow, composition, drawing from imagination, etc. There is a lot of wisdom in this book. Read through it carefully, do the exercises, return to the book, absorb all of it.
This is a very useful book not only for the beginning painters but also for those who are already confident in their abilities.
If you have a desire to draw - start this right now because the practice is the key to success.
In this book, the author gives 55 tips to help you draw as a painter in the shortest possible time.
I also recently wrote an article for this website, in which I gave 10 tips for amateurs for drawing.
The main tips are, as I said above, the practice, the surroundings, the inspiration and even more important to set a deadline.
This is an excellent book for artists looking to improve their skills at drawing. The variety of exercises in different categories is amazing. Any time I get stuck with a case of 'art block' this is the book I pick up. My favorite exercise for warming up is one where you draw your shoes. It always gets me in the right head space to draw. There are so many interesting concepts introduced in this book I feel like I never run out of new ideas to explore!
2011 is the learn of really improving my drawing. I've never had any real drawing classes or learned any technique. So I am starting with this book, which is so universally and highly recommended. I'm doing all of the exercises as well as reading. I am not through the first chapter and have already learned quite a bit. Great book thus far!
The best book on drawing that I have read so far. Changes the way you see things and leads you through lots of different lessons and techniques. I probably would have given it five stars, if it were not from 1985. But only the resource info is out of date, really. Drawing is still drawing and I have to say I like it that there isn't a chapter on drawing on the computer.
It is not for a beginner. It just teach you roughly about drawing basic.Not step by step book. The exercises are very poor instruction.It tell you to put the still life then draw. But how! How to start! Step 1 Step2If you want to buy drawing basic book, I suggest How to See How to Draw by Claudia Nice.Lee Hammond series book are the best to start for beginner.
This is the first book for anyone looking to learn drawing. It teaches you to see things in a different way. Since drawing is 75% seeing and 25% mechanical skill, this is naturally a very valuable skill to have. After reading this book I've seen unbelievable improvements in my ability. I would definitely recommend it.
Straightforward, step by step lessons to help students who already have drawing skills and those who are scared to try. Strictly techniques and skill building, though. (Perfect for art teachers who do not feel comfortable teaching drawing. This book will break down the drawing process for both the students and the teacher.)
Artists tend to look at pictures rather than reading the text in educational materials. When used properly this is one of the best books written on the subject of drawing. The author explains in detail the techniques the reader must adopt in order to be successful.
業界人気NO.1コピーブランド専門店 2018人気時計スーパーコピー商品毎週入荷!日本人が経営しているブランドスーパーコピー時計専売店スーパーコピー時計高品質 かつ低価格、2年無料保証。http://www.buyoo1.com/brandcopy-2.html ウブロコピー時計http://www.buyoo1.com/brandcopy-5.html ブルガリスーパーコピーhttp://www.buyoo1.com/brandcopy-10.html パネライ時計スーパーコピーhttp://www.buyoo1.com/brandcopy-31.html シャネルコピーバッグhttp://www.buyoo1.com/brandcopy-53.html グッチコピー
Great read!The first book I’ve read about drawing and probably the most intuitive I’ve been in a book. Learned a lot and reintroduced me to drawing and how to view things in an artist’s perspective. I love this book so much!
A very detailed book about how to draw, what to look for, composition, and chapter by chapter exercises to practice the theory taught. Checked out from the library and ended up buying the book so I can work through all the exercises.
Extremely Helpful. It really did not take me over a year to "read" this book. "Keys to Drawing" by Bert Dodson takes the reader through how to draw, but is more informative than the general "how to" book. I read and worked through it. I learned some new things and reaffirmed other.
I THINK THIS BOOK ARE IMPORTANT LEARNING SECRET STYLE.
cool book to practice drawing
This tops as drawing book for beginners. And it is not available in any local bookstores! Argh!
We were required to buy this book when I was in art school, and I've since recoomended it to many people. Great introductory to many of the fundamentals of drawing.
Definitely worth reading. This book provides many basic tips for drawing things in real life.
Art Classic and FavoriteI have many how-to drawing books. But I especially like Dodson's instructions... and I saw immediate improvement doing the exercises.
ن
