https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/145291.Number
And the English trice has the double meaning of three times as well as simply many, plausibly echoing the Latin ‘tres’ and ‘trans’ - beyond - thus memorializing an ancient method of base 3 counting.Dantzig‘s factual anecdotes are similarly captivating: “Thus, to this day, the peasant of central France (Auvergne) uses a curious method for multiplying numbers above 5.
(One suffices to derive all out of nothing.)” Little could Dantzig (much less Leibniz) have foreseen the rather non-mystical importance of the base-two counting in the age of the digital computer.Dantzig is acutely sensitive to the cultural matrix of mathematics.
All attempts to reconcile this discrepancy are based on the hope that an accelerated staccato may appear to our senses as a legato.
And yet much has not changed, and this book remains one of the best exposition of how our system of mathematics arose.One of the best chapters is the second chapter, where the author clearly describes how our modern Indo-Arabic numerical system, which is arguably the greatest mathematical discovery of all time, arose in India in the first few centuries of the common era, and from their percolated to the Arab world, and then to a kicking-and-screaming European world.
The anthropological survey about number systems in the first few chapters was pretty interesting, but the dryness of the writing really came into the forefront when the later chapters turned to increasingly technical mathematics. While I appreciate the rigor, it ended up feeling like I was reading a math textbook, which is not my jam right now.
Loved this (near) closing line - The reality of today was but an illusion yesterday.
252) "...any measuring device, however simple and natural it may appear to us, implies the whole apparatus of the arithmetic of real numbers: behind any scientific instrument there is the master-instrument, arithmetic, without which the special device can neither be used nor even conceived." Does this not imply that measurements (by any beings) and therefore numbers have an existence outside of the human mind and do not rest on "articles of faith"?As to the numbers themselves (putting philosophy aside) we learn that the two biggest bugaboos in the history of number are zero and infinity.
This is another one I pick up a lot. There is some really dense math that is really outside my understanding, but also some incredibly lucid analysis of the development of mathematics and how it has effected the way we perceive and cognate. Tremendous stuff, and humbling!
The first couple of chapters were interesting--about the evolution of counting and the development of language to describe abstract concepts like "how many", but after that, the book got extremely tedious and boring. Not one of my favorites on math.
Number theory clearly explained in this classic. Beautifully written. 2007 publication date, original was in 1930. What book on number theory survives 77 years, unless it is extraordinary?
"Though the source be obscure, still the stream flows on"
I am not well-versed in the history of mathematics, so my opinion of this book comes from my exclusive experience with it, rather than a comparison with its kind.It has enough detail to satisfy you, while keeping away from excessiveness. It is brilliantly written and with a touch of philosophy. I have learned a great deal about the history of mathematics, and have come to realize and understand many fundamental ideas--how they came to be, why they came to be, and what they led to. I am glad to add this book to my collection!
Have to give it to the author for apparently trying to make the topic accessible to the general reader. It is certainly not written for the serious mathematicians (maybe for the aspiring mathematician). It, also, contains equations in detailed explanation which I find unnecessary. A lot of the discussion, although fits to the subject of number evolution, is dry and involves mathematical proofs. This book is definitely not accessible.
Loved the chapter: The Anatomy of the Infinite.
Very distinct and intelligent writing style. Content gets a little boring later on, but the first few chapters are fantastic. We definitely take our decimal number system for granted.
Great book, profound but easy to understand, substantial but light.
Mr Dantzig writes:“Our intuition permits us, by an act of the mind, to sever all time into the two classes, the past and the future, which are mutually exclusive and yet together comprise all of time, eternity.The now is the partition which separates all the past from all the future; any instant of the past was once a now, any instant of the future will be a now anon, and so any instant may itself act as such a partition.
This is what we mean by the flow of time.”
A fascinating account of the history of mathematics, from the innate number sense of humans and other animals to the bewildering abstract concept of infinity.I love to get glimpses of the way that knowledge and science have developed through the incremental contributions of real individuals.
Its architecture is faultless because it is founded on pure reason, and its walls are impregnable because they were reared without blunder, error or even hesitancy, for here human intuition had no part!
In short the structure of mathematics appears to the layman as erected not by the erring mind of man but by the infallible spirit of God.The history of mathematics reveals the fallacy of such a notion.
It's a lot to ask of a book to give a portrayal of what it means to be human.Near impossible to find so much reflected humanity in a book on mathematical principles.
Tobias Dantzig gives us an elegant history of the discovery of mathematical principles.
This discoveries are products of imagination, abstract reasoning, and the outposts of thought were erected before it's territory was marginally searched.From finger counting, to abacuses, to expanding the domain of numbers...it's a slow road.
The human imagination stretched from abasic domain of real numbers, to a model of the infite filled with compound, irrationals and never-ending prime numbersTobias re-worked this work multiple times, indeed it's his primary work, and legacy.
I was fascinated by the fact that the act of counting and the concept of number is not a self-evident truth inherent in human beings, but something that had to be learnt.Realizing that a pair of horses and the passage of two days are two different instances of the same concept of the number "two" required thousands of years.
I later realized that the book was written in the early part of the twentieth century, which might explain this different style to what would be expected in a popular science book from today.
He called it an "easy" book on the history, philosophy, and central concepts of mathematics.
Well, I understood the history easily enough, and the philosophy was at times challenging but I think I understood it.
The math, though, was simply beyond me.
I think I should revisit this once I've studied set theory....My mathematical ineptitude aside, I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in the topic.
I really think that "philosophers" should become better acquainted with math and science - how can you claim to make any claims about "truth" without them?
The first two chapters are slow, but after that it speeds up quickly. Tells the history of mathematics (up to set theory) as a story of uncovering/intuiting new types of numbers and the process of proving that these new (and increasingly abstract) entities do follow the central axioms that numbers follow, and can be used as such. It's a history of mathematics that I've never come across before. I thought it was fucking brilliant.
An incredibly dense, but thoroughly engaging, look at the history of mathematics. Admittedly, it took me a while to get into the groove of the book but once I did I found it difficult to put down. I'd recommend this for any current, former or aspiring mathematician and number lovers; but the insights into the philosophy and history of numbers and differing branches of mathematics over the ages would be interesting to anyone with a basic high school background in the subject.
This is a rather old book (originally published in 1930's) and so the language is slightly dated and some of the concepts are explained rather confusingly. But it does give a great explanation of some basic facts about Number theory came to be. The book does not not shy away from Math when appropriate but most of denser math is in the appendices. But overall this is a good read for anyone interested in the history of Math.
"The evolution of mathematical thought from the earliest times to the latest constructions is presented here with admirable consistency and originality and in a wonderful and lively style." - Albert EinsteinA layman's book that turned around my attitude towards math. (The actual math in it is very minimal and described in such a way that the reader feels smart. All math courses should begin with this...)
This was the last book I read for Smith College--for a math class, actually. It's about the evolution of number and how integral number is to life. Not really up my alley, but fascinating. I ended up writing a paper on how the evolution of number correlates with the evolution of American literature. Pretty snazzy.
I found this book in the attic. It's about the history of the concept of numbers in the early civilization, and the development of mathematics. The history is told in an easy to understand and entertaining language. It evokes interest each time I open a new page. How I was really happy when this book was re-released in 2005!
Interesting though some of the material was, it just didn't hold my interest. (I also hadn't realized when I bought the book that it had originally been written in the 1930s. But when the author referred to the Australian Aborigines as "barbarians", that sentiment seemed so out of place with modern thinking that I checked the copyright information.)
Excellent insights into how some of the greatest mathematicians understand irrational and imaginary numbers. Imaginary numbers, in particular, are very strange to me, and it was reassuring and illuminating to learn more about how the understanding of numbers evolved.
A number: Like, what's the big deal? Everybody knows what numbers are, right? Actually, maybe not. The concept of "number" is a lot more complicated than that. From this book, I went on to do post grad work in mathematics; I'd like to do much more.
Very informative book about number theory. At some points it is a bit technical, which can't be avoided, but if you are literate in advanced mathematics there should be no problem. If you are not, it is still a great read.
Simply an awesome account. Skipped the first three Appendices, but will revisit soon. Had problem trying to fathom some of the more recent concepts, especially those involving set theories, but will revisit. Overall, excellent read.
Very interesting book for lovers of numbers and the history of the development (discovery?) thereof.
