https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/770512.1066
1066.David Howarth takes a nearly thousand-year-old historical subject (well known by every British kid before they were allowed out of school I'd imagine) and retells the story in a most readable, almost fairytale way.
When England decided she preferred local boy Harold over a bastard foreigner who didn't even speak their language, William was incensed to say the least, incensed enough to lead one of the most ambitious invasions of the era.When people think "1066" they often think of the Bayeux Tapestry...Highly regarded by historians, the tapestry is the story of the Battle of Hastings and the events leading up to it.
David Howarth is another historian I would invite over to dinner every Sunday night if he lived nearby and weren’t already dead.
Even better, Howarth was an accomplished sailor, so he can offer educated speculation about the logistics of crossing the English Channel in various vessels – with war horses!
My favorite aspect of his writing style is his matter of fact tone: he says, “Here’s what one original source says, here’s what this other original source says, here’s why they’re both suspect, and, for what it’s worth, here’s what I think probably happened.” It’s quality, in-depth scholarship for people with short attention spans.
But the most popular battle of the Norman invasion takes up only one chapter of the book, with much of the rest providing a cultural and social history within which you can get a better understanding of the historical arc of the entire year.Before Howarth jumps into any history, however, he gives sets up a picture of daily life in a village called Horstede, which happens to be where King Harold first learned about William’s invasion across the English Channel.
This book is more storytelling and conjecture, than historical fact. The author says this in the beginning, because there is not enough history about it, plus the history it does have are written by the invaders to make them and their leader look more favorable.Overall, I really enjoyed this book. The storytelling was on point and kept the reader interested.
I picked up this slender volume along with a few others on the last walk to visit that place, the Amarynth and the Public Library, Bookman's owner assuring me that he'd be around for at least another month.I'd read Howarth before, some of his WWII memoirs about Norway.
This is more objective, more a straight attempt at historical reconstruction, yet still personable, a pleasant read all around.As promised, Howarth's examination of the Norman conquest and the events leading up to it shattered a lot of my preconceptions about 1066 while broadening and deepening my understanding of the Norse, English and Norman cultures involved.
The tale of the conquest of England by the Normans has been shaped like usual throughout history by the victors. This examination of the conquest and the events preceding it draws from both English and Norman sources. It is an interesting read and the author does a good job of describing the time period but it wasn't a page turner.
A great little book that chronicles the infamous year in English history that began with the death of King Edward and ended with the battle of Hastings and the ascension of William the Conqueror, changing England forever.
Howarth carefully compares the subjective written accounts of these events and offers his own reasoned opinions.
He also gives us a wonderful glimpse of everyday life in the typical English village of Horstede both at the beginning and at the end of this fateful year.
This may be a little romanticized - the Anglo-Saxons, unlike their Norman successors, practiced slavery after all – but it creates an appealing contrast to grimly militaristic Normandy, and to the fire and sword William brought to his new domain.Peaceful as its subjects' lives may have been, England was, at the level of the royal court, unstable.
Howarth gives thoughtful character sketches of each of these actors, and fine and pithy descriptions of rural village life, of the two coronations that bookended the year (Harold's and William's), of the primitive ships that William somehow used to bring his army and war horses to England, and of the climactic Battle of Hastings.
Even knowing the outcome ahead of time, the story is still so engrossing that you can't help but keep turning the page.I quite agree with Howarth's assessment of the principal characters; how he'd have liked King Harold, felt sorry for Tostig, and been terrified of William.
Harald is quite an enigma to me still, and I'd like to read more about the "last of the great Vikings".Here you're given a much more objective view of Harold and there doesn't seem to be much to dislike about him.
You can't help but feel sorry for him, once he saw the papal banner that William carried, and given the terrible way in which he died.
David Howarth used contemporary sources to tell the story, while trying not to be too biased about the events, and he was able to make me empathize with several of the important characters in the story, even though they opposed each other.The events that led to the Battle of Hastings were so incredible, it was almost hard to believe that all of these events occurred within just one year's time.
Still, it was a great book, and I'm glad I read it because it is one of the stories that helps you make connections with other events in history.
This is a fantastic little book about the Norman conquest of England, a piece of history I was rather oblivious to until recently.
This is primarily a book about what it was like for an Englishman in 1066 and the conditions that led to the invasion, or rather, invasions.
Snorri Sturleson's Icelandic Saga, Heimskringla, provides the best account of Harald Hardrada's invasion, which I'm sure to be reviewing at some point in the future.
As for William the Conqueror's invasion, no English accounts survive, which tells you something about the nature of the conquest and it's aftermath.
Howarth gives us more of a popular history than a scholarly history, but with plenty of references to the mostly Norman and French sources about the principals.
Howarth doesn't really point to any other scholars of recent memory (none close to when this was published in 1977.) As expected, it reads as a popular history published for an English audience.
Harold Godwinson is a sympathetic but tragic character; Tostig is pathetic and delusional, desperate to regain his lost Earldom; Duke William is fearsome and proud, feeling spurned by his rejected claim; and Harald is a cunning opportunist, ready for plunder.
We all know the date 1066 was when the Battle of Hastings occurred, where William (the Conqueror) of Normandy defeated King Harold and his army.
What most of don’t know is what the motivation for this battle was.
What this author has done is compare twenty different extant sources of the battle history and by the process of eliminating the impossible and then the improbable leads us to the ‘mostly likely’ conclusions about the precursors of the battle and the battle itself.
In short, this review of the battle and its implications by this author provides a literate history that is both enlightening and enjoyable.
But until I read this book, I never had a clear idea of what England was like BEFORE the Normans showed up.
I would have expected that the Norman knights would have had a clear advantage over the English infantry, but they really didn't.
It sounded like what had made the big difference was the kind of leadership available during the battle.I really enjoyed this book.
It did a great job of making the personalities behind the names come to life.
It was mentioned so often throughout this book, and I really have no idea what it looks like.
Great for history buffs.
Jaw dropping, interesting, profound!
LOVED this historic read.
I knew that William conquered England, I knew he brought the Norman culture and built castles, I knew that the french influence lasted for 300 years...but I did not really understand the implications to the english!
I loved that!
Before the conquest, england did not have, or need, castles...William built them to defend himself from the english and as prisons.
This 207 page book was one of the most enlightening historical works I have read!
Interesting and FUN!
If you ever wondered why so many English words have French roots, you only need look at what happened in 1066.
England's king died, another one was selected and the Duke of Normandy thought that the throne had been promised to him.
What I hadn't realized previously was that the king of England had to fight the Vikings a short time prior to the Battle of Hastings.
I also hadn't realized how difficult it was to move armies (including horses) across water.
And since the invading army didn't bring enough supplies, they ravaged the countryside.
It's no wonder that the English didn't welcome their visitors.
I just really liked how Howarth meticulously, joyfully crawls inside an iconic event in British history -the Battle of Hastings-to reveal the underlying moving parts. Most people don't grasp how unruly and organic the modes of power were in the middle-ages, since all we know of Europe is really the shit that happened after the Industrial Revolution. To have a skilled historian like Howarth guide you through an alien time period doesn't eliminate the mystery of understanding but it does enhance it.
This book is in my top favorites I've read so far this year. Howarth details the events in the year leading up to the Norman conquest of England. He also gives a clear picture of what daily life was like in the Middle Ages for nobles and villagers alike. The battles don't come until near the end of the book. I didn't find them to be too gory or full of boring strategy details. Howarth makes history entirely readable in this short, engaging book.
A fantastic history book, but still for an academic audience. That said, it's the most accessable academic history book I've read (though I haven't read a whole bunch). Reviews of the book talk about his wit and, compared to a lot of similar historians, he has it.He gives a great view of the daily life of Englanders before the Normans and, though he does seem a little "Anglo-centric" at times, it is definitely a good read.
A history book that reads like a story? I loved that the author takes several different accounts of the time and uses his common sense and available historic knowledge to deliver his history of England in 1066. Although he claims to be unbiased it is obvious that he is an Englishman writing about a country that he loves dearly. A great book, easy reading.
I would say this is one of the top five best history books I have ever read. This is an excellent introduction to one of the most important events in western European history. If you ware interested in the Norman conquest of England this book is the best place to start.
'1066: The Year of the Conquest' is a fast read, but very interesting. For anyone who wants to know about William the Conqueror, the Battle of Hastings and what led up to the conquest, this is a great place to start. Obviously, I love reading history.
Read this in history of western civ way back
In 1066: The Year of the Conquest, David Howarth uses a common village not far from the battle of Hastings to set the scene for the events of that fateful year.
Howarth interjects the necessary background information for each character when they appear for the first time in the year 1066.Howarth’s approach to dealing with the year 1066 is unique.
He does an excellent job examining all of the written accounts from both the English and Norman viewpoints.
I believe anyone interested in the Middle Ages should read this book because it demonstrates the importance of good historiography.
The serene cottages and the everyday toil from earth to table as a wholesome way of life.
Common folk in the rural, emotionally looking the other way figuratively in how politics governed their simple existence, it seemed to suit them.
That volley of exchanges for the throne of England had begun as King Harold was challenged by the Duke, William of Normandy.
Had William of Normandy failed to receive the 'blessing' it seems King Harold of England would have turned back the tides with more assertiveness as he had done previously in the year against the Norsemen.
The author read all of the primary sources for the conquest, but then put his mind to work: keeping a critical eye on those medieval authors' motivations so he could get near to the truth, and trying to imagine what all of the people involved in the conquest were like and why they did what they did.
If you're looking for a purely military history, this isn't necessarily the book for you.
Howarth had a long career writing military history, and had been an important Naval officer in World War II (or so Wikipedia says; take it with as much salt as you care to), so he seems to know his stuff there, but the point of the book is more the politics and the personalities.
I read this for the first time in college for a medieval history class, and I remember really liking it.
I realize that is basically inevitable when telling a nearly 1000 year old history, but it's easier to make guesses about battle tactics than it is about a person's thoughts.
Howarth makes a lot of suppositions about what Harold and William might have thought, and that all became a little too hazy for me.I do, however, totally enjoy and embrace the fantasy that one-eyed Harold survived the Battle of Hastings and lived the rest of his life in a cave in Wales only to reveal his identity on his deathbed.
It's hard to write a book about a series of events that happened almost 1000 years ago, but Howarth does an excellent job with the biased and limited source material.
He analyzes these sources, identifying their bias, but goes further than other authors in that he explains the reasons for the bias.
Furthermore, he puts the events in context by looking at the cultural and geographical context.

As might be expected with an invasion and battle that involved the killing of two kings and many thousands of British villagers that occurred almost 1,000 years ago there are many different versions of the story.
In a concise little book the author considers many of these versions and offers his opinions of the most likely version of the events and why the variations differ.
I found it especially interesting how well the author described as background the civil structure of the small towns and villages of the period.
The fourth or fifth of Mr. Howarth's books that I've read, all of which I highly recommend.
