https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1264299.Curious_George_Gets_a_Medal
But that scar stayed with him the rest of his life and to this day I have a righteous prejudice against goddamn poodles!* * * * * * * * * * *EDIT* * * * * * * * * * * * * * *Review With My 4-Year-Old Niece EmmaEmma was acting like a crazy little monkey herself and I needed to calm her stat, so I went with the tested and true "story time!" technique, speed-reading through the first couple pages of Curious George Gets a Medal to get her attention.
I guess I did read this one as a kid. Funny that I remember him trying to pour the ink into the funnel and making a mess, and not the wackier stuff like George being sent into space in a rocket!
At the museum, George explores the various displays, and is enticed by a fake banana tree in a dinosaur exhibit.
You're better than this!) and it looks like George is in some deep shit--not the inattentive guards, mind you, but the monkey--until the poacher shows up with impeccable timing and identifies George to Professor Wiseman as the monkey to whom he (Wiseman) had previously sent a letter.It seems Professor Wiseman has developed a rocket (ummm....) and wants to launch George into space.
The Curious George books are part of a larger genre of children's fiction, popular during the 1940's and 50's, of mild-mannered domesticated wild animals.
While these animals are always goodwilled, their wild nature causes trouble even as they seek to integrate into human society.Young children have adored the Curious George books since the first one was published in the 1940s, and their popularity remains undiminished in our household.
George is a monkey from the Amazon who was captured and brought home by the Man in the Yellow Hat. George happily settles into domestic life, but remains a mischievous monkey who constantly got into trouble, usually by failing to follow instructions from humans.
The moral message of Curious George.The end is near my friends, and the man in the yellow hat is to blame.I always enjoy looking at art for kids (in literature and movies) and considering the moral message.
Sometimes it’s a positive message, other times it’s teaching a murky moral lesson.
What do you want to teach them?Putting on a TV show or movie for a kid while the adults eat is great, but not all shows are created equally.
I liked Curious George as a kid, but what are they about.
That’s not a great moral message for kids.
This story makes me cringe a bit reading it to impressionable 4-year-olds.
George is pretty darn naughty with his curiosity in this one, first spilling ink, then flooding the house in his effort to clean it up and creating mischief for a neighboring farmer.
In a convoluted way, he ends up at the museum where, once again, he gets himself in trouble.
Once the museum director realizes this monkey is the one he was hoping to use for a space launch, all is forgiven.
George goes up in a rocket and bails for the experiment and ends up hero of the day.
He goes from making a mess at home, trying to clean it up and flooding the house in the process, going for a ride on a cow while stealing a pump (for the flood), jumps on a passing truck to escape the farmers, which takes him to a museum, where he makes a huge mess and gets caught.
His friend just happens to show up because George got a letter from the museum director, who has asked him to go to space in a rocket, for which he gets the medal.
What I like, is that he goes to space, takes care of his mission successfully and comes home to much fanfare!
This 1957 book is a little dated (fountain pens, ink spills, blotter, first monkey in space) but that didn't detract from its charm at all. George gets into a lot of trouble in this book and my three-year-old son loved it.
My son from birth has always been surrounded with Curious George. Today at the ripe old age of 3 he travels everywhere with his stuffed George doll, and morning cuddle time he is a mainstay. He loves the cartoons on PBS as well. For me, I remember as a kid going to my ped. for Dr. appts, always looking for a certain George book, (George Goes to the Hospital) for the waiting room. Luckily it was always available in the waiting room. A couple years ago I found a beautiful hardcover boxset at B&amp
Today at the ripe old age of 3 he travels everywhere with his stuffed George doll, and morning cuddle time he is a mainstay.
for Dr. appts, always looking for a certain George book, (George Goes to the Hospital) for the waiting room.
A couple years ago I found a beautiful hardcover boxset at B&N that I thought would make a great Xmas gift for my son, and it included the Hospital book along with this one.
The simplicity and innocense of the time period when written is highly apparent which for me I want for my son.
In this story, George gets into quite a lot of trouble!
The story leads George to needing a pump to get the water out of the room, but it was at a farm and he had no way to carry it back.
After the man in the yellow hat realizes the letter was really for George and that Professor Wiseman wanted him to go to space, George becomes the first animal in space and receives a medal.After reading this book again in my adulthood, I realize I don't enjoy it as much as I did as a kid.
George gets a letter but since he can't read it he decides to write a letter himself.
He hides from the farmers and ends up at a museum.
The museum's Professor Wiseman says to send the monkey back to the zoo where it probably came from.
But the man with the big yellow hat gets there with the letter.
The letter was from the professor asking George to go on a space mission on a spaceship that can only fit a small monkey.
George agrees and the mission is successful.
George gets a medal and he is very proud.
This is the happiest day of George’s life. In this one, You will see lots of lather, disaster on a farm, the museum of science and an experiment to send an animal into space. What is there not to like? It is full of adventure, misfortune, comedy and beautiful illustrations done over 60 years ago. This is a piece of history.
Not my favorite.. I thought it was a little long and hard to keep children's attention. It was very playful and shows that accidents happen. Good for silent reading, I personally wouldn't read it aloud.
Fun book. Love the "Curious George" books.
George coerced into being a test pilot after being abandoned
George is so curious, and a bit mischievous, that he ends up going to space. Silly and fun.
Quite the ADD story, but I guess that describes all the classic Curious George stories. This story (and the others) would be great for an early reader, but as stories - they are quite irrational and follows no real plot. But my son James would sit and listen to the classic Curious George stories for hours. I guess that says something.
I chose it for my Picture Books as Sequential Art class because Curious George books are so classic that they haven't been out of print since they were written in the 1940s.When I went back to see which of the books for my class were created by a single author/illustrator, I found out that Hans and Margaret Rey, a married couple, worked closely together to create the curious George works.From the Houghten Mifflin website “Curious About George?”:How did the Reys work together to create their wonderful books?Hans liked to say that the couple had “our books, her books, and my books,” and the process behind each of these was different.
For the books that they created together, which include the original seven Curious George stories and Whiteblack the Penguin Sees the World, Hans was usually in charge of the ideas and the illustrations, while Margret handled the plot and the writing.
I read this book to my class today and, being the amazing teacher that I am (haha), I managed to work like 982374 things into this bad boy!This was the story of Curious George who does eventually get a medal on the last page of the book.
We asked such questions as, "Why was George delighted?" "How is he staying on the cow?" And so forth.
I also used it as a text-to-text connection since the kids in our second grade reading story today were dressing up as astronauts for their 100th Day of School party for some reason.
I should probably read other Curious Georges.
This is the book that started my lifelong love of reading.
This book was considered to be a 4th grade reading level book, but I was determined to read it.
At that time, my school used AR(accelerated reader), a test designed to determine if a student comprehended the book he/she had read.
Starting in the 5th grade all of my reading teachers wanted me to read "adult classic" books(ie Little Women or Dracula).
By the 7th grade, I had the reading level of a post high school graduate.
I'm rather concerned by George's accolades since he spent the whole book wreaking havok.
For those curious, Wiki it.The first ever monkey astronaut was Albert, a rhesus monkey, who on June 11, 1948 rode to over 63 km (39 mi) on a V2 rocket.
Albert died of suffocation during the flight.[1][2][3]Albert was followed by Albert II who survived the V2 flight but died on impact on June 14, 1949 after a parachute failure.Albert VI, along with 11 mouse crewmates, became the first animals to survive rocket flight on September 20, 1951, although he died 2 hours after landing.On May 28, 1959, aboard the JUPITER AM-18, Able, a rhesus monkey, and Miss Baker, a squirrel monkey, became the first monkeys to successfully return to Earth after traveling in space.http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monkey...
The plot:George gets a letter.George decides to write a letter.Naturally, writing a letter leads to flooding the house.
(wha?)George decides that he needs a pump to empty the flood water.George goes to a farm.George releases over a dozen pigs, gets kicked by a goat, and steals a cow and a pump.George runs away.George hops on an unknown vehicle.Vehicle takes George to a museum, where George destroys an exhibit.The Man happens to be at the museum, and lo and behold- the museum director had been the writer of the original letter.The letter asked George to travel to space.George goes to space.George gets a medal.The neighbor cleaned the house....
I am generally pretty fond of the Curious George books, but not when they are this scattered
This is another we read tonight from The Complete Adventures of Curious George borrowed through overdrive and the library to my Kindle Fire.
The formatting is faulty with double text but we still enjoyed the story.
I found that this story must have been the origins for a PBS Curious George episode on the television (watched through Netflix) where the man with the yellow hat buys a new carpet and George spills juice and the stories are very similar with the house through the window, a cow and a pump.
But then the book goes in completely crazy directions to a museum and then outer space...
Synopsis: "After repeatedly disastrous efforts to get himself out of trouble, George ends up being the first monkey in space."My Review: What a difference there is in one of the early Curious George books to the newer ones.
This was one of the older books I found in a lot.
The story is a lot longer with less illustrations than the newer books.
There weren't as many pictures for him to look at and George was very small on several of the pages.
He did however love seeing George in the space suit and getting to go into space.
Curious George is a monkey with good intentions and a knack for trouble.
It all starts with a letter addressed to George, and ends with a flooded apartment, pigs all over the farm, and broken exhibits in the museum.
After all that trouble though, The Man in the Yellow Hat finds George to tell him that he is invited to go into space.
George receives the title of the first space monkey and a medal to boot!Curious George is a fun character that many kids are familiar with.
This could be a good companion book for students who watch the Curious George TV show.
My least favourite so far; the other books I like in part because they are about things that preschoolers often do -- not in the specifics, but the category of action.
This one begins that way, with George making a mess and trying to clean it up himself, but then the farm adventure, although funny, is a little out of sync, and the ending part with the rocket ship does not really fit.
I suppose the other books are similar in that the endings (making the movie, performing in the circus) are often sheer fantasy for the child reading, but somehow this one just rubs me the wrong way.
Curious George is always getting into trouble. After many attempts to get out of trouble, Curious george the mokey ends up being the first monkey in space. These books are terrific tools for modeling behavior and teaching children about the consequences of their actions. They also help to reinforce the concept that a little curiosity is healthy, a lot can be a problem. The book is on a grade level of 3 and has a lexile measure of 570L.
My five-year-old son picked this book out from the library last week. He is on a Curious George kick. This book was good, and it was fun to see all the trouble and mischief that George could create, but it was a bit too long to keep my five-year-old's interest all the way through. The illustrations, of course, were perfection.
Love the classic Curious George! This (for those of you who have watched the more modern day cartoon show) is a combination of George's first visit to the museum, his encounter with making a mess on the carpet and try to clean it up as best he can. Including going to the neighbor farm house to 'borrow' the pump. Then he goes up to space in a rocket.
Some more fantastical adventures from George. Starting with receiving a letter, he makes a huge mess trying to write one himself which causes him to end up riding a cow and letting the pigs out. Then, as he escapes, he finds himself in the museum, knocking down the dinosaur exhibit, and eventually he ends up being the first Space Monkey and getting a medal!
