https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/852470.I_d_Tell_You_I_Love_You_But_Then_I_d_Have_to_Kill_You
It’s a series that explores the idea of being a teenage spy going to a boarding school that teaches spies how to neutralize an enemy, dozen of foreign languages, to unravel a bomb and other kickass things necessary for teenage spies to know.It’s up to the readers to decide if to believe or not all they’re reading about, but it truly isn’t very hard to, because Ally Carter created something amazing here.
And we haven’t learned everything yet; there’s still so much left to discover.Reading this series makes the reader feel like he’s part of something special.BD | Blog | Youtube | Twitter | Instagram | Google+ | Bloglovin’
I picked this book up because of all the media hyper surrounding it—the Disney option and the New York Times bestseller status, not to mention the cute cover and interesting premise.
But those were for the most part ignored, except for some scenes where Cammie feels the loss that her friend could be facing and feels the loss of her own father, which I felt were the best parts in this entire novel.Because of all the superfluous jokes and one-liners inserted in places that did not require the likes of them.
A high-school-drama-filled book that I can read and enjoy without the need to use my brain a whole lot.
Welcome to spy school!"Every time I caught a glance at the world around us, I saw another year of my life flash before my eyes."Cammie, spy in training, is witty, smart, independent, yet clueless when it comes to boys.
We do see the characters in spy-mode, but it's nothing that got me taking notes (yet.
I found this book to be more of an introduction to the spy-school.
Anyone looking at this elite private boarding school would see just what The Gallagher Academy wants you to see--a preppy school for privileged girls, complete with a guardhouse and stone wall to keep the curious away from their precious charges.
Cammie Morgan is a second-generation Gallagher girl--her mother, who also attended the school, is now the headmistress.
Cammie has spent most of her life inside the walls of The Gallagher Academy, and now that another semester is starting, complete with new CoveOps teacher, hunky Joe Solomon, she's really looking forward to the new school year.
Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Pinterest If you are looking for a refreshing Young-Adult read, with college unlike any other - this is the perfect book for you!  I'd Tell You I Love You, But Then I'd Have to Kill You  is the first book from the Gallagher Girl series, where we meet girls that go to a school for spies, and nobody except them, knows it.The Gallagher Academy is a typical all-girls-school, except, instead of normal subjects, they learn advanced martial arts and chemical warf
Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Pinterest If you are looking for a refreshing Young-Adult read, with college unlike any other - this is the perfect book for you!
is the first book from the Gallagher Girl series, where we meet girls that go to a school for spies, and nobody except them, knows it.The Gallagher Academy is a typical all-girls-school, except, instead of normal subjects, they learn advanced martial arts and chemical warfare studies, they have exams where they need to spy, or go unnoticed, or steal.We meet Cammie Morgan, who happens to be the headmistress's daughter, and when she goes on a mission and gets noticed by a boy - everything changes and her life is suddenly everything but normal.
What if I could kill a man (or woman) with a ketchup bottle?I'd Tell You I Love You, But Then I'd Have to Kill You by Ally Carter is my teenage fantasy come to life.Cammie Morgan has an elite spy heritage.
Cammie is the epitome of female empowerment.So, why did this young adult novel leave me disappointed?I often had the sense that the book, the first in a series, is just a glorified screenplay.
I couldn’t help but wonder if Carter envisioned a movie as she wrote these scenes.I love young adult novels—and sometimes I worry I still have the mentality of a 13-year-old.
I cared more about his love life than Cammie’s.
This whole book was a buzzkill.
The writing is so juvenile and the humour is so forced im still cringing from exposureThe characters are annoying as frick man.

REREAD: July 2015 Since, I finished Gallagher Girls recently, certain things has been bugging.
All I can say is I love it so much better now.
Oh my sweet summer children.
Initial reading date:  January 20, 2015Gallagher Girls has been sitting in my kindle for a while and I actually tried reading it before, but I wasn't impressed with the writing.The funny thing about it, I talk like the protagonist online and offline.
The good thing is, I got used to it and it eventually got better.
There were some snubbing other girls part, but overall it is sweet and adventurous.
I liked this book in the same way that I like the Princess Diaries movies (1 and 2).
And when the lights come up (or I reach the back cover), there's a smile on my face.Cammie "The Chameleon" goes to a spy school.
Yes, at times, the plot is cringe-worthy (I mean, the basic conflict is the fact that she can't tell the perfect boy that she can throw him to the pavement from six different positions), but the dialogue is good, and you can tell that Ally really had a lot of fun with her concept.
But I'm luckier than most because, at my school, that's considered cool.-I go to a school for spies.”"Learn Her Skills, Honor Her Sword, Keep Her Secrets" Gallagher Academy for Exceptional Young Women is an all-girls school.
there is nothing more to his character except he is a subject of Cammie's interests.Rachel Morgon; The MomCammie's mom and Gallagher's Headmistress, Rachel is described breathtakingly beautiful by Cammie.
(hide spoiler)]Joe Solomon aka Teacher I'd Like To Kiss Mr. Solomon is the new CovOp teacher.
He is also very tough on students and (view spoiler)[I can't believe there was a time in the book when I began to hate him.
It’s the kind of book that can pull you out of a reading slump, that feels effortless to read and that just makes reading so much fun!Cammie Morgan goes to the Gallagher Academy for Exceptional Young Women, which sounds like a fancy school for rich kids, but is actually a school for spies.
The only other book that gave me the same feeling was Vampire Academy, because of Rose and Lissa’s friendship (speaking of VA, go read that series, okay?).The writing is so so funny.
Read as part of the ABN Summer Reading Challenge recommended by ZohaThis was pretty much candy floss in book format; I liked it at the beginning because it was so light and fluffy but by the end it gets all...
Well you know how candy floss looks a bit crap by the end and you get sick of its endless sugary sweetness...So this was a fun quick read but felt very lower ya / middle grade to me and I was just a bit bored with it by the ending.
3.5It was a pretty good book. Kind of a guilty pleasure but such a fun read. I would LOVE to be a spy.
Cammie’s mother is a retired CIA operative but now headmistress of the Gallagher academy; a school for spies which Cammie attends.The academy is there to train up girls who have the natural talent, intelligence or have the spy “genes” running through their family.
And her friends think that she is mixing up priorities, are the Gallagher girls and becoming a spy; everything she’s been brought up to do important or a boy?So why the 2.5 stars?I’d tell you I love but then I’d have to kill you was a funny humorous read and honestly that was the only reason I carried on reading the book until the end.
This is one of those nostalgia books.
They're not exactly high-class literature, but the Ghallager Girls are great fun.
Like that doesn't make everyone want to read a book.
Fast-paced and never boring.
It's exactly the kind of fast-paced fun you need in your life.
You'll never feel like putting this series down.
It especially improves as it goes; this is really the worst book of the five I've read.
Fun characters.
Macie, Cammie, Liz, and Bex are the greatest foursome of all time.
Their relationship especially develops over time.
This series is laugh-out-loud funny.
it's all fun.
it's all fun.
Pure brain candy fluffy fluff.
It would be so easy to knock so many aspects of this novel but I won't because there is one thing which I absolutely loved about it ~ the girls in Ally Carter's spy school actually value academics and when the going gets tough, they choose integrity and personal values over boys.
Somewhere I read that this series actually matures a little with the girls so I'll be continuing this series.
Again, it's fluffy and a little young, perhaps middle or even grade school.
“The time for crying with your girlfriends about a broken heart is over chocolate ice cream and chick flicks—not stun guns and bulletproof vests.”     Review  You know those books that are quirky, a little simple, maybe even childish, but you just can't help falling in love with? Well ladies and gentlemen, this is one of those books. I adored it! I admit, I was a bit skeptical over the cheesy title and cliché synopsis, but I'd Tell You I Love You, But Then I'd Have To Kill You was clever, cute
I admit, I was a bit skeptical over the cheesy title and cliché synopsis, but I'd Tell You I Love You, But Then I'd Have To Kill You was clever, cute, and overall a great read.
The conversations in this book truly are outstanding.Josh.Similar to Bex, Liz, and Macy, Josh lacks character depth, but he's supposed to be an average teenage boy, so his lack of depth is understandable...even though it was annoying.
For the longest time I didn't read this book, purely because the title was pretty cheesy and the cover didn't look unique or very eye-catching.- As I mentioned earlier, Josh and the supporting characters lacked any development, whatsoever.
In the end, the idea of spies won out and I read the book that I'd been staring at on the library shelf for a while.
Who wouldn't want to be a Chameleon who could blend anywhere?Cammie's friends were pretty cool, too.
An another thing I liked: the Gallagher Girls are your usual high-school girls from your average book, but they're not catty.
It's like the Gallagher Sisters thing really strengthened them, and being a genius means you don't have to be nasty.
The style was snappy-normal-person-talk (always fun to read.) Cammie was slightly sarcastic (I love sarcastic protagonists) and all up, yes, a very good book.
Průměrná jednohubka, tak akorát napsaná pro mladší dívky (13-15 let) nebo pro nečtenářky. Zabavilo mě to, účel splnilo. :)
VÍTEJTE V TAJNÝCH SLUŽBÁCH.Tam, kde se Mission Impossible potkává s Barbie a Školou pro princezny.No...
CO JSEM OČEKÁVALA?
Bandu naštvaných coolovních holek, co to dají špatňákům sežrat!CO JSEM DOSTALA?
už jsem stará.
Jej, pevně doufám, že mé dvanáctileté já by se mnou souhlasilo.Občas mi ale obočí lítalo nahoru a dolů rychleji než Haltovi, frkala jsem častěji než kůň a pak jsem i přemýšlela, jestli to náhodou celé není myšleno jako parodie na jakýkoliv detektivní seriál...
Ale i jako parodie by to stálo za krtinec.Prostě...
PŘÍSAHÁM NA HOLÝ PUPEK.PS: A slibila jsem Filipovi, ze pokud to precte, koupim mu dortik.
But I was hoping for some James Bond/Cody Banks/Spy Kids action.This book is about Cammie Morgan, a student at the elite Gallagher Academy, which is essentially an all-girl school for spies.
However, some boy advice will come in handy when she starts up a secret relationship with a normal boy- who thinks she is just a normal girl.This book was cute.
Don't you think in a book about spies, there should be some bad guys?
Essentially, this book is about a girl who meets a boy.
It's cute, light, and I'm sure tweenage girls will eat it up.
I'd Tell You I Love You, But Then I'd Have to Kill You was cheesy in the best way! I was really intrigued when I read the blurb and it was about teenage girls attending spy school! How cool! The book was light and fun, and was exactly what I wanted. There was action, romance, and friendship, and I felt like all of those things were done really well. When I picked up the book, I wasn't sure that I'd want to read the rest of the series, but now I definitely want to find out what happens next!
Was a free audiobook download via SYNC .I tried but I am just not in the mood to listen to this narrator. Her "teen" voice sounds childish and forced and more like a tween and it is grating on every single one of my frayed nerves.I may get back to this some day when I'm less grouchy. But probably not.The book may be fab, nothing against the book, but I just can't do it right now.
It is actually really good. Not Twilight good, but it has a good story to it.
English 425 Submitter’s name: Crystal AlexanderBook Bank Book Bank subject: RomanceReference information: Title: I’d Tell you I Love You, But Then I’d Have to Kill YouAuthor: Ally CarterPublisher: First Hyperion Paperbacks Year: 2006# of pages: 284 Genre: RomanceReading level Interest level: 8th or 9th GradePotential hot lava: Has some references to violence but, not used as a weapon used as protectionGeneral response/reaction: I love romance novels so I was really exited to read this book. I fi
I really think that the big idea is being true to you while still being yourself and falling in love.Characters: Cammie: aka the chameleon, she blends in well with average a person which makes her a great spy.Bex: aka the Duchess, she is really strong and really smart, Cammie’s best friend.Liz: aka Bookworm, has a photogenic memory, but writes down everything just to be on the safe side.Josh: aka the normal boy, just your normal town kid, who Cammie falls for and spies on.Plot summary: The girls at Gallagher Academy learn the basics of how to be a spy and work for the CIA.
i was amazed at how much i liked this book.it was eciting and funny i just the right combo.i loved it enough that i have already bought most of the series, and that's saying something i mostly read fantasy.
I've forgotten how addictive this series was! I'm so glad I decided to read this baby again. Everything about this felt really familiar. It's almost like coming home. Reading this the second time around didn't change how sassy and quirky everything was. I can't wait to meet Zach...again! “Yes, my heart cried, but my brain spoke of a biochemistry midterm, seven chapters of COW reading, and two weeks' worth of lab reports for Dr. Fibs."  Legit proof  that Cammie is my spirit animal!Oh and I'm bump
I've forgotten how addictive this series was! I'm so glad I decided to read this baby again. Everything about this felt really familiar. It's almost like coming home. Reading this the second time around didn't change how sassy and quirky everything was. I can't wait to meet Zach...again!
  “Yes, my heart cried, but my brain spoke of a biochemistry midterm, seven chapters of COW reading, and two weeks' worth of lab reports for Dr. Fibs."

  Legit proof
 that Cammie is my spirit animal!Oh and I'm bumping it up to 5 stars!
Darling book. Made me wish I could go to spy school.
When I was younger I loved "Totally Spies" and "Spy kids". Having these shows combined with a teenage girl going to boarding school? Pretty awesome.
