https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/152382.Mary_Poppins_Comes_Back
Mary Poppins Comes Back (Mary Poppins #2), P.L. TraversPulled down from the clouds at the end of a kite string, Mary Poppins is back.
In Mary’s care, the Banks children meet the King of the Castle and the Dirty Rascal, visit the upside-down world of Mr. Turvy and his bride, Miss Topsy, and spend a breathless afternoon above the park, dangling from a clutch of balloons.
تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز پانزدهم ماه می سال 1974 میلادیعنوان: مری پاپینز برمیگردد؛ اثر: پاملا لیندون پ.
شربیانی
This part was so magical and eerie and left you with a feeling of not knowing what on earth just happened.There is a scene where Mary discovers a Lark kept as a pet by Mr Banks old Nanny who is so horrible you can instantly see why Mr Banks is the way he is.
We loved the way the children hear Mary Poppins side of the conversation with the lark so you can work out what the bird is saying.
We loved the fact that Mary Poppins is disgusted by a bird being put in a cage and (view spoiler)[ not only sets the lark free but traps Mr Bank's old Nanny in cage so she can experience what it feels like.
No wonder I and so many others never realized quite how many books there are in this series.In Mary Poppins Comes Back, the legendary nanny reappears from the sky with as much notice as she gave when she vanished at the end of the very first book: none.
Chapters on Mr. Banks’ harridan of an ex-nanny, on a celestial circus, and on the Dirty Rascal prove particularly satisfying.
While not quite in the same league as the 1934 debut Mary Poppins book, adults and children alike will still love the sequel.
The children are still charming (including the new addition of Annabel), the parents are still useless and blithering, there are even hints that certain members of the staff are also somehow magical or something, and Mary Poppins is still cross and priggish and mean and glaring.
The magic is still kind of fun to read in parts, but there doesn't seem to be any rhyme or reason to it (like, who IS Mary Poppins?
We see a couple more glimpses of elements used in the movie and stage musical in this book, including the fearsome Miss Andrew, the former nanny of Mr. Banks.
This book is between a 4.25 and 4.5 rating for me. Oddly enough I enjoyed this sequel more than the first book. When I read the first book I had no idea what to expect and was really surprised by what I read though I still enjoyed it. This time I was more familiar with Travers’s version of Mary Poppins and was able to just enjoy the stories like children-at-heart are supposed to. I plan on reading the third book soon.
Another dazzling, comedic and fantastic addition to the classic Mary Poppins series! This is technically a children's book, but it can certainly be read by all ages, not to mention that the author's depiction of Edwardian England is just amazing. :)
Rereading them now is going back in time.In Mary Poppins Comes Back she does—come back—as unexpectedly and unapologetically as she left at the end of Mary Poppins.
The author, P.L. Travers, knew what appealed to children of my generation.
Although the books may seem strange (tame?) to children today who are used to so much more action, for those who long for less and like things at a slower pace, these books are a treat.They remind me of old-fashioned ballads with numerous verses which are fun to sit around a camp or a log-fire and enjoy.
I really enjoy Travers' writing. It's quaint and clever and quite funny. Such an interesting series so far. Mary Poppins is so enigmatic but lovable. I found myself thinking of the Phantom Tollbooth in this one; saw some similarities in style. I was also struck by how fantastical this one was; I think even more than the first. Entertaining, witty, and an unsurprisingly lovely read.
Many of the adventures in the books begin with the children following a creature or wandering off on their own to somewhere amazing without Mary, and then discovering she is already at the party.
She's pretty stuck-up and strict for a nanny who just blew into town with the wind.One of the flaws to the film adaptation is that the screenplay makes all of the adults seem ridiculous and the children the only sane characters.
In the books, the children have their very bad days (not wanting to wake up, grumpy and misbehaving), true-to-life, and there are still a few adult characters with collected senses.
Who is Mary Poppins really?
Many magical adventures again occur involving Mary Poppins and the Banks children.
And as in the first book, Mary Poppins never explains how any of the magical things happen to the children, never answers their questions.
It seems they are becoming more accepting of this in this second book, and just take her and the mysteries that surround her for part of who she is.
I am hoping some of my questions will eventually be answered, but like the Banks children I may eventually just give up and accept the mystery as having no answers.
I enjoyed this more than Mary Poppins. Travers ups her game by going even more cosmic and exploring the human need to attach underlying meaning to surface experience. Mary Poppins is a strict nanny, but the children love her because she is there and free of whimsy and inattention when it comes to their care. She's a pro, and the only one the Banks children have known. Mary's origin story would be something to behold, I am sure. I still get teary-eyed every time she leaves...
So I liked this one a little bit more than the first one. It was not as creepy as the first one, and I honestly don't know if it was because I got used to her creepiness or it was actually less creepy. The writing is beautiful and delightful, but still I'm not a fan of the characters. I still can't understand how did the kids love Mary Poppins when she showed them no affection whatsoever.
The stories are more engaging and entertaining when you’re expecting Mary Poppins to be stern to the point of rudeness instead of Julie Andrews.
In one of the stories in this book, Mary Poppins chides Michael for his bad behavior by telling him “a Zulu would behave better”...which is awkward.
I read and adored Tom Sawyer, but the story is about Tom coming to see Jim as a person instead of property.
Glad I read it now that I know this was the basis for the upcoming Disney movie, Mary Poppins Returns.
Mary Poppins is an endearing, sassy, and strict human whom I have regard very dearly.
However, in this reread I came across some interesting and questionable things that I hadn't noticed before.
These were just little issues that I spotted on this reread, and yet I couldn't stop thinking about them.
That said, I couldn't stop thinking about these issues while reading, which rather spoiled the book for me.
It's always upsetting when one of your favourite books as a kid gets ruined by some small philosophical/moral/ethical detail (does this happen to everyone??
But despite its flaws, Mary Poppins will always be one of my favourite fictional characters!!
another crappy book from the psychopath Mary PoppinsI am really starting to believe that the juice Mary Poppins gives the children the moment she arrives is actually some kind of drug just so they can obey her and not report her to the authorities, because this person is pure evil and there is not ounce of compassion in her ..
yes I know she is supposed to be teaching the children the truth about the world but she is just lying all the time and make them feel stupid and afraid to even share their opinion ..
let's see how much longer I can survive this before I give up
After finishing this book I'm inclined to think I like the adventures Mary Poppins brings more so than the actual Mary Poppins herself. Going to a constellation circus sounds absolutely amazing, but then Mary is always talking down to the children.And holy cow her vanity is so much worse in this one! Jeez lady we understand, you're beautiful. I feel like the only reason I liked the first so much is because I loved Julie Andrews. Let's hope the same holds true after the new one with Emily Blunt.
More imaginative adventures for the Banks children. However, some of them took on a Roald Dahlesque weirdness which I found bit odd for Mary Poppins. Still interesting enough to keep reading.
I highly recommend you consider checking out these slightly grittier books.Mary Poppins Comes Back is the second book in the series.
If you've seen the Disney movie, you could easily pick up this book and start from here; if you know nothing about Mary Poppins, I'd recommend starting with Mary Poppins.So in the books, Mary is rather stern with the Banks children, but it works.
No matter what is happening on Cherry Tree Lane, Mary Poppins and her magic can distract and/or make things better.
Audiobook performed by Sophie ThompsonFrom the book jacket: Pulled down from the clouds at the end of a kite string, Mary Poppins is here again to take the Banks children in hand, leading them from one head-spinning adventure to another.My reactionsOh, My!
My best friend and I would share the books back and forth, spending countless hours at recess and over lunch talking about Mary Poppins, the Banks children and their fantastical adventures.
This was before the Disney movie adaptation, which we eventually saw and loved, though we recognized the differences and were a little disappointed that some of our favorite adventures were missing.I re-read the first book when my first niece was about six (she’s 19 now), thinking I might want to give her the series.
This is the second Mary Poppins book.
Several chapters in this book inspired scenes in the Broadway musical, most notably the episode with Miss Andrew and her lark.
At first I thought that Travers was simply re-using her ideas---an upside down tea party, instead of one floating at the ceiling, and an evening out with at a celestial circus, instead of an evening at the zoo.
But after a while I had to conclude that this was deliberate on Travers' part.
Every chapter in this book has a twin in the first.
But there is an inevitable reference to the partner from the first book.
Mary Poppins és a gyerekek újabb kalandokba bonyolódnak.
Vannak olyan dolgok amiket nem foghatunk fel, mivel nem kell mindenre magyarázatot keresni!
A dolgok néha csak megtörténnek, hagyni kell őket, és csodálni!
:)Az első részhez képest, nekem ez egy kicsikét "unalmasabb" volt.
Úgy vettem észre, hogy sokszor hasonló a történet, mint ami az előző kötetben volt, ezért viszonylag tudtam, hogy mi fog történni.
Mary Poppinst nem kedveltem meg, mert szinte sosincs egy kedves szava gyerekekhez.
Nagyon zavart, hogy csak leteremteni tudta őket; persze tudom, hogy a szíve mélyén jó ember, de akkor is...ne csak a rossz szót hallják a gyerkőcök!
Which comes as no surprise, if you think about it, because even if she glares and scoffs overtly, she secretly enables children to go on adventures, offers help to those who need it or simply grants wishes for the sake of it.
The adventures are fun and memorable and some of the images continue to stick with me - I'm happy to revisit the stories they're in time and time again.
Another Charlotte bedtime book.
We loved this book.
It's like they went for your emotional jugular with most of the chapters.
There's a new baby in the Banks household and the sun comes and puts a twinkle in her eyes and the wind blows her hair curly.
The Banks children go to an emotional circus of celestial beings.
There's the tale of Robertson Aye, which is actually the tale of the king of the castle and the dirty rascal that helps him across the rainbow bridge, and it all culminates in everyone except the children saying goodbye to Mary Poppins as she returns to the sky on a carousel.
Way to continually tug at our heartstrings, book.
This is a much better book than #1. What I have learned about Mary Poppins is that she is a narcissist and a sadist. The children are drawn to her cruelty in a Stockholm-y way, simultaneously delighting in her treatment and desiring her approval of them. Since she isn't very nice to them and doesn't particularly like them, what does she get out of the deal? Heaven only knows, but I do enjoy seeing this, the original version of the character, in action.
Lovely. So mythical, imaginative and down to earth! I love this Mary Poppins and I love that there are now 5 children. Similar tones to Peter Pan but better (and less disturbing!). I look forward to reading the next one!
th is is a nice,fun,amazing,action packed book and i like it i think you should read it but be sure to read book #1 first
I use the word "forced" very intentionally, because - at least the way Sophie Thompson interprets this scene - Mary Poppins uses her goddess-like will to power to not only make Miss Andrew leave the premises, but pretty much metaphorically forces her to her knees to fearfully worship at the benevolent foot of Mary Poppins.
If you are coming to Mary Poppins fresh from Julie Andrews or Dick Van Dyke (or soon, Emily Blunt and Lin Manuel Miranda), you are in for some shock and awe.
By halfway through this second volume in the series, the children's episodic adventures in each chapter had become increasingly fantastical and somewhat repetitive – not to say formulaic. Mary Poppins was as intriguing and magical as ever. Other characters seemed mere pallid derivatives of those beloved creations in Travers' first book. In comparison, the story was never as moving as moments of that first book had the power to be, nor as joyous. I own the box set but shan't be rushing to read the next one for a little while.
2.5 starsI must say that this book made me realize what a total brat Mary Poppins is. She never seems to have a nice thing to say to anyone, and her attitude is annoying. I have to admit that I think Disney and Julie Andrews improved this character immensely. I'm not planning to read any more Mary Poppins books. I'm completely content watching the movie over and over again..
The wacky adventures of Mary Poppins continue in Mary Poppins Comes Back! It is pretty wacky when you have tea upside down with Mr. Turvy, and you float with balloons at the park, and whenever Mary Poppins goes to an ark, she meets wooden people who decorate and talk. It was very interesting, and I really liked it! I enjoyed this book so much that I want to keep reading other books!
