https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6512140-going-bovine
Libba's not just my client, she's my wife.
But this is one of the funniest books I've ever read, and will break your heart at the same time.
She wrote the first draft of this book in one month, for a workshop organized by Cynthia Leitich Smith.
It just poured out of her, and I knew it was something special when she'd talk about it with this little gleam in her eye.Fans of the Gemma books may not initially think this is for them, but I think the romance, the humor, the quirk that is Libba shines through here just as much as it did in those books.
(Isn't it against some social norm to say the f-word when you're talking about Disneyland?)Just as I was getting turned off with the too modern feel (references to WTF, 'rents, things like that) in a story that didn't seem to go anywhere, Cameron develops mad-cow disease and starts his mental decline.
I love how Bray uses bathroom pot talk to unveil an underlying theme in the book with Shroeder's cat (without looking in the box, one cannot know if the cat is dead or alive and therefore both possibilities exist).
There were also quite a few allusions to various individuals and objects, however, because of the book's intended age group I'm fairly certain that many teenagers will not understand the references and will be left scratching their heads in confusion.Another good aspect of Going Bovine was its central theme or the idea that Bray is trying to communicate throughout the story: living life to the fullest and not letting yourself simply exist.
Sadly, Cameron's little fantasy that was taking place inside his mind didn't enthrall me at all - by the middle of the book I was rapidly flipping the pages not because I couldn't wait to see what was happening, but because I wanted to get it over with.
me + this book = fail.I made it to page 93 and still wasn't feeling it.
Perhaps as an Aussie I just have a different sense of humour and found it too hard to relate?Once I started doing the skimming thing (I was trying to zoom ahead and see if I could stumble across the plot, somewhere, hidden in there...) I just decided to move on altogether.it is a unique book and very much loved ~ just not for me.On a side note: I am kind of proud of myself for giving up on books I'm not into lately.
Kind of liberating, allowing myself to ditch a book that doesn't match me :)
I found the writers mocking and limp satiric voice off-putting, not nearly so in the teenage protagonist, but still...satire needs to be leavened with wit, truth and sympathy, all of which are almost completely lacking in this book.
Here other targets are equally easy - and in fact she has neither a consistent philosophy or moral vision for the work so far - what she likes is lauded, what she dis-likes is condemned, hypocrisy is the main theme - and since hypocrisy is the ne plus ultra of modern sins - so what?
Okay, here's my review:It started out good although very reminiscent of a modern-day Holden Caulfield.Then it went really psychedelic.Then I finished it and found something else to read.Great concept - just kind of average execution.
I really wanted to love this, but honestly this was the weirdest book I've ever read, and I once read a book where the main character could listen to Justin Timberlake's music and literally transport herself into a realistic sex scene with him. So there's that. While there were a lot of things about this book that I really liked, I feel like I really missed the point unfortunately. The talking gnome was the best part though tbh. 10/10 would read an entire book about Baldr.
Going Bovine, Ms. Bray's 470+ page attempt to tackle the mysteries of life (or something), is not exactly "high art", but there's lots here to admire.
More than a few times I found myself rolling my eyes at its madhouse lunacy (evoking the feelings I got from  Ready Player One) yet throughout I couldn't help but marvel at the creativity on display.Cameron (our narrator) is well on the way to loserhood, often hanging out in the stoners bathroom at Calhoun High (in Texas) to forget that he's the polar opposite of his popular twin sister and the center of opprobrium to his parents.
“These are hard times. The world hurts. We live in fear and forget to walk with hope. But hope has not forgotten you. So ask it to dinner. It's probably hungry and would appreciate the invitation.”  One word to describe this book: CRUELIt’s also one of the most honest books I’ve ever read.ASK ME HOW I’M FEELING RIGHT NOW.I’m feeling everything all at once. I am bleeding light!Libba Bray, how could you! Why would you make such a masterpiece that’s both life-changing and horrifying? But, oh wel
It’s an adventure that will keep you looking for the meaning of life, serving you answers with the aid of a gnome, a dwarf, and a pink-haired, sweet-toothed angel.I didn’t expect all the things that this book contained.
It was so random, literally, but the author was able to stitch up those weird things together to create so much depth, leaving a big, black hole in my chest.I was hesitant at first to read this book because I usually don’t like stories that focus on characters that would most probably die due to their disease.
It was both hopeful and hopeless.In the end, it was all about appreciating the life each person was given.
This book starts out like any typical YA novel - our narrator is Cameron, a sixteen-year-old kid who is dealing with the typical family issues, going to a typical high school, and having typical sixteen-year-old problems and thoughts.
If Cameron can find Dr. X in time, he'll be cured.
(sorry I can't get into any more detail without spoiling the ending - read it the book, and then we'll talk about it.)"Maybe there's a heaven, like they say, a place where everything we've ever done is noted and recorded, weighed on the big karma scales.
I just hate clickin that little spoilers box, because if the rest of the world is like me, no one will read this review because of the energy it takes to open the page.
I loved this book.
But, of course, the real reason I loved this book was Balder.
I love that little guy.
But, given my four-star rating, this book wasn't completely perfect, and in order to explain the reason(s) why, I'll have to reveal parts of the ending.
Look away.Reasons why I didn't give this book five stars.1.
Wow!
What a wild ride!
Beautiful and sad.Cameron is leading a boring teenage life; doesn't really fit in and doesn't really seem to care.
He's mostly just going through the motions of life without really thinking about what matters to him or what his future holds.
The pieces of his memories, random thoughts from his life are scrambled with physics and philosophy, reality and alternate universes as he goes on a journey of self discovery.
He learns about love, sex, friendship and what it means to really live.Cameron's wonderfully sarcastic voice is funny and honest.
I really thought that I would love this book.
It sounded like it was going to be funny, and sweet, and warm, and all kinds of great.
But I think this is a rare case of just Too Much Shit.
I could only get to page 120-something before I started skimming to the end, which was, well, not to my liking.
It seems like the ending kind of negates all the crazy stuff that happens in the book.
What's the point, then, of having all the crazy in there?I don't know.
Too much, too soon, and for me, it got old real quick.AND THE TERM 'RENTS IS USED.
Ummm I don't fully know what to say about this book. It has such an interesting concept, but I don't know if lived up to its full potential. Cameron is such a quirky and fun MC... And really Going Bovine is just that as well, quirky and fun. Something just didn't click with me though.
And I agree with what Bray's husband said in his review; "this is one of the funniest books I've ever read, and will break your heart at the same time.
"The beginning starts off with Cameron in High School.
I think some people might find it odd that it's pretty easy to understand what's really going on early in the story.
Honestly, it just made the story all the more poignant knowing what was actually going on.I really enjoyed this book, especially Balder!
Going Bovine is one of those really cool books that you didn't know existed till it's in your hands and your madly flipping the pages to find out what's going on.
Now this is a book that has so much meaning, so much heart, so much soul, but with a twisted witty humor to entertain every page of this masterpiece.This book was a really trip and a half!
I didn't know where Cameron's hallucinations start and where his reality ended.
There were things I liked about this book.
The first 100 pages are pre-mad cow where the reader gets a taste of Cameron, his family, and school.
Sad because Mad Cow is fatalWhat I didn't like?
I slogged through this book for six weeks.
I thought Cameron would be an unreliable narrator in the sense that he would go on an adventure and because he had mad-cow disease the reader wouldn't know what was real and what was fake.
And I thought that was sad.
I wanted him to have a real adventure.
Going Bovine is a comedy jam-packed with philosophy; unfortunately, the comedy aspect is a total fail in my book.
But only if the humor works for you.
Whether you like this book is entirely dependent on whether you like the humor.
Yes, there are interesting moral themes, but they're buried under humor that made me cringe far more than laugh.
I suppose it's partially that while Beauty Queens is set up as an exaggerated fantasy world, Going Bovine is set in our world.
If you don't laugh, don't buy it, because you will not like the rest of the story.
So instead of using the "Less is more" technique, Bray succeeded in creating a character that thinks they are incredibly funny and witty, when in reality, was extremely irritating.I will admit that the concept of the book was original.
Now, I am giving this book 2.5 (I rounded it down) stars instead of the oh so dreaded 1 star because I enjoyed the first chapter, it had a few funny lines and Bray did bring up some philosophical points that enabled me to see where she wanted to take the book.
I really loved the writing in "Going Bovine"; Libba Bray can write very well.
I very much enjoyed the snarky dialogue but could have lived without the angst-y teenage BS.
Cameron is not a lovable kid; he's miserable and transmits his misery page after page.
His parents and sister are so unbelievably self-absorbed that I just could not connect with them or Cameron after wading through more than half of the book.
However, since I really liked the dialogue and the writing style, I will look for other books by Bray.
Her "Beauty Queens" looks like it might be very fun!
You'd think a book involving Disney World, talking garden gnomes, dwarfs, punk-rock/combat boot wearing Angels and a teenager with Mad-Cow disease would be a riot, right?!?!?!
Yeah, this is where I rolled my eyes and sighed, thinking "I know where this is going........."But, she convinces him to go on this quest and that he must take Gonzo (from his school), for this quest would offer Gonzo something un-nameable at its end.
#1 reason to read this book: the characters.
There are some very humorous people you meet along the way.It was funny and an exciting ride.
Love to the SCB's!!!!Additional sidenote: I think I'm going to start using the 'word' shithenge!!!
It was sarcastic, and creative, and unique - how many other books can you think of where someone has mad cow disease?
And he's a teenage boy, so the stuff he comes up with is half superhero battles, half random stuff from his life.
And he lives life to the fullest, and loves to the fullest.
Living in as much time as we've got, and loving while we do it.
It's an overpacked book, it's got a liberal bias, and the language and sex make it not for younger teens, or easily offended adults.
Like I said, great book.
Imagine Brian Lee O'Malley surrendering his masterpiece Scott Pilgrim series to Bob Dylan, Scott Adams and Jack Kerouac.
The constraints are Scott Pilgrim is now a stoner who has mad cow disease, Ramona is a punk rock angel who flies in and out of Scott's life, and Wallace is a hypochondriac dwarf human.
Take all that and multiply it by an infinite amount of quality; quality that could outshine the cosmos and the small world in which we so live.A refreshing depature for Bray, who commonly writes on matters most femme Victorian.
Rarely does a story come along that is so refreshing, so beautiful.

I would actually squirm at the idea of picking it back up, and because I very rarely like to read more than one book at a time, I lost almost an entire month of reading time trying to get through Going Bovine.It wasn't the writing.
It wasn't the main character or the teenage vernacular or video game references or philosophy/physics theorizing, because that shit is my life, yo.
this book had all the right ingredients for me, but the way they were mixed produced something very unsavory and worse: something predictable.It's not hard to guess that the entire thing is all in his head, and it didn't take me long.
Forget about nuance with 'Going Bovine.'The premise—sixteen-year-old slacker from severely dysfunctional family gets mad cow disease and goes on hallucinatory quest to find Dr. X and save the universe with hypochondriac midget, talking gnome lawn ornament, and riot-grrrl angel as sidekicks—should have warned me about what to expect.
She also leaves you in no doubt about how she feels about the crass, shallow, humorless, merciless, materialistic culture of consumerism in which she is marketing 'Going Bovine.'Bray is so consumed with setting ‘em up and knocking ‘em down that her protagonist, Cameron, who might be kind of sweet if he just poked his head out of the cloud of pot smoke that continually surrounds him, hardly seems to matter.
Who doesn’t love a good road trip?
(rhetorical) Who doesn’t love to read about a road trip?
More so when they involve hypochondriac dwarves, punk rock angels, fire giants, stellar trumpeters, time traveling vegan gurus, frenzied smoothie loving cultists who bowl, slutty cheerleaders, hermatic Inuit jam bands, wizards of reckoning, Viking yard gnomes and snow globe salesmen.
At sixteen he’s a typical self centered, under motivated teenage boy skimming cliff notes of Don Quixote and seeing holes open in the sky  and "leaves of fire grow and change, like something’s inside waiting to be born.
Cameron and Gonzo meet many eccentric folk in their travels.
Going Bovine, by Libba Bray, is truly different from what I've ever read before.
I’ve been a fan of Bray for a couple years and truly enjoyed reading the Gemma Doyle Trilogy.
However, when I was reading this book, it didn’t feel like it was written by Bray, which in my opinion is the markings of a talented author who has an exceptional ability to pen a novel in a different voice.Cameron Smith is a sixteen year old guy who simply wants to get through life with minimum effort coupled with zero expectations.
I truly enjoyed this book.
So maybe it’s more in the vein of this being her real self shining through.Cameron is one of your typical aloof, whiny, disillusioned teen, who somehow gets caught up in the nasty twists of fate and throughout the book we watch him evolve by the challenges his quest present him with.
I know it’s meant to bring about back story and give everyone a chance to shine and develop, but honestly, it was a chore to read through and I found myself bored more than anything.There were lots of allusions to some of the more popular media outlets (MTV, Star Wars, Myspace, and so on) in here and lots of swearing.
There is a gratuitous use of both the S- and F- words, hardly going one paragraph without one, or both.
By page 10, I read every foul word known to man, along with a scene of smoking pot at school.
It was entertaining and somewhat humorous, however, I just got the feeling Bray was trying a little too hard to write a good John Green novel.
There was a weak life lesson about learning to live, although this 16 year-old's version of "living" is losing one's virginity.
Cameron did mature greatly on his adventure and learned a lot about himself and the value of friendship.
