https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20178265-pillar-of-light
;)Pillar of Light is the first in a long and interesting series of historic novels that cover the origins of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, or Mormons, through the eyes of a fictional family.
However, as I mentioned, this is done in future novels in the series.Lund tells the tale of a fictional family whose lives are intertwined with Joseph Smith almost from the start.
But Lund does present the realistic doubts of his characters - doubts which I, on original read, shared - thinking how 'convenient' it was that no one else saw the angel or the plates, and many other points.
The movies absolutely SUCK compared to the books.
Such an AMAZING series!
I have a new, educated view on church history because of this series.
I love how you can see Joseph Smith as a real person.
I swear my testimony of him is SOOOOOO much stronger because of these books.
The author was brilliant about researching all of the facts and making sure everything is presented truthfully.
I think he was truly inspired.
The beginning of this first book was a little boring and took me awhile to get into; however, stick with it!
The rest of the books are so amazing!
If I had rated this series when I first read it as a teenager, I would have given all the books a very enthusiastic 5. I loved these books but I recently tried to read them again and was surprised by how poorly written they are. I got about 1/4 through the second one before I stopped re-reading. A wonderful and compelling story that maybe should have been told by a better writer. (Now don't every one hate me because I just said that. I know how people feel about these books and this author.)
AWESOME! My VERY favorite books to read, are LDS historical fiction! I love the way that Lund captures the surroundings and the scenery of the time, and draws you right into the story! The early saints of the church have always amazed me! Joseph Smith, his family, and many of the saints suffered so much, at the hands of those who mocked and terrorized them, but the work of the Lord continued to move forth! I am so grateful for my pioneer posterity, who have afforded me the blessings of the gospel, through their unquestionable faith, love and sacrifice!
I started reading the Work and the Glory series when I was pregnant with our first child. I got really sick, so I was pretty much bed-ridden. My husband brought home the series and I devoured them. They are a MUST read, as once you start, you can't put them down! I LOVE how the author writes of true historical events through the eyes and lives of an imaginary family. This way, you connect with the world at that time, and you find yourself yelling, laughing, or crying at the book. Lol!
But again, that just reflects the cultural understanding of LDS History in the 1990's.The only other thing I noticed from my study of church history was the fact that Joseph Smith told the Steed family about his First Vision, even though we have no evidence that he was open about telling that story at that point in time.
My slight worry is that we have a hard time subconsciously separating fact from fiction, and people may lock inaccurate details into their mind, only to be surprised later when the story didn't happen as they had assumed.That being said, the history in this book is really good.
Historical fiction is one of my favorite genres.
And I like Lund's writing style.
I thought it was bold of him to invent a family, an interesting one at that, and tell the story of the early days of The Church.
I thought his characters spoke insightfully and Mrs. Steed, especially, was an example of a woman of faith.
I highly recommend Gerald Lund's The Kingdom and the Crown series where he places a fictional family into the New Testament like he does with the Steeds in The Work and the Glory.
Vol 1 of 9 large volumes depicting the early beginnings of the Mormon faith as if you were there, compelling, inspiring, painful, lots of emotions as you go through the faith development through trials, persecution, families divided, etc.
Very powerful, highly recommended if you want to get a feel for the beginnings of a world faith from the humble faith of its founder....
You'll understand Joseph Smith, Mormons then and today and your heart will open wide for God's hand in the world and for the trials the development of faith and a religion require.
Holy cow! I loved this book! It is a historical fiction book about a family named the Steeds. In the book they hire Hyrum and Joseph Smith to help to clear their land, but because of rumors about gold bibles and angles, fire them from their job, to save face in the public. Still a few members of the steed family continue to keep in contact, and soon, begin to head on to their way to conversion. I was surprised how accurate this book is pertaining to the gospel! I really enjoyed this book, and hopefully others will too!
I have to say that I could only get 1/2 way through this. I love the idea of LDS church historical fiction, but I felt the characters weren't very real, and had no depth. The dialogue was the worst part. I'm ashamed every time I say it, but to be honest, I just couldn't get through these. Any thoughts?
I read this a long time ago too - like Laura. I totally agree with the idea that I was "there in the story with them while everything was happening". I remember I couldn't put it down either. I read some of the other ones and stayed up late to finish them.
I LOVED THIS SERIES!!!!! I also loved that I could pick up some Church history while being completely enthralled with the adorable family!!!!
I read this book in preparation for an upcoming trip back to New York to visit Palmyra and other church historical sites.
I read it for the history and enjoyed the story along the way.Also, I read it out loud to my 14-year-old son.
I wanted him to have a knowledge of Church history for our trip.
I figured reading it in novel form would be more interesting than just learning it from a purely historical perspective while visiting the sites.
He knew more about the stories and Church history than he would have otherwise and found the sites we visited more interesting because of that knowledge.
The first time I read this I felt like the first book dragged a little in several places.
Reading it for a second time I didn't feel that same sluggishness.
There is a lot of backstory and introducing characters that does and needs to take place in this first book to accurately set the scene for the rest of the series.
Understanding that has helped me to appreciate the attention the detail the author makes to provide historical backdrops to the underlying culture, emotions, and biases that existed in this era of history.I love how realistic the scenarios and descriptions feel.
Definitely something I would read with my mother or daughter.
I haven't read this series in 10 or 15 years. And now that I'm living in the Fingerlakes Region it is great to revisit these books and read about areas near where I live.
Regardless, after getting about a third of the way through, I stopped seeing them, so either I got so sucked in I stopped noticing them, or they were only in the first part.So what did I love about this book?
Well, first of all, I love learning about my church's history.
This book was well-researched and I loved it all.And then the characters.
Not only the real characters from the true church history, which I loved, but also the fictional characters.
I definitely recommend this book to especially anyone who likes historical fiction or is interested in the LDS church...but anyone, really.
i think my mom got this book for free when she bought something at Deseret book several years ago.
there were too many scenes like that throughout the book where Nathan or whoever was being briefed by another character on what was going on.
when Joseph tells Nathan about his vision, I felt like I was reading Joseph Smith history straight out of the pearl of great price or out of a seminary manual.
I know it's the first of a long series, but I think some things needed to be resolved a bit better to really end this one, especially with Joshua.
I'm realizing that I've previously been pretty good at saying this genre "isn't my thing," but wow.
Initially I had the intention of only reading the first in this 9-book series (because you have to admit that is quite a length).
The only thing I can really nit-pick is that the writing style seems a little awkward at times, but it's fitting enough because of the time period and circumstance it takes place in.
I can even say that this really encouraged my own reading of The Book of Mormon and instilled a greater appreciation for the persecution these poor people faced in spite of all the good they tried to bring.
I tried the series back when I was about 13 and lost interest half way through the second book.
I found that I had to commit to KEEP reading to maintain my interest into book 2.
The reason: despite the fact that the book discusses the church's history in detail, the events of the book are mixed with a fictional family storyline and characters, which may end up simply confusing a reader who may not recoginze names, places, and the difference between the fact and the fiction.
To those who are unfamiliar with the book series, you will find romance, heartbreak, suspense, church history, and the love of family.
and I'm SO glad that I realized that if my mom was enjoying them so much and recommending them to me, they must be worthwhile.This series, along with the Kent Family Chronicles (by John Jakes, about the United States), made me fall in love with historical fiction.
In this case, it was not only my knowledge of Church history events that was increased, but my understanding of those events.
Reading this series was such a wonderful way to increase both my knowledge of the Church and my testimony of the gospel.
I loved it. I couldn't put it down. Fictional characters placed in a true story that I already know and love. Why I didn't read this sooner, I do not know. Towards the end Gerald Lund sums it all up with one simple phrase--the fire of conversion. I don't think I've ever heard such a simple and accurate description of the drive and passion that conversion creates. I've already ordered the next three books in the series.
This book covers the time from before Joseph Smith received the plates through the first church meeting on April 6, 1830. Although there is probably less than 20% actually facts in this historical fiction, I really enjoyed it. The story made the facts stick better, and I learned a lot! I know much more now about what happened in Palmyra/Harmony/Fayette than I did before because the story strung it all together in a nice little package.
I can't remember how many times I've read this series, but I still love it every time! This is the first time with audiobook, which is great because there are 9 very hefty books in this series and I'd never have time to sit and read them again right now!I really love how it puts a more personal spin and an outsider's perspective on the events of the Restoration.
I read this book sooo long ago. But I really really enjoyed it when I did. It made me very happy and I couldn't put it down. I felt like I was there in the story with them while everything was happening. I guess I only gave it three stars because I no longer believe in the religion but actually it was an excellent book!
As a convert, I didn't "get" the whole pioneer thing... until I read this series of books. They changed my life from being a little resentful (because I did not have LDS pioneer heritage) to being extremely grateful for all the pioneers and what they went through to bring me the Gospel happiness that I have today. I think this should be a MUST read for any Latter Day Saint.
I agree with my fellow critics--the writing style is almost unbearable at some parts. But the plot is VERY creative, and I gained a greater testimony of Joseph Smith and the Book of Mormon, which was part of my purpose in reading it in the first place. I also LOVE the Mormon romance, I'm keeping an eye out for modern-day Nathan Steeds. ;)
Re-reading this series to get pumped up for the upcoming study of the Doctrine and Covenants for seminary this year.I know the writing can be hokey at times. I know that it can border on melodramatic. But I can't help it ... I LOVE this series of books. Five stars!
Really good. But I have to be honest, it took me awhile to get into it, sorry to say. But once I did it was great. I liked how Gerald Lund weaved the fictional Steeds into Church History. Vol 1 down, 8 more to go!
I LOVE THIS BOOK!! It's got everything! Drama, church history, romance, scriptures and morals and some suspense. I LOVE LOVE LOVE IT!! I think the coolest part of it is that I can learn about church history a long the way. All I can say is that the gospel is true!!!
Gerald Lund has written an amazing historial fiction series on the beginning days of the church. A must read for all.
