https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52024.Tales_of_the_Hasidim_Vols_1_2
When I read this book at age 17, it came close to making me want to convert to Judaism, enter a Yeshiva and study Torah all day. My Jew-fandom has since waned considerably, but this is still one of the most romantic, evocative, picturesque, insightful, and downright readable pieces of so-called "religious literature" I know of.
For gentiles, Hasidic Jews are often the most visible members of this religious and ethnic community, and this book is an extensive collection of the anecdotes, quips, and aphorisms they used to define themselves over the last few centuries.The Hasidic tradition is historically traced to the early 18th century, although like most mystic orders, it lays claim to a deeper spiritual ancestry.
Consider this lesson taught by a zaddik (Hasidic teacher) known as the Great Maggid: "The maggid once said to his disciples: 'I shall teach you the best way to say Torah.
Canto degli HassidimDovunque io vada Tu; Dovunque io sosti, Tu; solo Tu; ancora Tu; sempre Tu; cielo, Tu; terra, Tu; dovunque io mi giro e miro e contemplo, Tu, solo Tu, sempre Tu.
Tales of the Hasidim (v. 1-2 i) by Martin Buber (1991)
Martin Buber is an outstanding author, though not always one who is easy to follow. In this book, he retells tales of Hasidim, which are both magical and enlightening at the same time.
This book is a classic. It includes the sayings and acts of the early Hasidim. Scholars refer to it when they speak about the Hasidim. Buber's collection of tales is a joy to read and prompt us to think. For example: "Before his death, Rabbi Zusya said 'In the coming world, they will not ask me: 'Why were you not Moses?' They will ask me: 'Why were you not Zusya.'" Also, "Rabbi Uri said: 'David could compose the psalms, and what can I do? I can recite the psalms.'"
So much wisdom here. A book I will read again and again
Many of his works have been published, including his signature volume, “I and Thou.” This work was issued in two volumes: “Early Masters,” and “Later Masters.” What Buber has done was to collect the tales and legends of the Hasidim in a more or less chronological manner, starting with the founder of the sect, Israil Ben Eliezer, known as the Baal Shem Tov. The men who are the subject of these tales, the men who quicken, are the zaddikim, a term which is usually tanslated by “the righteous,” but which actually means “those who stood the test” or “the proven.” They are the leaders of the hasidic communities.
Given that I am not terribly familiar with Eastern European names and places (many of which don't even exist anymore because they were totally destroyed in the Holocaust or the pogroms before that), I even had to check sometimes to see if proper names were people, places, or organizations.
The stories themselves are full of wisdom, as one would expect from a bunch of teachers, and I am glad I made the effort to finish them.
I also did learn a lot about all the destroyed towns and villages in Poland, for example, and the irony and sadness there was not lost on me, given where I currently live.
A Master Scholar this work shares the exuberant and joyous celebration of the Hasidim expression of Judiasm. I learned a great deal I did not know about what lies or did lie at the core of this amazing group. Buber points out that personal celebration of the divine need not be dogmatic or follow "the norm."With people breaking into dance or song during worship... You may discover powerful and amazing Hebrew words like "Hitlahavut" or the burning ecstasy of God..Rich spiritual fare that anyone can appreciate!
Fascinating, challenging, delightful and profound stories told by the great lovers of G-d, collected by Buber, who himself qualifies as an embodiment of Chesed (lovingkindness) or a Hasid. I am never finished with this book. And it reappears in some very good company. Noteably, in "The Spirituality of Imperfection, Storytelling and the Search for Meaning, by Ernest Kurtz and Katherine Ketcham
I first read Buber's tales for a seminary course and and have returned to this book often over the years. It was an important part of my book, God in Our Relationships: Spirituality between People from the Teachings of Martin Buber. Some of the tales are a challnege to understand, but a good number are gems.
Lots of stories about the founding rabbis of Chassidim. Some as short as a few sentences, the longest are perhaps a page, well over 1,000 in total. Somewhat similar to the P'rkei Avot. Some leave more of an imprint than others. Some make you laugh (yes, there is humor in their anecdotes), others make you think.
couldn't actually finish it
I was hoping for tales full of meaning on how to live life. While I am sure there was some meaning there the tales seemed to be mostly biographical.
