https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3742.The_Long_Secret
How can anyone not love a book that starts out with a cashier with "mean eyes" receiving an anonymous note that reads "jesus hates you"?C'mon; seriously--
I enjoyed every bit of Harriet the Spy as a girl, and, while it made me anxious to read (because you knew she was going to get caught!), re-read it many times.
But The Long Secret is the book I continue to re-read as a grown woman.
Set on the shores of the wealthy New Yorkers' summer beach playgrounds (and back in the days before they were discreetly luxurious, before they became overrun with bourgeois ridiculousness), it is the perfect book to read in the waning weeks of summer.
In my head, I talk like Harriet the Spy!
Seriously...I wonder if my inner voice developed as a result of reading and re-reading and re-reading Harriet the Spy and The Long Secret as a child?!
Of course sometimes my inner voice is Harriet (WHAT'S WRONG WITH YOU???!!) and sometimes it is Beth Ellen (I don't know who I am and I want to hide).I loved Harriet the Spy and The Long Secret as a kid & have kept both on my bookshelf.
I still love Harriet, Beth Ellen, Janie, & Harriet's wise, apparently fun parents despite their 1960s style vagueness.
The under appreciated red headed step sister of Harriet the Spy. Just as good, and in many ways, better.
The Long Secret is Beth Ellen's coming of age story, and I must admit I enjoyed it more than Harriet the Spy. This book is a lot more twisted and complex than Harriet is, dealing with themes of religion, parenting, and friendship rarely tackled so bluntly in fiction, especially fiction for this age group.The book opens with a shocker -- a mean cashier find a note in her drawer that says JESUS HATES YOU.
To Fitzhugh's characters, the worst things a person can be are fat and poor.In the end, it turns out the person leaving the notes is (view spoiler)[Beth Ellen!
I loved Harriet the Spy, and was so excited to read this next one...but as a kid I found it much more melancholy...I think now that I look back on it, it's because the book actually does capture that melancholy feeling of puberty, of having to leave childhood behind, of being separated out from childhood by what is happening to your body. That is part of what is brilliant about the book. But much more evocative for girls, than boys, I'd think....
The author made it perfectly clear what the girls look like with her own interior illustrations.
I miss Sport; he was the only redeeming feature of the first book imo.
The only redeeming feature of this is the mystery.
It's worse than Catcher in the Rye, and Harriet screams and throws temper tantrums even more, and there's a lot of tears and even a lecture on menstruation, and there's not even a nod towards Lord of the Flies like there was in the first book.
I do like the few instances of Mouse showing spunk, though, so I guess I'll give it two stars instead of one.
What I love about this book is the touching sense of the desperate boredom of adolescence that Louise Fitzhugh evokes without ever directly addressing the issue. And Harriet M. Welsch has always been a hero to me.
Like 'Harriet the Spy' and 'Sport,' a groundbreaking work of children's literature.
Like Margaret, Harriet and her intermittent friend (and the real star of 'Secret') Beth Ann occupy a lofty socioeconomic caste.
This allows her to connect religion to class, and to introduce the delightful Jessie Mae and her decidedly odd family, and to bring in race (and religion) with another strong character, The Preacher.
It's hard not to read in autobiography in Fitzhugh's depiction of Sport's mother in that eponymous work and Beth Ann's mother in 'Secret.' It's not a flattering picture.
On to 'Nobody's Family is Going to Change!' Highly recommended.
I loved it but I have so many questions.The main story in this book is really about Harriet's friend Beth Ellen.
She is so quiet and mousy but she goes through a lot during the course of this book.
At one point, I almost fell out of my chair laughing, and by the end, I doubted that I had understood anything.
I was happy for Beth Ellen, but like Harriet, I didn't understand her either.There were some other characters and things that happened in the book that I would give anything to ask Fitzhugh about why she included them.
Though it was definitely a quick one, I have to say that it did not meet my expectations, and overall it honestly didn't feel like it fit after the first book.For starters, there wasn't any follow-up to the events of the first book.
However, I did like reading about Beth Ellen--I'd wondered about her as a character in the first book, so I was happy to get to hear more about her and her life.The Long Secret is more geared towards younger middle-grade readers, so maybe my age is playing a part in my criticism of the book.
Lucy Longstocking review http://www.wcl.govt.nz/blogs/kids/ind...Lots of people have read Harriet the Spy and loved it, but not so many know about the two follow up books.
Harriet returns in The Long Secret, which is a wonderful summer holiday story.
The Long Secret is two books in one really: on one hand it is a riveting mystery that involves a funny holiday township, but on the other hand it is a story about feeling left out and friendship and growing up and stuff.
She doesn’t write about kids the way adults like to see kids: boring, stupid and polite – she writes about kids the way kids are: interesting, thoughtful and really cool.
I remember reading this book as a kid and not being too nuts about it, but after rereading it, I just love it.
I think this book may just be too much for all but the most sophisticated of kid readers.
Who of them are going to see Agatha Plummer as a total cougar, and Wallace ("HUP!" love that), as a money grubbing gigolo.
I did like though, that she made Harriet's parents, who were very unsympathetic characters in the first book, really caring and loving and wise.
Love Beth Ellen, and her new found independence.
Harriet was a bit over the top, always shouting and sort of obnoxious, though.
When I first read this, I was disappointed by the new angle on Harriet. I'd built her up as rather a hero and had overlooked her more grating aspects. Too, I think the book made me uncomfortable because though Harriet impressed me, Beth Ellen is probably more who I am, too.Age brings perspective. This really was quite the book.
This book, from the Harriet the Spy author with a focus on one of her friends, FLOORED me. I absolutely love it.
I liked this and would have given it the three-star rating to indicate as much but there is a short stout brown & white spotted dog in here named Moo-Moo and she gets a star of her own.
The Long Secret is a follow-up book to the classic children's novel Harriet the Spy, and while Harriet is a prominent main character, the main story is essentially her friend Beth Ellen's coming of age story.
I think this book holds some special meaning for its intended audience, which is young girls 11 to 12 years old, but also would be interesting for an adult to read as well, considering the glimpse into the time period and the weird mixed messages of the book.
If Jessie Mae's family didn't come off almost like Louise Fitzhugh were making fun of them this might be a little more effective in the Long Secret, but I don't think most young readers would pick up on that.
(view spoiler)[Learning that Beth Ellen sent the notes would, as in the existing book, raise her level of respect for her, since it proves that Beth Ellen is a lot like Harriet: observant, interested in people, mean.
(hide spoiler)]Incidentally, a total Beth Ellen POV would have covered up the weirdness of having Harriet suddenly be friends with someone who, in Harriet the Spy, was a very minor character.
It took me inordinately long to read this book considering it's length, but there was just so much to unpack. AND I was surprised by the ending.
Oh my heart! I just loved this.
Apparently intended to be a more serious book than 'Harriet,' 'The Long Secret' takes up some more sensitive themes (menstruation, parental neglect, religious belief) with mixed results.
Controversial at the time, the conversation about menstruation (between two twelve year old girls who have experienced it, and Harriet, who hasn't) is sensitive and laugh out loud funny.
The attempt to make sense of the problem of religious "fanaticism" is more unconvincing, although Fitzhugh lets her nonreligious characters talk and act with a charming transparency.
Harriet's attempt to talk to her affluent, nonpracticing parents about their religious beliefs is perfectly pitched.
Set out in The Hamptons on Long Island (where the wealthy New Yorkers summer), Harriet and two school friends spend the summer by the sea.
Told from multiple points of view, with Beth Ellen's character and story are really developed, and we and Harriet realize how quick Harriet was to jump to conclusions about this mousy friend in the first book.
She enlists her friend Beth Ellen to reluctantly help her.
The themes are layered, authentic and kid-friendly - about feeling left out, friendship, imperfect adults and growing up.Fitzhugh writes about the complexity, messyness and often unkindness of human nature.
I can't believe it's possible that I never read the follow-up to Harriet the Spy, one of my all-time favorite books.
It is pretty fantastic, but not quite as good as Harriet the Spy (which I also reread last weekend--man, is that book good).
A highlight: 12-year-old mad scientist Janie's outrage that Beth Ellen's grandmother has told her that menstruation is caused by "rocks coming out": "That just goes to show you," said Janie, looking like a stuffy teacher, "That people should learn to live with fact!
It's never as bad as the fantasies they make up." And then she offers a simple, straightforward explanation--much to the relief of Beth Ellen, who has been pretty freaked out about the rock situation.
I think that I may have enjoyed this book if I had read it after reading Harriet the Spy as a child.
Reading it now I felt distant from the characters, as if I've lost the part of me that understood what it was like to be a kid.
I think what is more likely is how different Harriet and Beth Ellen's lives are from mine.
As a kid I might have connected with them despite the different time period and experiences, but the whole time I read it I felt disconnected.
"That's it, thought Beth Ellen: Never be afraid to wear glasses."Can't remember when I first read this, but I know I was originally put off by the somewhat negative depiction of Harriet; I felt disloyal. But now I can appreciate Fitzhugh's realism. I will always adore bossy and screechy Harriet, but that doesn't mean that I can't cheer on Beth Ellen, too. "The mice shall inherit the earth, it's said."Click below for a wise and impressive review (and more fabulous Fitzhugh quotes):http://jezebel.com/362472/the-long-se...
Love reading children's fiction, especially nice to read children's books in the summer when something light to read at the beach is just what you want.
FItzhugh is amazing!
I like the editions with author's original illustrations.
Story of 2 rich girls from NYC who go to the same school but are not close during the school year.
Their families summer in the same beach town and so in the summers the girls spend lots of time together.
SOme crazy grown-ups who dont act very grown up and a mystery to solve.
Harriet's favorite thing to do is solve mysteries.
Just love this book!
I read this book once as a child and hated it. After re-reading a series of essays about Harriet the Spy, I decided to give this one another chance. So glad I did. It is incredibly sophisticated for a children's book. I still love the character of Harriet and she remains my favourite part of the story. But there is a lot here about families, religion and relationships. The scene where they talk about menstruation was priceless. The book is actually quite witty.Recommended.
“Shy people are angry people”  I read this book many years ago and really didn't really like. I can't remember why now... but that's besides the point. I, suprisingly, enjoyed this more than Harriet the Spy. I liked Beth Ellen as a narrator. I enjoyed feeling her emotions throughout the book. The mystery in this book had me hooked and the ending was great.
One of my all time favorite books from my childhood. More than Harriet Welsch, I identified with Beth Ellen Hansen. Harriet felt like the child I wanted to be, while Beth Ellen is the child that I was. Interestingly I have never read Harriet the Spy and one day soon I may pick it up, but The Long Secret is a brilliant book standing on its own.
Doesn't have the same distinctive voice as Harriet the Spy, but it was fun to revisit these characters, and to see Harriet out of her depth. The scene with everyone in the Shark's Tooth Inn was hilarious.
