https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18302455-the-circle
Not caring about her makes it difficult to identify with her, which (a) means Mae's naivete gives this would-be cautionary tale an abundantly obvious direction and (b) makes it unlikely people will see Mae's story as their own being lived out through (i) Facebook's ever-changing privacy policies, (ii) their own choice in how to respond to Google's growing ubiquity/power and (iii) the self-induced pressures of cultivating an active "life" online.
A Review of Dave Eggers' The Circle by GoogleTransparency is...Surveillance is...Society is...Kayaking is...Cults are...Everything in moderation, including...Cynicism is...Can I...On a more serious note, yes, this is The Fountainhead for Big Data.
If Sonny Mehta had called up Dave Eggers and offered him 100,000 shares of Facebook to write a The Fountainhead for Big Data it couldn't have turned out much differently from this book.
I think most of the people leaving one-star ratings and all of those leaving five-star ratings of this book would nod, Mae-like, yes.And creating that kind of consensus, in an age and about mechanisms that Google can't even decide whether to deem GOOD, BAD, or NECESSARY, is so valuable.
Liking this review will send a zing direct to Dave Eggers, who will enter the names of all those who liked at once into the McSweeney’s Assimilation Programme (MAP), an underground writing movement devoted to the extinction of all non-clear-cut, accessible, socially conscious, lyrical and harmlessly amusing prose.
His constant riffing on the banalities of social networks and the inherent evil lurking below is first-rate, raising oodles of smiles and outright titters, taking excellent turns to the sinister and horror-film eerie within a sometimes obvious but zingy plot.
The idea of a dystopian novel centered around the perils of the Internet (or the company/companies that control it) is a really appealing and relevant theme.
The big problem with The Circle is that the main character is completely flat.
I didn’t understand her, her connections with other characters or her motivations.
In a digital, dynamic world, Mae (the main character) is static.
Do you understand this, Mae?
The characters are one-dimensional in a bad way.
I ended the book, I tossed my Kindle to the side and that was that.
This book wasn’t it.
Now there's no need to put down your new Kindle Paperwhite to jump on Goodreads and share it with your friends...
Starting today, Goodreads is inside your books on the new Kindle Paperwhite.
If this idea sounds like a nightmare, you definitely wouldn't like the Circle, but you might like The Circle.If you'll permit me another digression, do you remember when Jonathan Franzen had the nerve to say he didn't like Twitter and the internet fairly exploded in its collective anger?
A middle ground is all I'm asking for, but these are all-or-nothing times we've been living in.Similarly, The Circle is an all-or-nothing kind of book.
Mae (view spoiler)[choosing the Circle over Ty (hide spoiler)] was the perfect outcome.
Any sort of (view spoiler)['happy ending' (hide spoiler)] would have lost the book entirely to lameness.
Social media at its extreme.--Part II, where Mae is (view spoiler)[made transparent (hide spoiler)], raises the stakes nicely, and increases the tension.
(In fact, this is potentially the first time the stakes are raised in the book.)"Frowns":--The Kalden 'twist' was very obvious from early on, and that cringe-worthy scene underground gave it away entirely.
I did not believe for a second that Mercer would actually (view spoiler)[drive his car off a cliff (hide spoiler)].
The best people had made the best systems and the best systems had reaped funds, unlimited funds, that made possible this, the best place to work.”Did you ever want to live in a world where everything is perfect?
But you better don’t do any sport to improve your health, because we expect you to sit in front of your 6 monitors all of the time.
Now every student all over the world will know how good she/he is and it will be easy to improve your rank because now you finally know where you stand.
Mae finally FINALLY stops being manipulated by everyone around her and makes her own decision and reveals what her personality is (so far all we know of her is what other people foist upon her): her personality is the sort that wants everyone else to tell her what her personality is.W O W.Okay so the other reason this book got two stars from is that in spite of everything it's an intriguing plot and the action was intense (and infuriating) enough that I kept going through all 500 pages.
Noooooooooo!
This book is creepy as hell!
People in the world watching your every move!
They can suck it.
The only social media I do is Goodreads and google.
This book makes you want to run away from even that!
I still have a Facebook account but don't go there because I despise it.
I don't do stupid twitter or Snapchat.
Haven't done Instagram and not sure if I ever will.
I should just go off the grid like the lovely Charlie Hunnam 😊💕Anyway, whatever.
I wouldn't doubt they are already putting something like this book into place.
Maybe?
But over time, as you learn more about the company, its history and its projects, and even see the situations its employees are in, you think these scenarios are not too far off from what we experience today - how far are we really from this future?Along with this extremely interesting premise are occasional twists and turns in the plot, and although there are some predictable points in the story, there were a lot of questions in my mind that kept me flipping to the next page, looking for an answer.
"...what if we all behaved as if we were being watched? It would lead to a more moral way of life. Who would do something unethical or immoral or illegal if they were being watched?" A significant majority of our planet's residents has access to the Web. This has been the way for decades now. We were provided with a great instrument in the everlasting search for knowledge. Everything is there for us to grasp. By pushing a button, a key in the keyboard, by touching a screen, knowledge that would
What happens when everyone's lives become transparent and everyone can interfere to a citizen's life and choices in the four corners of the world?Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to The Circle, the Orwellian future that isn't so distant anymore....
In Mae's world though, there is no such thing.
I think that Eggers tried too hard to create a 1984 version for the new millennium so the effort was too obvious and the result of lower quality since it cannot be compared to Orwell's masterpiece.
The mob's lust for blood, Mae's naivety that turns into malice create a kind of darkness worthy of a true dystopian universe.The characters won't be up for any awards.
(pass on knowledge).In "The Circle" --their was a line which made me think about traditional religion: Here's the line: (taken OUT of context to the 'whole' of the story) "I understand that we're obligated, as humans, to share what we see and know.
We collectively own accumulated knowledge of the world." [I laughed to myself when I read that line --then said to myself --sounds like being Jewish]....lolBack to This Book: (things to think about)What are the costs for 'staying connected'?
The 'Circlers' (people who work at "The Circle), are an inspiration when they Open themselves UP -- willing to share their life to further collective knowledge.
It was like I could feel my own slow inundation with The Circle, which, of course, made the implications as they unfolded a little horrifying, the thought of this utterly realistic and culturally possible phenomenon actually happening.
Embedded in the fact that the Google-like company mostly employed millennials—and that we millennials are known for our social media voraciousness and oversharing—it comes off as a totally plausible alter-universe that Mae has stumbled upon when she arrives, both to herself and to the reader.
If you’re not—especially if you’d classify yourself a Luddite—read it and weep at this completely conceivable, totally creepy, new-age possibility.The Circle was comical in its realistic nature, life-like in the way that the interactions between characters were played out.
Dave Eggers is having a Klout moment: He’s just published a dystopian satire about social media called “The Circle.” On Sunday, the New York Times Magazine touted an excerpt on its cover.
Though initially proud of their daughter, they provide a powerful counterpoint to her enthusiasm for the Circle’s enervating distractions, its presumption that we’re just “a matrix of preferences.” Before this apotheosis of consumer culture, they stand aghast at the way privacy and intimacy have been replaced by a synthetic community of “friends.”Given how self-evident these satiric points are, though, it’s a shame Eggers can’t trust his readers more.
as zeitgeisty as they come and just as flawed. eggers' prose is a bit too ordinary, his characters seem just smart or clueless enough to conform to plot machinations, and the masses appear as neo-marxist caricatures of 'the masses' with only a select few white-hat-wearing good guys able to catch a glimpse outside the ol' cave. the riches contained within (and they are aplenty) deserve a more thorough and complete treatment. very entertaining but gonna round down to a 3.
A possible present day dystopian novel involving a young girl, Mae, as the protagonist who starts in a dead end job, is divorced, has two parents, one of which is not well, and is also separated from her very best friend Annie.
When Mae is hired at the 'Circle' with the help of her friend Annie, life-changing experiences lead her into a different world, a world we could all envision ourselves in someday.My thoughts, the book was long for me, over 400 pages, drawn out, with a very unexpected ending.
I enjoyed the book.
If I had to come up with a one-sentence summary for this book, it would be this: if you've ever read one of those thinkpieces written by a smug baby boomer explaining why millinials are the worst and thought, man, I wish I had five hundred pages of this, then The Circle is for you!May Holland is a recent college graduate living sometime in the near future, when a company called the Circle has created a monopoly on all technology.
Though some sites were resistant at first, and free-internet advocates shouted about the right to be anonymous online, the TruYou wave was tidal and crushed all meaninful opposition.
And comment boards became civil overnight all because people’s real names were disclosed thus insinuating that the only thing encouraging people to state their opinions on the Internet was their anonymity?
Each time Mae’s ex-boyfriend Mercer makes an appearance the opportunity is taken to preach his opinions about her job and what companies like ‘The Circle’ are doing to this world.
I am not sure I have ever read a book while saying, "Nope .
This is not me saying that it was bad, just that every action, every suggestion, every idea presented made me squirm.This book is less story and more about social media and technology taking over our lives.
The main character's actions were very unbelievable and her progression through the course of the story, far fetched.
Instead, I am just kind of, "Meh, some food for though, but my brain is still hungry"The book is worth checking out, especially if you have an interest in cyber-thrillers or how social media is taking over our world.
The writing is basic so it won't take long to read the book.
That's basically the good stuff.Now, I don't know if the author did it on purpose or just can't do any better, but the writing is anything but appealing, poetic or emotional in any way.
It's shallow and dull and when the writing is this weak, so is the whole book.
Way to write women, Dave!
I only read this because Emma Watson is starring in the screen adaption but I'm not sure I can stand to see her play such a boring and flat character.
It's getting 2 stars simply for the concept alone and because I did enjoy thinking about these things but I just kept waiting for anything to actually happen.
Repeat.Mae completely lacks any personality.
SHE doesn't even know why she does things, so how can we?If you want to read about the rise of a dystopia with a complete absence of any resistance, this may be the book for you.
The Circle just lacked any sort of tension.Lastly, there was a great deal of fat phobia in the book.
Because we all know fat people can't get laid unless a person is literally possessed.
At first it was still a bit normal for Mae to succumb to such demands, but as the novel progressed, the company showed its true colors.
I know it's important for them to socialize and know more about each other, but the way they did it was just wrong and I would've left the company right away.The Circle at first seemed like it was just concerned that Mae wasn't being socially active with her workmates, but it slowly turned into insanity.
Mae was one stupid piece of transparent poop who should never be allowed to live in real life.
We see all the great stuff that this new omnipresent social media/accounting has brought to us, with mini cameras shareable as Facebook apps, fantastic data-sharing apps, and, of course, 1984.
This book takes it all the way, giving us the step by step progression of great ideas and then knocks on our door, meeting us with a huge shark face and a bunch of shark poop trailing behind him, telling us how much he loved our neighbors.It's not impossible.
I cannot begin to mention the number of times I stopped and thought 'wow, this could happen right now and no one would bat an eyelash.' In fact, a chase near the end of the book brought to mind the Reddit manhunt for the Boston bombers.
This is a book that will cause you to pause repeatedly while reading it, pondering if the tale it tells isn't so far removed from the world we're living in right now, and that maybe - just maybe - we're just as doomed.
The author did a very good job at addressing those.What was probably creeping me out the most about Mae and the other characters just like her was their unyielding way of thinking that they are ENTITLED to know everything about everyone.(view spoiler)[I mean, not only did Mae force Mercer off that bridge and simply couldn't stop even if asked a million times but in the end she even felt cheated that she couldn't know what her comatose friend Annie was dreaming about!
Having read the reviews by critics stumbling over each other to praise how "edgy" and "prophetic" this book was, I borrowed it from the library (if I'd paid the ridiculous $17 for this book, I probably would have sat down and cried).The only thing good about this book is David Eggers writing ability.
It gets so ridiculous that halfway through it reads like a goofy book your Grandpa wrote about Interwebs Boogeyman.I also don't understand the people calling this a thriller.
It certainly builds up like one, hinting at an uprising of people against the Circle.
It builds and builds with increasingly stupid scenarios.Then it ends.
Filled to the brim with fledgling discussions of privacy, freedom, fairness, democracy, and control, the novel has in its DNA all the previous great works who have posed the questions “What is privacy and is it good?” and “What is democracy and is it good?” and “What is personal freedom and is it good?”This is a long but easy read because it brings us a glimpse of a world many of us have only heard about and yet cannot help but be intensely curious about: the campuses of the technology giants like Google or Facebook.
26%Great premise, a social media dystopian satire – Smile.
88%Asking serious questions about who we are with social media as an intrusive and perhaps inescapable force of synthetic nature – Smile 89%Some scenes reminded me of the 1999 film Office Space where the Flinger’s manager is talking to Jennifer Anniston about pieces of flair.
90%Seriously, over a hundred pages too damn long, stop typing – Frown 42%Privacy is Theft – clear and recognizable references to and influence by such dystopian classics as 1984, Fahrenheit 451 and We, makes me like this and those books even more – Smile.
50%Overall good post-modern book, socially relevant and entertaining – Smile 81%
His long (500 page) yet breezy reimagination of a Google-esque company controlling every aspect of our lives provided probably the most fun I had reading fiction this year (2013).
Watch as protagonist Mae gets hired at "The Circle", quickly works her way up the ranks, and loses her mind trying to amass as many "smiles" and 100s as possible while her company systematically strips away the populace's right to privacy.
Fun, and really creepy, as long as you don't spend too much time thinking about its plausibility.(Don't forget to click the "like" button below...my very soul depends on it)........(What?
that "like", please.)
In fact, "SECRETS ARE LIES, SHARING IS CARING, PRIVACY IS THEFT." While it is interesting, and does seem to mimic some of the warnings of Brave New World, 1984, Neuromancer and even elements of Ghostwritten.
It is at once more superficial, more clean, more predictable than I would have liked.Don't get me wrong, I think Eggers is a genius.
I guess the problem (for me) is that Dave Eggers is almost the exact opposite of Mark Twain.
I think Eggers (with his McSweeney's success, his amazing ability to adapt, his tendency to swim with the currents, to be infinitely relevant, completely likable) is able to do almost everything ...
