https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/363973.The_Little_Old_Lady_Who_Was_Not_Afraid_of_Anything
This is a slightly watered down version of a story which I've heard or read before -- an old woman is followed home by one animated garment after another.
In the tale I'm familiar with they gradually assemble into a full, presumably ghostly, figure; here they just sort of hang out together and wiggle.
In the illustrations they are clearly disparate.
Maybe this was intended to make the story less scary.
Possibly a nice Halloween read for less bold children who need a not-too-tense tale with an unfazed protagonist.
The illustrations are pleasant and colorful, although not particularly memorable.
There is something to be said about being in touch with our inner child. We grow up, we experience the world, we toughen up, we become adults. Along the way, we outgrow our fears or we suppress them, but once in awhile, that fear we think is gone rears it ugly head and manifests in ways that scare us still. On those days, wouldn’t it be fun if we dug out our copy of The Little Old Lady Who Was Not Afraid of Anything, and be reminded that  Boo!  Goes both ways. In this classic tale, a little old
On those days, wouldn’t it be fun if we dug out our copy of The Little Old Lady Who Was Not Afraid of Anything, and be reminded that 
In this classic tale, a little old lady resolved not to be afraid of anything.
At once brave and terror-stricken, but never afraid, the little old lady confronted the moon lit visage and tell it to “F___ off”.
A fear we cannot vanquish entirely, but with resolution, can be kept at bay if we find within ourselves our own Little-Old-Lady-Who-Is-Not-Afraid-Of-Anything.
Life’s lessons must be instilled from young!
I reread this because I’d never written a review for it, even though I used to read it frequently with and to kids, because it’s one of 6 books for the October (theme: Autumn/Halloween) Picture Books Club at the Children's Books group.I was expecting that this would be a book I’d downgrade when reading it on my own, without enthusiastic kids hanging on every word and/or participating.But, it’s a delightful story.
I love its cumulative nature, the sound effects, and the clever conclusion.
There’s so much to look at, and they reflect both the humorous and frightening aspects of the story.
“The Little Old Lady Who Was Not Afraid of Anything” is a Halloween children’s book by Linda Williams along with illustrations by Megan Lloyd and it is about how a brave old lady goes out of her cottage to get some herbs, spices, nuts and seeds when she started to walk home, she meets a spooky set of clothes that follow her along the way!
“The Little Old Lady Who Was Not Afraid of Anything” may have a brave protagonist and cute illustrations, but the story might not be creative enough for some children.Even though I gave this book a rating of three stars, there were some elements that I liked about the book.
At first, one is tempted to attest Megan’s tremendously attractive illustrations to this book’s spark but Linda’s storytelling thrills me just as much.A nature woman like me, gathers herbs on foot at a distance from home.
The impossibility of these items giving chase to the woman has a built-in terror but of course, readers know their worst won’t become too scary.
These goofy items manage to be one-hundred percent startling, on a night walk that she has to finish but she is bravely determined to shoo them away.
Likely, Linda’s easy words are built to teach vocabulary simultaneously.
I would have LOVED this story when I was little!!! All the sounds and the cumulative nature of the tale... it'd make a great read-aloud. (Plus, my favorite story when I was little was Dr. Seuss' tale of "The Pale Green Pants With Nobody Inside Them" and this features a pair of pants with nobody inside them!!!) I also like how the Little Old Lady solves her "problem" of the frightening things following her in a thoughtful, kindhearted and proactive way. A great Halloween read!
My favorite Halloween book (not that it's about Halloween per se). Genuinely creepy, but won't freak out 3-year-olds, and a perfect ending. Sadly, this year T didn't want me to read it to him "because I can read it to myself". Still, it will be a good place holder while we head to RI for the weekend for some suburban trick-or-treating!
My all-time favorite Halloween picture book! I read it every year for my Halloween storytime. Even older kids will participate with the CLOMP, CLOMP, CLAP, CLAP, etc. After reading the story, I like to go back to the beginning and show the picture of the old lady's yard. The kids love seeing what is in her neighbor's yard and hanging on the clothes line.
My two daughters LOVE this book! There were plenty of places for me to make noises and voices which engage them and help them to interact with the story which is ideal for a 2.5 and 4 year old who is just starting to read herself. We have read it several times each day and I am sure will continue through the fall. My daughters will be anticipating taking it out again next year.
This book is a great Halloween read for younger listeners because it is cumulative, super-involved (you get a whole body workout when you read this to your kids- you have to shake, shimmy and clap on every page!) and it sends a message that "scary" things aren't scary when you face them bravely. A must-read for ages 3-8.
A little old lady leaves her cottage for an afternoon's walk in the forest, in this appealing folktale-style story, finding herself far from home as darkness begins to fall.
Finally, when confronted with the entire "ensemble," the little old lady has a bright idea...I enjoyed The Little Old Lady Who Not Afraid of Anything, and think it would make an excellent Halloween read-aloud.
The ever-expanding refrain, with its sound-words and repetition,will allow young listeners and readers to participate in the story, clomp-clomping and wiggle-wiggling along.
- are appealing, capturing the humor and well as the spookiness of the story.
All in all, a solid Halloween tale!
One dark and windy autumn night a brave little old lady was walking back to her house when she heard a clomping noise behind her.
She discovers an old pair of shoes has been following her, "Clomp, clomp." She turns to them and says, "I'm not afraid of you, " but she walks a little faster.
She turns to each one and loudly declares she is not afraid but each time she steps up her pace to get back to her home little faster.
I love how the suspense builds up on each page and invites the reader to accompany her on her frightening walk home.
But one autumn night, while walking in the woods, the little old lady heard .
And the little old lady who was not afraid of anything had the scare of her life!I gave this story 5 stars!This is a must read every year around Halloween time for me and my family.
As a child I loved the vivid illustrations, and I've continued to find more reasons to adore the book each time I pick it up.
It's a great example that no matter how brave you are, there will be times you're not the bravest, and that's okay!
This was another Children's Picture Book Club read http://www.goodreads.com/topic/group_...I liked The Little Old Lady Who Was Not Afraid of Anything.
My daughter just found out what pumpkins are last week so she noticed the giant pumpkin on the cover.
I had fun reading it aloud to her.
It had simple illustrations and was an easy read so she could relate to the book well.
It was fun going through the motions with her as I read CLOMP, CLOMP, WIGGLE, WIGGLE, SHAKE, SHAKE, ETC.
This book is aimed at 3-7 year olds.
My daughter enjoyed it at 16 months.
This is a cute book to read in the fall around Halloween. It is easy to get children interacting because their are multiple characters in the book. Children can practice manipulating words orally while the book is read. I can create a lesson where children count the objects in the picture and label each one. This will help the children with writing out numbers and recognizing pictures from the book. Children could also practice sequencing the order of the objects to make up the scarecrow. Many great lessons can be implemented from this book!
A fun read for my 5 yr old as well as my preschoolers, this book had something for everyone.
Being a big fan of Halloween myself, I love anything that's even remotely scary or has pumpkins and this had both.
Although one of my 3 yr olds covered his face when the scary pumpkin face showed up, he still asked to read it even though we had read it the day before.
In fact it was he that requested it, knowing he was scared of it.
So, not overly scary but it might be a consideration if you have sensitive kids.
A little old lady is walking in the woods and suddenly followed by shoes, shirts, pants and a pumpkin. This is story that would work well for a younger child who likes to act out the parts of a story. There is plenty of clomping, wiggling, shaking, clapping and nodding with one BOO at the end. Nice rhymes for early readers who can easily pick up the repetitive pieces and join in.
Such an adorable tiny story of Halloween!!
Personal Response:I read The Little Old Lady Who Was Not Scared of Anything to Mrs.Steidman's 1st and 2nd grade class for Halloween Safety.
Plot Summary:A brave old lady walks through the forest and comes across group's of clothes.
In the morning when she wakes up, she finds a very scary scarecrow.Characterization:The little old lady showed bravery and compassion in this story.
The little old lady did not give up on herself thoughts because when the clothing came back she braved up her fears and gave them an idea.
Text-to- Teaching ConnectionThe Little Old Lady Who Was Not Afraid of Anything is a story about an old lady walking through the woods during the fall.
With each encounter, the little old lady increases her pace until she safely arrives home.
I would use this book to teach my students about sequencing the events of a story.
As a whole group activity we would review and discuss the story by arranging flashcards to retell the story.
Station two's task is to retell the story events by completing a cut and paste worksheet.
Station three's task would be to rewrite and illustrate the ending of the story.
Charming illustrations, I like the style though I do think they are a wee bit forgettable.
Story is constructed well to be fun for 1-3 year olds.
It is billed for 4-8, but I very much think this book is too simple for that age group.
I think that the repetition of the sounds would be particularly fun and stimulating for younger audiences (at least from my experience) I wanted to read a children's picture book for this Halloween because I do not normally read books in this category.
Halloween seemed like a perfect fit for me, since it is my favorite holiday.
Love, love, love this book! This will be our third fall reading it a billion times. Incorporates sound with the story. Kids will love to clap, stomp and shake as you read. It is scary in a silly way!Great for Halloween and read-alouds
I appreciate this book, as I think it was the first book a librarian ever read aloud to me, complete with goofy facial expressions and scary sound effects on Halloween. She has since passed on. Fond memories.
This lady lives on the edge of the forest and goes for a walk in the forest. On her walk she is followed by 2 shoes that go Clomp, Clomp!, pants that go Wiggle, Wiggle! a shirt that went Shake, Shake! 2 gloves that go Clap, Clap! and one hat that goes Nod, Nod! and one scary pumpkin head that goes Boo, Boo! and she is not afraid of anything! They come to her door and ...Fun story to read with kids, they can act out the actions and get silly!
This is the best not-so-spooky Halloween book for the littles! Such a fun story to read. and reread. Over and over lol. Nothing is as fun to a toddler as repetitive actions and clapping noises.
My almost 3 yr old grandson loves this story! He remembers all the sounds the garments etc. make so I leave that reading up to him.
Text to the world connection : Related to the theme of the month Halloween fall. Cute little story beautiful colors well illustrated. Great for math concepts. Repeating vocabulary and language. This can be also added too dramatic play as props and allow the students to repeat the story.
The first book that my daughter ever laughed at! She loved the Boo Boo part! Hehe
"Not scary enough"?
"Not creative enough"?
"Not the best version of this kind of story"?
Maybe so, fellow Goodreads reviewers.
But for teachers or librarians looking for a semi-spooky story for a crowd of varying ages and creep tolerance levels, this is about the best pick I've found.
I did have one first-grader who I know is easily spooked that had to sit close to her mom for the story, but all the kids enjoyed the book and liked stomping, wiggling, shaking, clapping, nodding, and BOO-ing along with the ghostly figure.
Now this is a seasonal hit.
My kids loved it, I loved it, and I'll be buying a copy for my classroom.
It wasn't scary - only slightly creepy.
It had repeating lines, which kids love no matter their age.
It has a strong rhythm, which almost always pushes a book into the Can't Miss category.
Classroom Connections - fun read aloud for Halloween time - great intro for discussions about fear and courage - surprise ending lesson for writer's workshop - onomatopoeia - perfect for creating rhythm and movements to go along with a class performance; either dance or reader's theater
