https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149405.The_Eagle_of_the_Ninth
Classic historical fictionAt the age of eight, I read Eagle of the Ninth, my first encounter with historical fiction.
Forty-four years later, re-reading this classic is no less exciting for me.
It is certainly tinged with historic fact.This book had an amazing positive effect on my life in that it gave me an enormous appetite for books, not just historical fiction.
After all, when they were teaching me current affairs, I was guided not to believe everything that the papers say.
Why couldn't the historical fiction of which I was so fond be nearer to the truth than their history text books?Eagle of the Ninth is a fantastic read.
When I read The Shield Ring, my first Sutcliff book, a few weeks ago, I had the exact same experience.
He was a wonderful hero, and I loved following his quest to restore his father's lost Eagle.
He was rather a dear, although crusty--and it's not hard to see where Marcus comes by his Stiff Cold Mask ;-) - Guern the Hunter .
Now, I'm gonna be honest here, I didn't love them quite as much as Sutcliff's descriptions in The Shield Ring, but they were still excellent quality.
It rang true, and nothing seemed out of sync or out of period.Overall, it did surprise me how good this book was.
I don't think I've enjoyed a YA novel more since Suzanne Collins' The Hunger Games (there are no similarities between the two books except that both are well written and hard to put down).Although written primarily for a YA audience back in the mid-1950's, Sutcliff doesn't hesitate to challenge her readers with terms and phrases they might not understand (heck, who am I kidding, it was a challenge for 
The third is with Cottia, a British girl being (unwillingly) raised as a Roman by the family next door.When he has sufficiently recovered, Marcus, accompanied only by Esca, decides to go north, beyond the wall of Britannia, and follow the trail of the Ninth Legion into Celtic lands unknown.
Another battle towards the end of the book has minimal bloodshed.Sex: Marcus nicknames Cottia a "little vixen." This is a reference to her red hair and ferocity, but he probably also calls her that because he finds her rather, well...Language: Nothing.Substance Abuse: Everybody drinks wine and beer because the water back then was a sanitation hazard.Nightmare Fuel: The Celtic Feast of New Spears features some rituals that could be rather frightening to younger kids, including men prancing about wearing dead animals (the emblems of their clans) on their heads.
I loved this book dearly as a child, and it has lost none of its magic now. Beautifully-written, discreetly poetic without a single word out of place, it's a thrilling adventure, an excellently-researched piece of historical fiction and a fabulous depiction of friendship all in one. Read it at any age, and marvel at the pacing; the gradual build-up, the terrific characterization, the breathless race to the final climax. Sutcliff brings Roman Britain to life as no-one else has ever done; and her novel is touching, absorbing and quietly haunting until long after the final page has been turned.
As much as I loved the book the first time, I experienced a far deeper connection with it during my re-read, and I deeply identified with the main character in an unexpected way I couldn't have anticipated or shared in before.
That second read came at age 17, just after the onset of a life-altering chronic illness that shattered my big dreams, destroyed my hopes of the future, and left me fighting my way through each day.
Raised to five stars!RTC.
That's a lot to say for a book that I adored from the age of eight until about fourteen, reread at seventeen-ish, and then haven't read for a few years...
"Little did he know how important this piece of information was going to become" sort of thing.But Marcus and Esca are still the bright, real characters I remember.
I always loved the parts that show the bond between them, the friendship, that transcends the initial fact of Esca's slavery.
In fact, reading it again, it kind of amazed me how strong their friendship was -- realistic, yes, and with boundaries, but strong.
Before I picked this book up, I had gathered two points from, respectively, the title and the edges of assorted flailings by my friends: (1) that it was about baseball or something, and (2) that it was about a couple of boys who love each other very, very, very much and who have talks about their innermost feelings and so on.Turns out, not about baseball!
“He had seen these rolling woods in their winter bareness dapple like a partridge’s breast, he had seen the first outbreaking of the blackthorn foam, and now the full green flame of spring was running through the forest and the wild cherry trees stood like lit candles along the woodland ways.” The whole thing feels like that: brightly colored, bold strokes, lovely from the right distance.
What makes it outstanding, aside from Sutcliff's remarkable ability to make you feel like you're there with Marcus and his friend Esca, a British slave (again, as with everything in this book, so much more than that), is how wonderful it is to see the friendship that builds between Marcus and Esca, two young men who ought to be enemies.
But the ending is deeply satisfying, with (view spoiler)[Marcus realizing he loves Britain, and Esca becoming a Roman citizen in recognition of his efforts in retrieving the Eagle (hide spoiler)], and I'm certain I will read this book again.
Amazing book! I loved Esca best but Marcus was amazing and realistic, also. Their relationship is definitely a fictional favorite for me. Also: CUB. What a great addition! I did see (view spoiler)[ Cottia and Marcus (hide spoiler)] coming and while it felt a smidge rushed to the end, it was nice.
Alas, historians are notoriously unromantic (at least modern ones) and demand annoying things like evidence, and the latest evidence would seem to indicate that the Ninth was destroyed in either Judaea or Parthia in the 130s and not reconstituted.If I had read The Eagle of the Ninth when I was 13 years old and still blinded by romantic depictions of the Roman Empire (fostered by films watched in history class and TV movies like Masada), I would have really liked this book and given it four stars.
Ten years or so ago I was sitting in the waiting area for the Indiana branch of Immigration and Citizenship.
He introduced himself in our local way and began to tell the story of his son, one Private Jones who was stationed in Baghdad and one who had fallen in love with a local and was soon to be married.
"But, its Iraq," the man stated, loud enough for everyone in the waiting area to hear.
I first became aware of the author and work years ago when Will Self stated that he was reading her trilogy to his children.
If you're looking for a book to offer your boys or a great family read-aloud, here you go!And as a side note, I don't remember having ever so seamlessly gone from the first book in a series to the second with so little time in between.
Mentions a woman that committed suicide.*Note: I listened to the audio version of this book so this Cleanliness Report is not as thoroughly detailed as other reports are.
I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too.
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
re-read 2018 This book is definitely a gem in the Roman historical genre, which doesn't really exist all that much. That being said, I enjoyed this greatly the first 5 times I read it. This time through felt a bit slow as I wanted to hit the highlights going through, so it did feel like it lagged a bit at times. This was only because I've read it so many times! :D If you haven't read this yet, I definitely recommend it!
Honestly, there is no clean line through this story, no overarching plot or theme – it wanders without a larger sense of purpose.Yet at the same time, this book imparts a wonderfully detailed sense of what life was like in Roman times, on both sides of Hadrian’s Wall.
I can easily understand why this book is called a classic of historical fiction, because it is wonderful to explore this living past Sutcliff has created, and to watch Marcus slowly come to think of Britain as home.Unfortunately the beautiful detail isn’t enough to overcome the meandering nature of the plot.
The Eagle of the Ninth by Rosemary SutcliffIn Rosemary Sutcliff's books the history of Britain comes alive through sensuous descriptions of luscious forests and ragged mountains, and characters so deeply imagined that linger in your mind after the book has ended, like childhood friends untouched by time and the drudgery of life.Her books are not popcorn historical fiction novels with anachronistic characters dressed in the costumes of the time but keeping the ideas and sensibilities of their XX/XXI century authors.
This first one is about a young Roman legionnaire named Marcus Flavius Aquila who leads a unit to Britain, gets injured to the point where he can no longer participate and thus must find his own way forward...without the Roman army that has been his home for so long.
Not coincidentally, that Legion had been commanded by Marcus' own father.The story is not the typical Roman legion war fighting kind of novel but rather a story about a young man who must find a new place in the world for himself.
And if so, there are seven more novels that feature Marcus' descendants in Roman Britain and beyond.
A good adventure story set in Britain under the Roman domination.
Sutcliff is a very talented storyteller and paints a vivid landscape of Roman forts and Celtic moors.
There is war, and danger, and high risk, but there is also friendship, honor, duty, romance and hope.
The heroes are not blessed with superpowers or incredible talent at weapons of war, nor are they interested in bad-ass posturing to see who can **** farther than the other.
I am tempted to try more from Rosemary Sutcliff

Some years earlier, sometime in 117 AD, the Ninth Hispana Legion, led by his father had marched north from its base at Eburacum (York) into the mists of Northern Britain to deal with a rising among the Caledonian tribes and was never heard of again – their Eagle Standard was also lost.Marcus then sets out to discover the truth about his father’s disappearance, what had happened to the Legion and if possible, to recover the Eagle, and thus to redeem his father’s honour.
Up to this day, no one knows what happened to the 4,000-man legion.Mary Sutcliff provides her theory in The Eagle of the Ninth when Marcus Flavius Aquila, whose father was the senior centurion of the first cohort of the 9th, takes command of a military fort on Britain's frontier.
Later Flavius learns that a tribe beyond Hadrian's wall in Caledonia might have the 9th Legion's eagle standard.
The rest of the novel describes their adventures.I loved this novel and it's the first one I've read by Sutcliff.
No-one knows what really happened to the Ninth Legion, the Hispana.
A battered eagle, shorn of is wings is in the museum at Reading, having been found during the excavations of Silchester, formerly known as Calleva Atrebatum.Out of these two facts, Rosemary Sutcliff has written a wonderfully resonant story about hard choices, bravery and the ways in which that bravery is rewarded.
Because he lost that father at the age of 8, when, in 117 AD, the father marched north with the Ninth Legion and was never heard of again.
Marcus wants to know what happened to his father.
Roman soldier Marcus Aquila and his British servant Esca are an interesting pair, and I liked seeing the contrast between their two cultures.
The storyline moved forward really well during their journey, and I thought Marcus's plans were all very clever and it was fun to see how they played out.I know I read a few of Sutcliffe's books back in junior high, I'm sure this wasn't one of them, though I can't remember which ones now.
I am looking forward to reading more!PS- I really enjoyed the movie.
Have always loved early Britain stories.
This is my first Sutcliff even though my boy has loved this series forever.
Really decent YA writer.
The three in this series "Eagle of the Ninth," "The Silver Branch," and "The Lantern Bearers," are very well done.
#1 is almost pre-Christianity, #2 Rome is crumbling, #3 Rome is vanquished, Hengest is invading Britain, Arthur is rising.
Of course anything touching Arthur's legend is my favorite so I liked #3 best.
Good for boy and girl audiences.
Good for most any age.
Hardly any romance to speak of, which is nice for younger audiences.
i'm not a really a historical fan or know much about britian's or rome's history, and all this made me put aside reading this book, till a friend's 10000th time praises for this book made me pick it up. this only reminded me that i should be only reading what hallie tells me to. a most lovely story, with interesting people in it and do please read anything hallie recommend! :)
Marcus purchases the slave, called Esca, for his manservant, and the moment of shared understanding in the arena becomes the basis of a most unorthodox friendship.When rumors of the Ninth's lost Eagle standard begin to circulate, Marcus determines that as the ill-fated commander's son, the Eagle is his to retrieve.
While there is no definitive proof connecting one with the other, they formed the genesis of the idea for Marcus and Esca's adventure, and the resulting novel is a well-researched, fascinating thesis rolled in an adventure yarn that posits a plausible solution to one of history's great mysteries.Sutcliff's realization of life in Roman Britain is superbly realized.
(I have by now entirely stopped snickering at the fact that his name is Aquila, but I think this used to strike me as funny.)This is a children's book of the sort that I don't think anyone writes anymore -- it is a quest story, but an occasionally slow, very richly described one.
I appreciate that Marcus, a disabled character, gets to be the hero and go on a quest.If there is a flaw, I think it's that Sutcliff doesn't really know what to do with her minor characters, especially her minor female characters.
So you understand why I was dying to read this book as soon as possible.
Discharged because of a battle wound, a Roman officer Marcus moves in with his uncle and saves a gladiator from death.
It's all great and wholesome, the battle was awful and dramatic, so I assumed that I would like the adventure aspect more than a hypothetical pairing.
But then he buys the gladiator Esca as a body slave to help with his injury.
i love marcus and esca and cottia :')
