https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2413860.Angel_Pavement
The novel was published in 1930, and the setting is Depression-era London and a firm called Twigg & Dersingham, whose premises (“in what was once a four-storey dwelling house where some merchant-alderman lived off his East India dividends”) are sandwiched between the Kwick-Work Razor Blade Company and the London and Counties Supply Stores at Number 8 Angel Pavement.
I worked in a number of offices in my teenage years, and while that was in the 1950s rather than the time of this novel, and it was Sheffield rather than London, those places I knew, and the people in them, were not really much different from those depicted by Priestley in ‘Angel Pavement’.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
This is an unusual book with sections in it that were like long passages in the Pinter/Beckett/Ionesco school of thought. Ponderous descriptions but I loved the detail, many wouldn't, unused to the absurd. Good story, a con man totally messes up an odd little veneer business staffed by hopeless subordinates.
Ο αγαπημένος Τζον Μπόιντον Πρίστλει που μας είναι γνωστός από τα καταπληκτικά θεατρικά του έργα ( Εμείς και ο χρόνος, ο Επιθεωρητής έρχεται κλπ) μας δίνει εδώ ένα πολύ δυνατό μυθιστόρημα.
Βρισκόμαστε στο Λονδίνο του μεσοπολέμου, επικρατεί ανεργία και φτώχεια, η Ευρώπη δεν έχει συνέλεθει ακόμα από τον Πρώτο Παγκόσμιο Πόλεμο ( που τότε τον ονόμαζαν ακόμα Μεγάλο Πόλεμο, πού να φανταζόντουσαν τι άλλο τους περίμενε!).
Και τότε έρχεται από το πουθενά ο μαγικός τυχοδιώκτης, ο κομπιναδόρος που επιπλέει πάντα, για να τους προτείνει συνεργασία.
The whole time I was reading the book, I was thinking how suitable it is for mini series. As it turns out, there are 2 of them - one from the 50s and one from the 60s (unfortunately nowhere to be found for downloading). So, if you're hooked on British period dramas, looking not so much for good dramatic plot, but for a fine depiction of everyday life and the subtle irony of presenting the characters the British are so good at, this one might be for you - London in the 30s, but in the form of a book.
What she actually said was harmless enough but her tone of voice, her expression, her smile, her glance, all these suggested that her words had some devilish inner meaning...Not long after the structure is laid out, as the characters become more familiar, we're treated to comedic turns in the story, where perhaps the reader is led to know more about what will happen than the people involved.
We begin by midbook to get the feeling that things may not work out for the best, as they do in the movies.
A tale of common life experience, of fantasies and fears coming true.I appreciated this book far more the second time I read it because I saw more in it.
At first, I felt that Priestley was giving way too much information about his characters, but by the end of the book it had dawned on me that he was writing about fundamental lessons in life that we can all relate to and, in order to do that, he needed to give the reader a thorough look into the hearts and minds of his characters.
Again, through the actions of Golspie, his fears come true.
A good book, rather sad overall. A study of the employees in a small London office, all leading lives of "quiet desperation". In comes a rather charismatic and piratical figure, and his daughter and everyone's life is affected. It's pretty obvious from the beginning that things will not end well, but the characters are all well drawn.
Reminded me of Norman Collins' London Belongs To Me. Both could be described as soap operas but none the worse for that. A must read for anyone interested in London and London working life that has mostly disappeared for ever.
Truly one of the great "London" books of 20th Century. Not very cheerful, I'm afraid, but well written. Take your time with this one
Dickensian in scope, Hardy-esque in plot.
Another great London novel, sits up there with Norman Collins, Patrick Hamilton, Monica Dickens, Somerset Maugham, etc.
I ended up wondering what happened to Turgis, Mr Smeeth, Miss Matfield et all after the book finished.Basically the plot centres round the small firm of Twigg and Dursingham located in a London backstreet.
He employs Mr Smeeth, a cautious accounts manager, perpetually worrying about the future; Turgis the lonely teenage clerk, living in lodgings and dreaming of romance and Miss Matfield the frustrated, intelligent secretary, who lives in a women's shared residential house.
And the cramped sitting room of the Smeeths, full of cheap ornaments proudly displayed, also just like my Gran.Having a teenage son myself who is surly and spotty and girl mad I felt particularly for the lonely Turgis.
My first J.B.Priestley, an author I've been meaning to try for years; this reading was partly inspired by going to see a production of 'When we are married' at the West Yorkshire Playhouse a month or so past.
I really felt that as an honorary Yorkshire woman, now living close to Bradford, I must read Priestley.
I wanted to read 'The Good Companions', but 'Angel Pavement' was on the library shelves in this Great Northern Books paperback edition.I suppose Priestley has gone out of fashion; this new edition seems timely, then.
I was quite gripped and read quickly, although the outcome is not a surprise.
Let me quote a fellow reviewer: a long book about nothing. We met a couple of people in London in 1930s, we spend a couple of weeks with them, some story lines has started, and most of them dropped in mid-air. However, I cannot say that I did not enjoy the book. What I liked the most about the author - how he could show accents with spelling. Very amusing!
A bit darker and, as a result, not as enjoyable a read as Good Companions or Festival, but certainly more realistic. As usual for Priestley, the characters are wonderfully developed, although in this case he shows more weaknesses and faults than quirks. A slice-of-life of Londoners in the late-1920s.
I read this a long time ago, so won't rate it. After one of my favorite books ever, The Good Companions, it didn't quite hold up, but I have a feeling I might get a lot more out of it now, so I may give it reread sometime soon.
A long book about nothing, but it's really very good.The day to day lives of a group of Londoners working in an office for a firm that sells veneers that has hit hard times. A man comes into the office offering to supply them with cheaper veneers could this be the salvation of the company?
ав
Dated, purple, lovely.
