https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/568236.A_Distant_Mirror
As she explains in her early pages, she set herself to follow one particular character as he lived during a period in history when the actors were on the count of hundreds, and thereby keep one's focus and walk through the maze and the turmoil without getting lost.Enguerrand de Coucy VII was a member of the French nobility at a time when ‘French’ could also mean ‘English’.
Enguerrand in fact acted as both French and English as he had acquired double allegiance: to his own King and to the King and father of his wife.
Since Ms. Tuchman is a first-rate writer, on still another level, the book is a compelling, personalized account of individual men and women living through these turbulent, disastrous times, especially one Enguerrand de Coucy V11 (1340-1397), a high-ranking noble, heralded as “the most experienced and skillful of all the knights of France”.
By way of example, here is one memorable happening where the French Queen gave a masquerade to celebrate the wedding of a twice widowed lady-in-waiting: six young noblemen, including the King who recently recovered from a bout of madness, disguised themselves as wood savages and entered the masked ball making lewd gestures and howling like wolves as they paraded and capered in the middle of the revelers.
A vivid and detailed look into a lost world.
A GR friend said that he was disappointed in this book because it did not offer the narrow focus and sleek thematic underpinnings of Tuchman's The March of Folly.
It should be noted, however, that Folly is a very different kind of book.
A Distant Mirror is a survey of a lost world.
Reading A Distant Mirror is like being in thrall to an endless film loop of natural disasters, pitiless murders, and roadside accidents.
If there is only one book you read on the Middle Ages it might be this one.
My grandmother had this book on her shelf for years and I read it as a kid and loved it.
I visited many of the sites since living here in Paris that Tuchman mentions in her book and loved having the context to understand why they were standing...or not.
An incredibly vibrant and realistic view of this critical and bloody century in Europe.By the way, I have been up to see the castle of Chaucy which is the epicenter of this book and, unfortunately, there is precious little to see - the chateau was demolished during the World Wars of the 20th C.
I read Barbara Tuchman’s A Distant Mirror: The Calamitous 14th Century not for its subject matter, but because Tuchman wrote it.
Tuchman’s focus on the 14th Century began with an interest in the Black Death of 1348-1350, which she states killed an estimated one-third of the people “living between India and Iceland.” As she explains in the Forward, Tuchman initially wanted to study the effects of such a disaster on society.
Critics have called her out on her anachronisms, but I don’t think it’s anachronistic to recognize that even though these people are distant, they were still human, and in that way, closer to us than we realize.
There were more than a few idiots, but no heroes, no chivalrous knights, just ugly opportunists laying waste to their own countryside, killing for no reason, looting, and burning towns to the ground.In fact, death in every form (famine, war, disease) stalked the 14th century and death personified as a pale horseman or as a hawk-like old hag, was a recurrent image in the art and literature of the era.Mercenary BandsEngland and France were not always fighting.
For a while now, I've had a boyish fascination with the Middle Ages, intensified by a couple of years spent studying Old English in grad school, and nursed along since then with occasional books about the Black Death, the Crusades, castle building, and whatever else seemed interesting to me.
But Barbara Tuchman, the author of this book, is in a league entirely of her own.Maybe that's because she wasn't a traditional medievalist.
Unlike some authors of ambitiously long and complicated books, Tuchman doesn't peter out near the end and leave the reader feeling cheated.
The century marked the decline of the Roman Catholic Church’s power, the feudal system and the myth of the chivalrous knight.The plague killed 1/3rd of the people of Europe between 1347 and 1350.
In 1303 King Philip IV of France in conjunction with the anti-papist Italian army captured Pope Boniface VIII, who not surprisingly, soon was dead.
Popes ruled from Avignon from 1307 to 1377 with ever increasing domination by the French kings, which was deeply resented outside of France.
War between England and France was another key conflict of the fourteenth century.
Through him we study medieval life and the Hundred Years’ War. After his death Tuchman quickly summarizes the end of the Hundred Years' War. So while the Edwardian Era War and the Caroline War are depicted in complete detail as well as related battles with the Bretons, battles in Italy, in Spain, in Belgium and finally in Bulgaria (contemporary country names used), only a quick summary of the Lancastrian War is given.
They provide a general overview of how people behaved and thought during the medieval era, while the remainder of the book covers more closely the battles.
The Hundred Years War, the Papal Schism, the Black Death, peasant uprisings, the death of chivalry, crusades, assassinations, tournaments, all these things and more Tuchman explores through an examination of the life of one man, Enguerrand de Coucy.
Tuchman really relishes describing feasts, fetes and tournaments in incredible detail, and portrays the major and minor figures of the era with a blend of real ambiguity, grittiness and the occasional larger-than-life anecdote that any reader of A Song of Ice and Fire will find familiar.
A comprehensive who's who and what's what of 14th century Europe.
I know much more English history so it was instructive to see the Black Prince and John of Gaunt and the Peasant Rebellion from the other side and in the context of what was going on on the continent.The focus on Coucy was not like Tuchman's focus on Stillwell in her book on World War II in China.
Coucy is, in many ways, a rack--a hat rack not a torture device-- to hang Tuchman's understanding of the 14th century on.
She told me she had read this one three times – now, if that isn’t high praise it is hard to know what is.Then there is Richard who although enjoyed this said that it didn’t feel as historically relevant to him as Tuckman’s WW1 books.So, what to do?
So, for a long time I thought this one lacked something like that – a central idea to drive the book forward.
Now, as a way of stopping plague this is probably not the most obvious or the most effective treatment, and I guess we all know without reading this book that it actually helped to spread the disease.
Beutifully written and very detailed book. Recommended to all people genuinely interested in the history of the period. It is not about knights in gleaming armour rescuing and seducing defenseless ladies, but about a potent and credible mixture of well researched historical truth and good story-telling. A classic. If you want to get a good understanding of 14 Century Europe this is a book for you (it gets a little long and dense at times, but overall it is a rewarding read).
Tuchman’s method is to use an actual French nobleman, Enguerrand de Coucy VII, as an exemplar whom she then follows from 1340-1397 as he lives out the times and events that she wants to explore.Tuchman does provide a few notable quotations.
Another is, “Of all mankind’s ideas, the equating of sex with sin has left the greatest train of trouble.” This idea was derived largely from St. Augustine who wrote out of the context of his own spiritual wrestlings.Tuchman postulates that the Black Death may have been the beginning of modern man in that it led to questioning of the established order, of the religious and social paradigms that seemed to have failed humanity during its ravishing of the population, raising the possibility of individual thought and understanding and thus opening the way to diversity of interpretation and opinion based on individual conscience.The style of exposition in this book is extraordinarily turgid, and that is being generous.
As a small child, I used to ponder with interest the scary cover art, which shows the arrival of the Forth Horseman of the Apocalypse ("and his name was death" for you Johnny Cash fans).
Among other things, this book, along with "Rats, Lice & History," crystalized my interest in the history of disease and epidemiology (you are right to ask - is there anything I'm not interested in?).
If you're ever stuck home with a bad flu, I recommend reading the chapter on the Black Death - it really puts things in perspective.
I have been a Tuchman fan for years but put off reading this book because it concerned a period of history of which I was not particularly interested.
Wrong!!!
Chock full of details, it fills in all the details of a bloody, unenlightened time in history where war for no justifiable reason was the norm, crusades against distant lands were the epitome of a knight's duty, and the Black Death was decimating half the world's population.As usual, the author has done extensive research and although it is often difficult to keep all the players straight, it offers a fascinating panoply of a time when "knighthood was in flower".

While I mostly enjoyed reading Tuchman's comprehensive book on the 14th Century, it was TMI.
I read this for the enjoyment of knowing more about the century when the Black Plague decimated the world.
I read this for fun, I thought, however it was about twice as long and twice the information as I wanted and/or needed.
Unfortunately for me it got tiresome and although I did learn a lot such as the size of a royal baby blanket, 15 feet X 30 feet, I think much of the information was simply useless for my purpose.
Now I'm wondering whatever will I do with that royal baby blanket information?
(Or maybe Tuchman is wrong, hmmm?)We pretty much all know what the Middle Ages was all about, we all have at least heard tell of the Hundred Years' War or the Black Death or the Papal Schism.
(Like "Oh, so the War didn't start because of a wedgie!")The additional bonus of reading Tuchman is that she wasn't a dry writer.
She did what seems like a thousand years' worth of research and managed to make just about every word of it absolutely fascinating.
Yes, my eyes glazed over a time or two; I was in this read primarily to know more about the society, culture, and day-to-day living of folks back in the Late Middle Ages.
So far it's a bit like reading a sci-fi account of a far-away alien planet and it's weird but familiar culture!
My reading of various history books(this one, "Citizens" by Simon Schama(about the Fr. Rev.), and "The Glory and the Dream"(about the middle of the American 20th century) all feature the same thing.
When oh when will the rest of the people in this country get that?????Getting towards the end as we reach the 1380's of this action-packed and seemingly chaotic century.
I have to take a bit of a different tact on this book than many other reviewers.
Let me start off by saying that I liked the book.
I'm not going to say I really liked it because I found it a bit dry.
And when I say dry, I mean I was losing my place, or forgetting what I'd just read.
One of the reasons for this is that there are so many people, so many place names, and so many goings-on.
I should read it again some day, and probably will.
The Sire de Coucy's success during the century was in-part because he only used chivalry as a last resort in all matters.
Here is a clip of Tuchman being interviewed on the book and her some of her other works: https://archive.org/details/openmind_...My reason for reading this (and my plan for reading more European history) is a rather simple one.
The research 5/5Reading experience 3/5Can a researcher or historian be too thorough? I would have loved to read the summary of this one.I focused solely on the sociological, psychological, cultural aspects and not on the historic trivia as in which duke fought with that earl or which prince married that daughter. So I didn't care enough to totally adore this amazing work.
And also and most importantly, the change in the Papal and Nobel rationalizations toward rights and prerogatives.
It intrigued me that nation systems or loyalty oaths could change that much in just 80 or 100 years.
It wasn't just art, science, politico that changed- it was more.
But reading this entire picture of overview for the 14th Century- you can see why nearly all the old restraints were breaking down.
So much so that not even the horrific punishments of the 15th Century "disloyal" could buck the trend toward a different worldview.
This is the second time I have 'read' this on audio.
The first time was on tape, so, a long time ago.I had to downgrade my opinion of this book on a second reading.
Based on an attempt to read The Proud Tower, I realized that Barbara Tuchman could barely grasp the inner motives of 19th C.
people, which made it less likely that she really understood 14th C.
people.
Thank God she didn't spell that out explicitly, or else I would have given the book two stars, despite some impressive narration and assemblage of facts.I have no complaints about the narration of Nadia May.
The Calamitous 14th Century: a time of war, class struggle, taxation, endless litigation, ravaging disease, religious intolerance, Christian versus Moslem, feckless leaders, plenty of lust, torture, self-interest -- 'a distant mirror' indeed. We are not so different. Look back or just look around.And that is the point, I think, of this wonderful work of history and literature. Tuchman's wit and erudition are on full display.Sometimes the reading went very slow, but only because it all seemed so important. This is History of the highest rank.
I remember noticing this book as a kid, before I knew the meaning of the word “calamitous.” It was sitting on one of my Dad’s bookshelves, and I found myself intrigued by the title, mentally picturing an ornate enchanted mirror that reflected images from far off centuries.
The thread that unifies this work is the life of Enguerrand de Coucy VII, a nobleman who played a central role in the political events of the day.
The mirror may not have been enchanted, but I am glad to have finally peered in to see reflections of this far off century.
I still remember reading this book when it first was published.
It is another readable and accessible history by that great non-academic historian Barbara Tuchman.
I first encountered her work when I read The Proud Tower so my expectations were high.
In this ambitious book she explores the tragedy, political intrigue and occasional dark comedy that surround the infestation of the Black Plague in medieval Europe.
The Black Death chapter is fascinating, and in her introduction Tuchman makes some interesting comparisons between medieval and latter-day behavior.
History truly 'comes alive' with Tuchman's telling and that says it all.
A monumental work that encompasses more than 100 years of some of the most tumultuous period of European history.
A brutal time of endless wars, widespread anarchy and brigandage triggered by the Black Plague and a deep schism in the Catholic Church which resulted in two warring Popes vying for control.
She writes perceptively and engagingly, at times debunking the romance of chivalry and excoriating the vast corruption at the very heights of the church and nobility.
For any reader interested in this most interesting time of European history this book is a wonderful place to start.
