https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9654.Fear_of_Flying
I swear if I have to take another page of this rich, uppity bitch's incessant whinings and first world problems, I'll rip all my hair out.Isadora Wing sooooo envies the fact that German streets are cleaner than those in the US.
Her equally rich, married and annoying sisters have procreated and produced cute little blue-eyed 'Aryan' cherubs who make the remaining population of American kids look like they belong in the third world.
Oh the horror of white kids looking like kids in the third world!
Oh how will she compete in the 'whose-baby-is-more-Aryan-looking' contest when she doesn't even want to use her womb?
i guess you're some kind of erratic genius type who's insecure about his sexuality and his ability to satisfy a woman, which is eventually going to destroy you?mannyrayner: well, thanks for the first bit, but i hope you're not entirelyiw69: no wait, i think you're really more like my second husband.
you'll break my heart, but after i've dried my tears i'll put you and your cock in my next best-selling novel and you'll be immortalmannyrayner: i guess i like some parts of the plan but we'll have to change a few detailsiw69: why?mannyrayner: to start with, i'm sitting in an airport lobby.
I decided to choose 6 (for the beginning) of the ones waiting on my shelves for a long time or that I do not know if I would like, read 50 pages and decide if I want to continue with them or send them away.
I bought this novel almost 10 years ago because, well, I was afraid of flying and I thought I might resonate with the character.
I can’t even count how many times I read cunt/pussy and fuck in the first 50 pages.
I am not a prude but I felt the language was not sexy at all and it did not warm me to the characters.
Her husband isn't especially warm to her, nor is he incredibly supportive of her career (like Jong, of course, she's a writer).While on a trip in Vienna, Isadora fantasizes about being with another man, and this book is more or less about those fantasies - what they mean in the context of her marriage, her entire love life, what they mean for women in general.It's true, the writing isn't exactly high brow.
She isn't perfect, she knows it, and she learns to accept it - another conundrum plenty of people face in one way or another - and I'd say that's true of both the character and the author.As for how it fits in modern times, I do think it's still applicable.
Summer, 1972A top editor at a publishing firm in NYC pokes his head into a break room and says to a young, male intern who is pouring coffee, “Hey, kid, come into my office for a minute, will you?”The “kid” is a recent lit grad from Columbia University with a penchant for Joyce and Hardy and an innate distrust for this particular editor.
Just scribble some basic notes and advise her to knock off about fifty pages.” He takes a manuscript off his desk and hands it to the intern.The young man looks down at the manuscript, then up at the editor to ask, “Is it feminist lit, sir?”The editor stands, and indicates that the other man should do the same.
That "50 Shades" is such a success should not be surprising-- it's just that the reminder that other people are having sex while you are (or are not) is.I've been quoted before as saying that "sexual non-adventure is a sin..." & in that same spirit, Erica Jong has given a frank & incredibly enjoyable read.
This is rightfully in the 1001 (or 1306?) List of Books to Read (Before Expiring)--in good company with Sade's 120 Days and Justine, as well as, perhaps the male counterpart to "Fear of Flying," the less thrilling but more pretentious "Rabbit Run" by Updike.
Eons ago, I'd heard this book consisted wholely of sex & zipless fucks.Surprise! Jong writes insightfully about the between-a-rock-and-a-hard-place that women resided in during the early 1970s, and at times still do. The protagonist isn't what I consider terribly likable, yet her bold intelligence, self-awareness, and wit carry her through myriad messy bits.Jong states in the author interview at the end that she'd like this book to be considered a modern classic - which it is! - so I've marked it as such my Goodreads bookshelf.The audiobook narrator is stupendous!
Let’s make fun of being f-word Jewish American and finding yourself in c-word Germany.
Let’s make fun of having sex with your husband but thinking about another man.
Actually it sort of sounds like it was pretty obvious those days too - let’s see, what do you think of when I say the words Jewish American?
Earlier on this evening I was talking to my sainted mother on the telephone, and she noted that I seemed to be "reading a lot of intellectual books lately," to which I reacted with vehemently indignant daughterly rage: "I am NOT, Mom!"Why my mother's comment should seem so thoroughly offensive is a fitting subject for my analyst (a mythical figure about whom I love to fantasize but probably wouldn't enjoy much if he actually existed), though not so much for the internet, but I've got poor boundaries and terrible judgment, so here goes....Let's face it, folks: I've been having a lot of trouble reading books lately.
Isadora Wing (with a name like that, Erica Jong brings the concept of 'thinly veiled autobiography' to new heights) is an exuberant and lovable character.
I appreciate what this book must have meant to women in the '70s, when it was generally unacceptable for them to talk about their sex lives and fantasies - as thin and sad as many of Isadora's sexual experiences seem when you read about them today.
However, I think that as a work of literature, this book is average or less than - and I'm judging it as an attempted work of literature because that's how Isadora/Erica Jong seems to view it.
I'd say it was the pseudo-intellectual self-absorbed ramblings of a spoilt 29-year-old 'poet' that does not stand the test of time.But let me first say, I'm not one to dole out 1* reviews.
Her style is repetitive and rambling, full or irritating asides and diversions, but what really irks is she has not a good word to say about anybody - not her long-suffering family, her countless shrinks (they had their work cut out there), her two ex husbands, no one.
And given the book's reputation, I expected more emphasis on sexuality and fantasy and less on pseudo intellectualism and psychoanalysis.
كما أنه من الضروري أن نفهم تاريخ الحركة النسوية في الغرب، التي تصنف إلى ثلاث موجات، وخصائص كل موجة.هنا مقال ممتاز يقدم موجزًا عن كل موجةhttp://www.alittihad.ae/mobile/detail...على الرغم من أن إريكا يونغ غير معروفة على نطاق واسع عربيًا (المرة الأولى والوحيدة التي اصطدمت باسمها كانت أثناء قراءتي لكتاب سوبر مان عربي لجمانة حداد)، إلا أنها مشهورة جدًا خارج منطقتنا، خصوصًا في أمريكا وأوروبا.
هي نفس العقلية التي تسمح لشاعر كنزار قباني بتوظيف أعضاء النساء الخاصة في قصائده، وتصفه بالشاعر المبدع، ولكنها تنظر في نفس الوقت بازدراء واحتقار للأديبة التي توظف أعضاء الذكور في رواياتها، وتصفها بالفاجرةوفي هذا السياق تقول الكاتبة في أحد فصول الرواية "قبل أن تبدأ النساء بتأليف الكتب لم يكن هناك إلا جانب واحد للقصة.
Zipless FuckMy one and only one-night stand. A reviewto comein more ways than one.
She simply said, "You should read Fear of Flying- it's like the first vagina monologue."As it happens, she was so right.
If I'd read it in my early 20's, wouldn't the bits about Isadora's first husband, the secret scizophrenic, going off the deep end have helped me deal much better when my secretly scizophrenic best friend went off the deep end?
Perhaps, though, it really is better to have read it now, when Isadora and I are practically the same age.
It felt very appropriate, but it's true that Fear of Flying was very influential in second-wave feminism.
the zipless fuck just means that you get someone else to do the scratching.
Today's society is a lot more open and much of the stuff described in this book is fodder for even the tamest of day time TV shows, soap operas and talk radio (although I imagine it will be a cold day in hell before we see Phil Schofield and Holly Willoughby using the word c*nt on This Morning).
This allows us to purvey the impression of liberal open mindedness while still secretly maintaining the same level of stultified sexual prudery beyond closed doors.
Isadora Wing, welcome to my shit list.
She doesn’t know, but in either case, she’s convinced that she’ll be fine.The facts of Erica Jong’s biography for her first twenty-nine years match those of Isadora Wing’s life almost exactly, but the novel was clearly intended as a satire.
It's amazing that the only thing most people seem to remember from the book is the provocative expression Ms. Jong invented to encapsulate Isadora’s fantasy, the proverbial "zipless fuck", while instead they kind of miss the fact that it’s a rare example of a bildungsroman in which a woman, not a man, struggles to define what she wants her life to look like, and to compel that image into being.
E' molto più facile stare a guardare.Volare significa significa portare avanti una relazione perché ci si crede, nonostante i se e i ma, nonostante i difetti difetti dell'altro.Paura di volare è paura di essere grandi, di imboccare una strada e tenerla.La protagonista di questo libro, alter ego della scrittrice stessa, sa cosa non vuole.
Non vuole una vita ingabbiata da marito e figli.
Non vuole sacrificare tutta la sua una vita unicamente per il lavoro.
Diciamo un libro decisamente datato.La relazione uomo donna negli ultimi anni è in evoluzione e ciò che era vero cinquant'anni fa non è più vero ora.
Una voglia che, in questo romanzo, non ho trovato.
http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b0713zf7Description: The radio premiere of Erica Jong's bold and bawdy novel about a young woman's quest for sexual liberation was a controversial best-seller in 1973.1/5: Isadora Wing has been married to psycho-analyst Bennett for five years.
But's she restless and yearns for the perfect, guiltless, zipless sexual encounter.The sixties was spent doing, the seventies was spent writing and I'm sure that this was racy at the time and many women will have started to look at life differently.
Felt a bit of a voyeur reading flisters star values on this yet I have absolutely no interest in venturing past this first episode.
الخوف من الطيران.....إريكا يونغالجرأة في الرواية مربكة وفيها نغمة كره للعالم والواقع كبيرة، الكاتبة 
And to find novels in which you have plot, character, literary quality, plus detailed and real moving descriptions of fucking is a rarity.”Writing about sex and writing to arouse the reader are different things which too often get confused.
I would love to hear from any women who were adults at the time Fear of Flying came out and get a sense of what you think has changed if anything.I can understand women who worked for a certain level of equality becoming impatient with Isadora and her angst, they were too busy making changes to stop and worry about anything else.
This is an important book that I can’t believe more women haven’t read, and men for that matter.
Isadora Wing. Bright, blond, brash, brilliant, a frustrated poet in a sexually unfulfilling marriage who goes to Vienna, meets a man, climbs in his car and tries to figure out where she's going and where she's been, Isadora gave birth to a million chick-lit heroines and made and equal number of college girls dream about the adventures they, too, could have.
"La vita non ha una trama"Paura di volare, pubblicato nel 1973, è accompagnato dalla fama di essere il libro manifesto della liberalizzazione dei costumi sessuali femminili, una sorta di proclama della possibilità o del desiderio della donna di poter praticare sesso in maniera lieve e senza legami.Almeno, io mi ero fatta più o meno questa idea.A me pare però che l'obiettivo del libro sia tutt'altro: per come l'ho letto io, il libro, intriso di psicanalisi e di citazioni libresche di tutti i tipi [la Jong sicuramente è stata una lettrice non solo accanita ma pure onnivora], è una sorta di romanzo di formazione, un romanzo scritto per affrontare le proprie paure, che nel caso di Isadora [alter ego di Jong] è quella di riuscire a stare da sola, è quella di riuscire a reggersi sulle proprie gambe senza necessità di avere il sostegno di un uomo al suo fianco.
I found this very dated and not relevant to women today. Not only because the zipless fuck is less likely to happen but because the book dosen't seem to approach realtionships with any equality. The psychology of the book seemed like the most outdated part. For me the writting was not good enough to overcome the shortcomings of the story. I appreciate that the the book for the impact it made on women's sexual liberation and freedom, but not relevant in today's sexual practices or norms. More intresting as a historical artifact then as a novel.
I wish I could have a more natural visceral reaction to this book but I read it from a state of being all too aware of it's controversy and place in feminism and time.
I did instantly feel a connection with Isadora, actually a pretty intense one, "damn someone already wrote the book I've always wanted to write," and it wasn't even all that stimulating sexual misadventure but rather what some critics would call Isadora's dime a dozen "neurotic tendencies." It's funny because the fact that Isadora's complexity, which she herself questions, is judged so harshly is a big part of what this book is commenting on.
As I read it I too questioned myself, with all the context I knew about the book glaring back at me with a criticizing eye.
In reading Henry Miller's review of "Flying" I'd say he's right on the money with his want (at the time) for more female writers to be so unhinged when it comes to our most common fears and desires and not to feel like a slut for wanting these things.
While the story has plot points based on Erica Jong's own life it does transcend into a character that I think any woman can relate to in terms of wanting to not feel alone yet always feeling that way in a relationship.
Yes it challenged many aspects of my thoughts and opinions and there were times where I just wanted to shake Isodora back to reality but by the end she had a point, a confusion, a sense of chaos that many of us have felt about various things (and everything) at times that we haven't been able to voice or act upon.
Either way Jong has captured the sense of chaotic freedom that embodied feminism in the 70's and even today as we are still held to ideals and expectations that don't quite fit with how we want to live.
I imagine it's hard to read this out of context, but for as much as I've heard about its importance it was agonizing to read. Not sexy, not liberating, it feels like a story about a bunch of people whose lives are dominated by analysis/therapy. Just not interesting at all.
But's she restless and yearns for the perfect, guiltless, zipless sexual encounter.2/5: Isadora Wing has overcome her fear of flying to travel to Vienna with husband Bennett to attend a psychoanalysts' conference.
Could this be the guiltless, zipless sexual encounter she has fantasized about?3/5: Poet Isadora Wing is in Vienna, where she keeps travelling between the beds of her husband Bennett and her new lover, the charming Englishman, Adrian Goodlove.
But can Adrian offer the perfect, guiltless, zipless sexual encounter she's always fantasized about?4/5: It's decision time.
When you're ready to graduate from Judy Blume, this is it.
