https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/270805.Impulse
Unfortunately, Impulse is a pretty terrible book, with severe issues of mental health being tackled sort of horribly and a shitty love triangle no one cares about.
I don't speak for all depressed people, but reading a book like this or All the Bright Places in a really depressed phase would've been extremely toxic for me.
I really don't feel like complaining about this because so many other books have this same exact message, but I have a post about this on my blog, if anyone's interested in general thoughts on this topic.
✔ Generally, I feel like this isn't a book for mentally ill teens.
Why Impulse is the WORST Book I’ve Ever Read Warning: This review will contain unmarked spoilers!Also, if you loved this book and are going to be angry if someone didn’t like it, you may want to keep scrolling.Oh boy. Where to start... This is my second time reading this book. The first time was about a year ago, and it has stuck with me as one of the worst books I’ve ever read. I decided I wanted to do a reread as more of an in-depth analysis, looking for the problematic aspects I picked up on
Conner is a golden boy with a bright future, Tony has spent much of his life in juvie and on the streets, and Vanessa lives in the shadow of her mother’s mental illnesses.I have this picture in my head of Ellen Hopkins sitting at her computer, trying to come up with her next novel idea.
Wonder if he's ever let a guy touch that pumped-up bod." Just makes the character sound like a perv."Did she have a clue that all those dollars spent on haute couture allowed her sweet young son to feed his appetite for carnal pleasure—to divvy himself among a stable of fillies?" I actually feel gross reading that sentence.
3.5 stars. The fact is, this is my third read by Ellen Hopkins and all of the books I've read so far have affected me quite deeply. I've discovered in this past year that I really like novels in verse, I couldn't imagine it being my thing before I first picked up Burned but all the ones I've read have been all the more emotional, moving and effective because of it. Before I start on about what I don't like, I'll just say now: this book is worth your time if you are okay with the depressing, dis
Before I start on about what I don't like, I'll just say now: this book is worth your time if you are okay with the depressing, disturbing and occasionally gross.But, there's this one thing that is the same in all of Ellen Hopkins' books, and to understand it best try and imagine the novel is two halves.
Okay, now half one is like the very first Saw film: original, shocking, disturbing, horrifying but good as well because it's so different.
And if you think your life's worse than this, I recommend writing to Hopkins as you'll probably feature in her next book.It's not like it isn't good.
All in all, the only impression I could get was that these were just regular kids with problems but the main characters were too concerned with forming weird love triangles and figuring each other out that they only took the time to gossip about everyone else.
And the only time she actually socialized was when she was insulting Dahlia.3.
And for all the internal whining they did, and all the times when the story was cut off before some "big revelation" Conner didn't seem like anything more than any regular rich kid with not-overly-affectionate parents.
Impulse is a very short, but very powerful story.Ellen Hopkins is known for tackling those tough issues that are shocking to read about, but are particularly more disturbing when they are about such young people.
The beauty of this book is in turning each page and wondering what new bit of information is going to be revealed about each person's past.Ellen writes this book in verse, like several of her other books.
Ellen has skills, however, and you are most likely always going to have some sort of emotional reaction to her writing.
Why is it that they couldn’t see beyond their current situations, and why did they thought they had nothing left to loose.It was especially hard for me to read this because I’ve been in this sort of situation, think of me as Vanessa [If you have read the book] if not, well, you need to read it, you really do.
Everything was so real, and I actually thought I was going to have trouble keeping up with the writing style, but no, it was really easy to follow and to get into it.Impulse shows the life of mainly three teens, though there are more people interned in Aspen Springs and you get to catch a glimpse of them.
Impulse really shows this: Some people will make it.
I'm guessing everyone would if they read the book.
One has overbearing parents that push their children to be the best, they have no warmth for the children.
They just keep pushing them.
Gunshot...One has a father in the military and left at home with a grandmother, a little brother and a mother who is bipolar and accidentally kills herself.
Cuts the vein...One has a father that left and a mother that lets her boyfriend molest them.
Everything is good...until they die :( This author writes the most heartfelt, real stories and I just love them.
Great book, sad and great
but hey, rejoice, he’s actually not????* whyyyyyyyy is this happening - gay people aren’t gay because something bad happened to them, stoooooop this* ALSO - suicide is basically treated like a plot device and in the end, one of the characters commits suicide so that the other two can basically be together without anyone interfering, at least that’s what I gathered out of it* WHHYYYYYYYY* there are so many sensitive issues crammed in, that at one point it doesn’t seem believable anymore: suicide (by several methods), self harm, drug abuse, sexual assault, sexual abuse, abortion, child neglect, AIDS, murder and others I’m not mentioning because I am Tired.* this actually leads, imo, to poor character development and they just feel...
I suppose it might be in part due to the first-person nature of the narrative, but I was also disappointed by the way that Conner, Vanessa, and Tony seemed to be the only human characters in the novel.
I also didn't quite feel that Hopkins did a good enough job evoking the different voices of the main characters through the poetry, which was supposed to have been written by them: it all seemed as though it was written by the same person.I think this could be popular with upper middle and high school students, but it's likely to rub some more mature readers the wrong way.
Before I read it I had been avoiding her writing for a long time because the books looked lengthy and the style of poetry didn't seem to be right up my alley - but I was proved wrong.Impulse is about three 17 year old teens who have each tried to commit suicide - and failed.
The story is told in three different point of views - Tony, Vanessa, and Connors'.
The one thing I really liked about her was her connection with Tony at the end of the book.Tony - I found his personality and point of view the best out of threesome.
I’m torn in regards to my feelings about this book in general. It did destroy me in more ways than one, though.
"Impulse" is not an easy book to read.
But as the story progresses, the lives and experiences of these teenagers unfold in front of our eyes and we learn that there are much deeper reasons for these kids to desire to end their lives.The only reason I picked up this book was because I needed to read something in verse for my reading challenge.
But as soon as I opened the book and read the first lines, I was hooked.
I've read stories about similar subject matter in the past, but this book was by far the most memorable for me.
The three main characters are living in treatment facility and each has attempted suicide.Typically I don’t pick up books that deal with such a heavy subject matter, but I think that every once in a while it’s good to set my fantasy aside and pick up something raw and real, like I was hoping Impulse to be.Sadly I found Impulse to be one of the worst portrayals of mental illness I’ve ever read about.Gah, I had so many problems with this book, where do I even start?
Nobody who tries to tackle THAT many issues in one single novel is going to do it well.All of Hopkins' books, for the most part, revolve around teenagers, which I find ironic considering she had literally NO idea how teenagers actually talk in Impulse.
I couldn't ignore it, either, as the entire story, for the most part, revolves around the love triangle, which, in the long run, leads Conner to suicide.Probably the most problematic thing I have EVER read was regarding Tony's sexuality throughout this book.
I'm left speechless by this book. I think my heart left my body while reading this, and if anyone finds it please tell me.I absolutely  loved  this book. This book was so beautiful, relatable yet heartbreaking all at the same time. Vanessa cuts herself, I used to cut myself. Conner is in a perfect family, and all he wants to do is kill himself. I have what people would call a perfect family, and it's hard to live up to their expectations. Then we have Tony who is the gay guy with a very rough pa
I'm left speechless by this book.
I think my heart left my body while reading this, and if anyone finds it please tell me.I absolutely 
This book was so beautiful, relatable yet heartbreaking all at the same time.
Conner is in a perfect family, and all he wants to do is kill himself.
I have what people would call a perfect family, and it's hard to live up to their expectations.
If you've ever had depression, this book is something that I think you'll be able to relate to.
This book is perfect.
Speaking of Perfect, I can't wait to read it next.
I liked the main characters and each of their story.
None of them deserved the hand they were dealt with (view spoiler)[and I really liked Conner and for his story to end like this is just sad.
(hide spoiler)]I liked that Conner, Tony and Vanessa were so close to each other.Is like no other kiss, ever.
Most of all, it makes me want another kiss exactly like this one.I liked how Tony's and Vanessa relationship progressed.
It was cute and I really liked Tony's story and how he still had a lot of love to give and hope for him and his future.
I had heard good things about Ellen Hopkins, so I decided to buy Impulse and it's sequel, Perfect.Three extremely troubled teens, in a psych hospital, trying to work through their problems and mental illnesses.These characters were shallow, and not likable.
Also, who thought it would be a good idea to take a bunch of troubled teens, seriously depressed, suicidal, or otherwise- on a rock-climbing trip.
The plot was focused mainly on the weird love triangle, and not on the actual issues to their depression, and mental illness.
This ISN'T an accurate portrayal of troubled teens at all.
It was sad, happy, angry,depressed and anything else you can think of.Man, it was so awesome!Vanessa.
Vanessa meets Tony, has a bit of attraction to him, and finds out he's gay.
Tony loves Vanessa.
So, Tony attempts suicide.He gets sent to a crazy house.Tony meets Vanessa.
Tony meets Conner, instant friends.YAY!
Tony has an attraction to Conner.
Tony likes Vanessa.
Tony and Vanessa like each other back, in fact, they love each other.
Conner likes Vanessa.
Conner likes Vanessa.
Conner see's Vanessa and TOny together.
His parents were shit to him, his lover left him, Vanessa loves TOny and Conner is sad.
Yet another teen fiction author who was never a teen herself.
This book probably would have been good if the teenagers had acted like teenagers!"What's it like?" I ask.
"Making love to someone?"Vanessa takes my hand.
"I thought I knew, once or twice before, but now I see there was no love at all between us.
I won't know until I make love to you."Gag me with a spoon!
Ellen!
Come on, these are seventeen year old kids!
Let's get real, please.
No teenager talks like that.
Tony and Vanessa were so nauseating it's no wonder Conner jumped off a cliff.
Okay, this audiobook may not have been the way to go.
I enjoyed the writing style, the flow, but the audiobook had multiple male POVs and the voices weren't different enough.
The mental health discussions intrigue me, the psychology nerd in me, but there are a host of trigger warnings for this book and a lot was hard to listen to.
Something about reading isn't as real as hearing a cutter idolize cutting and describe it.
I didn't connect to the characters and the instalove but I appreciated their motivations and their mental health journeys.
Overall, just an ok read with a disappointing ending.
Without WarningSometimes You're traveling A highway, the only road You've ever known And WHAM! A semi Comes from nowhere And rolls right over youSometimes You don't wake up But if you happen To, you know things Will never be The sameSometimes That's not So bad.Sometimes Lives intersect No rhyme, no reason Except, perhaps For a passing semi
Wow, just wow. It didn't take me long to finish this book because it was fast paced and it just. Wow. that's all I have. This was amazing. I just the ending felt like I had lost Conner as a best friend. Like, he just jumped off the cliff and i just thought i lost someone that was important to me. What a major plot twist Ellen.
I’ll go into my feelings more later but a lot is bothering me and I’m struggling with the characters. I love Tricks and Crank by Ellen Hopkins but I just think there’s too much going on in this one and it’s not for me. :(
3.5 starsThis is the third book by this author that I've read.
She writes sad, gritty stories about all sorts of dysfunction and messed up youth.
I've noticed two common themes that run through all of her stories: drug use and insta-love.
The characters were damaged and needy, which explains the holes they needed to fill.
Drugs, as well as a host of other things, plagued the youth in this book.
And so did insta-love.
I liked the writing.
There were some beautiful passages that had me saying, "Wow. I liked this book better than the other two I've read.
This book is great and really digs deep into heart touching topics. I would recommend this to more mature readers and even though I read the second book first by accident it wasn’t confusing because yes it has a second book but it’s from different character perspective so it was really cool to see it from this angle. Definitely a great read.
The book tells from the three character’s point of view about their life and their everyday struggle to control their inner demons.
This book will take you into three teens lives and show you the horror and suffering they indure everyday.
As they pass more levels they will have more freedom to do stuff.The genre of this book I think is realistic fiction/ thriller and young adult.
It lets you deep inside on how life is for these kinds of teens.
If you want to know what happens and if these teens solve their suicidal problems you’ll have to read the book!Page Count: 666Genre: Realistic fiction/ thriller
I'm still reeling after having just completed the reading of this novel.
I am humbled at just how little I know and how complex life is on so many levels.
This is a book of "inside" and "outside" stuff.
I think about resiliency and the difference one caring adult can make in a person's life.
The kind of deep, psychological pain that is explored in this book is real for so many.
How does one rise above deep debilitating experiences?
Could I have helped them more?I will be processing this book for sometime.
Definitely a mature read.
Text to World This was a very dark, yet very effective story of three depressed teenagers who end up at the same treatment center.
I wanted to use this for text to world because I feel that it is important for people to understand what others around them go through.
Each of the teens in this story attempted suicide, and all for different reasons.
I just wanted to illuminate this story to the text to world section to say that people struggle through life, and a smile or friendly word can make a difference of a lifetime.
“Love means holding on to someone just as hard as you can because if you don't, one blink and they might disappear...forever.”
I can't. I just can not. Do not get me wrong. This book is about suicide. A very sensitive and taboo subject to talk and discuss. Especially when the 3 characters all have mental disorder. It does not make this book more raw. But the writing is just too slow. I just can not finish it. Just can not. DNF shelve.
