https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10108.The_Autobiography_of_Henry_VIII
Yet after it was all over and I had moved on, I still found myself looking back with fond memories and a feeling of love that I had thought lost by the end of the book...I think you get the point.
There is always an interesting thing to consider when reading historical fiction - how much history and how much fiction?
I appreciate what George has done, certainly, but for me it's always the fiction part I love, whereas George is more history I think.
The fool Will Somers’ notes are actually a very small part of this novel, and most of the text is told from Henry’s point of view and in his voice, with infrequent interjections by Will who has written some comments on the items he reads in the journal before sending it off.Henry does not become King until page 92 of this 932-page book, and that is a wise decision of the author’s as what precedes his kingship is important to what happens during it.
Not one you should pick up unless you're planning to be in it for the long haul and are genuinely interested in the subject matter.After years of seeing Henry portrayed as a fat, greedy slob whose only concern in life was to have a son, this book made a wonderful change.
It seems that Henry's Great Matter really did go on for years and all the detail put in concerning England's breaking away from Rome became rather tedious.Although the majority of the book is told from Henry's point of view, the text is occasionally interjected with words from the King's jester, Will Somers.
This is a very long but readable novel purporting to be the autobiography of Henry VIII, with commentary by his court fool.
It tracks the king's life from his earliest memory at the age of three until shortly before his death.
It is vividly told, and even though scenery and small details are mentioned with photographic accuracy for the reader's benefit, it is done so subtly that said reader doesn't really mind.
It gives us a glimpse into the innner life of someone often thought of as a "monster" who disposed of people around him with nary a twinge of conscience.
What we get is a nuanced larger-than-life portrayal.
This is a book told from Henry’s viewpoint.
From the beginning, I was captivated and drawn into King Henry’s world.
The author makes Henry come alive as a human being with many of the same feelings as the rest of us and not a monster that is the common portrayal of him.
The author does a fabulous job recreating the events of the time and the powerful people surrounding the King which shaped him.
I was unhappy with the Anne Boleyn’s story; the book concludes that she was an evil, adulterous witch and carries on, it was disappointing.
It pissed me off that Jane was mourned and moaned over for five hundred damn pages, that Anna of Cleves was called a dog and a horse by everyone, that Anne Boleyn was literally demonized, that Henry really loved his children, dammit, and wanted them to love him back!George eventually discounted Henry's pre-occupation with having a male heir, too, and his reasons for such.
I cannot recommend this book highly enough; if you enjoy historical fiction or would like to know more about this time period in particular, read it.
If you have any interest or curiosity in the life and times of Henry VIII and want to know more besides what is "common knowledge" about him -almost all of it wrong, this book is the best place to begin.
Surprisingly readable and engaging, this is one book that I can proudly put on my favorites shelf.
You’re probably thinking: “That’s a lot of pages!” I admit I was a bit intimidated by the length of Margaret George’s novel on Henry VIII.
I could not determine if these were thus because the novel was first published in 1986 or because it was Henry’s view and his side of the story is skewed (an attempt to add character to the story); but either way, I noticed the errors.
Furthermore, some of George’s contrived Henry experiences created simply for the novel were so outrageous and ridiculous that it created even more dissonance in the already filtered reading.
Like most Henry VIII novels, The Autobiography of Henry VIII focused mostly on Henry’s mistresses, wives, and search for wives.
Another flawlessly researched and written book by Margaret George.
I knew quite a bit about Henry before I read this, but it added a dimension that I hadn't expected to his character.
Years after reading it I traveled to England and was surprised what a celebrity he still is there.
Truthfully, though he's known for the outrageous elimination of his wives, we sometimes forget what an amazing effect he had on the progress of Great Britain by severing ties with Rome.
George represents him as a tortured soul, wanting to leave an heir to the throne, but no matter how she presented him, he really was quite despicable in my view.
Teenage King, always warring with France, cuts ties with Rome and changes the course of history just so he can get a divorce, six wives - two have their heads lopped off, one dies in childbirth, one is too ugly, one won't provide him with a son (tsk!
Written from Henry's point of view so we get to see his life as he sees it.
Not surprisingly, his poor wives come in for a pretty raw deal; but again it is written from Henry's point of view.
She is a lovely writer.I think everyone is, at least passingly, familiar with the Tudors, and if not them as a family, then Henry VIII because of his many wives.
I like that she portrays him as such a religious man.
Even had I not already known this about Henry, I would probably at least have had a suspicion after reading.I'd like to list all the quotes I fell in love with from this book, but, really, that would entail pages.
Henry was a man, like any other, and that's the greatest thing an autobiography can leave us with.
George does put forth a theory about Henry's wives that I have not seen so blatantly stated before: Henry constantly craves love and acceptance because he never received any from his mother.
Other Historical novels often look at Henry through the eyes of his women, his friends or his courtiers.
Definitely worth a read simply because there are so few historical fiction novels with POV from Henry VIII.
Looking back at the novel one can really pinpoint the beginning of his irrational behaviour to that time in his life.
When Catherine's father, King Ferdinand of Spain, did not support Henry against the French as had been agreed, it is not so strange that he questioned his wife's allegiance.
This book is a diary written by King Henry, with added notes by his jester, Will Somers.
Once I started questioning what I was being fed, I spent more time reading Wiki than reading the book!There was one, and only one, little sparkle in the first 172 pages of the book, and that is when Henry fell head over heels in love with his brother's wife Catherine.....but soon that disappeared and was replaced with his drive for success and power.
Nagyon érdekes egyébként, hogy a 6 feleség mennyire más és más személyiség volt és mégis ugyanazon király mellé sodorta őket a sors.
Aki elolvassa ezt a könyvet, teljesen máshogy fog tekinteni erre a történelmi alakra.
Határozottsága és erőskezűsége mellett azonban Henrik időről-időre szánnivaló bábunak tűnik a történelem sodrának kezében, aki kétségbeesetten próbálta megvédeni a rá bízott országot, kétségbeesetten küzdött trónörökösért és békéért a körülötte intrikáló nemesi családok és a többi nagyhatalom gyűrűjében.Nagyon szerettem olvasni ezt a könyvet, olvasmányosan, érdekfeszítően és hihetően írta meg Margaret George mind az 1200 oldalt, így nem tudok neki rosszabbat adni öt csillagnál.
We've all read about Henry VIII and his six wives.
This book delves into what kind of man (and king) he may have been.
His fears, his strengths are discussed here in the form of a diary that has been discovered after his death and is being sent to an illegitimate daughter of Henry by his "fool", Will Somers.
The word "fool" refers to someone who is permitted to speak plainly to the King or Queen.
In this novel, Will makes comments periodically as if he has already read the diary and we see inside Henry the king and the man.
I've been on a huge kick for historical ficton lately especailly the Tudors.
Henry VIII is the most amazing character in British history.
This book allows you to look a his life on a whole not just one portion of it.It talks of his youth.
Anne Bolyn.
I never really paid much attention to his life except for the well told tales with Anne Bolyn so it was great to get an over look at all his loves and loses.This book kinda drags on in certain places but overall the author does a good job of bringing Henry VIII to life for me.
Yep... Finished a week, and I'm listening to it again... ******************************************************Book: 6starsNarrator : 6++++ starsThe best book I've read this year. I intend to write a review that is worthy of this grand book. I encourage anyone interested in this historical masterpiece to buy this as an audiobook. This is a novel that is made even more compelling by outstanding the perchance of the narrator, (It is rumored that the author was the director of the audio performance)
I find Henry VIII fascinating so this was an easy rate for me maybe even a 4.5
Henry explains all this and more.If you know the story of the Tudors, this will have you laughing out loud.
For instance the subtle introduction of Anne Boleyn's brother and musician; Catherine Howard's past life; the future power of the Seymours; the conversations with Cromwell or More; the character of Thomas Seymour considering his role in the lives of his final widow and second daughter (which taking place after his death is not presented here)...
the list goes on and on.The dialog is wonderful from the self-centered Queen Anne Boleyn to the academic Katherine Parr, the warm and innocent minded Thomas More.
This has to be the best way to learn about history - read a fictional account of a particular subject.
This makes things interesting and educational.932 pages - you have everything you could want to know about Henry VIII and what drove him to make the well known decisions.
The latter parts of the book have a more melancholy air, as old age takes over and he realises the many mistakes he made.We learn about his wives (of course), Wolsely, More and others.
What more could you want from a 17 day read.
This was the book that jolted my interest in the Royal line of Britain. I went from Henry VIII to learning everything I could about the entire line and it all started with this marvelous work of fiction by Margaret George.
What a great week I spent in Henry’s company!
In fact, to fully appreciate Henry’s deluded and self-pitying take on things, I think it actually works best if you already know his life and competing versions / explanations of events.The laugh out loud hilarity of so much of it was a treasure, George kept it sooo subtle but there was some great humor in there as courtiers and statesmen struggled to maintain normalcy in the face of absurdity.
Now off to read all the rest of her work!
It was utterly amazing!
Being obsessed with Tudor England, I have read many a fiction and non fiction book depicting this maniac and will read many a more!
But this one definitely goes in a league of its own!
If I didn’t know better, I would’ve thought I was reading Henry’s true life memoirs.
Please!) to his lust for Anne Boleyn and Kitty Howard, to…oh okay, I’ll stop.
But anyway, this book was emotionally exhausting but freaking amazing!
It’s definitely become a favourite and I doubt I’ll read anything so convincing again!
But I know they say ‘truth is stranger than fiction’ so we will see!
Wow. I can’t believe I finally finished this huge book. It seems like I’ve been reading it for a very long time, but it’s only been three weeks, so I guess that’s not too bad. Yes, it deserves a five. It is a stunning piece of fiction. I highly recommend it if you have any interest in Tudor history. Obviously, it isn’t really Henry VIII’s autobiography, but George did her research, so I think I can trust her. You will probably come away from this book liking Henry VIII a little more than you previously had, I know I did.
Rarely do I tackle books this long but I really enjoyed all 932 pages. All the way through the book was interesting and entertaining. Certainly a more fun way to learn about Henry VIII than some dry academic biography.
Reviews every where have this novel being some kind of must read for fans of Tudor fiction.
I get it, this was a book told from Henry's point of view.
It wasn't just Anne Boleyn who suffered from poor characterization.
Once more, I get it, this is a novel told from Henry's point of view.
If you consider yourself a die-hard Tudor fan, then I would recommend reading this book.
If I were to make a list of fictional novels I think Tudor fans should read, this book would make the list.
She read and studied many books and period accounts (check out the bibliography), as well as having visited England more than once for the express purpose of researching the life and personality of Henry VIII during the 15 years it took her to write it.
I feel so bad for people who cannot get past the so-called aristocratic, stuck-up British accent that narrator David Case uses.
I believe that Henry VIII must have sounded just like David Case (also known as Frederick Davidson)!
This book lives because of David Case's narration.
The Autobiography of Henry VIII is the first novel published by esteemed historical fiction novelist Margaret George.
Although this book may seem like a real autobiography at first glance based on the title (of course it's not - how is that even possible?), this novel is actually a fictional firsthand account of the life of Henry VIII, as told by his fool, Will Somers.Sitting at a very thick 960 pages, The Autobiography of Henry VIII may seem an overwhelming feat to some readers, especially those skeptical about picking up this novel to begin with.
Her part was way too long and it was annoying, especially because Henry harped on the witch bit just because he didn't get a son off her and he had people he liked executed, i.e Thomas More.
But again, it's from Henry's POV so there you go.I kind of skimmed through Anne of Cleves and Catherine Howard, but I mainly got the gist of it.
Catherine Howard was portrayed as a bit of a ditz, which in all honesty, she could've been, but everyone has portrayed her as a stupid teenagers and the stereotype just kind of made me mad.I skimmed through Kathryn Parr because at this point I was bored, and just wanted to finish the book.I liked the book, but I really wished it didn't harp on the stereotypes.
Die großen Vorzüge des Buches sind mit Sicherheit die gute Recherche und der Versuch das Leben eines der verrufendsten Könige der Geschichte aus seiner eigenen Sicht zu erzählen.
Es wird ungemein viel Wissen über die politischen und religiösen Zustände der Hochrenaissance mitgeteilt.Dass ein Buch das als Autobiographie gefasst ist, natürlich kein objektives Bild vermitteln wird ist von vornherein klar.
Soweit war das auch zu erwarten, dass jedoch die (nach dem Ableben Heinrichs) eingefügten Kommentare des Hofnarren Will Sommers, dieses Bild nur selten umdrehen und wirklich kritisch kommentieren, ist ein böses Versäumnis.
Wer eine auch nur ansatzweise spannende Story erwartet, wird das Buch bald aus der Hand legen.
