https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36256.My_Theodosia
For my Hamilton fanatic friends!After seeing the Hamilton musical in November, I wanted to reread this historical novel about Burr's daughter. It is not as well known as Katherine and Green Darkness but is a poignant and very readable story.Here is a link to my review: http://perfectretort.blogspot.com/201...
Full disclosure: it's difficult enough getting me into Founding Fathers fiction, so the combination of a slow story with historical name-dropping + obnoxious MCs is virtually guaranteed to kill my interest.
Zzz.) Re: the obnoxious MCs, Burr's creepitude & Theo's blind devotion might well be accurate (I don't claim to be well-versed in Founders' psychology), but it sure is annoying to read about.
And the slow pace is excruciating -- they finally arrived at the bloody plantation, which should have piqued my interest, but by then it was pg 129 & I just DID NOT CARE.
Two I've liked; three I haven't cared for.
This book tells the story of Aaron Burr and his daughter Theodosia (Theo).
Burr plots to have Theo married to the wealthy but uninteresting Joseph Alston of South Carolina.
There are lots of well known names in the story as Theo interacts with them -- Washington Irving (a minor character), Meriwether Lewis (sigh!), Dolly Madison, Alexander Hamilton and more.
The one she wrote for Devil Water and the way she obsessed about the too close relationship between father and daughter really irked me to no end.
Something I started working on as soon as I finished the book because I had to look up every real people mentioned and that I intend to continue by looking for more books with that setting.Theodosia is the beloved daughter of Aaron Burr, America's Vice President from 1801 to 1805 under President Jefferson.
I thought it interesting that Seton doesn't show Burr in a very good light, he manipulates his daughter, and everyone else around him, to his own ends and in doing so gives a great contribution to her tragic life.
I have no problems with the author's portrayal of how misguided popular opinion shapes history or even of the difference between the cultures of Theodosia's youth and her later marriage.
It was a good book for my youthful self.
The book is fiction, I recognize the differences between fiction and history and think that fiction needs to take some license in order to make its points.
I do not, however, think this is one of Seton's best books, but since it was her first, this seems reasonable.
When the book was recommended to me, I was told "it's a lovely story about a father-daughter relationship", but I found it more along the lines of "emotional incest".
The relationship between Theo and her father disgusted me - she was so blindly devoted to him that it overshadowed her entire life.
Her father took advantage of that unconditional love over and over.
I also disliked how other historical figured "just happened" to figure into the story - almost like name dropping.
I don't think I'd recommend this story to any one under 40 years of age.
I'm not generally a fan of historical fiction; however, that is because i've never read anything by Anya Seton. What a phenomenal author. If you'd asked me if I wanted to read a book about Aaron Burr's daughter, Theodosia, and their relationship, I ould guess I'd have passes it up. I couldn't put this book down. I learned more about that whole period of history than I ever learned in school. Very good book! I can't wait to rad more by Anya Seton.
Yikes. It's one thing to read old books, it's one thing to read historical fiction, and it's completely another to read old historical fiction. This book has not aged well, nor do I suspect I would have found much meat in it had I read it in 1941. Lesson learned: just because I'm obsessed with American foundational history does not mean I should pick up every loosely related novel I see. At least it's over now.
The story was interesting, so the two stars.
Obviously Anya Seton was a woman of her times writing about the 1800's, but reading it (for a book group) really made me squirm!
Readers interested in Theodosia's story might want to take a look at Michael Parker's recent novel, The Watery Part of the World.I didn't really like that book much, either, but it does give a different fictional take on what happened to Theodosia Burr.Finished my second time through so I could fill in for absent book group leader.
I stand by my 2-star review.
A couple of the women really enjoyed the book!
Our heroine, Theodosia Burr, is the only child of Vice President Aaron Burr (most famous for his duel with Alexander Hamilton).
This book which spans from 1800-1812 tells the story of her relationship with her father and his self-serving hold on her.
This was Anya Seton's first novel written in 1941 and as always she is a master storyteller.
One of the things I like about this author is her knack of making a rather obscure historical figure into an appealing story.
While not my favorite Seton novel it was well researched and held my interest throughout.
Wow. The gaslighting, Stockholm syndrome and emotional blackmail in this book are astounding. I wanted so badly to hate Theo, but I just felt sorry for her most of the time. I feel like if her mother had lived, she might have been spared the emotional abuse at her father's hand and been able to lead a happy life. The fact that she spent the majority of her married years as an invalid, due to the fact that she was so incredibly unhappy, is just heartbreaking. However, it was a very well written book and kept my attention through out.
Anya Seton's historical fiction, although written in the Mid-20th Century, is exceptional. Well-researched, her characters are fully developed based on what is known of the historical individuals on whom they are based. Yes, dialogue is imagined, but the places, events, and letters as well as speeches, etc are taken from primary documents.The story of Aaron Burr's daughter, Theodosia, and her almost obsessive love and drive to please her father is fascinating. I read most of this in one sitting as I didn't want to put it down.Rating: 4.5
Awful book! I'd already read other Anya Seton books and liked them. If I'd read this one first, I wouldn't have read any others. A dreary drawn out plot. I might have been able to put up with Theodosia's naive adoration of her father, but the mean spirited racist observations in the book disgusted me. Literally just threw this book in the trash can!
This is an example of why I am so hesitant to read historical fiction, especially those whose characters do have an actual place in the past. Herein we are treated to the most intimate thoughts and secret feelings of real and well-known people from the past ... nonsense.
I read all of Anya Seton's books when I was in high school.. Loved all her books..Have found a few I missed--guess my high school didn't have them--that I hope to read.. some still do not have Kindle editions.. Anyone who likes historical fiction would enjoy her books..
Beginning with Theodosia's 17th birthday, June, 1800, and ending with her death in the winter of 1812, the story presents major events in Theodosia's life: courtship, chance encounters with Nathaniel Hawthorne and Meriwether Lewis, unhappy marriage, difficult childbirth, her father's wild schemes, his court trials, her son's illness, and her fateful voyage from her marital home in South Carolina to New York.
Seton presents them through Theodosia's and her husband, Joseph's, point of view.
This is the second Seton novel I've read and I have easily been swept into the story, experiencing the places and people with ease.
This book (written in 1941) was about Aaron Burr's daughter, Theodosia, and the manner in which her father controlled her (like all parents did in the 1800s), except that this relationship was a bit strange.
(Seton believed in reincarnation and in soul recognition and so do I.) It's so sad to think that Aaron practically sold his daughter to a husband he picked out because he was a wealthy planter in the south and Aaron was always in financial trouble.
Since Seton also bases her books on historical fact that makes it all the more intriguing.
This was a pretty quick read, and I did find the story of Theodosia's life fairly interesting. But honestly this was hard to get through reading it through a contemporary lens. The treatment of people of color was hugely problematic, which obviously it was at the time the book was set, but this was more than that. There was an offensive sneeriness toward the slaves and servants that came through in the writing that was probably completely acceptable at the time of publication, but never should have been, and thinking about that pulled me right out of the story.
I read this book in 11th grade US History and remember the story some 50 years later. It inspired me to continue searching for historical fiction books. I still love that genre very much. Thank you, Mr. Frank for suggesting this book.
I could easily put it down & not bothered to finish reading this book. The style was constricted like the time the story was set in, it may have been that I did not find any of the characters interesting enough so that I wanted to find out more.
I have to admit that the only knowledge I have of this period of American history comes from Hamilton. This book focuses on Theodosia, the daughter of Arron Burr. An interesting account, obviously ground in well researched fact.
Outstanding!
Great historical perspective and from everything I've read, quite accurate regarding Aaron Burr and his daughter's relationship.
This was enjoyable reading and intriguing, although not quite believable that Theo and Aaron had such a relationship. I guess the letters, on which the book was based, tell otherwise.
I was expecting more historical fiction and less chick lit. I was disappointed, but the history and perhaps my current interest in all things Hamilton kept me reading.
This is a fictionalized account of the life of Aaron Burr's daughter, encompassing Aaron Burr's life and this period of American History.
For those who like historical fiction, this might be a pretty good choice, but as I'm not a fan, it wasn't a great choice for me.The account uses both Aaron and Theodosia's letters as a resource, to help convey the voices and the father-daughter relationship.
It was written in 1941, so it's possibly the Anya Seton's own immersion in American prejudice of the time accounts for the cartoonish portrayal of the one native American, the various non-Americans, and all of the African American characters; women and southerners as well read like the screen portrayal of themselves in Gone With the Wind.
At 17 Theo accepted the hand of the heir of a prominent South Carolina plantation family.
Theo's father, received the South Carolina's electoral votes (and possibly loans or cash) that almost made him president.Theodosia had been raised on literature, languages and a love of theater.
She does not love this man; her heart belongs to Daddy and in this novel, another historical personage.In speculating on the life of Theodosia, the book shows the stiff courtship that once passed as romance, the contrast of northern and southern cultures, something of the personal dynamics of slave labor and the daring life of Aaron Burr.
Impeccably researched and full of fascinating details, she chronicles the rather sad existence of Aaron Burr's daughter, Theodosia, a learned, pampered free-spirit who has such uncommon devotion to her father that she willingly sacrifices all that makes her happy for his sake.
Ms. Seton emphasized that, while most conversations and interactions in the book were fiction, all of the information about Theodosia's life was true which, in my opinion, makes her one of the most tragic figures of the post-Revolution era.
I was really hoping it would stay that way, but unfortunately the book's flaws became more and more apparent as the story went on.It was clear that this book was not well researched.
Sure, all the right historical events and figures were there, but there was simply not enough research to really bring these people and events to life.
It was as if Seton went down a check list for every stereotype she could think of for creating each character.
And unfortunately, her looks did nothing to enhance this book's dull plot.
All and all, I still think Seton is a great writer with a charming style.
In her author's note, Seton says she tried to be as "historically accurate as possible," while acknowledging the "vast and conflicting" amount of Burr material, and the many theories of Theodosia's mysterious disappearance.
This was a beautifully rendered retelling of the life of Theodosia Burr, daughter of Aaron Burr, that I found believable.
I believe the dynamic between them that Seton presented was accurate.
With a larger-than-life personality and genius (some say) as a father, of course Theodosia was going to be led by him, and do whatever he wishes.
