https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4476539-the-pit-prop-syndicate
Enjoyed this old fashioned mystery. I read some by this author almost 50 years ago. Workmanlike writer. Nothing fancy but so,I’d.
Thoroughly enjoyable read. Held my interest from page 1 till the end.
The nature of the crime is original, and the detection of clues well done.
The time setting of the story - early 1920s - creates period interest.The story is in two halves: first two amateurs try to find the nature of the crime, and evidence for it.
Then the professionals (the police) take over.What lets the story down is the character of one of the amateur 'heroes'.
Further, he allows his desires to impede the pursuit of the criminals; in reality it would be perversion of the course of justice.I have noticed a similar flaw in some of the (excellent) stories by Fletcher's contemporary R Austin Freeman.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book even though it was probably a bit too long.
Crofts' attention to detail is legendary and probably harks back to his previous occupation as a writer of railway timetables.A most ingenious tale in which the participants are engaged in the production and export to England of timber pit props from France.
But what else are they doing and why does it lead to murder ?Brilliant stuff.
Aside from the too-quick falling in love that it shares with many other mystery stories I've read lately, this was a finely-crafted mystery. A better knowledge of boating terms would have helped my understanding of some details, but generally I enjoyed this book.
A Very English MysteryComplex and detailed, this book is typical of the 1920s era of murder mysteries. It takes concentration to stay with the plot, but it's worth it.
Read this book for free through Project Gutenberg: http://www.gutenberg.org/files/2013/2...
Vastly SatisfyingEngaging story line and lively interesting characters. Enjoyed the whole book. Descriptions of the characters and scenery were greatly detailed.
The first half, the initial investigations by a wine merchant and a civil servant, is way too long.
This is exacerbated by the fact Merriman (the wine merchant) is unrelentingly annoying, mooning about after the love of his life, alternatively floating about like a 1920s Ophelia or flouncing off on strops.
There's too much Merriman and not enough Inspector Willis in fact, who's dogged investigation in the second half speeds the tale up to its conclusion and brings the Syndicate down, via a series of slightly confusing train journeys.I'd say stick with Mystery in the Channel which is so far my favourite Freeman Wills Crofts (of the two I've read).
This story became tedious in parts as if the author had no confidence in the reader's ability to reach the correct conclusions. He explained thoughts that were plainly gleaned. The mystery was interesting and the denouement was satisfactory.
Silly old Golden Age mystery. Favorite part: Scotland Yard gets to randomly break into and search anywhere they want to.
A bit long, lots of twists with an interesting wrap up. Re-readable.
This is the second Crofts I've read, and it wasn't much better than the first.
First of all, it was entirely too long.
The same story could have been told in half the words and with half the irritation to the reader.
It goes like this: Here's what the bad guys are doing.
No, not this but probably the original thing.
But then again, it could be the second thing.
These aren't so much twists as annoying curves.Even more annoying is Crofts' fascination with train schedules.
Trainspotters are annoying in person...and even MORE annoying when they invade your book!
Not the Crofts I really wanted (Death of a Train) but I shall sample this new to me author with this.
