https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3077.The_Enchanted_April
June 2012Dissatisfied with their respective lots in life, four English women divorce their respective husbands, get a hefty advance for a book deal, and go off to Italy to enjoy the wisteria (a kind of pasta, I think).
After a month of wisteria and freesias and syringa (more pasta?), the women all go to India, where they become spiritual.
Following that, they go to Bali, and take handsome exotic Indonesian men as lovers.
They don't take lovers or become prayer-tourists?
They just take a month-long vacation in an Italian castle, and they don't divorce their respective husbands?
When one of von Arnim's disastrous marriages ended in 1921, she decided to spend a month at Italian castello Portofino as a way to clear her head.
Wilkins and Arbuthnot originally came to the castle to get away from their husbands, but within a week, both women write their husbands asking them to join them in this enchanting setting.
I am sure the castle itself would have cast its spell on me as it did the ladies in this book, but the novel will not be an all time favorite for me.
Each lady is vaguely unsatisfied with their lot and Mrs Wilkins and Mrs Arbuthnot both have marriages of quiet English unhappiness, but that is about to change as both husbands are invited to come and stay, and it's this holiday reunion that sparks a deeper love, not just for the wives and husbands, but something is opened up in all of them.Elizabeth Von Arnim has a keen eye for small human failings, the little acts of pettiness and selfishness in which most people indulge.
So we're watching the first part of the movie as these British ladies try to figure out how to pull off a month-long vacation trip to Italy (without husbands), and their lives are dreary, and they arrive in Italy and it's dark and rainy and everyone's confused and upset, and my guy and I are both thinking, man, this is going to be either bleak or angsty, which is so not either of our thing.Then morning dawns and it's just absolutely lovely.
Wistaria and sunshine.”This was a lovely book about four English women who answer an advertisement to rent an Italian chateau in San Salvatore,Italy during a dismal April in England.
Also, for a floraphile such as myself, her descriptions of flowers were heavenly:“The wistaria was tumbling over itself in its excess of life, its prodigality of flowering; and where the pergola ended the sun blazed on scarlet geraniums, bushes of them and nasturtiums in great heaps, and marigolds so brilliant that they seemed to be burning, and red and pink snapdragons all outdoing each other in bright, fierce colour.”Additionally, as a person whose life has been changed by travel, I think this book is a great advertisement for travelling to renew your soul and learn more about yourself and others.My first Von Armin and it definitely won’t be my last.
Diverse in nature and temperament, not to mention background, the three women interact uneasily together until flowers and the sea bring about a change in their very souls.Surrounded by fig and olive trees, plum blossoms and Tamarisk daphnes, and the fragrance of fortune's yellow rose and blooming acacias, the women begin to discover their roles at this castle by the sea and, in doing so, find themselves as well.This is a novel about life and love, told gently through the emotions of these women, as the surprise of beauty, and the warmth of being suddenly admired and seen as beautiful -- when they had not been before -- changes their simple lives, which were not so simple at all.A peaceful yet breathtaking portrait of love is painted by the author, in a pleasing and gentle manner readers will find enchanting.
“It was, that year, a particularly wonderful spring, and of all the months at San Salvatore April, if the weather was fine, was best. May scorched and withered; March was restless, and could be hard and cold in its brightness; but April came along softly like a blessing, and if it were a fine April it was so beautiful that it was impossible not to feel different, not to feel stirred and touched.” One of my aunts recently introduced me to fruit infused water. In the scorching Texas heat, which h
That’s exactly how I would describe the taste and effect of this book on me after my previous reading choices.Four British women, all strangers and unique to each other, let a castle high up on the Italian Riviera in April to escape the dismal London weather.
At once introspective, each begins to realize what they yearn for most, and go about setting things to rights.While the theme reminded me of several of E.M. Forster’s novels, I loved the unique female perspective of each character.
(view spoiler)[When she goes to Italy, she doesn’t tell her husband beforehand, but merely leaves him a note that doesn’t even say where she’s gone.
(hide spoiler)]Frederick ArbuthnotRose’s writer husband is rarely at home, but “he never went out of the house without her blessing going with him too, hovering, like a little echo of finished love.” He’s hurt by her disapproval of his writing, her reluctance to spend his money, and the way she has drifted away from him.
Charming, beautiful and wonderfully witty! This was a complete hidden gem, but I loved it, loved the writing which was lyrical, loved the characters, who were all drawn to minuscule detail and mostly loved the exquisite descriptions of Italy and the flowering and fragrance of early April
In the words of Cole Porter, It’s delightful, It’s delicious, It’s de-lovelyThe Enchanted April is sweet and soothing and heartwarming, like the holiday we find ourselves on with Lotty, Rose, Caroline and Mrs. Fisher.
The idea of a medieval castle in Italy was as charming to me as it was to Lotty Wilkins when she encountered the advertisement telling her it was available for let in April.
There is nothing spectacular here, no tense dramatic plot line, no scintillating love story, but there is charm and a lesson about what you owe to self over what you owe to others that today’s women, who are busy in a different way, could still learn from.
Originally published in 1922, the premise of the narrative is appealing: four unrelated women share a medieval castle on the Italian Riviera for a month, the "enchanted April" of the title.
As much I appreciate the strengths of the work, for me it fell away once the husbands of two of the characters arrived.
I'm not convinced that the enchantment would last after Italy, April and sunshine had disappeared.
The idea of a month in a medieval castle with views of the Mediterranean is very appealing indeed, whether or not it works magic.
It satisfies so many of my literary cravings: kinship, validation, botanical beauty.
Elizabeth von Arnim was very smart in the way she developed characters and intertwined their separate narratives into one cohesive whole.
I was just enough aware of literary device to be impressed by it, though nothing ever felt forced.
I was made giddy by the deceptive simplicity of it all.I'm a little conflicted as to how I should shelve this book.
My "ink in full flower" shelf refers to floral imagery (seen here in abundance) but also to poetic prose.
Her prose, for me, is a little too sparse.
Poetic, in its way, but not quite vivid enough.
Each woman begins with her own struggle, discontent, and preconceived notions of what is expected of her as a female member of society.Lotty Wilkins, who is the first to embrace the charms of Italy and is the quintessential transformed spirit in the novel, begins her journey as one who really has very little confidence in herself.
I feel like I should know more songs about this.
I've felt for some time that it was a kind of song I should have been collecting.)I know why the advertisement for the castle with the wisteria brought up such longing in Lotty Wilkins and Rose (I forgot how to spell her A name so we get to be on first name basis.
The special thing about The Enchanted April is the desire to have that gold in the air of summer glow.
Introduction, by Brenda Bowen--The Enchanted AprilChapter One of 'Enchanted August', by Brenda Bowen
The Enchanted April is one of the most sweet books I have read.
The story is about four women, who are almost strangers, sharing a medieval castle for the month of April in Italy.
The four females, three young and one old came from different backgrounds and had different problems.
It was interesting to read these different characters and their different problems.
The characters were so true and real and their problems, their heartaches, all too relatable.
But the honest and truthful account of the lives and problems of young and old women of her time, and their relevance for the modern day made the read appealing.
Both women chance to see an advertisement in The Times concerning an Italian villa (castle) that could be rented for the month of April.
We are taken through the thoughts of both women leading up to the trip and during the month at San Salvatore.The author offers us a study of character and mores at a time in England when the Church of England was coping with the stirrings of gender emancipation and women were considering how they might have a life beyond “God, Husband, Home and Duty.” The other two women are a study in contrasts.
The plot and premise of the story was right up my alley.
This read almost like chick-lit.
Ahh. Makes me wanna drink some 🍷 What took away from my enjoyment was the amount the author veered off from conversations in the present to thinky thoughts of every character in the book.
Three pages could be read with a 2 line conversation in it.
I found i was starting to get a little bored beacause nothing really happened but the constant visit to the past in the characters thoughts.
It was a sweet story anyway just maybe not exactly my cup of tea.
Very enjoyable story of 4 English women who holiday in Italy to escape their lonely lives in London. The transformations wrought by the Italian sun and the landscape are wonderful to behold. There is a delicious note of irony behind the narrative as we watch these women wake up in a decidedly un-feminist time from their pre-holiday existences. I definitely think I'll re-read this book in the future.
What I learned from this book (in no particular order):1. Spring in Hampstead is depressing. Italian trains are always late.2. Eating macaroni with a knife, even though it is of the wormy, stringy variety, is an insult to a proper Italian cook.3. Other people’s chills are always the fruit of folly, and the worst thing that could happen is that if they are handed on to you, who had done nothing at all to deserve them.4. Being too sexy for your own good is hazardous to your mental health.5. Clothe
A flower-bedecked Italian castle by the sea can repair the most broken of marriages and induce you to fall in love with a random person.BUT SERIOUSLY, I liked this book until the men show up at the villa; I can appreciate how Mrs. Wilkins and Mrs. Arbuthnot have been changed by their time there, but the men just basically show up at the end of the book and suddenly (cue swelling music) IT’S AMORE.
Everything is suddenly hunky-dory again between the estranged married couples, although Mr. Wilkins is still steeped in his miserly, ambulance-chasing mentality, and Mr. Arbuthnot originally came not to see his wife, but to make a grab, both personally and professionally, at Lady Caroline Dester the Flapper heiress.
This novel is so delightful that I was ready to book a flight to Italy for next spring.Some favorite passages:"Mr. Wilkins, a solicitor, encouraged thrift, except that branch of it which got into his food.
It was like the discovery of an entirely new joy.""She was having a violent reaction against beautiful clothes and the slavery they impose on one, her experience being that the instant one had got them they took one in hand and gave one no peace till they had been everywhere and been seen by everybody.
I don't think the power of a trip such as the one these four women took can be overestimated.
It's a pleasant story, but I think as women, as the primary (in most cases) caretakers of our homes and families, we all owe it to ourselves (and to our families) to take a trip like this, to go away by ourselves and rediscover ourselves.
That trip changed me, and I've wanted a repeat ever since (only this time, I'd like to take a month, as these women did!) This novel hit all of my happy places.
Non mi capitava di addormentarmi leggendo un libro dai tempi delle elementari. Potrei dire che sono stanca, che non dormo la notte, che ero così rilassata da abbandonarmi a me stessa. Oppure potrei semplicemente dire che è stata una noia mortale. L’unica delizia le descrizioni del giardino, uno splendido castello italiano in cui mi piacerebbe passare non un mese, ma tutta l’estate!A mai più Mrs von Armin. Due tentativi mi sembrano più che sufficienti.
The main setting is floral, a place almost out of time itself, an Eden in which the characters can shed their usual lives and allow themselves to be remade.The story is about four unhappy English ladies, not even acquaintances at the onset, who rent an Italian castle for the month of April, each desiring to take a break from her present unsatisfying circumstances.
At a deeper level it is a journey from sad self-absorption out of herself into a broader and more loving and accepting view of the world around them and especially of those with whom they usually live.
"Oh, but in a bitter wind to have nothing on and know there never will be anything on and you going to get colder and colder till at last you die of it—that's what it was like, living with somebody who didn't love one."That’s why Lotty Wilkins decides, one day, to use her savings to take holidays in a medieval castle in Italy, near the sea, and share the rent of this wonderful place with three other English women whom she meets them by newspaper classifieds.Of course, the castle, the view on the sea, the mountains around, the flowers of the gardens are amazing, beautiful, divine.
It's the story of four English women, Londoners, who are unhappy with their personal lives, especially with the romantic side.
They see an advertisement in a London paper for the April rental of a castle in an Italian fishing village and the magic begins.
The characters are wonderful, I especially liked Lotty and Rose, and the descriptions of the flowers and gardens surrounding the castle made the setting seem capable of changing the lives of the characters.
Change them it did, the magic happens and how it affected each one of them is what makes the story so enjoyable.
April is apparently the cruelest month, but my nomination would probably be those four weeks or so spanning the middle of October on up to Thanksgiving; I can't speak for anyone else, but for anybody on an academic calendar it's an interminably long period with not even a single three day weekend for some kind of brief respite, and Thanksgiving break is reached more or less in a state of exhaustion.
There's not much I feel like I can say about this novel, not that I feel much needs to be said; it's more or less how four British women, similar only in a vague but profound sense of dissatisfaction with their lives, on a whim rent a villa on the Italian coast for the titular month.
They, particularly two of them, do not want to be disturbed but the charm of the house and that of the other two ladies breaks down their barriers and they become loving people willing to take on all that that word connotes.
Enter this home in Italy and life, and of course things Italian like food and flowers and oh yes, the wine, start to change the attitudes and the love life of these women (well really the love life of only three of them!) It makes the ladies realize that their lives need that four letter word and how they do find it is the glory of the novel.
Both these women have their own reasons for wishing to spend a month away from London -- especially Scrap, who has grown weary of the unwanted company of gentlemen "grabbers" constantly vying for her attention.The midnight arrival of Lotty and Rose at the castle of San Salvatore in a downpour fragrant with the enticing aromas of wet earth and blossoms and accompanied by an umbrella-wielding servant lighting their way with a lantern, is rendered unforgettably by Von Arnim in beautiful prose.

