https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1668636.The_First_Sir_Percy
So...I read this as an online ebook in the days before I had high-speed internet. To read an ebook on dial-up is an exercise is patience, to say the least, and should give an idea of how enthralling it was. It's an action story, and the trials of the hero and heroine will be sure to wring your heart.
Directions at the bottom of this so-called "review".I loved this book, more than The Laughing Cavalier, I think.
If you have read this book all the way up to Chapter 9 and you are determined not to keep reading (I am not talking about this review - keep reading!), reconsider.
all that: to everyone who feels like that - Please keep reading the book, however much it "hurt" you and however much you hate reading about his being blind and helpless!
I loved it.I know, I know, why would you want a blind hero?
The First Sir PercyByBaroness OrczyThe First Sir Percy, the sequel to The Laughing Cavalier, by Baroness Orczy was first published in 1921.
I should have read The Laughing Cavalier first as I found the first chapters of the sequel a little difficult to follow.
However, this did not spoil my enjoyment of the novel.The First Sir Percy is set in the Netherlands in March 1624 “a torn land divided between loyalty for Maurice of Nassau and the Spanish invaders.“Fighting for the Maurice of Nassau is a man known to many as Diogenes, but whose real name is Sir Percy Blakeney.
I didn't know there were more Scarlet Pimpernel books! I grew up on the movie with Jane Seymour. This book is about his relative, (great grandfather maybe) with the same name and the same ability to hide his true abilities until it's too late for the villain. It took me a few chapters to get into it, but once I did, it was some splendid times.
Mostly, is this the Sir Percy from the Scarlet Pimpernel, or is it a predecessor of his?
This book IS about an ancestor (father or grandfather, I couldn't find that) of the Sir Percy Blakeney from The Scarlet Pimpernel.
(I wish she'd used a different name, that would've made things MUCH clearer.) Apparently, I should've read The Laughing Cavalier first, which would've made the first few chapters a bit clearer and faster to get engrossed in.
(I'd originally put the books on my list from -I guess- a published order, then when I went to mark it as "currently reading", I found out that it was the second book in chronological order.
Writing tip: if you're going to tell me that the hero of your novel is an ancestor of another hero, maybe don't send him on a daring adventure, childless. Because I knew Diogenes was going to father at least one child (a son, to carry on the family name, no less), I knew he wouldn't die even when all seemed hopeless. If, however, there were even a chance he had a child somewhere, the story would've been less predictable. That said, I still enjoyed it and would recommend it (after reading the Scarlet Pimpernel and the Laughing Cavalier first).
I haven finished a historical friction this fast for some time ,this novel is well written any reader should obtain an copy as soon as possible ,if that reader has enjoyed any of this writer other novels.
This prequel rivals 'The Elusive Pimpernel' for most dramatic/unexpected ending in the series thus far. Baroness Orczy was a genius at drawing out suspense. I read the final 5 chapters in no time.
I liked this book as much as I liked "The Scarlet Pimpernel".
I wish that I had read "The Laughing Cavalier" first though.
"The First Sir Percy" is about The Scarlet Pimpernels father or grandfather.
It was really good, but I'd recommend reading "The Laughing Cavalier" first.
I haven't read it, but it does come before "The First Sir Percy".
I am thinking about purchasing them from Amazon for the kindle.
(There is an app for an Iphone/Ipod touch that you can use if you do not have a kindle).
I'll let you know about the others that I read.
It picks up right where it left off...or 3 months later, but still a seamless transition.I love the way she writes scenes with characters making them seem one way and then later in the book she reveals what they were really doing.
So you never know if the character is really that stupid or drunk or if he's just pretending.
You hope he's pretending, but you can't be sure.I couldn't read this book fast enough.
I kept having to read ahead to calm my nerves so that I could slow myself down and enjoy every single sentence like it was the creamiest piece of chocolate in the box.
The writing in The First Sir Percy was much tighter than in The Laughing Cavalier, yet I didn't enjoy it quite as much.
This is probably due to the fact that Diogenes and Gilda spent much less screen time together.
Bring on the Scarlet Pimpernel!Oh, and just as a quick note, I recently learned that Emmuska Orczy did not learn English until she was fifteen, with it being the fourth language she learnt.
To have only learnt English at this age, and yet to write with such success I think is a great achievement for her.
The First Sir Percy is Baroness Emmuska Orczy's second adventure tale revolving around the enigmatic ancestor of the legendary Scarlet Pimpernel. I loved this book. It kept me guessing until the very end, which, believe me is hard to do! I greatly recommend it for anyone who enjoys classic spy novels and mystery.
A good read but predictable ending. The whole story does hinge on Gilda not fleeing the city before it was taken over... Knowing The enemy it was strategically a bad move but there would have been no story if it were otherwise.
This sequel to The Laughing Cavalier is a bit more melodramatic, if that is possible. It has a good, convoluted plot but most of the focus is on the formulaically evil villain while Sir Percy and his blushing bride Gilda are almost reduced to supporting characters. Still, it was a fun read.
I enjoyed reading this story very much. It wasn't easy to read because of the time period and language. I did enjoy the story though. The love story is sweet and yet you wonder if the Laughing Cavalier will prevail! He always does, though!!
This is a pre-quel to _The Scarlet Pimpernel_, the famous story about the daring Englishman who rescued French nobility from the guillotine and his beautiful French wife, who may or may not betray him. This novel is set in the Netherlands.
A continuation of "The Laughing Cavalier". It was a decent love story with some violence thrown in.
The Sacarlet Pimpernel's predecessor… Can't you see the resemblance between them?
GReat story - l;ooking forward to ready all the others!
Another precursor to "The Scarlet Pimpernel" - a really good story, but I'm more interested in the French Revolution than I am 17th century Holland.
The adventures of the Laughing Cavalier continue. So good!
