https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46437.Background_to_Danger
Eric Ambler is one of my favorite authors with good reason.
Even Ian Fleming called Ambler the inspiration for his James Bond series.
English journalist Kenton finds himself in hot water when he agrees to help a fellow European traveler smuggle some 'securities' out of Germany in the final days before World War II.
Before he knows it, Kenton is on the run, hunted by the police for murder and by a colorful assortment of characters, some sinister, others simply suspicious.
There is a reason why authors like Fleming and Alan Furst imitate him.
Ambler, who started writing these the 1930s, sets the tone for fast-paced, international intrigue.
In fact, that's a good question, whether Hitchcock ever used any of Ambler’s works for any of his movies.
He certainly could have.You don't get the characterization and depth in Ambler that you do in Greene or Le Carre, but you do get the fast-paced intrigue at a level similar to what we find currently in Alan Furst.
If you're looking for a fine read of intrigue set in the volatile Europe of the 1930s, you would have a hard time doing better than Ambler’s work.
However, the characters in "Background to Danger" were so intriguing and - oddly enough, warm - that I found myself sucked into the characters as much as the mystery.I've only given this four stars because, really, of my own personal tastes and lack of knowledge on the countries and foreign relationships the story deals with.
the story presents interesting circumstances that place our protagonists in situations where what would appear to be "wrong" is, perhaps, actually "right." This said, the story focuses on the mystery and the "messages" aren't overly apparent and really just a subtext for those wishing to seek them.This is a very interesting read and I'd be more than happy to read it again and partake of another Ambler adventure.
It turns out that his companion is also in his way to Austria, but is really worried that he will be stopped at the border and the valuable papers he is carrying with him will be confiscated.
They strike a deal: Kenton agrees to carry the papers with him across the border since he is relatively safe while carrying an American passport.
I should have been, but the papers turn out to contain military information of key importance to the Germans.
As usual, Ambler managed to lead the reader by the nose through the labyrinth of international spydom that he created.
This is a good, solid Ambler title.
Mi resta molto poco da leggere di Ambler.
Questa storia di spie scritta nel 1937 non ha perso alcuno smalto, grazie anche ai continui colpi di scena (forse un filo troppi?) e alla lucidità nell'analisi del sistema 'criminale' della grande finanza internazionale (a suo tempo gli procurò la fama di simpatizzante dell'Unione sovietica che ebbe poi difficoltà a scrollarsi di dosso).
Rispetto al solito l'azione è molto serrata e un po' ci perde la brillantezza dei dialoghi che sono, di norma, il punto di forza dei suoi racconti.
Non manca invece l'ironia che è il suo marchio di fabbrica.
The different locales, the over-arching conspiracy, the every-man protagonist who ends up in a situation that goes way over his head, and who has to rely on wit and courage to out-do the opposition--it's all here, but it lacks the verve and romance that Ambler achieved elsewhere.
The Europe that Ambler describes is bruised from warfare, yet still retains an innocence that overlooks the underlying tensions that remain.
It's a fascinating period, and Ambler wrote within it with a good eye for what people were thinking and feeling at the time.
Stranded with no money, Kenton jumps at the chance to earn a fee helping a refugee smuggle securities across the border; yet, he soon discovers that the documents he holds have far more than cash value - and that they could cost him his life.(Description from the publisher – per WorldCat – slightly edited.) In the United States, Uncommon Danger was published as Background to Danger.I didn't care for Ambler's first book.
Ambler, Eric. UNCOMMON DANGER. (1937). ****. In pre-WW-II Europe, Kenton, a free-lance journalist is in Nuremburg investigating a story about a top-level meeting of Nazi officers. He gets his story, then takes the time to join in on an organized card game at his hotel. In spite of knowing better, he plays until he loses his last mark. An acquaintance there offers to lend him 100 marks, and Kenton accepts. He boards a train to Vienna, where he has a friend who might be able to lend him more money
An acquaintance there offers to lend him 100 marks, and Kenton accepts.
On the train, he shares a compartment with a man who says he is an escaping Jew trying to get to Vienna with his money and valuable papers.
He offers Kenton 400 marks to take the papers across the border for him.
When Kenton gets to Vienna and to the designated hotel, he finds the man dead on the floor, with a knife sticking out of his stomace.
With this relatively trite start, Ambler takes on a thrilling ride around central Europe as Kenton is pursued by multi-national gangs of agents after the papers he has in his possession.
Eric Ambler was a precursor to John Le Carre and Robert Ludlum (says the jacket copy), and this novel is set in eastern Europe during the run-up to World War II, first published in 1937. It's a great story, urbane and literate, told in efficient, elegant prose, with a lot of historical interest due to its era and locale.
Great book. I love the spirit of hope and the determination to make a contribution for a better life on this planet—and the story is full of suspense, I like the way Ambler built his characters and love the his playful language.Definitely a recommendation from me
The bad guys are the international oil business, in this case Romanian, while the good guys are, ahem, the Soviet Government.Yep. Oh, it's well enough crafted, with danger and suspense and that film noir feel that is characteristic of Ambler and was perfected in his other early classics, The Coffin for Dimitrios and Epitaph for a Spy. But come on.He who has ears will sometimes hear what he wants to her, in keeping with his inclinations.
The real Russians that were loose in the West at the time when Ambler was writing this could never describe themselves to a Westerner as a "private Soviet citizen with interests in Switzerland" - every word an ideological crime.
Ein Roman der vor vielen Jahren die Leser zu Begeistern wusste, ist nicht schlechter geworden, nur weil ein paar Jahre ins Land gezogen sind.
Auf einer Zugfahrt von Nürnberg nach Linz begegnet er einem unbekannten Reisenden der ihn überraschenderweise bittet, seine Wertpapiere über den Zoll/die Grenze zu bringen.
Nun wird nicht nur von der Gendarmerie gesucht sondern auch von zwielichtigen Gestalten die grosses Interesse an den sogenannten "Wertpapieren" haben …Inhaltlich hat mich der Schriftsteller Eric Ambler damit überrascht, dass er die politische Situation dieser schwierigen Zeit deutlich spürbar mit einfliessen lässt.
Of course, the job goes sour, and Kenton is blamed for murder and entangled in a conspiracy involving Nazis, war-profiteering corporations and Soviet spies.
This novel gave me a mental image of something you might see in the middle of the night on TCM: a black-and-white film of sophisticated suspense directed by Alfred Hitchcock or Orson Welles, something filled with shadows and cigarette smoke.
This is the first Ambler novel I've read, and thanx to Vintage Black Lizard, one of my favorite book imprints, I have a bunch more to look forward to.
Although Dimitrios runs deeper and is probably the more accomplished book, this earlier example of Ambler's work is a lot more fun, with plenty of 1930s spy action, a few lovable characters and many touches of tongue-in-cheek humor.The political backstory -- a carefully plotted struggle involving Romania, Big Oil, the Soviet Union and fascist provocateurs -- is very deeply grounded, with a realism and detail that could have been ripped from the headlines of central Europe in the run-up to World War II.
The villains are rich capitalists and their agents; Ambler does get off a few rants on corporations as the hidden drivers of government agendas and national goals.Our English hero is helped by another Englishman along the way; the helper delivers an electrifying speech on the realities of life in continental Europe, away from England, ending with how he watched the Gestapo kick an old man to death on his own front stoop.
It made me proud to be a member of the Anglosphere, until I thought a little too much about the realities of life in England and English behavior overseas.All that being said, the book still gets 4 stars due to the excellent characters, the fine writing, the great sense of time and space.
Ambler's novels typically involve an Englishman traveling abroad who gets ensnared by accident or misadventure in an affair of espionage.
Of course, when he turns up at the rendezvous with the package to collect his money, he finds the mysterious traveler with a knife in his back, and we are off to the races.
Ambler had not yet really hit his stride with this novel; the action sometimes veers toward melodrama and there's a certain amount of moralizing about big-business machinations in a world careening toward war.
This is not yet the cool, jaded Ambler who taught us so much about the way the world works.
It's hard to believe that this was written over eighty years ago; as a gripping and gritty spy drama it is as fresh and pacily plotted as an contemporary work in the genre.
It's easy to see why Ambler was so highly regarded by the likes of Graham Greene and John Le Carre.
Uncommon Danger has a message, but it also has an action packed plot and is a pacy, entertaining read.
The English journalist Kenton winds up taking what he thinks are securities across the border into Austria for a man he meets on a train and winds up in the middle of a murder for which he is blamed, and chased by both the Soviets and the oil cabal until he begins to work with the Soviets.The first third of the book is slow moving and a little boring.
Kenton is an enjoyable character as is Zaleshoff, the Russian.
The book has a black and white feel like film noir and, on the whole, doesn't travel too well.
An interesting forerunner to modern spy novelists like LeCarre and Ludlum.
At his best, no one can touch Ambler for tense, page-turning thrills.
This is not his best.
There's too much action with too many characters towards the end, with whole chapters that read like a summary of a shooting script, robbing the story of the close viewpoint and intensely personal conflicts that makes the earlier parts go down so smoothly.
Still, Ambler handles all the threats and twists expertly.
And a topical threat for our times: an adversary who wants to stir up conflict with "a message of fear and suspicion and hatred for millions of peasants who believed that their God was good and just and that their destinies were in His keeping."
The story revolves around the difficulties of eventually delivering the papers.As with all Ambler's books set in pre-WWII Europe.
Its interesting to read the author's explanation of the current world politics when he has no knowledge of the coming war.
The plot of this story is actually pretty thin.
This must have been pretty heady stuff back then.This is not the best Amber I've read, but its readable.
"A Coffin for Dimetrios" is probably a better place to start with this author.
There is something that really appeals to me about pre-Cold War spy stories, and in particular these books of Ambler's that take place in the build-up to WWII.
That could be a bad thing, but here it makes it easier for the book to be fun, without the harrowing tension of somebody like Le Carre.
This one has a common feature in books featuring an amateur detective/spy— a main character you regularly want to slap for being so dumb— but that isn't really a flaw; it's a well-written and nicely paced spy story.
A comically, ridiculously convoluted plot involving espionage photos, oil drilling concessions, anti-Semitism (Jew-Communists), war propaganda, Russia, Rumania, Bessarabia, Germany, Austria, and Czechoslovakia.
The political intrigues are actually not so farfetched, but the action is.
Of course, there are countless absurd escapes from certain death.
I did enjoy it, despite the two stars, but it's not the best writing.
Some fun traipsing through the Böhmerwald (Bohemian Forest) as our hero Kenton tries to sneak across the Czech border.
I will absolutely read more Ambler, possibly all of him.
I would have given this three stars, but the main character was just so unlikeable.
The book should have ended on page 70, with him handing the documents over and taking the money - but no, he had to be a stubborn arse.
It's obvious Ambler hates everyone and everything - I don't think any European nation escapes his scorn.
The one likeable character is Russian, but that doesn't make for all the other entirely two-dimensional, evil Russians, Ro(u)manians, Brits, Germans...the list goes on.
I have a feeling that the coming of World War Two made Ambler's novels worse.
The story is fairly ludicrous (seedy journalist down on his luck stumbles into a plot in central Europe to install a nazi-compliant government in Romania, in cahoots with London businessman, and then takes part in resolving events with soviet spies) but the fast-paced narrative carries you forward, and there are some great cliff-hanging scenes.
The journalist hero is an ordinary man not a a James Bond figure, caught up in the machinations of great power politics and ruthless businessmen, just as ordinary people are.
In 1937 Austria, a journalist named Kenton is caught up in intrigue when a shady figure convinces him to hide some photographs which turn out to be Russian military secrets.
A fairly entertaining spy story, with lots of intrigue, twists and chases.
On the whole, this was an intelligent political thriller with a good bit of humor and a few interesting characters, but the book doesn’t live up to the hyperbolic blurb quotes on the cover which hooked me in the first place.
This is my first experience reading Ambler's work although I have seen the movie of the same name previously.
The movie roughly follows the outline of the plot in the book although it does take some liberties that significantly speeds up the story.
Eric Ambler is a founding father of the modern suspense novel, some would say the inventor of it.
I personally feel John Buchan deserves some credit in this respect also as he was penning these same types of stories in approximately the same time period.
Nevertheless Ambler's contribution is not to be taken lightly and I look forward to exploring more of his work.
My second read of this book ...
always fun to read Ambler, the godfather of espionage, and in one of the time periods so fascinating to me - just before the outbreak of WW2.
In this book, with some rather profound quotes about the hyper wealthy and their control of politics and workers, the good guys are a couple of Russian spies intent on recovering some photographs of hypothetical war plans that, if released to the Rumanians, would have driven them quickly into Hitler's arms.
The protagonist is a down-on-his-luck British journalist who is hired by a stranger to deliver a package across the frontier.

The plot is not quite as clerverly built as The Mask of Dimitrios. It feels at times as if Ambler rushed the writing: easy dialogues, inconsistencies in character building, laughable plot tricks. If this book was only a spy thriller, it would not be a very good one. But Ambler writes about history and politics. He writes about intelligence between the two world wars. He does so with a depth of sight, a precision in the details and a shrewdness which make the reading of this old spy novel a delight.
Early Ambler.
The signs of the later brilliance are there, and the novel is full of the atmosphere of foreign intrigue...darkened by the looming advance of WW II, but the plot is a little overly convoluted in relation to the pay-off of the revelations.
A must-read for Ambler fans, but not for those who are new to his work or for those with only a casual interest.
Intriguing worth looking at and thinking about as a literary precursor to post WW II film noir...the seeds for that dark view of the post war world are sown in the years leading up to the big conflict.
