https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/360562.Sharpe_s_Rifles
Since one of the Irishmen was a really big, tough sergeant, the high voice didn't fit my image of a red haired Lee Marvin well.Sharpe wasn't shown in a very good light for most of the book & the historical afterword basically said that "it didn't happen that way".
One of the things that I like about the Sharpe books is that they usually DID happen that way, with a few minor changes to put Sharpe into the action.
My library doesn't have books #4 & #5 in audio format, but I read the 5th, Sharpe's Prey some years ago.
The next audio book I have is #9, Sharpe's Gold.
Number 6 in the Sharpe series.This story takes place just after the French defeated the British at the battle of Corunna in 1809.
There are constant rearguard skirmishes which are taking a toll on the troops of the 95th.
In one skirmish the last, but one, officer is killed.
The last officer standing is Lt Richard Sharpe.
The Spanish troops are on a mission to plant the flag of Santiago in the French garrisoned town of Santiago de Compostela.
Falling instead for the dashing commander of the Spanish troops.This, once again, is a fast paced, rollicking adventure.
For Sharpe's Rifles has everything I've come to expect from a Sharpe story: over-the-top adventure (here a ragtag band of survivors of a famous retreat across Spain is teaming up with a small-but-elite cadre of the Spanish army commanded by the aforementioned Don Bias on a mission to bring a Holy McGuffin to the Cathedral at Santiago de Compostella and thus create a new legend to inspire the Spanish peasantry to rise up against the hated French invaders), internecine bickering, inspired combat tactics, cold chivalry among enemies, and all the fighting, drinking and swearing (if not, this time, the whoring) one might expect from a good piece of military fiction.Here, too, is an origin story of sorts, though its significance is lost to chronological readers who have not osmotically absorbed a certain level of meta-knowledge about the series -- for it is here that Sharpe and his gonna-be best friend, Sergeant Harper, meet for the first time.
I am reading the Sharpe books in chronological order and have just reached Sharpe's Rifles, the first meeting of Lt. Richard Sharpe and his best friend, Sgt. Harper, and I have to admit that the moment doesn't mean all that much to me.It's crafted to be one of those great moments in fiction, and I suppose it could have been if I had approached Sharpe's Rifles from a different direction.
Had I been reading the books in order of publication or even seen the occasional installment of the BBC's Sharpe movies, I think I would have been delighted to see the meeting of these men.
I've read many of his other series (Grail Quest, Saxon, Warlord, etc) but have not read any of the Sharpe's Rifles until now. Typically great fighting scenes, good characters, strong story. Brings the period to life. Now to find a bunch to acquire and read...eventually. 3 Stars
The naval voyage, espionage, and small military engagements of the previous books are great stories for the character to shine in but at his heart Sharpe is a soldier above all things, as Cornwell is fond of reminding us.This entry was definitely one of the most entertaining of the series so far, things start out explosive and disorienting and Sharpe and his men struggle violently to survive in war-torn Spain.
Той трябва да си извоюва уважението на мъжете и да успее да ги спаси, в една разкъсана от война и междуособици Испания.В сюблиминя момент на неговите проблеми (физическа разправа с бъдещия сержант Харпър), се появява една ярка фигура, която ще помогне много за формирането му като боен офицер - испанският кавалерист и идалго, майор Блас Вивар.
Вивар има малко хора, а трябва да изпълни съдбовно поръчение, което може да спаси родината му.
One of the best books so far in the series.
The superhero excesses from the Indian campaigns have been tempered and Richard Sharpe is caught in a more convincing posture as a freshman officer recently promoted from the ranks and struggling to impose his authority on a band of recalcitrant soldiers.
As usual, there is a romance element in the novel, and this too has been treated in a more convincing manner than previous conquests of our gallant swashbuckler.The historical background of this Spanish adventure is probably the less accurate so far, with much of the action around Santiago de Compostella coming from Cornwell imagination, but the plot is well paced and reserves some surprises.
I have actually read several of Bernard Cornwell's Sharpe series before, but it had been some time ago.
I was glad to re-immerse myself in a Napoleonic campaign of long ago.
Sharpe is a hero that comes across as a real person.
I am not sure how much of the book is historically accurate, but it rings true to me.Clearly, the campaign in Spain was a bloody one, and much of the book is devoted to military strategy and the nuances of battle.
Some might find all that a bit much, but it is certainly my cup of tea.I gotta go back and re-read some of these, and find some new ones besides.
Cornwell owns the Peninsular War from a fictional standpoint. I am reading Esdaile's history of this campaign and Sharpe's Rifles rings true from start to finish. While this is not in the same league as the Aubrey/Maturin novels (but then no other books are), Sharpe's Rifles is a quick, gripping read.
My first introduction to Richard Sharpe, soldier & reluctant officer.
This is the book that tells how Sharpe ended up as the Leader of his Rifle contingent.
I know little of the battles in this era (1809) between Britain & France or Spain & France, so always interesting to me to learn something new.
Cornwell definitely paints the gritty picture of difficult marches & bloody battles with the weaponry of the day.
The relationship between Sharpe & Don Blas Vivar was particularly good and helps to evolve Sharpe's character & growth as an officer/leader.
I have really enjoyed this fantastic series by Bernard Cornwell, but this novel is, if not the most intricately plotted, saturated with battle after battle between Sharpe and his Rifles and the pursuing French hordes invading Spain in 1809.
In fact I would say that every second chapter has some form of fight, conflict or attack that leaves the haggard main character, Richard Sharpe, just a little more haggard each time.
Now, as I said, once the smoke of the last musket blast clears, the plot isn't terribly complex, but war and the period in which this novel takes place wasn't always either; it was governed by the simple concept of "kill or be killed", and Richard Sharpe is one hell of a good soldier.
Sharpe. He's brought up from the ranks. Here's where he forms his posse. Also, attends a battle in Santiago de Compostela.Damage: Severe beating by one of his own menLadies Banged: 1, minister's niece who ends up snubbing him (if you know the series, this is no spoiler)Proper Officer Yet?: No.
More swashbuckling derring do from Lieutenant Richard Sharpe, do like a man in uniform though Sharpe's sounds like it should be thrown in the rag bag.The action has moved to Spain and the peninsular war, read books which mention the Napoleonic wars but this is a chance to get to grips with who fought where and when. Already got the next in the series on the shelf to read.
Šārps pēc dienesta Indijā, nejaušas dalības Trafalgaras kaujā un Kopenhāgenas aplenkšanas beidzot nonāk Spānijā (un Portugālē), kur notiek lielākā daļa no tālākās sērijas notikumiem.
Pēc sarakstīšanas gada (1988.g.) šī savukārt ir krietni agrāka grāmata, bet, salīdzinot ar citiem Spānijas romāniem, ne pavisam agrīna.
:) Subjektīvi man šis darbs neiepatikās tik labi kā citi, jo: pirmkārt, salīdzinot ar vēlāk rakstītajiem Indijas u.c. darbiem, Šārpa tēls vēl nav izstrādāts tik spilgts un arī notikumu izklāsts ir mazliet fragmentārs un brīžiem aprauts.
Arī galvenais sievietes -spāņu partizānu vadītājas tēls filmā ir par kārtu spilgtāks nekā grāmatā atrodamā dāma no angļu metodistu ģimenes.
Oddei, ho aspettato tanto per iniziare questa saga del mio amico Bernie, ma non ne sono rimasta entusiasta come immaginavo. Posto che secondo me Cornwell esprime il suo massimo quando ambienta le sue storie nel Medioevo, qui il problema è che non mi sono appassionata al personaggio di Richard Sharpe.
I liked the historical perspective on the Peninsular War as it is a time that I have little to no knowledge of however the writing itself was fairly lackluster. The characters did have some actual development but the seeming need of the author to always include a female character in a war setting makes other interactions less likely.
Set during the Napoleonic Wars, Sharpe's Rifles is the story of soldier Richard Sharpe.
But Sharpe's Rifles is also a rousing adventure story, with plot twists that take you straight to the end, loads of descriptions, and even a bit of romance.
Highly researched, the book is chock-full of historical detail, which I love, since it puts you right into the period.But the best part is the self-doubting Sharpe, soldier extraordinaire, and a man who's pulled himself up by his bootstraps at a time it was almost impossible to do so.
Sharpe's Rifles is part of a series, so I have a lot more books to read to find out what happens to him.
‘Sharpe’s Rifles’ is centred on the mainly fictional account of events in 1809 after a small expeditionary army sent to Spain in 1809 to support the Spanish and to cut off the invading French Army's supply lines.
The story opens when the British army is forced to retreat and Lieutenant Sharpe finds himself for the first time in charge of a unit of his Rifle regiment.
They find themselves cut off from the main army and the soldiers are reluctant to take orders from someone of their own class.
Also, the book does lean more to fiction than many other books in the series.
I watched the mini series first, and the book is way more intense and I wasn't even sure I liked Sharpe at all 1/2 way through the book.
But that's character development for you.
come on!) but mostly he manages to sneak in interesting little facts like the English didn't smoke cigarettes, they only had little clay pipes.
There's plenty of swashbuckling just like the mini series, but the books are a little more swash and a little less buckle if you get my drift.
The tv series really softened up the characters and the situation.
I first met Richard Cornwell's books when I read his Arthurian series, and I've yet to read one of his books I didn't enjoy.
I am working my way through the Sharpe series in chronological order and have enjoyed every one.This book was written late in the series to provide an introduction to Sharpe and his Rifles, mainly to explain the relationship Sharpe forges here with his men and his brilliant Irish sergeant.
The battle scenes are written with clarity and a great feel for action.
Cornwell writes the best battle scenes from a variety of time periods -- from the shield wall of medieval England to the Napoleonic wars.I look forward to reading Sharpe's Havoc, the next in the series.
This book is a very fast read that you could finish in a day or two. The story is action packed and takes a turn when you are least expecting it. Sharpe and Harper's relationship development throughout the story is full of bumps along the road. Yet it flowers into a solid friendship that they both benefit from. This story follows how sharp being thrown into a uncomfortable position manages to make it work and earn the respect from his fellow soldiers.
Though the beginning is slow and too detailed for my taste, the book provides a fascinating look into the routine of the English regiment during Napoleonic Wars. Sharpe's character evolves with the plot movement, and in a way his journey through French occupied Spain is his rite of passage: he grows up to become a leader of his men.
Cornwell is certainly the master of historical fiction. With Sharpe he gives us an eye witness to some of history's most interesting battles. The narrator of this series is superb, giving life to the events as they unfold. We are listening to this series on our four month road trip and enjoying every minute. A great series!
Ok, so I wouldn't have read this series if my son hadn't been so enthusiastic about it. Sharpe is a military antihero in the British Army through part of the hundred year's war. Its sort of Horatio Hornblower on land. Love the adventures, loved the insubordination, learned a lot about the why's of the war. Lot of books in this series, this one's one of the best.
Fast-paced action that felt historically accurate. Interesting characters with believable motivations. This is the book upon which the first episode of the Sean Bean series was based, more or less. I'm looking forward to reading more.
If you like historical novels or adventure stories, these are good ones to add to your reading list.
For both the TV show and the books, it's a good one to try if you've enjoyed the Horatio Hornblower stories or the Aubrey and Maturin books (the Master and Commander series).
Just land adventures as opposed to ones at sea.Story Comments: There's a good bit of growth for Sharpe in this one.
Which is fine, I suppose, except I really like the Irish characters (and their actors) in the TV series, and a higher voice just didn't work with what I had in my head, or even in the text.
Apart from the fact that Sharpe should have been blond, like Sean!
Great hook. There's something about the Napoleonic wars that stirs the blood. Sharpe's Rifles is like the Hornblower series, but on land. Bullseye if you like fast-paced action stories.
Lieutenant Sharpe, has to lead men who resent him to the safety of the British lines.
