https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1296415.Mouse_Paint
Our second Ellen Stoll Walsh book, it was also in our Kindergarten basics box. An engaging story about some mice playing with paints and trying to stay away from a cat at the same time. Walsh's adorable illustrations come to life again in this book. A good level 1 reading book for beginner's, but also enjoyed very much by my 2 yr old twins. A book even the parents can enjoy.
Three white mice find paint jars and see what happens when they take a dip. What is even more fascinating is what happens when they start mixing those colors. This is a fun way to teach children primary and secondary colors. Watch out for that cat!
A good book to teach primary and secondary colors. Mice climb into jars of paint and then make puddles of color on the ground.I've read this book so many times to my daughter we both have it nearly memorized.
A book that introduces the concept of mixing colors to make other colors. I don't like the constant insistence in our media to cast cats as villains in our culture, but I like the way it was just presented as a gentle fact that cats chase mice in this book.
Picked this up from the goodwill recently and thought it was cute. It will teach the kids about mixing colors and it's just a cute story overall I like it.
It is a concept book. It teaches children about primary and secondary colors. It is a very simple story and using very simple sentences, good for younger children.
“Mouse Paint,” is a wonderful concept book to teach children about primary and secondary colors.
The story is about three white mice standing on a white piece of paper camouflaging themselves so that cat won’t see them.
One day, the cat takes a nap and the three little mice discover three jars of paint and climb right in.
Now one mouse is red, one is blue, and one is yellow (the three primary colors).
The story ends with the three mice cleaning themselves off in the cat’s water dish and painting the paper instead.
This story is short and sweet and a great way to introduce primary and secondary colors.
A simple way to teach primary colors and color mixing.
Simple.
And I like the illustration technique.7/20/15 Used in Movement storytime.
They loved seeing the colors emerge after the mice mixed them.
As I read, I had them call out the colors to me to keep them involved and "test" their knowledge.
The only downside to this book--I thought we had a BIG copy, and I couldn't find one.
But the kids loved it anyway.
They liked seeing the color changes.
And I had them telling me the colors.
Best book of the 3 today.3/19/18 Used in Movement again.
This playful, lucidly-written fantasy about three mice will entertain and amuse young readers while introducing them to a bit of color theory.
In the story, three white mice discover three pots of paint on the white paper where they live.
They first dive into the paint to color themselves, then splash in paint puddles and discover that primary colors, when combined, make new colors.
Finally, they wash themselves clean (in the cat's water bowl) and paint the paper with all the available colors -- except for a section of white where they can hide from the cat.This story is probably best suited for babies and toddlers, but its humor will also appeal to the kindergarten and early-elementary ages.
I like this book because of its simplicity, sometimes there are some concept books who are good teaching a subject but are way to complex so what is good about this book is that it uses white mice as the main focus and then has them dip in and mix paint to make new shades of colors.LE: After the story you can take the children to the art center where you will have paper and finger paint ready for them.
you can have several circles on the paper that have the name of the color written under it and then with the children you can start to fill in the circles with the paint and mix colors to make new shades.
This is a new book for my 3 year old's repertoire. I liked that it taught her more about colors and that it encouraged interaction between the two of us while we read it. It could have been a bit more FUN for my taste but she has requested it three nights in a row so who am I to argue!
This is a great book to have children read when teaching them about color. Kids and parents will both appreciate this story.
Who doesn't love these crazy mice? They are a simple way to introduce even very young children to the joy of colors, identifying them as well as mixing and matching them.
When the cat was asleep, they noticed paint jars.
They decided to jump into the jars of paint and dance in the paint puddles.
They notice that the puddles changed colors because their feet mixed it up.
They washed themselves off to become white again and decided to paint on paper instead to create the newfound colors.
Response-Mouse Paint is a fun, informational book of how mixing 2 colors creates a new color (ex.
I believe it is an introduction to mixing colors that some younger children may not understand yet.
It would be a good book that an art teacher could read to his/her younger students.
Mouse PaintPintura de ratonBook Level: 2.2Mouse Paint is a story about three white mice who decide to climb into some paint jars and have some fun while the cat is napping.Genre: Picture bookMentor writing text:Ideas – The writing in the text gives specific details of how the colors change to make a new color.
It has a simple sentence structure that uses, comma’s and quotation marks.
Classroom integration – This would be a great book to introduce the use of quotation marks.
It could also be used to introduce primary and secondary colors into an art project where students mix there own paint and color in white mice.
A classic storytime read for a theme on Colors. Very simple tale of three mice who find three jars of paint and find out what happens when they start splashing in the puddles. It made for a very participatory storytime, with the kids working out what colors came next, how they mixed together, etc. Tons of craft activities can go with this too - just search online. Several have the kids mixing paints themselves - sounds like fun but too messy for our storytime area unfortunately! Still a good read for the preschool set.
This is a book about colors. Three mice get into some paint and then start to mix the colors and they make new colors! This is a good book to do with an ART activity. Teaching the children about the colors and which colors mix together to make other colors. The kids can use paint to mix colors and create the other colors that are in the book. The pictures in this book are cute and simple which I like. It is a good little story for young readers and can be used for a fun art activity.
Children are attracted to colorful pictures. They like stories being told with animals and mess! This book is a combination of all three. I read the big book version of this book and I absolutely loved it. They mix colors to make other colors but are sneaky with the cat that they still left just a little bit of white so the cat would not find them. It is very cute and capturing with the colors and mixtures. Silly, and perfect for children 36-48 months or even younger!
Great for ages 1 to 3 years old. We actually read this in preschool and they loved this book along with the craft we did with them. There's white mice in this book that jump into what they thought was mouse paint and they discover along the way that certain colors mixed together make other colors. Yellow and Red = OrangeBlue and Red = PurpleYellow and Blue = Green Great introduction for toddlers to learn about primary colors and what colors make other colors.
Mouse Paint takes a simple lesson on mixing primary colors and blends it into the story of three white mice. The pictures match the story and the plot is very predictable so you can ask students to infer what they think will happen next thought the reading. I would also include the book in an art center.
This is a book that would help children learn what color mixed together make. The book is about three mice would get into the paint. While they are painted their colors, they step in puddles of different colors and make all new colors. Overall this book would be helpful teaching children color combinations.
Walsh takes the reader on an adventure with three creative & curious white mice. Taking a detour of hiding from the cat on white paper, the three white mice begin experimenting with red, yellow, and blue paint. The reader learns about primary and secondary colors as the mice play, then conveniently clean themselves in the cat's water dish.
Both parents and children alike will appreciate this lighthearted presentation of a lesson in color. The illustrations have bold colors and just the right simplicity for the storyline. This book is a real charmer that’s great fun as well as informative for children. My son love and fascinated with the colors, and how they can create new colors by mixing.
This book was written to teach kids about words of color and mixing colors. It is great book for introducing children to the science of color, and it gives various idea for art activities. This illustration is simple and clear shown colors. The children will love this book because of cute mice and informative story.
Mouse Paint is about three small mice who get into some paints while on a break from hiding from a cat. The story is cute, clever, and well illustrated. It is relatively short and has few words on each page to keep little minds captivated. This is a great book to teach art and color concepts, particularly primary and secondary colors. Mouse Paint is a book every young artist should read.
These mice are hiding from the cat on white paper. One day while the cat sleeps they began their amazing painting adventure. Using three colors red, blue, and yellow these mice explore all the patterns and colors made. They mix colors and make different colors. This book is fun to read and makes great discussion book for younger children. Ask them what color will they make now?
This book is fun for both adults and kids! One day, 3 white mice find 3 jars of paint: red, yellow, and blue. They decide to go in the paint to see what happens. Then, they start mixing colors- making their secondary colors. This would be a fun book to read to children in a classroom, then do an activity with them about primary and secondary colors.
I liked the bright colors in this book. It would be really good to use when teaching about primary colors and secondary colors. I like the illustrations and how they were brightly colored. I like the way the mice mixed the colors to create new ones. I could use this story to lead a small group activity that involves painting and mixing colors.
A cute story about three white mice that stayed on a piece of white paper to prevent the cat from finding . Eventually the cat falls asleep and the mice were able to wander around and discovered what they thought to be mouse paint. An excellent book to use when teaching colors and how two colors can be mixed to create another.
This is a great book to read when you are teaching children about colors. It shows what happens when you mix colors and what they turn into. It is a fun and colorful book that children will enjoy. After you read the book you can do an activity where the children mix colors to make other colors.
