https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35066358-the-first-fifteen-lives-of-harry-august
Very very Clever! The first half was pretty solid but after that halfway point it took a turn to AWESOME.
I'm clearly missing something here (look at all the rave reviews!), but man, it was such a chore to get through this.
At one point, the author used the term "glacial sluggishness" to describe something-or-other, and that strikes me as the perfect description for the pace and action in this book.
I felt like I was always a step behind on the science and logic (not sure if this is the book's fault for not explaining things thoroughly enough or mine for not having a very scientific brain).
Ugh. I was tired of reading it, and now I'm tired of reviewing it.
“This thing you carry inside you, I don’t know what it is. I don’t know where you got it. But Harry, the past is the past. You are alive today. That is all that matters. You must remember, because it is who you are, but as it is who you are, you must never, ever regret. To regret your past is to regret your soul.”  This book is incredible. And I have Mike to blamethank.Of course, it doesn't hurt that I keep picturing the main character as Eddie Redmayne.Anyone who knows me will know that this i
The hype is real.This book is about a man who has to relive his life over and over and over, seemingly without end.
To relive one's life is nightmarish indeed.This book explores that concept with exceptional depth and reality.
The despair of existence, the fact that one has to relive life after life, finding meaning in each, and then losing it.
The writing aside, this book moves at the pace of a snail with a broken leg (I know that snails don't have legs, but isn't that the cutest imagery ever?).
When a little girl warns Harry on his eleventh death bed that the end of the world is coming sooner with each cycle, Harry goes on the offensive.
I was 30% of the way through the book by the time the little girl showed up.
Harry being reborn as himself in the same point in history every time reminds me of reading the same Choose Your Own Adventure book over and over without being able to keep your thumb at the previous choice so you can go back.
I even think this would be a great movie!I love the premise and I really wasn't expecting this.
This Sci-Fi/Thriller really intrigued me but at the same time, some parts were a bit slow.
It makes sense if you think that we're literally talking about 15 lives though.
A lot will happen but the back and forth was a bit much sometimes.Overall I totally recommend it if the summary interests you!**SMALL SPOILER ** (not really in my opinion but just in case...)I was a little disappointed that there was so many other kalachakra, anyone else?
Wow, whatever I was expecting, it definitely wasn't this. It's historical, it's science fictional, it's a spy novel, it's a long episode of DW sans the time & space travel, it's a spiteful letter of twisted friendships and vengeance. WHAT DOESN'T HAPPEN IN THIS BOOK?!
Since clearly the suicide route doesn't solve his problem, he gets down to the business of trying to figure out how to best live his life lives.One of the beauties of Harry's repeated lives is that it lets us explore how many different directions this type of time travel could go, and all the wrinkles that would develop: How much can you gamble on sure things and get away with it?
Should you even try?In his fourth life Harry tries sharing his secret with others and ends up tangling with people who want to use his knowledge of future events for their own purposes.
Reading this one was an absolute chore, but I just couldn't quit because I hate quitting books.
I thought it was this terrible book, a cure for insomnia, until I got on here and saw all the 5 star reviews.
It's the story of a type of person that lives their lives over and over after their death, no matter how they die, and what happens when someone in the group attempts to change the world, which is a big no-no.
A great idea for a story, but really rambled too much for me.
Kind of like this review.
Whenever Harry relives a section of his life he tries hard to do his best to improve his lot.
But I forget that this book is very much beloved by the Goodreads reviewing community.
Maybe I've this reaction because I recently watched Source Code, a sci fi movie with the same flaws as this book.The reason I'm not delving into the fabric itself of the story is that you can't go into details in this case without getting spoilery.
This book is subpar IMHO, and though 3 stars is nothing to sneer at, the story doesn't warrant a greater score.
That’s not the mark of a good story, though.The 'plot', if you will (and if I sound like I'm speaking in a pretentious poncy way, it's because I've been infected by the style in which this narrative was composed...ahem):Harry (the narrator) is one of many who live their natural life, only to find that following death, they are reborn in the same life, to start all over again.
Turn the page - scene over - characters gone - why did I read it?What bothers me most is that this book was promoted as a time travel story.
Take any good SF story that creates an interesting premise and after you finish it you daydream about the situation and think 'wouldn't it be cool if they did this' or 'maybe if the author went in this direction they could have explored this aspect a little more'.
And while it is obvious that Claire is not a scientist and the real concepts were not explained too scientifically, the author managed to tread the line of having science in a story that was entirely credible to a scientist.
Another aspect that I admire is that the author did not fall into a most obvious trap.
Harry August is compelling, relatable, and a guy I loved to root for throughout the entire read.
I do plan on reading Dark Matter, but this book nicely sated my hunger for the alternate timeline genre (which I’m sure I just made up).7.
The Differences There’s something unique about this story, and I think its individuality is due to the titular character.
There’s concepts that may sound similar, but Harry August’s journey is different enough that I never felt as if I were retreading old ground.
It’s so easy for science fiction and fantasy novels to put their cool concepts in the front of the story and have the character work suffer.
As much as it pains me to say, The First Fifteen Lives of Harry August and me have to part ways at 51% for now.
Forget the blurb which promises you an exciting, fast-paced journey because that couldn't be further from what The First Fifteen Lives of Harry August is about : indeed it reads more like a character study, and that's okay, I mean, I do like those sometimes, but for that I need to believe in the main character's complexity.
See you someday, Harry, when you grow a personality (and go to the point, damn it!).
Whoever Claire North really is, she (or he) demonstrates a flair for literary magic here, coupled with an honest love for the genre.At its roots, this is a hard science fiction novel, one that deals with the complexities and paradoxes of time travel, as well as the intellectual and political drivers of scientific progress.
There's a sad inevitability to his life, in that no matter what he does he will always die to begin again, but there's also a wondrous sort of potential in how he chooses to live each new life.Just beneath that literary surface, nurtured by those genre roots, is the heart of the story.
WOW WOW WOW! Absolutely LOVED this! My mind is spinning right now.
Así, Harry dedicará sus próximas vidas a intentar investigar y detener el proceso que amenaza con el apocalipsis de la Tierra apresuradamente, adelantando los acontecimientos en la historia tal y como la conocemos.Claire North (también conocida como Kate Griffin o Catherin Webb) nos presenta un relato de ciencia ficción compuesto por la superposición de las diversas vidas del protagonista de forma no lineal, dosificando la información y dotando la lectura de una constante intriga.
(I can't check my spelling on that one because, as I said, the husband is currently absorbed.) What I thought might be a book about his lives, and the lives of others like him, quickly becomes an intricate action/drama story.
I haven't read a book quite like this, with this premise and this sort of forward-momentum.
I leave you with an excerpt from the publisher's web site: "No matter what he does or the decisions he makes, when death comes, Harry always returns to where he began, a child with all the knowledge of a life he has already lived a dozen times before.
More importantly, I didn't even have to stew over it, because the writing was as clear as crystal despite the inherent risk of an inherently complex tale falling apart due to being told out of order.Of course, this was an absolutely fantastic novel.
As it is, I'm pretty sure this novel will stand the test of time, and if there is any justice in the world, people will still be mimicking or talking about it 20 years from now.Yes. It is that good.Truly excellent depth and exploration of both story and character, and a premise that is superior to almost any time travel tale I've ever read.
However, I ended up just mildly enjoying it, thus the 3 star rating.Harry August is a "kalachakra", a person who relives their life from birth to death multiple times, while keeping the memories and knowledge gathered during their previous lives.
However, the book is titled "The First Fifteen Lives of Harry August", which might not be such a long time when compared with other kalachakras.
Furthermore, what probably contributed significantly to my lack of enthusiasm was that the setting and the time period are already not my favorite.On the plus side, both Harry and Vincent are well-developed characters, and their relationship is the highlight of this novel.
A primeira metade do livro é usada principalmente para nos situar em como funciona o esquema das vidas do Harry e mostrar quem ele é.
A outra metade é para resolver o conflito principal do livro que é proposto logo no início: o mundo está acabando e o Harry precisa ajudar a salva-lo.Eu adorei seguir o Harry por todas as suas primeiras quinze vidas e o seguiria por muitas mais ainda.
Isso traz um grau elevado de credibilidade para o personagem à medida que as suas vidas vão passando.Esse livro é para quem está procurando algo diferente, inteligente e divertido.
Added 8/3/2018: Here is a really great interview with the author (real name: Catherine Webb) from a podcast I enjoy. Now back to your regularly scheduled review from 2015.~~~ "The world is ending. The message has come down from child to adult, child to adult, passed back down generations from a thousand years forward in time. The world is ending and we cannot prevent it. So now it's up to you." Typically this would be the moment when our hero-protagonist would leap into action and save the day.
The message has come down from child to adult, child to adult, passed back down generations from a thousand years forward in time.
Like most people who are 78 and in the late stages of cancer he died and the book ended thereOr would have if Harry was not a kalachakra.
We just can't handle the hassle." Which sadly means no killing off Hitler (a rule that reminded me of the awesome short story Wikihistory).This book was an excellent blend of the retelling Harry's first fifteen lives (as the title suggests), exploring the culture and characters of the kalachakra, and, in the last, half, trying to save the world.
ACTUAL RATING: 4.75 Holy Fuck!   “The most it ever seems we know how to do with time, is to waste it.”       Predestination (Without the Incest) meets Time traveler’s wife (without the romance) add the thrill of Shutter Island  I have been dying to read this ever since I had the premise from  Peruse Project’s Youtube Channel  (Here), I wasn’t sure if I would have ever come across the physical book but when it magically appeared on a thrift shop I had to pick it up.   “There is no loss, if you c
We follow his life as he goes on through the ups and downs that is life until his death...He is reincarnated or time starts all over again for him but weirdly he has all the memories and remembers everything, literally every detail from his previous life.
The whole book is a big plot-twist, with every decision the character makes affecting something big in the coming pages and it was thrilling to witness this come to play.
The most it ever seems we know how to do with time is to waste it.” 
For the first half we seem to aimlessly jump through Harry's various first lives, which made me personally feel even more distanced from the story and its characters.- While the whole concept for the story had lots of potential, it ultimately lost itself in utterly boring discussions of philosophy and science.- The plot itself didn't develop for quite some time and in the end it resolved in such an unsatisfactory way that I was actually a little angry that I wasted so much time on this book.During my first time trying to read this, I thought it just wasn't the right time for me to read it and put it on hold (see my first review down below), but as it turns out it's never the right time to read this, because it's just a bad book.
Perhaps simply because of the first-person narration, I developed much more of a fondness for Harry August and his multiple life stories than I ever did for Ursula Todd.“I am not one Harry August but many, a mind flicking from parallel life to parallel life...when I die, the world carries on without me, altered by my deeds, marked by my presence.”Harry is a kalachakra (“time-wheel” in Tibetan Buddhism) or ouroboran – a figure who keeps coming back around in what looks to be an endless cycle of rebirths.
But the end of the world is getting faster.” In general, I don’t really read books that could be classed as fantasy or dystopian sci fi, but I was glad I made an exception for this literary take on the genre.
L’idea dei loop apre la porta al paradosso più bello di un libro sul viaggio nel tempo – perché Harry August è a tutti gli effetti un viaggiatore temporale; come in effetti lo siamo tutti noi, con la differenza che noi viaggiamo solo in avanti, mentre August quando arriva alla fine torna sempre indietro.L’infinito viene racchiuso in una serie progressiva di loop.
Un ipertesto sobrio, minimale, insomma.La struttura narrativa è eccellente, incastrando il racconto delle prime quindici vite di Harry August in modo non lineare, ma seguendo un ordine di senso: ogni aneddoto raccontato è linkato al precedente e al successivo per ragioni logiche, suggerendo un’idea di simultaneità, anche questa volta ipertestuale.Le atmosfere urban fantasy prendono una piega fantascientifica, concedendosi qualche lazzo steampunk.
Great book.
Harry is a great character and protagonist.
I like that he is flawed and makes mistakes.
Really liked the complexity and dynamic of the relationship he had with the antagonist as well.
Also really loved all the flashbacks of past lives and stories that others like Harry had passed down through the ages.Can't say too much else without spoiling anything, but I do look forward to others reading it so we can discuss the ending which I have a few questions about.
I also want to know who Claire North really is, so I can read more of her/his books.
I don't know why I doubted this book.Loved everything about it!
Though I would say that while death is not an issue, the manner of it most certainly is, and there are quite a few scenes of suffering or torture that I could have done without.Unlike Atkinson, who writes linearly with brief hitches, Claire North abandons chronological sequence entirely for long stretches of the book.
Rather than illustrate any of these kaleidoscopic interludes, however, I prefer to show the quality of her prose from an extended paragraph early in the book, which both establishes the place and time, and the personal anguish of a young boy forced to confront the same tragedy again and again:There is a medical study in this phenomenon, but my adopted mother never quite dies upon the same day in each life she lives.
I think she's a Time Lord.Reading 'The First Fifteen Lives of Harry August' is like stepping into a river of gold, but as the philosopher says, "No man ever steps in the same river twice, for it's not the same river and he's not the same man." And this, when all's said and done simplifies what is a truly magnificent story.The Cronus Club is a myriad of wandering souls, trickling messages down from the future by means of child to dying adult, child to adult, from a thousand years forward in time, amplifying it down the generations, so that it's entirely possible for events that took place in 2003 to have implications for those people living in, say, 1919.
This hardcover is numbered 147 of 200 produced and is signed by Claire North.
