https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41701.The_Mediterranean_Caper
Fuck this book with a spiked baseball bat soaked in concentrated lime juice.Our hero Dirk Pitt slaps a crying woman because she's still sad over the death of her husband.
Fucks her.All this within six minutes of meeting this woman.34 pages in and I'm done with this bullshit.
In summation: I would rather bathe in roadkill and swim in shark infested water than read another page of this book.
No matter how hard I try, I cannot get behind a hero who thinks it's okay to lay his hands on a woman in anger, and especially not one who does so in an attempt to stop her from crying over a dead loved one.Final Judgment: Toilet paper.
I suppose I've been lucky not to read anything before that this blatantly objectifies females, and even more lucky not to be part of a generation that found this kind of attitude normal.
His attitude towards women in general was more chauvinist than anything I've read, maybe ever.
Here, the main point seemed to be the action, and the mystery was just a prop.Still, I'm not really sure what to expect from this type of book, so I might try one of the later Pitt novels before I write the series off - if I can get past the whole attitude towards women.
Un librito de aventuras que se ha dejado leer, pero no me ha entusiasmado.
El héroe de la novela, el mayor Dirk Pitt, resulta plano, unidimensional: un macho de otros tiempos que lo tiene fácil para seducir a las heroínas y que sale triunfante de sus difíciles peripecias.
De los libros de Clive Cussler que he leído, me resultaron más entretenidas otras dos lecturas: Sahara y Muerte blanca.Peligro en el Mediterráneo fue uno de los primeros de la serie de Dirk Pitt, que se puede leer de forma independiente del orden cronológico.
Compruebo en Goodreads que fue publicado por primera vez en 1973.
A flashy, invigorating and imaginative thriller, The Mediterranean Caper is an incredible, vivid story with great characters and a totally unique plot.
The comparison is an apt one, especially when it comes to the first two novels in the series The The Mediterranean Caper Dirk Pitt 2 and Iceberg Dirk Pitt 3.In the same way that Fleming used Bond as a way to comment on the ways in which masculinity could and should be defined, Cussler defines what is masculine through the opinions, actions and attitudes of one Dirk Pitt.
For example, in Caper, Pitt meets a women who has been mourning the passing of her husband for a number of years and decides the thing she needs to help her get over his death is to find someone new to make love to.
I don't mind some objectionable items but mistreatment of women is one thing I can't abide.
Thankfully there was only a small amount of this at the beginning.
I am at a loss as to why authors feel that a misogynistic attitude is a must in action books.
Dirk Pitt is a dick!
This shows in his cavalier and demeaning attitude toward women and in his over the top arrogance.
The book was long on action and short on believable plot.
Needless to say, Dirk Pitt rises up and saves the day.
I am not sure I will read more of this drivel.
(hide spoiler)]Of course, it must be remembered that this was written in the days when an appropriate response to an attack on a US Air Base has our intrepid hero quip “Maybe it’s an irate Greek farmer who’s tired of our jets scaring his goats.” And not be in a terrible rush to investigate.
I get the whole ‘rough around the edges’ vibe, and its part of what I love about the character in later books, but in this one it is overdone and leaves a bitter taste.It’s strange for me.
This book contains a recurring character in Cussler's work named Dirk Pitt, which is a name so contrived I can't believe a human being let it escape his thought bank and committed it to paper.
The Dirk Pitt description before the novel even starts reads as if 100 cliches of heroes were written on little pieces of paper, thrown into a hat, and then the author picked out 10 at random.
Dirk Pitt is on a beach and sees a beautiful blonde woman sitting near the surf.
Turns out, Dirk Pitt is not so much a hero as he is a douche.
Second character Bruno von Till's niece a widow Teri and finally Darius the monster.Awesome engineering feats behind the smuggling of heroin through Minerva Lines freighter and the sunken cave of the villain are unexpected revelations for me.Two escapades of Dirk Pitt are worth mentioning and has the edge of the seat thrilling experience, one is escaping from the clutches of Bruno von Till's labyrinth and another from the deserted Queen Artemisia ship.Below two incidents which shows Pitt's cleverness and remained me of watching a MGR movie.One is after getting out of the car, Dirk Pitt with Willie the chauffeur."Willie my friend, Pitt said seriously, I must tell you something.
As early as page 27 of the book, Dirk gets angry because a woman has had the audacity to still be in mourning over a husband that died 9 years previously.
You belong to every man who turns and admires you as you pass by and who longs to possess you."After making her cry he then turns her vulnerable moment into an opportunity for sex.I fully understand that Dirk is supposed to be a James Bond-like character for the archaeological world, but that passage was so revolting, I couldn't stomach any more.
Clive Cussler’s The Mediterranean Caper starts out just as Major Dirk Pitt arrives on an island near Greece to investigate a series of mishaps on a science vessel looking for a rare fish.
Dirk Pitt can drive the old war plane off with his own non-combat plane, but is now drawn into a strange fight seemingly about fish.The second book in the Dirk Pitt series keeps up the story of the James Bond like hero and womanizer who lives through the strangest adventures.
This was my 2nd Dirk Pitt book (Dragon was my first) that I picked up after realizing that the BF owned enough of the series that I could read it in some semblance of order.
They are definitely a predicatable format (one of my favorite Goodreads Reviews summed up: Meet Bad Guy, Meet Dirk, Meet Hot Girl, Enter dangerous situation to defeat bad guy, Dirk Wins, Dirk Gets the Girl - is spot on) but they are still different enough to be enjoyable.
Especially on a rainy day in January!
The Mediterranean Caper by Clive Cussler was the first published book featuring Dirk Pitt and started off a four decade long series of books that sold millions of books and multiple times on the bestseller list.Dirk Pitt and his best friend Al Giordino, heading to the Greek island of Thasos on a special assignment to a NUMA vessel, fight off a WWI German fighter attacking a nearby U.S. Air Force base in a WWII-era seaplane.
2  stars. Not for me, but it might be good for teen boys and adults in that kind of mood.STORY BRIEF:A group of scientists are looking for a fish that may exist in the Mediterranean Sea. They thought it was extinct. Someone is sabotaging things. Dirk Pitt is assigned to help them. Some bad guys are nearby doing bad things.REVIEWER’S OPINION:I enjoyed the Lee Child books about Jack Reacher, and I thought this author might be similar. Although I’ve compared Jack to a comic book hero, I find Dirk i
Not for me, but it might be good for teen boys and adults in that kind of mood.STORY BRIEF:A group of scientists are looking for a fish that may exist in the Mediterranean Sea. They thought it was extinct.
Some bad guys are nearby doing bad things.REVIEWER’S OPINION:I enjoyed the Lee Child books about Jack Reacher, and I thought this author might be similar.
I’ve now read two Dirk Pitt books.
Jack Reacher fascinates and entertains me but Dirk doesn’t.
The Dirk stories feel like action-adventure movies, not the kind of depth that I normally get from books.
Don't waste your time reading this one. The plot is fine, typical beach reading, but... There's fine line between machismo and misogynistic kak, and this particular book crosses it. It's the difference between a dog pissing to mark his territory, and a dog pissing on you to mark his territory. I like Cussler's stuff, but if I'd started with this one I would have developed a permanent sour opinion for him. Thank God it dawned on him that women can read too, and changed a few things later in the series.
Second Dirk Pitt and same old story. Baddie with underwater secret hideaway and a hero who slaps women and thinks that is cool. I am told that the early books lead to a great series. Not convinced yet.
The first six Dirk Pitt books filled some lonely hours for me between the ages of 14 and 16, when I was in a Christian boarding school and bored out of my mind for long stretches at a time.
The military officer and maritime troubleshooter doesn't seem to have much use for women, as much as he purports to love them, and an early scene in the book depicting Pitt slapping, snarling at and then seducing a woman he just met on the beach of a Greek island seems flat-out cringe-inducing in any time or context.
Clive Cussler books fall into the category I like to call "Brain Candy": completely entertaining and teaches me something completely new.
I LOVE that movie and was happily surprised to realize it was a book in a very extensive series.Dirk Pitt and Al Giardino work for the National Underwater Marine Agency and have been sidekicks since their much younger days.
I'm also the type who soaks up new info like a sponge.The Mediterranean Caper is Cussler's first novel with Dirk and Al. The action starts within the first 3 pages and doesn't stop until the very last.
Damn I just love Dirk Pitt!
He's not a hottie, heck according to Cussler, he's not even handsome; regardless, he always gets the girl.
Dirk is quick on his feet and even though he always gets caught, his unconventional tactics will amaze you.
Of course, Dirk and Al aren't satisfied just flying to save the day.
No no no, Dirk has to get stumble on an ingenious drug smuggling operation and immediately get on the bad side of the culprit.
This was written in 1973 so it's not as involved and convoluted as Cussler's later Pitt novels.
Den här boken vacklar mellan att vara så dålig att det är underhållande och att bara vara medioker.Från det överförälskade sättet författaren gillar att beskriva huvudpersonens manlighet, till att beskriva all typ av militär hårdvara med samma förtjusning och till det rent skrattretande sättet som kvinnor porträtteras så finns det bara en beskrivning som passar in: gubbporr....men den var lite intressant i slutet.Otroligt fånig.Men stundtals underhållande.0/10, Helt okej bok.
I'm glad I started with Sahara rather than this one
Go back to this book (or Pacific Vortex, which was written even earlier)...The success of Clive Cussler and Dirk Pitt is not a mistake.
)The thing that has dated most for me is the massive info dump conversation scenes in the final third of the book.
I'm pretty sure Cussler paces this stuff out better in his other books.Before reading this book, I read a modern thriller published in 2007.
The book wasn't bad mind you, but it became clear just how much better Cussler's writing was in comparison.
I originally read The Mediterranean Caper under the title Mayday and to be honest the word Caper should not be used in anything but a spoof, of course many would say the adventures of Dirk Pitt are firmly tongue in cheek:)In this novel Dirk and Al come to the rescue of a US Airforce base under attack from what looks like a WW1 biplane, after fending off the attack with their own PBY they find themselves knee deep in a smuggling operation that has been ongoing for decades.
I remember reading a Dirk Pitt book in high school, though, which one escapes my memory.
I've had this one lying around from my father for quite a while and I was in the mood for something different - both in genre and time frame.And I can safely say that time has passed Dirk Pitt.
While it can be entertaining to read about an alpha male James Bond wannabe, who always says the 'right thing' to women, Pitt instead comes off as uncharismatic, chauvanistic alcoholic.
The story itself is straight forward with a few twists.
Ok, I’ve been reading Cussler on and off since the mid 90s, but never his early stuff. This book was published in 1972, so I’m going to attribute its general sexism to that. I’ve heard Pitt referred to by other readers as the “James Bond of the USA”. At one point the main character even introduces himself as Pitt, Dirk Pitt...ugh! But my lame teenage heart is going to guiltily be entertained by the swashbuckling (yeah, I said it) antics of Dirk and his sidekick Al. There’s no accounting for taste, and I can admit that.
Somehow, Cussler’s idea that we should have a nautical American James Bond is so crazy that it just works.
I really enjoyed Deep Fathom, but this book I found so boring. I thought the way that Teri is written in and how he acts towards her in the start is pretty funny, but the storyline just couldn't keep me interested.
Not as good as Pacific Vortex but I still highly enjoyed it, can't wait to read more in the Dirk Pitt Series
Avendo cominciato a leggere le avventure di Dirk Pitt partendo da uno dei libri a metà nella serie - per la precisione con Alta marea - e buttandomi solo più tardi nella lettura delle prime pubblicazioni, ho avuto modo di apprezzare particolarmente l’evoluzione sia della trama che dei personaggi nel passare degli anni.
La storia sembrava comunque avvincente e con una buona trama, ma a circa 50 pagine dall’inizio… Il protagonista incontra una donna sulla spiaggia, e dopo aver ascoltato la sua storia della morte del marito nove anni prima e averla vista con le lacrime agli occhi, le molla un ceffone di punto in bianco, infastidito dalla sua sofferenza.
A perfect book for those who love adventures, in a dangerous way. And the ones who love about ocean and the machines running on water should read this book. A good climax..... The book is somewhat predictable at some points, but it does not have a great effect overall.
