https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/312957.Post_Scarcity_Anarchism
Bookchin's model of action is the May 1968 events in France - the student protests and general strike that came tantalizingly close to radically remaking French society.
While Bookchin correctly critiques Marx for his insistence on seizing state power (which inevitably results in the reconstitution of state power in a new elite), his own conception of revolution also aims straight for the top through the seizure of state power via the action of the general strike.
Any revolution that aims to seize the top of society without first transforming its base is doomed to either reconstitute state power with a new elite, or to lack the nourishment to sustain itself.
This was published back in 1971, and its ecological analysis was already sketched out in Our Synthetic Environment which Bookchin published in 1962 before Rachel Carson's Silent Spring."Towards a Liberatory Technology" is noteworthy for its early and now (I believe) vindicated argument for the the ecological and decentralizing potential of wind and solar energy and electrolysis-based hydrogen energy.
Bookchin should try telling the Argentinian workers occupying factories that industrial workers are not a revolutionary class.
Required reading for anarchists and Marxists alike. Raises a lot of valid criticisms and useful concepts, not only for analyzing the past, but for building the future we want and need.
As something of a green anarchist (though not of the 'primitivist' persuasion), Bookchin, in  Post-Scarcity Anarchism calls for anarchist resistance and, ultimately, revolution against the socio-politico-economic hierarchies of capitalism, which, in having introduced and maintained such inter-human hierarchies, are reproduced in humanity's relationship to nature/the environment, resulting in the ecological disaster we now see (and seemingly will continue to face).
He finds these tragic consequences unsurprising, as he posits that the means and ends of revolution must be harmonized--the use of hierarchy and centralism to effect revolution (which, in my view, the Bolsheviks never achieved), claims Bookchin, unsurprisingly results in hierarchy and centralism in 'post-revolutionary' society.
Bookchin is an idealist, and on a certain level that hurts this book -- instead of detailed solutions there's flowery prose about affinity groups and ecological justice.
Bookchin assumes that we're living in a post-scarcity society, which I'm not so sure about, especially if you take a global view.
When machine labour eliminates jobs, this is at some level a good thing, but the current system ensures that instead of getting to live in leisure the humans it replaces will be reduced to nothing.
bookchin is always good and fresh tbh. im not too sure about"""" liberatory technolongy"""" and like what that would mean for 2018 but it is a concept. I really liked the in depth discussions about specific revolutions because usually people are critical of them from a "communism is bad" perspective, or they worship lenin. anyway this is a hot take
Inspirational and rounded arguments that encourage consideration from the reader. From the potential for humans to be either liberated or subordinated by technology to the possibility for managing and encouraging abundant environmental fertility. A great many topics are discussed in the essays within, but Bookchin's sense of optimism pervades each text and is a liberating read when placed next to (the far more common) deconstruction and critique that makes up the majority of modern political and social theory. One for the hopeful among us.
One of the criticisms of the current system which I found the most interesting was the alienation which our society creates.
So the criticisms of socialism and Marxism, in particular, in this book were very helpful, giving me a different perspective on the subject, that challenged my beliefs.
It was refreshing to hear the Anarchist perspective on Socialism, rather than the usually narrow and polarized rhetoric of Socialism VS Capitalism.I also enjoyed the talk about what is important for a revolution, which was reiterated many times, mostly being that the revolution must embody the aspects and non-hierarchical forms that the society we wish to create will have.
"In the midst of all the confusing ideological crosscurrents of our time, one question must always remain in the foreground: what the hell are we trying to make a revolution for?
Is it to emancipate abstractions such as "The Proletariat," "The People," "History," "Society"?Or is it finally to dissolve hierarchy, class rule and coercion—to make it possible for each individual to gain control of his everyday life?
If the true purpose of revolution is to bring the neanderthal men of PL to power, it is not worth making.
We need hardly argue the inane questions of whether individual development can be severed from social and communal development; obviously the two go together.
Written in the 1960s and '70s, the work suffers from a certain datedness, but the essays on ecology and technology turned out to be futuristic.
He emphasizes environmentalism and ties ecology to revolutionary thought.
Technology can be liberating or if mishandled can dominate humans.
However, he's an anarchist who leans to the left and was a Trotskyite in his young days.But Bookchin puts too much stock in the '60s youth culture and New Left.
Disco culture even earlier in the '70s did help matters either.Ultimately, this is a utopian work, but it remain nonetheless a worthy of reading.
A product of its time but thoroughly insightful.
Nihil novum sub sole.
I like bunnies and cuddles.
Indeed, it was the abundant meaninglessness of suburbia and consumer society that laid the groundwork for the student and antiwar movements of the 1960s, not a narrow doctrine of class struggle."The motive forces of revolution today, at least in the industrialized world, are not simply scarcity and material need, but also the quality of everyday life, the demand for the liberation of experience, the attempt to gain control over one's own destiny."(166)Bookchin does make questionable statements at times, particularly regarding his supporting (Marx's idea) of advanced industrial technology as a prerequisite for freedom.
(Though the "post-scarcity" title had made me somewhat skeptical.) It is perhaps more valuable that I *didn't* agree with everything, but instead had to iron out some of my own beliefs in realms that aren't usually challenged.Also worth noting is that while much of this is dated (particularly the essay on technology), it is forward thinking enough to mostly still apply (particularly impressive, for the 1960s, is his two warnings about the warming potential of fossil fuels).
In "Ecology and Revolutionary Thought," which has a legacy and influence I whole-heartedly endorse, I feel he at times over-relied on metaphors about ecosystems to function as practical moral laws.
Of course, there are several things wrong with this argument the foremost of which would be that the very point an ecologically minded society is to shed the shackles of over-consumption, over-production, and economic growth for economic growth's sake; in line with a society where technology is used as a catalyst to free human beings from as much of the necessary physical toil required to live.
Second, it definitely wasn't the only type of technology advocated, the essay proposes that a variegated mesh of renewable, green power production means (best suited for their specific area) permeate all occupied land in a highly decentralized manner.
This book departs where much of the Anarchist literature lets off. That is, it deals with distinctly post-industrial, post-WWII issues facing all advanced capitalist states, especially the USA. Bookchin's faith in technology as the tool to human liberation, his environmental conscience, and his critique of authoritarian socialism (and Marxism in particular) make for a refreshing read. Moreover, he writes well and his prose flows very agreeably. Unlike other books on anarchism, he doesn't dwell endlessly on the history of the movement. Though slightly dated now (the essays are from the late '60s), this book constitutes a quick and informative read.

More libertarian than anarchist. Makes a good argument that capitalism would have died under revolt if it wasn't for the industrial revolution and that it doesn't work for the benefit of the majority; having to be constantly subsidized to keep the money moving without distributing any of the wealth. Calls for an end to capitalism to be replaced by localized decision making on the environment, healthcare etc.
This is one of Bookchin's most interesting books I've read. It is not all muddy with controversies with Bob Black and other strange lifeforms, but it actually presents a forward thinking, challenging view of politics and our understading of capitalism and class.
I haven't completed this whole thing yet but most of it is under my belt. It inspires me and makes me happy to see it sitting on my shelf. It is of comfort to know that someone has spent so much time dealing with these issues-is so concerned with our world and the human condition.
Important book to read regarding future technology and potential freedom from labor's burdens. A post scarcity society should be the end all goal of every country, in my opinion and we can all help one another in this. We have to, in order to sustain the planet, thus ourselves as well.
I didn't agree with all of it (for one thing, he wasn't hard enough on the bourgeoisie), but it gave me some interesting things to think about, and I'm glad I read it. It's pretty quotable, too.
Some really good essays. Wasn't too sure on some of his conclusions/assumptions--but overall, a very interesting look at radical environmentalism from a legendary eco-anarchist.
Classic essays with a lot of relevance still.
pdf. http://en.bookfi.org
This book is classic. Anarchy or annihilation that is some good writing. Good analysis of 68 Paris and interesting notions of work as toil.
It's unfair for me to give this book two stars as I never really read it. I skimmed a few chapters. I should sit down and read the damn thing.
Even more important given the modern context of the Kurdish uprising against their partitioned & occupied lands, climate change and the technological acceleration.
I haven't read more thsn the first essay in this book, but it has inspired a lot of curiosity in me towards leftist political theory.
