https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32498038-theft-by-finding
There ‘is’ a tedious feeling when David reads a date of a diary entry - followed by another date/location and paragraph type diary entry...on and on and ON!Some of it didn’t feel any more personal than calling off names at a High School graduation, but after awhile - something happens.
When people say the expression “that guy could read the phone book and make it interesting”...well, somebody must have been thinking about David Sedaris.I ended up enjoying my time listening to David’s tedious dairy entries - his dry wit - and his child like being in the world.
You LITERALLY read the phone book as well as random recipes and lists of what he got for Christmas and various other nonsense like what happened that day on As the World Turns or the off-color joke a co-worker told him that day.If you can get through the first 20% or so, it becomes smoother sailing.
David puts down the meth pipe and details his initial successes as a playwright in New York City all the way to becoming a best-selling author and residing in Paris.
“Our father’s going to love this,” Amy said to the saleswoman as we laid the vibrator on the counter.
Dear Diary, I read this book recently that was completely in diary format since the author had, in fact, published 25 years of diary entries, (Volume I apparently), that started when he was about 20-21 years old and has continued on ever since.
He's starting to sound a little humorous."The diary lightened up when I moved to Chicago, partly because I was in a big city and because I felt better about myself." David attended and graduated from the Art Institute here, where many fabulous entries; particularly his writing times at his favorite IHOP near his neighborhood.
But I am going to also listen on audio, so much better when David reads it to you.
David Sedaris explains in the Introduction of his new book that “in the U.K., if you discover something of value and keep it, that's theft by finding.”Thus a great title was born, and it suits the general theme of David's diaries.
if you don't know David's writing, I'm not sure you're going to make it past page 75.Frankly, David's diary entries from the late 1970s/early 1980s are fairly disgusting.
That aspect of his writing has always been relatable to me.For established Sedaris fans, this is a mostly fun read, despite the degrading and loathsome accounts of humanity it reveals, but, personally, I'm holding out for new material.
Every year it seems in any undergrad English class, the works of David Sedaris pop up as expected reading material.
I did like the basic concept of this book, but the humor to me seemed very vulgar and not particularly funny, and the stories themselves were wallowing in the depravity of the worst life has to offer, going nowhere and presenting stuff that was either totally pointless or just weird.
I also found that Sedaris's diary entries didn't feel altogether genuine.
I love big books when they have something substantial and powerful to offer, but Theft by Finding was just a collection of ramblings about nothing notable in particular.
It's a free country. Anybody can write about any old thing they want in their diary, of course. But it is beyond me why in this highly selective published version of his Sedaris would choose to include so many—dozens and dozens of—entries that record in great othering detail his observations of disabled and mentally ill strangers. I have long had a complicated relationship with his writings; now I'm turned off of him probably for good.
David Sedaris is funny. And he's funny in his own way. It's like his humor comes in its own flavor that you can't find anywhere else. Which is why when he has a new book come out, it's an event. This book is a collection of Sedaris's old diaries. I winced at the idea for a minute, then decided it'd still be worth reading. I wasn't wrong. This book is funny, introspective, and interesting. It's not the best intro to Sedaris for new readers, but fans will enjoy it.
The feeling of being in the backseat (or perched on the handlebars of his bike, perhaps) as he struggles through his early years is both incredibly reassuring and, of course, hilarious.
(Of course.) Then, just TWO DAYS LATER, he applies for the Macy's elf gig that the time-traveling reader knows would soon truly launch his career with "The Santaland Diaries." Holy cow.
Everything about this guy's life changed (for the better) over the course of three days in October 1990, and at the time he had no idea.
My first exposure to Sedaris was with the excellent When You Are Engulfed in Flames audiobook.
We follow Sedaris as a young adult dabbling in every drug imaginable, we see him meet many people who would become instrumental in his life, and we see the nuggets that would eventually become his well-known stories.If you're like me, then you'll find a lot of common ground with Sedaris.
This would never be my recommendation to a Sedaris newbie--When You Are Engulfed In Flames is my suggestion!--but it still ends up being a pretty enjoyable listen.
So, if you know you like Sedaris, I'd recommend it highly!
I gave the audiobook a try, but quit after a couple of hours and returned it to Audible- I think I was up to 1984. It is too bleak and filled with tiny little details about everyday life, but without the insights I expect from a Sedaris book. I don't really want to hear about the crazy stuff he did while on meth- that isn't entertainment for me.
"I'm not a misogynist. I'm a misanthrope. I hate everyone equally." This is a book for established Sedaris fans. I say this because I'm not sure one can truly appreciate if they haven't read his other work (or at least some of it). I love his style of humor. Very intelligent, but also so silly and twisted. I was captivated even by the most mundane stories. He has a way of making anything interesting. Looking forward to the next volume!
Now I'll be off for three days.I found out that Jack and Mary, the night managers at work, secretly refer to me as "the space cadet." God, that makes me mad.[insert laughing-until-crying emoji here]One thing I learned from reading Theft by Finding is that I am just completely fascinated by David Sedaris.
I loved hearing about his early days as a starving artist, and once he started to achieve success with his writing I loved getting all kinds of background information on how he got his first publishing deal, how his book tours went, what other writers he knows and hangs out with.
I have read 3 of his books after this one, and seen him live once - so I do know his stuff pretty well.Theft by Finding is classic Sedaris form, wry, witty, fully of oneliners and based on his extraordinary powers of observation.
It deals with the mundane for the most part, but makes that mundane interesting with remarkable stylistic affect and a fantastic sense of voice.Especially if you listen to this one, you will notice how Mr. Sedaris has a great talent for voices, spoken and written.
It's also interesting to observe his transition from feeble and down-on-his-luck meth head to relatively self-obsessed member of the literati.
The only reason it took so long to finish this is because I bought it on iBooks and the only time i had to read it was on the bus to work, anyways, it was worth it. Sedaris manages to be funny writing his diary and recounting daily routine to himself, he's very good with sarcasm and self sarcasm. Loved it
When I heard he was publishing his selected diaries, I wasn’t sure I’d read them.
I’d pretty much convinced myself that I was going to give Theft by Finding a miss – until I won a proof copy in a Goodreads giveaway.
Things picked up a bit by the early 1980s, but it wasn’t until the late 1990s that I realized I was actually finding the entries laugh-out-loud funny like I expect from Sedaris.
It’s been ninety days since I’ve had a drink.October 3, 1999; Paris: I said to the clerk, in French, “Hello.
Theft by Finding is like a b-sides and rarities album, a retrospective that includes a bunch of old stuff, rough cuts, alternative versions of the hits, etc.
I'm one of them.This might also be enjoyable for non-fans, who just like a good salacious diary, something that feels gossipy and gives you the sense that dirt has been properly dished.
Theft by Finding covers Sedaris' early years when he was a down-and-out drug addict.
However, there's PLENTY of juicy diary material prior to that, so dig in!
If you're looking for Sedaris' typical style of book, this isn't it.
He writes with sincerity about grappling with the many challenges of life, from bigotry to death, family to success.
Twentyfive years is a huge chunk of life, in his case dealing with the making of his career, then of navigating it, and of finding one's place in the world as well as love.
His writing and reading are so personal and likeable that, if he chooses to fill us in about his subsequent years in a later book, I can't help hoping that he's gained his footing.
I am a die-hard David Sedaris fan.
I’ve read all of his books, and I want to keep it that way.
So when I heard last month that he had a new book coming out, I knew I had to read it ASAP.
Lucky for me, Book of the Month club offered it as an add on.
I snapped it up right away, hit ship immediately, and watched for my box.
Theft by Finding had me laughing out loud.
What makes Theft by Finding different is its slice of life quality.
Gimme 2003 to 2017!— Rebecca Rennerfrom The Best Books We Read In June 2017: https://bookriot.com/2017/07/03/riot-...
It was, I thought, the perfect title for this book.I've read quite a bit of David Sedaris and his collections of wry and biting essays, and I think it was in Let's Explore Diabetes with Owls that I first learned his work method: Walking around every day with a notebook in his pocket, Sedaris listens in on conversations, interacts with strangers, and otherwise attempts to live a life worth recording; writing it all down in his notebook.
This book will probably be something that Sedaris fans enjoy more than someone who hasn't read any of his work.
If you are new to Sedaris, I recommend starting off with "Me Talk Pretty One Day."In this diary collection, David Sedaris finds everyday life circumstances entertaining.
This book takes place when David is 21 and poor, starting out on his own and it is interesting as a big fan of his to see how he gets from there to having his books published and living in France in 2002.
The one thing that struck me in this diary collection is that David mostly describes his life without emotions getting in the way.
A MUST-READ for Sedaris fans. This sort of feels like a behind the scenes look at David's life. It's truly admirable that he's been keeping a journal all these years and explains how he writes his fabulous, funny stories. Not to mention he's honest, observant, kind, and a humble guy.
But of course, there is no plot as Sedaris jotted down his thoughts, no matter how trivial, and gives the reader a sense of his life which was to say the least, interesting.It is hard to review a Sedaris book.....you either love it or shrug your shoulders and wonder what it is all about.
Do I need to say that I did not shrug my shoulders?????
Recommended with one caveat........don't start reading Sedaris with this book.
It takes some familiarity with his style and his life to fully appreciate it.
For me, it was also poignant because my young adult life in NYC overlapped with Sedaris's own, and I worked in the book world at the time.
This was a nostalgic pleasure for me.Having said that, I would agree with some other reviewers that the early years of the diaries are fairly boring (I say "fairly" because Sedaris is never completely boring, in my opinion) and much of what he writes is already better said in his other books.
And by better, I mean funnier; whether or not the diaries are a truer reflection of how his life unfolded is irrelevant to me.
Master of the humorous essay (and Book of the Month Judge), David Sedaris has built a career based on his witty observations about everyday life, and his diaries contain a treasure trove of raw material that shaped his distinctive writing.
Theft by Finding is a 24-year spree of notes, recounted conversations (that ear for dialogue as honed as ever!), Christmas lists, overheard jokes, recipes, and straight up hilarity.
A must-read for any Sedaris fan, this is the perfect book to flip through at random, looking for a gem of a sentence or two to catch your eye and tickle your funny bone.— Book of the MonthRead more at https://www.bookofthemonth.com/theft-...
I feel so bummed out having finished this because I know I won't read something else this good for a long time.
Watching him fall in love with Hugh and become a writer is a joy.
It never feels mean-spirited, Sedaris always finds the humanity.
On a side note, I have seen Sedaris read a number of times over the years and have stood in line for hours to get him to sign books.
In the past, however, the readings were always free.
While I have no doubt he will be brilliant as always, that seems a bit stiff for what is essentially a long commercial for a book.
I love you David, just not $95 worth.
I'm a big fan of David Sedaris, an author who takes the chaos of the world, sometimes even the worst challenges, and spins it into a unique view.
The first half is pretty boring but things get funnier as Sedaris hones his skills and gets richer, so maybe he just has more time to write funnier stuff.
This is just the first half of his "Diaries" and I'll read the rest as well as his next "real" book.
For several nights in a row, my poor husband would be almost asleep when I would bust out laughing while reading an entry from one of David Sedaris' diary entries.
I've been a David Sedaris fan for nearly 20 years and have been looking forward to this book for months.
If you've read and enjoyed previous Sedaris books, or if you've had the chance to hear Sedaris read from his diaries before, you'll enjoy Theft by Finding.
However if you are fan, Theft by Finding: Diaries is a must-read."In order to record your life, you sort of need to live it.
A patron had heard a piece on NPR and wanted to track down the author and title.
This was, of course, pre-Internet, and even calling our local public radio station didn't elicit the answer...until I heard Sedaris myself reading Santaland Diaries on NPR as I returned to work from a dentist appointment.
And thus began my love affair with Sedaris reading his own work, including a chance to see him perform live.
Santaland is here, in diary form before it was enlarged into a longer piece and even a play, and it's interesting to imagine how it could have grown from those few notes and incidents.
Update 3/8/18: I gave this book another try and listened to it on audiobook instead.
Much better choice!
The author narrates, which I always enjoy.
It was fun to witness the transformation from Sedaris as young, broke and frequently high to older, wealthier and extremely successful in his career.
Some of the entries were less interesting than others, but it was easier to "zone out" listening to the audio book.I love David Sedaris' other works, but this book is just a collection of diary entries that are neither interesting or entertaining (to me).
