https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107327.Landfall
The more I read his work, the more I love the writing of Nevil Shute.
The story is presented in a gentle, logical manner and as you read through, everything fits together nicely.
The characters are sympathetic, especially Jerry and Mona, both lovely people who are bound together, as many seem to have been in the War. The story is a pleasure to read, another example of Shute's ability to write interesting stories that strike a chord in your heart; everyday people doing impressive things, people you'd love to meet and know.
I’ve never been one for reading much in the way of novels, historical or contemporary; but thoroughly gripped, I read Nevil Shute’s “Landfall”, a Naval story (first published in 1940) at one sitting, totally immersed, utterly engrossed, barely noticing day change into night.
The topology given for the Hampshire coast between Southampton and Portsmouth reads believably.
Did Nevile Shute develop his plot from an incident in real life?
All in all, for those who love the stories and films that came out of WWII, from the relative safety of peacetime in 2015, Nevile Shute’s “Landfall” (1940) is a deeply moving and warmly satisfying read indeed.
I actually rather enjoyed this book as it was nicely balanced between the action and horrors of war, the romance between Chambers and Mona and the despair he felt after the sinking of the submarine and the politics that followed as the RAF and Navy tried to blame each other.
At first I wasn't particularly keen on Mona but she really came into her own as the story continued and she began to uncover the truth behind what really happened and she shows some really backbone pushing forward to get herself heard.
Typical of Shute's work, the story revolves around aviators and their cohorts during WW2. Rich in detail concerning military aircraft and military life in general, it celebrates the character of fairly ordinary people facing extraordinary challenges. The rigid class structure of early 20th century Britain, while slowly being eroded still pervades society -- for example the idea that a young officer's military career would be compromised by a marriage below his class is being challenged but is still very much an issue.Nowhere near as compelling as Shute's best work, but still a pleasant read.
Not Shute's best work - but worth a read. After some Boy's Own action sequences the plot concentrates on the determination of Mona - waitress in a café - to fight to expose an injustice which blighted the career of her pilot boyfriend. Shute is a bit variable in his portrayal of women and but Mona is one of his stronger female characters.
A splendid story! This is the sort of book that people who read for pleasure should have. A story of two young people who meet and fall in love in England in wartime. One is an aviator who sinks a submarine while on a reconnaissance patrol and later finds out it might have been an English ship. Very much a "feel good" story.
Nice little book.I couldn't understand much about the nature of the dangerous experiment the hero was involved, but that did not affect much my understanding and enjoyment of the story.It's not the best of his books, but certainly worth reading.I just love in Shute books how he describes the era. The language, the places, and people changed so much since the days of the 2nd world war.
As with all by Nevil Shute, the characters are vivid and believable. This story has Naval and electrical engineering stuff in it, too. A WWII story set in England, I wonder who reads this stuff anymore ...
In order to make them last longer, I've decided to only read Nevil Shute books that I find in used bookstores, rather than trying to track them all down thru interlibrary loan.This one was from the SFPL Friends of the Library bookstore.
Superbly done... Mr Shute has a penchant for weaving a great story with all the necessary atmosphere and deft characterisation...
This is a book I read years ago and I enjoyed it immensely. I’ve read all of Nevil Shute’s books. The best by far is “A Town Like Alice.”
It’s really quite funny reading books written in the 50s, particularly in relation to attitudes towards women. Landfall in the story of a young pilot, at the beginning of WWII, who, just as he starts getting involved with a barmaid, bombs a submarine while on patrol, and is accused of sinking an English submarine. There’s romance, mystery, a bit of technical detail, though not as much as some Shute novels. An enjoyable read.
A pleasant work of World War II fiction, which, thanks to actually being written in the forties, bears no lingering essence of Research or Anachronism that seem to plague so much WWII fiction written obviously more recently.Nevil Shute tells a straightforward and honest story; I would speculate that his sense of perception and his attention to detail as a writer are assets that served him well also in his capacity as a mechanical engineer.
I was facsinated by this World War II story of a sunken submarine and the not entirely impartial investigation into the British Air Force pilot responsible for bombing it. The fact that the book was written during WWII both lends great authenticity and makes some elements - like that era's remarkable condescension toward women - a little tough to swallow.
This book was quite good, and I'll likely read something more from Shute.
While his early flights and then the sub inquiry are going on, the young man begins a romance with a bar girl.
After the inquiry into the sub sinking, the young man is transferred away.
Interestingly, in my mind's eye, the action in this book took place in black and white, as would be the case were I watching the action in a movie theater of that time period.
I read WWII stories and noire detective stories in black and white because that's the way I've seen them portrayed.
(Though some of their dialogue must have been possibly scandalous for 1940...) Of course the class issues, so omnipresent in England at the time, also sound incredibly dated.Shute writes well about the boredom of Coastal Command and Bomber Command ops, but the most shocking part of the story revolves around Mona's father's view of Jerry after he kept her out too late one night.
If it had been anyone else, he have been really angry." Wow, for the first time in recorded dating history, a father of a woman thinks that her suitor being a modeler is a good thing...
I have just finished re-reading this wonderful Nevil Shute story, the first time being Nov 28, 2011.
British Flying Officer Roderick "Jerry" Chambers is in the Coastal Command flying very boring observation flights over the English Channel guarding against German submarines near the southern England coast at Portsmouth.
During one of his flights he sinks what he is convinced was a German submarine, but non-definitive evidence comes to light that he may have sunk an English submarine.
At the same time bits and pieces come together regarding the sinking for which he had been censured.
His task, at first boring, becomes more interesting than he might like when he bombs and sinks a submarine.
At first proud of his accomplishment, he learns to his horror that he is accused of sinking a British sub which has gone missing.
As usual, there is the obligatory young woman with whom the aviator becomes involved as the story unwinds.
Once again Mr. Shute combines an interesting plot line with sympathetic characters to produce a satisfying and ultimately heartwarming story.
I wonder if the British government ever recognized, formally or informally, what Mr. Shute's writing did to support the war effort.
He had been warned to look out for an English submarine, the Caranx, in a nearby place, but could see no markings on the sub which identified it as English.
Later, he is accused by the Navy of sinking the Caranx.
Later he volunteers for a dangerous mission testing a new weapon and goes back to Portsmouth.
Mona hears occasional gossip in the bar and sees a newspaper article about another sub being seen sinking on the same day the Caranx disappeared.
She is sure that Jerry must have sunk the submarine which torpedoed the Caranx.
Landfall is the story of Jerry Chambers, a WWII pilot who returns from a bombing an enemy submarine in the English Channel to discover he has inadvertently bombed a British one.
Jerry remains convinced that the submarine he destroyed was not British, but only his barmaid sweetheart believes him.
Nevil Shute's style in Landfall is unexpectedly 'light and easy', and I read it cover-to-cover in one evening.
Landfall compares favourably with similar works by by Alistair MacLean and Dennis Wheatley, although I've only read a few books by either.
Perhaps it's that Shute has invested in developing characters with a little more depth and substance than the average pot-boiler.
I read this book with my teenage son.
We both liked it.
In fact, he said he *really* liked it but couldn't say why.
In the end, he decided it was because the characters seemed real (so the love story didn't seem like a sweet cliche).
One, it made sparse use of commas which made it extra hard to get the phrasing right while reading it aloud.
Second, I had perhaps unfairly expected more of a sustained mystery surrounding the sinking described on the back cover, but I waited and waited while the characters' lives just wandered onwards.
I love Nevil Shute's writing. There were moments that I couldn't follow because of the language of the times (I can mostly understand modern British English but have a little trouble with older lingo) but Landfall, about a man who may or may not have accidentally bombed one of his own country's submarines during WWII, is sometimes tense, sometimes a little plodding. Regardless, it's excellent storytelling and I'm tempted to dive into another Nevil Shute book.
'So let them pass, small people of no great significance, caught up and swept together like dead leaves in the great whirlwind of the war. Wars come, and all the world is shattered by their blast. But through it all young people meet and marry; life goes on, though temples rock and the tall buildings start and crumble in the dust of their destruction'. Shute sums this book up quite nicely himself. It's a nice little story, you know except all the dead naval officers, and completely untaxing.
I've been on a Nevil Shute jag lately thanks to a friend's recommendation. Although his heroes (usually RAF pilots or fliers of some kind) go through ups and downs and harrowing airborne adventures, the reader can be pretty sure that he will win his lass in the end, and love will triumph. LANDFALL is one of the better ones. I'm reading these mostly for the atmosphere of World War II England as the memoir I'm writing about my mother's life is set there.
Young coastal patrol pilot Terry Sanders is accused of sinking a British submarine by mistake. After he is transferred to test a highly dangerous experimental bomb, the woman he loves sets out to prove his innocence.
I love Neville Shute's writing. This dialogue between Jerry and Mona seems odd, but I think it is very authentic for the period. This one is based on a true story of a British pilot was accused of sinking a British submarine.
Charming love story that was written during WWII about WWII. Interesting, very little plot, quick read.
Typical of Nevil Shute, his books always manage to leave the reader with a feeling of general goodwill. An uplifting tale this one.
Het oordeel
I love those British war-novels. Although a bit straight forward, Nevil Shute writes really nice and vivid.
