https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4591.Genome
I suggest thinking of the author/narrator as a cool guy you'd be friends with telling you all this information, instead of a nerdy/haughty *scientist* ...He's not a scientist, he's a writer & former editor, & this isn't a textbook, but it could be--he's done his research & includes all his references.
Eye-opening in a way that encourages wonder rather than only prescribing answers.If you can't stomach the whole book, browse the Table of Contents &/or the Index & pick out a chapter or two--they're fairly self-contained so you can get away with skipping around, and I guarantee you will learn something cool.
In fact, the Bibliography and Notes section mentions that the book was already out of date, as new knowledge is growing at a very fast rate.
Nevertheless, the book is fascinating, even if modern genetic technologies are not even mentioned--as they were not yet invented at the time of publication!We often read that 98% of our genetic letters are in common with chimpanzees, and 97% with gorillas.
So, it must be the remaining 2% of our gene structures that differentiate humans from chimpanzees.All sorts of nature-vs.-nurture issues are addressed in this book.
My only reservation about it, is the fact that it is already quite out of date due to the rate of increasing knowledge about genetics.
وأعتقد أن المترجم لم يتمكن من ترجمة الأسلوبفيما عدا ذلك, فالكتاب كنز, وسأسعى للحصول على نسخته الإنجليزيةيتحدث المؤلف عن أحد أهم إنجازات العلم في التاريخ, اكتشاف خريطة الجينوم البشري, الذي كان يعتقد أنه سيجيب على جميع الأسئلة المتعلقة بالإنسان, ولكن اتضح بعد حين أن الاكتشاف لم يقم إلا بتفجير فيضا من الأسئلة الجديدة الكتاب مقسم إلى 23 فصلا, وفي كل فصل يختار جينا من الجينات من كل زوج من الكروموسومات ويحكي عن قصة اكتشافه والأبحاث المتعلقة به ورؤيته لمستقبل جين هذا الزوج من الكروموسوماتبالطبع, المؤلف لن يكتب عن كل الجينات, فجسم الإنسان - حسب المذكور في الكتاب - يحتوي على 60 إلى 80 ألف جين.
The book is divided into 23 chapters, representing the 23 different sets of chromosomes in the human body.
Ridley uses Huntington’s Disease to prove this point: he explains how Huntington’s is caused, why it happens in some people and not in others, and describes in detail how a repeating sequence of CAGs can determine at what age you start to show symptoms.
What I appreciated the most, though, was that Ridley also pushes further to describe the ramifications of the disease—should doctors tell a patient that they have the disease and that they will develop symptoms at a certain age?

اما فهرس الكتاب انه رائع فعلاً فالفصل يعنى الكروموسوم "الفصل الاول اى الكرموسوم الاول ك1:الحياة - ك2: النوع - ك3: التاريخ - ك4: المصير - ك5: البيئة - ك6 : الذكاء - ك7: الغريزة - ك8: الصراع - ك9: الاهتمام بالذات - ك10: المرض - ك11: التوتر - ك12: الشخصية - ك13: تجميع الذات - ك14: ما قبل التاريخ - ك15: الخلود - ك16: الجنس - ك17: الذاكرة - ك18: الموت - ك19: العلاج - ك20: الوقاية - ك21: السياسة - ك22: تحسين النسل - ك23: الارادة الحرة" ....
لست معتادة على قراءة الكتب العلمية باللغة العربية، اقصد بالعلمية ما يندرج منها تحت الاختصاص الطبي، كنت قد واجهت الامرين مع قراءة علم النفس التطوري، وقررت أن ابحث عن تسخة انكليزية لافهم ما مكتوب فيه :D لكن هذا كتاب جميل، يستحق القراءة وبالتأكيد سيكون اكثر متعة حين الحصول على نسخته بلغة العلم الانكليزية :)
Even though this was written and published over 15 years ago, I found it relevant and revealing.
Ridley is one of the better science writers, and this is assuredly his master work.
Each chapter highlights a specific gene found on each of the 23 pairs of chromosomes.
He repeatedly states that the book is not about disease, but it ultimately becomes a major theme and topic.
The final chapters that discuss genetic determinism, eugenics, and nature vs nurture are treated with upmost care, empathy, and altogether brilliant writing.
Ridley expresses his views by not expressing his views.
How rare is that for a science writer?
Dawkins represents, to me, the high point of the scientist end; he does not pepper his books with interesting anecdotes and trivia, but concentrates on real theories and real dilemmas in science.
The reader is not left feeling like an insider to the world of science, but a very appreciative outsider.Ridley walks an uncomfortable medium in this book, and the result is decidedly mediocre.
By the end, the reader feels neither like an insider nor an appreciative outsider.
Rather, the reader feels like she has just read several science sections of the New York Times back to back.I’m really finding it difficult to say anything concrete about Ridley; it’s far easier to say what he is not.
I recently read two other books on the human genome: Siddhartha Mukherjee's The Gene: An Intimate History and Sam Kean's The Violinist's Thumb: And Other Lost Tales of Love, War, and Genius, as Written by Our Genetic Code.
Kean is a great storyteller, while Mukherjee tries hard to make a grand philosophical message, which falls flat, in my opinion, compared to Ridley.As for the science, much of it seemed outdated, this book being almost two decades old, and the field of human genetics so quickly changing.
Each chapter then takes one chromosome and selects from each a particular gene to describe with a much broader emphasis upon what this actually means for human individuality, culture and society.As always when reading popular science books, as well as becoming enthusiastic and wishing to retrain as an astrophysicist or quantum mechanic for instance, I am very interested in the 'rhetoric' of discourses, what emerges between the lines - often very powerful assumptions and values relating to conceptualising 'human nature'.
There's an interesting parallel I think between science writing like this which acknowledges "environmental factors' but leaves them as extremely vague, amorphous and subject to filling with whatever a particular thinker or conceptual paradigm requires, and those who consider such questions as occur around socioeconomics, ideology, material poverty etc.
This is a really great book - my only qualm is that it might be outdated now, as gene technology and science is moving so quickly forwards. Basically, if you want to know why you are here, what you are and what youre made of, this book has some pretty convincing answers. Fate, destiny, love, life, death, character, intelligence and illness are all covered and its worth pressing on through the quite tough prose to get a better, illuminating, scary but finally comforting picture of the vehicle you
This is a really great book - my only qualm is that it might be outdated now, as gene technology and science is moving so quickly forwards.
Basically, if you want to know why you are here, what you are and what you´re made of, this book has some pretty convincing answers.
Fate, destiny, love, life, death, character, intelligence and illness are all covered and it´s worth pressing on through the quite tough prose to get a better, illuminating, scary but finally comforting picture of the vehicle you´re in for this trip through life.
Here´s the thing: even though you´ve got your hands on the wheel, you´re not the driver.
What about the fact that male sperm has an agenda and that chemicals within enter the female's brain, lowering her sex drive and adjusting the timings of her menstrual cycle in an attempt to stop her mating with others?
I feel the author did this in an attempt to cover too many topics and round the book with a nice conclusion, one that wasn't needed.
If you are interested in science, biology or evolution just a little bit then read this, you won't be disappointed.
An interesting idea for a popular book about genetics - 23 chapters, one for each pair of chromosomes - that is realized into a not particularly good book.
And I'm afraid the writing is just not good enough for any of the briefly discussed ideas to stick in your brain, unless this book is literally your first exposure to the field of genetics at all (like, you didn't even learn about it at a high school level).
This level of detail may add some texture, but as a generalist I think you only want as much detail as makes the topic fun to learn about, and then to focus on getting the big ideas across.
The last few chapters contained some biased language (calling people who tore up GM crops "eco-terrorists" rather than simply "vandals," for example, is using a contested definition of terrorism) and drew some political conclusions that, whether I agreed with them or not (and there were some of each) neither fit well with the reasonably objective structure established by the preceding chapters nor were especially well defended.Despite these problems, though, this made me want to find out more about advances in genetic research since it was published.
It was worth reading to find out some interesting historical facts, but if I was choosing one book to read about genetics I'd pick something published more recently.

Keeping in mind that this book was written 20 years ago -which of course if a short life-span for literature, but a very long one for science - this is very well written, ingeniously presented and fun to engage with. I would definitely still recommend it, even if some of the scientific discussions inside are a little bit dated, because it offers a sound review of how we came to know what we do about genes and what exactly they are.
Прекрасният генетичен свят на Мат Ридлиhttp://www.knigolandia.info/2010/09/b...Книжният пазар у нас като че ли не се влияе от кризата – поне на пръв поглед.
Прекалено назад.
Разбира се, има изключения, разчитащи на сигурната популярност (да речем: Карл Сейгън, Стивън Хокинг или Брайън Грийн), но къде са Майкъл Шърмър, Даниъл Денет, Рой Спенсър, Филип Плейт, Сам Харис, Кристофър Хичънс, Джеймс Ранди и по-голямата част от библиографията на Ричард Докинс?
Именно в тази поредица от големи имена ще споменем Мат Ридли, британски автор и журналист, който също е от хората, чието отсъствие по родните книжарници е едновременно културно и интелектуално престъпление.
كتاب جميل وبسيط جدا يتناول ال DNA بكل سهولة ويسر ويذكر تاريخة وبعض الامثلة على الامراض الجينية ، ممتع جداً وجديد احببت تشبيهاته وطريقة صياغته وان كنت اظنه ناقصاً فهو لم بتناول طريقة الترجمة او التضاعف ولكنه جميل .
Review is on my booktube channel: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=feGUi...
Bearing that in mind, it was a pretty good read; sometimes, the themes Ridley chose for a particular chapter weren’t all that closely tied to the chromosome he chose, and issues like that, but that’s the problem with our chromosomes.
It’s pretty modern-human-centric: I mean, if you’re going to look at our autobiography of a species, then I think at least a little time needs to be given to the past of our species.
These include the genome’s influence on intelligence, sexual orientation, personality and free will; genetically modified foods, eugenics and testing for incurable diseases.
Girls like dolls and boys like trucks, not just because of their upbringing, but because it is in their genesTwo ways genes affect personality and behavior are through the production of dopamine and serotonin and their receptors.
There is no evidence showing the difference is due to heritability and in fact blacks raised among whites perform just as well as whites on IQ tests.Taking on another controversy, Ridley cites studies indicating sexual orientation is 50% due to genes.
Treatment for cancer too is most likely to benefit from further understanding of how genes causing cancer can be approached.
In reality, “you select the environments that suit your innate tendencies, rather than adjusting your innate tendencies to the environments you find yourself in.” Also, “the heritability of IQ might not be caused by direct ‘genes for intelligence’ at all, but by indirect genes for resistance to toxins or infections - genes in other words, that work by interacting with the environment.” A little knowledge is a dangerous thing indeed.
Crick and Watson decoded DNA by labeling its parts as A,C, G and T.Chromosomes where, however, discovered much earlier, in 1878 by Walther Flemming, and they are thread-like structures located inside the nucleus of animal and plant cells.
This explains why these diseases are more common in boys than girls.If you need proof that boys and girls are different from the very beginning it lies in this chapter and it lists an unusual and cruel Canadian experiment to help prove this point.It is also apparently clear that science is on track to cure most cancers.
Във всяко ядро има два пълни комплекта от човешкия ГЕНОМ (изключение правят само яйцеклетките и сперматозоидите, които имат по един комплект, и червените кръвни клетки, които нямат нито един).
Вместо върху плоски хартиени страници, думите в генома са написани върху дълги вериги от захар и фосфат, наречени ДНК, към които базите са прикрепени като странични пръстени.
Той е подредил по големина всичките 23 хромозоми, които са характерни за всеки един от нас, и е разгледал по-интересните факти и истории, свързани с тях.Гените ни могат да се разгледат и като своеобразни "фосили".
يشرح فيه الكاتب ما هي هذه الشيفرة و كيف تظهر رموزها في جسم الإنسان و حياته.قُدم الكتاب في رونق جميل يحاكي الجينوم البشري و ذلك بتقسيم فصول الكتاب إلى 23 فصل عدد جينات الإنسان.
رأيي الشخصي هو كون الكتاب للعامة فلو كان متخصص مركز فقط على ما هو بيولوجي لكان أكثر لأصحاب التخصص.
إن المعلومات المقدمة هنا هي أساس علم الجينوم و ليست كلها، كما يتطرق لمواضيع تعتبر تبوهات كالمثلية الجنسية و النظرية الداروينية، يستدل بنتائج علمية و يطرح رأيه الشخصي في هذا المجال.
უამრავი საინტერესო ინფორმაციით სავსე, წიგნი რომელიც არაერთხელ უნდა წაიკითხო, ჩვენს გენებში ჩაწერილი ჰომო საპიენსის (და არამარტო) ბიოგრაფია.გენომი გასაოცარი დოკუმენტია, აქ არის ჩვენი ბიოგრაფია, დოსიე, "ავადმყოფობის ისტორია" ჩვენი ევოლუციური წარსული და მომავალი, ჩვენი წარმოქმნის რეცეპტი.ჩვენ ათასობით გენი გაგვაჩნია, მათზე კი ჯამში იმდენი ინფორმაცია მოიპოვება რომ მთელი ბიბლითეკა ჭირდება.
მეთ რიდლიმ ამ წიგნში ოცდასამ თავში, რომელიც ოცდასამ წყვილ ქრომოსომას განასახიერებს და წარმოადგენს, თითო ქრომოსომიდან გამოყო ერთი ან რამდენიმე საინტერესო გენი, რომელიც გვიყვება ჩვენი ბიოგრაფიის საინტერესო დეტალებს.ავტორი ასევე სვამს ძალიან მნიშვნელოვან აქცენტებს გენური და სოციალური დეტერმინიზმის შესახებ და სრულიად ლოგიკურად წარმოაჩენს რომ გარემოსთან ერთად გენებს არანაკლები მნიშვნელობა აქვს თავისუფალ ნებაზე და ქცევაზე.ეს არის ისეთი წიგნი რომელიც ერთი წაკითხვის შემდეგ არ უნდა დაივიწყო, რომელიც ყოველთვის უნდა გედოს "მაგიდაზე" რათა დროდადრო გადაიკითხო, თუნდაც იმიტომ რომ მუდმივად გადახედო იმ უამრავი ინფორმაციის განახლებას, ინტერნეტში თუ ბეჭდურ სამეცნიერო გამოცემებში, რომლებიც წიგნშია წარმოდგენილი.
Using a gene from each of the 23 pairs of chromosomes that make up our DNA as a launching point, Ridley discusses what we’ve learned about the history of the human race.
Some concepts about heredity are confirmed, while others are discarded.Through the Human Genome Project, scientists have mapped out the complete set of human genes.
nurture” argument on human behavior.Ridley is able to write about these technical discoveries and theories in layman’s terms.
And as a believer in free will, Ridley writes, “Heritability does not mean immutability.” You, not your genes, control your life.
:)"واقع الجينات والبيئات: متاهة من تفاعلات معقدة فيما بينها وليست بالحتمية ذات الاتجاه الواحد.السلوك الاجتماعي ليس بعض سلسلة خارجية من الأحداث تأخذ عقولنا وأجسادنا على حين غزة.وإنما هو جزء حميم من تركيبنا،وقد برمجت جيناتنا،لا لينتج عنها سلوك اجتماعي فحسب،وإنما ايضاً لتستجيب لهذا السلوك."من الممكن أن تُحَث الجينات على التغير بواسطة فعل واعٍ إرادي وبإرادة حرة." فقد يؤدي تغير ثقافي إلى تغير تطوري بيولوجي،فعلى سبيل المثال وُجد أن من لديهم أغلى تكرارية لهضم الحليب حتى بعد الطفولة،هم من كان لديهم تاريخ رعوي،كسكان افريقيا الوسطى وغرب أفريقيا،والايرلنديون والتشيك والاسبان" لدرجة أنهم يعتبرون أبطال هضم الحليب في العرق البشري.وفيما يتعلق بالعلاج الجيني، فقد رُفض بشدة ذات يوم، وكانت أول تجربة لعلاج جيني -بعد محاولات مستميتة- كان في سبتمبر عام 1990،لطفلة مريضة بمرض النقس الشديد للمناعة المشتركة،ولم يُعطِ شفاءا أكيداً وقتها، رغم أنه قد زاد من عدد خلايا الدم البيضاء..
The book might be slightly out of date but that's the only negative thing I can say about it. The amount of information and perspective I gained from this book truly surprised me. Highly recommended.
