https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8662312-breakthrough-advertising
I sometimes get stuck when writing anything.I keep this book on top of Webster's English Usage. I finally have found a book that lays out the critical tool set useful to the copywriter. When I get myself stuck or feel like I am in a corner, I will take a quick flip through this book and suddenly POP! the door is open! You know what I mean. I highly recommend this book.
Phenomenal book to break down the elements of copywriting.At first this book will seem overwhelming but the more I read it, the more my copy improves.I will definitely be rereading this several times over the next year.
A classic book on copywriting and advertising that I try to re-read every year or two. This book is more highlighted and underlined than any other book I own.
Eugene proves people never change.
Times may change and technology but the inner soul of humans will not.
The main thing this book portrayed is how most things are just a recreation of something that has already been created.
Eugene explains how to do this while making your product unique even though your audience is aware it may be purchased somewhere else.
In a world of parity this book shows you how to stand out.
Precisely that is what's in this book.
To be blunt, everyone on the planet needs to read this book.
Only reason it's 4/5 is because this book is very outdated. The concepts are timeless but uses old language/examples. Luckily human nature has not changed much since the writing. I had to translate the knowledge into modern language and have applied the concepts in digital marketing... Especially helpful in identifying and breaking down market segments, split testing, and improving copy.
wow. great book. best book on copywriting and marketing ive ever read.
One of the best marketing books of all time.
However, it's a wonderful book full of good, detailed advice on how to write successful ads and most of the principles can be still applied today.It really opened my eyes and helped me realize some serious mistakes I've done in advertising my services (although it's product oriented) and for that reason only I would happily rate it as 5.
However, I'm taking into account that many of the tricks presented are of no use today, especially on the Internet so I will give it a 4.I am not a copywriter but I do write my own ads and this book helped me a lot.
I strongly recommend the book to anyone writing ads and promotional material, not only people in the ad business and copywriting.
The book is written several decades ago and it talks about the state of advertisement at that time. However, you the important topics are still relevant today. Great summary of all the hooks and explanation of the methods to make someone to read an ad. If you are in the ad business it will help you improve your copy writing and if you are on the consumer side you will understand the hooks that are being used on you in every ad.
No matter how much this book costs, get it. Scrape the money together. Even the people who read it a few times still do not comprehend the power of the knowledge given in this book. This is a clinic on persuasion in print.At one point costed 900$ in Amazon because it was out of print.Breakthrough Advertising is back in print : https://www.breakthroughadvertisingbo... just 125$ for this gold mine book.
What an outstanding book! For years, I have seen the book described as a must-read for copywriters. Fortunately, Brian Kurtz (www.briankurtz.me) has brought the book out again in a great hardcover edition.I expect this is a business book that will reward multiple readings. It is dense with insight and has stood the test of time since its success in the 1960s.
No matter how much this book costs, get it. Scrape the money together. Even the people who read it a few times still do not comprehend the power of the knowledge given in this book. This is a clinic on persuasion in print.And like most great books, they come from older times. This book will shave years off your learning curve.
Just read it the first time. Probably going to read it again soon. There are so many informations... literally valuable insights till the last pages.Thanks to Brian Kurtz to make this book affordable again.
This is by far the best copywriting book I've ever read. In a field where you could go any direction with your copy, it gives you a map to make better decisions by understanding your market and your competition.
Though this book is now decades old, current day copywriters reference it ALL the time as their go-to book to learn copywriting expertise. I LOVE this book and it has made a huge impact on my own copywriting tasks.
By far the most sophisticated book on marketing I've ever read. Schwartz was ahead of his time! A big take away from this book is that it is not the job of the marketer to create desire. Rather, you must unearth already existing desires and channel them into action towards your product/service.
One of the best books on advertising
If you're in any of these fields, go, buy this book, and read it. It will change your views. - Marketing- Advertising- Selling- Non-fiction writing
THE BEST book on marketing and adversing ever written. Period.
So many great nuggets (granted that I'm just started down my copywriting journey). Definitely a book I will have to go back to in the future
Very good book, specially the phases of Market Sophistication. Not necessary a book for beginners.
Outstanding content.It should be a must read for any serious copywriter and business owner
Great book, a real classing for marketers. It talks about ad techniques from the 1920-1960ies - you must use fantasy on how to adapt this to nowadays. Still most principles are absolutely valid.
My copy cost me over $100 and was worth 10 times more.
One of the better advertising books I've ever read. Got a little complex at the end, so definitely need 2+ reads to understand the message.
هي هذه الرسالة إما أن تبيعك المنتج مباشرة أو أن ترميها في سلة المهملات وتنساها للأبد.إذن فإن عمل الكاتب التسويقي يجب أن يكون كاملاً ومتقناً وإلا فإنه لن يجد عيشه، وفي هذا الكتاب يخبرنا الكاتب الأسطوري يوجين شوارتز عن كل التقنيات والنظريات التي اعتمد عليها ليبيع ملايين المنتجات فقط عبر كتابة رسائل بريد.
يوجين في هذا الكتاب لا يخبرنا عن آرائه أو نظرياته الخاصة وما يحب هو أو يكره بل عن تجاربه ونتائج دراساته التي هي مبنية على السوق والزبائن والجمهور.
وميزانية التعليم عالية جداً إلى درجة أنه لا توجد شركة على الكوكب يمكنها تحمل هذه الميزانية.
Essential
Hard to review because I read this more for professional growth and career development than personal enjoyment. I would definitely recommend this to anyone in copywriting and advertising. My advice would be to look past the fact that the book is tailored more towards direct mail order and older advertisement and focus on the main tenants, which certainly carry over to the present time.
Stellar copywriting course - in a book
Hands down the best book on marketing and advertising I've read. Also the hardest book to finish - don't know why...
