https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25365667-ross-poldark
Um, yeah, then I decided I needed all of the books even though there is something going to happen that I didn't like but let the pictures do the talking =) *******LET ME JUST SAY THERE WILL BE SPOILERS*******Okay, so we have the beautiful Ross Poldark going off off to war thinking he would be coming home to his wonderful Elizabeth that he had fell in love with.....Uh, no.
Let me just add that some things turn around for Ross and Demelza.
Ross Poldark, published in 1945, tells the story of Ross, a British man in his twenties, from the time he returns from the war in America in 1783 until about four years later.
This is the story of how that happens.It's told in a very leisurely manner, and more than one reader has foundered on the slow pace.
Even if the plot is rather slow and meandering (and leaves a few plot threads hanging for resolution in later books), Ross Poldark has some lovely moments and great, detailed characters and settings that suck you in.
3/5 Stars ⭐ ⭐⭐“The greatest thing is to have someone who loves you and—and to love in return.” This was a very charming book with very charming characters. I had watched the show before I started with this series so I knew the characters and the plot pretty well. I have to admit, this is literally the first time I like the show more than the book. It took me by surprise.This book is about a man called Ross Poldark who after a grim war in America comes back to his home to find his father dead, th
I have to admit, this is literally the first time I like the show more than the book.
Then a girl named Demelza comes into his life and changes everything.I believe this book being old as fuck had a different writing style than I prefer.
Probably the pace was a tiny bit slower than I like, but it didn't get me bored at all.The relationship of Ross and Demelza was the best part of the book, it made my ship heart die.
I need to feel the hate for George in these books!
Not so the light of morning."Captain Ross Poldark is eager to return to his land and his love after fighting for the British in the Revolutionary War. He is jolted into reality when he finds that with the death of his father, his property has been neglected and ruined, and that his beloved is now engaged to his cousin.
I highly recommend the book (and most likely the series) for lovers of historical fiction and engaging family sagas.
This book is featured on this week's Shabby Sunday @ https://readrantrockandroll.com/2017/...It’s 1783, and Ross Poldark is returning home after fighting in the American Revolutionary War. When he arrives he learns that his father is dead, his copper mine is failing, and his sweetheart Elizabeth, whom he loves, is engaged to his cousin Francis.
Not only does she struggle with society, she struggles with herself because she knows Ross still loves Elizabeth and Demelza is the one who wants to be number one in Ross’s life.
The book is full of memorable characters with Demelza being my favorite.
I love having the alternative to TV and it is cool that we have some similar interests in books so that it easy to find ones we both want to listen to.3.5 to 4 StarsA couple years ago, my wife’s parents got the 1970s version of the Poldark mini-series.
While it all come to an interesting conclusion, the change of pace that far into the in the book kind of threw me a bit.We will continue in the series because, whether or not I enjoyed the first book or will continue to enjoy the series, I love spending time listening to books with my wife!
I was instantly drawn into the story of Ross Poldark, the young officer who returns to Cornwall after fighting in the Revolutionary War, sporting a scar on his face and a limp, to find that his father is dead, his family home is in ruins, and his love, the beautiful and genteel Elizabeth, is now engaged to his cousin.
How conflicted Ross continues to be over his feelings for Elizabeth, how there are so many different levels to his interactions with Demelza, how kindhearted Verity falls in love with a man who has a dark past which leads to discord in her family.
Graham is a very good writer and these books are full of powerful and descriptive pros which ignite the imagination - even if said imagination is that of a hopeless romantic who watches too much Masterpiece Theater and too many Lifetime movies.
Although written in the 1950's, Graham paints a rather accurate picture of life in Cornwall in the late 18th century, and I love this part of the part of the books as well.These may be written off as trashy love stories set in period, but I think they are very well written and very inciteful.
There is no farther to fall."And I've fallen into the depths of this historical fiction series by Winston Graham.
Elizabeth had believed that Ross was dead.
Marbles must be rolling in this girl's head as she willfully chooses Francis over the dashing, but broke, Ross.
I'm already into the second book of this series, Demelza.
I believe that once you pick up the first book in this series you will be drawn in as well.
And there's also the PBS version that adheres quite well to the book series.
Seriously, I have loved watching the Poldark series on PBS and I find the book it is based on to be just as interesting and fulfilling.
I will be reading the entire book series, although at what pace I am not sure.Book 1 deals with Ross Poldark, who comes home to England (Cornwall, no less) from the American Revolution to find that his father has died, his land is in complete disrepair, and his love is about to marry his cousin, Francis.
Ross appears to have picked up some ideas about freedom and equality while across the Atlantic and he finds himself outside the normal bounds of his class in his thinking.
He has all the gifts and skills you could possibly want in a novelist: he creates wonderful, well-drawn characters, he has a brilliant, accurate ear for dialogue, he writes beautiful, concise description, he creates dramatic, page-turning plots - what more could you want?
His plots are very dramatic - these believable, very real characters do things of quite breath-taking audacity which the author has the skill to develop thoroughly so that all the consequences are quite fully worked out.
If you are looking for a long, well-written, fully realised series of historical novels to sink into and enjoy, these are the books for you!Tim Vicary.
fuck this book.fuck this showfuck the day this story shat on my lifei don't care how hot this character isor wossiname from being humanwho always kinda looked like a concussed goat to me anywayall i know isthis one time this fictional person was more important than anything i am or could ever be or could ever have lostso this shitright herecan die in a dumpster firesurrounded by solemn hobosand like four confused hipsters who think they're at bonnaroothe end
Me ha encantado! Sobre todo la voz del narrador, que me ha recordado el estilo de Jane Austen; aunque ya aviso, la historia no tiene nada que ver con esta escritora. Y tampoco hay mucho romance, más bien, ofrece una visión de la Inglaterra de finales de 17... Eso sí, marvillosa!
When Ross and Demelza fell first in passion (the dress scene *swoon*) and then in love (the singing scene *sigh*), so did I with them.
Away from the TV show, the first book in the series, Ross Poldark, took a while to get going for me, probably because I was waiting impatiently for them to notice each other so I could re-live my favourite moments; Demelza's devotion and Ross's realisation are as much a joy to read as they are to watch.
Ross and Elizabeth don't have a single drop of chemistry, whereas Ross and Demelza crackle with it on every level.
Long story short, this book and the next five in the series have been on my shelves for 13 years.
I fell into this novel of eighteenth century Cornwall, and stayed there happily for a while, living life with Ross Poldark and his existing and cobbled together family.
One of the best things about the novel is that there are 11 more in the series, so I could turn the last page without feeling that I would lose the characters that I had grown to love.
And I can now watch the series, having the books as background.But the very best thing is that I now have a new literary crush.
It’s a credit to Graham’s skill as a writer that I was actually interested in the sections on copper mining.In the first chapter of the book--and first episode of the TV series--Ross Poldark returns to Cornwall after fighting with the British in the American Revolution, only to find his father dead, his property in ruins, and his girlfriend engaged to his cousin.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || Pinterest💙 I read this for the Unapologetic Romance Readers' New Years 2018 Reading Challenge, for the category of: Literary Romance. For more info on this challenge, click here. 💙  I was curious about this book before the TV show came out, but the TV show made me even more curious. Aidan Turner is gorgeous, and it seemed like PBS was running with Ross Poldark to compete with Starz's Outlander, albeit without all the torture and rape. A Georgian-era
Hell yes!ROSS POLDARK is not a very long book but it took me forever to read.
In fact, I think it took me longer to read than OUTLANDER did, which is hilarious because OUTLANDER is twice as long (at least) as this book.
It also prompts him to intervene when a man is caught poaching for his starving family.There's some action in this book, but it's interspersed between long periods of nothing.
It wasn't awful and I liked Ross Poldark, the cranky but well-meaning old drunk, but the story was boring and the writing didn't blow me away.
In a lot of the historical fiction books I've read, it seemed as if the author hated to waste the hours spent researching the period and instead, chose to incorporate what they'd read in lengthy text-book style asides about contextual events which really detracted from the novel itself.
However, since forming that impression I've read some excellent historical fiction (e.g., "Year of Wonders" by Geraldine Brooks) where the book is clearly well-researched in that it remains true to the period, but the focus is on the story itself.
I feel that this book is another example of great historical fiction.
Aidan Turner as Captain Ross Poldark Eleanor Tomlinson as Demelza Jack Farthing as George Warleggan Kyle Soller as Francis Poldark Warren Clarke as Charles Poldark Phil Davis as Jud Beatie Edney as Prudie Alex Arnold as Jim Carter Robert Daws as Dr Choake Robin Ellis as Reverend Mr Halse Heida Reed as Elizabeth Ruby Bentall as Verity Richard Harrington as Captain Andrew Blamey Tristan Sturrock as Zacky Martin John Hollingworth as Captain Henshawe Gracee O'Brien as Jinny Martin Harriet Ballard as Ruth Teague Jenny Coverack as Connie CarterI know, I know - no-one can replace Angharad Rees, especially not this scrawny tall piece of womenwork - but hey!
It won the poll so I was motivated in reading it.ROSS POLDARK(The Poldark Saga: #1)Written by Winston Graham1945 (Reissued: 2015); Pan/Sourcebook Landmark (393 Pages)Genre: historical fiction, romance, saga, series, family saga, politics, war, fictRATING: ★★★★1/2"Cornwall, 1783-1787Tired from a grim war in America, Ross Poldark returns to his land and family, only to find his father has died, his estate is derelict, and the girl he loved is engaged to another.
I could reread this book a few time like I did with Outlander.
I also liked that Graham did not turn characters in caricatures or one dimensional.
The sun had gone down, and the brows of the sky were dark.And Ross again knew himself to be happy- in a new and less ephemeral way than before.He thought, If we could only stop life for a while I would stop here.
♥♥ sigh ♥♥I would not be totally truthful if I did not mention that, had I not watched the tv adaptation first, I might not have loved this book as much as I did.
Now in reading the series, I can picture the gorgeous, brooding Ross Poldark along with all the other characters whom I have met, as well as look forward to meeting new players to come.
Brilliant!!!
My mum loves the tv series so got herself this one and got a copy for me as well! Now I can read it and imagine Aidan Turner as I do *wink wink*
With so much clout behind it, who could not be tempted to see what the original novel was all about?Set in Cornwall, Royal Army officer Captain Ross Poldark returns home a scarred and weary soldier from fighting in the American Revolutionary War. It is a disheartening homecoming.
With the help of two of his father’s idle servants, Jud and Prudie Paynter and a street urchin turned kitchen maid Demelza Carne, Ross fights to rebuild his pride and his family fortune.“Looking east, upon Hendrawna Beach, the sea was very clam today: a smokey grey with here and there patches of violet and living, moving green.
4.5 I really enjoyed this, it was such a great escape! I have already ordered the 2nd book in the series.
Buddy read with some friends in The Reading for Pleasure Book Club.
I had not seen the series on Masterpiece - but, I had friends who liked it.
Everyone was already on to the second book.
The second book, which I am on now, is her story.
Even if you don't usually read Historical Fiction - you will fall for the characters in this series and want to hear their story.
This will be one of my favorite reads for 2017.
So glad my buddies decided to read it and let me tag along.
A very pleasurable read!
Ross Poldark is historical drama/romance that reads as realistic historical fiction not as romantic chic-lit. It has very realistic feel to it, mainly because all characters are flawed, multi-dimensional and brilliantly written. I really liked that. I will take grey character over one-dimensional one any day. I love historical family sagas and Poss Poldark is a promising start to Poldark series. I definitely plan t read next books very soon!
I have not been in the least disappointed with this the first book in the series written by Winston Graham.In this novel, we encounter Ross Poldark newly returned from the war in the American colonies to find the love of his life, Elizabeth, engaged to his cousin, Frances, his father dead, and his estate in ruins.
Time moves forward for all the Poldarks and eventually Ross, because of a growing liking for Demelza marries her and takes on the job of raising Demelza up to his station.
Una agradable sorpresa, especialmente por el modo de narrar la historia, muy ágil y sin entretenerse en dar excesivos detalles.Me ha encantado Ross, es el tipo de hombre que levanta una ceja y me sube las enaguas hasta las orejas.Muy recomendable si quieres unas enaguas no guarrers pero con un protagonista digno de ellas.
This was SO. GOOD. I'm 100% in love with the TV show, and I was surprised at how much this felt like watching the first half, when everything is good and Ross is first falling in love with Demelza. Ross and Demelza are such an OTP, I can't wait to read (and watch) more!
