https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2880.Bleach_Volume_01
And for those of you currently reading the series but not yet finished with all the books, you will be blown away by Tite Kubo's advancement in skill!
Even when I thought (after reading the first book) there was no room for Tite Kubo to improve, since he was already such an amazing mangaka.
In all previous mangas I've read, the mangaka will stick to a few sets of outfits for his characters to wear, but Tite Kubo goes all out!
I feel as if I am rambling, but the point is, this is a truly amazing manga, and that it should be read right away!
Naruto, One Piece, even Full Metal Alchemist, may have less exiting action overall but have bits of strategy in them and the story is definitely going faster and more interesting, with far more character development and immersion, and far less inconsistencies and plot holes.
Although the overall character drawings have improved over the years, at the same time the aesthetics in atmosphere-building that made the initial chapters so great have almost disappeared, while the snail-slow plot makes even the battles to feel like mostly aimless blahblah with stiff characters instead of good choreography.
I also love how he gives insults to people like diz,And damn if that didn't tingle the things that should tingle in me.
He used to be brash and cocky (he still is) but he lost that idiocy stuff that most main characters have.Unlike Naruto whom I never liked (the character, not the anime) because I find him annoying even in Shippuden, Ichigo became more cool and thoughtful and I'm like having orgasm when he fights with some bad guys in the latest Arc. Kisuke Uruhara100 out of 100.
Other things:There are some mind-blowing secrets in this one and major major major changes happened in the latest ARC.
I started off with the anime, but I was so impressed I went out and bought the manga, too.
Being whole-heartedly American, I like my comics to have bright, flashy colors, but to make up for that, Bleach has given me plenty of chestily-endowed women to make up for the lack of flesh tones.
If you're a comics fan, or a anime fan, or a manga fan, or just looking for an interesting, out-of-this world story along the lines of DBZ or a number of other similarly themed Japanese titles, give Bleach a try.
I know the manga continued on so I wanted to start reading it.
This volume makes me want to watch the anime from the beginning again.
I want to see Ichigo's real ending...although I already know what it is!
When Ichigo's family gets attacked by hollows.
She tells Ichigo he can become a soul reaper.
Ichigo decides to save him and sends him to the soul society.
Her brother was brought to his families clinic.When Orihime and Tatsuki are attacked by a hollow Ichigo comes to save them.
At the very end he gets attacked by a hollow.
Fifteen year old Ichigo Kurosaki has the ability to see, touch, and talk to spirits.
Ichigo has been able to communicate with them since he was a little kid.
Ichigo lives with his two sisters and his father.
The important part in this book is when he meets Rukia Kuchiki.
Rukia is a Soul Reaper that changes his life.
......................................................................It was love at first sight.
I loved the book the moment I read it.
The drawings are nice as well as the plot.
There's even anime to go with it.
All the characters are unique in their own way.
All Souls Day read about soul-reaping.Not my preferred art style, but well executed. No idea what the title signifies.Looking forward to finding out what's going on with the possessed parakeet.
This is one of those series I've heard so much about but put off diving into mainly due to the first few pages I always read in the store never snagging my interest enough but I took the plunge anyways and I am glad I did.
Yet the story still sucked me in and once Ichigo had some time to grow on me (and decrease in annoyance) I was devouring the final pages and wondering how long until I can get my hands on Volume 2.
Even during the short length of this first volume, Ichigo grew immensely as a character and that is the main reason why I wish to continue the story.
Oh my goodness, I loved this book! This is one of the best manga series I've ever read. Kurosaki Ichigo has quickly become one of my top favorite manga characters, as well. I loved his selflessness in protecting his family. I think the part where he stabbed himself with the Rukia's zanbakutou (sword) was very poignant. To me, it was a foreshadowing of all the times Ichigo would willingly risk his life to protect someone else. Action sequences are great; story is unique and gripping; art very good. I'd definitely recommend it.
3.5Okay, I really liked this and all, but now freaking way am I reading all 600+ and counting chapters of this.  So, I read till as much as I could take at once (chapter 137). Maybe I'll continue this in the future *shrug*Not much to say, actually. The concept is not something I'm completely unfamiliar of and the characters were pretty good. I liked Ichigo and his band of friends, and I liked the humor they created together.
Absolutely incredible!
Unlike Death Note and certain other manga titles, Bleach isn't listed in 500 Essential Graphic Novels, but I was pleasantly surprised in reading this series' first volume.The eponymous character, a fifteen-year-old redhead boy (whose hair colour is natural, not bleached) named Ichigo Kurosaki, has the ability to see and speak with ghosts.
Unlike Ryuk, the apple-eating shinigami in the Death Note series, with his frightful skull-like face, sutured flesh and towering body, Rukia appears to be an ordinary fifteen-year-old girl, yet she has already lived ten of Ichigo's lifetimes (p.
It's not a bad premise at all, and for this volume it holds up nicely.The problem is that the series itself diverges so wildly from its premise and is bloated and filled with endless story arcs, manga volumes that record events lasting a few seconds for a whole chapter, and constant "power-ups." It's actually worse than Dragon Ball Z in terms of filler, and it shows no signs of stopping or getting better.
But Bleach is the worst of the lot, even more so than One Piece, Vol. 1: Romance Dawn.So while I can say this first volume is good, I can't rate it highly because the series as a whole quickly moves away from the premise and invalidates what could have been a great manga.
Now as the series finished this year, I thought that I should finally starting Bleach because I never read it before. I liked this first volume definitely enough to continue, we'll see how the story will development. I really like Rukia's character by the way.
I like Ichigo- he's really cool and acts all tough but he's actually a real teddy bear XD
LOVED I!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Now I’ve finished the first book, definitely liked it.What’s it about?The main character sees spirits and ghosts.
Surprisingly emotional at times.The art is good.There’s some good manga action.This book is pretty funny at times despite the dark themes.This is a very unpredictable story, never gonna know what happens next.There’s some pretty cool monsters in this volume!Why not 5 stars:The characters aren’t very interesting.
The main character is sorta cool but often whiny.
There’s one interesting character in this book (the (view spoiler)[ former soul reaper  (hide spoiler)]).Overall:I definitely recommend this one and will be continuing the series.
this was mine and my brother's second favourite anime ever (at the time we watched it..its still for me but dont know about him) and like naruto we watched 5-7 episodes a day. i am pretty sure i read fanfiction for this too but i am not really sure.
Good start. Brings back memories from watching the anime so many years ago!
The story follows 15-year-old high school student, Ichigo Kurosaki, who has the strange ability to see the spirits of those who haven't passed on to the afterlife.
After a fight with a dreadful spirit known as a Hollow, Rukia bestows her powers unto Ichigo in which he rightfully hands the Hollow a solid whooping and eventually destroys it.
For however long it takes, Ichigo will learn from Rukia about how to be a proper Soul Reaper and protect the town and those he loves.In terms of the manga, it has a very solid stream about it.
Ichigo Kurosaki is a 15 year old (why are they always 15???) student that has the ability to see, hear, and touch spirits.
His ability leads soul reaper, Rukia, to him.
When she is injured in battle she unknowingly transfers her soul reaping powers to him and thus begins his adventure.This has such an interesting story and seeing as it is amazingly popular I'm hoping/assuming the author does great things with it.
I very much disliked Ichigo's whining and selfish act (it felt very cardboard and fake to me) but I'm guessing he gets over that as he turns into super awesome badass Soul Reaper Man. I hope.Very much enjoyed.
Bleach is very popular, and it's easy to see why. There's some very cool paranormal elements, plenty of action, and mostly likeable characters. I just didn't get into the story enough to stick around for the 40+ volumes to follow.
Didn't start this until today, like what? xD I love this manga already!! I'm watching the Anime at the same time but damn this is good. I love it and Ichigo is amazing and who doesn't like his personality xD<3<3Rukia is pretty funny too and I also like Chad and Orihime is pretty cool too ^^<3
Haha this is actually really entertaining!
Such a good book.
Un primer tomo interesante, que pese a ser algo forzado, muestra una interesante historia :)
Но я хочу чтобы вы поняли меня, поэтому начну с самого начала, и да это совместный отзыв и на аниме и на мангу.Мое знакомство с Хлоркой началось ОЧЕНЬ давно.
Но, в один судьбоносный вечер к Ичиго, не осознавая того, что он может видеть призраков, приходит Бог Смерти.
Только вот все ли так просто?
Нет, это лишь первая ступенька хитрого, сложного плана, так что Ичиго и его друзьям предстоит пройти много испытаний, обрести новые силы и отправиться в долгие странствия.Каждый из Эспады символизруют одну из причин Смерти.
Так же и с сюжетом.Ее рука, что тянется ко мне...и есть душа.Я стану шинигами.
Although a fun read, for me this is one of those cases where I prefer the anime versus the book version (or manga if you want to be specific).
I think the anime paces things out a bit better and I think it's basically the difference between manga and anime in terms of delivering the story.
A fun whacky read, give it a browse to make sure you like how the story flows and if you feel it a bit too jumpy, definitely check out the anime, which I highly recommend.
Sanırım aradığım manga serisini buldum. Bir süredir hem eğlenceli hem sürükleyici manga serisi arıyordum. Geçen başladığım Tokyo Ghoul'u sevsem de çok sarmamıştı ki Bleach çok iyi geldi. Karakterleri ve hiikayesini beğendim şimdilik, ilk sayı içinde hem dolu hem de sürükleyici idi. Shinigamiler ve ruhların olduğu bir seri, burada Shinigamiler Ölüm Defteri'ndekilerden biraz farklı. Yazar bir çok farklı kavram ve karakteri bir arada okura sunmuş ancak bunu başarılı bir şekilde hikayeye yedirmiş. Şimdilik seride ilerlemek istiyorum.
Another great manga series that inserts itself nicely among my other reading, giving me a surprisingly enjoyable taste of action, characters, humor, and story.
From Ichigo's quiet Japanese hometown, to the perilous realm of the Soul Society and beyond, this story is amazingly well-crafted for something I originally expected to be nothing more than fights.
More than that, the characters are each well-developed with their own histories, motives, and personality quirks, from Ichigo and his assorted group of friends to the Soul Reapers of the spirit world.Overall, a well-balanced manga that includes both bloody fights and comedy, touching relationships and epic confrontations.
