https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33810.Plum_Island
Keep in mind that I read this book a little over a decade and a half ago, yet the story is as vivid today as it was then.
That is the genius that is Nelson Demille.The book starts with a convalescing John Corey, formerly of the NYPD, who wants nothing more than to drink beer while relaxing at his Uncle's Long Island beach house.
When two prominent scientists (who worked at a secret research facility on Plum Island) are murdered, John is drafted to investigate the deaths.
With any review I do, I ask myself a single question: "How much do you care whether or not people read this book." This time, the answer is not so simple.
Basically, this guy writes really verbose books for middle-aged men.
There's one point where a woman says, (I'm paraphrasing) "You're not like most men, John.
Most men want to know more about me.
You know that one stupid-as-fuck friend we all have?
But if you're in a mood to drink thirty beers and burn some shit, Nelson's definitely your go to guy.
No book of this kind should be almost 600 pages.
Guys have Nelson DeMille.
What a waste of time.I was expecting some big story or conspiracy to unfold, as that's what I was lead to believe by reading the back cover.
Too bad, the problem and investigation part of the story filled probably only half of the book.
Though thankfully this main character's pretty funny, so I did find myself still being entertained at times.
However, back to my expectation about how the story's going to unfold, I got disappointed again.
The way the story unfolds is slow; and there's lots of "spaces" in the story that are filled with the main character's conversation with himself.
John is reluctant to help, and the only reason he does help is because he knows the victims.The case itself, a wife and husband are found outside their home dead.
The next door neighbor insists that they came home late on their boat, but never heard the gun going off.
The problem that makes this case so dangerous, the couple worked on Plum Island which contains a virus and bacteria research facility.
I just found out that this is the first in a series, so I'm going to look into the next book.
Indulge my rant, if you will...Plum Island is a biosafety level 3 lab off the coast of the north fork of LI that studies animal deseases like Foot & Mouth, Mad Cow, etc., and does everything they can to keep these diseases out of the US and protect the livestock in our country.
Ridiculous.The main character of the book is trying to solve a murder, but don't bother reading the story if you don't like chauvinistic males who characterize themselves as close-minded pricks who only want a good lay.
Meet John Corey. He's a wise-cracking, know-it-all detective recovering at his deceased relative's house in the Long Island area.Wouldn't you know it there he is minding his own business when all of a sudden . . . you get the idea.Well crafted murder mystery. DeMille gets the subculture of Long Island. OVERALL GRADE: A minus to A.
I came very close to giving it 5 stars and am still thinking it over (I reserve the right to come back and up the rating if I decide to, LOL).This is an excellent book in a genre that I don't usually find my favorite.
What else, well the plot is a good one with hook that while not new can be tricky to use well (view spoiler)[ I mean pirate treasure can get hokey fast (hide spoiler)].
DeMille did a good job and as unpleasant as it is to lose a character you like It shows I got involved in the book.Doesn't happen to me often in this context.
It seems that he hadn't wanted to write a series, but there were too many of his readers who wanted another John Corey book.
He'd been afraid of his female readers; what they'd think of John as a character.
As much of a jerk he can be, it made him who he is, and I don't think I could have asked for a better character.I thought Beth as a good equal for him.
I think it made him a better person.There was a twist in this plot, one that I didn't see coming, and at first, I had the 'yeah, right' thought about it.
Muito bom..Chega a uma altura da história que não se consegue parar de ler.
There is so much time spent on just how "witty" and "likeable" and street smart John Corey (our hero) is that you can't help but get the sense that DeMille wishes he were him.
Here is a list of adjectives you could apply to him easily (some of which he applied to himself directly): sexist, chauvinist, elitist, crude, rude, arrogant, offensive, antagonistic, alcoholic, cocksure, egotistic, and obnoxious.The problem with this is that DeMille presents most of these attributes as endearing, suggesting that Corey's just a regular guy you'd like to have a beer with.
Well, actually, one last thing, because it's a big one.***HERE THERE BE SPOILERS***At the end of the novel, Corey chases down the bad guy, intent on killing him.
One of my favorite all-time thrillers, this is a fantastic beach book with intrigue, smart-alec humor, biological warfare concerns, and even a touch of love.
As a fan of everything Nelson Demille had written to that point, I read Plum Island in 1997, the very month it was published and chomped it down.Since then, Demille has lately resurrected the main character John Corey another five times as the star of other thrillers, and you may have bumped into him.
Except, of course, the constable knows zippo about murder.Because the husband and wife both work at Plum Island (former site for biological warfare research), the feds slip into the investigation under the auspices of the Department of Agriculture.
I also liked Emma, the the town's president of the Historical Society who had a lot of knowledge about 'old' Plum Island, Captain Kidd, Battles won and lost, Treasure maps and who settled where first.
It was a little sad, scary, had some suspense toward the end but had it not been for the humor of John, it would have been a tiring story with a lot of background and very long.
I'd recommend this book to anyone who likes historical mystery thrillers, with a bit of humor and biological science mixed in.
Something, Whatever, You Know - 4 Stars  Despite a vocabulary that included more non-specific words than a valley girl, I found myself amused and entertained by John Corey. Both irreverent and brilliant, Corey is one of the most entertaining protagonists I have read in a long time. Because of my preference for reading lesser know authors, I have put off reading this series for a long time. Fortunately, it was well written and entertaining and I will certainly continue the series. Plot Summary
Despite a vocabulary that included more non-specific words than a valley girl, I found myself amused and entertained by John Corey.
Both irreverent and brilliant, Corey is one of the most entertaining protagonists I have read in a long time.
It becomes clear that the murders are tied in some way to plum island and John is brought in by the local sheriff to advise on the case.
Prior to this novel, I did not know that a place called Plum Island existed.
Final Thoughts Overall,  Plum Island  in an entertaining and very well written novel.
An excellent murder mystery! This was my first book by Nelson Demille, I had heard many good things about the John Corey series, so I decided to give Plum Island a shot, and I wasn't disappointed. I love his writing style and how he involves some comedy in his books, I even laughed out loud at some of the funny parts.John Corey to me was like a Bruce Willis type guy, I was really impressed with his character. I look forward to reading more by Nelson Demille!
Any book can be written in any style.
Books that imitate life.
It can crop up in any book.
Fortunately, Plum Island is not like that; it is simply peachy.
Oh, and if you want to read this book, you can omit Chapter 13.
In the past I would take issue with a hero like John Corey.
Nevertheless, I was dreading being cooped up in John Corey's mind for 500 pages.
Although I AM wondering if I should give this book a perfect score.
You know I still think that John Corey is not real.
So there will be no re read.
My first book my author Nelson De Mille, and also my first with the great witty character John Corley, and a great end to the 2014 book pal reads for me, so thank you Book Pal friends.Wounded in the line of duty, NYPD homicide cop John Corey is convalescing in rural eastern Long Island when an attractive young couple he knows is found shot to death on the family patio.
His manners are scratched and his jokes are annoying to everyone (except to himself and the reader), but still comes off as an intelligent and competent vacationing cop who gets embroiled in the mystery involving a couple who worked on Plum Island- an animal disease compound that hides more than Ebola and Anthrax.
I read this a long time ago and liked it. Don't understand why it is being touted as a new book?
"I gripped my right ear and twisted, which is how I tune out idiots."Unfortunately, it's apparent that everyone except John Corey (our fearless, convalescing-from-getting-shot-on-the-job narrator/hero) is an idiot.
I sorta wish that his ear had been turned off for some larger chunks of the book -- because the reader has to wade through a lot of red herrings and schtuff to get to the meat of the book.For example, getting a tour of Plum Island, the spot where world-threatening viruses are studied and possibly stolen, shouldn't be so long and tedious.
I mean, I got the gist before they left Plum Island...which might explain why a lot of the copious detail felt, well, copious.
Thanks a lot, no really, thanks!John Corey is a smart ass cop, recovering from multiple holes in his body caused by small pieces of high speed lead.
Meanwhile, Corey is hired at a $1 a month to assist on a double homicide of scientists (a married couple) who worked at the Plum Island (real nasty, secret, ominous, "we don't do biological warfare") Animal Research Center.
She had that, too.I only took most of a star away for the end of the book, Corey gets way out of control for a cop and the frenetic chase scene really didn't need to go so over the top.
But I will be buying more of DeMille's John Corey series, darn it.
I was hoping that both of the main characters (especially the narrator) would drown so the book would end sooner.
3  stars. An enjoyable escape, good suspense. A couple parts felt too lengthy and dragged a bit.STORY BRIEF:John Corey is a New York City homicide detective who was shot in April. He has been convalescing for several months at his Uncle’s home on Long Island, not far from Plum Island. Plum Island is run by the U.S. Dept. of Agriculture to study vaccines and viruses like Ebola and Anthrax. Tom and Judy Gordon were scientists working on Plum Island and were killed. The local sheriff hires John as
A couple parts felt too lengthy and dragged a bit.STORY BRIEF:John Corey is a New York City homicide detective who was shot in April.
Government agents make it difficult to investigate things on Plum Island.
John meets and interacts with Emma who works for the historical society and Detective Beth Penrose also investigating the murders.This is the first book in the John Corey series.REVIEWER’S OPINION:It’s an enjoyable escape.
There was almost too much talk about Plum Island while John was visiting.
I think I prefer it as an audiobook rather than reading the book.It’s told in first person by John, a jaded, cynical, smarta** cop.
I usually read 2-3 books per week but this is the FIRST ONE BY NELSON DEMILLE.
Finally my daughter passed along this book and I thoroughly enjoyed it.
I enjoyed the characters, the dialogue, plot and certainly the humor.
Mr. DeMille is just an excellent storyteller.
The book was written in l997, so I have a lot of catching up to do with this author.There are good guys and bad guys herein but good luck figuring out who is who.
John Corey, is a NYPD homicide detective who is convalescing from wounds that he received on the job.
Not entirely, but painfully close to being 100% awful.
Even taking into account the not-PC era during which it was written, this was offensive...
in too many ways and on multiple levels.
The writing was very inconsistent - in chapter 16, the coarse NYC detective suddenly switches from his usual sarcastic, hard-boiled, sexist persona to sounding like a shrill teenage girl.
The dead characters had more depth than the living ones - virtually no-one seemed plausible.
The gut-wrenching (literally) climactic scene was, well, stupid.
Ridiculously insipid dialogue.
The only redeeming feature was the mildly interesting plot, but even it lacked effective telling.
In Goldküste (Plum Island), dessen deutscher Titel auf das Mordmotiv anspielt, beschränkt sich auf NDM auf eine Erzählperspektive und einen Helden, den man mehr hassen muss als sämtliche Superschurken.
Da die ganze Zeit ein Sturm tobt und Corey mehr Ego als Erfahrung mit Rennboten oder den örtlichen Gewässern hat, gesellt sich so etwas wie eine komisch aufgeladene Spannung zum Finale.Fazit: Den Plot hätte man auf 150 Seiten abhandeln können, der Rest sind Coreys Mätzchen.
4.5 StarsNelson DeMille has created a wonderful character - John Corey!
"I think I'm in love." Corey isn't your usual loner, introverted, and serious dark homicide detective.
Being in his head for over 600 pages was fun and I've never laughed so hard during a novel in a long time, even though the plot line was serious, deadly serious.Tom and Judy Gorgon are good friends of convalescing NYPD Detective John Corey.
John Corey doesn't believe either of these theories and is determined to find out what happened to his friends.
He uses the first person POV and it was a treat and hoot to be in John Corey's head.
In July of 2017, I chanced upon John Corey, the character in DeMille’s main series, in the collection of short mysteries of that year entitled Matchup.
So, I read the first book of the series, Plum Island.
That sold me and I then read straight through all of the books in the series.Plum Island (Corey Book 1) is a touch predictable in the sense that it plays off of the germ warfare facility on that island, but it nevertheless achieves a fresh arc – involving buried treasure, no less – and puts former NYPD detective John Corey on full display.
A protagonist to die for. Bruce Willis's comeback movie, just waiting to be made.
Corey, a rather sarcastic and humorous individual is approached by Sylvester Maxwell the Chief of Police in Southold Township in Suffolk County, who asks for his assistance with the murder of two Ph.D. biologists who conducted biological research on Plum Island, Drs. Tom and Judy Gordon.
The story evolves at a measured pace, and the reader will be surprised by the number of twists and turns it takes.Overall, PLUM ISLAND measures up to DeMille’s previous efforts be it a John Corey novel, writing about Vietnam or the myriad of topics he has produced.
John Corey is a NYPD homicide detective who was shot three times in the line of duty and is staying at his uncle's old Victorian on the North Shore of Long Island while he convalesces.
In truth, I think DeMille intended for this character to be annoying, but as a result I just couldn't quite connect with him.
I think one of my favorite lines that I have ever read came when John says, "It occurred to me that the problem with doing nothing is not knowing when you are finished." If the book had been filled with gems like that, I would have loved it.
This book started out needlessly verbose, and languished far too long on its tour of Plum Island, which encompassed six chapters and over 100 pages alone (view spoiler)[And had almost nothing to do with the actual mystery.
Add to that, the main character, NYPD detective John Corey, was as irritating and grating to me as the book's first-person narrator as he was to every single character in the book, even the ones he was trying to sleep with.At one point, these complaints almost led me to abandon the book, unfinished, which is something I rarely do, but, in hindsight, I am glad I didn't.
I hope John Corey turned down the snide commentary in future books though, as he was a bit much to take.
