https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34201164-the-rooster-bar
Very disappointing Horrible unlikable idiotic criminal main characters; barely fleshed out plot; I had to force myself to finish it. I cannot believe John Grisham wrote this. Total waste of time (and money!).
Oh, Grisham......You are like the gentleman caller who promises wine and roses, but in the aftermath, there's a bit of a dull headache and the barb of the thorn.My legs are dangling off a barstool in the ol' Rooster Bar. There's plenty to ponder here.
Fellow occupants Mark, Todd, and Zola are in their third year of law school at Foggy Bottom (Yep).
But these law students, along with their buddy Gordy, are drowning in student loan debts.
And there's plenty of wheeling and dealing going on here.John Grisham seems to be re-creating himself in these later years.
More disgruntled lawyer-types from Grisham doing questionable lawyer-type stuff.
His recent efforts have been both good (Camino Island) and disappointing (The Whistler).
Luckily this one falls into the good category.
While the series of events within are far fetched (as they often are with Grisham), I did not have a problem accepting them and enjoying the story.
Sometimes if they are too far fetched or totally ridiculous, they are too distracting.
If you are a fan of Grisham's legal dramas, you know what you are you are getting into and I can almost guarantee you are going to enjoy.
I can not hold with the idea of would be pseudo lawyers pulling a scam on both unsuspecting clients and also corporations even if they are not on the up and up.Perhaps my attitude toward this book is influenced by the fact that my eldest daughter is an attorney.
She worked hard through law school while holding a full time job, passed the bar in both NY and DC, and is paying back her student loans and oh by the way, she has a job.This book seemed to glorify the three main characters for pulling a scam.
Let’s call it 3.5 starsJohn Grisham is back with yet another new take on the legal profession, shining lights where there has only been darkness, while entertaining readers in equal measure.
The collection of other characters remain stellar, as Grisham brings even more to the table and forces the reader to go through all the ups and downs that accompany Russian Roulette legal practice.
There is something here that cannot be dismissed and building on all the varied aspects of the story to create a checkerboard of drama and entertainment, Grisham keeps the reader in the middle of all the action.
I was so looking forward to this book.
I usually love reading John Grisham’s legal thrillers.
The Rooster Bar started slowly and soon was all over the place.
The social issues , which the author is known to address , were all over the place and there were too many diversions along the way.
The characters were shallow and I didn’t like any of them.
I understood their plight and empathized for a while until I just couldn’t stand any of them.
This book was a major disappointment.
I felt that Mr Grisham was churning out a book to beet a deadline.
Grisham's writing never disappoints! The Rooster Bar is atmospheric, deep, well-detailed and gripping. I feel though like I'll soon be in the same boat as the main characters, as I'll have to borrow at least $70,000 in student loans for law school in the next few years. Scary as hell! This book is impressive though, and it reminded me of the early 2000's Canadian film The Last Casino, with young, naive students enchanted and later horrified by the prospect of money and the ways in which a scam can warp altruism into corruption and deception.
(Warning, this review contains spoilers)(view spoiler)[I was so excited at the start of this novel because it felt like old school John Grisham.
We are presented with four student friends who have all been tricked into taking out massive student loans for a law degree from a joke of a law school that will end up leaving them jobless and over a quarter of a million in debt.
Instead, we get a story about how these three students decide to drop out of law school just one semester before graduation and start practising law illegally.
The Rooster Bar is a tale of four friends attending law school when they figure out the loans they took out for the second rate school is somewhat of a scam. They devise a plan to expose the shady lenders. They're going to pretend to be lawyers working for a firm. Nothing is real, it's all made up. A few of the characters have their own challenges going on. In the end it all ties together and it's good fun lawyer reading. Grisham can be hit or miss for me. This was a hit.
The three characters were amusing in their shenanigans and their banter was entertaining.
Most are going to admit wasn’t very thrilling as some of his legal thrillers but it offered a quick, entertaining story.
I remember reading some stuff on how some people are considering law school to be a Ponzi scheme and also the Atlantic article (was researching stuff for a legal course awhile back) on the Law School scam that inspired Grisham to write the book.
It’s rather interesting reading if you are interested it is readily available online.My quick and simple overall: good but not great.
John Grisham takes on for-profit law schools, and wins!"The Rooster Bar" is about a group of law school students who realize they've been scammed, and then try to do something about it.
Besides, they doubt they could even pass the bar exam because their law school has such low standards.I don't read a lot of Grisham, but I picked up this one because I was interested in his take on for-profit schools.
He came up with some good plot twists, and while I don't condone the fraudulent actions the students take to try and get even, it was an enjoyable ride of a novel.
4.5 Stars  #1 New York Times bestselling author, John Grisham returns following Camino Island  with his 25th novel THE ROOSTER BAR — a legal thriller exploring conspiracies inside for-profit law schools and the lives it destroys in this modern-day scandal ripped from today’s headlines.Inspired by an article  in the Atlantic called “The Law-School Scam,” a lengthy investigation of for-profit law schools, the author takes off an inside look at corruption in the legal field and student loans.Gordy, Mark, Todd, and Zola  each have their own stories and how they landed at Foggy Bottom— a third-tier for-profit law school.
It didn't exactly thrill me or delight me, but it was an enjoyable way to pass some reading time and kept my attention throughout.The focus is on businesses passing themselves off as schools (here it's a D.C. law school) which really are only in it for the money and do not prepare it's students for actual careers, at all.
In this case, four third-year students are among the many who have each accumulated close to a quarter million dollars in college loans, with no foreseeable way of paying the money back.
(hide spoiler)] That was my main reason for not loving the story.
John Grisham - Group  This is another great Grisham book with a easy theme to follow & one of today's greatest legal crime - "For-Profit Law Schools". NY times & John Grisham's CBS interview links at the bottom of this review you must visit!John Grisham link talks of the book. I feel it could be made into another of his great movies.This book is new, why are aren't more of us reading it?!The "NY Times newspaper (Aug. 15, 2017) For profit Charlotte School of Law closes" link shows how t
I feel it could be made into another of his great movies.This book is new, why are aren't more of us reading it?!The "NY Times newspaper (Aug. 15, 2017) For profit Charlotte School of Law closes" link shows how today's college costs are unrealistic.
Hinds Rackley's Swift Bank owns the college & has over $4.2 billion profit providing their POOR Law School educations with student loan scams.Mark Frazier, Todd Lucero, Zola Maal & Gordy Tanner owe over $900,000 together.
(hide spoiler)]YOU TUBE link to watch - John Grisham's interview on how For-Profit College debt crisis inspired The Rooster Bar (CBS This Morning)NY Times newspaper (Aug. 15, 2017) For profit Charlotte School of Law closes
4 Stars. Surprisingly enjoyable.
57 years ago, readers were introduced to the upright, morally independent attorney Atticus Finch.
There is little discussion of the people they have scammed, and the parents of the dead baby are portrayed as culpable themselves for waiting so long to seek legal help.
A fantasy ending to real world problems.None of the attorneys in this book come off well.
Other attorneys are trapped hustling at hospitals, paying bribes to police officers and ambulance drivers.
This book is a disappointment at portraying any moral compass.
Very enjoyable! Quick, funny, smart, likeable characters...
I like John Grisham books.
Generally the only time that meal isn’t good is when you decide to try something else and it’s not as good, you leave feeling unsatisfied and fulfilled.Grisham’s book, “Rooster Bar” left me unfulfilled.
I finished it and two things came to mind, glad I got it from the library (free) and with so many books to read, maybe I didn’t need to have read this after all.I did not like the characters and there was no good versus evil theme, this time everyone is bad.
I won an advanced reader's copy of this book. It is typical John Grisham and I loved it. His imagination is amazing. I finished the book after work in three afternoons. If you are a fan Grisham, you will not be disappointed!
Countless times we’ve been told about the importance of the first sentence of a book.
We are told that editors and publishers scrutinize the first sentence and if they don’t like, you lost a deal.
Many books might not get written because the budding writer cannot think of the perfect opening.Yet, for a reader, the last sentence makes or brakes the story.
It is what will sound in our ears for some time after we closed the book.While reading “The Rooster Bar” I admit thinking that it is not Grisham’s Best.
But when I came to the last sentence I knew I liked the book.
Liked it very much.
Ok at best, painful through most, still not a bad story...I generally love Grisham, especially the legal thrillers, however the best word I can use for this one is lazy, kinda like he wrote part, then changed his mind, then added that part, etc.
They're ridiculously stupid and it's painful to go from one utterly moronic decision to the next.
Usually you'd be happy for them, but because they were such idiots, you're not even sure.Before you rag on me, again, I like Grisham, but, I dunno, maybe he's just getting old and tired...
I had hopes after Camino Island that he was back but it does not appear that is the case.Mark, Todd, and Zola are in their third year of studying law at Foggy Bottom.
He also owns a bank specializing in student loans.Mark, Todd, and Zola are not alone.
Not Mark, Todd, and Zola.
And to make some money in the process.Often when I start a book I may not like the protagonist but he or she grows on me as I read.
If anything I found that I liked Mark, Todd, and Zola less.
This wasn't quite 4 stars, but I'll round up for the beginning and the ending.
I've enjoyed Grisham novels, mostly his legal thrillers.
The hook in the beginning was effective and pulled me right in.
For me, the shift was a missed opportunity but that is probably because I've read many of his books and maybe I expected the whole conspiracy theories and class action lawsuits to be more central.
This may not have been what I expected, but I still enjoyed it.
I liked the characters a lot, and I enjoyed the ending.
That is until now…Grisham’s new legal (if you can call it that) thriller, “The Rooster Bar” starts off during the Christmas holiday season, with four law school students and buddies – Gordy, Mark, Todd, and Zola – going into their last semester before graduation and the payback of their outstanding six-figure loan debt.
Eventually, as with other Grisham novels, the three eventually hatch a risky plan in hopes of getting back at the evil hedge-fund investor, the bad guy that created their unfair student loan situations.
What ended up saving the book and keeping my interest was Grisham’s strong writing.
Like almost every Grisham novel, this is a high-stakes crime thriller .
but the stakes here feel so much higher than in his other books — at least the ones I’ve read, which I admit isn’t a large number.
But this book really spoke to me: the frustration with college, the fears of the future, the desire (and, in these characters’ cases, success) to start all over and go on an adventure — an adventure with quite the cash prize, if all goes well.
Surely one of my picks for favorite new release of the year, this was a book I just could not put down.
WOW! Another great book by John Grisham but then I love most of his books. Grisham just has a way of telling a great story! Will be thinking about this one for a long time and wondering how they pulled off what they did for so long.
Entertaining for the most part. Matt wrote a good review of this title.
Just one semester away from graduation at the Foggy Bottom Law School in Washington, D.C., the friends realize their school is mostly a sham and they're hundreds of thousands of dollars in student loan debt with no hope of getting meaningful employment even if they pass the bar exam (which, not insignificantly, most graduates fail to do).On top of that, Zola's parents, who have been in the United States as productive, but illegal, residents for nearly a quarter of a century, are in danger of being summarily rounded up and kicked back to their native Senegal.
I picked up Grisham’s new novel expecting another top-tier legal thriller. Instead, I discovered an entertaining farce, centered on the law, but exploring its extreme fringes. This is a book that Elmore Leonard might have written if he had earned a Juris Doctorate. High praise, indeed.
Couldn’t put this one down!
