https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/688975.The_Concubine
This is the best book I've read about Anne Boleyn.
As someone with a passionate interest in Tudor history in general and the dramatic story of Anne Boleyn in particular, I’ve been gritting my teeth at the plot absurdities of Philippa Gregory’s inexplicably best-selling The Other Boleyn Girl.
(Basic fact: Mary Boleyn was the experienced ‘bad girl’ elder sister, NOT the innocent younger one — this has always been known !).
Lofts here does full justice to the mercurial and flamboyant personality of Anne Boleyn, as well as the complex true relationship between the sisters.
Best of all perhaps is the way the author conveys the terrible vulnerability of what it meant to be Henry VIII’s queen.
4 stars - It was great.
I loved it.
The most intriguing novel I have ever read about Anne Boleyn.
The author had a wonderful way of getting you inside the heads of multiple players/characters, presenting as thorough and accurate of a story as one could look to find in historical fiction.
Kudos to the publisher for renewing the publication, as otherwise I would have most likely never found or heard of it.-------------------------------------------Favorite Quote: He was a young man again, in love for the first time and on his way to his wedding.
However after a time and after so many books you do get the feeling of reading the same thing over and over and over again.
Being able to experience the key points of Anne's life through varying points of view provided a fresh new take on the story we've probably read dozens of times now.
There were a few plot details that I wasn't quite fond of but this also was not the first Anne Boleyn book to do those things so it didn't detract from the book for me.
All in all this is a good read for Anne Boleyn fans out there.
I thought this was an excellent alternative and realistic portrayal of Anne. I enjoyed how Lofts added some first source materials and book excerpts to the beginning of the chapters. No one really will ever know what Anne could have possibly been thinking but the ideas presented make sense and are interesting to contemplate. Could Anne really just have been a victim of circumstance and not the master manipulator?
I had forgotten how good a writer Norah lofts is. This book is an interesting take on the life of Anne Boleyn which is kinder to her than others I have read, and is very believable. It takes a different view on her celibacy before marriage. It is a very sad story of someone who waits a long time for something that ends up as sawdust in their mouth (and that could refer to Jenry as well as Anne), but Henry comes across as a selfish child.This is a book crossing book that is currently available if anyone wants it.
Update: I increased my rating by one star because after thinking about it, two stars seemed a little harsh (especially since I've given two stars to books I never finished).
I'm generally a real fan of Anne Boleyn (and this author Norah Lofts), but I just didn't feel anything towards her in this novel.
There is a twist in this novel that I've never read before which made me a lot less sympathetic for Anne (I don't want to say much more about it here, but I did elaborate more in the European Royalty group).
Overall, I was pretty disappointed with this book because I expected more from Norah Lofts.
3.5 stars This is a fictional account of Anne Boleyn from the time she came back to England from France (where she grew up) and met Henry VIII to just after she was beheaded.
It was good.
It (probably no surprise) picked up in the last 1/3 of the book once Henry turned his attention to Jane Seymour and was looking for a way to get rid of Anne.
Anne's not my favourite of Henry's wives, but I do feel badly for how it all ended for her.
Anne is probably who I've read the most about.
It was still good, overall, though.
These are in paperback?In my earlier years they were prime hard cover with 3 copies of each title. LOL!Seriously, Norah Lofts is one of my favorite all time/ all era writers for pure historical fiction and characterizations.I love her locations and home/house/mansion titled books to a 5 star but that is just because her simplicity and description have transported me to England and to other times so very well. To me her books are timeless.
I enjoyed a lot of this book; the bits I didn't care for came mostly in the second half, though the last few pages made up for it. It's not my favorite Norah Lofts so far, but I definitely preferred it over the Jean Plaidy I just read (The Lady in the Tower), and it made great warm-n-comfy autumn reading. It's also kind of funny to note that it's been ages since I read an omniscient narrator. They're not really in style these days, are they?first read: October 2010re-read: March 2015
The best historical fiction novel about Anne Boleyn that I've read. Ms. Lofts also wrote a biography, "Anne Boleyn," and she is able to weave factual information with fiction in a very readable way.
Yes, it’s good to know she followed the facts rather than just making it up and as she went along *cough*PhilippaGreggory*cough* but a lot of the facts she quotes would have been great scenes themselves – she should have developed the quoted text into scenes rather than just having the facts quoted act as scene bridges as she jumps from one year to the next.The characters were great.
However, for the past 500 years people have talked about how Anne Boleyn had something about her that was indescribable, so it’s understandable that yet another writer was unable to pin down just what is was about this woman that caused so much to happen.
Less salacious than The Other Boleyn Girl, The Concubine also presents a fictionalized account of Anne Boleyn's rise to and fall from power.
However, unlike TOBG, The Concubine focuses strictly on Anne; Mary Boleyn is a secondary (at best) character in the story.There are several other differences between the two books as well.
Having read them both, I would tend to side with The Concubine, as it, despite its title, is infinitely less trashy than The Other Boleyn Girl.
Emma Arnett, a fictional character who is an ardent reformist, is assigned to be a maid to Anne and, once her mistress has caught the fancy of the king, she is determined to see them wed in order to advance 'the cause' i.e. protestantism.
One of the aspects of the book I had forgotten was the addition of a stepmother for Anne, known only as 'Lady Bo'.
Anne in fact did not have a stepmother, her own mother Elizabeth Boleyn outlived her, but the character is engaging and down to earth and makes a nice contrast to the high and mighty dukes, countesses and archbishops that litter the pages.
Another book about Anne Boleyn...written in 1965. Very interesting to read a less than contemporary view of Henry & Anne. Henry is much more complicit in the ultimate downfall of Anne than the more modern versions. And unlike contemporary novels, Ms. Lofts gives voice to Henry and Anne. She just creates their time together and makes it a much more fun read, and of course makes it further from the truth...but Ms. Lofts has a nice writing style, easy to read, good to while away the time. I'd recommend to fellow Tudor crazies, like me.
So very good!
I loved the portrayal of Anne Boleyn and the character Emma Arnett, Anne's maidservant.
This is my first Norah Lofts book and it was a treat; all of the characters felt so real, not perfect, not 100% bad, but mixed as all of us humans are.
By the end of the book I was so disgusted at Henry and Anne's dad, Thomas Boleyn and I ended up feeling sorry for poor Wolsey.
It seemed all who loved Henry suffered.
I look forward to reading more Norah Lofts novels as she brings history to life.
I finished the Concubine last night and I have to say I was a bit disappointed, but perhaps unfairly so.
When I first bought this book, I thought it would tell Anne's story from her perspective.
The parts I truly enjoyed were when Anne made an appearance which wasn't as much as I would have liked.
I think another reason I didn't enjoy this one as much is because it's like the 5th book I've read about the Tudors since April.
I think I should start spacing these books out a bit more.
The Concubine is definitely on my top 10 Tudor fiction list. I found Lofts' way of presenting such a well known historic tale refreshing and extremely interesting. The writing style delves into the minds of several characters and all of them are done very well. I can't recommend this book enough, a definite one to add to your reading list.
Wonderful novel about Anne Boleyn and Henry VIII.
This is a brilliantly written look at the life of Anne Boleyn. Lofts is a preeminent historical novelist with beautiful description, fearless characterizations and astute psychological insights.
Very enjoyable and well researched. After all the books on Henry VIII and Anne Boleyn that I've read, this one made me think about it in a new way, with new insight. Highly recommended!!
I don’t get that feeling here; it’s almost like watching a highlights reel.
While I liked Lady Bo well enough, there just wasn’t enough of a reason to have Anne’s mother be dead and replace her with Lady Bo. If we’re going to just rewrite everything anyway, there’s no reason Lofts could not have just made Elizabeth Howard’s personality more in line with what she wanted.Why include all the stereotypical, false information about Anne?
It doesn’t even add to the story or plot whatsoever; it’s just tossed in randomly in the beginning of the book.Overall, even though it didn’t blow me away, I did like the book and would recommend it.
Her sister was referred to as "the great prostitute" after being his mistress, so it seems pretty reasonable that Anne would not want to follow in her sister's footsteps and become yet another cast off mistress of the king.
She was portrayed as someone who was pretty much screwed either way: if she became the king's mistress her life and reputation would be over, if she refused and held her ground on refusing to be a mistress, she faced angering the king and being hated by the people as a usurper of the Queen's crown.
This is probably my favorite version of Anne Boleyn's story in fiction, and you know I've read most of what's out there. The author gets the history right, except for possibly Anne having a lower class stepmother - but that's based on Agnes Strickland's research which was current at the time and now discredited. She's usually represented as either a horrible harpy or a maligned innocent, and Lofts does a great job of representing both facets of what must have been her personality. I would highly recommend this one.
I read this ages ago and thus my rating reflects my memory of how much I liked it at that time. It would likely seem dated now, mostly because of the writing style (omniscient narrators seem to give modern readers a fit now), but you have to remember that was the popular style 50+ years ago. (And, damn it, I miss it.)
Thoroughly enjoyed this novel on Anne Boleyn. The author made me sympathize with her, while making me have contempt for Henry. This is my second Norah Lofts novel. I really enjoyed it and sad to be finished with it. Hope to find some more from Lofts.
Run of the mill Anne of Boleyn book.
I didnt finished this book but I am giving it a 5 star because my reason for nor finishing is I cant take how intense it is
Like all women she possessed good and bad qualities, showed extreme kindness and loyalty and made her share of mistakes.Lofts’ novel takes the reader through Anne’s life from her first taste of love with Henry Percy through her relationship with Henry, her coronation and ultimately her execution.
Henry Percy and Anne’s relationship with him is a central theme for Loft.
This reader enjoyed the depiction of Henry Percy, not as a weak drunken man who betrayed Anne, but as a tortured soul – a more accurate representation in my mind.
It is a very nice read. It skips years rather swiftly, and I would only recommend it for someone who is already familiar with this period so you can follow what is going on.
