https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/338691.Still_Life
Middling books are the hardest to review, dontchathink?Maybe it's the recent time change (is there any point to Daylight Savings Time anymore?), maybe it's the fact that I feel like I'm swimming uphill in my nursing clinical trying to get hours in, but Still Life kept putting me to sleep.
It's not that Christie wouldn't have had weak characters, just that in her best works they would have felt a little less farcical.Overall though, it's a nice little study of the small village of Three Pines in Quebec, and of the talented Inspector and his team.
I don’t know why I waited so long to dust it off, especially since it has won multiple awards, but I can tell you it won’t take 3 years for me to read book 2 of what I believe will be a highly enjoyable series.Some readers called this a cozy.
I did have to suspend belief just a bit regarding the intricacies of the crime, but this didn’t lessen my enjoyment of the journey.I enjoyed this novel more than my usual 4-star reads, but I have a feeling Ms. Perry is going to get better and better.
It was recommended to me and it's not a pleasant task to trash someone's suggestion, but what can I do, this book was just a barely OK read for me.Still Life is a traditional ("cozy") mystery set in a Canadian village Three Pines.
At first, it appears that Jane was killed in a hunting accident, but later we find out that quite a few seemingly ordinary and upstanding villagers have some secrets to hide and maybe reasons to murder the old lady.On a positive side, I enjoyed learning a little about Quebec.
(Horrible thought: What if it's HEMINGWAY?!?)Louise Penny's Three Pines is a place I want to go and stay, eating Gabri's bounteous cooking and flirting with Olivier and lusting from afar at unattainable Peter and gossiping unkindly with Ruth...then settling in for a long, quiet snifter with Gamache and Beauvoir and Clara, to think it all through and come to a reasoned conclusion about life.
Clara would know and that knowing would eventually destroy her life anyway.If that doesn't make you sprint out to get this book, nothing else I can say will.+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++Rating: 2.5* of fiveThe Filmmaker Says: When a beloved schoolteacher is found dead, the possibility of murder leaves the quaint town of Three Pines aghast in this crime drama based on the award-winning novel by Louise Penny.
This was a pleasure to read. Imagine a detective who is happily married and is not an alcoholic! Discovering Chief Inspector Armand Gamache is a pleasure in itself!I really enjoyed the setting, a small town in Quebec, and I became quite attached to several of the characters. They were quirky and a couple verged on going over the top but overall the author held it together.An easy, comfortable read with just a bit of bite to it to keep it interesting. Consider me hooked on the series:)
Michael is that person." So you see, more than just words have gone on every page by Louise Penny.
Far, far more.Chief Inspector Armand Gamache of the Surete du Quebec is introduced to us in Still Life as well as the tiny village of Three Pines.
You will also meet the main characters who weave their way throughout the series.......the heart and the core of Louise Penny's offerings.Still Life begins the journey and is a must read to set the stage.
The Inspector Gamache Series is certainly not fluff as you will discover.
Anyone fortunate enough to find it once usually found their way back."I’ve seen this book and others in the Chief Inspector Armand Gamache series pop up so many times in my friends’ reviews and lists.
I won’t rush through them, since as I mentioned, there are so many books yet to be read – but I plan to commit fully!The village of Three Pines is so charming – as in the quote above, I believe I am one of those folks who have found it and am hoping to be fortunate enough to find my way back.
A traditional detective novel, the murder unraveled by careful observation - felt like a breath of fresh air after my normal diet of forensics mysteries.
A detective who’s respectful and loves his wife, brilliant without a drop of arrogance – appealingly flawed, if anything overly compassionate?
" Tension provided courtesy of a smug young rookie agent, Yvette Nichol.
Loved the role the painting ‘Fair Day’ plays in the mystery.
No one is as superficial as Yolande Fontaine, as smug as Agent Yvette Nichol – couldn’t take either of them seriously.“A fire had been laid and lit, outside the storm moaned and called the leaves from the trees.”

Easily a 4.5 star read!A strong recommendation from a friend helped me decide to embark on a binge of the Chief Inspector Armand Gamache series, penned by Canadian author Louise Penny.
Set in rural Quebec, the series opens with a lovely Canadian flavour, something that will enrich the reading experience and have it stand out in the genre.
With a new novel set to come out soon, I am happy to commence binge-reading to catch up in time to enjoy the latest release alongside series fans.
The most poignant were the hands of young people who would never absently brush a lock of gray hair from their own eyes.”Chief Inspector Gamache of the Sûreté du Quebec has been called to the woods near the small village of Three Pines, where the body of a popular retired schoolteacher has been found.
In this instance, she was “coming toward them, a duck barrette clinging to a few strands of hair, getting ready for the final flight.This takes place during the winter, cold, sometimes wet and miserable, but the food is wonderful in the local bistro and B&B.
Clara "laughed until she thought she would piddle," and I want to piddle on this book. No to the word "piddle"; no to twee gay couples who sing along to "It's Raining Men"; no to "violent death demanded Earl Grey"; no to murderers who are both telegraphed and chosen out of a hat; no to this smug, precious, suffocatingly cozy mystery.
The locals are positive it was an accident- everyone loved Jane, and no one in Three Pines is capable of murder...or are they?Louise Penny's debut, STILL LIFE is the first novel in the Inspector Gamache series- and what a wonderful start it is!
It was an ideal book for me to have read coming into holiday season- since it begins during the Thanksgiving weekend and the next in the series "A Fatal Grace" starts during the Christmas holidays.Not as light as a cozy...but not too dark either.
Here’s the list I came up with along with how Still Life did with respect to it.✓     Interesting characters✓     Plausible forensics✓     Sensible structure to the story✓     Skill in the uncovering of clues✓     Details of the setting for added flavorx     Success in avoiding an annoying, witless junior officer who thinks she knows way more than she really does and is terrible at reading peopleSo with the exception of the last criterion, this one does well.
This was Penny’s first book, but she seemed very polished in the way she set the stage and kept us guessing.
Excitement soon turned to disappointment, followed by a sense of disbelief that writing so bad could be so well received by the reading public.
And indeed win a prize, albeit one for novice crime writers.The setting is an idyllic village near Montreal, populated with a cast of caricatures - aging bohemian artists, a famous but misanthropic poet, a retired black psychologist, a gay couple who run, guess what, the bistro and bed and breakfast.
There is an abundance of golden leaves and drifting woodsmoke.The plot is disjointed, the pace is tediously slow, the characters are drawn with strokes so thick you can't make them out, the writing is seldom good and sometimes painfully bad.
Sign me up.....I'm in, and it looks like the ratings only get better for this popular series going forward!Jane Neal is found dead in the woods, and Chief Inspector Armand Gamache leads his troops to the picturesque village of Three Pines to uncover secrets and find a killer.
This fun to read crime-mystery has many great characters that I can't wait to get to know better.....Oliver and his partner Gabri are a hoot and newbie smart-mouth Agent Nichol, well, she is something else, and then there's Inspector Gamache's final comment (I'm not telling) that draws you to book two!One down :-) and Ten to Go :-(
Still LifeMy discovery of the charming, picturesque Canadian fictional village of Three Pines comes a few years too late, but I am glad I finally decided to pay a visit.
I would appreciate any recommendations about what book to read next.Finally I should say that it is a breath of fresh air to get to know a character of so much integrity and as straightforward as Inspector Gamache.
Overall this was a very entertaining read, I look forward to visiting him and the Three Pines village in the near future.
This mystery takes place in Quebec, Canada in a small village called Three Pines.
The author describes this place so well that I actually felt that I was there visiting with these odd characters.
Three Pines is the place to be!
The mystery starts out with Jane, who was 76 years old and was a school teacher and she was found dead in the woods of Three Pines.
Does the painting have anything to do with why Jane died.Follow Gamache and his team and get to know these odd characters to find out how Jane died.
This book is definitely a must read.
3.5The first book of 13 in the Armand Gamache series.
This book was published in 2005 and there are many things I enjoyed about this character driven novel.
There is quite a cast of characters in this one and Inspector Gamache is quite humorous, compassionate, and wise!
I look forward to getting to know him better.
I thought it was a bit too long and that it had too many side stories, but still really enjoyed it!
I have heard that each book gets better as the series progresses, so unto book two!
Quaint, picturesque, charming – that’s Louise Penny’s village of Three Pines in rural Quebec.Still Life, first Chief Inspector Armand Gamache mystery, which was published in 2005, refers not just to a painting, but to the way some people live their lives.
Rather than actively pursuing their hopes and dreams, they wait for good things to come to them.Miss Jane Neal was possibly one of those people for much of her life.
If so, who could possibly want this kindly former teacher dead, and why?Enter Chief Inspector Gamache.
I suspected it had to do with the painting that Jane called Fair Day. Was I right?
(Ok, I avoid series because then I feel obligated to read them all and especially avoid them if the author is still writing them)-- (both are true in this case!)Inspector Armand Gamache is called to quaint little Three Pines outside Montreal-- so tiny, he has a hard time finding it on the map (which made me chuckle).
Ms Penny created quite the atmosphere- I could taste the croissants, feel the warmth from the town, and was ready to stay with Gabri & Olivier.
Looking forward to the next books in the series and going back to visit Three Pines again soon.
3.75 stars - Quite a few reviewers have described this book (and other books by Louise Penny) as a "cozy" mystery. I've always tried to steer clear of any book with that description for fear it would be too "cutesy" and predictable. After this book was recommended to me by a friend I decided to try it and I have to say I was pleasantly surprised. I have 12 of her books and I plan to continue the series until it gets stale...which happens more than not :(
Inspector Armand Gamache is called to the small village of Three Pines outside Montréal to investigate the murder of an elderly woman much beloved by the community.
However, it’s still a 300 page mystery novel that has to deliver on a compelling case and keep you guessing.
And which one was Myrna again?” since there is an ensemble of at least 15-20 characters that you get introduced to right out of the gate.Nonetheless, I enjoyed myself while reading this and recognize that this is Penny’s debut novel.
Chief Inspector Armand Gamache received the call as he and his wife were to leave for a christening – he was soon on his way to Three Pines from his home in Quebec to investigate a murder.
Was it an accident; or was it murder?As Gamache and his team began their investigation, and came to know the residents of Three Pines, he knew this little village would have an impact on him.
But he sensed an evil that wouldn’t be removed until they found the killer…Still Life by Louise Penny is the 1st in the Chief Inspector Armand Gamache series, and I really enjoyed it.
The ending is SO incredible - (view spoiler)[ Snakes,hoses / rat traps / umpteen people falling down steps with broken bones galore and one strong brave woman standing there triumphant....
I tried this book in an attempt to enjoy a fun cozy mystery.
I have learned that I value credibility.Another aspect of this book that annoyed ME, was all the discussion of food.
Lots of people love books where every other paragraph reverts to what is being eaten.
A fun cozy murder mystery filled with yummy food.
Popular themes of bullying and discrimination against gay people and women and Black rights - all covered but only superficially.
3.5 stars.This is the first book in the Inspector Gamache series, and I'd heard that the books get better as they go on.That being said, I did quite enjoy this, I just found it to be a little patchy at times.
By that I mean some parts were better than others and the whole book felt a bit like a bumpy ride.Jane Neal has been killed.
So Inspector Gamache is sent from Quebec with his team to solve the murder.I really enjoyed Louise Penny's writing.
I found it so easy to imagine each scene in this book, her writing was so strong.
The locale is Three Pines, a small rural village south of Montreal and the author description makes it a come alive and a place you would like to live in or at least visit.Jane Neal, 76 years old and a retired school teacher, is found dead in the woods over the Canadian Thanksgiving weekend.
Chief Inspector Armand Gamache of the Sûreté du Québec and his team are called to investigate the death.
And of course the death of Jane Neal was not a hunting accident.
He and his team will learn who is behind the murder of Jane Neal.Definitely recommend reading this book.
I started reading A Fatal Grace and soon realised that I would be better to go back to the beginning with Louise Penny's first book set in the magical Quebecois village of Three Pines.
My 'home' (Louise Penny never describes a person's dwelling place as a 'house') is still in a mess but I'm now happily back to A Fatal Grace and meeting some new characters.
Still Life is an absolutely delightful read.
Louise Penny weaves a complex plot with sure hands, repeatedly provides an interesting sense of place, and develops her characters deftly, patiently, one ingredient at a time.
There is a very satisfying blend of action and reflection, and mostly intelligent detective work, set against a beautifully presented background of life in a small artists village in modern Quebec where everyone knows everyone else and one of them is a murderer.
One of the interesting characters is the female trainee, a total jerk.
The status quo would have lingered on forever, if it wasn't for Jane submitting, for the first time in her life, one of her paintings, ' Fair Day', to the Annual Williamsburg Arts Exhibition.
When a gay couple were harassed in the small town of Three Pines, south of Québec, Jane not only confronted the three young boys, she also recognized them.
'Even the coughing stopped, miraculously cured by curiosity.' Comments: Like a good murder mystery, the plot is everything, allowing the dedicated reader of this genre to try and solve the mystery before the detective does.
