https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1015167.Anthology_of_Japanese_Literature
Some might not agree due to its incomplete excerpts but, I think, we need to be content with such an anthology since it's impossible to read all originals in Japanese.
I think we can grasp the meaning of each topic as well as we can since we certainly appreciate more in terms of its shades of literary meaning if we studied and knew Japanese well.The following excerpts are taken from the three selections I liked most: they are from Kamakura Period, Muromachi Period and Tokugawa Period respectively.
. the supreme masterpiece of Japanese literature was "The Tale of Genji" .
can't read my note) literature is that such work as [The Tale of Genji] were written by women.
The usual explanation for this curious fact is that the men considered writing in Japanese to be beneath them and devoted themselves to the composition of poetry and prose in Chinese, leaving the women to write masterpieces in the native language.I chowed down on that affirming information for just what it is, and as it applies to my own business of blogging and making autobiographical porn.While the menfolk did a shitty job of trying to mimic someone else's fancy poetic language and wasted their time, the women used the words they (and the rest of the common people) had access to and made something beautiful.Good reminders to use the words you know and tell good yarns regardless of trends or what the supremely ignorant literati say.
Mixing linguistic nuances and historical details with numerous stories, Donald Keene provides a strong editorial background to the translations of Japanese literature.
When read carefully, the book also gives a translation of Donald Keene, highlighting his taste in poetry topics, love of Noh theater, and occasional annoyance with mono-linguistic speakers (he's got some footnotes where he simply says 'this is a pun, and its very clever on multiple levels, but would be much to tedious to explain here.
Mostly it means ___').
This is a good start to pick which early Japanese literature you might be interested in, but because much of what is in the book is only excerpts, they can never be a substitute the whole text.
I've been reading this on and off for a year or two. I really enjoy it, especially outside on sunny days.
Little Free Library find.Not everything interested me but a lot of the entries did. I think more contemporary translations might present a different interesting view.Very useful in a larger sense as reference and to have a better background understanding of references in Japanese film, anime and contemporary literate.Nothing to do with the book or my rating but prior owner underlined and notated relentlessly (in ink) which distracted me like crazy.
This was a landmark anthology when published in the 1950s and is still, I think, regarded as standard reading on many university courses in pre-modern Japanese literature.
Keene was, and still is, regarded as one of the leading Western authorities on, and translators of, Japanese literature (many of these translations are his own).
A particular pleasure of mine was being able to read the full text of a bunraku play.
Some might disagree, however, with Keene's method, elucidated in his introduction, of making the texts more readable to a modern Western audience, but just what this entails is hard to tell without being able to understand the originals.
Yes, I despise localization.
Unless it's really necessary or the equivalent could capture the nuance of the original phrase.Anyway, this book is like the guide book for those who wanted to know more about classic Japanese literature, but backed off when knowing how thick the Tale of Genji is.As the title suggests, the compilation is on chronological order.
But to me, it gave me an extra view on Japanese history.
Things that previously only known briefly, or maybe known through the heavily fabricated details in a manga.It sure is fun, to know more about a country's history through its literature.

Each literary piece reveals the nature and culture of these beautiful people.
The most surprising news of all, many of the short stories were written by women.
In fact, the more beautiful, well written plots enlightened one to the power of this peaceful aspect women are able to recreate.
Pride of the warrior has been important; so women share the depth of emotion and pleasure in nature, death, belief, and living in the world of Japan.
This anthology is now an important book in my library to settle into that Japanese world time and again!
Throughout this book, my greatest challenge was trying to be understanding of the time and place in which this book was released.
It serves its purpose as an anthology, albeit a tad light for my tastes, and as a brief introduction to Japanese literature throughout history.
But I had a hard time with the fact that there were very few Japanese translators, mostly a bunch of old white academics, whom I daresay were without the cultural context of what many of these pieces were apart.
Which leads me to my final criticism, I was disappointed with the brief introductions for the pieces, as an historical context would have provided a better reading experience.
I use this book in the classroom for two reasons - it's relatively cheap ($10 when most lit anthologies run $30-40-50) and the collection is well-selected and well-translated. The only problem - for which I docked it one star - is that there's little in the way of explanatory notes, making it less accessible to the neophyte (like my students).
This is really an amazing collection. I wouldn't necessarily have it around to reread, but it is great to read the excerpts and then chase down the source material that appeals. I've gone off and acquired several books as a result of reading the bits in here. As usual, Donald Keene does not disappoint.
This book is perfect for an introduction to Japanese literature. It contains popular excerpts from the most notable works. I highly suggest it only to be used as an introduction, because it only brushes the surface of the stories you read in this anthology.
Well selected and explained by a person you would trust to this task.He's gone for representative rather than for western-appeal and so you might find a lot of falling petals and moon gazing haikus which don't do much in English but at least you know what they were writing then. Fascinating.
Not bad at all, basically an introduction to Japanese literature. I read this for one of my Japanese lit classes.
A wonderful introduction to Japanese literature.
Very good collection and a great introduction to ancient Japanese literature. I particularly liked the inclusion of romanized Japanese in the poetry sections.
Keene's collection has some of THE most essential works of Japanese literature. A must-read to anyone introducing themselves to Japanese works.
Apakah orang Jepang menyukai Bai Juyi? Ato kebetulan yg ditranslate yg banyak Bai Juyi nya?Aaa jadi pengen baca Tale of Genji.
Kokinshu was a lot of fun, and the diary of the woman in the Heian Court absolutely broke my heart- but I feel that a lot of the work in this is restrictive w/r/t subject matter.
This is the kind of book that i will not finish cover-to-cover at one time, and actually i can start from anywhere i want, be it page 1, or 160. Maybe I'll read a bit more later. :)
I read this book for class, but I really enjoyed it an valued the work of the writer to translate all of these culturally important Japanese works.
An excellent introduction.
Excellent to re-read the variety of pieces eg Essay on Idelness
A fantastic text for a literature course. My students and I had a fabulous time with it.
Good place to start with Japanese literature; it contains curated excerpts from classics like "The Tale of Genji" so the reader won't have to commit to the whole thing. Many of the stories are heartbreaking: all the lovers seem doomed and all the warriors seem to be fleeing a disaster. The translations of the poetry here were my favorite part.
