https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/123781.The_Radiance_of_the_King
The point is quite clear, and quite terrifying for the white reader: Clarence is simply incapable of experiencing or understanding the (unnamed) West African country he finds himself in.
And yet Camara sticks to it, not because he doesn't want to set it in, e.g., Guinea, but because people like Clarence really do experience Africa as if it were one place, and so the names of nations/peoples/geographies are unimportant to them (us).
Camara allows us to experience the women in the novel as sexual objects or housemaids, not because that's what he thinks women are, but because, again, that how people like Clarence (us) experience African women.
3.5/5 You see what I mean by ‘luck,’ and what others mean when they talk of ‘merit.’ I'm giving this a mere three on the star scale as an urgent reminder to someday come back to it in a far more equipped fashion. Said equipage so far consists of the concrete form of Toni Morrison's introduction to an edition of this work other than my own, along with some vague handwavey aspirations at a far greater amount of so-generalized "African" literature under my belt. What I didn't get I lost, what I did
I came for what I had heard of as reverse Heart of Darkness and found a continuation of the literary tradition of Guinea and a whole lot of other complex things I'm not familiar with at all.
“Isn’t your father a high court judge?” he whispered in the dancer’s ear.“I should think not!” said the dancer.
Things I didn't get: forests, mazes, wings, dancing, View of the Female (that's my western feminism for you), snakes, the South, and WHAT THE FUCK WAS UP WITH THE MANATEES.
"I've still got the right," he told himself, "but I no longer have the means to put my anger into effect."...The means!
Hard not to recommend this. Part Waiting for Godot, part Candide, and part Heart of Darkness. Mix well. A very flowing book with lots to say about expectation, hope, and self.
I don't know how to rate this book yet because i'm not sure i really understood it.
but generally speaking, the language was amazing, especially the dialogue.
I especially enjoyed "the boys," Nagoa and Noaga.
At first i enjoyed Clarence, but the farther along i got, the more his arrogance began to grate--I was hoping to have a better understanding of what exactly was happening as i reached the conclusion of the book, but that didn't happen.
Clarence was stubborn and right now i'm mad at him for that.This was a group read for me so i'm hoping to eventually "get it" with the help of our discussion.
One of the most remarkable and brilliant novels from Africa that I ever read. And this one was published very early many decades ago which illustrates what a great writer Camara Laye was…and from Guinea too. This book is a must for anybody interested in African writing. This is world class writing, incorporating the best from Africa, from Europe and cascading into intellectual apogee. This wonderful story of a white man in Africa, bewildered, bemused, brought down, even exploited, until attaining illumination of sorts at the end…should elicit grand applause and “clapping” all around.
First, however, he winds up with a crafty old beggar and two African boys who talk him into traveling to the south of the country.
Eventually, he finds out he has been sold to the local ruler for this purpose by the beggar.But suddenly it appears that the king will come to the south, and Clarence prepares to meet him.The Radiance of the King is one of the best African novels I have read, with a light touch on the racial issues it raises.
I can't think of anything to say about The Radiance of the King that wasn't covered by Toni Morrison in her outstanding introduction to this edition of the book, found here: http://www.nybooks.com/shop/product-file/78/ther78/introduction.pdf.Some highlights from her intro:"Literary Africa — outside, notably, of the work of some white South African writers — was an inexhaustible playground for tourists and foreigners...
Employing the idiom of the conqueror, using exactly and precisely the terminology of the dominant discourse on Africa, this extraordinary Guinean author plucked at the Western eye to prepare it to meet the “regard,” the “look,” the “gaze” of an African king."
The main character Clarence falls asleep standing up and never seems to know what's going on.
I like the reviews that call it "Kafka-esque." (I don't get him either.) I wish I had read The Radiance of the King in a class because every line seems to mean something heavy.
Personally, I think she's on the wrong track.
I don't think this book is about Africa, colonialism or about race.
The cryptic passages slay me...Like when the king's helpers have to hold his arms up because the gold bracelets weigh too much.
The gold drags the king down.
There's a lot of praise surrounding this book, unfortunately this is the type of book that is too complex for me to understand.
However, while I was reading this book, I was often too confused about what was going on.
Even though the ending of the book was exceptional, the first two thirds of the book were difficult to go through.
The protagonist Clarence, is a white man who suddenly finds himself alone in the middle of Africa.
Unbeknownst to Clarence, he gets sold to a harem.
Clarence persistently asks for a job in order to prove his self-worth.
The Radiance of the King is a book so radiant that it will surely overwhelm all books that come after it. I've learned that one cannot possess a book any more than one can possess a moment, for the rereading would always be a different book a different experience. 6 stars.
The only thing I can truly say about this book was that it was extremely strange. I know it was supposed to have displayed aspects of postmodernism and post-colonialism, but I found it unrealistic. It wasn't moving at all, nor was it (in my opinion) eye-opening whatsoever. I completely understand what Laye was trying to accomplish, but the writing left me underwhelmed. If the plot, characters, and writing had been more developed, this could have been an outstanding novel. However, there is a reason why not many people have heard of it as it is now...
This book almost killed me...
As Clarence, the exiled white failure, ping pongs around the imaginary African country - Aziana - his awareness (and arrogance) is slowly changed.
Clarence is whisked away by a con man beggar and two children.
The beggar keeps assuring Clarence that the Beggar will speak to the King about the white man.
Samba Baloum is Clarence's handler, while Akissi serves as his "woman." It is in this last half of the novel that we encounter Aziana's political society.
Beyond his undiscerning racism, Clarence is at a complete loss when experiencing the African landscape.
This book can piss right off.
He encounters a "begger" and two weird idiotic brothers, who then embark him on a journey to the South to ask the King for the job, as apparently his missed his chance the first time around.It becomes quite a crazy ride while we follow Clarence, the white man, and his mind of not knowing where he is and who is building conspiracy theories against him.
Once he's in the South, it gets even more strange, but you can't deny that you're intrigue to know where this is all going, and does he actually get to meet the King again.
To me the dialogue and action was rather nonsensical - described as phantasmagorical by others. The main character comes across as rather obtuse and his interactions with the other characters were difficult to understand, unless perhaps you are into deconstructing the historical social interactions of white Europeans and Africans from the "dark continent". Honestly, I enjoyed the introduction by Toni Morrison better than the book.
This is an unusual book, by an author from Guinea. It intrigued me as an interesting slant on the interaction between the colonised and the coloniser. I enjoyed some aspects of it, but others seemed to not work as well.
An African classic - probably the best piece of writing to date to come out of Guinea Conakry. It's a refreshing table-turning of race relations apart from being a very original story.
The writing style of the author was another problem for me: long sentences that seemed to repeat the same idea over and over made me feel just as lost as Clarence.Spoiler alert:Also, there were a few scenes that had me laughing incredulously and thinking, "What the fuck did I just read?" Floating down a river and having cold, white fish boobs hit you in the face was bizarre and unpleasant, as was the description of the woman who lived in a cave?
Fish boobs and snake sex!
Reading her introduction and then the book made me feel like I was back in a race studies class in college, and made me miss that so much!
Especially when you think about how someone like Toni Morrison, a young black woman, must have felt upon first reading this book in the 1960s.
A book about Africa and colonialism from the perspective of the colonized, that flips all Western writing about Africa on its head and turns it inside out in the most innovative ways.
Absolutely can't recommend this book enough.
Clever, puzzling, often troubling satire of colonial literature. Most people who have read Conrad will get it; I feel really bad for the reviewers on goodreads who say that this is the first African novel they've read (try Things Fall Apart first please). This book plays rough with European stereotypes of Africa, so if before reading it you check out the assertions that it was not written by Camara, you're going to feel queasy for much of the second half especially.
Stylistically inspired by Kafka, at least in some ways, a story from the African perspective of a white man's hubris as he attempts to be hired by an African king, to do what, he doesn't know. Something, surely. He's white, after all. Slightly surreal and funny too.
Justly revered.
However, after powering through the first half of Radiance, the geographic context became totally irrelevant, and the neurotic personality of a white man trying to define his existence among the local black population took over as the center of attention.The obscurity of this book should have alerted me to the fact that it is read not just because people don't know about it.
In an eloquent introduction, renowned author Toni Morrison makes a good case for why this story should be read as an allegorical interpretation of the constant struggle of the African continent to define its identity, but unfortunately only Morrison and a few other critics seem to find anything worth praising in the actual text.
This is shelved in my "TIME Top 100" novels shelf, but it's not actually in the TIME Top 100 list.
I've edited the list to include a greater variety of writers (i.e. not all old white dudes).I started out really liking this book---I am a little bit of an H.
Is this a problem of fundamental weaknesses in American literary education, particularly as it relates to colonialism/writers of color/etc.?
I don't know.So then, the trouble of reviewing: I wanted to like it, and even now I love the idea and concept of it, but if I am honest the experience of reading was not entirely an enjoyable one.
Time passes as Clarence waits, and as this happens our young and arrogant hero becomes a more humbled through a series of events deep in the forested South.This story was intriguing to me, and it reminded me very much of Alejo Carpentier's "The Lost Steps" with the theme of a man arrogantly thinking he is capable of anything, but whose ignorance is exposed once he is taken out of the culture and environment he is accustomed to.There is a twist in the plot of the story which surprised me, but I think some readers would see it coming a lot earlier than I did.
There is a lot of symbolism that I completely missed until I read Toni Morrison's introduction after finishing the book.
This is a novel from 1954 about Clarence, a white man who, finding himself broke and stranded in Africa, decides to approach the king and ask him for some sort of job.
It echoes and subverts the tradition of white men’s adventures into darkest Africa.
Africa seen through Clarence’s eyes is a world of fetid scents, impenetrable jungle, and the buttocks and breasts of the women; but he is completely ineffectual and naive, dependent on and manipulated by those around him.My first impressions of this were really good; I enjoyed it for the characterisation and description, atmosphere, nuance.
I have to credit Toni Morrison's introduction [pdf] to really appreciate it:The cliched journey into African darkness either to bring light or to find it is reimagined here.
In fresh metaphorical and symbolic language, storybook Africa, as a site of therapeutic exploits or of sentimental initiations leading toward life's diploma, is reinvented.
Employing the idiom of the conqueror, using exactly and precisely the terminology of the dominant discourse on Africa, this extraordinary Guinean author plucked at the Western eye to prepare it to meet the "regard," the "look," the "gaze" of the African king....
the abyss looks also into you...[For the Great African Reads book group]
"The Radiance of the King" was my first African novel.
I enjoyed getting to know the main character, Clarence, who is a white man out of his element in west Africa.
Throughout the book, Clarence awaits a meeting with "the king" (king of what or where, the reader does not know) so that he can convince "the king" to let him work for him in some capacity.
It's interesting to see some west African cultural elements throughout, and Clarence's story is amusing.
I was more interested in learning Clarence's fate, and what kind of commentary that lends to narratives about race and power in post-colonial Africa.
A wonderfully strange book which was at times Kafkaesque in the truest sense--throughout the protagonist (Clarence) is overpowered by both formal and informal bureaucracies, often in a surreal, nightmarish milieu ...
In fact, my few frustrations with the book often had to do with not knowing how to feel about Clarence--whether I was supposed to feel sympathy for him or despise him, or perhaps both.
At times the story lagged, and in turns it was hard to pinpoint whether certain quirks were simply anachronistic, or intentional, or weak spots in the writing.
