https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18142589-elric-of-melnibon-and-other-stories
It doesn’t matter how much anyone tells me that x or y book doesn’t require knowing the rest of Moorcock’s canon, I’m compulsive that way and I want to know everything.
It’s a little awkward reading the comic book script, but fun, too — you get much franker comments about how Moorcock wanted Elric to look, and you can get an idea about the layout of pages, etc.
It’s like reading a hybrid form.I love the language Moorcock uses, the decadence and ruin and rot and dark beauties he lays bare.
I’m looking forward to reading more of Elric.
The previous edition's white covers feature far more successful cover art.Perhaps worst of all, this book carries on as if we already know Elric and Associates, though it is volume one of the definitive authorial edition.
Sure wish I could get this on Kindle, but no, I have to have it shipped here from the Dragon Isle via Royal Mail, which seems to take a perverse delight in trashing these and my Robin Hobb books.
No, because they all use Royal Fail Mail.
Yes. Do I want my copy rolled up like a royal burrito?
My journey through Moorcock—revisiting old favourites for the first time in many years while also discovering new material—now arrives at Elric.
Despite being the author's most acclaimed fantasy creation, Elric was never my favourite.
It's not that I don't like Elric, but I always felt that, after the early stories, which ended with Elric killed, Moorcock saw that he'd murdered a money spinner, so resurrected him in a sequence of tales that, in my view, don't possess the same degree of audacity.
However, here the saga begins, with a mixed bag of stories hung about the original debut tale.
Then there's the "Elric: Making of a Sorcerer" "graphic novel".
This works really well as an exposition device since the "Elric" novel that follows skimps on description (it wasn't apparently the first Elric book to be written), so reading "Making of a Sorcerer" first gives a really good idea of the context.
Also, the theme of "destiny" is handled a bit heavy-handedly for most of the book, only to be downplayed at the end- I found that inconsistency jarring, give earlier Elric does several rather dumb things "because he's supposed to be a tragic hero".
Book One tells of Elric and his life, in Book Two the "plot thickens" and in Book Three, we have the almost cinematic "third-act finale." This, I suppose, made ELric an easy and fun read, and if there is ever a film based on this series, at least the first chronological book is already on a silver platter.I tend to judge books, and how much I like them, by the likelihood of my re-reading them at some point in the future, and I will say that, subjectively, I loved this story.
Perhaps the other books explore this, but, speaking as someone who's only read one, I feel like it eliminated something unique about Elric.It is interesting that he's an albino, because that makes him distinctive and easy to identify.

Elric the morose albino sorcerer of Melniboné must bear his reluctant crown to protect those few things he treasures against the fading bright of his might-ridden empire, which continually pits his aspirations toward a greater moral clarity against compromises of ill circumstance. The conflicts come fast and the words faster as forces of supernatural and family alike threaten Elric’s tenuous personal health as well as his cumbersome grip on power. Meet the Eternal Champion and squeeze through the many planes of existence as he tumbles through the Multiverse.
Ho dovuto fruirlo così perché Moorcock e il suo editor hanno strutturato questo primo volume della saga di Elric in un modo francamente non ottimale: innanzitutto, il libro inizia con una serie di contributi sulla vita e l'opera di Moorcock, sul genere sword & sorcery e su Elric in particolare, e altri ancora sono un pubblicati in appendice.
Questo "effetto spiegone", in particolare, mi ha rovinato la prima lettura dell'ultimo racconto, Elric of Melniboné, il vero primo capitolo della saga di Elric: essermi letto subito prima una guida turistica a Melniboné aveva tolto ogni fascino al graduale worldbuilding compiuto nel racconto, visto che ogni elemento fantastico e sorprendente mi era già stato sbattuto in faccia nella sceneggiatura.
A warning though, a large part of this book is taken up with a script for an Elric comic that leads into the events of the novel.
As you are reading a script, it can be a little jarring as scene descriptions are intended for the artists.
There are also several preliminary articles from Moorcock and other writers, describing his career and their impressions on the legacy of Elric of Melnibone.
There are also two essays at the end of the book by Moorcock, regarding his ideas about the fantasy genre and his inspiration in creating Elric.
I started with 'The Jewel in the Skull' and went through all the Hawkmoon books.
Then read Corum's Sword Trilogy, now it's on to Elric to take me on these massive adventures.
I want to read the complete Eternal Champion series in no specific order, it's fun to see the multiverse puzzle slowly come together.
As for this first book of the Elric series, I went straight to the actual story.
This edition of the book features an introduction by Moorcock, essays and other stuff.
Skip all that stuff (read that later) and go straight to the main part.
Allegedly this is the best book to start reading the Elric saga, and this edition is also well-finished, with a pretty minimal cover which keeps it to mingle with the general, mostly unsightable, fantasy covers. Be aware it contains god knows how many pages of a graphic novel script, like a playwriting, not written by Moorcock, a part you'll end up skipping and which is there just to add volume. It actually works because the following books are more or less the same size so your collection is all nice and even.
This compilation contains two Elric stories, an Aubec piece and a collection of essays. The Elric tales make up the bulk of the book. The first one is a graphic novel (minus the graphic) consisting predominantly of dialogue with a few stage directions for the artist. The second story features Elric in pursuit of his evil cousin, Yyrkoon, in order to reclaim his throne. It is all perfectly fine, meat and potatoes, sword and sorcery fare.
One third of this book was an introduction to the author or his worksOne third was a transcript of a comic with a cursive description of the comic panelsOne third was actually an enjoyable short story about elricSorry, I wanted to give this book a better rating, but the first two thirds of this book prevent me from doing this.
Tight prose, solid pacing, strong imagery, and a non-douchy protagonist. I guess this is about everything one can wish for in fantasy? But I wouldn't really know because I haven't read much in the genre—it somehow never did much for me. But Moorcock has a ginormous reputation so I figured I should at least read one of his Elric novels. I wasn't disappointed, but alas, I still haven't been transformed into a fantasy adept.
Having read Moorcock as a young adult I was looking forward to re-reading him. This is not the novel I expected. Very disappointed. Wish I hadn't wasted money.
Pure escapist 'swords and sorcery' fun. I intend to read more of the Elric books.
I read this a long time ago and am grateful to Gollanz and Michael Moorcock for republishing the entire canon in such completeness now. A wonderful and archetypal fantasy hero and, if anything, more enjoyable than the first time round.
Great collection of fantasy shorts from one of the best in the genre.
Als seine Herrschaft in Gefahr gerät, geht Elric einen schicksalhaften Pakt ein: das magische Schwert “Sturmbringer“ verleiht ihm unvorstellbare Kräfte, doch es verbirgt auch eine dunkle Macht, die mehr und mehr von Elrics Geist in Besitz nimmt....Elric ist nach Tolkiens “ Herr der Ringe“ eines der einflussreichsten Werke der fantastischen Literatur.
Neben dem Vorwort von John Clute und einem Interview mit Michael Moorecock enthält dieser Band eine Kurzgeschichte sowie das Skript zu Graphic Nobel, u.v.m. Ein Muss für Fantasy-Fans!Meinung:Mir hat das Buch ganz gut gefallen.
The "Master of Chaos" short story also starts things off nicely.Where this collection falls down is in including "Elric: The Making of a Sorceror" in the collection.
While I can understand that this was included for completeness, taking up over half of the book with a script for a graphic novel was not welcome.
I personally have no interest in such extended commentary especially beyond one to two of them and again for me they distracted from the collection.Ultimately the central story is great but I question if this collection is the best place to access it as, for me at least, over half the book wasn't of any interest.
I wasn't sure whether I would like this one or not but I'm glad to say that I did.
There isn't a whole lot of depth to the characters, the plot or the world but that didn't necessarily make the story less enjoyable.
It was a very quick and fairly thought provoking read.It's worth mentioning that I didn't read everything in this collection.
I understand that they want to release everything chronologically but to have all of that before the title story seemed like a poor choice to me as other new readers could easily be put off.
This is a nice new first volume for Elric.
The heart is the script for The Making of a Sorcerer and the novel Elric of Melniboné.
Sorcerer is better read as the (beautiful) comic, but it's great to have this textual script available, and it's a god intro to the actual first novel, ElricFor the short pieces: Master of Chaos is a nice intro to the world of the Young Kingdoms, and the non-fiction pieces are all interesting, but not ground-breaking.Overall, a strong introductory volume for Elric, definitely better than the older Elric of Melniboné novel that it replaces.
When I was a teenager I loved Michael Moorcock's books and devoured any of his works I could find. I read this after a long long gap away from any of his books and really enjoyed it. Reading the comic book section which is the text without the comic is slightly strange but kind of worked.Moorcock is great on action, on ideas and on focusing on the characters, his worlds are fleshed out only to the extent that they push the story forward. I love the links between the stories and characters in a weird non-linear fashion.
There's something of a scrapbook feel to this book, having various stories cobbled together with essays and other introductory / background material. In parts, the stories themselves have instructions to an illustrator embedded in the text.Moorcock is a bit of a legend, and has inspired many since him. There are some flashes of creativity, and once it gets going the plot is quite absorbing. Moorcock clearly also knows his stuff. But in the end, I found it rather thin and awkward. I think the word might be sophomore. Perhaps I just need to re-read, to gain a fuller appreciation.
http://nwhyte.livejournal.com/2519712.htmlSorry to say that I was a bit disappointed by this volume, the first of a new presentation of Elric in internal chronological order. About half of the book is the script of an Elric-before-he-was-King graphic novel, which is OK but I'd have preferred to get the real thing. There are some interesting essays and short pieces front and back, but I think it's really one for the Elric or Moorcock completist, and I am not one.
The main novel serves as the starting point for the Elric series. It is a cut above the average fantasy books, and there is real character development, which is rare for works in this genre. The extra short pieces, including the script for a graphic novel, are interesting but not at the same standard as the central novel.
Stunning imagination. I'm not sure why this captured me so, when other fantasy (eg. Lord of the rings) leaves me cold, but I loved it.This review is for the main stories themselves, not for the other bumf in this slightly odd book- essays, a script for a graphic novel... It's very easy to just skip all that though!
Michael Moorcock is fast becoming my favourite fantasy writer so totally recommend this but one of the stories in it is in comic script format so be warned that can be tough going if you aren't used to it.
A classic, just not entirely sure that it needs the additions in this edition.
review soonish :)
