https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/422356.The_Nature_of_Personal_Reality
You know the old question: if you were on an island and could only have one book, which would it be? For me, THE NATURE OF PERSONAL REALITY. I've been studying all manner of faith and religion for years, and this book and the work of Jane Roberts and Seth is the cornerstone of my personal belief system.
This is (was?) the single most important book in my life because it came to me when I was a teenager and gave me the idea of the possibility of becoming alive. It is filled with odd sounding exercises that, when done, confirm the veracity of the 'far out' ideas presented by Seth. Once read, the ideas here changed forever and for the better, how I perceived, and how I was able to perceive, life.
I've burned through two copies of this book since the mid-1980's.
My second copy - beat up, dog-eared, and missing it's cover - is full of highlighted sections.
Because the information presented in this book was CHANNELED through Jane Roberts, I suppose a lot of people dismissed it as crap.
It may interest some of you to know Richard Bach sat in on some of Jane Robert's channeled sessions with "Seth", and the concepts presented by the characters in his books "Jonathan Livingston Seagull" and especially "Illusions" had their roots in the work Bach did with her.
One of the most important books of the century... or any other. Trust me.
It is the "how to" create your ideal reality guide.
One of the tips given by Seth was to built a "mental city" orbiting outside of Earth's gravitational pull, which speeds up the enhancement of the creation, by creating without having to go through matter.
I built the city above my son's bar in Chico, California with the goal of enhancing his reality.
I go there every day to meditate on an ideal reality.
This creates a WAVE in the quantum field, which creates what we call our physical reality.I named the quantum city after my son, "Michael's Quantum City." It orbits with Earth.
My book * http://www.amazon.com/From-Hollywood-...My Youtube on Raw Food Diet: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChTW...
Hard to discuss this book without being perceived as a loon. Suffice it to say that this book, along with Seth Speaks, really changed my worldview on...everything. It's a difficult read but one I highly recommend for those with an open mind and a desire to understand the true reality of physical reality. 'nuff said!
This was the book that made the world make sense for me. When I was first introduced to the spiritual journey this was the first book I was given and it changed everything.
This was fundamental in my philosophical development. Whether you believe the spiritual aspects or not, there were some good fundamental practices ensconced in it's pages.
Ok, I think I may have said this about another book, but if you were to read just one book, this is it!
lol.
I loved it.
It was so rich and enlightening with so much depth on the nature of personal reality, I wouldn't even know where to start describing it.
It is hard to believe that it was all written in its final draft.
It was really "meaty" with lots to chew on which made it hard for me to get through.
There was just so much to think about.
I highly recommend it if you can handle "chewing" your books.
This is another interesting book of the Seth series which gets quite deep in describing aspects of our consciousness. It is not a light read and is in fact a book I can only read in small doses, but it is pretty incredible nonetheless. This is the type of book that you can flip to any page and find something profound.
I read this book twenty- five years ago and I am rereading it. It was and is a marvelous piece of writing. The author seems to move aside and let the entity Seath speak through her and the voice is clear.
Reading this book sharpened my isolated view of reality to the point where I've begun to question the meaning of small objects in the periphery of daily life. Not as comprehensive as Seth Speaks, but definitely a necessary read. Buy it. Read it (pencil in hand).
One of the best books I have ever read...The exercises work!
This is one of my favorite Seth books!
Techniques to create the reality I want and desire.
This book has been a lifelong companion.
I first read this when I was in my 20s, and it blew me away. It changed the way I looked at everything.
This book made me think about life differently. I found it uplifting and inspiring. I couldn't read it quickly; I had to stop often to think about what I was reading and how I felt about it.
I've had to read this over and over again to GET it.I think it will be a book that I will have to continue to read as I mature and will get more out of it as I grow in my spirit.
Another great Seth book. Really good for information on the nature of reality.
One of the best Seth books
The wisdom imparted in this book is definitely a keeper ~ and not just in this lifetime.
You can't come up with a better description of this book than the subtitle: "Specific, practical techniques for solving everyday problems and enriching the life you know."
Used to be a favourite, now I think it's a load of purposely confusing, channeled crap. I have nothing against Jane Roberts, I think she was sincere, but Seth is another matter altogether. Before you read this try The Siren Call of Hungry Ghosts: A Riveting Investigation Into Channeling and Spirit Guides by Joe Fisher. Now that's an enlightening read.
I've been on-and-off obsessed with the Seth Books for about 15 years, but this is one I own and just can't finish. Or, at least I can't read it cover to cover. It's, like, way over my head, dude. Anyway, I'll continue to do what I've been doing since I bought it 10 years ago - pick it up and take in a few pages to ponder at a time. Totally, utterly fascinating stuff.
Remove the new-agey spiritual mumbo-jumbo ("Perfection is achieved, not when there is nothing more to add, but when there is nothing left to take away." --Antoine de Saint-Exupery) and this is an extraordinary helpful book! It deals with several themes close to NLP ideas of managing beliefs and states, and touches even on submodalities.
This has proven to be one of the most influential books in my life. Ever.
I am sorry I couldn't take this seriously, because anything that happens spiritually in a book where the author has taken drugs or have mental health problems, makes me wonder if this is all actually an illusion of a sick mind. Friends recommended this book as helping them, but since some of them have read this book, I think they have changed to become a little more extreme,,, some have even taken drugs thinking that it helps them, based on this authors experience... I do not recommend this book personally.
This is one of the best metaphysical books I've ever read. It took me over 2 months to read it because I'd go to a coffee shop to read it, but I'd almost invariably read one or two or three pages then have to stop and reflect on it, how it applied to me, how it explained my past, what new possible future avenues it opened for me. I can't recommend this book highly enough.
I started seeing things around me through the lens of Seth’s teachings, for example, how others’ beliefs in the difficulty of something in life are actually inviting and reinforcing that difficulty’s reality, and how in other cases deficient self-worth could manifest as health trouble.
Another example which a friend brought up from her own belief investigation: There’s the idea that “Good things happen to good people, and bad things happen to bad people.” Therefore, if bad things happen to me, then I must be a bad person.
