https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/605545.The_Magic_Island
The Magic Island supposedly introduced the zombie to the west, which is why I decided to read it.
The early zombie flicks definitely reflect the racial tension and American paternalism of Seabrook's travelogue.
Seabrook supports the idea of overall white superiority and condescends to black Haitians.
It's difficult for me to say whether I liked the book or not because of Seabrook's attitude toward black Haitians.
I felt uncomfortable while reading the book, but it really made me think about how racism is inherent in a lot of western art and culture.
Unlike vampire movies, which can all be said to owe their existence to the novel Dracula, there never was one major zombie novel. However, this book was very influential, and inspired many early zombie films, such as White Zombie (starring Bela Lugosi). Exactly how accurate the book is, is a separate issue.
The book covers a long trip to Haiti by Mr. Seabrook and his various adventures upon the island.
In the first part of the book you get alot of good first had account of voodoo rituals and songs.
In the second major part of the book you get the rest of his adventures throughout the island with a variety of people American and Haitian with stories which cover politics, history, and just everyday life.
Nothing in the book is boring and kept me coming back for another round of reading.
He makes a great many keen observations within the book which are worth the reading all for themselves alone.
I have read a number of editions of this book. This edition doesn’t have the photos (quite interesting) or the horrifically racist illustrations of the late 20’s and early 30’s editions. The book has also has been reprinted a number of times under several different titles (jungle magic..Etc). The major flaw with this book is the inherently racist slate and its leanings on the sensational. A great read but take the anthropology information with a grain of salt. This is not a definitive text or even a very good introduction to the various sects of Haitian voodoo.
I have read a number of editions of this book. This edition doesn’t have the photos (quite interesting) or the horrifically racist illustrations of the late 20’s and early 30’s editions. The book has also has been reprinted a number of times under several different titles (jungle magic..Etc). The major flaw with this book is the inherently racist slate and its leanings on the sensational. A great read but take the anthropology information with a grain of salt. This is not a definitive text or even a very good introduction to the various sects of Haitian voodoo.
I found this book at a library book sale and was delighted to read about the author's descriptions of a little-written-about part of the world during the 1920s. I wouldn't judge it on it's "political correctness" as the term didn't even exist in the 1920's (did it??). What's fascinating is the idea that this book introduced the concept of zombies to western culture! Think about that next time you watch Walking Dead. The author himself was a fascinatingly bizarre character who tragically ended up committing suicide.
An enjoyable and engaging read about Haiti in the 1920's. Some of the essays are more realistic, some sensationalistic, calling into question the reliability of the account, despite the author's repeated claims that they are true. Less sensationalistic than many other books on Voudou. Contains exciting travel, political and adventure writing. Seabrook veers far off the political correctness trail, but it could have been much worse for 1929. Appalling illustrations.
I have the 1929 edition of this book (recently acquired...it was my great-grandfather's) and it definitely has some very interesting illustrations.. can't wait to read it
Seabrook introduces a new word to the English language: "zombie".
I am not looking forward to reading this, but probably should as I begin the whole revision process. I'm sure there will be a review!
