https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/672431.The_Doctor_and_the_Soul
Just finished reading this for the second time in about 6 months. If this wasn't a library book, I'd have highlighted about %75 of it. I imagine that's what I'll do as soon I receive my own copy in the mail and read it a 3rd time. Not very technical, so you really do not have to be well versed in psychology, only the desire for introspection. I can only speak for myself, but it's not a desire, but a need. If you feel the same way, you need to read this book.
I've never had a keen interest in psychology... until I read Viktor Frankl. This book is a more in-depth discussion of logotherapy than the introductory one given in Man's Search for Meaning. Frankl's insights complement and correct other approaches to psychotherapy (psychoanalysis and behaviorism) that tend to objectify human beings and reduce their behavior and thinking to external "causes" or internal psychological "drives" rather than "reasons". He give the human soul it's rightfully prominent place in psychology.
Like millions of people, I loved Man's Search for Meaning so I tried some more Frankl. But this one bored me to tears. Freud was a materialist focused on urge and instinct, Jung was a borderline mystic,with a focus on life's meaning Frankl straddled the border between science and religion. This book has interesting ideas, but it didn't age as well as his best-seller.
I learned a lot from this book; it was enlightening and extremely interesting. psychology is not one of my passions, but definitely after exploring this author (who also wrote "Man's Search for Meaning"), I became more interested in the subject. I highly recommend it.
Interesting and just after freud so a bit dated. Frankel takes an interesting approach to thinking through that which surpasses the ID. We can not be all about just us. Such makes the truly amazing that we do superficial. There is so much more than a me me me society that the human mind is capable of. Frankel moves the dialogue towards this ends. The latter part of the book is not so much my deal, because I'm more interested in the philosophy and less interested in the application. But cool... probably outdated, but cool.
Frankl goes into more detail regarding logotherapy, and existential analysis he introduced in Man's Search for Meaning.
Logotherapy seeks to help people find meaning in their lives, and serves as a response to Freud's psychoanalysis and Adler's Individual psychology.
Expected of existential psychology, Frankl weaves philosophy with therapy and discusses the meaning of life, death, work, suffering and love.
Like his first book, he discusses the psychology of his fellow prisoners at the concentration camps.
He dedicates a whole section filled with case studies to the two therapeutic techniques in logotherapy: paradoxical intention and de-reflection.
Хоча науковцями доведено, що більшість хвороб беруть початок в голові.»Чомусь усі вважають коли у нас болить горло чи сердце, чи щось інше-ми швиденько біжимо до лікаря , а коли наши думки та душа прагнуть зрозуміння, нам так тяжко знайти правильний вихід і зрозуміти самих себе , ми боїмося звернутись за допомогою , тому що «люди не зрозуміють» -тікаємо від світу закриваючись від себе , від людей.
"A man has become accustomed to taking care of his / her appearance.
But from the soul we are not accustomed to consider something separate, such that needs attention and care.
In this book, you'll, among other things, learn about- What logotherapy is;- How it differs from psychotherapy;- Why its necessary as a supplement to psychotherapy (rather than a substitute);- The meaning of life;- The meaning of work;- The meaning of love (44 pages!).
Here he goes in depth about the nature and meaning of love, the difference between eroticism and sexuality, the genesis of love, psychosexual maturation, and on advice to young couples;- Creative values, experiential values, and attitudinal values;- Eternal values and situational values; - Applications of logotherapy using paradoxical intention and de-reflection; and- Medical ministry as operating on the line between religion and medicine.
A very powerful book. It got draggy towards the end as the author discussed the many case studies proving the effectiveness of logotherapy, but the first part of the book, especially its discussions on existential angst and the meaning of life, is pure gold. The concept of "filling out the circle you have, rather than boundless ambition in extending the radius of that circle" is a powerful and humbling idea that stays with you. Highly recommended.
Чудова. Читала переклад КСД. Багато опєчапок, але загальне враження від того не псується. Якщо маєш поганий настрій чи загубив сенс життя, то це те, що допоможе здійснити досить таки непоганий сеанс самопсихотерапії.
Should be required reading for all doctors. Touches upon the emotional aspects that disease and suffering inevitably touch upon for patients. How can and should doctors provide patients with hope, strength and meaning as they face their conditions. I learned a lot from reading this.
This book changed my life in college and has informed me professionally since that time.
Existe algunos fragmentos repetidos en algunos otros libros pero es muy bueno para recordar conceptos dentro de la logoterapia
Una buena síntesis de la Logoterapia! La voluntad de sentido...
Good to read something about Logotherapy. This book explains a lot about therapy etc.
An interesting and mysterious plot with some well-developed secondary characters that do not let you stop reading this book

Judging by my marginal notes, this book was probably assigned for RELST 431, the senior seminar for Religion majors at Grinnell College.The religion major was new to Grinnell when I switched over from the history department.
Indeed, the two adjunts attending the seminar were both trained psychotherapists of the "humanist" persuasion.So, anyway, we read lots of religion stuff, but also a bunch of psych theory, books about Gestalt (Perls), Phenomenological (Binswanger et al.), Behaviorist (Skinner), Client-Centered (Rogers) and other 'psychologies' such as Frankl's 'Logotherapy'.
We'd read the stuff, then playfully argue about it all during the class sessions.This Frankl book is not, however, the best to start with.
As a genuine faith springing from inner strength, such a belief adds immeasurably to human vitality.
Nothing appears ‘in vain’ ; ‘no act remains unaccounted for’ (Wildgans).
No great idea can vanish, even if it never reaches public circulation, even if it has been ‘taken to the grave.’ In the light of such a law, the drama and tragedy of a man’s inner life never have unfolded in vain, even when played out in secret, unrecorded, uncelebrated by any novelist.
And all effective action in life, may, in this view, appear as a salvaging of possibilities by actualizing them.
Gana paprastai ir glaustai aprašoma, kaip suprantama atskirų psichinių sutrikimų kilmė žvelgiant iš egzistencinės perspektyvos, bei palyginama su biologinės ir psichodinaminės krypčių teorijomis.
Toks požiūrio į negalavimus kampas vertas dėmesio, nes atskleidžia, kokia didele dalimi žmogus sąmoningai pasirenka ir kontroliuoja savo ligos eigą.Džiaugiuosi perskaičiusi šią knygą, visgi, besiruošiantiems jos imtis, verta pašonei turėti internetą, nes jeigu nesate psichoterapeutas ar medikas, tikrai susidursite su ne visai aiškiais terminais, kuriuos verta suprasti.
Taip pat žinios apie vienų ar kitų psichinių sutrikimų dinamiką, taip pat prasvers siekiant tiksliau įsivaizduoti, kaip logoterapijos metodai padeda tuos sutrikimus įveikti.
Rekomenduoju dirbantiems sveikatos sitemoje, ar tiesiog su žmonėmis, bei ieškantiems peno savo apmąstymams apie prasmę gyvenime.
Instead it makes clear a way of being and thinking personally tested in the concentration camps of Nazi Germany.
This book made me curious to know more about Frankl - and I spent some time watching old videos and reading descriptions of him by family members.
He is a man of brilliant ideas and thinking, but also a man of action.
Some of this book is heavy going because it is about practice and makes comparison with the therapies of psychoanalysts such as Freud.
But if you can wade through this (or skip those bits!) you will find the core ideas are both profound and hopeful.
Published even before the more famous Man's Search for Meaning, this is Viktor Frankl's explananation of logotherapy as the therapeutic search for meaning. A groundbreaking book, applicable especially to those who are amenable to *generating* meaning rather than simply trying to identify a pre-existing plan for them, it deserves to be read in concert with Man's Search for Meaning and Man's Search for Ultimate Meaning (qq.v.).
Frankl has 3 kinds of values:Creative values- what we make, build, do or accomplishExperiential values- what you see and do and receive, where you've been, & what you've been throughand most importantly, Attitudinal values- how you responsibly react to and internalize what happens to you. it's all about how you look at things. Nothing is meaningless if you can learn,grow, or help others because of it.
My amazing clinical supervisor Patti was listening to me talk about my exuberant quest for (and finding of) spiritual meaning in my work and personal life and recommended I read "Man's Search for Meaning" by Frankl, which I shall do. I have a history of reading vorcaciously about anything I can find that might pertain to the Holocaust. She also passed this book along to me from her library.
In this book, Frankl rallies against nihilism; he showed how meaning is central to our existence (and more specifically the health of our psyche). Though intended for the psychiatrist rather than the layman, I still managed to gain something (although a lot of it escapes me). The most impactful chapter for me is The Meaning of Love as it provides quite a different perspective than usual.
To be truly alive in this world as a human being, one must realize a meaning (i.e.reason or will ) in one's existence which dignifies others, oneself, if need be, exceeds or transcends oneself.Dr.Frankl ,by his own "humanity",has been able to elevate a mere mortal by making this human being aware of his transcendental-self,I.e. his immortal soul.
This one gets a bit technical. I suspect that it was taken from his lecture notes or something. The introduction and first chapter are very good in their discussion of the philosophy of psychotherapy approaches.
Logical and convincing, very enlightening for me.Especially of interest is his explanation of 3 ways of love. 2 being superficial - physical then psychological, the narrowest LOVE being of someones essence. Thus, when you are loved, you cannot be replaced nor compared to anyone else.
This book is excellent. Deeply insightful and it provokes great self reflection. No prior psychotherapy background is required to enjoy this book, but it does help, Wikipedia also helps too. Highly recommended.
This book contains numerous anectdotes that are of value to those interested in logotherapy. If you had time for one book, I would read Frankl's Man's Search for Meaning; however, if you had time for two, this text certainly warrants a peak.
