https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1305129.Daniel_Boone
I don't like this book because it is really boring. I would recommend this book for 6th through 8th because it is not that easy. If you liked a book about John Tyler you will like this because it is the same but there is different people. Daniel Boone heres a queer noise...................read to find out.
My husband's Grandmother is related to Daniel Boones sister, so when we found this book at Goodwill I decided to read it. It was alright, but not good. At least we'll have it around for our kids to know about their ancestors.
I read this alongside my 9yr old son for our homeschool. The Childhood of Famous Americans are usually a hit with my kids. It's fun to imagine what historical figures would have been like as children. Daniel Boone is especially fun for boys. There are a few parts where we will have to discuss attitudes towards Indians, which is to be expected in nearly every book about this time period, and something we have been discussing for a while in our history readings.
My boys loved this biography which focused mainly on Daniel Boone as a child and young adult. I did have to explain some of the prejudiced attitudes on the part of the white settlers towards the Indians.
His mom would give him spelling lessons every day, but Daniel would run and hide.
When Daniel turned eight he started training.
His brother was training him how to hide from Indians.
One day when he was killing small game with his tomahawk he met an Indian named Wolf.
After that Wolf was jealous and tried to kill him.When Daniel turned twelve he got a gun.
This is when he knew he wanted to be a hunter and tracker.
He hunted and fished with Indians and knew the woods better than anyone.
At the age of fifteen Daniel started guiding people on hunts.
Thus far the boys are really enjoying this.
The 6-yr-old asks random questions throughout the day about Daniel Boone so I know he's connecting.April 2010 - We finished this a few weeks ago.
The boys really enjoyed it.
A good introduction to Daniel Boone and the lifestyle of the time.
We will most likely read this again, but next time around I want to find a book which discusses his later life.Recommended.
A 3rd/4th grader would be able to read this on their own, if very interested or motivated.
Daniel Boone was born in Pennsylvania. When he was ten he spent all his life in the woods; his favorite thing to do was to hunt and track. At the age fourteen he became a trail guide; he knew every trail in the country. During the year 1772 he married and brought his family to Kentucky, which he called Boonesborough. In the early nineteen hundreds the Indians attacked and Daniel became colonel. He fought for five years, and finally drove them out. It took great perseverance to fight, but in the end he drove them away.
I liked it. He was the fastest in the settlement and best thrower and so he wanted to play with the Indians and the Indians got mad cause he won all the games. So he went back again and only won the foot race and he did it on purpose.
Typed by Nevada: daniel boone is a good book and it just doesn't talk about daniel it talk's about his mother and his fother and his moter want's him to be a weavero but he wants to be a hunter but it talk's about daniel age's 8- 12
When Daniel was young, he learned survival skills from his dad. When he was a little older he led men on expeditions. When he was older he went on really long hunts. When he was even older he got famous by saving Boonesborough.
We read this book as part of our homeschool curriculum. I thought that it gave a great illustration of what it was like to grow up in the wilderness. The story was engaging and my kids loved learning about Daniel Boone's childhood!
I read this book with my 8 and 11 year old sons. If we had the time, we probably could have read it in a day or two because they wanted to keep reading. They wished there were more stories about Daniel. Perhaps they'll be inspired to learn more about him.
On an old reading list...estimated to be read in 2006.Another school read...
one of my favorite series when younger...
This is a good first read for getting to know who Daniel Boone was and what he did. It was a little over-simplified for my taste. But this is a great book for the younger set ages 6-9.
Good intro into the young life of Daniel Boone. Worth reading with the young ones if you're studying Early American History.
I liked it. He could easily find his way through the woods when he was older. He once risked his life to save the lives of these other people.
My kids love it.
