https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/95602.Mark_of_the_Lion_Trilogy
This is another author I resisted reading...for y-e-a-r-s because I had preconceived opinions about what she would write because she's a Christian.I was so very, very wrong.The story begins in early Rome with a young girl character.
And the culture and practices of the period are written with such detail that you are left with a solid understanding of what life was like in Rome and how people lived.
This is a love story, a history, a story of cruelty and torture and hate and unconditional love, varying relationships and all the dynamics involved, and amazing characters and the events in their lives.
You know those good ol movies such as Ben Hur and The Robe?
In fact, how I wish they would make a movie out of the books!The only problem I have with the series (two of the books anyway) is Hadassah, the heroine of the tale.
What I'm saying is this - nobody is that perfect a Christian in real life.
Although Hadassah is a meek and fearful person, she was never angry, never hated anyone and never imperfect in her behaviour when it comes to being a Christian.
If you know any more Christian novels set during Roman Times, do tell me.
Loved, loved, loved, them!!! These are can't put down, aren't going to feed the kids or the dog, not doing laundry kind of books!
If not, all the darkness (esp Julia) in book 1 may turn you off bc it nearly did for me.
SO good.
Couldn't get enough of book 2 and I didn't want it to ever end.I have mixed feelings about Book 3.
I rated it 3.5 stars/5 but I was disappointed about the last quarter of the book, esp Atretes treatment of Rizpah.
It's still a good book but it frustrated me and made me not like the trilogy (as a whole) as much.
So, I definitely recommend the first two books with book 3 being optional.
Good stuff!
I cannot say how much I love these books! I read them every couple of years. The characters come alive and I think about them often. Sometimes I will find myself asking "what would Hadassah do in this situation?" A MUST READ!!
These three books are amazing! The first book takes a little while to get pulled into, but once you do, you won't put either of the books down! Amazing series with several stories being told within. Top 10 of my favorite books!
It's all there, raw and un-hidden, a testament to the glory of God. These books are passionate and emotional, so prepare yourself for all kinds of drama.
It's amazing how much just a book can change the way a person looks at the world and approaches the throne of God.A good read, heavy in drama and emotion, impossible to put down, and uplifting and encouraging.Unless you didn't cry at the end of Toy Story 3, in which case I don't have anything for you.
Indeed, to crack the cover of these books and begin reading is very like discovering a time-machine and traveling back in time.
As Jerusalum falls, you are there, feeling the terror of the Jewish people and early Christains as Rome persecutes and and nearly exterminates a whole group of people.
You feel the pain of the early Christains as they face the lions in the arenas of Rome.
You feel the forgiveness and mercy of one fine young Christain Jew as she loves her enemies and grows to become what Christ would have us all to be.The third book in the series was almost anti-climatic for me, and wasn't' up to the quality of the first two, but even then, the third book is an excellent read.
I was never a reader of Christian fiction, but this collection was recommended by a good friend; she was reading it aloud to her family, and said they had a hard time putting it down. They couldn't wait to return to it the next evening.I found myself in the same situation. This is so well done - every single book holds the interest and the reader is hard-pressed to take a break. I became very invested in the main characters and was dying to know what happened next.Highly recommended. I have the trilogy and will re-read.
One of my favorite series ever!
Some of the best books I've ever read!
How else would I know anything about Roman culture and come up with the name, "Hadassah" for a child! I read these as a young girl and look forward to enjoying them again with my children.
Best books I've ever read in my life. Period.
Great series! Couldn't put the books down!
Which they weren't.The first two books follow a young Jewish Christian girl named Hadassah as she is taken captive to Rome after Jerusalem and the temple are destroyed.
The third book revolved around Atretes, an ex-gladiator (and main character in book one), and Rizpah, a young Christian women with the fight of her life headed towards her.What I do want to tell you is how interesting it was to read these books and understand what it meant to be a Christian in ancient Rome.
And there are hundreds of Christians around the world right now that are.So, please read these books.
I read them as separates but am writing a review of the trilogy as a whole.v.1-2.
How a slave girl from Judea, Hadassah, changes the lives of members of a Roman family living at the time of the Flavian emperors.
The Christian message was just enough for my taste, not overwhelming the action.
The example of Hadassah's life spoke volumes to me and to the family.
The third volume carries on with the German ex-gladiator, Atretes, [a former lover of Julia--daughter of the Roman family], his search for his son, journey back to Germania and life with the villagers.
These books are a great way to learn about what it was like for early Christians.
Paul has just written letters to the churches in several major cities.Even though they're very fictional accounts, I really appreciated the insight these books gave into the beginnings of Christianity.
Back then, if people found out you were Christian, you'd likely be fuel for torches or food for lions.
Rivers gives a LOT of historical context to really help you understand what's going on and where you are.
So it's slow going at first.
Their temptations aren't that different from ours.
Hot issues aren't much different either.
Amazing and addictive!!!!Well-written, storyline that weaves the characters and places and happenings together addictively.
Great for readers who love to know, really KNOW the characters and their struggles.
If you aren't familiar with the story's timeline and culture, you definitely will be by half-way through the first book.
This is not a quick read, but definitely so addictive you can't put it down.
I am not one to re-read books in general, but this was the fourth time a read this set and I was still on the edge of my seat, even knowing what would happen.
OMGosh.
This is a must-read, must have for Christians.
Trust me, this is no boring, dull, spiceless "Christian" book.It is exciting and allows us to visualize life fifty to one hundred years after Christ's death.
How they yearned for letters from Paul.
How they gathered in secret to read a letter from a disciple.
It opens your eyes to the reality of how dangerous it was to be a Christian in that time.
Frankly, you want to grab your bible and read Ephesians with a different set of eyes.It is violent, poignant, sexy, adventurous, frightening and comforting all at once.
Are there words to express?!?!? What a marvelous work!!!!!!!! Thank you Jesus and thank you Francine Rivers for using your gifts to glorify the Lord!! I am so encouraged and inspired- my faith is greatly increased. I have only read 2/3 books thus far but I have to pause in my Mark of the Lion series marathon to stop and thank you and hope that this review will spark interest in everyone and anyone to read these books. SO powerful. I want to thank my SIL, auntie and cousins for encouraging me to pick up these books. So thankful...
By looking at the cheesy covers of these you'd never know that they are actually great historical fiction. I'm very picky with Christian fiction and Rivers is one of two writers in that genre that I enjoy. One could argue that parts are somewhat unbelievable but the early church age was full of signs and wonders. I love the mesh of Judaism and Christianity and I love learning more of the ancient cultures of Rome and Ephesus. Interesting to read this trilogy after the Hunger Games. There are great parallels.
My absolute favorite historical fiction series to date! Francine Rivers is the best Christian Fiction author out there, in my opinion. She uses great descriptions so the reader really breathes the essence of the book and puts themselves there right along side the main characters. I love her! She quotes and refers to scripture often in her writing, and it is not a watered-down Christianity. She has strong beliefs about tough topics and is not afraid to be vocal about it, even if it makes the reader squirm and become uncomfortable. Her writing lacks no good thing.
What a fantastic read, bringing to life the incredibly dangerous and dire circumstances under which early Christianity spread like wild fire. As 21st century Christians in the U.S., we know next to nothing about real faith, sacrifice and persecution. Francine Rivers brings to life a world in which professing belief in Jesus Christ often meant torture, imprisonment or even death. This trilogy is a compelling read - highly recommended.
These books were hard for me. Then I couldn't put it down. A voice I the Wind is the 1st book, then An Echo in the darkness and last As sure as the dawn. These are about the time when the disciples were being persecuted along with the Christians. It is gory but what story isn't. Just look at the wars we have going on now. I recommend this trilogy and hope you got something great out of it about what you believe and how far you would go to save your life or the lives of others.
Mark of the Lion Trilogy was literally my favourite series of all time read. The first and second installment had me up at night and completely anti-sociable. Although the story takes a while to build up, once you are hooked it is simply impossible to put down. Love love loved it!
Captivating best series I have ever read. It's been over a year since I read the trilogy and I still think of the characters often.
Amazing!!!
Then Hadassah and Marcus' stories wrap up with a nice happy ending, effectively ending the story, or as much as most readers cared about it.While I do harshly criticize them, I genuinely did enjoy reading through the first two books, those being A Voice in the Wind and An Echo in the Darkness, I did not like the third book (As Sure As The Dawn) at all, due to its boring story and overall lack of depth.
Atretes is almost assured to become a Christian by the end, as Francine Rivers seems to not be able to stand a potential unhappy ending.I give the series two stars, as it is enjoyable, but not necessarily a good example of literature.
the characters are exquisitely executed and their feelings are so real, the reader can't help but imagine himself within the pages, walking and talking with Marcus and Hadassah.
I've read the first book at least five times and it never gets old.
Very few novels are like old friends to me whom I find comfort in, so these books occupy a very special place on my bookshelf.
I too, am a writer, so Rivers' work has been an influence on me.
This series is not your old run of the mill Christian fiction.
Whether you're a Christian or not, this book is too good not to read.
Best series I have ever read.
The story of Hadassah literally changed the way I looked at life, as a Christian.
This series not only entertained me, but it had a transforming effect on my life.
I re-read the trilogy about every 2-3 years, just to be re-inspired and reminded once again of how I long to be a writer who takes my readers on a journey of transformation.
I can honestly say there are very few books (out of the hundreds and hundreds I have read over my lifetime) that have truly made an impact on my life.
