https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2256.Sacred_Journey_of_the_Peaceful_Warrior
To start with, this book is supposed to take place near the end of the Peaceful Warrior book.
Present moment awareness allows you to see your compulsive mind, your unconscious reactions, and the energy you waste worrying about past and future events.
It is about getting away from the abstract mental constructs and getting back to real life, right here, right now.
Yes, it may appear that you can know what a person is thinking or how someone feels before they tell you, but this is based mostly on awareness of the situation in this moment.
I read The Peaceful Warrior a couple of years back as I re-embarked on my own personal (somewhat spiritual) journey, and it was better than I could imagine.
I'm not typically a fan of self-help or super-inspirational books, but the philosophical and spiritual lessons that I derived from the Peaceful Warrior surprised me.
Boy was I surprised by Sacred Journey.
I got deeply connected to Mamma Chia and wound up empathizing through and through with Dan's recounting of his spiritual journey.
I highly recommend this book (whether you've read the Peaceful Warrior or not) to anyone looking for something philosophical or something that "makes your heart think."
I first read this book about 10 years ago for the first time.
I just read it again a few weeks ago.
What the book reveals to you, depends on what you need.
It depends on the place you are in your life, what quotes and lines in the book just JUMP out to you.
Dan Millman is an amazing motivational speaker, and his books are all thought provoking, and soul stirring.
The premise is simple, but the book has many layers.
Give it a read, and keep this book.
I waited awhile before reading this.
I guess I was not ready for the message at the time I bought it (September 2004).
After reading this book, it's almost like a retreat experience.
You remember how clear your head was during the retreat.
When you came back to reality, however, things weren't as peachy as you'd hope.This book is about living that experience of self-discovery every single day.
It's about having peace, without ignoring or forgetting the troubles surrounding your life.
It completes the purpose of why we need to understand ourselves, and how valuable that understanding is to your life.
The book, even though it is apparently fictionalized to a large extent, taps into some very real human emotions and connections, leaving the reader to reach their own conclusions about the message within.
Because of how it's written in narrative form, the lessons are experienced rather than memorized and in that way resonate more with how I personally operate.The subject matter is largely focused on the chakras and how they can be opened and enhanced through practice and awareness.
After reading Way of the Peaceful Warrior in college, I retained some images and phrases - Let it flow and let it go; the man whose house had burned down & he was able to pick up the pieces without looking back.
The idea of the peaceful warrior itself.
Last week, I found this book in a box someone had left by the road as they were moving.
It was a quick and compelling read, and a good time for me to read it.
This is a simple book about complex things- which turn out to be pretty simple.
I know that he is sharing his spiritual experience with a wide readership because of these specific journeys, but it just makes me sad to think that such a spiritual man could leave his wife and daughter and search for his "spiritual family" instead of trying to remain in this reality and works things out with his family.
Anyways, I believe that this is a very uplifting book in many ways and one that I know I will read again and again (especially for all of the precious quotes at the beginnings of chapters).
If you've read Dan's infamous book, Way of the Peaceful Warrior: A Book That Changes Lives, then you'll naturally progress to this book, which happens about 3/4ths of the way thru WOTPW.
That being said, it doesn't have the same vibrant PUNCH that WOTPW does.
If you don't know much about the chakras, or you're looking to understand them on a different level, he touches on some very interesting aspects that I hadn't contemplated (even after studying yoga for over a decade).I'm glad that I read this book and I really enjoyed the lessons, but I recommend reading WOTPW first.
As always Dan Millman didn't disappoint me.
these are parts from that great book:-"we have no control in this life, no ability to stop the waves that come crashing down.
we can only learn to surf those waves, embracing whatever comes and using it to grow.
Accepting our strenghts and weeknesses, our foolishness and our love.
Accepting everything.
Otherwise, a master may greet you, but you'll walk right past without hearing."..every time i read a book for Dan Millman i realise one important thing: "it's never too late to change"
I have to admit, I had a bit of bias towards this series and this author, mostly because everyone I had ever met who had read these books (and told me about it) were pretty pompous, spiritually-bypassing men who were only interested in their own brand of spirituality (and lecturing me about it incessantly).
I was pleasantly surprised when I actually dug into this and discovered a very powerful female spiritual figure, as well as authentic stories of facing fears and re-connecting with intuition and nature.
It's a really sweet, heartfelt book that does not get too preachy.


Veel mystieke blabla in een lelijke stijl, maar daar tussendoor ook wel mooie concepten.De motto’s van dit verhaal in drie delen:Deel 1: Hier gaat het om: elk moment bereid te zijn om wat we zijn op te geven voor wat we zouden kunnen zijn.
Ik zal je kunnen meenemen naar de rand en je de weg wijzen; dan hoef je alleen je ogen maar open te doen en te springen.’Laten zien is beter dan vertellen.Plannen zijn nuttig maar hecht je er niet aan; het leven zit boordevol verrassingen.
I enjoyed this follow up to the first book and I enjoyed it even more because it's set in Hawaii and his mentor in an old woman. The Whitehorse public library carries it. It's an easy read and a nice journey of inner-reflection :)
Un livre qui est tombé entre mes mains au bon moment, dans un moment de recherche, de doute, d'acceptation...Des mots des phrases des paroles .. qui ont touché le fin fond de mon espritet en fin de tous compte .........."qu'impote tous cela .. qu'importe",,,,,,,a lire et a relire .. a vivre !
Becoming the peaceful warrior equals being a more productive individual!In Book #2 of series... Overcoming all life's challenges, as a peaceful warrior just makes more sense in today's challenging and competitive world.
Incredible author with an incredible message. Though I admit fiction bores me and parts of this book though fictional, helps one understand oneself beyond the four dimensions. Definitely recommend…a must read to connect within.
This book is amazing. The message is universal and it speaks to each of us differently. Recommend it for anyone who is ready to receive its message. I've been giving it to close friends to read, who I think would get something from it.
I have read this book over and over again, and recently gave it to my 14 yr old grandson to read. It is a fun story, wrapped up in solid basic rules for navigating life. I've enjoyed most of Millman's books. They inspire me, without being preachy.
Just finished the book.It made me cry but it filled me up with joy. The type of joy that comes along with a craving feeling of wanting to become a better person and to find piece in my heart, to be able to love more and hate less, to be different than others.
#AwesomeBook Anyone whose been to HI or planning to go should read it!
One of those books that helped steer me in the right direction, at the right time.
Brilliant book - a fictional story that delves into multiple spiritual understandings and truths - a brilliant teacher!
This man got it. Loved the adventure and the insights I got from it.
I really did enjoy.After meeting his spiritual teacher and following her instructions He has spiritual visions where he progresses through goes through various levels or stages of the experience of love .
Just pure imagination of the author ....If I were to classify the teachings Id say they are more psychological than spiritual .That is there are no systematic spiritual exercises given by a mystic adept top be followed daily .
Ce que j'apprécie le plus je crois c'est que Dan Millman relate une histoire et n'essaye pas de nous convaincre que ces idées sont justes et que tout le monde devrait pensé comme lui.
Pour ceux qui n'ont pas lu "Le guerrier pacifique" je vous le conseil autant que le film, ils ont été des éléments marquants dans ma vie vers des changements subtils mais profond.
Il ne s'agit pas de croire tout ce qui est écrit au mot près de comprendre les enseignements portés par Dan Millman.Bonne lecture
This book needs to be read in the order that Dan writes “The way of the peaceful warrior series.
I have really enjoyed reading the books.
Each one was an awakening experience, oddly enough as I read past chapter one, the events that take place in the book could be applied in my own life events.
It actually tripped me out a bit.
Ones mind need to be open to truly receive this book I.
The way it’s meant to be absorbed.
It most definitely a life changer.
I suggest this book for anyone who enjoys enlightenment.
Dan continues his journey, leaving behind a disruptive marriage to seek the center of his soul. The journey takes him to Hawaii to where a kahuna waits to teach him the way of the sacred tower. Though not as good as his first book, this tale of awakening is well thought out and filled with second hand parables to demonstrate his point along with quotes and pretty allegories it falls short of the first book.
Another case of not thinking that a sequel could follow such an awesome previous title and being proven wrong. 'Sacred Journey' is laid out as a little more of a story which makes it quite an imaginative read. The story is engaging and the gems that Dan picks up on his journey are great tools that anyone can use to live a better quality life. Awesome book.
There are couple of major ideas I took away from this book. However I feel that it's not a read for everyone. You have to read between the lines and see beyond what the mind projects. If not, this book will sound crazy. This book really was a clarification of a cloudy part of the first one.
