https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311162.Envious_Casca
Having all these people under one roof proved not to be such a grand idea when Uncle Nat was murdered in his bed.This is a classic "locked door" mystery set during the holidays, making this a good mystery to pull out this time of year.
This classic mystery might have you thinking twice about congregating your family under one roof for a little holiday gathering.This book is a part of my personal book collection and one I've always wanted to read, but somehow never got around to.
I'm glad I decided to sneak it in my holiday reading list this year.
The Sinker - It’s the time of year when my heart turns to Christmas stories, generally not the murderous mystery kind and yet somehow this is the second I’ve read this season.
I’m a fan of locked room mysteries and this one fits the genre.
If you read the summary you’ll know there’s a murder but I’m still going to include the next passage in a spoiler.
(view spoiler)[Nathaniel, the curmudgeon in the quote above is found murdered in his room with all doors and windows locked.
Not a fan of romance, I thought Christmas Party the perfect opportunity to acquaint myself with her writing style.
"Damn it, he was in here with the door locked!" Stephen said. "He can't have been stabbed!" I think Heyer wrote a story about people she hated in real life, relished and had a hell of a time making them (an exaggerated version) vapid, insipid, and whiney; but oh so highly quotable. This is second in the Inspector Hemingway series and god love the man for the testimonies and evidence he has to shift through to discover the killer. As a locked door mystery, it's pretty good. The cast of character
"Damn it, he was in here with the door locked!" Stephen said.
How the murder occurs was a little goofy but I would classify this as a cozy mystery with some romance inspirations sprinkled in, so it's all in good fun.The following quote is a bit of a spoiler and my little comment after it, you'd know who ends up pairing up and probably figure out two characters who aren't the killer.
But seriously, bless her heart and all the Mathildas in the world who take these men on.Bonus: Heyer provides us with your next time you want to leave work early excuse.
Having read, and enjoyed, “No Wind of Blame,” the first Inspector Hemingway mystery, I was keen to read the second.
At Lexham Manor, Nathaniel Herriard lives with his brother, Joseph, and Joseph’s wife, Maud.
It is clear, in fact, that this party is very much the wish of Joseph alone, who seems keen to try to get the ‘young people,’ together for Christmas.
Nathanial is a difficult and argumentative man, who has rows with his business partner, objects to his nephew’s fiancé and (understandably) resents having a play he is not interested in read aloud to him over Christmas.
I read all of GH's mystery/suspense books (other than Footsteps in the Dark) many years ago.
Changed times now, where you don't see boxes of cigarettes on tables for your guests to help themselves to (that would now be a recipe for bankruptcy)& I can't remember seeing anyone use a cigarette holder since the 70s - & it looked affected even then!What I loved about the book was her character actors (or dramatis personae as Hemingway would say!) GH clearly had a lot of fun with bumbling Joseph, blank page Maude, overbearing Mummy & the glacially correct Sturry.
Heyer is usually funnier than this.The clever young man is a stock character of Heyer's -- almost every mystery of hers has one, whether clownish, sarcastic, socially-inappropriate, or merely ill-behaved.
Usually he is in love with the pleasant but not alluring young woman character who is clearly innocent of the crime.
(view spoiler)[This is no exception; the only surprise is anyone actually liking the jerk back.
(hide spoiler)] In this case, Stephen is downright rude and pretty much an asshole to everyone.
Everyone else is pretty much an asshole as well, but that didn't make me like him better.
What a delight! This country house, locked room mystery is a clever and savagely funny puzzle that is set during the Christmas season. How can you not enjoy a mystery that has a library book as one of the major clues to solving the murder? I'd definitely like to read more Inspector Hemingway stories by Georgette Heyer in the future.
This is a true "locked room" murder in every sense of the word, and while I figured out the "who" of the crime pretty early on, I never did figure out the "how" until the final reveal.As usual with Heyer's stories, her cast of characters fulfill every "ic" I can think of: eccentric, acerbic, and sarcastic, and if her characters do come across in every book as interchangable stereotypes (which they do), at least they are well done stereotypes; the kind you would enjoy spending a few hours of reading time with.All in all, I'm pleased with my Heyer whodunnit reading adventure and look forward to re-reads in the distant future - perhaps in my retirement years :D*****Two things that will alert the reader to the resolution of the murder (do not read the spoilers below unless you really want to be ahead of the game):1.
(view spoiler)[ A knowledge of the life and death of Empress Elizabeth of Austria  (hide spoiler)]
Murder at Christmas — hasn’t it crossed everyone’s mind?
There may be even more motives in this family gathering than in your own, though.
At the estate of crabby old Uncle Nathaniel, a disparate assortment of relatives and their even more bizarre significant others assemble to spend an awkward Christmas, made even more awkward by the unflagging cheerfulness of Uncle Matthew, who wants to put up tacky decorations and play parlor games.
The “how” is as interesting as the “who”, but the real charm of this book is in Heyer’s characterizations of all the loopy relatives.
The second last in my 2011 project of reading all of Georgette Heyer's mysteries, this was a fun read.
Heyer is not, in my view, the most talented of British Golden Age mystery writers.
This was a plus, because there's nothing I hate more in crime fiction than solving the mystery before the detective has come even close to working it out.
I re-read a number of Heyer's romances fairly regularly.
While I may not read the mysteries again, I've had lots of fun with them over the past few months.
Recommended for Heyer completists and fans of British Golden Age crime fiction.
Not as good as her Regency books but quite enjoyable. I found it to be a bit drawn out and it ended very abruptly. It had the most horrible set of characters I ever read in a book. Mathilda was the only one I had any liking for. I only started reading her crime novels when I joined the GH group here on GR and I'm glad I did. It's a totally different style to her romances and I will read more of them.
Nathaniel wanted neither the celebration, nor approved of Valerie or the play, and this leads to the typical Christmas scenario of flared tempers and strong words.
However, the characters seemed just a little too similar to some in the first Hemingway book, one connected with the theatre who seemed to act a part often (actually constantly); a young lady who seemed to enjoy provoking the Inspector, and such.
So while I liked the book quite a bit, I might have enjoyed it all the more had I not read the first one before this.
A Holiday Whodunnit with a behind locked door country house party setting was a delicious prospect.
It wasn't as sparkling as I expected in that it was draggy and some of the characters came across as annoying more than humorous many times, but still afforded me a good mystery.
It is ghastly from the start and then this is compounded by Nat's murder behind the locked door of his room.
It was a low-key murder and mayhem piece that I found engaging.The narrator, Ulli Birve, did a splendid job once again with the second book in the Inspector Hemingway series.
Did not finish/no review.This was the worst party ever. I left early.
Supposedly this is a Christmas book, but when all the characters except Uncle Joseph are just too, too sophisticated to do anything but sneer at the prospect of decorating a tree or putting up decorations, it loses whatever holiday atmosphere it might have had.
(It's interesting to note that Heyer doesn't offer any specifics; maybe she couldn't think of a plausible scenario either, and so left it vague.) This book is useful for rounding out one's Heyer collection, but it isn't one I'll be returning to very often, even at Christmas.
I'd say I'm of average intelligence (no comments on this please!), but I checked the percentage when I was fairly certain who the murderer was and it was only 22% (basically when the body was discovered).
I then sat (bored and a little irritated) and read the remaining 78% - 'Why?' you may well ask.
Well, firstly because it was actually Christmas time whilst I was reading it, and secondly I thought (hoped) 'perhaps there will be an ingenious twist at the end and I'll be wrong'.
But I wasn't, so the remaining 80% was quite excruciating as it seemed so obvious to me.Can't win them all, at least it was a quick read!
At the Christmas house party in his house(one he didn't want but his brother made him have)Nathaniel Herriard is found murdered stabbed in a locked room.
There is no shortage of people who could have murdered Nathaniel.I always love Heyer's characters.
With a paragraph Heyer can tell you more about a character then some authors can do in 2 or 3 books.
Mathilda was my favorite character.
I do wish Heyer had kept Hemingway the detective with his other partner.
I don't like his new partner and they don't have as great a chemistry together as him and his other partner.
12/18: bumped up to 4 stars; yes, several brittle, unpleasant characters at this Christmas house party, but wickedly funny nonetheless, in typical witty Heyer fashion - it’s like Ab Fab meets Golden Age locked door murder mystery!
Heyer manages to produce some of the most unpleasant characters for her mysteries, particularly her snarky, moody, well-bred and spoiled young people!
It's very hard to be sympathetic or find a character to root for, but I love her skewering of upper-class behavior and stereotypes typical of a Golden Age mystery; I have to admit I like her Regencies better, but I always enjoy her mysteries.
I enjoyed this book, but it was hard going the first half-once I got past the interminable family squabbling, the sardonic grinning Stephen, and the quelling looks from butler Sturry is was very good. The ending makes the book worth the read for sure!
'Interesting!' said Inspector Hemingway.
Life's like that.' 'If it's as simple as all that it's a wonder you haven't spotted it,' said the Sergeant sceptically.
'It's very likely too simple for me,' Hemingway explained.
'I was hoping you'd hit on it.'Georgette Heyer, Envious CascaIt's another country house party.
Everyone has arrived with ulterior motives and two unexpected guests.Of course, there's a murder!Heyer wonderfully captures the underlying tensions of the house party and the annoyance of everyone at having their Christmas disrupted by a murder.
Despite being fairly predictable and having unlikeable characters this is a good read.https://piningforthewest.co.uk/2017/1...
A quick and undemanding read, though not one of Heyer's better novels. I'd worked out whodunnit and the method before the first detective showed up to investigate. In the absence of mystery, the dialogue and the characters had better be top-notch, and here they simply weren't.
This is a classic locked-room murder mystery. But it's the incredibly annoying - yet very entertaining - cast/suspect list that made this a five star book for me.
Deviously deceiving characters depicted with acerbic wit.
This is the first book I've read by Heyer with a woman of character.
Heyer often projects her characters one way then fills them in so you see them and change how you see them.
This is true of Uncle Joe's wife Maud in this one and unusual for Heyer's older female characters.Uncle Joe had collected her from the chorus line at some point in his travels but now she is plump, comfortable and unwilling to bend or conform to others expectations just because she is a woman.
I wasn't anticipating from the title that this would be one of her detective novels, since I've been working my way through her historical romances and the title sounded more like one of those.
The problem with this sort of detective novel is you have to establish a fairly large cast in order to have a victim and several suspects.
And hopefully the reader won't be disappointed when they find out who the guilty party is and they're carted off to jail.Well, I honestly didn't like anyone in the book all that much, so I wasn't terribly invested in who was going to go off to jail - or even anticipating who would be killed.
Well , disappointing read.
After that, I was just reading the book to see how the Inspector goes on :( and when would he catch up.
If only JKR existed before, she would have given a tip or two about how to carefully construct plots, and throwing clues in proper places so that "mystery" SURVIVES till the end of the book.
From now on, I plan to read only Heyer's regency novels.
The character sketches were also a bit obvious.
On the whole, only Maud's character was interesting ironically.Compared to Heyer's own standards of witticisms which was aplenty and fresh in her other book "cotillion", this book is weak even in that area.
To me, at least, all Christmas crime novels have to measure up to Agatha Christie's 'Hercule Poirot's Christmas'. This novel isn't a bad attempt. It does have a superficial similarity (a rich old, cantankerous miser getting murdered being the most obvious) and is both a country house & a locked room mystery. It didn't take me that long to guess the murderer, although I couldn't figure out how it was done...(and it lacks the ingenuity of Christie's novel). If all the novels I read on December are like this then I'll be happy.
This is one of the (relatively rare) murder mysteries where I clearly remember quite early in the read who is the murderer - which makes the reading process one of watching with mild admiration how clever a murderer that person is.Character-wise, this is a remarkable collection of unlikeable people. Not a compulsively interesting story, but a readable one.
Wow! I am starting chapter 9 and I think this may be my 1st time reading a book in which I find all of the characters disagreeable. I mean, I don't like any of them. But the mystery is intriguing. I finally finished this story!! Those people got on my nerves! Like I've already mentioned, though, the mystery was definitely a facer.
An old favorite English manor house mystery, with a lovely set of red herring suspects and a delightfully satisfying solution. It was copyrighted in 1941, which makes it an authentic period piece.Read 7 times, listened 1 time
