https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18015.The_Heart_of_a_Goof
Like some capricious goddess, it bestows favors with what would appear an almost fat-headed lack of method and discrimination." These words, uttered by "The Oldest Member," set the stage for a romp around the greens only Wodehouse could have conjured up.
In nine stories Wodehouse describes not only the fates of the goofs who have allowed golf "to eat into their souls like some malignant growth" but also the impact of the so-called game on courtship, friendship, and business relationships.This volume includes "The Heart of a Goof," "High Stakes," "Keeping in with Vosper," "Chester Forgets Himself," "The Magic Plus Fours," "The Awakening of Rollo Podmarsh," "Rodney Fails to Qualify," "Jane Gets off the Fairway," and "The Purfication of Rodney Spelvin."My Review: I bow to no man in my appreciation of Wodehouse, even when the subject of his talent is the shudder-and-narcolepsy inducing topic of golf.
But let me tell you, even if you don't know the ABC of Golf, you'll still laugh your guts out while listening to the 'Oldest Member' tell you tale after tale.
My two favourite parts about the book though, had nothing to do with golf (when seen in isolation)- first was the dedication page and the second a book review/description by the Oldest Member which appears as part of a story (pics attached) ; the reason why I believe you don't really need to know what's a handicap or a birdie to enjoy yet another masterpiece by the undisputed King of Comedy.
Very funny book. Wodehouse is great with verbiage. Not sure how it would translate to someone that did not enjoy or understand golf. I think that it would be best read (or listened to) in parts. There are several stories that I think would be best enjoyed one at a time when you are in a light mode. You need to pay attention to get the most enjoyment of the Wodehouse wit.
The true testament to a writer's skill is the ability to make something inherently boring interesting to read about. Wodehouse not only makes golf interesting to read about in this volume, he also makes it hilarious! This is the book that rocketed Wodehouse to the top of my favorite writer's list. Highly recommended.
A book that purports to be about golf but instead is a collection of short, humorous tales about the odd ways in which the human species behaves. The stories are told by the golf club's Oldest Member to anyone willing, or reluctant, to listen. There's Wallace Chesney and his confidence boosting plus-fours, the high stakes rivalry between Bradbury Fisher and Gladstone Bott, and half a dozen romances gone askew. All are linked by the love of the sport of golf. Pure joy to read, even for those such as myself who can't tell a mashie from a niblick.
In an un-PC moment I mentioned that I wasn't all that sold on some of the Wodehouse rom-coms but as a lady she might appreciate it ore than I did.
She chuckled and said that at least it would be better than 'those golf stories'.It happened that Heart of a Goof, a collection of nine golf stories, was next up in my chronological reading of The Master.
Even so it is mediocre Wodehouse which still makes an enjoyable if somewhat monotonous read.
From cricket to rugby to boxing to golf to horse racing to egg and spoon racing, Wodehouse took a crack at writing about most of the grand old English sports.
Esta deliciosa colección de relatos sobre golf hace las deliciosas de cualquier aficionado al buen humor. Seguramente los buenos conocedores del noble deporte disfrutarán de estas historias en todos sus matices, sin embargo, Wodehouse también es capaz de arrancar sonrisas y carcajadas a los profanos golfísticos, puesto que los retratos psicológicos y las situaciones que crea son tan divertidos como semejantes a la vida misma.
The second in a pair of short story collections all revolving around golf in some way. This volume is a little better than the first because the stories are a little more involved than just someone learning to love golf or golf teaching them to love. The final 3 stories are all connected and are the best of the series, probably. Not quite riotous funny, but very charming and amusing.
I don't know a thing about Golf except that the person with lowest score wins. But that did not stop me from enjoying the nine golf-loving short stories. Wodehouse brings so much levity to a serious subject. I'm almost tempted to try golf myself. :)
Same as the last one, really, although the growing reluctance of people to listen to the Oldest Member's stories was very amusing.
You don’t need to know golf to enjoy this.
Hilarious, observant, intelligent, and a ton of fun.
Very funny, although I do not play the game.
A little light humorous reading. Short stories about hopeless golfers, romance, life and so many great quotes sprinkled throughout.
cute stories all revolving around golf (and a lot of rich people that seem to play golf all day long :-) ) Quite enjoyed his writing style.
So, since stories tend to be in several collections, I will include a table of contents as I go:(1) The Heart of A Goof: The title story, which deals with how a particular goof is remedied, at least long enough to propose to his girlfriend.(2) High Stakes: If you decide to cheat at golf, make sure you can trust your caddy.(3) Keeping in With Vosper: Vosper acts as a sort of deus ex machina, though he's rarely seen onstage.(4) Chester Forgets Himself: Chester tries to give up swearing in order to court a woman who would frankly rather he'd be direct.
I left her, however, before she could begin.
I am going to take him and tear him into little bits and stuff him down his throat and make him swallow himself’” (198).
‘The Heart of a Goof’ is a second volume of stories related by the Oldest Member of love and Golf, the first volume being ‘The Clicking of Cuthbert’.
The title story is that of Ferdinand Dibble who, the Oldest Member tells us, is a Goof.
As Ferdinand’s success increases so does his swagger and before Barbara can arrive to capitalise on Ferdinand’s new found confidence the locals have arranged a match between Ferdinand and George Parsloe whom famously once went round in less than ninety four.
So, when life turns dull and I start seeing a tinge of grey everywhere, I reach out for my dosage of some Wodehousian humour; the reason I borrowed 'The Heart of a Goof' from the liby.
The other book on golf stories I've read was 'The Clicking of Cuthbert'.
After about 6-7 stories, I started feeling that the setting was just too idyllic, a very 'perfect life'!
Then I reasoned that it's going to be with the liby, so I can borrow it again when I feel like it.
After many years, I come again to Wodehouse.Humour is very hard to write and to achieve.
Without success.These nine stories around golf are simply delightful, full of brilliant moments, witty comments and those special nuggets so specific from Wodehouse.
The background revolves around golf, obviously, and even if you are not a player yourself or even like it at all, you might want to jump off your seat to the nearest golf course and put your hands on a mashie.
And around golf comes a full set of typical Wodehouse characters.And there is no need to say anything else.This is Wodehouse at its best.


G. Wodehouse's delightful Golf Books.
This foray into the world of P.G. Wodehouse takes us to the local lovely golf links on Long Island, where the Oldest Member regales every passerby (whether they want to hear them or not) with a tale of how golf has saved or torn asunder young lovers, or taught valuable life lessons.Each of these tales is delivered in Wodehouse's inimitable light hearted way.
Even the villains are not really bad, they just have not experienced the wonderful game and are to be excused for their moral lapses.So take a stroll through Wodehouse's fairways and country club cottages for some light, cheerful and very humorous tales.Don't forget to wear your plus-fours, and bring a full bag of mashies, wedges and niblicks!
Being a Wodehouse fan is like being a Sinatra fan - you're never done.
You sometimes find a Sinatra recording you've never heard and with Wodehouse's 90+ books it's always easy to find a fresh one.
This one is a collection of short stories that I picked up only because I liked the title.
The stories are all golf-centered, where the characters are golfers or know golfers or love golfers or whatever.
Wodehouse was a big golfer.
I didn't get several of the golf terms (...what's a mashie?) but the stories were still fun to read.
Not the best, but fun.
All short stories involving golf. Most of the stories are not connects to each other, although there is a series of three with the same characters. The stories are typical Wodehouse romantic comedies in which golf is always a factor. After five or six in a row, they do become a bit repetitive. The mechanic of "the Oldest Member" of the golf club telling each story to some hapless victim is also a little tedious.
Wodehouse is one of my favourite authors, someone you just keeping going back to for comfort (the real equivalent of comfort food!) and a few light-hearted moments. All hos books are wonderful, some more than the others, of course, but what strikes one is his total mastery of the English language. He sort of twists and turns the phrase but always falls back on his feet, coming out with some incredible and never-thought-of constructions. What I say here is valid for almost all his books
The first handful of stories I would only give three stars. I'm certain they are captivating if one plays golf, but, unfortunately, I have yet to appreciate the game as much as my father might want me to. The last three stories I would give five stars. They're vintage Wodehouse and are amazing. Hence, the average.
Entertaining, but not Wodehouse's greatest. The nine stories featuring golfers, told by the Oldest Member, have a certain monotony about them - each OK on its own, but not really enhanced by being together.
(2 1/2) This is wonderful British humor from a master. Yes,, the short stories are all about golf, or is it all about life. Either way, it is enchanting stuff. Tongue so firmly in cheek that is almost painful at times. Take a seat next to "the oldest member' and enjoy.
Beh, leggere in spagnolo un libro inglese non è che sia stata una brillantissima idea. Ma ero in aeroporto, andavo di fretta ed ho agguantato il primo che mi è capitato sotto. Raccontini leggeri, sullo stile di Jerome K. Jerome. Neanche brutti.
