https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11886322-the-world-crisis-volume-i
For example, in regard to the early success in bombing the outer forts of the Dardanelles, Churchill quotes Walt Whitman:"Now mark me well-it is provided in the essence of things, from any fruition of success, no matter what, shall come forth something to make a greater struggle necessary."It resonates with prophetic thunder.The second point I will note also has to do with the Dardanelles.
In the most unexpected places mention of this campaign crops up, and Churchill defends himself months prematurely.
Why, he claims, should he be criticized for advocating the relatively small risk of a purely naval campaign in the Dardanelles?
Honestly, reading this book you might wonder if WWI was really a naval war given the scope and perspective of this tome.As with any war, not everything goes well or according to plan.
One could not have adjusted X or Y without everything else changing, therefore such Monday morning quarterbacking was rubbish.It was clear to Churchill in 1910 or 11 that Germany wanted war, based on separate manufactured crises with Russia and France leading up to the War. I found his explanation of these events new (to me) and enlightening.Churchill takes a lot of credit for Britain's naval modernization in the three years leading up to WWI.
From a historical perspective, Churchill's detailed description of the internal politics of the British government during the war, documented by thousands and thousands of internal letters and memos has no other precedent in world history.
The dysfunctional relationship between Churchill and Lord Kitchener which led to the disastrous Gallipoli campaign in 1915 is the highlight of the book and is documented in minute and fascinating detail.This is the most readable and compelling of Churchill's historical work in my opinion.
Churchill's refined, aristocratic language seems appropriate for the war which ended the age of kings and queens and empires.
By the time he wrote his 6 volume history of WW2 many years later, this type aristocratic language seemed almost quaint and outdated.

Although much of this book was devoted to information about the capabilities, locations, and strategies of British ships and many other naval details, which is often tedious to those of us who are not naval scholars, this is overall a compelling rendering of how the world slid into war from 1911-1914.
How can descriptions of events about which we already now, and the outcomes of which we already know, be compelling?
I recommend this volume to any reader interested in world history.
I fully intend to read the remaining four volumes of this Churchill masterpiece.
More a memoir than a history, Churchill details his involvement at the highest levels of government while giving an overarching history of the was at large. His style is engaging, and throughly detailed.Unfortunately, this two volume set ommits volumes IV and V of the first editions, and so we gain no idea of The Aftermath, or the Eastern Front.
It is more like autobiography...... Doesn't recommend for Great War....
I like reading Winston Churchill and even in a book this dense with history his voice comes through. Interesting take on preparing for and waging war when it comes.
Churchill was the great man of the twentieth century.Reading his letters and correspondent from before the war and seeing his great vision validates the fact he had supreme vision
loc2012-14: From the beginning there appeared a ship carrying ten 15-inch guns, and therefore at least 600 feet long with room inside her for engines which would drive her 21 knots and capacity to carry armour which on the armoured belt, the turrets and the conning tower would reach the thickness unprecedented in the British Service of 13 inches.loc2080-83: For instance, nearly a hundred men were continually occupied in the Lion shovelling coal from one steel chamber to another without ever seeing the light either of day or of the furnace fires.
****.This is the first volume in a five-volume set of Churchill’s history of World War I.
Although he began this history after the war was over, he was still in a position to retrieve all of the relevant documents that he felt he needed to tell the “true” story.
During the time period covered in this volume, he occupied several key positions in the British government, including, at the end, Chairman of the Admiralty.
Britain was unquestioningly the world power at sea.
Churchill and his Admiralty also had control of Britain’s air power, but he did not move in that direction because Germany did not move in that direction.
A couple years ago I read "Guns of August," an engaging retelling of the crucial lead-up to and first moments of the war.
A week ago I was perusing my public library in the section of WWI for a good book on the topic when, to my utter surprise, I found that an old friend had already written on this topic.
The old friend was not a personal acquaintance but nevertheless one with whom I felt a bond after reading his masterful and voluminous work on WWII over the course of a year.
It was totally written to the military aspects and from England's (Churchill's)view of the war (and events leading up to the war) and I am more interested in the political/diplomatic aspects of the world crisis from different angles.
Ouvrage d'une gigantesque richesse. Longtemps repoussée, sa lecture n'en fut que plus savoureuse. Une plume vivace pour un récit historique argumenté et précis. On passe au tome 2?
A surprisingly readable account of the lead in and first 6 months of the War.While rather focussed towards the naval war (as Churchill himself was First Lord of the Admiralty at this stage), it does do a reasonable job of covering the percent events in other theatres.
