https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/420496.A_Knight_of_the_Word
Brooks' uninspired and often tedious novel Running With The Demon gets a follow-up novel that continues to try readers' patience without actually being bad enough to make them give up on it entirely.
In Knight of the Word, the novel's main character must undergo the kind of crisis of faith that we've seen before in countless books and films of every genre.
Unfortunately, Brooks makes his hero so wrought with indisiciveness that he loses his "cool" cred and ultimately becomes rather annoying and unlikable.
One of Brook's weakest novels.
This has more "urban" as it goes from small town Illinois in the fist book to Seattle in this one.
And once there, one must wonder just how many times the characters will stop for Starbucks.
Nobody listened to Nirvana in this though (that happened in the first book), so it wasn't too bad for Seattle stereotypes.
It did mention the Kingdome a couple of times.
This happens 5 years after the first book, and we have an all grown up Nest Freemark going to Seattle to knock some sense into John Ross, the Knight of the Word who has lost his way.
#2/29 in my Epic Shannara Quest.This sequel to Running with the Demon doesn't disappoint.
If it seems uninspired compared to it's predecessor, A Knight of the Word, this book makes up for it by moving the setting from small-town Illinois to urban Seattle (which Brooks paints in vivid and loving detail) and giving this series social conscience.The mythos behind the world that ultimately becomes Shannara is becoming fascinatingly complex as Brooks moves his saga briskly along.
I'm looking forward to the final book of The Word and the Void trilogy as well as the next chapter in the Shannara epic.

4.5 Stars
We still have Nest, John Ross and O'olish Amaneh, but in this situation John Ross is the one in danger of falling to the Void, Nest must convince him to turn back to the Word and Two Bears (Amaneh) is ready to kill him if he might fall.The action begins five years after the first book, Running with the Demon, with Nest mourning the death of her grandfather, Bob Freemark.
She has choices to make about whether to sell her house, and is struggling with balancing her dreams and her duties to serve the Word, when she recieves news about Ross.You see, after a horrific failure for which Ross blames himself, he has decided to stop being a Knight of the Word, and is trying to ignore that previous life.
In way I like this better then the first book in the series because now I was more familiar with the authors world and Nest is more grown, however, at time this was little predicable.
My main issue and I could be wrong here is that Nest figures out who the daemon is by how the daemon acted around Ross and that it was similar to how the other daemon acted around Gran.
Ok as the reader, the Daemon's ID is little predicable and you don't need Nest's thinking about Gran to figure it out.
I avoided the Shannarra series for years in deference to Tolkien, but finally picked up Running with the Demon since Terry Brooks is from my home town and based the story there.
That book was a bit of a slog but showed enough that i decided to continue the series.
A Knight of the Word is a writing of the highest level.
I am now a Terry Brooks convert.
If you ever read anything of his, read chapter 13 of this book.
He wrote it in 1998; I thought he was writing about current world situations as I read it.
This book had promise, and I did finish it, but was frustrated that he had to include abuse of a child in the book.
I realize that this is fantasy but I do not much care for parts about abusing kids.
Unlike his Shennara books which are pure fantasy this book was written with humans in our world, and although it included demons, I just felt that the story was based a bit more in our real which made the child abuse part a bit harder to stomach.
Obviously many loved this book but it is my opinion and I accept that.
Ahh. This was also excellent. It didn't knock my socks off quite as much as Running with the Demon - mostly because it just didn't have quite the level of mystery about who the players were and what might be happening. But, it transported me back to some of my favorite spots in Seattle, and for that alone I loved it. Also, fantasy worlds aside, it had some pretty compelling things to say about how we treat each other here on planet earth. Onward to Shannara!
Brooks advances some really profound ideas and in some ways it is better than his Shannara works. I sort of saw who the "bad guy" would be, so to speak, but even then he offered enough of a twist to make it interesting.
Very slow to get through in the beginning, but about a 1/3 of the way in it gets really good.
The book was like a remake of first book, but with less new universe building and also less action. It tried to be psychological thriller with some action, but for me it just did not work.
In the first sequel to Running with the Demon and second installment of author Terry Brooks’ Word and Void trilogy, distant prequels to his main Shannara pantheon, the titular Knight of the Word, John Ross, has a post-doomsday vision of the future in Seattle, with an accusatory old man, Ross now leaving behind his duty to the Word to work in the Washington city for a homeless shelter known as Fresh Start, being speechwriter to Simon Lawrence, who bears the nickname The Wizard of Oz for his help of the community’s disadvantaged.In Hopewell, Illinois, hometown of protagonist Nest Freemark, both her grandparents are now deceased, Gran for five years and Old Bob a few months before.
Part of me says that it is over-dramatic and unrealistic for the character that we are introduced to in Running with the Demon to become so self-deceived and self-indulgent and just so plain stupid and pig-headed as John is in this novel.
I am not saying that I like the characters per se, or that I find in them what I expect from a fantasy novel, but that isn't necessarily a bad thing.
The universe is good and this idea of a looming post-apocalyptic world is an intriguing one, and though it may not seem like it from this review, I did enjoy the book.
He is now considering leaving the order, but has been told that it is not his to give up.Nest Freemark, a college student who has extraordinary magic of her own, has been tapped by The Lady to convince John that he has an obligation to the Word; to save the world from the demons of the Void; she must restore John’s faith, or her and John’s life will be forfeited.Though the vast majority of the book takes place in Seattle, Washington, there are a few scenes that are scripted with Chicago, Illinois (my home town).
Most of the writing is pretty good and he does a decent job of creating a magical world overlay of our own world.
Unfortunately there is very little I like worse than an author who feels compelled to jitterbug around in time, mostly in this case to create backstory.
Backstory, the outcome to which we as readers we already know - so why bother?
What a waste of my time.
Also unfortunately the bad guy, so to speak, is all too easy to identify early on, so any suspense beyond the chase in the park is blunted.
It was better when I began just skipping the backstory chapters entirely.
The second book in the Word/Void Trilogy.
John Ross has declared that he is no longer a Knight of Word, but the mantle of magic is not one that can be cast off by him, alone.
He must be released from his service, and the Word still has great need of him, however, the Void has gained part of his trust and is working to turn John Ross to darkness and evil.
Her race to save John's soul is going to cost her dearly, but it is a price that she is willing to pay to save the Knight of the Word.
A great follow up to Running, thankfully not as slow to get going.
When I hit about 40% through I couldn't put the book down.
As always Terry Brooks characters are always battling themselves mentally.
What I like about these books is that you can see parallels in the world around us in the battle between good and evil...the events on the news that make you think how can people be so evil...Are there demons out there?
A walk through the park will never be the same, as you look for the feeders...or will you sense the demon stink.
A great book, onto the next.
3.5 stars. Some repetitiveness, but perhaps hard to avoid given the fantasy is a series. Probable relationship with faith of any denomination or lack thereof. Doubts, running away, finally faced with reality and understanding one has to face one's own destiny, whatever that may be.Excellent use of vocabulary and Mr. Brooks weaves in the little "sprites" wonderfully.Onto book three:   Angel Fire East.
The only good thing about this book is that it is short! I tried to get through it without skipping or skimming through the pages/chapters, I failed. I just could not get into this book or the one before it. I felt the plot was very predictable, and the story was slow and boring. I still wasn't attached to any of the characters. I like the Shannara series/universe, but I just don't think the Word & Void trilogy is for me.
I loved the previous book, so I had high expectations for this one.
Luckily, it did not disappoint.I don't really have much to say, as I think I summed up what I liked when I reviewed the last book.
I want to say that I liked how the plot of this book wasn't a recycled version of the last one, but rather had its own twists.
There was also a fast-paced scene that was so well written that I felt like I was part of the action myself.The only thing on my mind now is that I need to read the next one.
It took me a many years to return to this urban fantasy trilogy by Brooks after reading the first book. Enjoyed the story much more than the first one. A fast,fun and actionfilled read with the characters from the first one returning 5 years later when John Ross has lost faith in his calling as a knight of the word. A demon in human form is trying to turn him into one of them.
I didn't like this one as well as the first one, but I felt like the story moved a little faster. I will say that I had the reveal figured out pretty early on, and I liked hearing what had happened in the intervening five years between the first and second book. I am interested to see where the third book goes.
IMHO Terry Brooks can do no wrong with his Shannara prequels and sequels. Brooks' books build a dynamic tension that increases from book to book even as each individual book holds its own as episodes in a greater epic. Good vs. evil, ethics, magic, elves, trolls...everything that makes for a great fantasy can be found in his books.
Felt like a monster of the week experience. It's pretty much the same beats of the first book, except the protagonists roles are reversed. For all the urgency of one character trying to get rid of his magic, it didn't take much to change his mind. Definitely not as fun as the first book. I learned nothing new about the protagonists and didn't really care about them. A shallow book indeed.
Fun readAnother quality read. A perfect continuation from book 1. Went through this one fast. My only complaint about this series is all the owl murdering. Why do the owls have to die :-(
wow, OK. I enjoyed this book more than I expected, it did start off slow. the author did a good with character development and story. when you think know villain, the author has a way of misdirecting you
A Little on the NoseThe writing is mostly good, but I do enjoy a good surprise. While the transformation of Nest is satisfying, the experiences John goes through are a bit old news.
The second book in the Word and Void Trilogy finds that John Ross has lost his way and is in danger of turning to the Void. His friend Nest Freemark travels to Seattle to try and save him. As I stated in my review of Running with the Demon, definitely way down on my list of Shannara books.
