https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5015.Saturday
Hello everybody,I'm Henry Perowne and welcome to a day in my life...
This time however the ebb and flow of violent modern day life breached the walls of this englishman's pricey Georgian Castle and things took a turn for the worse.
Needless to say, my calculating surgeons mind and spirited, courageous family pulled together to best the simian-like thugs.
I wrapped up the whole day the way it began; by making love to my improbably talented and successful wife and then having a little bit of a wistful ponder about my own mortality while considering it in perspective against a backdrop of modern foreign policy.
Godawful."Saturday" was ponderous, labored, rhetorically thick and therefore perhaps to my mind pretentious, or do I mean pompous?
It was like a big bloated beer gut, but a beer gut bloated - indeed, rendered distended, turgid, and tumescent - by the finest chardonnays, Gewurztraminers, and Sauvignon Blancs, sipped (quaffed?) while listening to Bach Partitas.
It was bereft of conciseness, brevity, midgetude, terseness, laconism, abbreviation, and pith, its rather meaningless, hollow sentences curled around each other like vines choking a tree trunk, maybe a turkey oak.
Jonathan sits before his reliable laptop, gathering his thoughts on how to begin a review of Ian McEwan's Saturday.
His fingers hover over the keyboard, waiting for inspiration in order to begin a review different from others previously attempted.It comes to him now, he will open with a tale of how he came to be reading Saturday.
And would they see the idea of how a single day may be both everything and nothing in an individual's lifetime?Jonathan stares at his laptop and then begins to write.
He has written a decent review he considers, let potential readers make the decision as to whether they will read this literary text.
2. Saturday, Ian McEwanThe book, published in February 2005 by Jonathan Cape in the United Kingdom and in April in the United States, was critically and commercially successful. Critics noted McEwan's elegant prose, careful dissection of daily life, and interwoven themes. It won the 2005 James Tait Black Memorial Prize for fiction. It has been translated into eight languages.Saturday (2005) is a novel by Ian McEwan set in Fitzrovia, London, on Saturday, 15 February 2003, as a large demonstration
To understand his character's world-view, McEwan spent time with a neurosurgeon.
The novel explores one's engagement with the modern world and the meaning of existence in it.
The main character, though outwardly successful, still struggles to understand meaning in his life, exploring personal satisfaction in the post-modern, developed world.
تشخیص پزشکی «پرون»، اینست که: خلافکار از مشکلاتی ژرف، و پیچیده رنج میبرد، اما خلافکار باور دارد، که: «پرون» او را کوچک شمرده، و همین، باعث به وجود آمدن پیامدهای باورنکردنی و خشونت آمیز میشود.
I thought it couldn’t have tried more to do something which is worth doing, which is, to pick up the chaotic bundles of stuff left around by the journalists* and try to connect them together, and in the middle of the madness of the early 21st century, our madness, to make some kind of sense of some of the lives that can be lived in its midst.THE TWO RIDICULOUS PLOT DEVICES1)	Okay, there’s a home invasion, like in Clockwork Orange or Death Wish or Funny Games.
This wasn’t my favorite Ian McEwan. Admittedly there were very valid points in some of the negative reviews. But I’m partial regarding to McEwan--his mesmerizing prose, particularly his superb interpretation of music (e.g. jazz/blues in this book and modern classical in Amsterdam) woke up all my senses.
The titular day is a bland array of stupid events that fill up a stupid life.
I detested this neo-bourgeoisie panorama too too much to continue about what a drag it was for a midlife twit to tell me how fabulous his house and wife are, how complete and neat and great he has it, how his over-pampered kids are both prodigies, how there's a fear super far away from this narrative in the form of a potential post-911 mass annihilation.
(It is also very clear that this is a Mrs. Dalloway prototype, but unlike Woolf's single day in the life of...
If you liked Remembrance of Things Past this book might appeal to you; Henry takes 60 pages to get out of the sheets.The characters are all disgustingly one-dimensional; starting with Henry Perowne, the most gifted brain surgeon of his generation who plays squash and owns an awesome ride, mercedes of course; his wife, Rosalynd, the beautiful lawyer who seems to posess no negative attributes whatsoever; the hipster son, a handsome, talented blues musician; beautiful daughter who's a published poet; Henry's father who bears the incredibly pretentious surname of "Grammaticus" (he's a poet too, of course) and Henry's mom, an acclaimed swimmer (she's the most likable character in the book - maybe because she's suffering from dementia).McEwan is not in any way gentle or subtle in presenting his own beliefs, and as he is an atheist then so is his hero.
You get to learn about the game of squash, literature, poetry, genetic diseases, the aging process, music, & cooking – all parts of Henry’s day or his thinking about his day.
You get to think about war & peace & terrorism & fear & politics - & how these huge issues affect all of us even as we cope with the details of our lives.
(Maybe you don’t want to think about these things – in which case, don’t read this book!) Themes to find: The need for control in our lives, what things we have control over, what we don’t, & what happens when unexpected events make us doubt our control.
Warning: also contains major spoilers for Night TrainMany of the other reviewers say they're annoyed with Saturday on the grounds that the main character's life is too implausibly perfect - a successful neurosurgeon with a beautiful wife, two talented children, a lovely home, etc etc.
So, the natural question that arises is: how are we making use of our incredible good fortune?It occurred to me that Saturday is in some ways a mirror-image of Martin Amis's Night Train, another novel that people often slam.
I found this book: Saturday by Ian McEwan.Then I read it.Things happened, some exciting and some less so, nothing of super consequence.
I put it away and forgot about it.I then went on to another book.That's my reading experience and that's the arc of Saturday.
It's a "day in the life of" short story dragged out into novel length.
So you had a rough day and things are weighing on your mind.
Meh. I suppose it would make a good party story, but reading a full-length novel's worth of this anecdote dragged me down.
It was an impossible bore throughout most of the novel, with one interesting fight in an alley due to a fender bender....
For me, hitting those last chapters was like breaking the surface of the water after holding your breath for an uncomfortably long time, and getting that first great gasp of cool, refreshing, life-continuing air!!!!
I would really not recommend this book to anyone who isnt willing to be bored to sleep whilst reading.
I can read a book in a matter of days, this one was dragged out for almost 2 weeks.
I just couldnt stay awake long enough to complete it....
There’s some kind of stylistic vortex that just sucks me in.As in many of his novels, the plot hinges on one event, though in this novel it might be two: first, the protagonist, Henry Perowne, sees a burning airplane in the middle of the night – a symbol, apparently, of the post 9/11 world that we live in.
Mrs. D, too, stays within a few blocks of her own home as she meanders through the streets of London and records every little thing that she gazes at – all in just one day.
She, too, is an upper-middle class Londoner, though Henry Perowne seems more satisfied with his lot in life than she does.
We peek in at every thought that crosses this fellow’s mind over the course and react with him to the events that occur, such as seeing a flaming plane cross the London sky, getting mugged by a trio of toughs, losing a squash match to his buddy.
Ian McEwan - from his site - Photo Credit: Annalena McAfee Saturday is no one’s notion of an action yarn, and I found myself pining for something more to occur, something to take us out of this guy’s skull.
I put a lot of effort to like this book and understand it, to read between the lines, find a hidden meaning.
I can't believe I stumbled upon a McEwan book that I genuinely don't like.
The writing is compelling, like always, but the plot is messy.
I guess that with McEwan it’s either hit or a miss.
I guess this is one of the reasons I’m not fond of the novel.
For 50 pages, the protagonist talks about how much he adores his wife, it was unbearable.
His life is too perfect.
Taking on issues of terrorism, war, and duty, "Saturday" is a touching story of the ordinary man trying to do the right thing when "the right thing" isn't clear.
I think that some of the other readers may have had issues with the disparate themes -- brain surgery, al Qaida, war, terrorism, family -- because they are not easily tied together, other than to say that those of us who look like terrorists (i.e., Baxter) may have other, non-apparent reasons for our actions.
Saturday, a day in the life of a neurosurgeon, is my first experience with Ian McEwan, and I'm afraid it didn't go well for me. The tedious writing style with umpteen unnecessary subject matters thrown in pretty much put me off. There are a couple of OH NO! moments though, and I did want to find out how the good doctor handled his (view spoiler)[revengeful (hide spoiler)] last surgery of the day, so 3 Stars it is and a hopeful move forward to Atonement bc I happen to own that novel too.
Anche in questo caso, il modo in cui l'autore dipana questi aspetti è magistrale, sia dal punto di vista stilistico, con pochissime sbavature e uno stile generalmente ricco e scorrevole al tempo stesso, che narrativo, grazie a dei ritmi azzeccatissimi ed una trama che riesce a unire bene il tutto.Qualche difettuccio c'è, come i già citati flashback talvolta un po' superflui o qualche piccolo espediente narrativo non così convincente, ma nel complesso mi sono trovata di fronte un grande libro, che analizza in maniera interessantissima temi come la violenza, l'insicurezza sempre più percepita nella società moderna (in particolare quella post-11 settembre rappresentata nel volume), la medicina e la professione medica, l'etica, la morale, giusto per citare alcuni esempi.
I hated this book.
He's a great writer but this was pure bullshit.
The best doctor in London married to the best lawyer in London, their kids a world class guitarist and a world class poet, the grandfather a world class poet too and even the goddamn grandmother was a channel swimmer.
Isn't there one damn slacker in the whole group?
Just one fat daughter who dated a criminal amputee and worked at the 7-11?
I believed this book for a fast 2.5 seconds.
I wanted the crap beaten out of that doctor, not fast talking his say out of it.
Also, another reviewer of this book made a point that the character of Henry Perowne had a little too much going for him.
(page 168) There was also an amusing observation by the main character that the mundane happenings of his day would be considered extremely exciting to his nursing home-bound mother.Okay, that's enough for now, but it's a beautiful and quick read, and I can see how this could spark a lot of discussion, so I'd recommend it.
Saturday made me realize what privileged lives we lead in the developed world.
What passes for a bad day for Henry (minor car accident, bad squash game, visit to his mother with dementia, disagreement with his daughter, etc.) is really a pretty excellent day compared to most people in the world.
If I have come away with anything from Saturday, it is the determination to be less focused on things and more focused on the people in my life.
I’ve been down-sizing my life & my needs for years and this book just encourages me to keep pursuing that path.I guess I had more to say about this book that I thought I did.
As the title suggests, the book is contained within one eventful day in the busy life of a middle-aged neurosurgeon living in Central London.
This book captures the mood of those times very well, and the protagonists ambivalence about the war on terror, as well as his vague feeling of discontent with the world mirrors the anxiety of the first world who live in fear of a terrorist attack.
It builds and builds to what is looking like a spectacular fall for our character, but we are left with, at the end of the day (Saturday), what feels like an incomplete storyStill, an engrossing and well crafted book.
Saturday is a compelling and gripping novel, sometimes quite dark but certainly worth it for its historical references and emotional family stories.
I took this book out of desperation.
I think McEwan gets by on his literary accolades alone.
I would dare another publisher to take him on under a pseudonym – and to succeed.McEwan, as always, dwells on the damage and darkness of life.
With 9/11 in the ether, McEwan couldn’t resist, could he?
I felt no empathy whatsoever with Perowne or his wife, Rosalind and their poetry writing daughter, Daisy.
I think that McEwan is laughing at the rest of the world when he writes.
I have to confess I did not finish the book.
Atonement was a great novel, a pretty good movie as well.
I suppose I think it's impossible to get outside one's own thoughts, I think that might be part of what Kant is trying to say in terms of ontology.
But yeah, the way we follow his thoughts is amazing, illustrative of the way an English neurosurgeon's mind works.
I read this novel in just over a day and will seek out more by McEwan, who reminds me most of a British T.C. Boyle, or maybe it's the other way around.
A phenomenal novel, one of the best I've read all year.
I'm not sure if it's McEwan (I must reread Atonement and read some of his other books; Enduring Love is on the pile) or just the persona he took on for this novel, but the protagonist Henry Perowne hyperanalyses every single instant in his life.
In fact, I found myself sympathising with the greasy sleazy criminal guy with the brain disorder.I can't help wondering, though, if McEwan does this deliberately (though all his books seem flawed to some degree; maybe he just doesn't see what he's doing wrong).
(Quasi) sempre alti e bassi con McEwan.C’è poco da fare: il suo stile elegante è uno dei punti di forza.
Solo che ci mette davvero poco a diventare lezioso e indolente.
L’architettura non è male con tutte le singole parti che confluiscono in quella finale.
Amsterdam’da Düello’dan sonra oldukça zayıf geldi bu romanı. Basit bir konuya neden iliştirildiği anlaşılmayan Irak’a müdahale konusu sırıtıyor. Sanki Irak işgalini destekler bir tutum var. İlk on sayfası çok gereksiz nöroşirurji bilgileri ile dolu üstelik yoğun tıbbi terimlerle süslenmiş. Bir on sayfası squash maçını anlatıyor yine gereksiz ayrıntılarla. Sona doğru bir beyin ameliyatına da on sayfa ayrılmış. Hakkını yemeyelim tüm tıbbi deyim ve anlatımlar doğru, yazar bu konuda emek vermiş. Sonuçta akıcılığı olmayan basit bir hikayeyi sarıp sarmalayan ilgisiz yavan anlatımlarla kitap sonlanıyor.
(All the others have been library copies.) The reason being that not only is this story of one day in the life of a neurosurgeon so brilliant and moving that it reduced me to a sweaty puddle, but reading a single line of McEwan's narrative lights a fire in my writer brain.
Also, in my ongoing study of his narrative—and I’m definitely reading as a student—with this book I began to see the minute parts: how he uses literal movement (journeys, panoramic views, even travel from room to room of a house) to convey what would otherwise be stagnant inner thoughts and dialogue.
He did drop out of school, which caused his parents some distress, and provides a hopeful moment for this reader that the Perowne family was going to descend into the plausible, but his success (remember, he is 18!) as a musician – a blues musician – is such that his parents are now really really darned proud of him… His strong guitarist’s forearms are employed heroically at the end of the book.
