https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33363.Mama_Day
The setting of the novel is split between New York City, where George was born and raised and Ophelia has recently moved, and Willow Springs, a fictional community situated on a coastal island on the border of Georgia and South Carolina where Ophelia's family has lived for several generations.I was lured into Mama Day by the curiosity of seeing Prospero, Ariel and Caliban written anew; what I got was much better.
This switch in perspective heightened the humour of the story in tremendous ways, e.g. at first Gloria Naylor presents us a passage in which Mama Day and Abigail overhear a fight between George and Ophelia.
For me, Naylor does the type of magical realism that I can understand. She brings in elements of country lore and mysticalism mixes it with real world stoytelling. When people believe in magic strong and hard through generations, then there is something very real that develops at out it. Also, of course, I like the love story.People sleep on Glora Naylor.Naylor keeps the story in contemporary time and doen't go through dozens of generations to tell the story or delves into so much symbolism that you can't tell the sky from a bathtub.
When someone asks me what my favorite book is, or wants to know what to read next - I always talk about this book first.
Not science fiction or fantasy - so more accessible to my more mainstream reading friends, and yet...Can I tell you that I cried and cried and cried at the end of this book.
Maybe because I want to believe in true love between two very different people.
Unlike most of my other favorite books, I have not re-read it yet.
Maybe in 5 more years, I will be ready again.
Every August I read this book from cover to cover. Island magic, the bonds of family, and the power of the past haunt this book.This is the first year that I truly understood why George needed to bring back his hands to Mama Day in the end. It's that refusal to let go, to fight for what you love, and to overcome your fears and disbelief.
Wow. I could not put this book down -- started out a bit piecy and confusing, but as the plot progressed I found myself reading with one eye open as I fell asleep at night just to soak in more of the story. It's told in the first-person point of view of three different characters and I found it especially interesting to read two points of view to the same situation. Reading this book was like finding myself at home, listening to people I have known all my life but only just met. I cannot recommend this book enough.
A work of genius. Naylor's tremendous intellect and ability to create art are on full display here. These characters are so diligently and delicately rendered that you love them, fear them, miss them, and mourn for them. I almost didn't want the book to end. I was both heartbroken by the tragedies and by the fact that I finished the book. Excellent, excellent, excellent.
I loved Mama Day, Abigail and the island in general. But, I didn't like George and found Cocoa absolutely loathsome. I already hated her and then she did the thing with the vase. Not acceptable. At all. If I were George, I would have been on the phone with the nearest divorce lawyer.I don't necessarily need to like the main character to like a book, but when I find them utterly appalling and I'm supposed to like them, that's a big, big problem for me.I know my antipathy was bad when I started cheering on Ruby.
Re-read for book club 7/4- /16Read 7/23-27/14: I'm sitting here, at a loss for what to say about this book. Because anything I can express in words would just not be enough to convey what this book means and how it has affected me. Wow.
For instance, Mama Day might go from calling Cocoa "Cocoa" to calling her "you." The threads of the family's history that are woven into the story seemed important, but they are so vague that I feel like I missed the point of having them there, which is frustrating.
And as I mentioned before, I feel very frustrated as a reader because I seem to have missed the point of this story, that thing that makes all these other reviewers call this one of the best novels they've ever read.
This was a really mixed read for me.
Cocoa and George live in New York City, and could not be more stereotyped and boring.
I hated reading their chapters, and wish I could just stay with Mama Day, who had a much more interesting personality, and much more interesting things going on with her.Overall, I'm glad I read it for the Mama Day sections, and I enjoyed the small town island life, and the unique characters that lived there.
But I was truly bored and fed up with the Cocoa/George sections.
I almost quit reading because of them.2.5/5
Simply incredible.There are so many sides to a story, it’s not about right or wrong.
It’s about love and what we’d do for it.
And the love of family is paramount.
The magical realism in this book is de”light”ful, the connections between ancestors and the living is fully realized, and the relationship between Cocoa and George will change the rhythm of your heart.And the titular character Mama Day has all the wisdom and steel that makes for a timeless character.
I love her relationship to her self, her family, her work, and her sister Abigail.
She’s a gem.Love, love, love this story.
It begins slowly enough - we follow the daily life of elderly Mama Day and her sister, Abigail; we meet Abigail's granddaughter, Cocoa, a New Yorker in her 20s who returns to the island of Willow Springs every August; we hear murmurings about the slave woman from whom the Days descended; we learn about the sister of Mama Day and Abigail, who died in her youth and left their mother mentally unwell.
The narrative alternates between an omniscient voice which follows Mama Day and other residents of Willow Springs, and a second-person narration between Cocoa and George.
Also, this is the first book of magical realism that I've read and it has sucked me in, so I'm looking forward to trying out more.
The way the story traced the history, pain, angst, sacrifices and just every other human emotion of a family, it's descendants, and the whole island, was so beautiful to me, I cannot put it in words.
Some things like the way their magic worked was obviously hard to understand for me, but it is all about belief.
And I believed from the start that this book will work it's magic on me, and it has.
The real meat is the concept of home, and relationships & how they work or don't, and the power of faith and credulity: clap your hands if you believe in fairies; don't look back lest you turn into a pillar of salt; and here, follow Mama Day's instructions.Favourite quotes below the cut:(view spoiler)[And this show gave the audience a chance to speak, and what they had to say was always of more interest to her than the people on the stage who were running off at the mouth about being male strippers, lesbian nuns, or talking about some new book they just wrote, showing folks who lived in apartments how to turn their bathrooms into fallout shelters.
This is vivid and deep, a lot going on. The language is denser than it appears at first glance, and so is the action. There's just a lot here, a lot that's good. I enjoyed it quite a bit.
I think it's one of those stories that will continue to haunt me for years to come, thoughts of a slow fall or lavender water popping into my mind when I'm doing the laundry, or protecting Ophelia from the rain.
I feel sentimental and heartbroken over things I shouldn't even think about.
I don't want to start a new book because I don't want this one to leave my heart yet.
And my dreams dictate how I feel for the day, so I've been a little off lately.
I suppose I'll save the rest of my thoughts for our book club.
I really liked how the story was told in first person by a couple of different characters, so you'd see the same situation from different points of view.On a more personal note, the book left me asking, "Are women really as irrational and cryptic in romantic relationship as Cocoa (a main character) was?" If so, then every guy I've ever dated is extremely fortunate to have stumbled upon me, and my husband is the luckiest man in the world.
I hope that the author used the rationality of her husband George to her crazy antics as some literary device, and it's not how women really are in romantic relationships.
third time reading this Novel and i think ive finally discovered what draws me back to it every year , The way it speaks to my belief system! Excellent story , unforgettable characters & Great Magic
Call me selfish, but I wish the story had more to do with the elder Day women than with Cocoa's self-discovery and awareness of her history and what fate has in store for her.I'm glad I put in the work because that final page, where Mama Day walks out to meet Ophelia by the circle of oaks, is beautiful and caused my eyes to leak a little.3 stars(Pitched as a modern retelling of The Tempest; and, I guess if you look closely, the allusions are there, but I think Mama Day works best on its own without the comparison to Shakespeare.)---------------------------------(view spoiler)["She stops and puts a bit of moss in her open-toe sandals, then goes on past those graves to a spot just down the rise toward The Sound, a little bit south of that circle of oaks.
I've read this book at least three times, and I never get tired of thinking back on George and Coco's intense relationship and all the wonderful, terrible, and enchanting things that happen on the island of Willow Springs.
This story is fundementally about good vs evil/love vs hate, but it's told in a unique and haunting way.
The quirky, likable, yet deeply flawed characters and their ghostly history continue to haunt me every time they cross my mind, and George and Coco's love story remains the greatest and most moving of all that I have encountered.
This is a quietly magical and devastating novel about family, magic, and failed relationships. Cocoa and her husband George; the ethereal Mama Day, the tragic Miranda; and the evil Ruby who casts her wicked spell on Cocoa all invigorate and speak in gorgeous cadences that serve the reader through interior and dramatic monologues. A beautiful tribute to Shakespeare's The Tempest, and other Biblical allusion; it's a magical and ultimately bittersweet novel that is bitter, and satisfying at the last page.
I struggled though this book, not really liking the first half of it.
My main complaint was the very short, choppy sections narrated by different characters who were difficult to identify.
At times I read though a section, not realizing until the end who the character was, then having to go back and read it again.
About halfway through the book, I got very interested in the story, even if it was hard for me to appreciate the Gullah way of life.
I did not like the voodoo aspects of the book, which play a main underlying part of the story.
A journey not a book............filled with so many layers you have to savor it in bits.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book as I always do with Ms. Naylor's work.
Ophelia leaves Willow Springs to go off to New York.
There she finds George....a man unlike any others she has ever met.....who shows her the real New York.....and reveals her to herself in the process.
But when she has to bring him to Willow Springs...a mythical town with even more mythical people in it......to meet Mama Day and the rest of the Days, she will find out if he can truly love her after what is revealed there.
This is a beautifully written book that I finally was able to read after several people recommended it to me.
I really enjoyed it - the descriptions of Willow Springs, the food they cooked, the houses they lived in, the sights and sounds of the island...it all came to life vividly.
I'm a Georgia girl who loves the coast, so it made sense that I'd love this book.
I loved the matriarchal threads that ran throughout.
My only tiny gripe was that the ending just seemed so horribly unfair.
It made me a little mad.
Great book.
"Talk is cheap, Miranda." /"I know, that's why I listened real careful to the way he talked.
Remember what he said when you told him to take good care of her?
He said, 'she has all I have.' " -- I think this quote from early on in the book foreshadows the coming commitment that George has for Cocoa and sheds a light on how Mama Day knew his death would be connected with her life in some way.
The many unanswered questions after my first read are compelling me to read it again, but I think it's the ingenuity of the unknown that will leave those questions as such, even after repeated readings.
4.5 stars. I wanted to give this five stars, but it just wasn't at that level. Don't get me wrong, I absolutely loved it. An amazing piece of work. A slow burn; beautifully written and wonderfully realized. This is how I like my magical realism: light and subtle. Loved it! Will definitely re-read in the future!
Reminiscent of Thier eyes were watching god, as the love story goes, but set in New Yory city and south carolina. if youve ever spent some time off the coast of s. carolina or havent, you will appreciate the wild ass voodoo sad and heartening story of three women's friendship along with death and time and learning to get on.
I loved this book and saved it for my own bookshelf. I found the relationship in the beginning of the book tedious, but I do not like relationship stories, so I searched the book and found the part that begins with their experience on the island, and that is why I thoroughly enjoyed the book and consider it one of my favorites.
This book has the power to break your heart at the same time as it heals it, again and again and again and again. Knotty whorls of genius strewn through beauty and frustration and wonderment and wow.
All I'm prepared to say about the book Mama Day at this point, right after finishing it, is that it's a beautiful story chock full of gems, from the main characters to what they do and say and see and feel. I reached the end and had to go right back to the beginning. And then back to the end. This is a keeper.
