https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/73189.Christ_and_Culture
Some people speak of three categories of Christian engagement of culture: receive, reject, redeem.
This category corresponds to the "reject" category, especially regarding the withdrawal of Christians from society and the emphasis on 2 Cor. 6:17 and 1 John 2:15.
Representatives could include Walter Rauschenbusch and others who were part of the social gospel, emphasizing the fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man in an attempt to accommodate Christ and culture (cf.
Although Augustine did speak about the City of Man and the City of God, Niebuhr thinks Augustine emphasized the transformative potential of the gospel enough for him not to be put in the dualist category.
Thus, "Christianity so interpreted became a religious and philosophic system, regarded doubtless as the best and only true one, yet one among many." The third is Christ Above Culture.
This view takes a synthesist approach, there is a Christ, and there is a Culture.
This view takes the opposite approach of Christ Above Culture.
Thus, every creature hears the gospel as the Church does her work.He concludes the book with an argument that will surely find him labelled a liberal (even though he rejects--or at least finds fault in--the arguments of liberal protestantism in the Christ of Culture view).
I would recommend this book to any Christian who has not read it, as it is invaluable in getting a basic overview of the different approaches, the theological traditions to which they are often connected, and the way they have played out in actual practice.
(Niebuhr does admit this problem, however.) Further, although Niebuhr tries to frame the initial question fairly, it's obvious by the end of the book that the terms are set up to favor the fifth approach (Christ the transformer of culture), which is also the approach Niebuhr neither criticizes nor clarifies what its end objectives are.
Very smart, although also a good reminder that mid-century American prose could be astonishingly abstract and slippery.
The hand on the cover represents the five views of Christ and Culture: Christ against culture, Christ of culture, and Christ over culture. The last has three are related sub-types: syncretism, dualism, and conversionism. Conversionism says that, as Christians in culture, we recognize that Christ is Lord of culture and through history is transforming culture through the application of gospel living to all aspects of life. The kingdoms of the world have become the kingdom of our Lord, and of His Christ, and he shall reign forever and ever.
Niebuhr attempts to understand and evaluate the various ways in which Christians throughout history and today have understood the relationship between Christ and culture.
"Christ Against Culture" -- Those who posit that Christ and culture are diametrically opposed and cannot be reconciled.2.
"Christ the Transformer of Culture" -- The conversionist model, as he calls it, posits that culture can be transformed through Christ.Niebuhr does an excellent job a number of fronts.
When he does criticize, his criticisms are consistently fair and incisive.Niebuhr's approach allows him to admit each of these positions into the mainstream of the heritage of Christianity and so into the collective Christian consciousness.
Really enjoyed this. Want to review it with a phrase I don't think has been used concerning it before, which is "rollicking good time." Conversionism, baby!
How should Christians interact with the world? That's the question that Richard Niebuhr tries to answer in this book, exhaustively explaining 5 common viewpoints on the issue. This book is very, very challenging, and not at all for the faint of heart, but the topic is one that all Christians should consider. In the end, Niebuhr never reveals what he believes in this regard, and does a great job of showing no bias in his analysis. Fantastic read, and I would absolutely recommend this book to all who are troubled by seeing Christians interacting poorly with those who are unchurched.
In this way, Christ & Culture is a work that seeks to understand the disparate currents of Christian moral reasoning while placing them all on equal epistemological footing.
love your neighbor as yourself.” As Niebuhr suggests, this dual responsibility to both God and to the world both is the one single belief that unites Christians.
It is the ways Christians have responded to this bifold command that have generated the divisive tension that separates them into the Niebuhr’s five moral types.
Niebuhr suggests that the Christian moral responses to the world fall along a spectrum characterized by increasing familiarity with the culture in which they are a part.
A broad but incisive analysis of the historical trends in Christian thought regarding cultural engagement. Niebuhr is as skilled a guide as one could ask for.
Many things impressed me positively about this book, but the one thing that stands out among the rest is the way in which Niebuhr reveals the viability of each typology while attempting to fairly critique each one.
He takes into account the complexities of the Christian ethos with respects to culture and context and does not ascribe “true” Christianity to one specific typology.
This a great book to have a revisit once in a while and I recommend it to anyone serious about the complex relationship of Christ and Culture.
Niebuhr was so remarkably prescient in plotting the trajectory of culture and thought, it's difficult to imagine that he wrote this text more than 60 years ago.
The five main categories, which he lists and then explores in detail, are "Christ against culture," "Christ above culture," Christ and culture in paradox," "Christ transforming culture," and "Christ of culture." Very interesting book, particularly as it enables the reader to identify a personal stance or a faith tradition stance, and then evaluate how that stance impacts the attitude toward mission.
A helpful read.
A historically important book receives a few new features with this 50th anniversary binding.
Martin Marty (Fundamentalism Project) contributes an article as does ethicist James Gustafson.
Gustafson's article is a helpful read in that he defends Niebuhr and his work from contemporary critics.
As far as Niebuhr's work itself goes, it really needs no introduction.
It has been so influential that most will be familiar with its categories ("typologies"), even if they have never cracked open this book.
The bottom line: this book remains an important work in discussions pertaining to Christianity and culture and all thinking Christians would do well to read it (if they haven't already done so lol!).
An interesting analysis and approach, but you realize pretty quick Niebuhr's Christ and Culture are fairly abstract concepts that hinder his interpretation. The content of the Christian faith does not play a major part into his argumentation and culture is always defined in abstract terms. He never answers the questions "Which Christ?" "Which Culture?" Moreover, where is the church as a culture? Niebuhr seems to assume the church is always created by culture but can never itself be a culture. This seems problematic to me.
“The interpretation of Augustine as the theologian of cultural transformation by Christ,” Niebuhr claims, “is in accord with his fundamental theory of creation, fall, and regeneration, with his own career as pagan and Christian, and with the kind of influence he has exercised on Christianity” (208).Like other conversionists, such as the author of the Gospel of John, Augustine affirms God’s role in the creation of the world and asserted that creation was good, “first as good for God, the source and center of all being and value, and secondly as good in its order” (210).
By compartmentalizing the sacred as separate from the profane, this approach de-vitalizes the profane and disempowers the sacred.The "Christ in Paradox with Culture" approach sees man as sinful and grounded in culture.
This lays a geis upon the believer to manifest the Divine within culture, leading to both spiritual and practical, political and social action.He concludes by stating that we must make our decisions in faith, that not one of these five approaches can lay claim to being the "One True" Christian approach.I find it interesting that he takes nearly an entire book to develop the "Christ the Transformer of Culture" idea.
Niebuhr gives 5 types of responses that Christian thinkers and communities have come up with through time.
By giving credit to those who have come before, and acknowledging that the Spirit and God's people work in creative ways beyond the ability of any writer to describe, Niebuhr has written a book that does not just inform the mind, but also shapes the heart of any reader who seeks to engage the issue of the relationship between Christ, His Church, and Culture, as a product of Man in God's created order.
Niebuhr presents 5 views of how Christians see themselves in their cultural context; Radicals, Accomodationalists, Synthesists, Dualists and Conversionists.Radicals see the purpose of the Church as separating itself from culture.
For the Dualist, culture is not something that can be completely Christianized, but is rather best used to restrain the sinful desires of men.
(p 156)” The result is seeing culture as paradoxical; it is good, but as long as men sin its goodness is limited by that sin and restrains it.Finally, Niebuhr presents his own view as a Conversionist.
I think the categories or types Niebuhr discusses and outlines are very helpful for the discussion of Christ and culture, and yet there were times where I felt he was almost portraying a caricature of the people he was presenting as examples of each approach.
So it wasn't the easiest read, though there were places where I think Niebuhr really stumbled across an insightful way to describe something.Ultimately, I think it is a solid book for scholars dealing with engaging culture to read.
And the categories/types Niebuhr discusses can probably be helpful to pastors as they strive to shepherd their people, to help them think well about how to engage culture as a Christian.
Great book as a primer on the intersection on Christianity and Culture.
Of course, the title points to Christ and Culture, but the onus is on how different Christians and streams of faith have engaged (or not engaged) culture.
I think it is fair to say, as Niebuhr does, that not one approach is right all the time, but rather that different contexts and individuals may appropriately call for one approach over another.
The theology is profound, but writing can be dry at times.
Really great book and a must for those studying theology.
Very good explanation of the different views about Christ and His [or lack of a] relationship to culture. It is a very helpful book in giving historical context to many theologians and Christian thinkers who wrestled with the culture of their time; Niebuhr documents men from Augustine, Abelard, Tolstoy, Clement and even Paul, in so doing to help the reader to understand how history, enlightenment, and the christian faith have produced different viewpoints of Christ's virtues and how they relate to Culture as we should try and replicate.
I thoroughly enjoyed Niebuhr's classic work on culture and ministry. Although many have poked at this book as dated or inadequate, I found it to be a great first step in understanding the relationship between the Christ, the Church and the culture. I read it in a study on contextualization and enjoyed the perspective it brought to the conversation. While the book is not modern in every way, it does provide useful guidance that helpful to current work.
A very good book explaining the theology, history and virtues/vices of different patterns of thought and action of those in the church facing the difference of values between Christ and the world we live in.
A brilliant analysis detailing how a Christian's over-emphasis on one facet of the faith and under-emphasis on other facets shapes their beliefs. The author was the brother of famed 20th-c. liberal American preacher Reinhold Niebuhr.
Niebuhr's typology work is excellent, but I find his exemplars to be lacking. At times he gets so deep into the philosophical roots and ideas that it loses much sense of practical application. An important read, but you have to figure out for yourself what it looks like.
The last chapter was so boringly philosophical and depressing!
Throughout each argument Christ is presented as central but the application to culture swings from rejecting homes, property and the protecting hand of government, seen in the life of Tolstoy, to a harmony of Christ and culture.
The latter has a danger of interpreting culture through Christ, but also Christ through culture.Although each of the five arguments is persuasive, Christ and the transformation of culture appear to be stronger theologically.
Niebuhr calls the Christian with this view a `conversionist.' The argument is that God is our Creator and that his creation was `good'.
The work of the Christian is to bring Christ into culture transforming it for our `good'.
Niebuhr compares Luther’s doctrine of the two kingdoms to dualism in that yes, culture is opposed to Christ, but Luther never calls culture evil.
Niebuhr completely ignores Luther’s doctrine on vocation, which posits that Christians must be a part of their culture in order to bring Christ into the world.
Lutheran churches also participated in the Confessing Church to assassinate Hitler, one such prominent Lutheran figure being Dietrich Bonhoeffer.) Niebuhr fails to exclude his bias against Lutheranism from examining its doctrine to give a proper and fair account of it.Secondly, he commits bias towards the conversionist view.
I first read it in seminary years ago, and have since returned to it to contextualize Christians' response to the world.
Coming from a tradition that pitted Christ against culture, one of Niebuhr's 5 categories, it was refreshing for me to see how others have postured the faith in light of what their traditions have taught.
This book helps the Christian to have a holistic view of the Gospel.
This contribution by Niebuhr, a Neo-orthodox theologian, who assessed faith and culture dialectically, helps the evangelical Christian to avoid reducing the Gospel to simply an issue of personal sin, as important and foundational of an issue as that is.
A drawback to this book is that while Niebuhr helpfully uses examples of historic Christian figures to illustrate and demonstrate his points, some of these figures are not so well known.
Augustine and Luther are used, but so are Albert Ritschl and F.D. Maurice (they must have been better known in Niebuhr's day).
A more recent book along the same lines is "To Change The World" by the sociologist James Davison Hunter which I recommend as superior although, like Niebuhr's, in 50 years the figures Hunter uses (e.g. Yoder and Hauerwas) may be just as forgotten as Ritschl and Maurice.
