https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/356066.Dan_Yack
Many times I read a book that pleases me greatly and when tasked with writing a review I wonder who exactly who might be the audience for the work at hand.
Cendrars was an intimate of Abel Gance (do not pass another day without seeing La Roue if possible) and the book reads like a film as Cendrars words do the work of an amazing cinematographer in describing the landscape, characters and events that comprise Dan Yack.
If so read Dan Yack on a cold winter day, so cold that not lowering your ushanka’s ear flaps is not only a crime of vanity but a willful display of disrespect against nature.
Blaise Cendrars might as well be wearing a stripy shirt and sighing between Gauloises on a side street in Montmartre, making care not to get his mustache in his café au lait.
If you like Jacques Tati or Raymond Queneau, you'll like Blaise Cendrars.
If you would have preferred to have spent your life sipping brandy with a sultan, a sea captain, and a courtesan, you'll like Blaise Cendrars.
If you regularly drop the phrase "ceci n'est pas une pipe" into regular conversation, you'll like Blaise Cendrars.
A blazing little fireball of a novel. Set in Paris on Armistice night 1918, a man falls in love with a young girl and they both go sort of mad. An incandescent roman candle of a book. I found out about Cendrars reading Henry Miller's "The Books in My Life" and it's no wonder - you can clearly see the influence Cendrars had on him.
First published in 1929, this is a ‘sequel’ to Cendrars’ earlier delirious masterpiece, *Dan Yack*, which recounted the bizarre adventures of an eccentric millionaire and the three bohemians he takes with him on an overwintering expedition to a remote island off the coast of Antarctica.
It consists of nine ‘cylinders’ (Cendrars recited the book into a dictaphone rather than writing it out by hand) that detail various periods in Dan Yack’s extraordinary life, generally with a focus on or around Mireille, the love of his life, a young girl he rescued from a convent and launches as an actress in films based on the stories of Poe and Hoffmann.
Dan Yack is an astounding character and it’s a shame that Cendrars never resurrected him for yet more adventures.
If you are offended by whaling, whoring and boozing - best to seek your pleasure elsewhere - but if you can enjoy great writing regardless of great morality - you will find something to appreciate here.
Better than Moravagine, not as essential as Dan Yack - this is Cendrars writing about love, blood, sperm, cars, technology and money all with a most casual coolness that I find infectious.
I don't whale or go whoring - but I vicariously enjoy such actions through the vibrant writing of Cendrars.
For a review of this book, along with Gold and Confessions of Dan Yack, check out Centring the Margins: Essays and Reviews:http://www.zero-books.net/books/centr...
For a joint review of Gold, Dan Yack and Confessions of Dan Yack, go here:http://www.jeffbursey.com/downloads/B...
One of those writers whose style resonates well for this reader is Blaise Cendrars.
His novel Dan Yack can be described: "The style is bizarre, full of paradoxes and piquant and ingenious ideas." Thus one of Dan Yack's acquaintances describes a curious book of poetry and in so doing provides an apt description of Cendrars' novel.
The adventures of Yack with three artists, poet and musician and sculptor, on his schooner to Antarctica provide entertainment enough for the reader of this slight tome.
I exceed all my fantasies—even that of writing." (from an Interview in the Paris Review)Dan Yack is a gem--short, sweet, and bizarre.
Dan Yack is an impetuous, generally drunk, clever but eccentric shipping magnate.
When his girlfriend leaves him, he goes on a drinking spree in St Petersburg and impulsively invites three impoverished bohemians sitting at a cafe table, a painter, musician and sculptor, to accompany him on a voyage to a random location that will be determined by aiming a pistol at a large globe of the world and seeing where the bullet strikes.
They end up on an island off the coast of Antarctica...The bohemians slowly go mad in different ways.
I can’t recommend *Dan Yack* highly enough!

I didn't think I'd end up dropping this book onto the ignominious shelf; but I can't bring myself to pick it up again.
More than anything, I object to the stupid, badly written female character who reads like a doe-eyed, imbecile impossibility.
There is some weird, acquisitive, distant and uncomprehending lolita thing going on in this book; but without any psychological depth.
I forget so much, so many things.
I remember that Papa loved to have me with him.
And I too loved going out with him."Barf.I don't care what happens and I only have forty pages left.
I loved Moravagine and finally got the chance to read another Blaise Cendrars book.
Dan Yack is a damn good book with really thrilling and pyrotechnic writing, passages, and plot.
Occasionally Cendrars goes a little over-the-top with his writing, but it's always readable and always great.
The plot is wild; not as wild as Moravagine, but still a crazy adventure following Dan Yack, a ultra-rich lovable asshole with a black heart of gold, who goes from Russia to the arctic to the Chile, drunk and wild the entire time, leaving a wake of damage behind him.Worth a look if you like literary pulp.
Hooray for Dan Yack, a turn of the century Zaphod Beeblebrox. Dan Yack is the young millionaire "all of St. Petersburg is talking about" - just spurned by a woman (for "the" prince) - that invites a poet, a sculptor, and a composer around the world on one of the whaling boats he has inherited. Everyone ends up wintering (summering?) off the coast of Antarctica where Dan Yack loses his monocle and madness preys on his guests. The writing can be incendiary, humorous, and a straight view of the absurd reality of life.
A Nooks McShea recommendation. Not mind blowing like The Tenants of Moonbloom, but a good read with some amazing segments. A rich man who was just jilted by his girlfriend goes on a drunk and asks three artists to join him, all expenses paid, on a trip to the Antarctica. Strange cataclysmic events unfold.
Cendrars has the ability to be intimate and moving in 120 pages to the extent that it kinda shames most writers that try to build that kind of spirit of life and loss up in much longer and tedious novels. This ones a gem.
extraordinary and unpredictable swirling riot of madness, violence and excess. Cendrars' prose is informed by his exotic life with a perspective at once savage, kind, world weary, appreciative and inspired. total head trip
The greatest book ever written by a dude with one arm.
I picked this up for about 50p in a bargain bin and I'm so glad I did! It's a brilliant modernist novel, clever and sad and entertaining in equal measure.
It's Cendrars. Need I write more? Expect discordant travels, steam boat millionaires, swirled n twirled mustaches, and the finer points of attending the Great War.
Swiss guy writes book about English bloke in French read in English - some lovely poetic pokes in dis one - ya typical early modern European stuff - if ya inta that stuff you'll rate it I reckon
Astounding book. Beautiful and crazy and Modernist and intelligent and profound.My full review: http://www.noseinabook.co.uk/?p=2553
As good or better than Morvagine. No one writes like Cendrars. Incredible.
