https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7285498-angelfire
Rating my own book
I’ve thought long and hard to determine if there was a single aspect of this book that I even liked.The characters, the story-telling, the writing, the themes… was there anything? No.  I tried but this book was painfully bad.  I am not at all exaggerating when I report that I fell asleep twice within the first twenty pages.  This book was highly reminiscent of both Buffy and Bleach.  So what?  Pretty much half the things published in YA these days are reminiscent of Buffy.  Unfortunately, you wa
This is sup­posed to be a book about an immor­tal war­rior girl who fights Reapers to save human­ity.
How am I sup­posed to care about the end of the world and the pos­si­bil­ity of a Reaper con­sum­ing my soul and con­demn­ing me to an eter­nity in hell when all Ellie fuck­ing cares about is her par­ties and social stand­ing?
But Ellie never at any point in this novel has a real rev­e­la­tion about the fact that she’s got a divine fuck­ing mis­sion here.
Strange memories and thoughts that didn’t belong to me flooded into my mind: faces and violence I’d seen long ago in different times.
She gets the memories of reincarnated lifetimes so she never has to actually learn how to fight?
“‘You rich girls and your stupid names for your cars,’ Chris said.” I like this guy.
It’d be kinda cool to know what it’s like when my birthday party going wrong is actually a real problem (I don’t think I’ve had a birthday party since I was nine).
I can't really be bothered elaborating much, because if you read my last review of this book you'll know why I hated the shit out of it - but Ellie and Will are Kate and Leonardo.
It could be, if not for Ellie's really fucking annoying and kind of Mary-Sueish ability to magically heal and the fact that even though she's (view spoiler)[the angel Gabriel and (hide spoiler)] this ancient badass warrior, she STILL has to have a man watching her back to make sure she doesn't damage her fragile little ovaries.
You know how with some books, every few words you're like,"Ooooh, ostentatious, that's a good word. Oh, guttersnipe, that's another good word."Well, this isn't one of those books.Not like that's a bad thing. I just mean that it's a very quick and easy read. Prose that's not exactly lyrical, but also not anywhere near boring.  The Rundown "Into every generation she is born: one girl in all the world, a chosen one. She alone will wield the strength and skill to fight the vampires, demons, and the
She is the Slayer Preliator."Chosen One who battles darkness with the help of her "Angelic" love interest and nerdy friends.
Yet, Angelfire lacks the humor and refinement of Buffy, so it ends up being more similar to Mortal Instruments in tone and maturity.With the exception of my absolute love of the show Supernatural, I've never really gotten into the whole heaven-vs-hell thing.
Yes, our main character, named Ellie, is a bit of a Mary Sue and her guardian Will has a major Hero complex, but (God help me) maybe that isn't always the worst thing in the world.
With a refreshing new take on the lately popular Angel subject, Angelfire tells the story of 17-year old Ellie, a seemingly ordinary human girl who suddenly finds out that she’s not so ordinary after all but actually a heavenly creature, reborn into a human shell, destined to fight the monsters from hell.Ellie is basically your average teenager which in my opinion was really nice for a change.
The popular crowd actually mingles with the other kids instead of terrorizing them constantly.What I noticed right off, when I started reading, was the fluent writing.
Still, good, clear fight scenes.The idea is pretty interesting too, though let's be honest: we're only calling this 'unique' because it's decidedly different than Twilight (plotwise anyway) and now and days so much paranormal YA feels like an endless simulacrum, so when you find a book that 'goes against the grain' (and again, in the slightest of ways), you take notice.
Like I've read in another review, there's a difference between action and adventure.
The author seems to be able to convey teens pretty well, except there's so little personality in her writing, it barely ever really comes out.
Aside from occasionally amusing asides (Ell names her white car "Marshmallow"), this book is all over the place. The plot is both simplistic and confused, none of the characters are unique or compelling, and there is a disturbing laxness in parenting (not her father, who's supposed to be unlikeable, but her mother, who calmly accepts her 17 year old and her friends drinking under her own roof). Plus Ell dresses like a slutty nurse for Halloween and goes shopping with her friend, during which the brands BMW, Audi, Badgley Mischka, and Valentino are dropped. Ugh.
I don't want to put up my full review yet since this book is several months away from being published.
I just want to say that THIS BOOK BLEW ME AWAY.
Just a few minutes after I read the last page, I was telling April @ Good Books & Good Wine that the book came at a good time.
And let me tell you, Angelfire measures up.It has the best action/combat scenes I can remember reading ever.
Go out immediately and do whatever it takes to get your hands on a copy.
Angelfire by Courtney Allison Moulton is one of the best angel books I've read in years, and I've read A LOT of them.
With Angelfire, it's like Moulton had a check list of what makes a great young adult book and seamlessly blended all of these components together into this sensational debut novel.
Creeped out by centuries-old guys falling in love with teenage girls?
After reading about one too many TSTL heroines this year, Angelfire was refreshing and original.Frustrated by book series holding their cards too closely and providing no answers?
The stalker, Will, turns out to be her immortal guardian, and she turns out to be the Preliator, Latin for “warrior.” Every time she dies, she eventually reincarnates into another human body, but Will has to wait until she’s seventeen to activate her memories and her power.An uninspired love interestIf you guessed that despite Will’s immortality, he looks about twenty, then kudos.
Serious, but not urgent, it seems, since he has to wait for his Ellie, who sometimes bides her time in the reincarnation process and must grow to the ripe age of seventeen before her powers are activated.
With her newly awakened powers, and under the protection of the bodyguard she doesn’t remember, Ellie must harness her new abilities in order to fight off the demonic reapers and save humanity from a war that could destroy the world.Angelfire was AWESOME.
I loved hearing the stories he would tell about all of Ellie’s past lives, and it made me so sad that she couldn’t remember all the time they spent together.
The most heartbreaking bit though was this little scene at the end where Will and Ellie both discover something huge...I am so excited for the next book now it’s unbelievable.Another character I liked, despite him working for the other side, was Cadan.
Normally I wouldn't write a review if I didn't read at least half of the book in question, but I'm obligated by Amazon Vine to give my honest opinion about a product.
I yielded at 170 pages and refuse to force myself to read something I am not enjoying in the least.First off I cannot feel sympathy for the protagonist, Ellie, which is essential in a book like this.
She's a shallow character who wasn't brought to life in the pages I read.
Perhaps ANGELFIRE is too young for most adults and better suited for teens, but that's up to the reader in question.
Are angels the new vampires, or what?
I think it will be popular regardless, and I'll give the second book a chance to see if Ellie ever becomes as independent as she has the potential to be, and if the author improves her prose the more practice she gets.
ETA: By the way, I finally saw the book trailer for this on YouTube, and it's pretty damn good.
Looks like I found me another series to devour!Angelfire is a kickass debut novel that screams amazing!Love the concept, not only is it unique but it's gripping, suspenseful and action punched with a really sweet romance.
I also loved that Ellie's memory-lost got stretched through out the story.
The romance was set at a leashed pace which was refreshing and made it even more powerful some how.Bottom line, I loved this one.
The concept is brilliant, the writing flows in an even exciting pace and the characters are filled with good wit and are ready to charm.It has all the elements I look for in a good read and then some.
And then, I had another thought—I absolutely love Will…he is the angelic counterpart and BFF of faerie winter prince Ash for me.
Thanks for blessing our hearts with this incredible tale of suspense, woven with one battle after another and closing in on a love so profound and intense I had to squeeze my heart shut so the pain would subside.
And his gorgeous looks don’t even do justice to the allegiance and eternal love he holds for Ellie.
The author did an incredible job with angel folklore and you will want to follow Ellie and Will’s journey as they embark upon the next battle of their lives!
And I have finally/sadly come across an angel book that I am just not that into.
I was so ready to love Angelfire; too bad, it did not meet my expectations.
I was initially sold on the book because of the blurb,When seventeen-year-old Ellie starts seeing reapers - monstrous creatures who devour humans and send their souls to Hell - she finds herself on the front lines of a supernatural war between archangels and the Fallen and faced with the possible destruction of her soul.
Now that Ellie's powers have been awakened, a powerful reaper called Bastian has come forward to challenge her.
I started reading it on Thursday or Friday (it’s been a busy week, so I can’t remember) and gave up yesterday.Whenever I’m reading a book and feeling a little dicey about it, I try to give it at least 100 pages before I finally make up my mind.
Maybe I’m missing the point, but how can I be 108 pages in and not really know where the story is going?
So this book definitely has appeal, just not for me.If you’ve read Angelfire, I’d love to know what you think.
I actually think lack of fatherly love was the problem thrown in by Moulton in this character just so she would be flawed (and please let me do a little complain here.
Moulton makes it sound like the Preliator is so extremely powerful, so extremely skilled, so extremely everything, and yet Ellie gets a protector, who, I believe, pops up in every fight scene and basically wards off all the demonic reapers from Ellie.
But it's already so obvious that I wanted to say, "It's fine, Miss Moulton, you can make Will's and Ellie's feelings about each other official after 200 pages, and your novel still won't be Twilight-ish.
4.5 ★ Wait!!!No whiny female character?No  "I see you and I know that you are my soul mate"?No "you want to kill me and you treat me like crap but I am still madly in love with you"?.. No obsessing?!?God, what's 'wrong' with this book?! ... yeah, I'm being ironic..In fact I mean.. what's right with this book?And the answer is: everything!I think that the author took all the bad things that we find in some paranormal YA, turned them into good stuff and then put them into this story.. And you know
Wait!!!No whiny female character?No  "I see you and I know that you are my soul mate"?No "you want to kill me and you treat me like crap but I am still madly in love with you"?..
Her father is another story and I just have a feeling about him, but I'll see in the next book if I am right or not), we don't have a stupid & forced falling in love for no reason at all, but a sweet romance, after some realistic amount of time, a more healthy falling in love if you want..
Sadly, it was just not for me.The biggest problem I had this book was the writing style.
Also, whenever Ellie and Will were in some dire situation, the main character would somehow break out into some unknown ability to save the day.
Like you’re reading an outline of all the good juicy bits that would later be fleshed out in the real draft.I’m not a fan of the romance.
It’s nothing grand in the world of ya paranormal/fantasy books but I’m sure it’ll entertain a lot of people who read it.
Have you ever loved a book so much you simply have no words to explain your feelings for it?
I found it to be perfect in every way, and I am very excited for future works from the marvelous Courtney Allison Moulton.Angelfire was one of the most original fantasy books I have ever read.
Then you throw characters like Ellie and Will into the mix, who are most definately not human The world is absolutely fascinating.
Between the epic plot, the amazing world, and the charming cast of characters, Angelfire is a book you will be sorry to miss.
“I guess it’s true that loves makes you blind.”“No,” my mom said. “It doesn’t make you blind. You’re very, very aware of everything about the one you truly love, whether you know it from what your eyes tell you or your heart. So no, love doesn’t make you blind. It paralyzes you until you can’t breathe or run away from it.”
In an ever expanding genre and an increasing number of things classified as ‘cliché,’ Moulton breaks through the mold with a six foot sword.Ellie is witty, funny and sprightly.
He has several of his own struggles, and the torment of it is clear and concise even through Ellie’s eyes.Despite how strong of a character Will is, he doesn’t overshadow or wash out Ellie.
The way her relationship with Will evolves makes up a strong part of this book, strengthening both their characters in a tremendous way and paving things for the next installment.Mixing in with Will and Ellie are several of Ellie’s friends as well as people Will knows.
First I was like,But then I was like,That's what it was like for me all throughout Angelfire.
I kept expecting something awesome and unpredictable to happen, but nothing did.
Even when (view spoiler)[Luke found out Darth Vader was his biological father (hide spoiler)] I wasn't surprised.
(view spoiler)[Okay, Luke wasn't really in this book, and neither was Darth Vader, but still.
(hide spoiler)]The point is that this book was just okay.
No offense to her or anything, but I just couldn't really put myself in her position or even side with her.Over all, Angelfire was just...Just okay.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Reviews also on our site:Readers In WonderlandThis was not a good book to read directly after Grave Mercy.Why?Because even trying to compare this shallow, weak heroine with the heroine in Grave Mercy is blasphemy.
So the book pretty much starts off with you knowing the brooding, mysterious, attractive stranger will play a key role as a love interest in the novel.
Of course, the main character (I actually can't even remember her name even though I just finished reading it, let me go look it up) Ellie, hates him at first yet struggles with her intense feelings for him.
The stalker, Will, turns out to be her immortal guardian, and she turns out to be the Preliator, Latin for “warrior.” Every time she dies, she eventually reincarnates into another human body, but Will has to wait until she’s seventeen to activate her memories and her power.An uninspired love interestIf you guessed that despite Will’s immortality, he looks about twenty, then kudos.
Serious, but not urgent, it seems, since he has to wait for his Ellie, who sometimes bides her time in the reincarnation process and must grow to the ripe age of seventeen before her powers are activated.
Rating: 2.5 StarsThe problem with Angelfire is that it's the type of book that makes you stop in the middle of your reading and say, "Where have I read that before?" It's a mix of multiple ideas, philosophies, and imaginations all rolled into one.
For a less prolific reader, I guess this book would come across and stunning and original; however, I found it to be a light and frankly kind of a dull read.
Ellie is actually the Preliator, a being with the body of a human yet gifted with unimaginable abilities used for killing demons.
Street corner tbr May read #4 per tinaAfter completing this I have several thoughts/questions…1. What is up with the Dad? Is he going to be a ‘bad guy’ in the upcoming books?2. Why can Ellie not remember everything?3. Why is she becoming more and more human with each new life? Is she eventually going to be a mere-mortal?4. Why is it so wrong for Ellie and Will to just be together? 5. Why does Michael just show up once every blue moon?6. How could she not know deep down she was an archangel?7. Is
Is he going to be a ‘bad guy’ in the upcoming books?2.
The Book dealt a lot more with love interests than with Ellie’s actual fighting….
Will Ellie and Will ignore the advice/command of the archangel and eventually wind up together?
It read too much like so many other YA fiction books, i.e., love triangle, school, wild best-friend wanting more time with MC, etc… but, once we got to that Halloween Party, I became much more interested.
I’m not going to lie and say this is the Best Book Ever, because it’s not.
I’m left thinking about it and wanting to read the next book.
Like I was with the Hunger games, I was too nice to this book in the beginning. I can't really be bothered to finish this. The writing is way too noobish, the plot while a very good pace feels just like any other clichéd shojo super girl story. This, in all honesty, despite the chances and re-reads I gave it just isn't my cup of tea. That's not to say the author doesn't have potential. And I'm glad she actually bothered to do research. Thank freaking George Carlin than there are still YA authors who bother to do research.
