https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24870.The_Masterharper_of_Pern
His father was Petiron, who ended his days working at Half-Circle Sea Hold which was conveniently located as far away from the Harper Hall as he could get.
He works at High Reaches for a while where he meets and immediately dislikes Fax. In later chapters he sees Lessa as a toddler in a scene that's not completely shoehorned in at all.Oh and while I'm thinking of it, McCaffrey rips off Menolly's table-walking scene at the end of Dragonsinger for Robinton's own promotion to journeyman.
Robinton gets mopey and goes back to the Harper Hall where he ends up working with the Masterharper until his inevitable promotion.
I remember Robinton, Masterharper of Pern always being one of my favorite characters.
This is the story of his life from a newborn until a bit after he becomes the Masterharper of Pern.He is an incredible character with a wonderful story.
His mother and father are both talented musically, which enhances the musical talent in him that he is a prodigy.
He is close with his mother and really has no relationship with his father.
The previous books were alright, but this one shows the real talent of Anne McCaffrey and why the stories of Pern are so captivating and loved.
A book I wanted to love -- it's about Robinton! -- but found incredibly frustrating instead. Between the historical inconsistencies with books that came out both before and after (how can he be teaching students about a document that was lost and forgotten for over 1500 years?) and the attempt to make things fit entirely too neatly, the parts I liked (his childhood and relationship with his parents, which was very well done, and his marriage, which was as well) were overshadowed by the parts that made me grind my teeth.
I've realized that Ms McCaffrey's books offend me in exactly the same way the Sex and the City movies offend me: that the main characters and their dysfunctional relationships are supposed to be somehow sympathetic, if not outright aspirational.
In this book, Robinton himself is less obnoxious than her usual main character (even if I thought the one scene where he compared holding his mom to holding his wife really Freudian and gross,) but Merelan is excessively odious: trying to hide his talents from his horrible father (and there's another terrible relationship the author champions) but getting upset with said father when he doesn't realize the boy's potential.
Thirteenth in the chronological order for the Pern fantasy / science fiction series and revolving around dragonriders and harpers. The focus is on Robinton, a harper who goes on to greatness. The stories are a mess in following a chronological order. It's one reason I undertook a re-read of the series. Click this link if you want to explore my version.My TakeThis one is a biography which provides the background for the three primary stories of the Pern series:  Dragonflight , 14,  Dragonquest ,
And I do adore how well the Harper Hall maneuvers around him while respecting that jerk.It's a good bit of history of Robinton's birth, family life, education, loves, his exposure to the various holds, and the rise of anti-Harper malice with an explanation of other characters who play roles in the coming stories, from F'lon, F'lar and F'nor's father; Camo; Sebell; the man who discovered Menolly's abilities; and, a set-up of the Lord Holders.
MasterComposer Petiron is an exacting harper and Rob's father — and quite jealous of Merelan, Rob's mother and a MasterSinger, spending any time with his own son.The Harper Hall is……where Pern's musicians and healers are taught and is beholden to Fort Hold.
Loved it!
I am highly doubtful McCaffrey intended anything in that manner, but their mother-son relationship felt off to me.Additionally, I got the impression that Petiron didn't like Robinton because he wanted Merelan all to himself, whereas later in the book it tries to frame it as Petiron was jealous of Robinton's musical abilities.
She calls her dad and brothers because she's mad, and then her dad spends three days hitting her until she decides to act right, and her brothers agree that's the only way to make her behave.Lastly, MasterHarper of Pern reneges on prior world-building when it comes to women as harpers.
I like the Harpers of Pern and their role in keeping tradition alive and their role as educators.
It's hard to swallow Petiron as a character and the way everyone puts up with his annoying traits, but is too afraid to tell him how obnoxious he is.
How is he ever supposed to learn if he stays a cosseted prima donna?
I thought that was how a character like Halanna learned to become a better person, by being exposed to her own faults?
Weird.
Finally, the second half of the book was torture.
Suddenly barely anything happened for ages.
A basic premise of the Dragonsinger Trilogy is that women were not trained as harpers--so Menolly is breaking down all kinds of gender barriers on Pern when she goes to Harper Hall. Now in this book we're supposed to accept that Robinton's mother was a renowned harper? I had a hard time getting over that MAJOR continuity issue...and the rest of the book wasn't very interesting either.
He is a favourite character in the Pern series.Would it be wrong of me to hijack my own review and compare the way Anne writes about Robinton with the way her son writes about his own favourite character Kindan.
Anne has passed the storywriting baton to her son Todd McCaffrey who has (imo) mutilated Pern.
Compare this to Todd who put his own Kindan on the hatching grounds three times and cannot resist making him weryling master and involves him in a mating flight despite never impressing a dragon.Another top notch book by Anne McCaffrey.
I've read all the Pern books and think they're basically okay, though they do tend to have a YA feel about them.
Her characters are all interesting but don't have any depth to them.
What she's good at is world-building.
The only books in this series that I've ever re-read are the two featuring Menolly, whose story is more interesting than most.
Robinton is, of course, a beloved character by that time, so it was interesting to read of his early life, but if you've read the other books, you already know most of it.
So it was a fast read without much to linger over or think about.
McCaffrey offers a prelude to her original Dragonrider novels by revisiting a main character of those stories, Masterharper Robinton. However this might be more interesting if he was more of a protagonist and less of an observer to events happening about Pern. This sort of treatment cumulates at the end of the book when Robinton finds himself present to one of the most important scenes of the entire series, a Forest Gump like insertion into the storyline. An ok story, but could have been so much more.
Utter tripe, mangles a previously interesting character by making him a perfect author insert.
Another excellent read by Anne McCaffrey!
Le portrait de Petiron fait limite peur ici, parce que ce n'est pas une mauvaise personne en soi, il ne "fait" rien de mal, il ne maltraite pas son enfant mais pourtant il arrive rien que par son attitude à nous donner envie de le frapper tellement il nous exaspère et qu'on ne le comprend pas.Si d'un point de vue émotionnel ce tome était exceptionnel, il est vrai que si on le prend d'un point de vue rationnel il y a quelques détails qui sont dérangeant et qui ne collent pas vraiment avec certaines choses qu'on avait vu avant.
I'm rereading the Pern books because I was nostalgic.
As much as I love Robinton, this book is the ultimate retconn.As I've been rereading Pern, the inconsistencies (and typos and name issues!) really began to bother me.
I had to wonder who the heck was editing, because there was no cross-checking, and things just don't fit together right.I liked this book, but I have to consider it a fanfic of Pern rather than direct canon.
There's a lot that's been shoehorned in to make Robinton the center of attention, but it doesn't work when compared to any of the books written previously.
This book covers a lot of ground.
It's interesting to see what pieces of Robinton's life McCaffrey zeroes in on and what pieces she summarizes -- unfortunately because it starts so early with Robinton's birth, there is quite a lot of summary.I enjoyed this read, for sure, but there is a part of me that almost feels a little bit like Robinton might have been better served by the pre-existing mystery.
Some characters, like Boba Fett (and Darth Vader) in Star Wars, lose some of their magic when we know too much about them, and I can't help but feel, a little bit, that this holds true for Robinton, too.But then, the Wunderkind has never been my favorite trope.
I normally like the Pern books, but this one fell sort of flat for me.
The core drama revolves around the harpers and a particularly greedy man named Fax, who starts gobbling up Holds.
There's very little to do with the dragonriders, although they do appear occasionally, and much time is spent on the main character's poor relationship with his father.
Love interests also die surprisingly quickly, making it hard to care about them as characters or feel any involvement in the relationships.It's a serviceable book, it just doesn't feel much like a Pern book, as nearly all of the plot could happen just as well anywhere.
I love Robinton, and I really, really wanted to love this book. It was ok ... but only ok. I wish she'd get someone else to check for historical inconsistency as it bugs me immensely when it pops up.
(I forgave Moreta's Ride being different in Moreta than in the original trilogy because it's quite believable in-world that the characters of the 9th Pass would get the details wrong after 1000 years, but little things like T'Kil somehow being given a rider honorific at birth and Menolly being given a retcon 10th fire lizard were minor irritants for me even as a child.)But the works overall usually more than make up for these things: the fantastic worldbuilding balances out run-of-the-mill prose, villains at least have motivations beyond Just Being Evil, and I'll gladly put up with minor continuity issues for Pern's otherwise mind-blowing, century-spanning time travel story arcs.This book is not like that.
Not in my opinion.In this book we read about a well loved character Robinton, the Masterhaper of Pern.
I loved his character in the other books, and therefor was looking forward to read more about him.
plain.I read Pern for the dragons!
And would have loved to read more about the relations between Weyr, Hall and Hold.
If I want that story, I take that book and it does not add anything to the story of the Masterharper.--SPOILERS IN THE NEXT PART-So we read that the childhood of Robinton was not as bad as some, and not as good as some.
This should have been a wonderful book, it's about Robinton one of the most likeable characters in the Pern books.
It wouldn't be so bad if McCaffrey stayed true to her own plots and continuity.
Continuity glitch #1: Robinton's mother is a Harper?
As a youth Robinton can talk to dragons, any dragon.
In Dragonquest Lessa tells Robinton that only two people on Pern can talk to any dragon, herself and Brekke.
Yet Robinton has forgotten his ability to commune with dragons.
I wouldn't, would you?Masterharper of Pern is a very flawed book.
It's weird, but it happens with more of her characters that I care count, and doesn't do the male characters who show them up any favors either.I feel that most of the book was really just McCaffrey wanting to go into detail about the fifty years before Lessa became Weyrwoman, and so she contrived ways to have Robinton appear at all the major turning points of history during those years.
Granted, if you do want to learn about what the other Holders were like during this period on Pern, that is where this book shines.
This is all about good old Robinton, and takes us forward from his birth until the confrontation between F'lar and Lord Fax in Ruatha that took place in Dragonflight.The hook of this story is the events, largely centered around Fax, at the end of the long turn.
Without those I think this book would have less of an impact and not be a great standalone read.
Certainly enjoyed hearing the story of how Fax became what he was in Dragonflight and understanding some of the history between Fax and F'lar.
The only thing I didn't like was secretly placing Robinton in Ruatha during the events.
In earlier books in this series, we meet Masterharper Robinton, but what do we know of his early life?
This is his story, from his birth up through the events at Ruatha Hold that lead off the first book Dragonflight.
From his earliest childhood Robinton is immensely musically talented — but his father never notices.
In addition to the story of Robinton, this book also tells the story of Pern itself in the fifty years or so before the next Threadfall.
But there are all to many who dismiss the idea that Thread will return, which leads to clashes between Hall and Hold.
This is the biography of Robinton, the masterharper who plays such a big part in the main thread of the story.
As a journeyman harper he travels to various holds so you get to learn quite a bit about everyday life on Pern, and you meet some of the main characters as youths and children.
You get the story of Robinton's true love and her tragic demise.
It ends where the main cycle begins, with Flar's fight with Fax and the discovery of Lessa.
Good reading if, like me, you always want to know more about the background of the characters in a story.
I always enjoy this book when I re-read the entire series, and then about  of the way through, I remember how sad it is! The last  doesn't really make up for the intense grief. In fact, the tension and conflict stretch out with very little relief until the very last scene, which will be familiar to anyone who had read Dragonflight. The author basically takes the beginning scenes of Dragonflight and retells them from a different perspective, which is highly interesting. But it really ends on a cl
I always enjoy this book when I re-read the entire series, and then about ¾ of the way through, I remember how sad it is!
The last ¼ doesn't really make up for the intense grief.
In fact, the tension and conflict stretch out with very little relief until the very last scene, which will be familiar to anyone who had read Dragonflight.
The author basically takes the beginning scenes of Dragonflight and retells them from a different perspective, which is highly interesting.
But it really ends on a cliffhanger and must be followed by Dragonflight to offer any closure.
This one gives the back story on a character from some of the early books.
Robington is seen from the time he is a child, growing up under a stern father and loving mother.
In fact, those alive have never seen it and only know of its existence through legend.
Reading in the order of publication was a bit confusing, because things hinted at had already happened in earlier books.
If you are a long time fan, dust off the cobwebs and try to remember all that has happened, that will happen again.
I enjoyed this read, but having not read the other Pern books in awhile, I didn't notice all the continuity errors.
Until the other reviewers mentioned them.
All that aside, it's not horrible.
I found it more interesting than some of the earlier prequels.
McCaffrey wanted to introduce the characters of Dragonflight.We meet Robinson at his birth to Harper parents.
He is a musical prodigy, which his self-absorbed composer father fails to notice.
He progresses quickly and befriends F'Lon (father of F'Lar and F'Nor) .
He can also talk to dragons.
He eventually becomes MasterHarper.
I though this book was okay. The characters have a little more depth than the usual McCaffrey cut-out, but I don't think that the Robinton portrayed in this story is the Robinton that we see in the rest of the series. I just ignored the fact that they were supposed to be the same person and just went along with the story. There are some huge time jumps as well that I wish had been fleshed out a bit more. But overall I'd say it's better than at least half of the other Pern books in the series so far.
