https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1568973.The_Haunted_Attic
I read all the Judy Bolton books when I was a young girl.
65I was named after her by my sister.About 5 years ago I found a fan club for her on line and I joined it and bought and re-read every book along with the group.
I gave my collection to my granddaughter Ashley and it started her reading and she now is in college and plans go into criminal justice.Hmmmm!!
and go to the places referred to in the books..One of the fans is the authors daughter and a few of her cousin.
Judy Bolton is part of who I am...
It belonged at one time to Vine Thompson who was the leader of a gang and who died but left behind hidden loot.Judy has major problems at school since some students make the assumption that she stole a valuable ring and are now shunning her.
His grandparents refuse to give him any information about them.Judy plans to hold a Halloween party, but it seems the attitude of the girls at school will cause them to shun her party.
Still, there are the mill girls that she can inviteThe book shows just how quickly students can turn on another one, and how easily it is to not bother to find out if one is really what you accuse them of being or not.
I enjoy a good mystery and I'm a sucker for old books, so I picked this one up at a secondhand shop on a whim.
Unfortunately the Mean Girls subplot came with a side of Spite Party, and I kept wishing Judy had just thrown Lois's ring back in her face the moment she started acting like a jerk.
Still, I was glad when that plot resolved itself and the other girls came to Judy's party anyway.
I was definitely more invested in the mystery, which is a good sign that at least the subplot didn't completely bleed into the main plot.
Another very good Judy Bolton Mystery.
This is the second in a series where time moves along and the characters grow up. This novel lets the reader get to learn more about the characters that we met in the first book and meet new ones that will play important roles as the series/lives progress.This is one of my favorites as it involves Judy dealing with "class" issues as well as fitting in at her new high school and forming friendships.
A childhood favorite that rereading reveals to be terribly rickety in terms of plot, but still satisfying in a nostalgic way. I hadn't recalled there being so much about class: Judy Bolton (like Nancy Drew, but better) lives on the dividing line between the more affluent and working class neighborhoods, and wants to be friends with both the girls who go to high school ("her set") and the girls who work at the mill. Gee whiz, she's a neat girl!
This is a weaker story in some ways but it does introduce us to Irene and the other mill girls. I can see why the bullying would appeal to young readers. Horace is starting to get stronger.The most interesting part was that this edition had an introduction by Margaret Sutton telling how she came to write the stories. Most of them were based on true events. She was making up stories to tell her step-daughter. Never knew that.
Judy Bolton gave Nancy Drew a run for her money in the early "girls' mysteries" genre. Judy is less perfect than Nancy and actually goes to school, has fights with friends, and has a haunted attic. Margaret Sutton wrote a whole series of these. I'll see if I can find some more. I believe in the later ones, Judy grows up and gets engaged. In this book she is in her first year of high school. Some interesting class struggles between the regular high school and technical school.
I didn't put a read date in because I have read this book and every other one in the series so often that I have lost track. My love of Judy Bolton started in the 60s and continues to this day. Margaret Sutton based many of her stories on real events and created in Judy the best girl detective that ever sleuthed her way through a novel. Unlike other girl detectives of the era, Judy matured as the books progressed. The stories are well plotted, suspenseful and believable.
I am enjoying re-visiting the past and reading some of the Judy Bolton books that I read many years ago while in high school. This is the second in the series, and it picks up the events of the first book and continues the story. It's a quick read, but it held my interest. In fact, I couldn't put it down until I had "solved the mystery" along with Judy.
I received a few of these mystery books as a teenager. I loved them then and am now rereading them. Loved them then and love them now. It is interesting how the mind works and what you can find if you look . You will always find a reasonable answer to any situation. Judy and Horace did in the Haunted Attic. Now it is no longer haunted. They are a quick read.
I LOVE these Judy Bolton books-- just discovering them now that I'm 40! I'm on a vintage young adult kick. They are just what you think -- they ooze charm, are romantic, visual, exciting, a little predictable. But they do make fun reading. I'm tearing through all the Margaret Sutton titles and fining I'm really looking forward to bedtime and picking up my books again!
I missed the Judy Bolton books growing up (probably because I didn't like Nancy Drew), and I've only read the first 10 or so as an adult. I really enjoyed these, and sometime when I have the time (and the money) I would like to track down the series and read them in order.
This book was much better than the first and had a lot more mystery. I really enjoyed this one as it gave Judy, the main character a reality check in a way. She's a character you could relate to, or your grandmother could if she grew up in the time period of the book.
I like attics. I loved this book.
One of my favorite books as a child, it took me forever to find it again. I have always loved the story and somehow failed to notice it was a series.
Pretty good mystery story.....
I Finished this book in a day! it was really intresting!! never boring except for at the beginning!
I admit it. I love girls series books. I have been reading Judy Bolton books this summer. Well, it's summer and they are fun.
so much more fun than Nancy Drew - she was a real kid!
Great story!!! Loved it as much as the first one...glad I ordered #3 so it's sitting here waiting for me. Love the innocent, clean (and yet exciting) mystery! And yeah, if I was a girl, I'd totally have a crush on Peter. :-)I appreciated how the author made a point to show that things done in anger have repercussions...and that the heroine isn't a perfect individual. Judy learned a few important lessons about friendship in this one.
These books were fine when I was nine but teenagers saying “splendid” just seem incongruous now.
Good entry in the Judy Bolton series.
