https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/244659.The_Age_of_Jackson
Schlesinger calls this a “legend” and instead convincingly argues that the idea was more potent to northern states where there had been a long established wealthy class (307).Schlesinger is a gifted writer and clearly knows his time period, but The Age of Jackson is a work of popular scholarship, intended for an educated general readership embroiled in a war against fascism.
Schlesinger’s language likewise lets the reader know who to accept or oppose, for whereas Jackson is sincere and benign in his execution of authority, Nicholas Biddle, head of the Second Bank of the United States and Jackson’s nemesis, is shown to be “drunk with power” (87).In at least one way, however, Schlesinger is atypical of the American public for which he was writing, though perhaps not of the intelligentsia of which he was a part.
Taney, John Quincy Adams and James Polk to mention a few.The Age of Jackson was an age of conflict: conflict between classes, regions and personalities.
This work begins in 1829 with Jackson’s ascension to the White House and continues until Jacksonians complete their public service after the Civil War.What I like most about this book is the way it follows the personalities and issues who entered the public stage with Jackson throughout their careers.
I found it interesting that the contemporary charge that Jackson erred in his expulsion of the Indians along the Trail of Tears merits no mention in this work.
Maybe I'm grafting my own worldview on too much, but it almost seemed like the Politico view of history (all what one person said to/about another person, and about political positioning) rather than history that also explores the ultimate merit (or lack thereof) of actual policies.It's also hard to swallow how long the book takes to acknowledge the central role of slavery in so many of the sectional and other debates of the era ...
The book also avoids wrestling with other aspects of Jackson, completely ignoring his treatment of Native Americans and lionizing his commitment to democracy (and the little guy) without really even acknowledging the exclusion of many men and all women from the political process that continued to occur.
Unless you are studying the pre-Civil War period of our country, I would not suggest reading this book.
It is a dense read, revolving around the Jacksonian democratic philosophy accentuated by Andrew Jackson.
Schlesinger focuses much more on theoretical arguments of agrarianism/Jeffersonian principles and how they interact with Jackson's more hard-money, pro labor philosophy that espoused state rights - but only to a certain extent.
Schlesinger was a liberal historian, and that bias does come out in the book.
If you are looking for a much more readable, yet still intellectually challenging, book about this period, I suggest Daniel Walker Howe's "What Hath God Wrought."
Writing in 1945, Schlesinger wrote this book to honor the Democratic Party of Jackson and van Buren for extending the democratic franchise and strengthening the role of government.
The Democrats also strengthened the Federal Government, helping provide the powers that would aid the Union in the Civil War. They pushed for codification of the law and for allowing incorporation without requiring specific legislation for each corporate charter: the old method led to monopolies sanctioned by the state.
Van Buren ordered a 10 hour work day on Federal projects without loss of pay.Democrats led the successful push for the legalization of labor unions.
The Age of Jackson is a novel documenting the massive populist movement that begins because of Andrew Jackson. The book descriptively explains every issue and event that occurs during the time right before this era, the actual presidency of Jackson, and the populist era that occurs after Jackson’s presidency. The first part of the book is about the early stages of America after the ratification of the Constitution. This section talks mostly about the federalist vs. anti-federalist debate. The ne
The book descriptively explains every issue and event that occurs during the time right before this era, the actual presidency of Jackson, and the populist era that occurs after Jackson’s presidency.
The next part of the book is about Jackson’s presidency and the age of populism that follows.
This part goes through many of the issues that occurred during his presidency such as the trail of tears, a lot of time is spent talking about how Jackson was able to veto the Bank of the United States, and also the nullification crisis.This was a very interesting book to read, it is extremely descriptive and well written.
http://bestpresidentialbios.com/2013/...“The Age of Jackson” by Arthur Schlesinger, Jr. was published in 1945 and won the 1946 Pulitzer Prize in the History category.
What Schlesinger’s book is, first and foremost, is a political science treatise – a discussion of Jacksonian democracy and the evolution of classical liberalism.Second, and in a much narrower sense, it is an interesting (but not comprehensive) book on American history during the first half of the nineteenth-century.
And Jackson’s apparent failure to seriously question the morality of slavery never seems to come up, either.Overall, “The Age of Jackson” is an interesting, provocative and reasoned analysis of a broad swath of American history and political transformation.
A meaty read for anyone interested in American history, Schlesinger ranges broadly to give the reader a feel for the issues, conflicts, personalities and background of the period from 1830 to just after the Civil War.Democracy was interpreted in a very constricted way in the early years of the United States.
Nicholas Biddle, even disputed the power of the U.S. President to have any say on what the Bank did, though the government was generously allowed 5 places on the 30 person board of bank directors.Once Jackson got into office the Bank had a limited time to live to the great acclaim of the common folk in the Eastern U.S. and the consternation of the industrialists in the East and the speculators in the West.Schlesinger launches his book on this issue.
The age of Jackson, as Schlesinger tells it, was the age of expanding enfranchisement under the reign of King Mob. In this sense, Schlesinger is personally a fan of Jackson; the image of Jackson as backwoods commoner and champion of the working man fits the liberal narrative that Schlesinger tells, and there is little historical static to get in the way of that.
That disinterest in the smaller scales of history, in the everyday ramifications of Schlesinger's philosophizing and politicking, also makes this book a chore to read.
I read this during the winter of the year I took U.S. Government, a required class at Maine Township South High School, probably during the Xmas break as I recall curling up with it in front of the fireplace one evening when the parents had gone to bed.
Indeed, I might have finished it in that one sitting as it is short and the reading of it is swift--as if it were a good novel.My teacher, Mr. Ellenberger, was a recent graduate of Grinnell College as were a couple of other better-than-average teachers at South and my own father.
This book, rather than being about Andrew Jackson himself, is about Jacksonian democracy and the Jacksonian Era. Schlesinger is not the easiest author to read, though his work is now a classic. For more on Jackson himself I would recommend the work of Robert Remini.
Not really a biography per se, it more a political study of a particular time in our nation's history.
In fact, it is probably the best book on politics that I have ever read.
And the effects of Andrew Jackson and his followers' political philosophy are still being felt today.
If you want to know why the Republican party of Abraham Lincoln becomes the party of Trump, read this book.
If you want to know how the Republican party continues to fool the electorate into believing they have the best interests of the "people" at heart, read this book.
Andrew Jackson was one of those Presidents that you sorta know about, but you don't really know about until you've read a history of him.
While this one by Schlesinger isn't the best, it's a good overview of his Presidency (but not his life).Just to give you a taste: Jackson was not well-liked among the financial aristocracy of his time.
He was a lonely man - his wife passing away three weeks after his election - and was also very lucky, surviving not one, but two assassination attempts on his life.Nor was he the best of Presidents - especially in his view and treatment of Native Americans.
The banking war takes up the majority of the book and is an incredibly interesting fight to read about.
All in all though, what was covered was very compelling, if likely biased, reading.
The Jacksonian and Jeffersonian eras likely have a lot to teach us about our own, but, undoubtedly, we won’t know enough to benefit from the past, we’ll just pick out pithy quotes and use them for our own purposes, no matter their original intent.
This is an important history of the events leading up to, during, and immediately after the presidency of Andrew Jackson. Schlesinger was exhaustive in his research, and brilliantly laying out significant issues, and transformations of American culture that have a legacy lasting into this century. Unfortunately his final chapters strayed from the disciplined historian and were increasingly coloured by his political ideals of the mid-20th century.This is a great read, despite its minor flaws.
I would have rated this 4 stars except for the fact that the writing is very choppy and I often found it a slog, rereading to capture the main point....obviously the Pulitzer Prize committee didn’t value the writing as highly as the subject matter.The most interesting point of the book for me is the realization that the major issues in today’s American politics are not new...they were hotly debated in the 1830-1850 era....the wealthy and their ties to government versus the working man....private property versus public policy....liberals versus conservatives Of course the author’s far left liberal philosophy colors the narrative.
Thus, the most serious discussions of the Jacksonian policy were to be held in the most industrial states (Massachusetts & New York)* George Bancroft and Radicalism in Massachusetts: Staunch supporter of the workingmen* Radicalism in New York: Democratic party was dominant here and so Jacksonian policy began with the groups trying to control the party leader (Martin Van Buren)* Rise of the Locofoco's: These were friction matches that they lit at Tammany Hall.
This abridged work leads with the perceptive quote of George Bancroft that typifies the question of Jacksonians and their antebellum age: "The feud between the capitalist and the laborer, the house of Have and the house of Want, is as old as social union, and can never be entirely quieted; but he who will act with moderation, prefer facts to theories, and remember that every thing in this world is relative and not absolute, will see that the violence of the contest may be stilled, if the unreasonable demands of personal interests are subjected to the decisions of even-handed justice....George Bancroft, 1834"Author Arthur Schlesinger Jr. distills the age of Jackson in the larger context of American history in his own sage summation as, "American history has been marked by recurrent swings of conservatism and liberalism.
This in-depth treatment of the age of Jackson (not in particular his biography so it extends well beyond his presidency) showed me that in many ways things were not so different then as now.
As near as I can tell, banks were able to print their own notes which basically provided the paper currency.
In that era, the fluctuations of value in paper bank notes meant that workers were paid in paper money when the value was high and then lost out when its value plummeted.
(Apparently names for small political groups and their views were just as catchy as terms such as Tea Party today.)
When I first began reading this book, I assumed it would be a biography of sorts about Andrew Jackson; although the seventh president gets a lot of focus, it expands this to all of the players of the Jacksonian era (1820s-1850s), looking at everyone from John C.
It is an incredibly detailed look at the interactions between the interests of that era, expanding well beyond just Andrew Jackson (and only giving scant mention to rumors or personal details about him).
If you are looking for a book on the Jacksonian Era and how it eventually smacked into the fight over slavery and Civil War, The Age of Jackson is for you.
IN THE AGE OF JACKSON is not a biography of the legendary president.
Schlesinger is best known for this book as well as his 1000 DAYS which is a laudatory history of the Kennedy administration.Schlesinger is the most celebrated of the presidential historians and I don't think he really deserves that honor.
His poll of historians that rank the presidents is considered the barometer of presidential performance.
Apparently, Schlesinger does not.This book won the Pulitzer Prize for history in 1946.
Scholarly and tedious, yet full of relevant lessons in today's political environment.
I spent March and the better part of April working my way through simply to understand the history of that period better.
I came away with more than I bargained for - understanding more than 50 years of American political strategy from a passed over era.
Today's Republican political environment tends to pass over the Jackson era in laying a claim (quite false we learn) on the original intent of the Founding Fathers.
We can learn that neither Bush or Obama can claim the market on Executive Directive to fight a recalcitrant congress.

Witness the progression of Democracy in the formative years of the United States. The era of the Founders is just about over. Some remnants still live and the attitude of the affluent minority tries to influence a government that is truly of the people. Jackson's struggle against Biddle is here in fine detail. The early secession movement of John C. Calhoun is established in Southern political beliefs. The growth westward... All these struggles are explored in wonderful detail, but not so detailed that the reader becomes bored. A terrific history book for the era.
The amazing story of how the 2nd central bank was defeated in the mid-19th century by radicals who spoke against the American aristocracy that had arisen during the years when complacency settled over the land in the post-Revolution era. The country went through a dramatic political realignment that is especially encouraging to study in light of our modern struggle to abolish the Federal Reserve.
This was a very unobjective, partisan take of Andrew jackson in the Bank War. It was completely out of touch with the historiography that existed by the time Schlesinger wrote (1945). Don't use it as a source for the Bank War; read it to see Schlesinger twist history around to show that Jackson gave precedent to FDR's New Deal.
Not a biography of Jackson if that's what you're looking for. (Fine by me.) It offers some great accounting and analysis of the battle of the Second National Bank. Glosses over some of the awful things about Jackson and no mention of his hair.
This was excellent in its day but, in my view. has been largely made obsolete by Daniel Walker Howe's Pulitzer Prize-winning What Hath God Wrought? Democrats were in power when this was published and felt flattered somewhat by it, I suppose, but I think it goes much too easy on Old Hickory.
Good, maybe a bit dry for my taste.
Definitely not a biography of Jackson, but a good discussion of the times in which he lived.
