https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2454986.Fairy_Tail_Vol_1
Three words. Best. Series. Ever. If you liked One Piece You will definitley love this. Funny, Actiony, Awesome. Better art than One Piece but still similar to the funloving series. Centered around nakama or friends/family. Hiro Mashima definitley has an imagination and is just completely awesome. Long Live Fairy Tail!
This is a wonderful book that belongs to a wonderful series! It's creative how some people can use different kinds of magic like fire, ice, celestial and more. The drawings are great. The characters all have their own hidden past, that you'll get to read later on. The characters in this series all also have their own personality. The plot is great as well. There are several arcs that keep you reading more. I enjoyed this book. It is one of my favorites. I would recommend it anyone who likes manga, magic, fantasy and action.
Rave Master was a completely generic, aimless, boring, and incomplete series and you can easily see they are reusing the same character archetypes from there.
It plays out like some MMO game, where you join a guild and take seemingly irrelevant to one another missions, while at the same time leaving a few openings for character colorization and world-building.
Some character’s past is revealed, some old enemies of him appear, some sinister plan of mass destruction takes place, and then the heroes storm in and win with the power of friendship.
This is my MOST FAVORITE anime and manga of ALL TIME!
So much laughter laced with the thrill of excitement as each magic battle takes place.
Also, some of the moments are really sad or beautiful that even I sometimes cried!
And that is the truth.
I love the different kinds of magic a wizard could have.
Also, I really admire the bond between the Fairy Tail members; they have complete trust in one another and would rather give up their life instead of harming a comrade.
Love you Fairy Tail!!!
This is the best first volume I've ever read! It's funny, engaging and a bit unpredictable. I don't normally read ongoing series (still haven't read Bleach, One Piece, Hunter X Hunter, Attack on Titan... you get the drift). I just hate waiting for the next issue. Silly me, I thought I'd take a glance at the first chapter and ended up getting completely hooked. Now I have to burn through 495 chapters and keep an eye out for future chapter releases.
No sabía si comenzar a leer esta serie o no, pero me gusta tanto el anime que no me he podido resistir, y de momento no me arrepiento. ¡Me gusta tanto Natsu! <3
Decided to finally start this manga. So far it's really good and hilarious. I just really want to get to know the dark pasts of all the characters.
Natsu and Happy overhear that Salamander is of the Fairy Tail Guild.
Natsu himself is more or less a human Salamander - as opposed to the character, Salamander, who just uses fire magically.Lucy joins Natsu and Happy on their journey, which takes them back to their guild - Fairy Tail (surely you saw it coming?) - and the trio are an interesting alliance.
Fairy Tail Guild is every bit as raucous as mentioned earlier but Natsu's soft heart gets him to accept an assignment from a young boy who's father is a guildmember.
I cannot wait to get to the second book! I love Hiro Mashima's art and stories and just now I'm going to love this series! A fun filled, hilarious new series following wizards and a happy companion (pun intended, his name is happy)! Involving wizard guilds, odd jobs, and a completely different sort of magic!
On the year 7/7/7 all dragons disappeared from the world since then Natsu has joined a mage guild called fairy tail.
In the beginning of the story a celestial spirit user by the name Lucy is tricked by another mage then saved by Natsu who later asked her to join the guild.
After fighting the dark guild and having their guild decimated they rebuild and get new allies Igneel the iron dragon slayer and Lluvia after this incident Laxus another dragon slayer from fairy tail attacks the guild so he can take control of as it's new master.
Simply the best! "Even if I can't see. Even if I can't hear. I have light inside me. The path I walked with my friends, is bringing light to my future. I don't fear anything! This isn't even worthy of being called pain! The worst pain is.. The pain of losing your light." -Erza Scarlet
Me limitaré a decir que es cierto que soy injusto dándole una estrella al primer volumen de Fairy Tail —cuando el autor todavía se sentía motivado para crear un rico universo y dar forma a una historia y a unos personajes interesantes, aunque fueran prototipos que hemos visto mil veces en el género—, pero lo que importa es su desarrollo, y como Fairy Tail termina siendo un esperpento aborrecible plagado por el peor fan service que he visto en un manga no erótico.Es tan obvio, tan triste, que Mashima ha sacrificado hasta la última gota de su amor propio para mantenerse arriba en el competitivo mundo del manga, que no se si sentir tristeza por él o enfadarme por haberme tomado el pelo los años que seguí interesado las aventuras de Natsu y su guild.No os recomiendo para nada leer este extenso manga.
It is dynamic, it keeps you on your toes (and with your face between its pages), and it is incredibly funny.One of my other favorite mangas is Bleach.
For details, see my review on Bleach, Vol. 1.NARUTO: The plot is excellent but I wish there was some more character development.
Look out for more reviews!)Fairy Tail: Well developed characters, phenomenal plot line, this one has a lot of great merits to it.
Not sure I'm ok with that which is why Lucy is not high in the rankings of characters I like (plus she doesn't do much unless she's one-on-one).Gray, I guess, would fit into the whole sexual innuendo thing because he takes his clothes off a lot.
This was so much fun and a perfect introduction to manga if you haven't read any before! I'm glad that it was a little different than the show so it kept it really interesting. I just love fairy tail, so I'll definitely be continuing soon since I'm in such a reading-slumpy mood.
A thoroughly enjoyable manga that is hilarious, exciting and fun. With a great drawing style and memorable characters this is a manga that I'd definitely recommend!
Would love to be part of their world.
I watched a few episodes of the anime at one point and really enjoying it, so I've been considering getting the manga for months now.
Unfortunately, it's very long and not yet finished, so I kept postponing it until I finally saw it on Humble Bundle today and jumped at the opportunity (45 volumes at the price of about 2 volumes?
SIGN ME UP!)Anyway, the first volume is a fairly good start to the series - there's the compulsory "pilot" episode where a minor issue is solved and characters get to display their various powers (Lucy can summon cool spirits, Natsu does fire magic and Happy is an occasionally flying cat), personalities and motivations.
And it’s not long before this team gets established into adventure-seeking pattern, light on the character motivations sure, but heavy on the action and banter-y humor.In fact, with the broad characters and the guild and the taking of missions posted on a cork board in their guild office (a tavern) in which all the other colorful guild members hang out to provide useful commentary, and the relentless pace of said missions… why, the story feels suspiciously like an RPG (specifically in my limited experience, like FF12), well, expect minus the level grinds and the getting hopelessly lost and the hours of upfront backstory (so almost nothing like FF12).
Rating: 2.5 starsI don’t really have much to add about Fairy Tail volumes 4-6 that I didn’t already say in my original review of the manga.
With friends like this, is Lucy better off with her enemies?Review - I love the world of fairy tail it's a world where there are wizards and magic guilds .
And we meet Lucy a celestial wizard this Manga is funny and really enjoyable then we meet natsu the salamander and happy a flying cat .And there is this guy who is putting spells on people to fall in love with him .
Lucy wants to get into fairy tail because if your not in a guild your not a real wizard .
So I basically said everything I love about this book in my last update so this review isn't going to be very long :/ Well, as I have said, Fairy Tail is just one of those mangas/animes that just make you smile at the thought.
I love how it's a serious, yet heart-warming book can be.
As you read the manga you just kinda feel like you're experiencing everything in person because the emotions are just so spot on!
Also, I really appreciate the idea that everyone in the guild has very hard or depressing past, but everyone smiles.
So just smile, it makes life a little better!
I watched other animes but Fairytail is the only anime I am updated and the only anime I dedicated my life.
(But now, I want to dedicate my life on Haikyuu, too.
:D)Now, there's a Filipino- translated version of this (and volume 2) so I think I will read the manga.
I know, there are scanned volumes of Fairytail on the internet but I don't like to read manga on the internet because I'm lazy.
Lol. So I will seize the opportunity that they're publishing a translated version to read Fairytail.
And I hope they continue to do it until the last volume of Fairytail.
Me ha gustado bastante este primer tomo, me parece un buen inicio.Sí que es verdad que el desarrollo es más bien lento y le cuesta avanzar a la historia, especialmente en el segundo capítulo. Pero también es cierto que deja ver a bastantes personajes que pintan como redondos y que son muy interesantes a primera vista.Tengo curiosidad en continuar leyendo la saga porque sí que es verdad que la idea me gusta mucho y creo que puedar ofrecernos mucho más que esta historia. Es un comienzo de una saga que puede llegar a ser excelente en sus posteriores tomos.
I've caught up on the anime and now I'm going to start the manga. 49 volumes to go.
This is one of the FUNNIEST books I've ever read because the facial expressions are so crazy and weird !

This was my 1st try at manga / graphic novels. It was fun and cute. It took me a little while to get used to the reading style but all in all really great start to a series.
Set in the fictional kingdom of Fiore, where wizards and magic is everywhere, we meet our first main character Lucy.
She is on a quest to join one off the most famous (and infamous) guilds in the land, "Fairy Tail".
Lucy runs into 2 other main characters in the first chapter, Natsu and happy.
They quickly become friends and Natsu brings Lucy back to join thier guild Fairy Tail!
Lucy is much smarter and has a lot more commen sense then the other two, but it works better for their relationship because she is the brains, natsu is the muscle, and happy is the funny guy.

Great!! I LOVE fairy tail. I'm surprised at how accurate the anime turned out in comparison (at least for vol 1. Don't burn me at the stake, I haven't read any further!)But did notice at least one detail that was cut from the anime (really small insignificant detail.) :D I look forward to reading more.
Fairy Tail is my favorite anime, and I have no doubt that this will be my favorite manga. It's fantastic, I love all the characters. (Gray mostly though. <3) *I'll put a full review once I get caught up in the manga.*
