https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7746.Fear_and_Loathing_in_Las_Vegas_and_Other_American_Stories
“No sympathy for the devil; keep that in mind. Buy the ticket, take the ride...and if it occasionally gets a little heavier than what you had in mind, well...maybe chalk it off to forced conscious expansion: Tune in, freak out, get beaten.”  When I was attending college at the esteemed institution of the University of Arizona I scored a ticket to see Hunter S. Thompson. My book friends were green with envy or it could have just been the pallor left over from the drinking bout the night before. A
Thompson called this book a failed experiment, "a style of 'reporting' based on William Faulkner's idea that the best fiction is far more true than any kind of journalism." This book is one of best examples of Gonzo Journalism.
"Gonzo journalism is a style of journalism that is written without claims of objectivity, often including the reporter as part of the story via a first-person narrative.
Reporting on the race is soon abandoned as the duo begin experimenting with a cornucopia of recreational drugs.
The artwork of Ralph Steadman really enhanced the experience of reading the book.
Thompson had shown up for the event.
One of the few books out there that literally made me laugh out loud. As your lawyer, I advise you to read it.
The book starts off hilariously funny, some of the things they get up to and how they stay under some kind of control makes for an awesome read.It's not all fun and games though, the fear and the loathing soon start to creep into them, there is so much paranoia its hard to keep up.
How they don't end up dead, especially with how violent the attorney is, amazed me.The favourite part of the book for me though was the illustrations, I loved examining them and they really add to the experience of the read.Hunter S.
Thompson is one of my favourite authors.
A lot of people write this off as some sort of nonsense drug rant.
Those are usually the same sort of people Thompson is describing in the book.
I think part of the reason this book is underrated these days is because it's style has been poorly copied to death.I saw the movie a long time ago as an adolescent.
Thompson calls this book an "epitaph to the 60's".
You're talking about a time when the president has declared war on drugs.
Thompson paints an un-romanticized portrait of American society in a place where it goes to be its vilest.
Thompson’s first book, Hell’s Angels, closes with a mesmerizing description of what it’s like to push a motorcycle to a speed where the rider can feel the machine begin to shake and unhinge as the tires spin so fast they can no longer grip the road.
In Fear and Loathing, Thompson uses Las Vegas as the setting where he will examine whether its possibly important that he’s never returned from that brink.
This novel has one of the better opening lines, 'We were somewhere around Barstow on the edge of the desert when the drugs began to take hold.'For more info, check out:Hunter S.
Thompson on wikipediaRalph SteadmanThe Kentucky Derby is Decadent and Depraved story5/8 - f&L in LV - 8a wild and hysterical drug-adled?filled romp in LVhilarious insanity and paranoia of a drug binge depicted clearlyhysterically outrageous and bizarreoff the wall situations and responses - pure lunacy, but of the fun varietymy trip to vegas wasn't quite this crazy.awesome opening 'We were somewhere around Barstow on the edge of the desert when the drugs began to take hold.' p.
This stands in a rather stark contrast to the last book that I read. Overall, it was a lighthearted, often postponed, long overdue foray into the writings of HST. His writing is enjoyable at some points, nearly nonsensical at others, but he captures the time period well. I'm interested to read his other works.
the movie follows the novel pretty damn closely, so i wish i had had the opportunity to read this before seeing the movie a million times. still mad and enjoyable! makes me want to take a crazy, drug-fueled adventure.4 stars, but i already loved it before i read it so i am biased.
Seriously? I got stuck reading this Kerouac ripoff freshman year of college. I'm not sure why I was supposed to care about this bonehead and his never-ending quest to get high. And yeah I know those beat books all involve drug use, but it was never the focus. Waste of time.
Man, do I love reading books about people fucked out of their skull on drugs. Especially if the book is as funny as this one. Unfortunately, "out of one's mind on drugs" and "funny" do not always coincide in literature.
The author arrives in Las Vegas in a red convertible, riding along with his lawyer, to cover a three-day car race in the desert.
In fact, I'm not sure of a lot of things, like is the lawyer really even there?Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas is followed by two short stories.
The Kentucky is Decadent and Depraved leaves me wondering, also, if Ralph Steadman is a real person and was he actually with Thompson at the Derby, or was he another delusion similar to the Samoan lawyer in Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas?Easy to read; impossible to follow.
This book was initially published as a two-part serial in Rolling Stone in 1971 -- Watergate had yet to happen, the Beatles had just disbanded, John Lennon was still alive, and the drug culture of the hippie era was moving away from psychedelic drugs.
Reading Duke's comments on Nixon and the disintegration of the Sixties and the ideals that era represented, highlighted with underlying tones of disgusted disillusionment, are highly reminiscent of the way many people feel now about the election of Trump, immediately after Barack Obama's two-terms as president.
Only his world is a scary horrible place that would have me locking the car doors and mentally putting strange strangers on a prayer list.I think this is because I am not Hunter S.
(It’s a 180 xp) The strongest thing I partake of is mulled apple cider cocktail and that is if I am just extra sore and worn out.I think of these stories, I “liked” Strange Rumblings in Aztlan.
Ralph Steadman has a very odd viewpoint of the world.Here is a recipe for Mulled Cider Cocktail because Hunter S.
Drug use.
More drugs.
On the surface this work appears to be a string of anecdotes for two guys, gorked out of their minds on drugs in Sin City in the early seventies.
Understandable, but really, isn’t that the point?
That there is no point.
I found myself amused at some of the themes, and embarrassed at myself for being amused at such depravity.The best part of this work if what Thompson does not tell us.
For example he notes when returning the car that the dials and interior were ruined when he tried a water test at Lake Mead.

This book doesn't even deserve one star. This book was awful and it really felt like there was no point to this book. Just a couple of really stupid guys who have nothing better to do with their lives than get really messed up from drugs. This was definitely a book that I pushed through quickly just so that I could be done with it. Definitely not my typical cup of tea and I wouldn't recommend this to anyone!
Hysterical
very easy read. very trippy. No real hard core plot.
http://www.tomfury.se/wordpress/2010/...
.History is hard to know, because of all the hired bullshit, but even without being sure of “history” it seems entirely reasonable to think that every now and then the energy of a whole generation comes to a head in a long fine flash, for reasons that nobody really understands at the time—and which never explain, in retrospect, what actually happened.My central memory of that time seems to hang on one or five or maybe forty nights—or very early mornings—when I left the Fillmore half-crazy and, instead of going home, aimed the big 650 Lightning across the Bay Bridge at a hundred miles an hour wearing L.
I don't think I could stand watching a whole 60+ minutes of this craziness because it probably would have made just as much sense as the writing, which, in a drug-induced insanity, could be called making sense.
I watched interviews with Johnny Depp as he talked about Hunter S.
Thompson and then watched interviews of Hunter S.
and then to actually get paid for writing this kind of manic gibberish seems genuinely weird; like getting paid for kicking Agnew in the balls." pg.
This was hands down the worst book I have ever read.
My mind boggles when I think that this is 1) a classic book 2) the writer has made a living off of this verbal diarrhea 3) this story was made into a movie starring Johnny Depp???????????
I really fail to see who could possibly enjoy reading 200 plus pages about two bad people on a drug binge doing a whole lot of nothing in one of the coolest places on earth.
I have never read the word “vomit” so much in a book.
I will seriously never read anything written by this author ever again.
After I finished it I read the original jacket copy for Fear and Loathing written by Thompson.
This piece had the same level of talent behind it, but also was written by a person who was actually believable as a successful career journalist with a Ph.D. Two other pieces are included in the collection, one was Strange Rumblings in Aztlan, and the other was the Kentucky Derby is Decadent and Depraved.
It is also powerfully researched and detailed, and incredibly convincing.The Kentucky Derby is Decadent and Depraved was also impressive.
There seems to be no real point besides portraying two semi-depressed, drugged out, lying crazys in the already twisted city of Las Vegas and how they systematically destroy their health with a wide assortment of illegal substances and cheat death repeatedly.
This book is in itself a psychedelic twisted journey through the drug crazed head of one of America's most famous journalists Hunter S.
Thompson is trying to make a point about the American dream and how messed up American society really is.
Mr. Thompson is a man of great vision and truth and is the ultimate satirist of the world and himself.He takes the logical premises of many in society around him and follows them to their absurd conclusion while doing it under the influence of a cocktail of high powered narcotics.
He delves into the morality of drug usage, he delves into the efficacy of the Vietnam War and repeatedly questions the humanity of Richard Nixon's Rolling Thunder campaign in Cambodia.
Finally he poses questions about drugs which society still grapples with today.
“Old elephants limp off to the hills to die; old Americans go out to the highway and drive themselves to death with huge cars.”As your attorney, I advise you to read this novel.As hophead diaries go, those who have been exposed to William S.
Burroughs will find the surprisingly lucid, semi-autobiographical escapades of Gonzo journalist Thompson and his raving shyster sidekick somewhat toothless, but also infinitely more accessible.
Anyone who’s ever been in at least tentative contact with mind-expanding substances will find the visceral descriptions of single-minded obsession (“we have to get out of here, we have to buy golf shoes, we have to eat a bucketload of grapefruit”) embarrassingly familiar.
After an injection of cash from the money man and a few too many illicitly ingested narcotics he finds himself in a world of strange hallucinations, and even stranger circumstances all fueled by his love for drugs, and the freedom of the open road.I love this story of a drug addled journalist experiencing a thrilling time in Las Vegas as he fights through drug addiction, money problems, death threats, the looming long-arm-of-the law, and the unusual characters populating a seedy mid-century Las Vegas.The prose is fantastic at pulling readers in.
Thompson as the anarchist, law-enforcement-loathing, binge-partying reporter shines as an unlikely hero in a story about how the things that may destroy us, may also make us free.This book was certainly a Goodread!
Buy this edition, as it contains an essay Thompson wrote about attending the Kentucky Derby that is absolutely brilliant (and also hilarious).
The sort-of autobiographical account of Thompson's trip to Vegas with his fat-assed lawyer, ostensibly to cover a motorcycle race, but quickly becomes an account of human depravity the likes of which has not been read in literature since the Marquis de Sade.
Luckily, Thompson isn't nearly the mindless hedonist many who have heard of him or even read this book consider him to be (sadly, he's used often in legitimizing ridiculous choices in life); look near the end of the story and you'll see that he viciously critiques what the world of drug-addled youth was, is, and will become.
If you've been to Las Vegas, you'll understand it probably would be the most terrifying place to be high on drugs.
In any case, I don't think you've done as many drugs as Hunter S.
Thompson/Raoul Duke reputedly does in Fear and Loathing in any locale.
It's a dysphoric period piece capturing the burnout from the 60's with Thompson's own weirdness melded in.It was only after I saw the movie (yeah, yeah, I know - highly recommended though) that I realized how comedic parts of F&L really are.
The Vegas piece was very entertaining.
The very finest "Gonzo" piece I've read by the man.
It would make any journalist, who was on the same side, think twice about what they were writing, and Thompson felt the same anxiety.
It was a very well written piece.
The Kentucky Derby piece was my favorite of all.
Thompson's description of what makes the "Derby" the "Derby" is very amusing, but also, all these years later, still holds correct.
It also helped me understand how the relationship between Thompson and Steadman came to be.
Overall a very nice read.
