https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1583390.The_Barrakee_Mystery
It isn't mean racism; it's seen as a way of life by both sides....but it is there and obvious to us today.
Despite that, Bony, the detective, has an aboriginal mother and a white father.
The characters in this book are solid, real and enjoyable.
They give a good idea of Australian back bush life in the 1920s.
I could picture the land and see the characters move through it.This book is very Australian and reading it is at first a bit confusing......many colloquial words throughout.
I would say that this is a cozy, historical mystery with solid, enjoyable characters & scenery.
I enjoyed this light, entertaining story.
This book is really very difficult to rate with a number, because it was written in another time, another place and I think in today's world, people would frown on the out and out blatant racism that runs through the pages of this book.
However, that being said, if you put this book in its proper perspective, and realize that it was first written in 1929, then the racism becomes part of the world at the time.
But hey -- I want to focus only on the story itself and that one was fair to middling, the first in a series introducing the half aboriginal/half white Napoleon Bonaparte, detective (who goes by the name of Bony).

This is the first of the "Bony" books featuring the half-aboriginal Australian detective, Napoleon Bonaparte.
I felt very sympathetic towards Upfield's clever-but-somewhat-arrogant detective.The problem is that this is a book written in a different time (the 1920s) in Australia, where the attitude towards race was very different.
There are other examples of this abhorrent attitude towards the indigenous people, but I don't want to spoil the story.Even so, as long as you can appreciate that you're seeing the story through the lens of that time period in Australia, you've got a really good book.
Australia in 1928 was a wild and dangerous place with islands of comfort (and hard work) called stations.
This is the first in a series of mysteries about that world, The Lure of the Bush, also called The Barrakee Mystery, Barakee being a fictional station near the Darling River in NW New South Wales.Detective Inspector Napoleon Bonaparte, "Bony," is part Aborigine or in the language of the day, a half-caste.
He is the finest tracker in the commonwealth and when a black man is killed at Barrakee he is brought in to solve the case.
A marvelous book.
Although the attitudes of the characters show how cheaply the lives of Aboriginal Australians were held, I don't believe that Upfield was himself an out and out racist but as an English immigrant I think it would have been very difficult not to be swept along by the attitudes prevailing at the time.
Indeed, he appears to me, to have a great admiration of and fascination for the Native population.
Bony is such a great invention and his character develops superbly in subsequent books.
I would imagine that some modern Australians find Upfield's books uncomfortable reading.
Even the mixed-race detective, “Bony”, is more interested in solving the puzzle than in justice.The whole book has the casual racism you’d expect in this type of novel from this era, but it goes off the rails at the end.
(view spoiler)[By the end we have a character in his 20’s who was raised as a white man, who doesn’t know he is mixed-race, whose change in behavior (such as an attraction to a black girl and a “growing love of colour in his clothes”) is entirely explained by a rapid reversion to his “ancestral blackness”.
Not as good as #4 in the series, Mr. Jelly's Business or Murder Down Under, which was the first Upfield I read, or rather listened to on Youtube - as with this one. The motive for the murder, around which the whole story pivots, I found a bit weak. Yet overall convincing, original in setting, authentic in tone. I'm hooked.
And there is a glimpse of Upfield’s attitude towards their treatment when Bony drops a comment about the genocide of one particular tribe describing it as “unhappily wiped out by you gentle white people”.On the other hand, most of the characters see no great crime in the murder of an Aboriginal man, and the segregation between white and black is taken for granted.
From a modern perspective, the racism in his books is shocking.
But perhaps at the time of writing what was shocking was that he showed any kind of deference to the Aboriginal people at all.As a quick note, The Barrakee Mystery does include several uses of the N word, which might offend some readers.
The beginning of something greatI love a good mystery and have read the best...and the worst.
Upfield ranks with the best, Agatha Christie, John Dickson Carr, Poe, Queen, Sayers, Marsh, and I could go on, but you get the idea.
So what do you get with a Bony mystery?
Careful plotting, realistic characterization, well-written English, Australian geography lessons, social commentary relevant to the 1930s to the 60s.
Upfield balances the brain and the heart.
Each mystery is complete in itself, yet each adds to knowledge of fascinating Australia and people and their motivations.If you've never met him before, now's the time to add Bony to your collection.
This was one wild ride of a book.
It is one part Western, one part romance, one part adventure, and there's some detecting thrown in to explain it all.
There is outright discrimination as well as stunned disbelief that the detective is going to search for the killer since the victim was black (a nobody).
I can't say whether or not this was exactly a "fair play" whodunit, because I was too fascinated with the story to search for clues, however there was only one slight surprise for me in the final revelations.
This was a very interesting read about a half-Aboriginal, half-Caucasian detective solving a murder out on a property in western New South Wales. Given the time in which this was written, I found the general attitude toward the Aboriginal people surprisingly sensitive, although there were some disappointing aspects and ways of describing things as well. But overall I enjoyed it, and will continue with this series. 3.5✭
Bony, a blue-eyed, dark-skinned, black-haired, university educated, half-caste aborigine, is an outstanding detective in the Sherlock Holmes mold who has never failed to solve a case and is the greatest tracker in Australia (if you don't believe it, just ask him--humble, in regards to his talents, he isn't).
He has captured rural life in 1920s Australia from the perils of flooding season to the politics of land control, including feelings towards absentee landowners who control thousands of acres.
The real story, and what haunted me throughout the story, was the place of Aborigines and, even more disturbing, those of mixed race people.
But love is love, in this case a mother's love, and it doesn't see race; even though she feels she has done wrong by raising the mixed race child as her own.
The series protagonist detective "Bony" is half-aboriginal, which made him quite unique in his time.The wealthy Thornton family owns and runs a sheep station in bush country.
The overseer truly loves and cherishes her, and dreams of a future together on their own station, but since he is a mere employee, with no wealth or property of his own, he keeps his feelings buried.When an aboriginal is killed on their vast holdings, it does not concern the whites much.
The best part of the book is the detailed description of the wild landscape and its powerful storms.The view of life on 1920s sheep stations is interesting, with exciting action scenes, yet the drama of the mystery depends upon racism.
I picked this up because I had read a couple of other Bony books a number of years ago and remembered enjoying them.
There are a number of sub-plots and action scenes that, in my opinion, bloat the story and detract from it's momentum.
It is difficult to tell if the the author subscribes to the racist views he chronicles or is merely reporting them; but then Bony, who is arguably the most moral, the most sophisticated, and the most intelligent character in the book, is of mixed race, which would tend to suggest that the book is not racist.
However, overall, the book sustained my interest and I will definitely pick up another Bony book at some point.
"Bony" is a half-caste Aborigine with blue eyes, with "the degree of an A." (whatever that may be) from Brisbane University.
Anything good about Bony is a product of his white blood, but he is "like a child".
According to Bony, miscegenation is a cardinal sin.
He says that dingos don't mate with rabbits, so his parents were lower than animals for going with someone who wasn't "their own kind." Blood will tell, according to the sleuth.
And according to the author, the white population of Australia living in the outback was composed of "99% natural gentlemen" in 1926.
The story is exciting; the characters are interesting; the racism pummels you in the gut.
The mystery is a good one, developed slowly and with increasing tension.
Once I got into the story, however, I had trouble putting the book down.
Upfield is a good mystery developer.
Their prominence in this mystery is part of the story, and one we cannot ignore in its reading.
I don't know what Upfield's actual views were, but I know the book resulted in a lot of reflection on my part.
And that makes it a good read.
Australian Poirot this is not - not even close. Aside from the fact that there's enough racism in this to make Twain seem like a modern-day liberal, the style of writing is grade-school level, non-Aussies need a dictionary to translate all the colloquialisms (which will probably just ramp up that racism scale, so maybe not...), and the so-called mystery is peripheral at best.
I enjoyed listening to the first Napoleon Bonaparte mystery. I’m surprised I hadn’t already as I’ve read most of them more than once! This one has some great scenes that keep you on the edge of your seat and characters who will make you laugh. Bony is his usual charming self and there are plenty of little story lines happening to suit everyone.
The first of the Boney books, published 1928, ninety years ago. Confronting in its portrayal of white society's beliefs and attitudes towards indigenous people. I have just returned from a trip into the country depicted in the novel and I feel homesick for it again.
First book in the famous Bony series about the indigenous detective seems more about creating a world view of the times and the people than a specific crime and solve crime type book. Bony seems to wander in and out and there is a lot of meandering around. A decent read, but not an easy read.
The description of the flooding which came after some heavy rain is quite marvelous and the detailed experience of fighting through the spiny branches and hard roots of trees torn up by the advancing water is gripping, but the story didn't require as long a piece as that.I find it impossible to be comfortable with the expressed opinion of most of the characters that aboriginal people are "wild" and will always return to the wild, that people who are of mixed blood will always revert to the "lower" side of their heredity, that they can never attain the levels of "civilized" people, no matter how much love, education, or training they're given.
I was struck also by how the novel reflected Australia's bush heritage.Born in England in 1890, Upfield moved to Australia in 1911 and fought with the Australian military during the First World War. Following his war service, he travelled extensively throughout Australia, obtaining a knowledge of Australian Aboriginal culture that he would later use in his written works.
In later novels Upfield wasn't as expansive in his descriptions of the country, and focussed more on detective/crime elements, but there are a lot of mini-stories in THE BARRAKEE MYSTERY.
It was published in the US under the title, "The Barrakee Mystery," which is what I have on my e-book reader.Even recognizing that Americans and Australians in that era were a lot more racist than today, the book is difficult to read.
I found the conclusion unsatisfying and the book overall disturbing.The writing is uneven, with some fairly appealing descriptive prose that evokes the Australian outback and some thrilling action sequences, including a horseback chase.Nonetheless, this is a deeply flawed work.
I read most or all of the Bony mysteries in paper form some years ago, and I'm now retracing my steps out of curiosity.
A wonderful old mystery (1929) that is marred, alas, by a streak of racism that now seems ludicrously stupid.
The descriptions of the sheep farmer's lives are wonderful, ditto the Australian landscapes.
I suppose the nearest American equivalent would be a Zane Grey novel like Riders of the Purple Sage, where the men are Manly with a capital M and the women - well, the women don't have much fun in this kind of book.
Cooking, mending, birthing babies, then back to cooking.
I hear there's an old TV series of this - would love to see it.
Somewhat Zane Grey in Australia's Outback.
Perhaps the story is good but the racism is dreadful.
This author wrote in the 1920s or so.
Apparently he was an inspiration for one of my favourite authors, Tony Hillerman.
I rather think Arthur Upfield was trying to be benevolent and even writing in a manner that suggested more tolerance toward the Australian aboriginal people.
However, the underlying malice of the English-speaking Whites toward the country's original inhabitants and animals in general, was loud and clear.
An ugly, disgusting novel; I could not get beyond the white arrogance and exceptionalism, much less the cruely.
End of my attempts to read this author.
Writing for an Anglo-Australian audience at a time when racism was deeply embedded in society, Upfield had to tread carefully in a tale of a crime perpetrated against aborigines in the outback.A local aboriginal man, just returned after a twenty year absence, is found dead on the banks of the Darling near Barrakee Station.
The local police are unenthusiastic about the case, but Sydney borrows a half-aboriginal inspector from Queensland to solve the mystery.
Working undercover, "Bony" rapidly identifies the prime suspect, but that is not enough - he wants to know why.
And that means delving into some dark secrets from the past.
Most of the books in this series are set in or near towns or stations in the Australian bush.
The books offer a wonderful sense of place and culture of the time, good mysteries to solve, and a half-aboriginal, half-white police detective called Napoleon Bonaparte, a character in the Sherlock Holmes mold.
A few of the Napoleon Bonaparte books are set in larger towns or cities, but I think the books set in the bush are the best.
Their settings are more evocative and the main character is at his best in the bush.
As a mystery it was very well done, nicely misleading, and full of clues, the detective is fascinating.
As a book it is very well written.
That said WARNING this is written from a white Australian point of view in the 1920s And as such is so humanly and politically incorrect, that it is scary.
Aboriginal Australians are not a subspecies nor are they disposable.
If you can read this with a historians detachment to these things (yes your heart will be screaming no that is wrong) it is worth pursuing.
That these attitudes existed at all, let alone not so long ago is very frightening.
