https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29036.The_Great_Influenza
I am really surprised at the number of positive reviews this book got, both professional and consumer.
I am currently a little more than halfway through and feel the need to write something in case I don't finish it and lose the desire.Before critiquing Barry and his writing style, or lack thereof, his editor, Wendy Wolf deserves special mention.
and this guy got published!" DO NOT READ THIS BOOK.
I hope you read this, Barry, and send me an apology.I've never written a review this bitter.
Barry’s The Great Influenza, about the so-called Spanish flu of 1918 that killed as many as 100 million people.
It combines accessible science/medical writing, perceptive character sketches, and telling human anecdotes to corral a story – a global pandemic – that doesn’t necessarily lend itself to the written word.
In Barry’s words, the 1918 influenza pandemic “was the first great collision between nature and modern science.” To that end, he begins the book with a brisk, wide-ranging, and fascinating history of medicine, gradually narrowing his focus to the state of American medicine at the turn of the century.
He also wanted to write the book from the perspective of the scientists and politicians who reacted to the influenza outbreak; he seemed more interested in covering their actions than the virus itself.These assumptions are incorrect.
If Barry had simply explained how the virus worked, how it may have come into being, and then followed each wave of the epidemic in chronological order, this book would have been much more enjoyable and much shorter.
This material is entirely relevant, and I actually might have liked for him to focus more on it.The last portion of the book covers the scientific community's attempts to control the virus.
But the book on scientific medicine really needs to be edited out of the book about the flu plague, because the interaction of the two stories is bizarrely very small - when the plague comes, the scientists and researchers he has spent so much time describing have very little, almost no, impact on the progression of the disease itself.
The most interesting part of the book was a chapter on the psychological damage the virus wrought on some people, and trying to link Woodrow Wilson's actions during the Paris peace conference of 1919 with changes brought on by a bought of the flu in April of that year.
I thought this would be a history of the misnamed Spanish flu of 1918 (it originated in the US, but since Spain was one of the few countries not at war and not censoring information, it took that country’s name).
This book included information about the epidemic, but also extensive details about the founding of Johns Hopkins and the Rockefeller Institute and the men (and at least one woman) involved in those organizations.
I thought the parts about the epidemic were interesting, but I found the writing style repetitive and long-winded.
Why did so many young people die, when usually it’s infants and the elderly?I was hoping this book would answer those questions, and in part, it did.
For this reason, the book only gets 4 stars.When we do get to the history of the pandemic, the statistics just get mind-boggling: as many as 8 to 10 percent of all young adults alive at the time succumbed to the flu.
Even after reading this book, I can’t wrap my head around how awful the Great Influenza was, and can only worry about our preparedness for the next time the virus mutates into an unrecognizable form.
About halfway through the book we get to some direct text on the pandemic itself but the author is more interested in the state of medicine in general.
The story of the book carries on well past the epidemic but not primarily about the effects of the pandemic itself but the effect on medical science and the doctors who were involved in research.So it was fairly interesting and it tells the story that it tells very well.
I would like however to find a book more concerned about the pandemic itself.
Many reviews are on target, the book just doesn't meet expectations for what should be a powerful tale.
His description of Woodrow Wilson's administration and the Progressive hell that enveloped the US leading up to and during WWI was absolutely chilling and precise.
The Espionage Act, the American Protective League, the associated American Vigilance Patrol, the Four-minute men, the Committee on Public Information… I don’t know if Barry intended to paint such a chilling picture of the rise of propaganda, censorship and government force but he does an excellent job.Just 2 Stars for me.
Like a poorly crafted pop song, this book is full of occasional flashes of intelligence and brilliance, but is brought down to the level of the two star by it's repetitive nature and bogged down by details.
It's honestly like that Debbie Gibson song "Shake Your Love." Well, John M.
Barry, you're not shaking my love anymore.He does Shake My Love during the best parts of the book: the graphic details of the disease itself.
But when it comes to relaying the nature of it's affects on various cities and people, it certainly unshakes my love.
Started reading a book purportedly about the Spanish Flu, but so far is actually about the history of medical practice in the United States. Also if he calls Johns Hopkins University "The Hopkins" a few more times I'm going to smack him. Or his book, which will be closer to me. (I'm having flashbacks to Sean Wilentz and his freaking "The Democracy.")ETA: 40% in and we're finally starting to deal with the flu epidemic. That's a long set-up section!
Although the Great Influenza of 1919 was a pandemic, the author focuses exclusively on its history in the United States.
A significant share of the book focuses on the history of medicine in the United States prior to the Great Influenza, providing biographical information on medical researchers both who would play a role in trying to find an effective treatment for the disease as well as many who did not.
At least for this reader, it would have been more interesting if the author had focused more on the social, cultural, and political ramifications of this pandemic in the US and elsewhere and less on pus and other secretions.
I think I expected a social history (how everyday people dealt with the flu, how it affected communities, etc.), and instead it's a very detailed history of medicine at the time (and well, well before the time of the flu!).
I think I made it through a good 1/4 to 1/3 of the book (or more) before the Spanish flu began to get mentioned.
While interesting in its own right, it's not what I expected.
In addition, the book seems to jump around weirdly, so it's a little hard to keep track of things.
Barry apparently felt like he was writing the tome to end all tomes about this chapter in world history – including the hideous phrase, "It was influenza, just influenza" over and over and over again – in the end, what he created was a terrific 200-page story of the world's deadliest pandemic wrapped in 250 pages of overwritten irrelevance.Barry spent seven years working on this book, and it shows.
This latter is a five-star book – tightly written, cogent, fascinating and novel-like in its intensity while still lucidly explaining the mechanism of influenza infection and the immune system's response – but the rest should have been excised.In addition to the massive editing failure this book represents, Barry seems to understand on some level that his work is all head, no heart.
Medical terms are introduced and carefully explained as are the basic concepts of genetics.
You'll find out.I happened across an article in a current newspaper dealing with the attempt to find a vaccine that would be effective against all viruses and to my surprise I found I understood all of the terms because I had read this book.Written with an intensity and urgency that will keep your attention, The Great Influenza deserves a read.
And while he clearly shows how many of the people in the book react at these different phases I didn't really feel like I got to know any of them with the kind of detail that Johnson pulled out of John Snow.3.
If you like science and enjoy history I think this would be a very satisfying reading experience.As an aside, I gave this book to my Grandmother for Christmas in 2009 when she was 91 years old.
I thought this was going to read like a thriller by Michael Crichton or Dan Brown following a plucky single doctor who fights hard for his patients, makes a breakthrough, and saves the day.
Hell, even today hardened cops don't like attending autopsies.The second reason is a little trickier to understand - medicine is not logical like the other sciences.
Things changed quickly when they changed and you'll have to read the book to find out.
This was the first book I read in 2016 and here I sit on the last evening of the year trying to finish this review.
This is a very frightening book.
We usually consider the flu to be a non life threatening disease.
The disease killed millions in a worldwide pandemic.
The actual number of fatalities can never be known because medical systems were so overwhelmed that many people were dying at home without ever seeing a medical professional.
The grisly details of how ordinary people suffered are in this comprehensive book.
The pandemic seemed to be a perfect storm.
He made a fateful decision to send ailing troops to Europe, disregarding the advice of military health experts, exponentially expanding the disease to Europe.
Can a pandemic of this scope occur again?
This book deals with the deadliest outbreak of virulent influenza so far which, at the time, was often thought to be a form of plague (because of extreme cyanosis).
As such, there is biographical information on many pioneers that few today know of (but should).Of course the book also covers the actual influenza pandemic; charting its origins and progress across the US and the world.
I’m hiding them as spoilers just in case you follow my exhortation to read this for yourself,(view spoiler)[One, that Fort Devens in Massachusetts (now closed and re-developed) was one of the earlier outbreaks (although not the earliest).
He explains how an endemic virus can lead to an epidemic of unimagined proportions.Barry also shows how the demands of World War I on troop movements, the propaganda campaigns to keep morale high, and the failure of leaders to listen to the doctors and researchers led to a killing field of historic size.
Barry has written a book that everyone should read, whether you are familiar with the epidemic or not.
I had a hard time separating my irritation with his reading from my general impatience with the book, which is probably the reason I gave this three stars rather than two -- I'm not entirely sure whose fault it was that I didn't find this as interesting as I'd expected.
(Plus, as Forster noted, one DOES tend to overpraise a long book that one finally manages to finish.) If I'd been reading this book rather than listening to it, undoubtedly I would have been able to skim pretty efficiently, slowing down for the parts that interested me the most and just skipping over the repetitive bits.
"In view of the comparatively short time during which most of the student-soldiers will remain in college and the exacting military duties awaiting them, academic instruction must necessarily be modified along the lines of direct military value."I appreciated the great detail used in explaining the scientific rigor in trying to understand the disease that was plaguing the country and world.
But how does one know when to persist, when to continue to try to make an experiment work, when to make adjustments - and when finally to abandon a line of thought as mistaken or incapable of solution with present techniques?How does one know when to do either?"With headlines starting to appear again about the danger from the Swine Flu which we might face in the fall, this book should be widely read and attention paid.
You get a history of medicine, a science lesson in the biology of viruses, a review of the socio-political factors that led the US to enter WWI, and then you get a close-up, detailed look at the influenza pandemic of 1918-1919 and the search for a cure.
Then you get a look at the effect the pandemic had on the course of medicine and virology.
Occasionally Mr. Barry indulges in literary flourishes that can distract from the story rather than add to it, but that's a minor flaw in an otherwise excellent book.
Very educational and interesting. Compelling
The Great Influenza is a heck of a read: there’s a lot of information, and it takes quite a while to get to the actual point of the epidemic, because first it covers certain aspects of medical history.
If you’re blasé about the potential of a flu pandemic like H1N1, I recommend this to change your mind.There’s a lot of gory detail here about how the 1918 flu killed, alongside the more sterile descriptions of lab experiments and the dry series of events, and the nitty-gritty of how the influenza virus invades a host cell.
In the U.S., nearly seven times as many people died of this virus as died in World War I.John Barry, an award-winning historian who has received prizes for both his Rising Tide: the great Mississippi flood of 1927 and how it changed America, and The Great Influenza, weaves multiple strands of narrative together as he details how the epidemic spread and how doctors and researchers joined together to fight this global health crisis at the end of WWI.

Begins brilliantly with a concise and breezy history of infectious disease study. Continues as a very readable tale of the influenza epidemic, but eventually gets a bit bogged down in many minute details that I would just have well skipped (it’s a long book). However, overall a very important and significant account of how modern mankind dealt with a serious infectious agent, with grave implications for today’s world.
100 years ago this year and scary as heck!
Bit slow, and could use a good editor. A merely adequate history of one of the greatest epidemics in history.
Here, however, is what the author gives us: the  Winchester Mystery House of books.* It is chock-full of topics at every scale, some, but by no means all, of which are:•	The history of Western medical science and its transformation from being driven by un-probed, unifying theories (think, treatments based on bodily humors), to figuring out what’s going on using evidence and experimentation.•	The early history of Johns Hopkins•	The histories of many particular medical researchers, only a subset of whom participated in influenza research•	Role of propaganda in WWI, with specific reference to influenza reporting•	Where this swarm of influenza viruses came from, how they spread, why they were so deadly•	Accounts of the 1918 pandemic, focused on a handful of cities in the eastern USHis topics are all intriguing, and about 95% of what he includes is legitimately related to his project.
