https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311132.A_Civil_Contract
Jenny, who is an old school friend of Julia’s, marries Adam knowing that he continues to love Julia.
And this is why there’s an undertone of sadness in the final paragraphs of the novel, as Jenny, while assured of Adam’s love for her, is nevertheless conscious that she had had an “impractical dream” of inspiring in Adam the “passionate adoration” that he had felt for Julia.
Of all Adam's shortcomings the worst is probably that he doesn't realise that Jenny actually loves him, and is not just sensible and kind.The parallels to Austen added a lot to my enjoyment of this novel.
who doesn't want him to ever forget that he REALLY loves her.A Civil Contract was the April 2016 monthly read for the Georgette Heyer group, and we've had some rousing discussions in the discussion threads about whether Adam made the best choice, whether Jenny was a terrible person for marrying the man her best friend Julia was in love with (but forbidden to marry), and whether this is even a good book.
(hide spoiler)]Julia and Jenny are, personality-wise, quite a bit like Elinor and Marianne in Jane Austen's Sense and Sensibility, and Heyer's characters mention that novel several times, just to make sure we don't miss the point.
Oh, sure, it's fun for the first 1,000 or so books, but after 1,001, this wish-fulfillment perfection becomes as stale and repulsive as your breath after a weekend bender.At least it does to me.ACC isn't for the HEA obsessed, but for those readers who like a little more realism added to their regency reading romps.
Perhaps a bit of age or general cynicism is also helpful in enjoying this book (both qualities I've got in spades).If you're thinking of reading Heyer for this first time, don't pick up A Civil Contract, as it really doesn't fit her general mold.
Specifically, it’s about the people who are involved in this marriage of convenience: the mercenary groom, the social climbing father-in-law, and the plain bride.”EXEC: “You mean they marry just for the money?”SW: “The hero --- Adam Lynton --- has to marry the heroine, Jenny, because otherwise he would go bankrupt.
Enters Mr. Chawleigh, a filthy rich, self-made man from humble backgrounds, who desperately wants to marry his daughter to the ‘nobs’.”EXEC: “So this Adam guy --- he just ran with it?”SW: “Uh, no.
And she dresses funny.”EXEC: (grumbles) “How’s that gonna sell the movie?”SW: “But she’s a sensible girl, and pretty shrewd too.
But does romantic love last anyway or does it change to comfortable companionship?GH explores this theme with (as usual for her) a rich cast of colourful characters & she deftly weaves some real life history into the plot.
Rather than lose the estate (Fontley)Adam gives up the girl he loves & marries Jenny - daughter of a Cit. While Jenny always loved Adam, Adam (view spoiler)[comes to love Jenny and appreciates he is better with a practical wife who will create a comfortable home, than Julia who is in modern terms, a bit of a drama queen!
His business manager is relieved to note that Adam doesn't seem to have many illusions about winning back the family fortunes on the turn of a card, but isn't thrilled to see the family seat go out of the family, and suggests that Adam look about for an heiress to marry.Adam, on the other hand, is deeply infatuated with the sylph-like Julia Oversley, this year's most popular and sought after debutante.
He realizes that he can't marry Julia, given that once Fontley is sold he will quite literally not even have a pot to pee in, but in the interests of love, he is going to sacrifice himself on the altar of bachelorhood.And then he meets Jonathan Chawleigh, a wealthy Cit whose made his fortune in trade.
(view spoiler)[ (hide spoiler)]I've read quite a few of Heyer's novels and this one struck me as particularly interesting. Heyer is a legend among romance readers--her characters have depth, the events make sense, and while these are books with more talk than action, that talk is lively and always well written. Heyer's novels fall into a few categories: silly, young heroine marries worldly hero and the two agree to a "French" marriage, only to discover they are in love; older, independent, soph
Heyer's novels fall into a few categories: silly, young heroine marries worldly hero and the two agree to a "French" marriage, only to discover they are in love; older, independent, sophisticated woman finally meets a man that's up to scratch and is persuaded to marry; independent, free-spirited mature lady (i.e., in her twenties) wreaks havoc among society before finally being convinced to settle down; older woman resists a convenient marriage to an even older eligible bachelor, only to find that said bachelor is in fact in love with her.
An old-fashioned story with a new-fashioned problem, a Victorian era viscount needs money to keep his estate going so he marries the daughter of a merchant, instead of his fiance. The new bride knows exactly why she was chosen instead of the beauty.
I realize Ms. Heyer was trying to convey the realities of an arranged marriage but I read romance novels for the happy ever after and the ending of this novel was anything but.My heart breaks for Jenny who is faced with the prospect of a continuing marriage with more love on her side than on his.
The writing itself is very good, but every time I read this novel I always wish Ms. Heyer had put in some illuminating moment for Adam to realize what a great treasure he found in Jenny and would have him tell her how much he adored her.
Personally, I think it is one of her best and delves deep into the unromantic side of romance, unrequited love, secret love, friendship, class differences, and marriages of convenience all in one.The characters are still colorful and sparkling.
It's more akin to her historicals like The Spanish Bride or An Infamous Army of which its a contemporary story set during the end of the Napoleonic Wars.Heyer really put in the time with how a marriage of convenience, particularly with partners from a different class, would work out for them and their families.
I became a huge Heyer fan in my romantic teens, and I have to say, her books never pall; if anything I enjoy them even more now that I am wallowing in my middle years.
I remember being disappointed when I read this book first: it's about Adam, whose profligate father dies, leaving him penniless and unable to marry the beautiful and romantic Julia.
Julia's father, sympathetic to Adam's dire financial straits, puts him in the way of marrying Jenny Chawleigh, the plain, practical daughter of a blunt, ill-bred (but rather endearing)rich London merchant.
She's dumpy and shy but she lacks the sensibility necessary for a grand romance and promises to do her best to make Adam happy.This is Georgette Heyer's un-romance novel.
There is some great commentary here and some lovely passages describing the characters' relationship.The sense side of me really valued the novel for this interesting and realistic look at marriage but the sensibility side prefers the marriage plot romances.Adam is a complicated character.
Julia's parents are aware of her faults and her father knows that as much as he loves his daughter, she would never make a good wife for Adam.
I felt calm and pleased at the end.THE STORY:Adam’s father dies leaving huge debts.
The wedding is arranged and occurs.OPINION:I loved watching Jenny.
Her goal is to give Adam a comfortable life.
And at the end, Adam realizes what a treasure he has in her.This book is not romantic love.
Before Adam met Jenny, he and Julia had a romantic love - an infatuation.
Adam never felt that way for Jenny.
But at the end, Adam was comfortable, laughing, and happy in his life with Jenny.A few times my mind wandered.
This is a book that is hard to love as an impressionable adolescent but is highly valued by more mature fans of GH and gains appeal with every reread.
Ultimately, she realizes she can make him comfortable and that he values her sincerely - but that is about as good as it's going to get.
The book is extremely well written with memorable characters, and really deserves a 4 1/2.
And one with whom we sympathise, even though I did feel that Julia’s flaws were somewhat overdone, in a sort of ‘well, if Julia’s too nice then Jenny isn’t going to come into her own at all’ sort of way.Really, A Civil Contract is about marriage, not about courting (like The Convenient Marriage, which has some similarities, though not in the characters); it’s about a quieter sort of love, not a grand passion.
This is one of the late books of Heyer and one can see this novel is thoughtful.Yes, it isn't a witty Regency romance.
I would not say it is a sad story but it isn't Cotillion nor Sprig Muslin (the fans of Heyer will know what I mean).This piece is something between a historical romance and a historical fiction.
I was a little bored once or twice, but only because I know it to well.Let me say it one more time: "A Civil Contract" has more historical facts than most of Heyer Regency romances.
Julia's father tells him to marry money, and sends to him a very wealthy lower class businessman who proposes that Lynton marry his daughter who is short, plump, and homely.
Backed into a financial corner, Lord Lynton marries Jenny Chawleigh.The rest of the story is about how Lynton deals with a vulgar father-in-law with ostentatious taste who is always giving him elaborate gifts he doesn't want and who eventually tries to tell him how to run his life.
Heyer uses the British army, the Napoleonic wars, and Waterloo to move the plot along and provide a delightful climax to Lynton's story.2012 No 41
A masterful job by Georgette Heyer that deserves to be liberated from the "Regency romance" ghetto and considered as serious fiction. It's not really even a romance, given that the main characters marry for money and nothing else. We watch them grow, however, into a sort of love based upon their strong commitment and sense of honor. Very touching, with a dose of humor delivered by the bride's impressively vulgar father.
The main relationship here isn't between the hero and heroine (Adam Deveril and his wife Jenny) but between the hero and his father-in-law: pushy milloinaire Jonathan Chawleigh.
And her talent for manipulating him into comfort and happiness looks almost machiavellian to the modern reader, although perfectly understandable in a woman living in the regency period, whose entire happiness depends on her husband's good will.I must say that I'm glad that Heyer never does sex scenes.
This is a Heyer romance for goodness sake!), but the stress laid on the practical, not romantic nature of their love is rather melancholy.
It's almost an anti-romance, where instead of falling deeply in love, our hero and heroine settle for good enough.
It's an interesting plot variation.We have a heroine who isn't a beauty, and whose many self-deprecating comments are not contradicted by her friends, who perhaps see no reason to deny an obvious lack of advantage.
There are moments of quiet humor, but it's not as funny as many of Heyer's books.This is very readable, but it isn't one of my favorites.
Particularly the hero's endearments come off as condescending since there's relatively little intimacy between them.
This was a weird book to read.
I knew going in that this was the "controversial" Heyer, where you either really like it or you don't, and I think I ended up somewhere in the middle.I liked Jenny.
But that's not completely what we got, because from the beginning, it's pretty clear that Jenny was at least a little in love with Adam, which set up a disparity that was REALLY uncomfortable to read at points.
I just with that Adam hadn't been stupid for so much of the book.
That would have made it easier to accept the ending for me.
Heyer's other masterpiece (I've already called An Infamous Army Heyer's masterpiece, but I hadn't re-read this one in several decades when I said that). Amazingly good characters, lots of interior dialogue and character development, lots of humour (and the Dowager character totally reminded me of my mother). Probably her most "realistic" book in that many of the scenes are not just from an imaginary Regency England fairyland.
I think I'd find this hurt my heart in the end. Beautiful, thoughtful review tagged from someone who felt differently.https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
The realness of some of the bursts of negative emotions experienced by the characters, the bile sometimes expressed, made me somewhat uncomfortable at times while reading this.
The glimpse into the life of a cit was intriguing.
Amusing as always in parts but the focus here was more about life being about settling and making the best of things.
Great for a first time let's finish the Heyer collection read, though never as a recommendation for someone who doesn't already know and love the author.
Not everything has to be contrived modern writer trope/ plot nonsense about "let's get to know each other better before consummating our arranged marriage".
Georgette Heyer wrote two types of romance novels.
We hear a lot in romances about couples who married for money but they tend to be couples on the periphery of the main action.
In this book, Heyer took the bold action of making a distinctly unromantic match the main story.
I remember when I was a college student, first discovering Heyer, this was one of my least favorite books.
Now, with much time behind me and a 33-year marriage, it is one of my favorites.
The way Heyer supplied so many small details that give you such a complete picture of what life must have been like in the Regency period in England.The romantic plot centres on a Viscount who reluctantly enters into a marriage of convenience with a wealthy commoner's daughter due to his father's death and substantial family debt he has inherited.For much of the novel Adam is in love with Julia, and Jenny his loving and long-suffering wife waits with patience and kindness.
Adam is a quiet man of the gentry who is constantly at odds with his father-in-law who is very wealthy and wants to shower Adam and his daughter with generous gifts, most unwanted.I couldn’t help comparing Georgette Heyer to Jane Austen.
Close to a five for sheer originality and daring.
Most romances end with the wedding or the proposal.
This marvelous historical novel starts with a death, moves on to one of the most awkward proposal scenes ever and follows a couple through the first year of a marriage of convenience.
The characters are wonderful--even the minor figures are vividly, and often amusingly drawn.
The social commentary is deft.
There is also a great historical sub-plot surrounding the Napoleonic wars, ending with the victory at Waterloo as seen from an anxious London perspective.
A Civil Contract lacks Heyer's trademark whimsy, but makes up for it in psychological insight.
And here Heyer adds the cruel twist that gives the book so much of its emotional depth - such a marriage, while it saves Adam and his estate, would destroy for ever his chance of marrying the love of his life, the beautiful, if highly-strung Julia Oversley.Through Julia’s father, Adam is introduced to the plain and shy Jenny Chawleigh, and even her name is dowdy (her given name is the much prettier Jane, but everyone calls her Jenny).
Such episodes are a sore trial of Adam’s good manners.All of this is delicious, and very funny, but the real heart of the book is the slowly developing relationship between Adam and Jenny, and the parallel choices of his cast-off love, the melodramatic Julia.
OMG I read this because the heroine's name was Jenny and I was all "but my name is Jenny!
Jenny's nouveau riche father organizes for her to marry this snooty noble whose heart belongs to another, and he spends most of the book being snooty to her while she does infinity emotional labor and, you know, ACTUAL LABOR to make his world super duper comfortable.
And at the end of the book he's like "actually it is pretty okay to have a wife who caters to my every need" and we're supposed to feel like this is a happy ending.
My ideal romance. Delightful.
