https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28194.Inkheart
Books have to be heavy because the whole world's inside them.   Magic, this book is pure unadulterated  magic. Meggie and Mo (her father) are a pair. They're two peas in a pod, they're a peanut butter and jelly sandwich, they're ice cream and sprinkles. No matter what - they are together.Mo works as a book binder/restorer and Meggie is a full-time reader - she ready every single moment she's not in school.When a mysterious man from Mo's past shows up on their doorstep, he packs up all of their
Books have to be heavy because the whole world's inside them.
Magic, this book is pure unadulterated 
No matter what - they are together.Mo works as a book binder/restorer and Meggie is a full-time reader - she ready every single moment she's not in school.When a mysterious man from Mo's past shows up on their doorstep, he packs up all of their things and whisks Maggie away to to her Aunt Elinor's house.And, despite all their efforts, evil is circling ever closer to their little family and Maggie is at a complete loss at what to do.
However, my local library is on the verge of opening a new wing with my overdue book fines on this, because I keep hanging onto it in the hope that eventually I will be able to finish reading it.I think it's just not going to happen.
It takes 150 pages for anything to begin to happen, and that's much too long, even for an adult book.
I blame J.K. Rowling for this kind of bloating.Finally, I'm extremely annoyed by people, whether real or fictional, who pat themselves on the back for loving books.
You're not a special kind of intellect for loving books and wordplay.
I really wanted to like this book.
It was one of those books that whenever my students saw me reading it they said, "Oh, I really liked that book!
In short (very short): Meggie's father repairs books.
He can read characters out of books.
Nine years ago he was reading aloud and read a terrible villian out of the book and simultaneously read Meggie's mother into the book.
The rest of the story is Meggie and her father trying to defeat the villian and maybe get her mother back.
it was a great idea for a book, it just wasn't particularly well excecuted.
It's a book about a book and lovers of books.
Now I don't feel like a COMPLETE goober for 1) smelling books 2) learning Elvish or 3) bringing at least 5 books with me everywhere I go.Note: just because I don't FEEL like a complete goober, does not mean I am not one."Inkheart" is the first in a trilogy.
"Inkspell" is already out, and "Inkdeath" will be out in 2008.You may not love "Inkheart" in and of itself; however, if you are a lover of books, I find you will at least appreciate the characters and the sentiments within the pages if not like the story as a whole.
Based on a 2007 online poll, the National Education Association named the book one of its "Teachers' Top 100 Books for Children." Meggie, a girl at the age of 12, sees a stranger staring at her outside her window and tells her father, Mortimer (or Mo, as Meggie calls him) about it.
The next morning, Mo unexpectedly announces that he and Meggie have to go to Meggie's Aunt Elinor's house where Mo has to fix some books.
They bring along their camper; eventually, they find Dustfinger on the road, who climbs onto the camper to journey with Meggie and Mo to Elinor's house.
Her house, like Mo and Meggie's, is full of books.
Honestly one of my favourite fantasy reads. I loved all the characters - even the villians! They were vivid, colourful, the world Cornelia Funke creates is absolutely extraordinary and if it were up to me I would live in the Inkworld for ever!For anyone that likes a good dose of escapism, a book about books, a story that will make you laugh, cry and just generally never want to finish then this is for you!5 stars!
And the quotes that begin each chapter are perfectly chosen.I kept wondering if there were areas that Funke could have taken out to make the book shorter – but I couldn’t really find anything that wouldn’t mar the story in some way, and I was grateful there were as many pages to read as there were!A wonderful read and an interesting story that I think has become a new favorite!
I now am not at all concerned with finishing it by the movie's release date!:D***I plan to begin this book today.
I've got so many others that I'm in the midst of reading right now, but the fact that I want to finish this before the movie comes out (eek!) I'd best hurry up and start it!!***Oh dear!!
Tolle fantasievolle Geschichte, die mir in jüngeren Jahren sicherlich besser gefallen hätte...Die Aufmachung war - genau wie bei Reckless - liebevoll und detailverliebt.
Ich fand die Idee mit den Zitaten aus berühmten Büchern zu Anfang jedes Kapitels klasse, genauso wie den Schreibstil.
Allerdings fand ich die Story an sich etwas lahm und es ist gefühlt auch nicht allzu viel passiert...
außerdem hatte ich das ein oder andere Problem mit der Logik, was ich aber nicht allzu schlimm fand.
Cornelia Funkes Schreibstil hat mir wieder gut gefallen, vor allem wie sie Bücher und Menschen beschreibt, sehr märchenhaft.
Ich denke ich werde dem nächsten Teil trotz allem noch eine Chance geben.
I love the fact that it is a book about books, and that is what initially made me want to read it.
The best part of the book is the last few chapters, by which point I didn't care - I just wanted the book to end so I could move onto something more enjoyable.I've given it 2 stars because the story is interesting, I just think that it could have been condensed into less pages.
I think this generally works on its own as a standalone novel, but the thought of reading another 500 pages doesn't fill me with joy.
Enjoyed it well enough. Interesting concept. Good execution. Struck me as a little grim for YA though. By which I mean it's not something I'd read to my boy. (He's fiveish.) I might consider something like this for him when he hits 10 or so.
The best fantasy novel, I'ver read.I was too much curious while reading that.I just loved it.The way writer moves the story.Specially,3 ratings for character making.Thanks Cornelia Funke.
1. Don't watch the movie. Please, don't watch it, the movie is nothing compared with the books!2. This series is a must-read for all book-lovers, if you ask me...A father who can awake characters from books just by reading and a daughter with equal abilities. A series about books and reading. A series that offeres exciting adventures, lots of reading, love and friendship, danger, amazing characters and sympathetic villians...What more does a true book-lover need?! Right...Nothing! This is one of the best series ever. Read it. And if you already did then re-read it once again! :)
Ah! A book about a magical book!!How delightful! Twelve year old Meggie lives in a small farmhouse with her father, Mo, as Meggie calls him, who repairs and restores books. Meggie doesn't think that 'bookbinder' describes the care and love her father takes when he's fixing books and prefers to say that he's a "book doctor." He has a plaque on the bookshop door that reads: Some books should be tastedsome devoured but only a few should be chewed and digested thoroughly. One dark and rainy night, a
Meggie doesn't think that 'bookbinder' describes the care and love her father takes when he's fixing books and prefers to say that he's a "book doctor." He has a plaque on the bookshop door that reads:
Mo has no choice but to tell Maggie the secret he's been hiding, why he's never read out loud to her, and about what really happened to her mother when Meggie was just three years old.
Mo was reading INKHART aloud to Meggie's mother when suddenly Capricorn appeared in their living room, along with a few of his men.
Now, Meggie and Elinor are beginning to understand why Capricorn won't let them go now that he has the book.
Okay, I'm at hundred pages, and I'm like: someone just kill that loser Capricorn, and then FedEx the rest of the gang home! PLEASE! I'll pay Preferred!It goes like this: go here, go there, go back here, go back there, return to here, and so on...Also, this story was kind of scary, which doesn't rate high in my book (pun intended).The idea was excellent, but poorly executed.
This is certainly for children and children who like fantasies and adventures and books and who are patient enough to read so many pages that sometimes you'd think you're just going in circles. The story is interesting enough to make me finish the first book but not enough to make me read its sequels.
As I said, I think I would've loved this book as a child, but reading it now as an adult made me a bit bored at this big escape that the characters are going on.
I think I would've been perfectly happy if Meggie and her father Mo could've just stayed at home with their books and each other, because while the beginning of the big adventure was interesting, it did drag on for a bit too long in my opinion.
BUT I still think that this is a magical story that will take you on quite a fictional adventure, and I'm happy that I got to know Meggie and Mo and their love for books.
A glorious tale for anyone who ever dreamed of being transported into the stories she reads, or of having friends from the tales brought into our world!On her website, author Cornelia Funke says,"I didn't suspect that this story would grow untill it could fill more than one book.
I have dreamed for a long time of writing a story in which characters from a book come into our world.
Which book addict doesn’t know the feeling that the characters in a book can seem more real than the people around us?
Στη αρχή όμως με εκνεύριζαν.Για παράδειγμα, πως γίνεται ο Αιγόκερως, ο οποίος στον κόσμο του "Μελανόκαρδου" ήταν μεγάλος κ τρανός, να κάνει τα πάντα να μην γυρίσει εκεί γιατί όπως λέει δεν υπήρχαν αρκετά κομφόρ, όπως το να ανάβεις εύκολα φωτιά, αλλά να μην φοβάται μην τυχόν βρεθεί στην έρημο όταν ο Μο διαβάζει τις "Χίλιες και μια νύχτες" ή στο ερημονήσι από το "Νησί των θησαυρών" και να λέει απλά «θα το διακινδυνεύσω»; (σελ 207)Τεσπά, μπορώ να πω ότι απόλαυσα ιδιαιτέρως την όμορφη αφήγηση του βιβλίου και την μαγική του αύρα.
My reading soul was battered and bruised, and a friend offered this book to me to help soothe the hurt.
You root for a happy ending and keep reading.
Each chapter starts with a quote from a beloved children's classic, so you get to visit old friends on the journey through the story.A few passages helped assure me how much the author really does love books and all they represent.
Only in books could you find pity, comfort, happiness--and love.
Books loved anyone who opened them, they gave you security and friendship and didn't ask anything in return; they never went away, never, not even when you treated them badly.
Someone else who loved books:..."
I have no idea why people like this book. Where is the character developement, the intrigue, the plot? It's like a lump. After I read it, I thought back and couldn't even remember the storyline - it was too jumpy and mumbled. Not a good work of fiction.
I can't say that I've ever read a book like this one before, and the idea of a power that allows people to bring fictional characters to life is something that I think most authors wish they possessed. I really liked this book, at first I wasn't expecting much from it but it turned out to be phenomenal.
As much as I hate to say it, but this book is really boring. I love children's books and read Harry Potter and His Dark Materials several times. Inkheart disappointed me. I never stop reading a book until I read at least 100 pages, to give an author a chance to develop a story. Unfortunately, I had to stop reading this book after page 150. It is extremely slowpaced and uneventful. It is surprising to know that kids actually have enough patience to finish and thoroughly enjoy this book. Maybe it's just not my cup of tea...
But Mo has never ever read aloud to his daughter, that she can remember, and in the pages of Inkheart Meggie discovers his reasons.“Some books should be tasted, some devoured, but only a few should be chewed and digested thoroughly.”This was a wonderful adventure, and is one that I’ve taken before and look forward to taking again.
They really do preserve memories better than anything else, be those memories flower petals pressed between pages or personal memories that reside right inside the cover.The fictional Inkheart novel inside of this book was also wonderful.
اوّل میخواستم چار بدم. ولی چار واقعاً در حالتیـه ک ایرادات خیلی ریز باشن. ریتم داستان کند بود. گاهی خیلی کند میشد و بعضاً کش میاومد. نثر نویسنده خیلی خوشترکیب بود. تمیز و شفّاف. :دی سوژهش بچّهگونه بود تا حدّی. همونجور ک از قبل هم میدونستم. ولی دلیل خوندنم اینه ک برام جالبه چ طور چنین سوژهای این همه بسط یافته ک سه جلد بالای ششصد صفحه شده. و خب، فرم داستانی ِ کار هم حرفهای بود؛ ینی همین مسئله خیلی کارو تأمّل برانگیز میکنه.پایانش ب تنهایی میشه پنج داد... واقعاً پایانش خوب بود. اصلاً مسیری ک فرعی خو
اوّل می‌خواستم چار بدم.
ولی چار واقعاً در حالتی‌ـه ک ایرادات خیلی ریز باشن.
ریتم داستان کند بود.
گاهی خیلی کند می‌شد و بعضاً کش می‌اومد.
نثر نویسنده خیلی خوش‌ترکیب بود.
:دی سوژه‌ش بچّه‌گونه بود تا حدّی.
و خب، فرم داستانی ِ کار هم حرفه‌ای بود؛ ینی همین مسئله خیلی کارو تأمّل برانگیز می‌کنه.پایانش ب تنهایی میشه پنج داد...
واقعاً پایانش خوب بود.
اصلاً مسیری ک فرعی خورد و تا پایان استمرار یافت، داستانـو نجات داد.
واقعاً نجات داد؛ چون غیر ازون، انگار توی ی باتلاق گیر کرده بود.
ترجمه‌ی خانم سلطانی هم خیلی خوب بود؛ آدم حس نمی‌کرد داره ترجمه می‌خونه.
Ah, what a great ending to a lovely book. It really is a shame I just left this sitting on my shelf for at least 3 years! :p
A book restorer who can pull characters from the pages by reading aloud?
I've liked Cornelia Funke's books in the past, particularly The Thief Lord, but as I read Inkheart, I noticed over and over again how hollow the story felt, and how much opportunity the author had to make a really amazing book with her great beginning idea.
It felt like, similar to her characters, she only has read a few books.
At first, characters can read objects and people out of the book, but they have their own will and don't follow what happened to them within the book.
Anche se non mi è affatto dispiaciuto, tutto sommato.Questo libro è molto bello.
Per contro, non ho apprezzato fino alla fine Maggie, che oscilla sempre tra capricci di bambina (qual è) e un coraggio da leone, Capricorno mi è sembrato una barzelletta messa lì, tanto per avere il cattivone di turno, infatti, durante la lettura risaltano di più i suoi scagnozzi che Capricorno stesso e, sinceramente, anche Farid mi è risultato alquanto sciapo (ma molto probabilmente, adesso, è il mio lato pignolo a parlare).
I liked the blend of modern day with fantasy in this story and having the magical element of being able to read characters out of their individual stories was brilliant.The storyline itself moves along nicely as Meggie and her father, Mo, go on an adventure both to escape danger and hopefully to find Meggie's mother, who was read into Inkheart mistakenly by Mo in the same instant that he, also accidentally, brought forth some very evil villains.The story itself is very compelling, but what really makes this book are the wonderful and interesting characters that are sprinkled throughout the novel.
One of my favourite fantasy / middle grade books as it is totally gripping from start to finish and very fun to read. I loved the creative story and the characters.
L'unica pecca e pregio (per quanto strano possa sembrare questo doppio giudizio) è che è molto lento; Da una parte è una pecca, perché sembra quasi che il libro non finisca mai, ma dall'altra invece è un enorme pregio perché quando si tratta di Cornelia Funke io non sono mai pronta ad abbandonare il suo mondo, i suoi personaggi e le sue storie quindi è un aspetto che apprezzo comunque tantissimo.
Nessuno è stato trascurato e ognuno ha avuto il suo spazio nel corso del libro, com'è giusto che sia.- Mi è piaciuto moltissimo il rapporto tra Mo e Meggie, padre e figlia, e dalle parole della Funke traspariva proprio l'amore e il bene che provano l'uno per l'altra.
