https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15777621-this-song-will-save-your-life
I didn't know how to not be weird, I didn't know what the right thing was to say, I didn't understand why it wasn't okay to put my hand up and tell the teacher I'd finished the work twenty minutes before the lesson ended.
Fucking grateful that someone actually thinks you're alright.The parallels I drew between this book and my life left me in awe.
But I think, looking back, this book was really special for me.
Looking at it as objectively as is humanly possible, I think this book managed to be a lot of things: emotional, sad, funny, honest and inspiring.
Okay, so I took pages of reading notes while devouring this novel but I don’t even know how to translate them into something coherent here because they’re pretty much nothing but my feelings.
And I’m sure you don’t want to read paragraphs of “First I was sad, then I was-” so just know that this book made me not only feel but it made me think.
Let me say this instead; at times my heart was broken for Elise and at others I wanted to throttle her but it’s okay because I was meant to feel these things and I enjoyed every damn emotion.
One of the books that was suggested several times to me was This Song Will Save Your Life.I was really skeptical at first about reading this because the first one of these recommended books I read I was let down by...
Elise's character development doesn't truly start toward close to the end of this story and I that would normally be a turn off for me, but it wasn't.
Books like This Song Will Save Your Life and The Truth About Alice are books that I wish were written and read when I was in school.
And isn't that- just you - enough?"This Song Will Save Your Life isn't the perfect book, but it has the perfect message.
When I first read those glowing 5-star reviews I was hooked. I couldn’t wait to get my hands on this book as soon as it came out. Such high expectations. Sadly this is not for me. How bizarre that I really couldn't connect to it and this story's main character. I don’t like this girl, really I think she is blasé, she is a flake and most of all I hate her for her attitude because she is oh so special.   “I was born to be unpopular”   So starts the story of Elise Dembowski, sweet sixteen but sadly
Just because I like to listen or dance to pop music once in a while you oh so special girl can call me stupid and brainless?
But our Elise is soooo special she is even better than DJ Char, the boy who she made out with during the last weeks, who showed her how to DJ and gave her an opportunity to perform as one in the first place.
Again our oh-so-special Elise is better than anybody else even her “mentor” DJ Char and the Underground Friday Party Night in an old warehouse will be promoted with her picture and her name online in the local newspaper.
So, fun fact: this is the first book I ever read with a character named Elise who wasn't an Archetypal Mean Girl. And oddly enough, this Elise is one of the most relatable characters I've ever read about. She's so much like me, like any of us who didn't grow up popular, that it's almost terrifying.  “Sometimes people think they know you. They know a few facts about you, and they piece you together in a way that makes sense to them. And if you don't know yourself very well, you might even believe
So, fun fact: this is the first book I ever read with a character named Elise who wasn't an Archetypal Mean Girl.
So, yes, Elise is the stereotypical high school unpopular girl, but it's explored in a way that feels so much more real than any other books I've read about the topic.
The author does such a good job conveying that feeling of wanting to escape and be someone else, someone above it all and on top of her life and far more personable, just to be her for a little while.
This Song Will Save Your Life is emotional and beautiful; a story that will bring out your happy-tears by its conclusion!Once in a while there are books where you get to fully and completely connect to the main character to such a degree that you experience it all as if it was your own story with your own emotions.
She has an artist's soul, giving all her passion to what she loves; not awarding great importance to frivolous things like fashion or gossip unsurprisingly makes her an outcast at school.
And with each of these moments you change and change again, your true self spinning, shifting positions-- but always at last it returns to you, like a dancer on the floor.
So many bright and wonderful ideas about life are scattered all over it that picking this book up is like finding a priceless treasure.
This is a truly inspiring book especially to teenagers and to anyone who is going through/gone through tough times especially in believing in oneself.
It's practically a self-help book in the guise of a really good YA fiction.Reading this book is definitely worth your valuable time.
Sixteen year old Elise wants one thing: to become popular and morph into anyone who doesn’t resemble herself.
I did love the musical element in this story and felt the in-depth focus on DJing was a unique and interesting touch.
Elise’s character was a pretty solid representation of a young girl struggling to gain her self-worth.
In sum, a quick read with a strong message of self-love and acceptance—and of course…the healing powers of music.
Not really a love story.▪  Characters: Well fleshed out.
▪  Plot: Coming of age plot about finding self-worth.▪ Writing: Polished and intriguing.▪ POV: 1st person: Heroine▪  Cliffhanger: None/Standalone
But with such a book, I feel like it's time for me to step out of my comfort zone.
Because I was a million different people: I was the awkward girl, I was a loner, I was frigid and then suddenly a slut, I was quiet, then aggressive, and then I was the new girl, I was the quirky girl, I was even the popular girl that boys wanted to date and girls wanted to hang out with, and then I was just me, I was just a writer and a dreamer and sometimes a good friend and sometimes a bad one.
I'm writing this because I feel like This Song Will Save Your Life is a book for us.
Because, in case you couldn’t already figure out, TSWSYL is life-changing.Leila Sales latest is a dark novel, but an important one.
I don’t think there is anything I love more than an author who is able to convey feelings without explicitly stating them and those waves were exactly what I got with this novel.TSWSYL really picks up, plot-wise, when Elise discovers an underground club and soon learns to DJ.
Char, the current DJ at the club Elise discovers, soon teaches her how to DJ and becomes more than just a friend to her.
Being a High School student myself I really connected to what Elise was feeling and all of the thoughts going through her head.
Every single character in this book had depth, even the petty popular girls in school that we only meet for a couple of pages.
Elise loves the feeling of being in the DJ booth looking out over the club and watching what her music can do to people.
But sometimes, and totally unexpectedly, something can go right.”    This book shows that even when you feel like everything is broken, one day with help, everything will come back together.
I really enjoyed this book. I was expecting something completely different actually. The struggles Elise went through happen so often in our world today and I just loved seeing how everything did turn out great in the end. She pushed through and found a great bunch of friends and found something that she loved and brought her so much joy.
I was born to be unpopular.  Let me start out this review by painting you pictures. PICTURE 1  Elise Dembowski has always been unpopular, there was never a moment when it wasn't so, there was no such thing as pinpointing the exact moment which marked her fall from grace. And I hereby submit these quotes as irrefutable evidence:  "Don't be special." That's what I would say to my younger self if I could pinpoint the moment when I went astray. But there was no one moment. I was always astray.And
Next thing to know is, that all her life, all she ever wanted was to be accepted, to be liked, to not be herself.
One day she comes across an abandoned warehouse night club named Start, where she meets people who will later on influence her life, people who, like her, know and understand the power of music.
I loved the moments, rare as they were, when I connected with Elise, when I felt like I could understand her a little.
Being at such a low point in her life, you just wanted to hug her and tell her everything is going to be all right.
But sometimes, and totally unexpectedly, something can go right." (89)"There are some people who want to win at whatever they do, even if the things they do are not the sort of things one wins at." (106)"I don't need a makeover.
The world will never embrace you." (211)"Sometimes you have to give up something you are to get to who you want to be." (220)"Sometimes people think they know you.
I was brokenI was chokingI was lostThis song saved my lifeI was bleedingStopped believingCould have diedThis song saved my lifeI was downI was drowningBut it came on just in timeThis song saved my life Simple Plan's This Song Saved My Life is the first thing I thought of, the first time I saw this novel. Now, that I have read this book, I can say that this song is relevant to the book.I was ready to give this book 4 stars when I'm in a middle of reading it when the later part comes and I didn't
Simple Plan's This Song Saved My Life is the first thing I thought of, the first time I saw this novel.
Because, This Song Will Save Your Life isn't a happy book, in the first place.
At all.This Song Will Save Your Life is a powerful, profound and realistic novel that reminds us to be ourselves.
We can choose to not mind some people's judgment because at the end of the day, whether you do something or not, some people still have a say about you.Lastly, This Song Will Save Your Life has a special place now in my heart because I think it saved me, partly saved me from the nothing I've become (bring me to life).
An incredible story of the importance of finding your place in the world, This Song Will Save Your Life is a great book and its main character is unlike any other.
The concept behind the book was something that would have meant so much to me when I was younger and struggling with my depression and anxiety (without even knowing I was).
It was a book that made me cry and feel sadness for the main character Elise.
During Char and Elise's 'relationship', I couldn't refrain from feeling uncomfortable at a relationship shared between a 16-year-old and a 20-year-old.
The overall messages within this book - that high school doesn't matter at the end of the day and that things do get better.
The writing style makes it enjoyable and the overall story is enjoyable, I didn't even mind the open ending in this case.
Her simplistic writing and the way she handles such serious issues like bullying and suicide takes her books to the another level.This book is from a perspective of Elise, who has never been famous in her life, has always been kind of a person who sits away from the 'cool' group, and not because she doesn't like them, because she feels like she could never fit in that cool group.
And while I do not agree with that sort of thing, or in any way can come up with an excuse for her behavior-because it's just wrong, I've also heard about real life incidents like these around me, so as stupid as may sounds, people actually do this.
I remember the feeling of not being able to fit in a crowd when I was in high school.
There was a time I really felt invisible during a conversation and when I tried to join in, they just continued as if I weren't there with them.
She said that I should cheer up and do things I enjoyed like playing Badminton or reading a book.
You don't have to change just to fit in the crowd.
Just be yourself and enjoy what you're passionate about.
Can I say this book has an impeccable list of songs?
It was never to the extreme that Elise suffered in this novel but for about 2 years I dreaded going to school because my "friends" turned on me and decided to make my life a living hell.
Elise's journey with suicidal thoughts and self harm was limited in comparison to the journey that I know a lot of people have travelled (I myself have travelled along that path).
I feel like this could be used to sum up the majority of my life and I'm sure a lot of people could also relate to this.
Trigger warning for self-harm.
“You think it's so easy to change yourself.
You think it's so easy, but it's not.
True, things don't stay the same forever: couches are replaced, boys leave, you discover a song, your body becomes forever scarred.
And with each of these moments you change and change again, your true self spinning, shifting positions-- but always at last it returns to you, like a dancer on the floor.
Because throughout it all, you are still, always, you: beautiful and bruised, known and unknowable.
And isn't that - just you - enough?"I feel all warm and fuzzy inside; really enjoyed this one!
But there was a comfort that came from reading it as well because I can’t imagine that anyone could write about such a wretched school experience if they themselves hadn’t suffered the same thing, and for any of you out there that may have also been taunted and teased in such a way, you know the kind of hope and comradery that can form among fellow misfits.
I’m so so glad that Leila Sales had the courage to write such a book and I hope that those who are suffering from miserable school experiences read this and feel a little less alone.
2.5 - 3 Stars If not for its perfect timing, I would have given This Song Will Save Your Life two stars.When I first began this popular book, my expectations went from the heavens, down to rock bottom. I absolutely loathed the first few chapters. I was forced to endure a narrator who was not only judgmental, but who seemed to be suffering from permanent PMS. High school isn't that bad, I thought. The girl is a damn drama queen.Of course, after this line of thinking irony decided to make its ver
The girl is a damn drama queen.Of course, after this line of thinking irony decided to make its very welcomed appearance into my life.Note: Beware of hyperboles galore.The week I was reading This Song Will Save Your Life, everything that could possibly go wrong during school, naturally, went wrong.
I participate way too much in class more like yell out answers, I try to cheer up people when they clearly don’t want to talk, and I’m nerdy as hell when it comes to my choice of jokes.
Seeing me as the best target, those eye-rolling chicks (and guys) from this particular novel magically came to life and decided to make their way into my school.
See more reviews at YA Midnight Reads“People are who they are and, try as you might, you cannot make them be what you want them to be.”Have you ever just read a book and wondered if someone got into your brain and put parts of your life down on paper?
After one day of reading this, I have been contemplating about this book non-stop.Elise Dembowski has never fit in.
Elise is a strong, vehement character that I could relate to so well, I wondered if we shared the same brain.
So when Leila Sales dragged in a sack of high-school clichés, I only loved this book more and more.
This was a really beautiful read.You see, while dystopias, apocalyptic, and science fiction stories are generally my favourite genres, I do enjoy a sappy, sad story every once in a while. Reading about situations that force your throat to tighten and your heart to squeeze makes me feel somehow alive. Is it weird that I actually look forward to being a sobbing, snotting mess when it comes to books like this? Maybe, but I always loved that feeling. But This Song Will Save Your Life takes it up a
Is it weird that I actually look forward to being a sobbing, snotting mess when it comes to books like this?
And this book truly hit the nail on the head when it came to feeling that way.
She was absolutely proud that she loves 70-80s music, that she thought people who liked otherwise were less intelligent human beings.
it makes you look like a hypocrite.Other than that, this was a fantastic book about growing up and broadening your horizon.
Anyone who has ever felt loneliness will easily find themselves relating to Elise's situation and troubles, making it quite a painful (in a good way) and uplifting experience.
In some cases, it tells you everything you need to know.” So my final recommendation is as follows: if you are into music, read the first chapter, if you like itI believe this book can save you, but for other readers -including me- it certainly didn't!
Manche Bücher haben diesen Zauber. Du kannst gar nicht in Worte fassen, was dir so gefallen hat.So ist das mit diesem hier.Eine kurze und für mich gute Story. Spricht sicherlich nicht jeden an. Manches war sehr kurz abgehandelt und hätt ich mir mehr Tiefgang gewünscht. Zwischendurch ging es einfach zu schnell und hab ich ein paar wichtige Dinge überlesen.Aber man klappt es zu und grinst. Und somit brauch man im Detail auf nichts weiter eingehen.Danke!
While I do not love it was a really great book.The books starts off with our main character Elise as she explains that she has never been gifted at making friends.
She makes her way over to Amelia's (a nice girl in her class) table and asks if she could sit with them.
Realization hits Elise that while she did all that research she never thought about what would happen if she has no idea what her new friends are talking about.
Then one of Amelia's friends tells Elise that she has to clean their trash as she did not put her finger on her nose.
It’s like, REAL.
Besides being in the same school all her life, she’s been dubbed uncool since fourth grade (seriously, I’m with Elise, who does that in fourth grade?) and has no friends.
Yup. I loved how we’re presented with a character who could be out of any book – but this time it’s believable.
In THIS SONG WILL SAVE YOUR LIFE, we get a character who tries so dang hard to be liked.
She doesn’t drown Elise’s character.
You should read this book and be destroyed with me.
