https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/636108.Dr_Bloodmoney
Dick, Dr. Bloodmoney If you’ve watched Ex Machina, you know this is a super-slick film of two young men interacting with a beautiful version of AI, a great work of science fiction with such a streamlined, clear-cut, linear, easy-to-follow storyline, at the opposite end of the spectrum from, well, Philip K.
A tiny adult person lives inside Edie KellerIf being a seven-year-old post-nuclear war little girl isn’t tough enough, Edie has tiny brother Bill lodged right inside her, next to her kidney.
At one point, Stuart McConchie feels great sadness since he had to leave his horse hitched to a pillar under a San Francisco dock.
Dick's Dr. Bloodmoney Or How We Got Along After the Bomb is a post-nuclear apocalyptic dark comedy taking its title from the popular Stanley Kubrick film Dr. Strangelove.
The work focuses on a community of people struggling to survive after nuclear war.
Though references to off stage barbarism color the action, PKD provides his readers with a lesson in hope for humanity and, more than just survival, an idea that man as a social and communal animal may even learn to thrive.
Dr. Bloodmoney also introduces readers to one of PKD’s most enduringly complex characters, the thalidomide victim Hoppy Harrington.
I have absolutely no idea how this book lost its fourth star and ended up as a very strong 3. Ironically, in one respect, this was a breakthrough novel for me because something about PKD’s reality-blurring narrative style of addled consciousness really clicked with me for the first time. Now I loved The Man in the High Castle and thought that A Scanner Darkly was both original and very moving. However, my enjoyment of those works occurred despite his confused/warped non-reality format, not part
I think he spent most of his time pessimistically waiting for the world to blow itself up and yet he strongly believed/hoped that humanity would somehow overcome these obstacles of our stupidity and find a way to move forward.
Stuart exemplifies the adaptability of the human animal to extreme changes in circumstances and represents PKD’s ultimate optimism.
This is PKD and the emphasis is on people, psychology and the human condition.
I do know that this book, even more so than The Man in the High Castle, which I liked better, has encouraged me to read more of PKD’s work.
two oddly endearing yet threatening characters stood out for me amongst the compellingly diverse cast: Hoppy Harrington - cringing, deluded, armless & legless, gifted with increasingly terrifying powers and a very specific plan to take over the world; his nemesis Bill - whiny, yearning, able to speak to the dead, an unborn twin to a self-absorbed 7-year old girl, longing for a release into the larger world.
and yet they are but two pieces in an intriguingly mystifying and often ironic larger puzzle.this is a book of many minor, human notes; mournful and hopeful in equal measures.
A former physicist has paranoid fantasies that he caused the bombs to drop by the power of his mind (and, this being Philip K Dick, the paranoia is seen to be fully justified: he eventually wills more nuclear explosions and, sure enough, they start to go off).
The book has nothing to say about the nuclear threat or the US space programme, and only a little to contribute to postapocalyptic literature; but it does have quite a bit to say about 1960s California, and it has vast amounts to say about the state of Philip K Dick's fragile and fascinating mind.
"In a way there are no freaks, no abnormalities, except in the statistical sense.
Grim realistic post apocalypse novels like The Road or  Earth Abides are all well but they lack that patented PKD weirdness that makes his books so fascinating and entertaining.There are actually two nuclear apocalypses in this book, the first one was caused by an accident during a nuclear weapon test, millions of people died or affected by radiation.
The human mutants often have “funny powers” and the animals have their intelligence greatly enhanced.Most of Dr. Bloodmoney* is set in the rural town of West Marin which Dick has populated with some very colorful characters.
Un roman ceva mai atipic de-al lui Philip K.
Dick, ale cărui teme precum destrămarea realității sau repercusiunile pe care le poate avea consumul de droguri asupra omului nu se regăsesc aici.
Sumbră, întunecată, dar și cu o rază de speranță în capacitatea omului de-a-și reveni chiar și în urma celor mai înfricoșătoare grozăvii care i se pot întâmpla.
Pe cât e de înduioșătoare povestea celui exilat în satelit care le spune povești oamenilor și reușește să-i să le insufle tăria de-a merge mai departe, pe-atât e de terifiantă povestea mutantului telepat care începe să se creadă Dumnezeu.
Mai multe, pe FanSF: http://wp.me/pz4D9-2De.
Still, this is Dick, so there are your super-powered invalids and your paranoid scientists convinced that they telepathically set off all the bombs, but when stood side by side with Dick's paranoid epics like Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep and The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch, this is a very normal-seeming piece of science fiction.Through a typical swirling cast of characters, Dick has crafted another captivating world in which the reader is again left wondering whether events actually occurred or whether we were all subjected to intense fever dreams and hallucinations.
I keep hearing how great PKD is, but after 40 years of trying his works intermittently, I'm still not convinced. He's one of the few authors that I think Hollywood helps rather than harms. Nothing about this story was particularly good or compelling. It's post apocalyptic & I can think of half a dozen that did a far better job of it. None of the characters were particularly interesting, the writing was mediocre & my suspension of disbelief was sorely tried at times. The reader was pretty good or I wouldn't have made it through.
It's a non-sequitur to say that this is an odd PKD novel, since all his novels are, but this one strikes me as different from his other books.
There are various mutations in humans and animals alike due to radiation exposure, and civilization has been taken back many decades due to the collapse of industrial society.Unfortunately, the sense of reality-bending and realization that all is not as it seems is lacking here, and despite the interesting cast, the storyline really lacks any strong narrative or focus.
However, the ending seemed a bit contrived, and didn't make much sense to me.This has been my 9th PKD novel this year, but not my favorite.
...non si fosse portato neanche un libro cartaceo in vacanza?E se il supporto a disposizione di questo viaggiatore risultasse inutilizzabile in spiaggia al sole?E se l'unica libreria (libreria si fa per dire) nel raggio d'azione del viaggiatore non offrisse niente di papabile al suddetto?Al viaggiatore non rimarrebbe che "ravanare" tra i libri a disposizione dell'hotel in cui soggiorna, pochi, quasi tutti non in italiano (ci sarà un perché) e scovare questo titolo...di Dick.Allora il viaggiatore che in testa aveva Dick da un sacco di tempo pensa: "Ecco.
Ma siam sicuri che sia quel Dick così tanto citato e osannato?" Sto titolo il viaggiatore in effetti mica l'aveva mai sentito nominare.
Finirà ipocondriaco nella sua solitudine e poi psicanalizzato (e di questa cosa, non ho capito il senso).Meno riusciti, o comunque meno brillanti, altri personaggi: l'handicappato con poteri paranormali e bruciante voglia di rivincita sui "normali", che nel nuovo mondo assume sempre più importanza per l'abilità tecnica nel riparare oggetti; la ragazza perennemente insoddisfatta (che la dà a destra e a manca); il commesso viaggiatore nero (che Dick in persona, nella postfazione, dice di preferire rispetto a tutti i suoi altri personaggi - caricandolo di un significato globale che sinceramente mi era completamente sfuggito).Soprattutto, la figura meno riuscita è quella dello schizofrenico fisico nucleare, il dott.
Was it Vietnam or THC which led to the paranoia?
The literature of the late 60s and early 70s certainly follows the fear of Fifth Columnists of early Cold War and Red Scare.
Appearances are deceptive.
Dick’s novel uses different POVs to convey an uncertainty.
A nuclear attack has occurred and survivors attempt to reconstruct as a stranded astronaut reads Somerset Maugham to the world over the radio.
There’s psychosis and telekinesis along with garden variety racism and fear of the disabled.
Reading reviews, I do sense the optimism despite the charred earth setting for the novel.
This is probably the weakest PKD book I've read.
The narrative, fragmented by numerous points of view of the disparate characters whose futures eventually become loosely entwined later on in the novel, and punctuated by random time intervals between chapters, it didn't flow well at all, especially for the first half of the novel.Here are some familiar themes such as mental illness, paranoia and megalomania and other new ones such as a post apocalyptic scenario, not one but a couple have already happened and another unfolds in the narrative.
All in all, not a book I would particularly recommend.
Dr. Bloodmoney features Philip K.
And Dr. Bloodmoney ends well - it's beautifully ambiguous, as is the last line of dialogue (which is really Bonny thinking to herself.) It's not a bad book.
The book jumps from character to character without good reason.
There are characters here who are so insignificant and so briefly featured that you have to wonder why they're in the book in the first place, let alone the POV.
As soon as I began - finally - connecting to a character the book would jump to someone else.
One of the wildest from Philip K. Dick's.Soundtrack playing : Splitting the Atom - Massive Attack-----------Un des plus perchés de son auteur !Correspondance musicale : Splitting the Atom - Massive Attack
Originally posted here.Okay, so.  Trying to write about  Dr Bloodmoney, or How We Got Along After the Bomb  without spoiling the shit out of it for people who haven't read it is NIGH ON IMPOSSIBLE but I'm going to give it my best shot (especially since I know of at least one person reading this that was considering it for their next PKD read).It's made especially difficult because I have so many highlighted passages that I want to talk about, but without the context of the book, or sufficient ex
You read it once, and you like it just fine (or hate it) and it kind of blows your mind a little; you read it a second time and notice many of the things you missed the first time, your mind is further blown; but then the third time, there's that Dick Click I talked about and you're just "HOLY SHIT, WHAT DID I JUST READ?
MY MIND IS WELL AND TRULY BLOWN!" and then everything else you read after it kind of suffers in comparison.[Queue the mind-blowing-Dick jokes]When I talked about Counter-Clock World (click that link up there), I mentioned that it could be considered weird in that...it wasn't all that weird.
PKD proposed two titles for this post-nuclear apocalypse novel: In Earth's Diurnal Course and A Terran Odyssey.
Wolheim's title might have been a flagrant effort to cash in on Stanley Kubrick's Dr. Strangelove, but at least it did not include the word "diurnal," and it did give some hint to what the book is about.This is one of the dozen or so novels PKD wrote in 1963/64, but due to the build up of back inventory, it was not published until 1965.
PKD gets in a sly dig at the latter in his own novel.
There I am thinking that this guy is just joking around and being funny when he said all those horrible things to me… I was laughing at this guy’s wits thinking he was the coolest… but right there when I saw that It hit me!
This book sucks and I don’t like it but it has nothing to do with the fact that Seth thinks he is better than everyone else and do a lot of shit that actually hurts people when he is feeling like he is better than us because of the amount of pages he manages to add a week.
Mi-a plăcut mult. Philip K. Dick rămâne unul dintre autorii mei preferați, iar această frescă a modului în care omenirea a supraviețuit războiului este un exemplu elocvent al talentului său. Păcat că în limba română nu s-a păstrat și subtitlul romanului, cred că s-a pierdut din mesaj cu asta.
Ma așteptam la ceva mai complex. Asa, ce am primit au fost doar idei. Restul recenziei aici:https://youtu.be/1-l2IWpi45A
A rather strange premise and feel to the book meets the usual expectations of Philip K. Dick, who is known for the weirdness.Interesting ideas and setting with some unsettling characters I liked but didn't manage to make me love the book overall however. There was just something about this that didn't work for me, which I can't define, but regardless it was still good, just nothing special.
Un roman extrem de deprimant, dar mult mai ancorat în realitate față de majoritatea romanelor lui Phillip K. Dick. Devine și destul de înspăimântător pe final, cumva m-a ajutat să înțeleg mai bine teama pe care o simțeau oamenii normali față de mutanți în universul X-Men. Per total, nota 10 pentru atmosferă, dar mi-ar fi plăcut ori un număr mai mic de personaje, ori să fie mai bine definite, pentru că mai ales la început mi-a fost greu să țin pasul.
nu chiar best of PK Dick, nici tocmai tipică lui (deși pe alocuri zgâlțâie nițel ”ce-i real?”), dar stranie într-un sens bun și cu niște personaje foarte bine conturate ca individualități. Fiind cam schematică și pe alocuri haotică, tindeam să-i dau 4/5. Dar apoi, out of the blue, când credeam că povestea s-a așezat pe-un făgaș, au venit fazele cu Bill și m-au dat pe spate: surprinzătoare, mind-fucking și grotești. Hell, yeah!Bună treabă, mr PKD, tare bună!
I dont think this book is among my fav PKD books or that is one of his best written. The storytelling was not as strong as the characters. What made it good was the regular people cast of characters that he wrote so well,so flawed, so realistic. His take on post apocalyptic was also was very strong,very weird,depressing. Another weakness is that it felt dated at times which is unsual for PKD.
Challenge, and the SF Masterworks Challenge.Method of the world's destruction: nuclear warI am not a fan of PKD; I think those who follow my reviews probably know that by now.
It's not a standard of the time issue - as people who follow my reviews probably know by now as well, I note these problematic dated bigoted elements, but I don't let that decide my opinion of a book.
But I think I'm holding on to this one.At first I thought this book was a 70s updated version of Alas, Babylon.
Walt Dangerfield, on his way to Mars with his wife, is trapped in Earth orbit, and eventually finds himself, following his wife’s suicide, as a kind of cosmic DJ transmitting cheesy music and messages to the scattered post-apocalyptic communities that later develop.
This isn’t one of Dick’s best, but there’s some complex characterisations, the usual ambivalent reality angle and some amusing, ironic and surreal moments.Doctor Stockstill, the psychiatrist whom Bluthgeld visits is forced to analyse his own feelings toward the man whom many consider to be a mass-murderer, and in rejecting Bluthgeld’s paranoid fantasies of a communist enemy determined to kill him, finds himself unable to believe in a real enemy when the bombs begin falling.
Quite simply, Philip K Dick is the greatest sci-fi writer that America has ever produced.
The other villain is Hoppy Harrison, a Thalidomide sport without arms or legs, but with strange psychic abilities such as telekinesis and a genius for making things work in a post-nuclear age.The other seven main characters are interesting in different, often strange ways.
Yet he has produced a body of work that at times crosses over into mainstream fiction, and Dr. Bloodmoney qualifies in its own way.
What a strange PKD book - i know thats a bit redundant but hear me out, ok?PKD takes a "conventional" scifi story, the nuclear post apocalypse, and creates a vivid and memorable tale that is unlike anything else in the subgenre.
Mutants of all sort, talking dogs, orbiting radio DJ's, and all sorts of psychic shenanigans compose this book - while interspersed with shades of 1960's domestic california life.Very different than other PKD books - this book doesnt recycle his usual motifs and future tech, instead makes a fresh original world.
Dr. Bloodmoney isnt as mind-bendy as other novels but there is still plenty to keep the reader guessing while and after reading.
