https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34519.Wings
“I think,” said Masklin, “that maybe they’re intelligent enough to be lonely.”Wings was definitely my favorite book of the series, but looking at the trilogy as a whole, it is more than amazing. I loved the world and the characters Pratchett created. And even though I've been reading this series for about a week or so, it was quite emotional to say goodbye to these amazing characters. This is definitely one of those series that I will definitely go back to and re-read, even more than once.
Third and last book in the Bromeliad Series.Whilst this was very entertaining is was, in my mind, the weakest of the three books.Nobody I can think of can take the mundane and ordinary, turn it on its head and make it extraordinary, except for Terry Pratchett that is.When ‘thing’ tells the Nomes that they have just broken the sound barrier, Masklin wants to know who responsible for breaking it.
That’s just one of many quirky comments and that’s what makes these books so special.When Masklin discovers that the grandson of “Arnold Bros Est 1905” is travelling to Florida to launch a satellite into space Masklin makes plans to take ‘thing’ to Florida.
What follows is quirky, fun filled tale of Nomes vs.
Just as good as the first two books!
This book to me loses some of the serious tones Diggers had and goes back to the rip roaring adventures of truckers - I think it works better for it though I am sure there are plenty out there who would disagree with me - but who cares.
I have met many readers over the years who love or hate the work of Terry Pratchett - hey each to their own - but if you enjoy his work I think this is of his better non-disc world series (the second are the Johnny and...
This was a great conclusion to the series. After Diggers being so similar to Truckers, Wings took us too new heights, both literally and figuratively. Our nomes make huge leaps of faith and travel, changing, evolving, gaining understanding. Pratchett gets more sublime, as our nomes meet other nomes, geese, humans, frogs, and a space ship. Loved it.
Wings brings the Bromeliad trilogy to a higher levelThe task at hand for Masklin is very clear: find the Ship that will get the nomes away from Earth.
At least that is the start of a plan.With Wings Terry Pratchett concludes his Bromeliad Trilogy.
This book tells the story of Masklin's quest for The Ship and plays in parallel to the second book Diggers.
The story really gets going now.
The analogy with the Bromeliad frogs becomes clear and shows us a nice piece of moral fairytale.Wings clearly brings the trilogy to a higher lever and you can take that literally.
A brilliant sequel to the trilogy. Chock full of humour, which is really just stating the obvious about humans. I particularly love their reaction to finding Nomes, and how they chase the space ship. Even more laughable that Masklin thinks humans are lonely. It would have been great to have had more of these, about how they gather the Nomes from all areas of the Earth. But alas, without Terry Pratchett here anymore, there's not a chance. A really satisfying read.
[Quick, short review from memory before I re-read and review fully:Oh. Surprised at the lower rating for this one. Again, with a book from a series it's hard to judge what I can and can't remember from the specific book. General plotlines throughout but singularly nothing. The lower rating is intriguing, however. Only 3?]
Najbolja od sve tri.
První knížka, kterou jsem od Pratchetta četla (já vím, já vím, docela pozdě), takže nejen, že jsem byla plná očekávání, ale také jsem si pohrávala s myslenkou, líbí se to tolika lidem, tak co když to mě nezaujme?
Co když na takovou četbu nejsem?
(haha)Velmi se mi líbí způsob Pratchettova psaní, ještě více jeho vytvořený svět.
Jak jsem psala, nevěděla jsem, co přesně čekat, a to, co jsem objevila, bylo úžasné, geniální.
Rozhovory mezi nómy, pohledy na lidský svět, humor i chvile k zamyšlení, vykreslení každé postavy (Confetto x Paspulo x Muskulín), krása momentů.
In story I loved this.There wasn't a moment in reading this where I wasn't completely enthralled.
It was witty, clever, sarcastic and just like Pratchett's other creation, The Luggage, could actually give off different emotions while being silent and having no face to express itself with.
What I truly loved was seeing Pratchett use the things we became accustomed to seeing in his work by the time we reached Wings, footnotes, descriptive dialogue and comments on how and why people behave how they do.
Easily some of Pratchett's best work which is saying something considering his acclaimed body of work.
There is a flower, so the story goes, at the top of a tree, that is so huge that it collects rainwater like a pond.
And there is a species of frogs so tiny that for them, that flower is their entire world.
So goes the concluding book of the Bromeliad trilogy.
My favourite out of the series, this elevates the nomes trilogy to more than just a children's series.
There is growth and maturity in the characters, one which is easily glossed over by the humour, but leaves the reader with a new perspective on this race of tiny beings, who are far more compassionate and perceptive then how they began.
A nice conclusion to this trilogy. We find Masklin & company travelling on a plane and discovering more than they ever knew about humans and themselves in the process. They travel to Florida, travel on geese, & stumble upon more than they expected.Thing was hilarious in this book. Quite sarcastic but understandably so. This book was funny an endearing. The innocence of the nomes mixed with the description of the humans reactions are pretty accurate.
I really enjoyed this book. I'm sure it's not for everyone. I stumbled upon the Bromeliad trilogy by accident, and found myself immediately carried away with Maskalen and the other gnomes. I love how this circles 'round to the ending. I am so glad that I found these books while some of my children are still young enough to really appreciate them.
A story about gnomes looking for a home is actually a comment on how small our life can be without us really knowing. Pratchett argues for an exploration of your world, and even how it can be necessary to leave it.
A New Favorite AuthorWhen Terry Pratchett died earlier this year, I had wondered what I was missing...there was A LOT of love thrown his way. Now I know. This is good, good stuff. I wish I'd found it sooner.
This book gave me and my husband a "call" - when we are at the food store and "loose" each other, we'll just call "mip mip!" until one finds the other one :-)I love it :-)
Really sweet ending to the Bromeliad Trilogy. It kind of reminded me a bit of the Hitchhikers Guide series... but really kid friendly.
Asi nejpovedenější díl trilogie. Nejvíc nómů, nejvíc nápadů a nejvíc konfrontace s lidmi. A co teprve s "mípmípmíp" ;-)
Just pure brilliance. The whole trilogy is genius. Read these so many times but never fails to make me smile. :) This right here is how I fell in love with Terry Pratchett.
A great wrap-up for the series and one that will have you cheering for the nomes...
The third in a trilogy of children's books by Pratchett, it is a later revision of a very early work.This is an easy read - for me it was a little too easy, even as a children's book.
Pratchett has a reasonably light touch, though at times the humour seems a wee bit forced, and although many of the story elements and ideas are derived from other works (and I'm sure he would have been the first to acknowledge this), the combination is original.
Children will undoubtedly react differently, and it can certainly be recommended as entertaining light reading which tries - perhaps a little too often and too energetically - to convey some philosophical ideas as well.
While one set of nomes is trying to fend off the depredations of humans with a JCB, another set had to hitch a ride on a Concorde (how hard could it be?) to Florida to catch another ride on a satellite in order to get back home to England and pick up the other, JCB-riding nomes, and then fly off to their distant home planet.Confused?
Like the nomes on the Concorde, just hang on and don't get too worried when the floor suddenly becomes a wall.
Una mini (ok la smetto XD) odissea che porta il popolo dei Niomi dai piccoli reparti dell'Emporio (Santa Occasionissima!) fino all'Esterno per poi scoprire mondi sempre più vasti...
e non immaginate quanto!In questa serie ci ho trovato un po' di tutto: un po' degli Sgraffignoli di Mary Norton, un pizzico de La Collina dei Conigli di Richard Adams, e, a sorpresa, anche qualcosina della Guida Galattica per gli Autostoppisti.Ma soprattutto ho trovato tanto, tanto Terry Pratchett!
Quel Pratchett che con ironia ti racconta la verità sulla società e sulla natura umana, che attraverso i Niomi ti descrive le nostre stesse contraddizioni e i nostri stessi limiti.
Skvelý záver skvelej trilógie. Tentoraz sledujeme cestu Muskulína, Confetta, Paspula a Veci za Vnukom Richardom, 39, zatiaľ čo Pochmurka zvádza ťažký boj opísaný v "Na nepřítele". Pratchett je skvelý autor a zbožňujem jeho písanie. Tu len dokázal, aký je to majster. Postupné Muskulínovo pochopenie, ako to Pochmurka myslela s tými žabami a broméliou, pomalé uvedomenie si, že Loď nepatrí len im, ale všetkým Nómov a na záver Confetto, tomu hovorí character development! Skvelé.
This is the last book of a series of four, the other two are called Truckers and Diggers. this book is also very good and quite sad at the end, Terry Pratchett, the author, is an amazing writer and describes everything very well, he makes the story come alive. I suggest that if you haven't read the first two books then you shouldn't read this one until you have, because they all tie together to make one amazing story
Absolutely stunning ! so funny, this has to be the best fiction I've read so far. and i'm starting to think this could be my favourite author ! now as a whole this trilogy is brilliant and some remark to the way in which truckers and wings link and how wings expands on from truckers is very clever i must say.
A nice ending to the series. I felt this one was better constructed. I was constantly thinking, how on earth are they going to achieve what they set out to do? And it all comes together in a very satisfying and positive way that doesn't feel too deus ex machina.Not the funniest of Pratchett's and the flower thing felt a *little* bit heavy handed, but overall a great book.
As usual, Terry Pratchett is a delight. Listened to this with 8-13 year old grandsons, and only the youngest was confused at times. The oldest now wants to read more of this particular series, even though this is the first of three.
No puc fer «review» sense fer spoilers... Així que només dic que és un gran tancament de la trilogia. Divertit, com els altres dos, però molt més entranyable. Un tancament preciós. Grandiós, Pratchett...
