https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/877752.Fruits_Basket_Vol_7
Hey, what are you smiling about?”Kyu-kun saying that he’s sorry for hurting Tohru in the last volume!!!
;-P”When the person you love gets hurt because of you, you feel like the most pathetic, worthless person on earth.”Oh, no Hatori-san!
T_T I love Shigure’s and his conversations but knowing his background this really hurt and hit me straight in the heart!
=))”All this time you’ve tried to keep away the beautiful things in life, but suddenly you feel confused.
You begin to love the beautiful things.
QUÉ. DOLOR. DE. CORAZÓN.
I have mixed feelings about this volume - I really enjoyed Uotani's backstory and seeing her growth as a character, the whole Yuki fanclub thing is getting a bit silly and Hiro is VILE. So yeah, both good and bad here. I honestly don't know how much of Hiro I'm going to be able to take.
3.5 starsPretty good, I especially liked Uo's flashback of Tohru and her mum. Hiro was a bit of a brat though, but I guess it was cute how much he loved Kisa and was jealous of Tohru. Looking forward to the next one.
🐉 This volume is Hatori! 🐉The exploration of the bratty Hiro continues into this volume, and we come to understand why his behaviour is so harsh towards Tohru. A Sohma who isn't considerably nice was a change, and we are able to see another insight into the cruel character of Akito. A pretty uneventful volume but still fun. We see that Akito has a control on all the Sohma's in some way, using fear as the main mechanism of control. 🐄 Next volume is Haru! 🐄
I like it how this book includes the feelings and thoughts of a club at a school who only think and talk about the character Yuki. The group sure is weird but is pretty interesting to hear about why they liked Yuki so much.
I think this was probably my least favorite of them all so far. Simply because I just didn't find it nearly as funny or as interesting as the others, but I still liked it nonetheless. I especially liked seeing how the friendship between Tohru, Kyoko and Uotani got started. I love the way they stand up for each other.
I really liked how Natsuki Takaya added Uotani's past and how she came to become friends with Tohru Honda and love Tohru's mother. I also liked how the author is adding more scenes of the Yuki fanclub. I love their reactions to certain situations and how they handle them.
Love Uotani's back story but the parts with Hiro and then the Prince Yuki fan club stuff...meh. I don't have patience for that anymore!
He needs to learn some manners.I like the chapters that go into Uo's relationship with Kyoko.
It's pretty cool to see Uo's background.
It also gave a little more insight into Tohru's relationship with her mother.
Kyoko sounds like she was really awesome.
It's sad that she died.The last chapter I remember from the anime too.
Again, it's pretty cool to see into another person's life besides Tohru's.
I think that's kind of unusual considering Yuki is usually more perceptive than that.Though this was a pretty good volume with some cute chapters, I miss Kyo and Tohru.
I've never liked Hiro very much, but I really enjoyed Uotani's backstory! Tbh now I kind of ship her and Tohru but I ship Tohru with almost anyone in this series so \_(ツ)_/
I've never liked Hiro very much, but I really enjoyed Uotani's backstory! Tbh now I kind of ship her and Tohru but I ship Tohru with almost anyone in this series so ¯\_(ツ)_/¯
Eh, I didn't think this one was as good as the others. (Maybe because I'm so in love with vol. 6 right now....)
Nothing really happened in this one..I mean we met Hiro and I sort of hate him tbh.Onto volume 8!
It was a good story and it shows you another side to the great artist who started this series.
and she's doing a fabulous job in making me want to murder Akito (more on that later).This volume mostly centered around Hiro, Uotani, and Minagawa (although she's a small part compared to the other two).
One of the greatest back stories told so far!Minagawa is just a pathetic schoolgirl in love with Yuki, like everyone else of the studentbody!
-_-" There's a lot of things in this volume that might get on your nerves, I know it did me.
This isn't actually a review, but if anyone is interested...I actually have my fan art on the back of this book!!! Just look for E. Duke, from Mustang, OK. ;) Then chat with me about all things Fruits Basket after if you enjoyed!
A nice addition to a great series. I love the kid possessed by the spirit of the ram. & the character development here for Uotani is amazing. :) recommended to fans of manga and urban fantasy.
I love it when we are continually learning about each member of the zodiac and I was so interested in meeting Hiro in this volume, however I will admit that I did get a little annoyed with his harsh attitude towards Tohru who was only trying to be friends with him.
I also loved the way that Natsuki Takaya explained Arisa’s side of her story and how she met Tohru’s mother Kyoko.
As usual, Natsuki Takaya has done an excellent job at illustrating the characters, especially of Tohru and Kyo as they seriously look like a cute couple!Be forewarned, this volume has many heartbreaking scenes, including Arisa’s terrible life as a juvenile delinquent and Hiro blaming himself for a terrible incident that happened years ago.
La historia de Uo fue muy interesante y el final me dejó con mucha duda
Saber más de Hiro Sohma y de Arisa Uotani siempre es bueno <3La verdad que la madurez de Hiro es impresionante para un niño de 12 años, aunque llega a ser repelente es al mismo tiempo muy tierno y adorable (aunque a él no le guste mostrar ese lado más débil).(view spoiler)[ me resultó curioso que en el anime la reacción de Akito a los sentimientos de Hiro hacia Kisa estuviera mucho más suavizada, en el manga le da una paliza de impresión que la pobre tiene que llevar incluso vendas, ¡y tarda varias semanas en curarse!
Sin embargo en el anime todo queda simbolizado con un simple empujón en un pasillo.
No me parece justo.
I'm so glad that we finally got to see Uo's backstory and how she met Tohru. As always, yet another volume of this series brings tears to my eyes. (I would love it if Uo's relationship with her father would be shown in the future.)
The amount of heart and love in this series is really out of this world. I can't tell you how many times I almost cried. Every character has something going on and they all still take time for eachother. Can't wait to read more.
Nah, I'm out. This is just not for me.
The problem with cannonballing a series is I never have anything to say after each book except WHERE IS THE NEXT ONE?????maybe that's all I need to say...
Compare un nuovo membro della famiglia Soma, il presuntuoso Hiro che si dimostra particolarmente odioso nei confronti di Tohru per via del suo forte legame con Kisa, verso la quale prova dei sentimenti d’amore.
Mi è piaciuto e divertito il personaggio di Hiro, ma sopratutto la parte con la narrazione del passato di Uotani, che finora è rimasta alquanto sullo sfondo, ma è stato piacevole leggere la sua storia di amicizia, mentre la parte finale, mi ha mooollto intrigato e spero di poter leggere presto il proseguo di questa serie e scoprire di più sui personaggi misteriosi...
I can't believe how fast I'm zipping through these! Here are a few notes I wrote down for this volume:- I wonder if the girls in Prince Yuki's fan club realize that if they all follow the club rules of keeping their distance from Yuki, none of them will ever get to know him well enough for him to go out with them?- I forgot how awful Hiro is! He's definitely one of my least favorite characters.- I loved hearing how Tohru and her mom (view spoiler)[ turned Uo-chan away from a life of crime! (hide
Here are a few notes I wrote down for this volume:- I wonder if the girls in Prince Yuki's fan club realize that if they all follow the club rules of keeping their distance from Yuki, none of them will ever get to know him well enough for him to go out with them?- I forgot how awful Hiro is!
(hide spoiler)] I sincerely think Tohru and her mom make/made an impact on everyone they meet/met!- The note about Uo-chan working in a convenience store reminded me of something that happens in one of the following volumes!
What can I say-- it's wonderful!
In this volume we meet the Ram, Hiro Sohma; and he is a total freaking brat.
(Just ask Kyo!
XD) But as with all of Takuya Sensei's characters there are some very interesting depths to why he is the way he is, and a wonderful story arch developing.
And as far as the series 'baddies' go, Hiro doesn't really rank among them.
He's just a young kid, who's mouth is much bigger than he is, and with some pretty serious issues.
see why this series is so good?)Anyway, check out Fruits Basket for yourself and see!Happy Reading!
Lo mejor de este tomo para mi fue la historia de Uotani. Este personaje desde el principio me había llamado la atención y quería saber más de ella. igual me encantó que saliera Kyoko, la mamá de Tooru, siempre se el menciona y sería increíble saber de su historia completa igual.La aparición de Hiro en la historia se me hizo un poco tediosa de leer al igual lo que tiene que ver con el club de fans de Yuki. Pero entiendo que se nos dieron pequeños detalles que serán importante para los siguiente tomo.¡Vamos al siguiente!
Rereading this series I am again reminded of how much I disliked Hiro Sohma the first time we read him. The punk kid makes me grit my teeth, and the way Tohru reacts to him is truly annoying. Thankfully you only have to deal with him in the first two chapters of this volume. The other chapters provide the backstory to how Arisa Uotani befriended Tohru and Tohru’s mom, Kyoko. We get more nuggets of wisdom from Tohru’s mom; she’s wonderful. It’s a sweet story.
