https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/318754.High_Adventure
I am unsure how I haven't got to it before.It is a great book, which shared Hillary's obvious passion for mountaineering, and at the same time shows his respect for those other men in the expedition and the reconnaissances before who all contributed so much the the final success of Hillary and Tenzing.It covers not only the 1953 expedition - the first to conquer Everest, but also the 1951 and 1952 reconnaissance expeditions (led by Eric Shipton).
Their own expedition is the same - abandoned oxygen bottles, they abandon their tents at the high camps when they are no longer required.
The funny thing is that people probably eschew this book, thinking it's written in "old fashioned" terminology or it's "just another summit book." Nothing could be further from the truth.
Hillary's enthusiasm for mountain climbing punctuates every page (literally; I don't think there's a page in the book that lacks an exclamation point).
He talks about the technicalities of climbing with ease and in accessible language, and he regards the mountains as beings in their own right, worthy of respect and awe.
Hillary is quite amusing - even when he's not intending to be - and I was pleased to read about the ascent in his words.(Bone to pick: how many WEEKS did you do pre-ascent training? And in all that time you couldn't take five minutes to teach Tanzing to use a camera to take your picture on top of Everest?)
really interesting account... a little slow but slow is OK for 250 pages.
It smelled musty and the lack of a paper cover and the black-and-white photographs promised a dull account.However, Hillary speaks plainly (and provides a glossary) so you get pulled right into his story that boils down to "When I grew up in New Zealand, I learned to climb mountains.
I don't think so!I used my imagination (which still remembers the IMAX film of the 1996 Everest climb and snippets of "Into Thin Air") and sometimes felt like I was right there with him.
I'm looking forward to reading more Everest accounts, the new Hillary love story that's out, and perhaps rereading Into Thin Air.
My obsession towards Mt. Everest and high mountains of the world started after watching the movie Everest(2015).
That followed scouring the internet for all sorts of information about the mountain and watching the movie again.
I had already formed a mental 3D picture of the mountain and surrounding areas.Then I wanted to know how they would have attacked the dangerous terrain for the very first time and the obvious thing to do was to hear it from the horse's mouth.This book is not a marvel of literature, but a thorough memoir of his expeditions which led up to the conquering of the summit in 1953.
Edmund Hillary's "High Adventure: The True Story of the First Ascent of Everest" is a bit like a Primus stove at high altitude. It's slow to get going and sputters along for a bit but once it really gets cooking everything is good.Hillary writes very simply but effectively of various climbs in the Himalayas, including the first ascent of Everest by himself and Tenzing Norgay. The Everest ascent itself is pretty riveting... the other climbs aren't quite as interesting, but why would they be?
Another factual account by the ones who did it first. Makes you realise what true mountaineering was done before all the equipment and the technology...a sport of the balls and of the heart!!!
Reading this account reminded me a lot of reading about astronaut Franklin Chang Díaz, who often states that we can’t reach great accomplishments without each other’s support.
There were dozens of people involved in this success for all humankind, and it speaks to the humility of these men, how never in this account is there a confrontation about who gets to reach the summit first.
And even though Hillary is seen as the first, and will probably always will be, the effort they endured together transcends the timing of their respective footsteps.
The account ends very abruptly and includes nothing about the aftermath.
A very Frank and straightforward account of the expedition to My Everest.
Hilary goes into great detail of the time spent up in the Himalayas making you almost feel part of his journey- day by day account of their trek , the challenges of crossing crevices, cutting steps, rationing loads, keeping warm , eating canned food and drinking hot lemon water.
You also get to learn a lot about climbing given Hilary goes very deep in describing all the nuances and jargons and equipments.A great journal of the first men to scale the Everest!
A great first hand account of Hillary's adventures in mountain-climbing.In different scope from other books I've read on the Everest 1953 summiting climb, this book is every bit a personal memoir.
If you are looking for more of a compresensive work on the expedition, expedition leader John Hunt's book, "The Ascent of Everest" is an in-depth account from the focus of the expedition as a whole.
My favorite quote from the book: "It is not necessary to find excuses for not climbing Everest - the mountain will supply these in abundance." -From Hillary's comments on the Swiss failure in '52
Hillary's matter of fact tale of his conquest of Everest, this is a straight ahead recounting of the three expeditions to Everest that finally ended in success in 1953. While well-written and fast-paced, the book suffers a bit from the lack of a wider view on the logistical and political machinations around the climb, but without a doubt offers some very fine writing about the hardships and everyday effort required.
Aaaah I just had to read it all really fast. It's crazy what magic a little "rhythm and breath" and a lot of hard work and training can make! Also the part about rafting on the air mattresses was kind of hysterical. You know going into reading this that this expedition's success was impressive, but now that I know a lot more of the detail behind all the preparation and work that went into it, I am even more impressed.
What I love the most about this book is how Hillary's passion for the mountains just leaps off the page. It shines bright and clear from every sentence. It's clear that he enjoyed so much just being on the mountains, watching a sunset or smelling the mountain air.
My third book on Everest this year (and my tenth overall!), but this one written by the first man to have climbed it.
I'm always fascinated by mountain climbing books, but this book stands out among the rest.
Hillary's expressive writing style is so engaging that I could feel his fears and his thrills as he described each obstacle and each accomplishment from the icefall to the summit to the descent.
Hillary truly seems to want his readers to gain a very real sense (albeit an obviously slight sense compared to true realities!) of the immensity and the scale of his and Tenzing's historic achievement.
The story is told matter-of-factly, which makes you read between the lines to figure out how much danger the climbers are really in. I enjoyed reading it in Sir Edmund Hillary's words, but if he had added a few descriptions of how he felt at times, it would have added to the story.
Great story, well told. Makes me jealous of the days when mountain climbers were explorers. They went places no one did. They had to find their way to the mountain before the could climb it.
It doesn't really make you want to climb the Everest , but it's a good realistic story which makes you feel the cold temperatures of the mountains.
What a great book about the first ascent of Mt Everest in 1953... truly a tale of adventure and danger... loved every minute and page of this book...
The attributes that got them to the top: average climbing skills, willing to go fast and hard!This will always be a classic mountaineering tale read for generations to come and Hillary's comedic and highly personal voice makes it an enjoyable 250 pages to read.Even if you're a climbing/adventure fan it can be dry at times and the author's autobiography 'Nothing Venture, Nothing Win' includes this account in much more concise terms as well as countless other brilliant and formidable tales....a tribute to discomfort:"Life was pretty grim when we settled down for the night.
[a lot of things that would make a hobbit squirm] But nothing seemed able to disturb Shipton (the Eric Shipton).
He couldn't have looked more contented in an easy chair at home in front of a cosy fire."
Great story of the historic climb of the world's highest peak by the famous climber himself Sir Edmund Hillary.
Having recently read Jon Krakauer's account "Into Thin Air" of the disastrous 1996 expedition up Everest, it's all the more impressive and meritorious that Hillary and Tenzing, plus John Hunt and the entire crew of climbers and sherpas that made the expedition possible, were able to climb the mountain with the primitive equipment and limited knowledge available at the time.Definitely an adventure story to read and reread!
The only criticism I have about this book is when he mentioned he never trusted science again, after a experimenting doctor who cleary made some mistake regarding Ed's condition (the doctor said Ed wasn't supposed to be alive in that particuarly moment according to his blood count and altitude).
He was quite hipocrytical there, because the same science played a vital role on this quest to the summit - the oxygen bottles.
I hope he had changed his mind about science in the following years.
It's a great book and a great story though.
I have read quite a few books on climbing and I found this one exceptional in several respects.
I would have given it 5 stars, but I realize that some people might consider the series of grand adventures in this book redundant.
I believe he writes honestly and it was easy for me to feel his emotions as they played out in the book.
I passed it on to a climbing buddy who also enjoyed it also and passed it on to another.
I must say that the recon two years before the summit was every bit as good of a story as the story of the first summit.
This was fascinating. Perhaps because of the modernization of mountaineering gear and the mobs of climbers on Everest each year, I was captivated by Hillary's memoir and the clear difficulty by which they forged a route and made their way up after so many previous unsuccessful attempts, in what we would now consider to be primative gear. All I wanted upon finishing this book was a warm fire and a hot cup of soup. Or, rather, to read about Hillary's next warm fire, hot cup of soup, and good night's sleep.
An interesting account of the years before the big climb. Truly amazing feat considering the equipment, clothing, O2 systems, etc. I will say that Hillary does not shy away from patting himself on the back, although he also not paint his accomplishments as extreme as he could. I enjoyed it, and it really gives a good description of how difficult it was, just establishing the various camps and getting all of the supplies up, having to cut hundreds of steps in the ice with and axe for all of the sherpas to use. Amazing feat.
“High Adventure” is Sir Edmund Hillary’s exciting account of the first successful summit of Mount Everest in 1953. Though the events are often dramatic and the accomplishments great, he tells the story in a rather humble, straight-forward manner. Despite this, the intensity and difficulty of the expedition come through clearly. At times, I suffered from a vertigo-like uneasiness just reading his account of their climb near the summit. I was left with great respect for Hillary, Tenzing, and the entire 1953 Everest team.
A truly passionate account of several mountaineering attempts in the Himalaya and of course, the first successful summit climb on Mt. Everest. Though at times, its difficult to even imagine what the terrain must feel like, the descriptions are detailed and filled with enthusiasm. What amazes me is Hillary's passion, bordering on the obsessive at times, for the snow-clad heights and the drive to get up each day to a new challenge at unimaginable altitudes. Makes me think he must be terribly unhappy spending any time at all at sea level!
It has been remarkable tale. No high words, no twisted analogies. Simple tale of how the ascent of Everest was. With his way of telling the story, visualization becomes more realistic.Another appreciable aspect I found about Edmund Hillary is his modesty. Since he met Tinzing Norgay, he talk about him in very high regards. Often in my eyes, Edmund commanded regards by making Tinzing look good.
I (along with the rest of the team) received this as a gift from my high school lacrosse coaches after winning the State Championships. Perhaps it was the feeling surrounding that victory, but I was swept away in the adventure and success of Sir Hillary's ascent. I would highly recommend as an inspirational tale or atleast an exciting story.
This is the exciting account by the man who was the first to summit Mt. Everest. He recounts his adventure and tells of the trials and travails he and his Sherpa, Tenzing, have along the way. I believe it was his first book, so he's not a polished author at this point but the story is so amazing that it pulls into the pages and onto the mountain with him and Tenzing.
