https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29248553-the-bungalow-mystery
Annie Haynes has moved from obscurity to every work in print so quickly that I hardly knew what to read first:• Should I continue to read the Inspector Stoddart books?• Should I introduce myself to Inspector Furnivall?• Or should I read one of her stand-alone novels?I dithered for a while but in the end I had to pick up The Bungalow Mystery, the first of those stand-alone books, because I loved the title, I loved the sound of the story, and because it was the first – I am told – the most obscure of all of Annie Haynes’ twelve novels.It proved to be a wonderfully entertaining mixture of sensation novel and golden age murder mystery.It was far from perfectly executed – it had extraordinary coincidences, ridiculous scenarios, and significant plot holes – but the story rolled forward with conviction, the writing was engaging, and so I had a lovely time reading.The murder came at the very start of the story.Dr Roger Lavington was new to his small town medical practice when he answered an urgent summons from the housekeeper of the reclusive neighbour he had never met.
What a treasure they are!England: The murder occurs during the beginning of the book when the housekeeper of Dr. Roger Lavington's next door neighbor comes asking for help; her master has been shot.
Soon after, a woman answering to her description is found dead in the wreckage of a train and so the matter is believed concluded.
Dr. Lavington's old friend, Sir James Courtney, was also in that train wreck and lost both of his legs.
Now a bitter cripple, he persuades Roger Lavington to move to his home in the country to care for him as his personal physician.
I like to read crime fiction beside fantasy and science fiction.
Today we still know Agatha Christie but who knows Annie Haynes.Born in 1865 she wrote a dozen crime novels until she died in 1929.I'm more than happy that her books are now available in digital format.I bought copies of all of them and then I had to decide which book to start with -stand-alone novel or Inspector Furnivall or Inspector Stoddart.I decided to go for a stand-alone novel.The Bungalow Mystery is not perfect.
But there is something in Annie Haynes' writing which kept me on reading.The story is set between 1900 and before the Great War.I like the depiction of the scene and te description of the characters ad their motifs.Now I look forward to discover the rest of her books.
The writing is a little old fashioned and the plot moves along quite slowly compared to writing these days. However, it is an interesting mystery - somewhat complicated. A nice ending makes it all worthwhile.
Intriguing English cozy from the 1920s.
This new 2016 edition features an introduction by crime fiction historian Curtis Evans.Dr Roger Lavington is summoned by his next-door neighbors maid, who has just found her master lying dead.
After checking to be certain he can do nothing for the man, he sends the maid for the police, but while waiting for their arrival, he finds a woman hiding behind the drapery.
If, like me, you start to tear out your hair, then it probably isn't.Haynes was a fairly prolific writer, and many of her mysteries have been re-released.
I hate to give up with just the first story, but I'm certain I can't read another like this!
The plot devolved around mistaken identity and incomplete knowledge, a train crash in which the murder suspect is thought to have been killed, a policeman who works on the case long after he has been taken off it, a vindictive wife who wants a killer brought to justice, and a central character who muddies the waters by giving the wrong advice.There is at least one change of narrative voice and so a number of points of view are presented.
Aah,that was a tasty bit of mystery. so art nouveau.I enjoyed the story, The characters and the writing style. To tell a story in a conversational way is charming and understandable . I look forward to reading more of her stories.
Decent golden age mystery that kept my attention.
Interesting peek back in time.It took a bit of time to get used to the extremely proper dialogue. The story was strange but intriguing from the start.
Who killed the scoundrel next door? An old-fashioned mystery and frankly a little slow.
My first Haynes book. Captivating and enjoyable.
