https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4803.The_Log_from_the_Sea_of_Cortez
On March 11, 1940, John Steinbeck and his good friend, the marine biologist Ed Ricketts (who served as Steinbeck's inspiration for the character of "Doc" in Cannery Row and Sweet Thursday) cast off from Monterey Bay with a chartered crew of four aboard a 75-foot purse seiner christened the Western Flyer.
We stopped in many little harbors and near barren coasts to collect and preserve the marine invetrebraes of the littoral."The expedition concluded on April 20, 1940 and the following year, Sea of Cortez: A Leisurely Journal of Travel and Research was published on the heels of Steinbeck's Pulitzer Prize winning novel The Grapes of Wrath.
It would be so lushly beautiful, whether they're communing over (many) beers in Doc's laboratory in Monterey, or sailing into shallow wade pools along the Gulf of Mexico or having one of their four-day long parties, where nobody went to bed except for "romantic purposes." I know that there is a movie version of Cannery Row, but it wouldn't have John Steinbeck in it.
Now, you like Steinbeck, but are still unsure if you want to read this nonfiction account of tide pool specimen-gathering?
Steinbeck and Ricketts portray an existence and a philosophy that seem impossibly engaged, impossibly full, and it isn't long before you're there on the boat beside them, a can of beer in one hand and a dip net in the other, peering into blue shallows in search of strange and beautiful creatures.It's bohemian (two guys charter a boat to go tidepooling around the Gulf of California, mostly for the hell of it), but rigorous (specimens are tediously labeled, filed, described).
Despite one of them being a professional in the strictest sense, both Ricketts and Steinbeck are the best kind of amateurs, seeking knowledge and adventure for the pure joy and love they find in them.
I enjoyed getting to know John Steinbeck and his friends.
(Although, I will admit, there was one chapter that I did doze through.) Yes, it is interesting that we spend so much money on health care and so much money on war to kill us.
It is also interesting that he wrote down these ideas around 1940 and so much of them seemed written in the present time.I know very little about marine biology so pictures of these sea creatures they collected would really have helped.
I love Steinbeck's straight-laced sense of humor that just permeates this book.
It seemed beautiful in this book.I appreciate the afterword about Ed Ricketts, his marine biologist friend.
I skim read to the end to see if the log ever changes into something that has a structure - or a point.It may be that I am not in the right mood for this book, but from everything I have read, I get the impression that to be in the right frame of mind to read this book I would have to be on that boat, with a beer (not the first of the day), and develop a sudden liking for pointless meandering, unsubstantiated general philosophising, and killing things just to collect them.
Plus he attended Stanford (a decade or so after my grandparents and sixty years before moi), although he did not finish.
For years I have devoured whatever I could find from Steinbeck (whose position in the library is right next to another great writer of the West, Wallace Stegner, but not far enough away from another author who represents the lowest form of literary composition ...a woman named Steele).
But I held off reading this book for decades.
I suspected it might read like a boring textbook on marine life featuring "Doc" aka Ed Ricketts, puttering around lagoons and tide pools.
It's another Steinbeck classic ...
I was especially taken with the last section found in the appendix that honored the life and death of Steinbeck's great friend Ed Ricketts. What a wonderful tribute to a person who meant so much to so many in that part of the country. The entire book was certainly an enjoyable and satisfying read. It was good to hear this voice again.
I enjoyed how Steinbeck added his bohemian philosophy much like a few other books have done.
After finishing the book and staring at it for a time, daydreaming, I suddenly got this tremendous urge to pack in my typewriter and bedroll, kiss the loved ones goodbye and head for the Gulf of California; just to relive what the crew of the Western Flyer experienced; and perhaps, induce a few experiences of my own.
If you like to take to the sea, road, or air, in an adventure book, I highly recommend this awesome read.
A well written book on a terribly boring subject. Why Steinbeck thought this was a good use of his skills is beyond me. The prologue ("About Ed Ricketts") is at least somewhat amusing, though hardly compelling. If Ed were a friend of mine, it would have been fascinating. But Ed is (was) not a friend mine, nor are the lobsters and starfish which Steinbeck describes with inexplicable fascination. The book contains some philosophy, which might be interesting and challenging for someone whose intellectual development fossilized at Herbert Hoover's Republicanism. Today, it's just a verbose curio.
Anyone with even a minor interest in marine biology, or the more likely interest in Ed Ricketts (see "Cannery Row" and "Sweet Thursday"),or a personal weakness for tooling around in boats with friends (see "The Wind In the Willows" Kenneth Grahame - Ratty to Mole: "Believe me, my friend, there is nothing - absolutely nothing - half so much worth doing as simply messing about in boats.")will like this book.
It's more like "The Kon-Tiki Expedition" by Thor Heyerdahl, in fact, I recommend that book to anyone who likes this one.John Steinbeck was a fascinating man, not just an amazing writer.
Steinbeck the writer and Steinbeck the marine biologist are one and the same - and this is one of his best books.
This book was so boring.
I was not going to sit and read how they collected sea specimens along the coast of baja, so i skipped over those parts, which were boring anyway.
Also Ed's life at the beginning of the book was boring, but I also didn't like his collecting cats to kill.
About all I got out of it was enjoying his speaking with the natives when on shore, but those tales were not enough to keep me interested.
I wanted a sea adventure like Paddle to the Amazon, which I could not put down.
Oh, tell me that he has other good books since I have them all.
Was just reading some of the 2-star reviews.
But there were also moments where if it wasn't Steinbeck I would have thrown 1 star at it!Let's put this in a nutshell - or maybe I should say "seashell" - ha ha.
In all fairness, the forward in this 1995 addition says that the book really was a combination of ideas and daily records from both Steinbeck and his good companion on this trip, marine biologist Ed Ricketts.
I read some woman's review that she found Steinbeck's honest portrayal of his friend, "appalling" for its openness.
Yes, it meanders some, and yes, I felt as if I was ODing on testosterone from time to time (he edited his wife out of the text, though she was supposedly actually there on the trip), but there is so much gorgeous writing, I didn't care.We felt rather as God would feel when, after all the preparation of Paradise, all the plannings for eternities of joy, all the making and tuning of harps, the street-paving with gold, and the writing of hosannas, at last He let in the bleacher customers and they looked at the heavenly city and wished to be again in BrooklynAnd now the wind grew stronger and the windows of houses along the shore flashed in the declining sun.
I am quickly becoming just as in love with Steinbeck as a creative nonfiction writer as I am with him as a fiction writer.
After all, it consists mainly of Steinbeck and a small crew including Ed Ricketts (the basis for Doc from Cannery Row) wading through tide pools and collecting and documenting animal specimens.
The book ends with a heartwarming mini-biography / eulogy for Ricketts, Steinbeck's dear friend who was killed by a train in 1948.
If you are a fan of Steinbeck, you will love this book.
I loved Cannery Row, and wanted to read this book for a long time, and finally was motivated to do so when I read that the Western Flyer, the charter boat for this expedition, was this year in dry dock in Port Townsend, WA.
I went to see the barnacle-covered boat, and picked up a copy of the book.A few things surprised me about this: Steinbeck makes almost no reference at all to himself, his wife, or the biologist Ricketts, in the log.
Richard Astro's introduction helps set the stage for the log by providing a lot of background information about Steinbeck and Ricketts and their relationship.
I thank the streets of Brooklyn for my discarded copy of "The Log of the Sea of Cortez" which enthralled me with John Steinbeck's homespun wisdom, his deep love of humanity, and his trust in the balance of things, even as he sees so much of what's wrong with the world. Not quite memoir, not quite scientific journal, Steinbeck's recounting of an expedition to collect samples of sea life in Mexico is rich with philosophy while the appendix must be one of the most bromantic eulogies in American letters.
We say it for so many things, but...: Surprisingly relevant.
We have definitions of good qualities and of bad; not changing things, but generally considered good and bad throughout the ages and throughout the species.
Of the good, we think always of wisdom, tolerance, kindliness, generosity, humility; and the qualities of cruelty, greed, self-interest, graspingness, and rapacity are universally considered undesirable.
And yet in our structure of society, the so-called and considered good qualities are invariable concomitants of failure, while the bad ones are the cornerstones of success.
what i do remember is writing a horrible paper about it for my one and only biology class and using the made up phrase "evolutionary continuum" in said paper, which my brother rightly pointed out, is the most ridiculous and redundant pairing of two words to ever be put down on paper.
therefore i give it an "it was ok" with the fair warning that it is not your typical steinbeck or shall i say, it does not fit into the steinbeckian evolutionary continuum.
Had to read this for an ecology course on the Sea of Cortez. In the class we talked a lot about observational science and used Rickett's and Steinbeck's descriptions of the marine life they encountered on this trip as examples. Now-a-days scientists often quaff at the idea of including observational data in their research, but I feel that these descriptions help the reader get a good sense of how things appeared to the writer at the time. Science shouldn't be just all data and numbers. Plus it makes the reading a lot more enjoyable.
Appendix about Ricketts is an essential bonus of the book. I'm unsure who (between Steinbeck and Ricketts) contribute more to this book. I'm with them both without reservation. I enjoy the lengthy details (well, I was a marine biologist student) to tackle my memory and loosely narrated mystic tales to feed my imagination. But enlightening the mind (without losing humor) is what I treasure the most that make this book unique.
I dont know why, but this book captivates me. Maybe because I long to be on a vessel wandering the coast....in the past, right before the huge explosion that has so populated and devastated the western seaboard. Seeing Monteray before the big hotels went up must of been a real hoot too...Especially after reafding Cannery Row..Steinbeck just nails it.
I'm beginning to think that Steinbeck's nonfiction is his more enjoyable to me (much in the same way that Goya's sketches feel more authentic than his highly-regarded paintings). He has a way of going back and forth between descriptions of the natural world and the corresponding lessons for mankind--while alluding to a common substance in between.
An effortless read if you have any interest in marine biology. Steinbeck's nimble prose weaves between social commentary, biological observations, and rollicking adventure. If you enjoy this book, try Durrell's "My Family and Other Animals."
The true philosophy of Steinbeck. You love Steinbeck? You want to know him? Read The Log from the Sea of Cortez. Unforgettable.
Alternating between rants about the state of the world, observations about the human communities they encountered along the way, and descriptions of some of the creatures they collected, Steinbeck's Log is more of a personal journal than a researcher's log, although the original version did include a comprehensive taxonomic list of the collections.
Also included in the version I read is a memoir about Ed Ricketts in the back of the book.
A very good video on the Log and the boat restoration project can be found on this website: http://westernflyer.org
An introspective look at man and how it connects us to the ocean.My resolution for the year was to travel more, so I thought this book would kickstart my motivation.
As Steinbeck chronicles his discoveries, he makes comparisons to how we function as humans.
It was meant as a journal for scientific discovery.
But without that prior knowledge, I could see how this book could seem like a struggle for the average reader.
This book might seem like a chore, but I found it to be very rewarding when I finished.Lovers of science and Steinbeck will love this.
And I think it is wonderful because it is told with so much love and respect.
For the reader it feels like a journey that John is thrilled to be on and equally happy to share.
It feels a bit like a love letter to his friend Ed Ricketts.
Cannery Row just moved higher up my TBR list!I have become a huge fan of John Steinbeck over the past few weeks and each book I read solidifies that more for me.
His books make me feel like I know him -- and I like the man I know.
I've spent the last hour and a half speed-reading this book to its end.
I'm unable to say much good about this book.
Further, it demands extensive knowledge of marine biology that I, and anyone who isn't fervently interested in the topic, lack.
Because I lacked this knowledge I will not give this book a review in stars.
In the same way that an extensive study of quantum mechanics belongs in the hands of a scientist, this, to a less degree, belongs in the hands of a marine biologist.
Head back to 1940 and join John Steinbeck and Ed Ricketts. The two are on a journey to the beaches of the Gulf of California. The trip can be found in the book "Sea of Cortez" This is the log that tells the whole journey.
