https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/57277.Flint
All of these were considered atypical westerns for their time, as the core of the storylines dealt less about the range but more about family, how they cared for one another, their neighbors, and just causes.
As much as I loved the TV shows, I'd never actually 'read' a western.
Several of my friends over the years had suggested that I read Louis L'Amour and so I chose "Flint" to be my first foray into the western genre.
But when an all-out range war erupts, Flint chooses to help Nancy Kerrigan, a local rancher.
Most of these Louis L'Amour westerns are like Pringles in print. Salty, crunchy, and virtually identical. But they're fun to eat, and once in awhile you get a hankerin'...
My favorite L'Amour book ever. I think I've read it 4 times. When I was a kid it appealed to my sense of adventure, the smart woman, the mysterious man who is wise and silent. Now I enjoy it because it showcases the many different types of people in the world all around us. And yes because of the awesomness of the man called Flint.
A life threatening illness makes Mr. Kettleman leave his wife and business affairs to head back out west. He is looking for a place to die, but soon finds out that he is soon to be hauled into a new conflict.A conflict in which he is not sure he maybe able to finish. A great book, great writings and musings about what this man called "Flint" all stands for. A true western that is hard to put down.
This hit the spot. Not the best L'amour I've read, I felt like the whole land-rights storyline was a bit *shrugs shoulders* but I loved the Flint character and the drama of having this dying guy travelling back to his hidey-hole to die with his books and horses.
If you are the type of reader to pay attention to lists, you will often find this book listed among the top 25 all-time best Western novels.
He gets caught up in an all-out range war, and doesn’t want his rich and powerful identity known so he chooses to go by the name of his old friend Flint.There are typical western themes and scenes in this book but there is also quite a bit of interesting perspectives that you might encounter from a railroad financier such as land claims, legal battles over property and the like.
This was a traditional, classic Western, and I enjoyed the portrayal of the scenery, the lava strewn mesas, the endless blue skies, the scent of the sage as your horse keeps you company in the painted desert, combining with the real men, the real Western girls who you admire nearly as much as your horse, and the timeless truth that a man has to do what a man has to do.
I'd like to see a revival of The Western if only to remind people that seemingly simple storytelling is an art in itself, and it is through the Western that this tradition is best carried.
This was a twist on a Louis L'Amour classic. This man actually made a name for himself in the East before heading out West. Turns out, though, that he went went because he was dying and wanted a place to die in peace. The West was not the place for Flint to find peace.As with every L'Amour story, this one pulled me in and kept me there all the way through.
5 starsVery good Western novel. Excited to read more books from Louis L'Amour.
Classic Louis L'Amour book. Flint a strong character who teaches the lesson of standing up to trouble instead of running away from it.
Summary:James T.
Kettleman has been diagnosed with fatal cancer.
He has been unhappily married to a terrible, deceiving wife, Lottie.
Writing: This is the first Louis L'Amore book I've ever read.
L'amores writing is definitely unique-in a good way.
It was an entirely new concept.
Perspectives:In this book, there is multiple points of views, and surprisingly, it gets confusing.
With the help of my dad, I caught up every time I was confused.
Overall:This was an enjoyable book.
I loved the new genre, giving I've never explored the old west.
It is great for people who love a little action, and the old west.
I had a roommate in law school who read Louis L'Amour books.
This guy has written HUNDREDS of books, all about cowboys.This was my first.
He became a great gunman and prizefighter, went east and became as wealthy as Rockefeller, married a woman who tried to have him killed, and was diagnosed with cancer.
Now, he returns to New Mexico to die alone, but finds himself drawn into a land dispute that involves a beautiful woman, a sneaky business rival from back East, and a drygulcher named Buckdun.This shit is like a romance novel for men.
I will probably read more from this guy, but I refuse to feel guilty about it.
It was alright.
My problem with this author is my head screams for more development.
It's like only the facts maam, and some are just stated like truths that don't feel true.
Just because It's stated doesn't make it so.
A flag waves in my head, but there is no convincing evidence why things are the way the author said they are.
But I guess to crank them out as many as there are there is little time to answer all the questions.
Feels kind of like guy harliquins.
I guess that really is all it is.
I was around eleven years old and bored. All my Dad had were history books and westerns so I randomly picked out this one. I have to say that this book started my true love of reading. The scenery was amazing. The writing took my young imagination to places that before reading this book I didn't know was possible. For that alone this book gets 5 stars. This book is a true western but you don't have to be a fan of western novels to enjoy it
Absolutely a delightful story that provides great escape with just enough intrigue to make the pages turn. The underlying concept in this story is the question of what the character will do with six months to live. I couldn't put this one down until it was finished. I love the western genre because it makes such great use of archetypes and chivalry. This is an excellent example of L'Amour's storytelling ability.
I'm glad I read a Louis L'Amour. I'm not a Western fan, but L'Amour is the guru of Western writing. I really liked Flint, the main character. He grew, changed, yet remained the same hard western man. I did not like how L'Amour shifts from one character or place to another. He switches without any transition or movement. Suddenly you are somewhere else. I also really liked the gun fights; Flint is one tough dude. He just shoots and he's not afraid of anything, including dying.
I promised my husband that I would let him choose my next book, and of course, he chose a Louis L'Amour. I'm glad he did. I had a blast reading it. I loved Flint. I think it's my favorite L'Amour book so far. He's amazingly tough and also smart (handsome too!) I liked many of the characters and loved all the sub-plots, flashbacks, etc. It's a very engaging reading from the first page on. In fact, I stayed up late and woke up early so that I could finish it in a day or two.
Everyone has their favorite Louis Lamour story. The Sacketts and nearly anything with Kilkenny just suck me in. Kerbouchard and the Walking Drum. Jeez. The man could write. In the end, you gotta go with the classics though. How many times as a kid did I wonder what exactly was the power that L.L. had over my father, and then.... Flint. Good times.
Another favorite book by Americas greatest Western writer. A fast paced hard hitting story of a wealthy financier (James T. Kettleman) suffering uncurable cancer who heads West to die alone, but gets tied up in a range war and decides to use his wealth and his gun to help save a local rancher (Nancy Kerrigan).
One of the best westerns ever written. About a wealthy eastern man whose wife and father-in-law (who know nothing of his past as an outlaw)try to kill him. Learning from his doctor that he is dying anyway, he sells off his investments, disapears, and heads to a hideout in the desert where he expects to spend his last few months.
Many of Louis L'Amour's characters are rugged, intelligent, confident men in their prim that try to avoid trouble but trouble always finds them. I never get tired of reading L'Amour's stories with this kind of scenario. Flint is no exception and could very well be one of the best of its kind.
My stepfather populated a 3 foot shelf of L'Amour books, and so I read them all. Flint stood out as the best, and that's saying something, as L'Amour was good in all his short novels.
Generally, though, she prefers Zane Grey to Louis L'Amour, perhaps because her parents used to read Zane Grey to each other.Her only comment on this book was that it was violent, as many westerns are.And she was right.The real question with me is not so much whether there is violence in a book, but whether it is justified or just gratuitous?
Made me wonder what the other westerns to make the list were.SPOILER - I was surprised by Flint's reconciliation with one of the other characters, and several times, of his forgiveness for the wife who tried to murder him.Favorite quotes:On the idea of men of action also being readers: "An educated man demands his right to information, for example.
Kettleman is an extremely interesting man who has memories of his mysterious past with a man named Flint who helped bring him up and taught him everything he knows.
He wants to return to those roots that he left so long ago with his only father figure Jim Flint.
Flint had died early on in James's life but he had already taught him everything he needed to know.
The book only gets better from there on out going through a series of events that end up bringing back New York ties to Alamitos, New Mexico.
Along the way he realizes that he is being hunted by some men from his past.
He tries to escape these men by going to a hideout in the vast lava beds of the west, but he realizes he can’t escape them.
During this time, he finds out that he didn’t actually have a terminal illness, so he regains his will to live and be free.
He ends up beating all the men from his past and basically goes and lives a happy life.
There is a very good balance of background information, action, and even a little bit of a love story, so overall it is a very well-rounded book.
Married to a gold digger who plots to have him murdered and diagnosed with cancer the man known as Kettleman carefully slips away from his eastern life and heads west to die.
Once in New Mexico territory Kettleman takes up the name of the gunslinger who raised him, Flint, and soon despite his best efforts of avoiding civilization is drawn into a range war where his skills as a gunfighter and brawler bring him unwanted attention.Gunsmoke, fisticuffs, wild horses, and a pretty gal all find there way into another good L'Amour book.
Never read a western before, picked this up at random at the secondhand store, figured I would try a new genre.
He gets winds up in the middle of a land grab deal, and he fights for the good guys.
I wasn't sure if it would hold my interest, but the plot picked up after the first forty pages.
Nice also that when there are gunfights, you don't get details on blood and limbs getting blown off.
No profanity either, this was a different time for writing!Well, this was my first intro to western writing, I may raid the secondhand store for another.
The storyline is very compelling.
An orphaned child was found by an outlaw named Flint.
The outlaw had compassion on the child and financed his boarding school education for a number of years.
Flint was killed in an ambush, and the child was present and witnessed it.
Now - years later, this child is a grown and very successful businessman from New York City who has been diagnosed with cancer and has come west to die.
He takes on the identity of his former mentor, Flint, and tries to help some local ranchers take on a wealthy land baron.
Years before the book starts, under another name, Jim had been an abandoned child cold and hungry.
When disaster strikes, he emerges a legend at only 17 and flees east.Years later, Jim is very wealthy but dying and someone is trying to hurry things along.
Having thwarted one murder attempt, he comes up with a plan: Return to the west and die quietly and alone in the Flint's old hiding place.
His plan would have work except there's a girl, a land grab, a range war, a hired gun, and (after all this is a western) a really cool horse.
I really enjoyed the story and the characters in this one. However, at times it was a little confusing and the ending was too sudden. Im aware most Louis L'Amour novels are short but comparing this one to my favorite L'Amour novel Comstock Lode I had to give it 3 stars in comparison. Nevertheless it was a fun quick read and I recommend it.
