https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/858719.Clifford_the_Big_Red_Dog
5 ★'s EVERY TIME!
When I was little I loved EVERYTHING Clifford!
I remember wishing I could have a dog as big as he was :) You cannot go wrong with any of the books in the Clifford the Big Red Dog series.
I have read pretty much ALL of the book's, but there is no way I'm gonna go through and rate all of them individually.
The books are addicting and impossible not to fall in love with Clifford and all of his pals.
Clifford is such a BIG adorable goofy dog and it's no wonder why this is a classic!
Did you ever get over the original despair of learning that a big, red dog like Clifford was unattainable?
This has all of the ingredients of the ideal book for me:1) It is about dogs2) The dog is RED3) There is a long family history of loving this book. Behold, my dad:So what happened? Why didn't I loooove it? I think those three factors just resulted in the perfect storm. And I am easily prone to over-stimulation. Maybe I just need to wait until I'm a bit older. Maybe I just need to wait until I'm sitting on the can.
Did anyone forget about their favorite big red dog Clifford. If you never read it when you were a toddler, then I ask you, Why. I loved reading Clifford books. 👍
A classic kids book, and a must read.
This book is all about expectations--Clifford does all the same things that a normal dog does, but on a different scale, with different consequences (for example, he likes to chase cats, which means he scares a lion at the zoo).
The constant reversal/twisting of expectations is what makes the book delightful, and makes me not mind reading it aloud again and again.
(The ethics of the commercialization of kids' stories through products is somewhat debatable, but I don't mind doing a little bit for my daughter--it helps bring the stories to life.)
great book...easy read. Compelling story about a very large animal-I think it was a dog and its owner Emily Elizabeth. I did't know a dog could grow so big. Does anyone know what type of dog Clifford is? One problem I have with the story is it never explains how Emily cleans up after him- that would be one big pile of stuff!
I sure did love this big red dog growing up.
I loved learning to read with these books. Clifford the Big Red dog helped me love dogs even more.
I loved the Clifford series as a child!
I loved the idea of a big dog.
It had such an impact that when I was so fortunate as an older child to get to pick out a dog and breed from my parents - my final choice was between an Irish Setter (red) or a Newfoundland (big).
I went big with the Newfoundland, and have never gone back from the breed.
I'm not nearly as cool as Emily Elizabeth was, but I sure do love my dogs.
I often think of this book when enjoying time with my current large dog, Buddy.
Now that's what I call a big dog. It's the size of a house. I'm just glad I don't have to feed him, but walking him would be interesting. All in all, I think it's a nice funny and children's book.
Clifford the big red dog by Bridwell Norman Genre: Comedy, Humor, Reading level: P-2 grade Format: good General fiction, animal stories Clifford the big red dog is a book about a girl named Elizabeth and her dog named Clifford. Elizabeth talks about how she has a big dog compared to the other people around her neighborhood and how she enjoys playing with Clifford. The book is also about Clifford doing tricks and how the dog isn’t perfect in how he chases cars and cats. As I was reading the book
Clifford the big red dog by Bridwell Norman Genre:	Comedy, Humor, 		Reading level: P-2 grade	Format: good General fiction, animal stories Clifford the big red dog is a book about a girl named Elizabeth and her dog named Clifford.
Elizabeth talks about how she has a big dog compared to the other people around her neighborhood and how she enjoys playing with Clifford.
This book can be used in the classroom by creating a lesson where the students can create a pet of their choice and make the pet big with their own story.
A sweet and cute story about friendship. Clifford is a fun, lovable, and goofy big red dog.
I LOVE CLIFFORD! WHO COULDN'T LOVE HIM? HE IS A BIG RED TALKING DOG!
too many characters
Had fun reading this to my 2 year old. A great book for youngsters with beautiful illustrations and an easy to follow story.
This was a books that I enjoyed as a very young reader and I enjoyed reading it aloud to my niece.
Book from my childhood. Nice memories. Intriguing pictures. An all-round must read for kids.
AWESOME BOOK
The plot just didn't hold my attention.
One of the better novels that I have ever read. It has so many clear, and simple details. Overall, if you are looking for a quick, and easy read to pass the time. This book is for you.
The quality of the writing was pleasing and my little cousin enjoyed the pictures.PlotThe plot tells how Emily talks about her dog, Clifford.
My little cousin loved how the pictures went with the words so she could see the plot.CharacterizationEmily starts out saying good things about her dog, Clifford.
She also talks about how clifford placed second in the dog show.
It was perfect for my little cousin.Impacts of the SettingThis story takes place in a town.
In all, it is a really good book.Thematic connectionsThe thematic connection is love.
Even though Clifford is a troublesome dog, Emily Elizabeth still loves him.
Clifford is one of the biggest red dog that you will ever read about.
In this fantasy book of Clifford you will meet what kind of dog he is and the games that he enjoys playing.
Many young readers will find what sort of character Clifford really is and will enjoy it.
First and second grade readers would enjoy reading this simple book of a big red dog.
There is so much that could go along with this book besides the activities that Clifford enjoys doing but also he reacts to certain things that the children could identify while it is being read to them.
I love reading novels to my children, especially when they are ones that promote more reading to my kids, because they relate to something that they already know and enjoy- like a popular kid's TV show.
The ending in each of these Clifford stories were abrupt and sudden, and some of the things that Emily E.
and Clifford were doing just didn't make since (like playing with bear cub?).
I love the show, they are thought out and well done; however, I felt like a few pages had been taken out each of the stories so they were all incomplete.
I also read this book to my little sister.
I like this book and the other Clifford books Norman Bridwell wrote because they aren't all about things that are so unrealistic, except for the fact that the dogs talk to the humans and the size of Clifford.
Amanda liked this book because Emily, Clifford's owner, talked about all of the things she likes to do with Clifford.
My sister, including me, agreed it would be cool to have a dog that you could talk to and so big that you could ride him to school.
I sometimes wonder at what the story was behind this book. How was it the author came up with such a monstrously huge dog as the pet for a little girl. I think sometimes that every child at some point wishes they had a pet that would be loyal and fun and also a protector from whatever bullies plague them. I think we love Clifford because he embodies so many traits of what makes the 'perfect pet.' Whatever the reason, Clifford is fun even after reading about him to my children for the millionth time.

"I hate Clifford the Big Red Dog. There’s seven books about Narnia that cover the birth and death of a nation, and mice with swords and a lion who’s a god.
They did it in seven books.
There’s fifty books about Clifford the Big Red Dog and they all tell the exact same story: Look how big this dog is!
That’s the whole book!
Here’s how big he was at the fire house!
Here’s how big he is at Thanksgiving!’ Who gives a shit!
You just drew him big!
It should be ‘Look how big I drew the dog in this book!
Clifford, the big red dog, is probably one of the most loved and recognizable children's book character. He is lovable, and like them, has trouble fitting in as he makes his way through life. His person, Emily Elizabeth, loves him and the Clifford books subtly send positive messages about caring, loyalty, friendship, and responsibility. In this first book, Emily, introduces the reader to her dog, Clifford, and traces the ups and downs of life raising a jumbo size dog. Even though Clifford is fifty, the stories have a timelessness that still interest today's children.
Clifford the Big Red Dog was most certainly an adventure to read, one that i am sorry to say must come to a conclusion. It was truly inspirational to read a novella covering the topic of overcoming adversity based on ones size alone, something very underdiscussed in literature. HOWEVER i must say that i found the authors basic use of language and imagery to be quite trite, and while used enticingly, i regretfully say i'm unlikely to partake again. 4/5 Stars
I love the Clifford books. They teach perspective and compassion to little children who can't even yet read. Besides the fact that I believe dogs are a gift from God. Clifford has heart so he is, most appropriately red. How that is shown is always clever and creative. I would buy the whole series for my grandchildren.
