https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1270379.The_Machiavellians

One of the greatest books on political theory one can have the pleasure of reading, elucidating the Machiavellian realist or amoral analysis of politics. Both an analysis of it's chief figures, their theories and a contrast of the "politics as wish" as represented by Dante. This should be in the curriculum of all political theory/philosophy/science classes, it's brevity and clarity are to be envied.
It is a long tough book but worth it.
Excellent book, especially interesting are the sections on Pareto and Sorel.
Burnham instead wants Machiavelli to be understood as the exposer of demagogues and that his way of viewing politics is instead a tool to prevent tyranny, rather than a tool to establish it:“In any case, whatever may the desires of most men, it is most certainly against the interests of the powerful that the truth should be known about political behaviour.
Burnham argues that any Machiavellian therefore needs to understand democracy not as the rule of the people, but as the possibility for oppositions to the powers that be to be formed.
I was introduced to Burnham years ago with his "Suicide of the West" which is a better book but this one is importan too.From Amazon:It is scandalous that this book should be out of print, for it is without a doubt the best primer on political science ever written.
Together, these thinkers represent, according to Burnham, the Machiavellian tradition in political thought.
Machiavellians, Burnham tells us, regard politics as a science devoted to describing facts as they really are, not as one may wish them to be.In a certain sense, I can understand why this book is out of print.
Though his name has popped up in my readings for years I had not until recently read James Burnham. When this was recommended to me by the anarchist Keith Preston I decided to finally give it a go.I was not disappointed. It is one of the few books I've read that deals with Sorel in any detail. In addition it's got a really fascinating section on Pareto, another oft-mentioned writer I've just never got around to reading.
7/20
Very interesting, looks at a few different authors including an obscure work by Dante (yes that Dante) which combines both demonology and political science.
Ένα εξαιρετικά επικίνδυνο βιβλίο. Η προσέγγιση των ιδεών που πραγματεύεται απαιτεί από τον αναγνώστη μεγάλη προσοχή και κριτική σκέψη. Κατά τη γνώμη μου δεν θα πρέπει να είναι ένα από τα πρώτα βιβλία πολιτικής φιλοσοφίας που αποφασίζει να διαβάσει κάποιος.
After discussing Machiavelli, Burnham moves forward a several centuries to discuss lesser known political thinkers of the 19th and early 20th centuries, names familiar but not often read: Mosca (theory of the ruling class), Sorel (myth and violence), Michaels (iron law of oligarchy), and Pareto (famous for several things, but here about elites and beliefs).
Each of these thinkers, early practitioners of political science as a discipline, looks at the stark realities of politics.
Burnham's argues that only by understanding how politics actually works can we preserve a measure of freedom, and his point convinces.
Burnham's work is a sort of superior modern update to Machiavelli's The Prince. It is superior in the sense that it presents Machiavelli's own ideas, along with the ideas of many other Machiavellian thinkers, with added interpretation, examples, comparative history, context, and so on.If one seeks to understand politics and power - either academically, to further personal aims, or just to cultivate a sense of 'political self-defense' - then understanding Machiavellian thought is mandatory. This book is the best resource I've yet found on that.
I listened to the audiobook version (a checkout from my local library) of this in my car, while driving, so I'll preface by saying that my attention wasn't entirely focused on what was being said. However, when I was paying attention, half the time I was exclaiming "what?!" or "yep" or "oh my god" as I drew parallels between the behavior described in the text and the present social and political worlds. This book is on my to-buy list now as I want to go back and really read the book.
An extremely well-written book on Machiavellism, a scientific theory of politics. Starting from Machiavelli, this school of thought included people like Mosca, Sorel, Michels and Pareto. This books provides a good overview of their ideas and compiles a theory based on a combination of these thinkers. I really enjoyed reading this book.
