https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43930.Gone_for_Good
When I first started reading "Gone for Good" by my favourite author Harlan Coben I had to put it down as I just couldn't get into it, however having picked it up again a few days later I fully realised that it was ME and in NO WAY the book!
I wish I could give this more than 5 stars - Harlan just keeps on coming with fantastic books and plot lines - I don't know where he gets them from - but wow!
this is definitely one of my favourite by Harlan (and I think I say that every time haha!).
HOLY FREAKIN MOLY! This book was beyond superb. I can't even find the words for it. Phenomenal! Coben holds your interest from the first to the last word. Every chapter revealed another layer that was peeled, revealing some startling discovery. Absolutely one of my favorite novels by Coben. He is by far, the best author around. Highly recommend this novel!!! Get it and read it! NOW!!!!!!! (You won't regret it)
GONE FOR GOOD has so many surprising twists and turns to make it another most enjoyable read by HARLAN COBEN which gets a 4.5 star rating from me!I really like this authors writing style and his dialogue is terrific throughout this novel.
I found that it was so entertaining and fast-paced that I didn't even want to guess the outcome even though I can now see that we were given a few clues.
Cover, title and synopsis did not come into play on this read.To wrap it up it was an entertaining, enjoyable, quick and easy, fast-paced, and interesting mystery with a very satisfying ending.
Yes, I did it again.
I am addicted.
It's like crack.
or the crack of an ass.
I can feel the damage being done to my brain as I read page after implausible page and I wince at phrase after ham-handed phrase but still I keep going.
As McDonalds is to one's arteries so is Coben to ones brain.
What is the cranial equivalent of an oxygen tank and an electric wheel chair, and a long day spent drooling through the aisles at Wal-mart?
That is what Coben is, what he does to me.
God, I hate myself.
God, I hate myself.
"Three days before her death, my mother told me these weren't her last words, but they were pretty close that my brother was still alive." Gone for Good is not so differrent from Tell No One. I was astounded how these books started off the same with the main character making an assumption that the death person is still alive. While Tell No One packs with action and gutwrenching scenes, Gone for Good is full of drama and heartbreaking stories. I enjoyed Gone for Good since the first few chapters
Gone for Good is not so differrent from Tell No One. I was astounded how these books started off the same with the main character making an assumption that the death person is still alive.
While Tell No One packs with action and gutwrenching scenes, Gone for Good is full of drama and heartbreaking stories.
I enjoyed Gone for Good since the first few chapters, but after various characters come out of nowhere, I got the feeling that this book was hard to concentrate about who each one is or who takes a part in the crime.
FROM THE BLURBAs a boy, Will Klein had a hero: his older brother, Ken. Then, on a warm suburban night in the Kleins’ affluent New Jersey neighborhood, a young woman—a girl Will had once loved—was found brutally murdered in her family’s basement.
And when his shattered family never heard from Ken again, they were sure he was gone for good.Now eleven years have passed.
Some of them made good sense in this book.I loveeeeeeed this murder mystery, suspense thriller.
Messing around with the sleuthing readers, the author knew where to pull the punches to get us disorientated and lost on the wrong tracks of facts.
ঘোল খেয়েছেন কখনো? যদি না খেয়ে থাকেন, তাহলে এই বইটা পড়তে পারেন। পয়সা উশুল হবে বলে দিচছি। লেখক একের পর এক নক আউট পাঞচ দিতে থাকবেন আর মাথা ঘোরাতে থাকবে।  থৃলার জনরায় বরতমান সময়ের সবচেয়ে সেরা লেখকদের একজন হারলান কোবেন। বইয়ের পরথম শবদটা থেকে একদম শেষ শবদটা পরযনত মনোযোগ ধরে রাখতে বাধয করবে। লেয়ারের পর লেয়ার আর টুইসট এর কথা নাহয় বাদই দিলাম। সেই সাথে আছে দুরদানত কযারেকটার বিলডিং।  এই বইয়ের নায়কের নাম উইল। এগার বছর আগে তার সাবেক পরেমিকা খুন হয়ে যায় নিজের বাসার বেজমেনটে। আর সনদেহভাজন আসামী করা হয় উইলের ভা

A fun read.
A bit naive in places when it came to motivation for some of the gruesome killings and especially for the Ghost's part in the whole thing.
That was very weak.
There was a nice twist at the end, in fact there were several nice twists at the end and the book finished on a high.
I had no real attachment to any of the characters except maybe a little for Squares.
Too many of the characters were not who or what they were supposed to be which made it difficult to really know them.
So basically an entertaining and fairly quick read without much to remember it by.
It wasn't bad, but the new character every chapter and ever-increasing slide into moral turpitude in this Disturbia Hell came across heavy-handed and spectacle driven.
There were some great underlying themes like face value, redemption, and sacrifice, but they got lost under the excess of plot and characters.
The only thing which sat there sedately was the setting which is only funny because I have family and friends scattered all over New Jersey so Fair Lawn--yep, Livingston-yep.
Near Nutley.
Near Livingston.
Coben is the King of the Plot Twist. Gone for Good is first of Harlan Coben's many novels that I have read and this one drew me is so much that I read it all in one day. Each chapter ends with a cliff hanger and that makes you want to keep reading. He also does a fantastic job of character development. If you enjoy a good mystery that will keep up on the edge and always guessing...I suggest Gone For Good.
WOW! That's the first thing I said to my self after finishing this book. Twist after Twist after Twist. Really a good book.
There is no getting away from it Harlan Coben knows how to enthral his readers.This was heading for a 5/5 star review until, that is, I got to the end.
The end was a real let down and for that reason it got 4/5 stars.
The family cling to the belief that the brother was set up.Eleven years on and Will’s second love has just walked out on him.
The brother he so idolised turns out not to be the brother Will thought he was.Harlan Coben is the master of the dead end sub plots.
My first favorite read of 2016! Holy cow, I had hunches, I solved some clues, I even thought out the chain of events. NEVER in a million years would I have seen the ending coming. Brilliant, clever, and an emphatically cunning crime mystery!!! Bravo Harlan Coben!! A must-read for my fellow readers. I couldn't put the book down it was so white-knuckle gripping!
This was my first experience with Harlan Coben and I don't think I'm clamoring to read another.
It was good enough entertainment for a couple of days.
Revealing too much of each character wouldn't allow Harlan Coben to change what all the characters are and what they stand for and what they'r emotivated by in the last twenty pages.
I'm the bad guy!
I'm a good guy!
I'm a good guy!
I've been hiding my motivation all along so that I can pull this gun out and shoot the real bad guy!
With that said, Coben's plot has a break-neck pace.
GONE FOR GOOD is a fast paced thriller with at least 60 plot twists, turns or startling revelations (I catalogued them.) Typical of the genre, it is plot rather than character driven.
Again, that seems typical of the genre.The story is fast paced not just because the author uses cliff hanging chapter endings and plot twists.
Also, Coben will interleave chapters with two or more related plot elements as he develops the story.This is a four star read in the thriller genre - put "thriller genre" in bold italics and underline it.
A few who do read thrillers found the plot too much like Coben's first thriller, TELL NO ONE.

I just finished this book and I feel like I've gone on a hell of a roller coaster ride without even leaving home.
This book was absolutely incredible!
The man is absolutely genius when it comes to thinking up plot twists and turns to keeping the reader second-guessing.
If you want something a little more sedate and bland, then you may wish to just leave this book alone because once you start reading, you won't be able to stop -- just like when you strap in to a real roller coaster ride.
Justas seriam as 3,5*.Harlan Coben é, normalmente uma leitura segura. Uma trama bem pensada, com voltas e reviravoltas, que resulta num policial levezinho que me mantem sempre interessada.Gostei bastante deste, adorei as personagens, desde o Will, ao John Asselta.O final acabou por ser uma surpresa.. aconselho esta leitura
Tell No One was my first Harlan Coben novel and IMHO it was an amazing tale.
Coben is clearly a gifted writer, with a good sense of what it takes to grab your interest and hook you, and then keep you going until the last page ....
However, having started with Tell No One, Gone for Good seemed like a reformulation.
Hero is a grieving man whose beloved family member is dead .....
Gung-ho law enforcement types convinced the hero knows more?
Another great thrill ride by Harlan Coben. Just when you think you know what is going on, another twist turns you all around! Read this one as soon as you get your hands on it, and you won't regret it:)(Just a note that there are some brutal & graphic violent scenes so sensitive readers might want to beware)
Roman koji vas drzi u neizvjesnosti do samog kraja i razbije sva moguca predvidjanja o zavrsetku. Napeti triler koji ce oduseviti i najzahtjevnije citace. Iskrena preporuka! :)
I think most authors struggle to pull of writing in the second person but you feel like Harlan's having a conversation with you - the Reader - as you read this book.It's a story with many twists and turns and jut remember that nothing is ever as it seems.Our protagonist has struggled to clear his brother's name for most of his life.
The police force think his brother's guilty.
The local community thinks his brother is guilty.
The deceased's family think his brother is guilty.
Coben takes a good plot and suspense, but taints it with cardboard characters and too much suspension of belief.
Will, the protagonist seems to have only two traits: irrationally angry and hopelessly naive (you know, when another character is trying to explain a formulaic plot twist that you as the reader saw through five minutes earlier, but he just can't wrap his head around it.) The only interesting character is one of the antagonists, the Ghost, and even he is dulled down by the end.
With the plot and pacing, I might have rated this one higher if I hadn't recently read so many superior books lately, including thrillers.
Yet another loved-one-presumed-dead-but-look-may-still-be-alive-and-in-hiding story from Harlan Coben. I'm about 25% through, and may ditch it. It's just not grabbing me. Also not buying into the constant over-the-top emo from the main character. Could be I'm over Harlan Coben's writing style and plotlines, since neither one ever changes. Same story, different book.UPDATE: I'm out. Made it halfway through, but it just wasn't worth reading any further.
In this book we meet Will Klein and I found that it didn't take long for me to like him.
In other words, a welcome change from the ordinary leading male cop type character!The story itself is quite interesting and before long you realise that the disappearance of Will's girlfriend is far from ordinary.
Will Klein's friend Squares is a brilliant added character and I found that I would have like to have actually seen more of him in the book.
All in all it was another winner from Harlan Coben.
Coben does well to get you invested with the hero, Will, an ordinary, good hearted guy who works in a youth shelter and lives with someone he loves.
The shadow over him and his family is the disappearance of his brother Ken nearly a decade before in connection with the murder of Will's ex-girlfriend.
Suddenly his current girlfriend splits and violent friends of his brother and the police come to brutally press him in their search for Ken. As Will pursues the mystery, he implausibly overcomes many dangerous situations and each truth he grasps tends to be dashed with successive twists, leaving me feel a bit manipulated.
A Peça de CozinhaRecordo-me de ter lido algures (salvo erro numa resenha da Teresa), uma referencia a este livro, classificando-o como uma excelente peça de cozinhaOu teria sido só "boa"? Esperem...Acho que foi "requintada"... Ou "ótima"... Acho que foi "ótima"!Bom...já não sei!... Fosse o que fosse tratava-se dum merecido elogio Quanto a mim:Nada a acrescentarÉ um thriller para ler e saborear...Até rimou! ;)
This was my first Coben book...can't say I'm reaching for another one. This started out okay, and even the ending was different, but meh. Kind of flat.
if goodreads would have that half star possible this would be 3.5 ... Fast read with quite a few twists that this author often delivers.
As a boy, Will Klein had a hero: his older brother, Ken. Then, on a warm suburban night in the Kleins' affluent New Jersey neighborhood, a young woman -- a girl Will had once loved -- was found brutally murdered in her family's basement.
And when his shattered family never heard from Ken again, they were sure he was gone for good.
I don't know what else I can say about Harlan Coben or his books but I clearly love him and recommend everyone to read this book as well as his others.
