https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5667432-house-of-flowers
How Ottilie could choose to stay with Royal instead of returning with her friends is beyond me.But I think that, as short as this story is, that's sort of the point: the power of love--how love comes with sacrifices and causes you to make decisions you wouldn't otherwise make, all coming with the annoying mother-in-law that's so typical to modern society.
Ottilie is told that the bee that doesn't sting her means she is in love.
The bee stings her at the prospect of Mr. Jamison and not for Royal, when in the end, the correct decision would have been Mr. Jamison.
Writing > story.
When Old Bonaparte dies, Royal insists that Ottilie be tied to a tree for a day as punishment, to break the grandmother’s spell.When Baby and Rosita come to rescue her, Ottilie must choose, but which life is better, one that promises security and friendship, but takes away much more, or one that started with love, but has turned into something else?I liked this story because of Capote’s precise character descriptions.
I think this is a terrific way of showing how communication is often subtle and hidden between the lines.I also like how Capote gives you a glimpse of Royal’s true character and how it doesn’t come out completely until the end of the story.
Truman Capote was a gay man, correct?
Is that why he liked writing about stupid women who were prostitutes?
Is this what he envisions when he thinks of women?
This short story was included in the copy of Breakfast at Tiffany's that I bought, so I decided to see what it was about.
And yes, it was about a stupid woman who was a whore.
There are two more Capote stories included in my book.
Hopefully we will get a theme change with the next two.
Got anything about a smart woman Truman, one who doesn't sell her body for money?Just asking.
A short story I really enjoyed, enjoyed the beautifully imagined setting, interesting set of characters, the creepy element of the story, that combines a drastic childhood with a one of a kind love story between Oilette and Royal, but the ending was not understandable. I think I can understand that this story revolves around the whole idea of what love could force us to do, but this was too much.
A short intriguing story of a young woman who falls in love with a man from a mountain, Royal Bonaparte. It is a story of love, submission and sacrifice of one's life out of love for someone even when it's detrimental to one's life.I was however disappointed with the ending, wish it had been slightly different.
I really love Truman Capote's writings. It is simple, vivid, alive and real. He does not waste my time with over explaining and over describing a scene or a dress. I can feel the air, taste the rum, and smell the flowers without him telling me everything. I really enjoyed this read. It was super quick and fun. Makes me think when I see a bee now. :)
Truman Capote is a masterful storyteller. Though this is only the second of his I have read, it has definitely encouraged me to read the remainder of his works. House of Flowers has a unique form of dialogue, giving the notion that it is being told rather than using quotation marks to indicate a character is speaking. Capote's use of description is admirable, and it is clear that as a writer I could learn a lot from him. I would recommend this story to those who enjoyed Capote's other works.
I think I understand what this book's purpose is, and the concept it tackles is pretty interesting, but it makes you uneasy.
Considering that, I should probably give the book three stars.
If a book inspires some outward emotion, I generally try to reward it.
But honestly, I just don't care for this book.
Usually I can chalk up a book's low score to weak characters, boring plot, or poor morals.
The plot flow is peculiar and the character choices are odd, but like I said, I think I get why Capote made the choices he did.
Hmmm, what an odd yet interesting story.
Read this after reading Breakfast at Tiffany's, which depicts a woman as nothing more than a simple minded fool, with a need to look pretty and put together. This short story was no different. Disliked the characters and the story. Thankfully, it was super short.
This was a short an interesting read.
Life as a married woman goes through phases of happiness, irritation and bleakness but Ottilie is in love.
Even though i found the ending quite strange, the message is clear: love can cause suffering and make you do crazy things, but Ottilie would never give up her love for anything, not even the extravagant life she had at the Champs-Élysées.
Love makes us do strange things, and it isn't always easy, but to know love is better than to know luxury.
After reading Breakfast at Tiffany's I've been hooked on Capote.
Capote's use of language is remarkable; I love the lush details that transport you to exactly the time and place he's writing about.
He simply presents people as they are and leaves us to decide how we feel about them, their decisions, and their circumstances.
I guess I left off one star because her only choices were prostitution or staying with a husband who neglects her, and it was hard to feel a connection with any of the characters.
That being said, it was a fascinating character study.
My reason for not liking short stories is that I am a character person.
I want to meet, get to know and fall in love with the characters and in shorts, I don't get that.But as short stories go, I did enjoy this & the other stories included.
Capote has beautiful way of writing and introducing the characters.
This was a lovely simple story of Ottilie and how she came into and left her life of prostitution.
In a few short pages Capote had given me the character definition I want for and transporting me to this beautiful part of Cuba.
His sentences are enchanting and rhythmical in a way. He is able to bring to life a character without unnecessary descriptions, but with some metaphors and well chosen adjectives. It's a story about love, that bites but does not sting and one must choose. Ottilie prefered to stay at the house of flowers, which she dearly loved, rather than run away and hurt her loved one. Even though she knew that this love didn't treat her as she expected, she decided to fight for it. If that's not unconditional love, then what can we expect?
I imagine Capote sitting down, drink in hand, to write a quick, short story. As he wrote, he continued to refill his glass until the entire bottle was empty. What started off as a colorful, intriguing story degenerated into a pointless dead end.
short story: probably my favorite love story.
Just like 'Breakfast at Tiffany's' the ending caught me a little off-guard. The writing is gorgeous though, rich and real.
Not a fan of the story or the main character. She is so selfish and vain it makes the story annoying.
I read this one twice - back to back. Capote weaves a love story with some humor and magic. I really loved this one.
Good short story. I am not a huge fan of short stories because I really like more detail. I did not feel like I really understood the characters, but it was a good quick read.
It is a story about confliction between love, roots, and material.
Love forms different roots and is the highest possession above all else.A lot of people didn’t like the ending but I am going to be honest that by running to her aid, he did love her.
This story did contain some magical elements such as the floating eye of Old Bonaparte.
The bees were a part of that magical element and somehow were rather real.
She didn’t need the bees to fall in love with him.
I particularly enjoyed this short story 'House of Flowers' of Truman Capote's.
I found it very pleasant and easy to read with a good context.
It is not difficult to see what is going on (which can be the case for some short stories I have found) yet the setting of the scenes are well set out and described and the detail is lovely.
I particularly liked the ending.
Another element of the story that contributed to it in a good way was the slight mystical element of it that I felt added depth and made the story more interesting.
This was an interesting short story, but the ending was disappointing.
It's hard to tell if it's supposed to raise awareness for people that can't leave toxic situations, or if it's mocking people that go back to relationships that are abusive.
It's hard to tell.
Capote's relationship with the women character's he writes is interesting, but not necessarily in a good way.
He more often then not likes to write silly, simpering women, who had they just listened to a man wouldn't be in the trouble they're in.
I think I might reread this again, soon and see what I take away a second time.
Truman Capote’s short story House of Flowers was beautifully written. Capote has a way of weaving in ideas about love and life and regret so beautifully and this short story really shows off that skill. The rhythm of Capote’s short stories kept me interested, and in the end I didn’t want to story to stop. Capote is an incredible author.
Interesting short story that reads almost like a Haitian folk tale.Capote has a captivating writing style. He does not have to use a lot of words when a few will express the same sentiment. He has a keen sense of characterization, which can be difficult to convey in short story form.
A cute short story about a girl from the capital of Haiti and a boy from the mountains. The story is very short but however, Truman managed to entirely teleport me to the island. It was a beautiful journey.
3.5 stars. Good short story about a woman who leaves her home to live with a man. She kills his mother or grandmother and the house becomes cursed. Her friends come and try to convince her to leave but she stays in the mountains with her husband.
A short cute little read that was in the back of the Breakfast At Tiffany's novel. The things people put up with for those they love as well as the understanding people will develop for those they love.
This was cute, but a little too cliche at times. I didn't like the ending as much as I was hoping. I did like the fact that she trolled him at the end, but I didn't like the fact that she was tied to a tree and that she made her friends tie her back to the tree just to please Royale....
