https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24833801-follow-you-home
Yet again, another totally unique book here with a new plot, plenty of twists and loads of moments that you will be busting to know what REALLY happened.
Mark is brilliant at making you wait for the good stuff.I like knowing that when I pick up a book by Mark I am going to like it, without fail.
The way the book is written is that he gives you snippets of what happened on the trip of a lifetime, lost in a forest, then flips forward to today, in London where the impact of it all is still rolling out.
It's like a montage of cliches and nonsense.
A taxi drives through a puddle and splashes an old lady.
A pregnant lady holds her belly.
The whole book is trite imagery from watching too many crappy noir films and Lifetime dramas.Oh god, then the nonsense.
Rob and Erin went through a rough patch when Rob "almost had an affair" but now they're better.
WTF is almost had an affair?
Seriously some of the worst writing I've ever read.
40% of the sentences are structured like "I + verb + object." It's 6th grade level writing.
They plan on getting married and want to start raising a family soon, so this will be their last big vacation for a while.
Enjoying their trip so far through France, Spain, and Italy, they board a night train in Romania...
where everything starts to go very wrong.
They come upon a creepy house in the woods.
the old man Nicolae, weird and creepy Dragos, Constantin...
I felt sorry for Alina (a girl Daniel and Laura had met on the train) because of what she ended up going through.A pretty good and captivating mystery thriller.
You teased us for half the book sloooowly scattering about those many curious pieces of the story, frightening us in the process with your trademark unrelenting suspense.
It got to the point where I was totally stumped and honestly could see no way for you to emerge looking brilliant as there was clearly no way for this story to work out in the end.
As the info bites and surprises continued, on and on and on, I finally started thinking, hey, perhaps there is a way for Mr. Edwards to salvage some sort of believable ending to this tale.
Extremely unbelievable plot, way beyond the believability associated with any decent fiction, which hindered my ability to care even a little about any of the silly characters. I won't summarize the story -- tons of reviewers have already done that. Just know that this book starts on a high note and then makes a slow, aggravating decline encouraged by a ridiculous secret and a cast of equally ridiculous characters. This book will help you sharpen your skimming skills.
What starts as the perfect European trip for Laura and Daniel, become derailed in Romania after having their passports and credit cards stolen, they are thrown off the train by the Romanian police.
Trying to find Aline they come upon a house in the woods, and what they see in this house will cause them to flee and vow to never speak of the atrocities within.For the first half of the book the reader has no idea what Laura and Daniel saw.
Strange things start happening to them, and I was thinking horror book, maybe vampires, werewolves.

But once again, Mark Edwards was able to lead me and my favorite book buddy Chris down many detours and dead ends, keeping us guessing up until the last few chapters!And that epilogue!
That's the picture Edwards paints, up until a decision to save money and NOT get a sleeper car on a late night train turns one couple's adventure into a nightmare.
Moral of the story-when planning a trip like this, make sure to spend the money for a sleeper car.
SIDE NOTE:If you haven't read any of Edwards books yet, you can get a free copy of Guardian Angel to sample (a short story) by signing up for email updates from him.
I’m good at this.
Actually, my local reading community are in for a treat as I requested this one be added to my library catalogue and they obliged.Absolute bum on the edge of my seat material, I was physically leaning over my seat in a kind of ‘hurry up get this done’ kind of way.
I’m hooked!Lovers of a good thriller will be enraptured with this, and I absolutely recommend it for this reason.
I love when I’m hit for six and have no idea and that's what I've just experienced, and especially love a sinister last sentence.
Surprisingly, I ended up quite enjoying this.Alright, so the story is that Daniel and Laura are thinking about settling down and having children.
While traveling through Romania a poorly timed nap in an unlatched sleeping car lead to Daniel and Laura waking up to discover their passports have been stolen.
If you are familiar with what Mitchell and I like in a thriller, you’ll be happy to know our reaction to Follow You Home went sort of like this .
(The only thing Ron 2.0 loves more than plotholes is typos!)But this was a real page turner and there were times I truly didn’t know WTF was happening so it makes it a winner in my book.
Backpacking in Europe, a last hurrah before returning to London and settling into married life, jobs and babies, Daniel and Laura board a night train in Romania bound for Sighisoara.
Upon discovering their passports, train tickets, and money have been stolen from their backpacks, they are unceremoniously thrown off the train in the middle of nowhere.
What Daniel and Laura experience will follow them home and affect their relationship and the lives of those around them.
An old man, a monster.
A dark forest, an old house with a 'rotten ambiance'.
For the sake of all that is holy, next time buy the sleeper tickets!
This was almost a DNF but I had to know what was the big bad thing that happened to Laura and Daniel that they swore to never tell. It takes over half the book to find out and it's disappointing. I skimmed the last half to see how it all plays out. At this point I still didn't know if I was reading a story about horror, the supernatural, or a crime thriller. The writing is amateurish, the plot implausible, and the characters aren't likeable.
Creeping up over the stairs, I didn't realize I was holding my breath.Mark Edwards always leaves a little bit at the back of his book [which I LOVE] telling us what inspired him to write the story.
I really enjoy that bit because I often wonder how on earth an author comes up with such brilliant pieces of craftmanship that keeps us readers begging for more....more......More I don't like reading the words, WOW, fab, fantastic, couldn't put it down, page turner, they are all Clichés, but you know what?
Laura and Daniel are on the trip of a lifetime around Europe, supposedly their last blow-out before they settle down and start a family.
What evil happened so traumatised them that Daniel is in therapy and Laura has left him, a shadow of the girl she was at the start of the book.
It is “edge of your seat” stuff, a book that is impossible to put down or get out of your head and full of surprises that only stop on the last page.Now, I absolutely loved the story and heartily recommend it, but I do have serious doubts about their reasons for keeping their secret.
Mark Edwards is an author I have only started reading this year but I am yet to be disappointed with any of his novels.
When I finish reading his books, I always feel like instantly starting another one of his novels straight away.This book features Daniel and Laura who are travelling around Europe when their lives are changed forever when they are thrown off a night train in Romania.
Well written characters and a fast paced action filled psychological thriller that makes you read faster and faster to try to get to the explanation.Highly recommended and if you haven't read any of Mark Edwards books what are you waiting for.
I am now a Mark Edwards fan i liked this one his combination of thriller, horror throw in a bit of p
5 Stars +  Top 50 Books of 2015  "Best Horror Suspense Thriller."Mark Edwards,  one of my “go-to” authors for some of the most intense and engaging psychological thrillers; however, with FOLLOW YOU HOME, he turns up the complexity and intensity ten-fold, (like, on steroids) with a Stephen King-like, brilliantly plotted, spine-tingling, and haunting atmosphere of evil, lies, and horror.
An innocent European backpack adventure, a night train ride, mysterious strangers, a haunting forest, and a strange house; meets evil, greed, violence, corruption, and revenge.
From past Hungary-Romania 2013, to present London, 2014 and flashes back and forth to the time surrounding the journey in the forest, you definitely will not fall asleep reading this one.
The first being The Magpies and I can say that after reading this the writing has improved as we're treated to a pacy, rollercoaster of a thriller.The book begins with an English couple on a Romanian leg of an European tour they decided to take.
Shady characters and strange events are taking place that don't make sense, slowly beginning to mount as they couple struggle to shake off this seemingly never ending nightmare.
This is an accomplished book that was thrilling to read with shady characters and mistrust galore.
I'm not normally a reader of thrillers but this one had me on the edge of my seat trying to work out what had happened to a wholesome young couple in a dark forest in the middle of Romania.Daniel and Laura, a young English couple are on a backpacking trip around Europe before settling down to have a a family when they are robbed on a train in the middle of Romania.
On their journey to the nearest town something bad happens to them in a creepy tumbledown house in the middle of the forest.
3.5 starsI had zero idea what this book was about, picking it up solely due to seeing Edwards' name pop up on here in glowing terms so often. If anything, I thought that made the reading experience even better. It's a crazy, wild ride of a story and not even having the blurb to guide me made it all the more surprising. It was hugely enjoyable but I felt the writing suffered at times. The style is splashy, all about the plot and surprises. Easy to read, a bit silly, but overall brilliant fun.
Daniel and Laura have had the time of their lives and are now enjoying the last leg of their once in a lifetime European backpacking holiday, before returning home to London to settle down and start a family of their own.Unable to secure a first class sleeping cabin on the overnight train through Romania, Daniel and Laura settle into their seats to ride out the night.
I need to read more psychological thrillers!It’s funny because I had just finished reading a traditional romance story for the Genre Spotlight feature and wasn’t sure if I wanted to grab another one (then I saw some titles in the Kindle store and just couldn’t do it), but I did want something contemporary-ish. I normally never go to the Kindle store when I’m looking for books, but I was already in bed and decided to take a walk on the wild side. For I am a rebel.Anyway, I happened to see this b
I need to read more psychological thrillers!It’s funny because I had just finished reading a traditional romance story for the Genre Spotlight feature and wasn’t sure if I wanted to grab another one (then I saw some titles in the Kindle store and just couldn’t do it), but I did want something contemporary-ish.
I’m no expert in what makes a great psychological thriller but it seems to me that Mark Edwards is and I plan on reading more from him.
This book was nominated in this round of Goodyear's award, in the horror category I think.
I thought it sounded interesting and downloaded it on audible for my long holiday flight.
Daniel - I think, pardon me for not learning the characther's names properly - and his girlfriend Laura get into trouble on a train in Romania during a European holiday.
Before any details are revealed, we're back in London and Daniel and Laura are estranged.
The author kept revealing twists and turns, but because I didn't like any of the main characters, I didn't give a shit.
The reveals where merely annoying stumbles along to completion.
Very good, well written piece of horror/thriller. This is definitely an author to watch.
In the middle of nowhere, Alina trudges off and Laura and Daniel soon follow, trying to find her, but only discovering a discarded boot.
Edwards moves the story forward, back to London, where Laura and Daniel sit on a secret they discovered in Romania, one that has left them emotionally and somewhat physically scarred.
Alina's own story adds to the mystery and her appearance in London leaves Daniel to wonder the true and complete story of that house in Romania.
This started off creepy and thrilling but ended up being dull and stupid. The whole thing that happened at the house in the woods was disturbing yes, but I feel like it's been done before. Still this isn't a terrible book though. That twist at the end made my jaw hit the floor!
I did not enjoy this one. Almost a DNF. NOTHING happens! Unlikeable characters, unbelievable plot, did not convince me at all. I ended up annoyed. Not my kind of book.
Loved this book. I have become a fan of Mark Edwards.
Thomas & MercerArchive Date Jul 15 2015Description: It was supposed to be the trip of a lifetime, a final adventure before settling down.After a perfect start, Daniel and Laura’s travels end abruptly when they are thrown off a night train in the middle of nowhere.
To find their way back to civilisation, they must hike along the tracks through a forest…a haunting journey that ends in unimaginable terror.Back in London, Daniel and Laura vow never to talk about what they saw that night.
This is my first book by Mark Edwards, but it certainly won’t be the last.
I was pleased to see yet another unforeseen twist thrown in at the end.The characters in the story are drawn perfectly, so much so that I could clearly picture every one of them, and at times I felt as if I was standing alongside them as the tale unfolded.
I won’t go into detail about the actual story (the blurb is enough to give you an idea), but there are many threads and it would have been easy for the author to trip himself up.
As it turned out, he pulled everything together exceptionally well.Time to go and get my next helping of Mark Edwards.
