https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/698868.Jesting_Pilate
(Or same-same, as they say here.) I would rank it as one of the best travel books I've ever read, less so for the countries he visited and more for his perceptive insight and evocative writing.After spending three days at a political campaign, he reveals how useless he finds it all.Personally I have little use for political speaking.
Huxley's perambulations are not what he is famous for, but books like Island of Brave New World couldn't have been written by someone who traveled frequently.I have always felt a passion for personal freedom.
No matter – the charm of the book is Huxley's superbly balanced, thoughtful insights on everything from the caste system to Christian persecution in history, from how practical matters shape the seriousness of sin to Hollywood pabulum to cultural differences in music appreciation.A truly learned and reasonable man, Huxley is at turns inspiring, funny, admiring and scathing.
His description of India is dead-on, and it exquisitely captures that mixture of pity, contempt, understanding and reverence that the open minded Westerner comes to feel for Indian life.
The book is a wholly admirable exercise in the broadening of an already open mind.
Ces voyages en Inde, en Malaisie, en Indonésie et au Japon ne constituent pourtant que l'arrière-plan d'un recueil de pensées humanistes et avant-gardistes, des idées d'autant plus réjouissantes qu'elles surgissent alors d'un humble esprit visionnaire à peine âgé de 32 ans.
Sa critique du joug anglais en terre indienne ne sombre pas dans un manichéisme facile, les paradoxes de l'Amérique joyeuse et puritaine sont délicieusement dépeints, la destruction des valeurs de la société moderne américaine judicieusement argumentée.
La conclusion, sous la forme du retour à Londres, est une véritable charte du Grand Voyageur : "revenu au point de départ, plus riche de beaucoup d'expériences, plus pauvre de nombreuses convictions perdues, de beaucoup de certitudes détruites.
Oddly, theres not much in the way of description of food while in India, though a description of a particularly large and satisfying meal is present in the Burma section.I recently spent a month travelling in Rajasthan, and read the chapters pertaining to those areas while there and was surprised to see that many of his observations still hold true.
Anyone visiting Mumbai will agree with his observation of the crows.Aldous Huxley has surprisingly modern views for a book written in 1914, as an Indian reading it, I found I agreed with him on nearly everything, including his views on the Taj Mahal.
I had set aside the entire weekend to read the book but had to begin a day later as a result.
Aldous Huxley writes thought-provoking entry after mind-blowing entry of his travels across the vast expanse of Asia (South, IndoChina Southeast, East) to America.
His eye for details, wide erudition and deep sociocultural awareness help transform the book into a pair of comfortable shoes that is easy to slip into.
His uncanny powers of observation coupled with his skills in writing ensures that the reader enjoy the rush of traveling places thousands miles apart without moving an inch.
Pas tout récent: certains éléments ont vieilli, mais d'autres n'ont pas changé.
Fascinating comments from travelling in 1924. Written with great insight and wit.
“Travel is cheap and rapid,” writes Aldous Huxley in Jesting Pilate (first published in 1926) said by some to be the first of the “modern” travel adventures. “The immense accumulation of modern knowledge lies heaped on every side.” (He should live so long, especially now.)Huxley is best remembered as the author of Brave New World and The Doors of Perception, which is one of the first personal accounts of psychedelic usage (that other kind of travel). Read the rest of my review at: http://tbdeluxe.blogspot.com/2015/09/travels-with-huxley-thoughts-on-jesting.htmlThanks!
Amusing and insightful at various points. Huxley sure loves to have an opinion. I can't help but find his contemptuous dismissal of the Taj pretty hilarious. At times he shows impressive self awareness (at least in terms of the era), though blind spots are clear to us reading 80+ years later. His elitist criticisms of democracy and popular taste are a little cringeworthy.Loved the descriptions of India. How different to my experience. The most fully formed writing comes at the end in his bitter denunciations of America.
A funny, deeply insightful account of the author's travels through India, Southeast Asia and America. While this is technically a travel memoir, much of the writing is philosophical and showcases Huxley's humanist perspectives. A worthwhile read.
I'd never tackled anything by this author, before picking up this series of essays at a used bookstore. Frankly, I preferred Evelyn Waugh's Labels (also "noted novelist as travel writer"), but Huxley's observations made for an interesting read.
If you ignore the outdated and casual racism (it is of it's time) it's a rather interesting jaunt through the Southern Hemisphere
