https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/687215.The_Power_That_Preserves
The second book of the series ended with a fairly bad situation.
Their last resort it to try summoning Thomas Covenant yet again; only this time he managed to resist the summons - and for good reasons.
After the first two books I did not expect any kind of action from Covenant - except for the very minor ones and for very selfish reasons.
This was one of the reasons for higher rating of this book: it became really boring to read about a guy acting entirely out of self-preservation during the first and the second ones.
I'm just trying to figure out the best way to describe the main issues I have upon completing this book.
And that's before even mentioning T.C.'s still-annoying self-pity, which is mercifully toned down from the first two books (see my reviews here and here), but which still occupies entire paragraphs and sometimes pages that can be simply skipped without missing anything.
I do like Donaldson's world-building (even if it's heavily indebted to Tolkien) and also the subversive aspect of having the protagonist be a non-hero, but there's too much other stuff (most of it related to poor writing IMO) in the way of good story.
I'm about to move, so I am going through my books and deciding which will come with me and which will ... stay in a local charity shop.This entire series will soooooooooooooo stay right here. It sure has to be among the worst, most boring and direst fantasy spectacles I have ever had the misfortune to buy and read. I hated this 15 years ago, and my feelings haven't changed. Except that these days I also find it terminally overwritten.
"High Lord, does it come to this?
And the Unbeliever-Do not forget Thomas Covenent."After a moment, Quaan murmered, "Do you yet trust him?"The High Lord did not hesistate.
One that I really never thought I would utter.I have grown very fond of Thomas Covenant.I know, I know!
Thomas Covenant has redeemed himself (sort of).
I've got to try to make them right."In this book the battle against Lord Foul has finally come to a head.
Lord Mhoram and the other Lords battle against one of the Raver's at Revelstone and Covenant and Foamfollower attempt to confront Foul himself in Foul's Creche.
For some reason I absolutely hated the main character Thomas Conevenant (probably because he was an ass) and my one driving passion was to keep reading until he was killed off.
Until of course the last book in the second series where I got over it and decided he should live and then he was killed off.
As an interesting aside, this series made it remarkably less likely that I would have committed suicide since whenever I thought about it, I would promise myself I would first take out Stephon Donaldson before I did, the thought of which tended to make me somewhat happier at the time.
Based on my experience of the two previous books in this trilogy, I wasn't expecting to love this book.
But right from the off it grabbed me in a way the others haven't.
You're thrown right in there and the pace doesn't let up for the whole rest of the book.
I devoured the last about 150 pages, eager to see the resolution of everything that had happened up until that point.
Thomas Covenenant even went some small ways to redeeming himself in my eyes, and it was nice to see a little more heroism from this anti-hero.
Story gets a 5.
Donaldson's writing style gets a 2.
I struggled through this trilogy, but find that I am happy that I did so.
Covanant is an impotent jerkface who's primary motivations come from dealing with a disease of which I have no personal experience.
But the originality of the story--which can be so hard to come by in the fantasy genre made up a lot of ground for me.
The plight of the Giants, and Foamfollower were some of the best parts of the story.
I enjoyed 'Lord Foul's Bane' and loved 'The Illearth War', but I had forgotten just how tremendous this final book of the First Chronicles is.It ties up a lot of loose ends from the first two volumes, bringing the stories of such wounded characters as Lena, Trell, Triock and Foamfollower to their conclusions.
And it repeatedly throws Covenant's prior failings in his face as Foul tries to bring him to ultimate despair.
'Lord Mhoram's Victory' is a chapter that had my pulse racing.The ending is also dealt with in the only way that makes sense.
When the giant leads an army against Revelstone he really does seem impossible to defeat, and Covenant's situation seems hopeless.Even after the conflict rights itself following a beautifully written series of chapters that are understood to be occurring at the same time in different locations, I found it distressing that there were still 100 pages left in the book.
Covenant continues his quest to defeat Lord Foul even without knowing how, and again it is by no means certain that he will not cause something even more disastrous.
Though I enjoyed the first two, even now, thinking back on it more than thirty years later, I believe this book was magnificent.
Donaldson is able to weave wisdom and sheer humanity into the story with such intensity that I had a love/hate relationship with Covenant and the story the whole way through, but I still had it finished in five days.
But Covenant does not fully believe in the Land anyway.
As an aspiring writer, I would consider myself truly accomplished in this field if I could write with the intensity and insight into human character that Donaldson has.
Covenant as cantankerous and full of contradictions as ever; Mhoram as wise and understanding; at one moment valuing one person's need above his whole world; Saltheart Foamfollower the best friend a person might have.
A remarkable thing.Also, the fact that Foamfollower saved his world through laughter was wonderful.
It reminded me of Terry Waite who, when released from his captivity, was met by the then Archbishop of Canterbury Runcie.
Terry had been held for many months; when he came down from the steps he threw back his head and laughed.
I'm giving this book 5 stars, because I can't give it 4 1/2. I've given the first two 4 stars each. The Power that Preserves was by far the best book in the trilogy. The siege of Revelstone is epic, and Covenant's final showdown with Foul was its equal. This is great fantasy writing.
However, saying that, I must emphasize again that Donaldson's style is a much vaguer, slower-paced style than I prefer to start with, so those who like that type of writing style will have probably liked this book from the beginning.Donaldson leaves a lot unexplained, right from the beginning.
A great deal of the start of the book leaves the reader following Covenant around in a short of delusional stupor, and later the reader will see glimpses into certain perspectives that are truly irrelevant to the story - or, if they are relevant, Donaldson did not clearly explain how.I made a note to myself after about the first hundred pages pending an incident: "Given any sort of logic, we'd never see Triock again, but even though many of Donaldson's side-exploits seem to be pointless and end in people dying, people don't seem to die.
However, I immediately jumped into Tolkien, and afterward, Donaldson.The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant are as different from Tolkien's world as almost any SFF (think Jordan, Martin, etc).
I have always thought this story had more depth than Tolkien (not to knock Tolkien - he's the Godfather of SFF, and I love his books), seemed more...adult?
Maybe this was because of the vitriol of Covenant; Hobbits don't stomp around muttering "Hellfire and bloody damnation," no matter how fiery and dangerous Mordor became.To sum up, The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant were not my first foray into fantasy fiction, nor were they my last; but they are one of the most influential series of novels to my evolution as a reader, and something I can always reread with as much wonder as the first time.

In this, the third and final book of the Illearth War series, Donaldson (enervated beyond all reckoning, but yet with a gargantuan exertion whose puissance he could not attribute) (or something like that) pries his gaze out of his navel, stops trying to use plot to expostulate an impenetrable personal philosophy, and actually puts the storyline front and center.
It's as Dire and Grim and Fraught with Self-Inflicted Misery as the other two books, but reads as legitimate fantasy, with the conflicts and surprises and action that you might expect of a good adventure.So at least now I know what the fuss was all about.
Would you like this series?
Usually it's pleasing when a book sends me to the dictionary, and this is definitely one that stretches me, like the others.
After a while it is tiring, especially because, as alluded to above, Donaldson will seize on an adjective and wrangle it about like a Labrador Retriever with a water toy.
My second dig, in spite of it being a fantasy book, is the inordinate self-wrangling that Thomas Covenant has done through the whole series.
It is admirable that the author digs into the the psychology of his characters, but this is a bit much.
Ok, Tom doesn't like himself and make sure that his leprosy fits his character.
I once heard someone describe these books as: Book 1 life is crap.
Book 2 crap piles up.
I've read nothing by him since Thomas Covenant...and I only read the first book in the second trilogy as I wasn't willing to get TRAPPED in another series about "woe is me life is so unfair" Thomas Covenant.Covenant dragged his feet refusing to believe that The Land was real throughout the entire trilogy spreading misery and pain in his wake.
From refusing to give aid because "it might cost him" to committing rape he was a real winner as a protagonist.
Also read in the dim past...In this book, the vacuum of action in "The Ilearth War" comes to an end and battles are fought, choices are made, and our hero becomes the hero.
Many ends are made ship-shape and the story arc was resolved to a reasonable state.
Hence the return of the 4th star.Since at the time this was where the story ended, I thought it was a pretty good way to wrap things up.
I wasn't expecting Thomas Covenant to re-appear in the future.(At least when Donaldson started up again, he had the decency to be upfront about doing a new set of books.
Not pulling a "fourth book in the Trilogy" stunt.)
I didn't like this series (6 books) for one simple reason: the main character is a depressed whiner who refuses to believe in the fantasy world or his tremendous power. Even if it were all a dream, he should have used his power (for good) instead of being a coward.
Listening to the entire Covenant series on audiobook, narrated by Scott Brick. First Chronicles is complete (thank-you, Stephen and Scott). Now carrying on to the Second Chronicles. Looking forward to it.
While sometimes slow reading and you get bogged down in the ramblings of the main character these are very good books. The fantasy world Donaldson created is unique and rich in characters. Very recommended
Self-pitying leper is self-pitying. You may open this book hoping the end is in sight. It isn't.
read my review for "Lord Foul's Bane" it's the 1st book of the serious, i wrote it for the series in general
It's not just because the writing is dementedly dense (with Donaldson favouring elaborate synonyms and sentence structures just for fun, "demesne" and "celerity" peppering the page), but because dammit, NOTHING goes right, EVERYTHING is hard, for EVERYBODY, all the time.
Covenant the character has slowly yet entirely transformed by the time this third book reaches its climax.
Many times, I felt as if his words were prophecies on the page intended only for me, so truly and accurately did they describe aspects of the inner world I experience.
But it still can't erase the amazing settings, conflicts, characters, experience and overall story of this book.
It's a shadowy place, seen only at the start and end of each novel, like the black & white prelude to The Wizard of Oz. It shows that reality is truly in the eye of the beholder.But Covenant's unbelief has changed too over the course of the series.
His unbelief in the world allows him to believe in himself, which is an interesting bit of messaging from Donaldson.Really, the whole novel is about change.
In doing so, it further highlights how Covenant and his view of the world have changed.The greatest weakness in this novel is probably its plot: Covenant returns to the Land; he goes on a long journey; and armies march.
Terzo libro della prima trilogia.In questo libro si concludono le avventure dei personaggi incontrat
This series did not redeem itself as other readers have suggested.I first read Lord Foul's Bane way back in junior high when, after reading and loving the Shannara books, I was looking for more awesome fantasy.
The only redeeming (for me) aspect to these books is the fact that the rest of the world and characters were enjoyable.I wanted to read this series mostly to be able to say I've read it.
Despite my lack of enthusiasm for the series I have always been a sucker for matching sets.
Since then I do not spend a lot of time on fantasy books, but for some reason I always wanted to try these out again.Lot of folks go on and on about how much they hate Covenant, but I find him refreshing to read since I think that most fantasy has either characters too good, or too bad.
But the series gets better and better and I really had a hard time putting down this third book.
It is very different from LOTR and seems to me that with the character of Covenant it would be hard to compare to any other series.
(view spoiler)[I spent the first two and a half books hating Covenant.
I understand the reason behind his behavior, why he does what he does, why he's the Unbeliever, but he's still terrible.
Lol I read on, hating him and enjoying his pain and misery ("Haha!
I told my honey that after all that the only way Covenant could ever even begin to make up for what he's done in the Land is to actually save it from Foul.
In the end, inside Foul's Creche, whilst he's doing battle with Foul, I may have muttered, " 'Bout bloody time."I cried when Foamfollower reappeared in this book.
<3 (hide spoiler)]Good read.
