https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40329.Metro_Girl

I'm sorry, Janet. But seriously. This book was filled with exactly the same characters as the Plum series, but they had different names. Come on. I liked the Plum series for the most part, but that doesn't mean I want to read it over and over again under the pretense of it being a new story with new people.
I found it fun and silly, and some of the writing was quite clever.
Judey was a little bit of a characature, but the lines about him having "two eyebrows" made me LOL.One of the things I liked was all the pop culture references.
I've often found things like that missing in the Sue Grafton "alphabet series" (it's ok though; that's an older series -- I just find them lacking), and thought that they added to the book.
It was like a conversation with a friend.
And I have to say I liked the fact that Barney & Hooker didn't sleep together within the first 5 pages of the book.It was quite fun :)
I'm calling this done.I've still got about 40 minutes of listening left in the audiobook, but as the minutes wind down at work on this Christmas Eve, I don't know if I'll finish it before they release us.
I kind of just want to stop.This book is dumb.I never cared about any of the characters, the plot is weak and absolutely absurd (She also apparently doesn't have a clue about owning boats in Cuba...
It also took me far too long to get through this damn book, because I just didn't want to listen to it.Don't know if I'll bother reading the next one.
I read the hardcover, large print edition of this, which I point out because it got really funny around pages 280/300.
As usual for a Janet Evanovich book one of the characters was driving a Porsche, it was not however a Cayenne or a Turbo(gasp!), but they did mention they were thinking of upgrading to a Turbo so there's that.
=P There was also a Mini Cooper which I believe Stephanie drove at one point in her books.
hehe The character's weren't law enforcement or investigative types, but I think how they went about everything was pretty believable.
Once a month I choose books for our library to send out to people who can’t make it there to choose their own.
And I spend my Friday mornings working in our community second hand bookshop.
Between these two volunteer jobs I’ve learned about whole realms of fiction I would never have known about and from time to time I give myself a reading exercise to find out what some of the most read are like.
Many want to read romances, quite a few like light mysteries.
Helpful for The Bookshed customers, and to know I must never choose her for the library round.
This was a lot of fun to read. I'd been told that these weren't as good as the Stephanie Plum novels so I was delightfully surprised at how much I enjoyed it. It almost read like a Carl Hiaasen novel; mostly owing to the south Florida setting and odd ball characters. Some of the action in the book was a little preposterous at times but nowhere near the almost unbelievable level of a Plum book. Overall a solid story with enough suspense that had me reading it all in one sitting. Just the summer read I was looking for.
A fun, easy read which is what I needed during the Holiday Season. Not as good as her Stephanie Plum series which has more belly laughs but a good, fast paced thriller.
Read this and really liked it. I liked the characters and the story line. I like Evanovich. Love the Plum series, and this is my second favorite!
Myself included.I for one love her Stephanie Plum novels, so I was extremely excited at hearing she would be starting a new series.
Things are complicated, however, when Sam Hooker tags along with Barney to help her find her brother; he wants his boat back.
With a plot that covers gay men, exfoliating, weapons of destruction, women in distress and fast cars, this is one summer read that keeps the reader guessing until the final pages.While my love for the Stephanie Plum books runs deep, it looks like I have a new heroine to look forward to!
I read this while waiting for Lean Mean 13 to become available at my local library. I was disappointed to find that the characters and premise were very similar to the Stephanie Plum series; I would go so far as to say that Metro Girl is just Plum-lite, the only difference being that while I love Stephanie, I find Barney barely tolerable.In spite of the similarities and the annoying protagonist, you're better off reading this than either of the "between-the-numbers" books.
Too many coincidences. Unbelievable scrapes and escapes. Even the characters can't believe what's happening. "I'm awake, right? This is real?" Loads of fun to read!After being put off by the title for years, I finally decided to read this book after spotting it on sale. No way I could like it anywhere near as much as Evanovich's Stephanie Plum series. Wrong. Not only were there plenty of laughs, but more suspense than seemed possible given the improbable goings-on. The last half of the book is a straight through read without breaks.
I can tell this will be the first of many Janet Evanovich novels for me. Chick-lit mixed with a good mystery and lots of action, Metro Girl was truly entertaining. Alex "Barney" Barnaby and Sam Hooker make quite the pair, thrown together for very different reasons, both are in search of Barney's missing brother Wild Bill. They go on a dangerous adventure with lots of chaos and drama, while the Nascar driving Hooker tries to steal Barney's heart.
I listened to this on my Ipod while cooking and cleaning various messes around my house. I thought it was very similar in style to the Plumb books. This time around the heroine is Barney, a blond gal who grew up around mechanics. Her love interest is a blond Nascar driver who thinks he's just the hottest thing ever. The two meet and pair up when Barney's brother goes missing. It was very cute, light and fluffy and just the thing to distract me from the grossities that I must clean up.
DNF
I really enjoy Janet Evanocich. Her Stephanie Plum novels are a fun, put your mind on hold, good time. This book, however, was beyond stupid. It was so dumb that I was mad at myself for taking time out of my day to read it.
I couldn't finish this book. I'm a big fan of the Stephanie Plum series and maybe my expectations were set too high, but I thought Metro Girl was too fluffy. I had no desire to stick with it and wished Evanovich would simply get back to her primary series.
This book was a disappointment, even from Evanovich.
Love Janet Evanovich! No deep thinking or blood and guts, just plain entertainment.
This is one that I want to re-read. It's been a few years now and when I think back to the elements of it - I really enjoyed the ride.(HA! I made a funny!)
Very Funny, Laughed Out Loud Many Times Reading This Book.
It was written by Janet Evanovich, that was enough for me. But it was new characters and fun. So glad I picked it up.
ok so maybe Janet Evanovich books are not serious literature, but they are fun to read and I like that the main character is a quirky female
Around half way through, when they were already on the run for their lives I had a feeling it was going to go bad and just...one person would be rescued, for another to get kidnapped and over and over again.
I stopped caring and actually found myself cheering for the bad guy just so he could wipe all these idiots out.Not to mention the sexism...I mean, I expect a bit of sexism in romance novels but...Hooker (which is a dumb ass character name) was a sexist pig most of the time.
Metro Girl was a mystery that turned out to be a comedy at the same time.
Both characters scope out different people in this long search for Bill.
As the story precedes and they learn more and more about the situation her brother is involved and without even knowing including themselves in.
I didn't know it was both a love story and a mystery at the same time.
I would recommend this book to anyone, no one in specific because it's a comedy that would give anyone laughs.
As long as you are willing to suspend your disbelief and just enjoy the ride, this is a fun book.
But it is extremely unrealistic that people would act like this.What I enjoyed:* Alexandra (Barney).
It was crazy he was willing to risk his life for a girl he just met, but it made him loveable.* Then rest of the cast of crazy characters.
I really hope people don't act this way, but it is fun to read about.
So many people were willing to risk their lives to help Barney.* I would have liked some glimpse into Hooker's mind.
I have never read anything by Ms. Evanovich before reading this so I don't have her other stories to compare to but I can say this isn't a good one to start with.
I give it one star for the overall story.
The stereotyping of every character was another annoyance, the Hispanics, the gays, the "NASCAR guy" all stereotyped horribly, even the crime family was stereotyped...it was a story full of clichés one after another.
The story had potential (if you took out the NASCAR and stereotypes and clichés) but it fell flat with the ending.
3.5 stars.
Another Christmas knitting listen.
This book is about Alex Barnaby a former mechanic that gave it up because she wanted to wear nice shoes and a pink thong, and a NASCAR driver named Sam Hooker.
Alex wakes up to a call from her brother, Bill.
He's in trouble and Alex goes to help him out.
Hijinx ensues.I admit to not being the biggest JE fan, but I did really like this book.
And then I have to start a baby blanket so there are more audio books in my future...
This book honestly had me angry several times while reading it. First, I'm a NASCAR fan, so the jokes and hillbilly-esq references started to grate on my nerves. Second, it's AGAIN a story that feels paint by numbers. Third: TALLADEGA. How on earth does it get thru countless editors and proofreaders and yet it is spelled wrong? Forth: bikers, really??Jesus. Don't, just don't.
I read this book while on a rafting trip. I started it on the way and found myself reading by flashlight in the tent. I kept my best friend in the next tent awake by laughing so much. The characters were a departure from the Plum books and were fun and interesting. Evanovich always delivers a fun, romantic and light mystery.
