https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/103999.Toxic_Parents
I wish I had read this book months or even years ago, rather than after I've finally made the decision to end a toxic relationship with my mother.
Reading descriptions of other experiences of adult children who have experienced the type of things that I have might have strengthened me to the point of making healthier decisions sooner, but at least it provides validation and a sense that, despite the recent shunning of my entire family, I am not alone in my experiences.
Their tendrils may have harmed your relationships, your career, or your family; they have certainly undermined your self-confidence and self-esteem.Few people make a connection between their parents and their problems.
But the child of toxic parents knows that the lightning is coming sooner or later.
At the core of every formerly mistreated adult—even high achievers—is a little child who feels powerless and afraid.Whether adult children of toxic parents were beaten when little or left alone too much, sexually abused or treated like fools, overprotected or overburdened by guilt, they almost all suffer surprisingly similar symptoms: damaged self-esteem, leading to self-destructive behavior.
Honestly, someone bought this for me because they thought I 'needed' to read it.
Actually, until I recently unpacked from a move, I thought I'd pitched it while packing, out of sheer anger and disgust.But I didn't throw it out and it is actually full of helpful insight and suggestions.
There's chapter called, "No one in this family is an alcoholic" (or close to that) and it caught my eye while thumbing through wondering why I kept this stupid book.
I read the chapter and got it; that was why: to help me understand some BS what was never my fault to begin with.It is helpful - to be sure.
Now he’s not talking to me because I’m a terrible daughter.
I look at every interaction with my father with a mixture of pity, dread and guilt.
This book is easy to read, has some fascinating stories, and each toxic parental type is organized into nice easy categories.
One is I feel like the book is somewhat dated with old 1980s psyche talk.
I don’t think you get rid of baggage just by venting and emotionally confronting it.
I look at old hurts as being like flakes in a snow globe.
I also don’t think that confirmation is the best solution for everybody.
Susan Forward's Toxic Parents: Overcoming Their Hurtful Legacy and Reclaiming Your Life provides a much-needed guide on how victims of abuse can break free from their pasts and move toward healthful, happy lives.
No matter how awful you have felt in the past or how you may have coped in unhealthful ways, you can recover from your parents' abuse and lead a fulfilling, meaningful life.
This book serves two, if not more, important functions: it gives voice to those mistreated and then shamed by their parents, and it provides victims with ways to regain trust and autonomy.
This is a great book about how parents can really screw up their children.The author breaks up abusive parents into 6 categories: inadequate, controlling, alcoholics (or addicts), verbal abusers, physical abusers, and sexual abusers.
Between my parents, step-parents, and an adult relative I was often left with, I had the fun of experiencing five of the six types.
They can either hold on to their worldview that their parents are perfect and accept guilt for their own abuse, or they can accept that their parents are wrong then face the terrifying reality that their protectors are untrustworthy.I chose the second route, but I also have a step-brother who chose the first.
I have the RIGHT to be angry at, hate, and exlude these people from my life!"Forward explains the different ways of toxic behaviour, from controlling parents and negligence, to sexual abuse.
You understand the pain of the victims in the book, you feel their pain and you feel your own pain and in the sadness and anger and grief you experience, you are also freed and protected.What I also loved about this book is the analysis of the different types of abuse, how Forward explains the danger of Freudian beliefs, and the end goal: to find your own piece no matter what.
Then I realized that it would be an injustice to others who may need to read this book, but dont know it exists, if I didn't.
Not to mention doing things to please or placate my parents is one of the many reasons why I needed to read it in the first place soooo....fuck it!
A book to help those end the vicious cycle of self-loathing, low self esteem, and poor self image through facing the most intense, emotional, and largest demon in their lives....their inadequate parents.
I'm here to tell you that you are the #1 person who needs to read this book.
It took me far to long to recognize the emotional manipulation and humiliation I grew up with.
I liked it a lot and it's helped me gain the courage to expect respect from my family.
Just spent 10 days with them and I actually had the courage to speak up against the sexist, racist, and otherwise offensive comments and degradation.
Unfortunately, I don't think I can do that for long.
I need to re-read this and re-think that relationship in general.My goal as a parent: for my children to not end up needing counseling because of me.
It doesn't focus on general abuse, but digs deep down into the different kinds of abusive parents (neglectful, alcoholic, sexual, physical, etc), so reading the entire book from cover to cover may not be 100% necessary.
You can fine tailor your reading to the situations that most closely apply to you.This book also helps with the most extreme cases of abuse - the ones that require permanent separation from the abuser.
I wouldn't suggest reading this book completely alone - some kind of counselor should be working with you at the same time, because objectivity in the face of abuse can be difficult to find.
Very insightful and confirming of suspicions you may have had/ still have but refused to believe.Ever felt any of these feelings below in the back of your mind growing up in a family that gave the impression of perfect happiness?
But never understood why or couldn't bare to think that your 'loving' family would try to cause you (mental/emotional/ and or physical) pain intentionally?Like you were:Being manipulatedBeing spited by a parent ( said things knowing it would hurt your feelings)Being criticized with disgustNever good enough Punished out of spite rather than disciplinedTaken advantage ofForced to do things just so they could feel in controlBeing guilt trippedTeased because you had your own opinions and dared to try to stand on your own two feet....
Sorunlu -toksik- aile ortamında yetişmiş herkese yardımcı olabilecek bir çalışma.
Vakaların çözüm süreçleri ve bunların bir şekilde üstesinden gelindiğini görmek insanı rahatlatıyor.
Özellikle benim gibi geçmişle devamlı kavga halindeyseniz bu durum daha fazla zarar vermekten başka bir şey yapmıyor.
Aile ortamında tohumu atılan asabi, mutsuz, ümitsiz, depresif kişiliğin karanlığını biraz daha derinleştiriyoruz sadece.
Kimse elinde sihirli bir değnekle çıkıp hayatı nasıl çarpık algıladığımızı, geçmişe saplanıp kalmayla hiçbir şeyin çözüme kavuşamayacağını, çocukluk yaralarının artık kabuk bağlaması gerektiğini gösteremeyecek.
Bir şeyleri değiştirmeye başlamak yine kişinin kendisinden başlıyor.
Profesyonel bir yardımla da üstesinden gelinemeyecek problem yok.
Herkese mutlu, huzurlu bir hayat dilerim.
This book was given to me about 8 years ago, maybe more.
Reading the cover, I thought - what a ridiculous sounding book; I had always scorned the concept anyway...
And then I read the book.The author's layout of the book, her easy-to-read style, and her not too harsh tone earned my trust.
I finished reading reading the book, two weeks ago, and I'm still processing the concepts.
It takes a special person to engage so completely in an intimate subject matter and the author easily overcame my skepticism and taught me that I am not alone.
The modern methodology for dealing with those who have been abused is much different than it was in days gone past, and Susan Forward makes a clear, concise and compelling point throughout about the strong feelings of guilt, of blame, and associated behaviours.
This is a compassionate book but it is powerful and direct, and because of that I feel it is best read in conjunction with actually seeing a therapist.
I believe talking with a therapist (who understands/works with childhood abuse) at the same time you read Toxic Parents can be a very powerful tool.
I had my first counselling session today, and mostly she just wanted me to read books, once she'd got some idea of how I'm feeling and why.
While much of this book didn't apply to me, much of it could help me.
While it does seem to set out a bit of an only-one-way attitude to it, which I don't think is true, it can definitely be helpful.
It's easy to read, in the sense that it doesn't use complicated vocabulary, and it's quite matter-of-fact.I felt quite resistant to parts of it, but that didn't mean it wasn't true on some level.
Definitely worth reading, and if you have a counsellor/therapist, talking over your reactions with them.
I think everyone should read this, regardless of what kind of relationship they had with their parents.
It can be used to detect toxic people and relationships in life and also shows what kind of damage it can cause.
EDIT: 6/30/2017This book gave me a new perspective about forgiveness and I still think a lot about this particular passage: "I also believe that forgiveness is appropriate only when parents do something to earn it.
Toxic parents, especially the more abusive ones, need to acknowledge what happened, take responsibility, and show a willingness to make amends.
wow!
this book really did help me to recognize how certain things affect/affected me throughout my childhood, and to the present.
and i really like the first rule "you do not have to forgive." if you truly have not recovered from a parents toxic ways, you do not have to forgive them, cuz forgiving the toxic parent w/o addressing how they harmed/ affect(ed) you is like just sweeping the issue under the rug..
i highly recommend this book to anyone who had or has to deal with toxic parents ( drunks, addicts, verbal abusers, neglecters, etc.).
it was very helpful and eye opening!
This was a quick read but really didn't offer any useful, or real world, advice on how to overcome toxic parenting and reclaim your life. The book mostly focused on realizing and confronting the toxic parents. I would have given this book 2.5 stars if I could.
This book highlights many different aspects of abusive or non-nurturing parenting issues and helps relate to the reader by use of stories and cases the author had experienced in her practice.
Toxic Parents also makes sure to give suggestions on how to handle situations when confronting your parents, lists to determine how effected you actually are by your parents, and steps in overcoming the issues and breaking the cycle of abuse.
When paired with therapy, this book is really effective and helped me realize that I can no longer hide from my issues and pain, I must confront it in order to become stronger.
This book was so painful for me I had to stop reading it. I picked it back up a few more times with breaks in between. You have to be ready to handle a book that makes you look at these very difficult issues. I do believe it's essential to read if you are going to work with children and or come from a background of abuse of ANY KIND.
Wow. Unbelievable. This book explains you.It opens your eyes. It teaches you.It helps you.I almost cried after reading some painful experiences in the book.It's so sad to see how a bad parent can damage his/her daughter/son.I totally recommend this book to anyone. Even if you didn't have a toxic parent.Susan, you're my hero.


For example, while I am open to information and aim to improve, I know my brother would either scoff at the book, or agree with the contents but say the book would help others (and not realize the impact our parents had on him).
This is the reaction of someone who is not open to change, nor realize they MUST change to acquire true happiness.Man, this was a hard book to read.If you have unresolved issues with your parents, please read this.
For example, my parents never drank (my dad only socially), but that part screamed out at me because of similar circumstances.The really creepy part?
Susan Forward has done such tremendous good in writing this book. I'd advise all my Desi kid friends to read this. Our parents are classic "Controllers." And we are all fucked up because of it, tbh. But Forward helps set forth the work we have to do to be better.
Healing and insightful but painful to read. Life's a bitch, I guess. No matter what you do, you'll still be on the wrong side, in the wrong life and in therapy.
Šioje knygoje mokslų daktarė, garsi psichologė, dėstytoja, grupinių terapinių užsiėmimų ir mokymų vadovė Susan Forward dalijasi tikromis jau suaugusių vaikų, kuriuos užaugino toksiški tėvai, istorijomis.
Šie nesumeluoti pasakojimai gali padėti išsilaisvinti iš žlugdančių santykių su tėvais ir atrasti naują pasaulį, pripildytą pasitikėjimo savimi, vidinės stiprybės ir emocinės nepriklausomybės.
Pirmojoje nagrinėjama, kaip elgiasi skirtingų tipų toksiški tėvai.
Apžvelgiama, kokiais įvairiais būdais jie skaudino savo vaikus ir gal vis dar tebeskaudina.
Antroje dalyje yra aptariama ir paaiškinama, ką daryti, kad būtų galima atkurti jėgų pusiausvyrą bendraujant su vaikus traumuojančiais tėvais.
دارم عاشقِ این زن میشم :))
Whether or not you think you had toxic parents growing up, I would suggest reading this book.
The book also gives you guidelines and suggestions, which also letting you know of the consequences, good and bad, of decisions you may make.I read through this book quickly, and it's not a huge book.
It give a great sense of validation, knowing that you're not exaggerating, you're not overreacting, and that how your parents raised you was in fact damaging.
It also gives you hope that you can overcome all the negativity and damage and enjoy your life.
There are so many details and insights to consider...I learned a ton of things that helped me with my history as well as support of what had happened with my own children.
It's hard to deal with things sometimes that are from the past but when they start to invade your dreams and waking moments then it's time to look at them again.
Maybe do some journeling, artwork, or talking to someone that understands what you are dealing with.This book is a resource...I've looked at it for many years...finally read it cover to cover...and have used it recently for encouragement and insight with current issues.Something you may want to have in your library permanently!
