https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99953.Collected_Writings
I read Rights of Man in my first year as an undergraduate, and most of the others at a later date.
Paine's writing both benefits and suffers from the fact that he drank huge quantities of brandy before putting quill to paper.
He is scarcely a great philosopher, but an old libertarian socialist like me would be hard put not to love him.
He nearly brought democracy to England a hundred or more years before it actually arrived.
The great appeal of Rights of Man came from arguing (and apparently proving with dubious arithmetic) that by getting rid of jobbery and corruption in Parliament, one could establish free health benefit.
It gets 5 stars just for Paines brilliant dismantling of Christianity and the Bible.
I don't see how even the most foaming at the mouth Christian could read Age of Reason and not consider the Bible at best a horribly flawed and contradictory historical document.
You'd also have to give this 5 stars for his other well known and not so well known writings in this, even though some of them are quite boring to be honest, but for no other reason its a great historical source as to what one of the "founding Fathers" opinions were on government, politics, etc.

Read this book with an open mind and Paine just might surprise you.
My perception of what the man Thomas Paine was about changed drastically (and for the better).
I gained a huge respect for him; he is far too good a man to be left to the likes of Glenn Beck.
I put him in a similar place as someone like Orwell: an eloquent defender of justice, dedicated to seeing the world how it is, and honest enough to defend his ideas, even when doing so was damaging to his career prospects and personal relationships.This particular edition is compact, well put-together, and affordable - a great addition to any library.
a must read. while some of the social issues Mr. Paine talked about are fairy outdated now, the rest of his writings are a must read. the level of common sense and scientific inquiry exhibited in his writings pave a path for all free thinkers and intellectuals of all ages and places to follow.
Thomas Paine's intellect and skill at persuasive writing should be studied far and wide. It's a shame we only read excerpts of "Common Sense" in school.
The history is told for the point (the moral) of the story, not to be an exacting account of human history per se.Paine supports the Biblical Job in the notion that the existence of God is self-evident and beyond dispute, while also supporting the notion that man can never know or understand God fully.
If moral truths were so self-evident, why would human history be so nasty, as evidenced already...?The second part of the Age of Reason focuses on Paine's detailed criticism of the Bible, most of which was wasted effort.
A great compilation of works of someone who had a profound influence on the American Revolution.
Some of the other minor works are expectedly more trivial in nature.
A little understanding, however, of his life will show that his popularity was much diminished by the time he wrote Age of Reason.
In that work, he seems out of his element in trying to critique various elements of the Bible with an obvious deficiency in its Ancient Near Eastern context.
This work was ably defended by a host of his contemporaries yet still carries a certain unfortunate popularity today.
With the world in such turmoil, this is a great collection that will take readers back to when all started for America. It addresses what the forefathers wanted in the new world they found themselves in and is almost exactly opposite of where America finds itself in this day and age of a President who doesn't understand and won't bother to read any of the books like this one that show why America was actually great at one time.
A historical resource that will make a rebel out of you. Freedom! Rights! Equality! Liberty or Death!!!
"He there reads, in the hand writing of the Creator himself, the certainty of his existence, and the immutability of his power; and all other bibles and testaments are to him forgeries." In his essay, "Common Sense", Paine exposes the inherit injustice and absurdity of monarchy and offers a bold explanation for the origin of governments.
Using William the Conqueror as an example (the bastard son of a prostitute who "subdued England" and "gave them law at the point of a sword"), Paine illustrates that all governments are born from banditry and gangsterism--monarchy being the most extreme expression of it.
I haven’t delved deeply into Thomas Paine’s writings.
I mainly purchased this for The American Crisis and The Age of Reason.
But I’m a fan of the publisher.
Library of America puts together visually appealing, well-edited compilations.
I doubt they are always the best editions, but they are consistently good.
I also own three of their Willa Cather volumes and one of Mark Twain.
As far as Thomas Paine goes, he is a lesser known (and lesser liked) founding father.
. Oh yeah, and he wrote passionately for the cause of American Independence.
Reading Thomas Paine has become more important in this era of nationalistic fervor, bipartisan politics, and sophistic rhetoric.
An important fact about Thomas Paine, would be that he was thrown out of his own country for being patriotic, rather than nationalistic.This edition presents Paine's writing thoroughly.
With so much of his writing, and the nature of the texts, so much in one edition sometimes seems overwhelming.
But, it is good to remember that one can put the book down and delve into some lighter reading when necessary.
I would recommend starting with those and then move on to the books.
Outstanding.
I thoroughly enjoyed every page of this book.
I had not read Paine since high school and like many, had forgotten the importance of his role in the American Revolution.
His brave, dry, wit escaped me when I was younger and can be appreciated now.
This volume in my opinion, is a fine collection of Paine's work, presented beautifully in a high quality book.
If you would enjoy reading a solid, logical argument,(Paine is difficult to refute) or want to read one who poked fun at the enemy Generals during the war (and lived to tell about it), then you have discovered the right book.DR
This one gets the "did-not-finish" tag because I only read The Age of Reason. Part One is a fairly good philosophical takedown of Christianity as a religion (Paine was a deist), but Part Two, with its attempt to discredit the entire Bible bit by bit, falls flat. It's possible that when The Age of Reason was written no one had a counterargument for things like: "The gospels contradict each other, so they can't possibly be true," but nowadays this is Exegesis 101.
If you want to know the intent of our founding fathers, read what they had to say! Thomas Paine's writings are an important part of what they thought and said at the time. Government was not meant to be small, nor were social programs and obligations excluded from the Constitution. The proper care of the elderly and orphans were specifically talked about in Paine's works. So were payments to those who were not land owners and a social security like program.
Very long, 800 + pages, and admittedly dry at times, but still powerful and important. Highly recommended for young people, especially those leaning towards socialism or communism. The Age of Reason had a profound effect on my life and my views of religion and the afterlife. The 18th c. enlightenment movement always has and continues to have a profound effect on my life.
Absolutely not for the faint of heart. Paine approaches polemic as a blood-sport. The result is a graceful savagery that leaves all opponents maimed or destroyed. Not one of his contemporaries could have looked forward to a fusillade from this word-fighter. As a spectator, I feel all the intense emotions that would accompany a ring-side seat at the Kumite.
If you are an American, you need to read this critical work. If you are not an American, you need to read this critical work. One of the finest pieces of political prose ever conceived is captured by Paine in less than 100 pages.
This Library of America edition contains all of the writings of Thomas Paine - the United States' most politically radical Founder - that a non-scholar would likely want. Highly recommended for anyone who wants a better understanding of revolutionary-era thought or history.
Washington's sword was nothing without Paine's pen. Paine was a true Apostle of Freedom. He spent his whole life fighting for freedom and against tyranny. This is a great collection of his writings.
Some good, some mediocre, some unexpected philosophy
This is the first source that made me think I wanted to study early American history.
If you're a U.S. citizen and you know how to read, this is required reading.
Absolutely phenomenal. Common Sense, Rights of Man (Book I, particularly), and Age of Reason are especially must-reads for any lover of independent thought.
for historical american figures, Thomas Paine (and his work) is in the top 3 of all time- next to John Wesley Powell and a third that is yet to be determined
I just reread almost all of Paine. Fantastic.
"Thomas Paine : Collected Writings : Common Sense / The Crisis / Rights of Man / The Age of Reason / Pamphlets, Articles, and Letters (Library of America) by Thomas Paine (1995)"
Common Sense is a great place to start.
I psychotically love Thomas Paine's ideas and writing style. Also, he's not that terrible-looking for a colonist.
