https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114163.Captivated
Pros Hanky Panky Hot Enough to Set the Book on Fire- Is it wrong that I’m listing it as a pro? Should I even be concerned that I’m listing it as a pro?What the hell, I’m gonna totally list this as a pro.This book may have been a hot mess, but DAMN does Nora Roberts know how to write sex scenes. What Nash and Morgana lack in an actual relationship they totally make up for it in the bedroom. In fact, and I really hate to say this, I think they might have actually been better off as ‘frenemies wit
Should I even be concerned that I’m listing it as a pro?What the hell, I’m gonna totally list this as a pro.This book may have been a hot mess, but DAMN does Nora Roberts know how to write sex scenes.
Anyhoo, it didn’t do any favors to this book at all, and they basically served as stock side characters for Morgana.Tell Him the Goddamn Truth!- In the only actual conflict this book decides to have, (view spoiler)[Nash gets Morgana knocked up and due to his relationship issues cause he’s a cad, leaves her.
Quick review:Cover: Boring Rating:  NC-17 Steaminess:  Steamy.
Thumbs Up:  3Overall: I like Nora, but this wasn’t a home run for me.Characters: Well WrittenPlot: Interesting twist on witches.Page Turner: Somewhat Series Cont.?
Recommend:  MaybeBook Boyfriend: I guess Nash.SUMMARY (50 words or less)This story died for me when with the insta-love happened.
And there was nothing else really for me to grab hold of to enjoy the story.
The ending was interesting to see how everything would wrap up.
Not sure I’ll do a blog post.
I guess it’s a wait and see.
Maybe I might post a picture here if I decided not to do a full review
Even though she hates the thought of destiny, she knows she cannot avoid it and be happy.Nash is equally intrigued by the beautiful and smart Morgana, but he thinks it all a hoax, a way to have more people in her shop.
I loved this book again, and it will be re-read a few times in the future.
Morgana is such a great character, as is Nash, though he is truly blind and stubborn at times.
I loved the bantering between the cousins, and am looking forward to reading their books again as well.
Let's just say I wasn't .
Captivated, that is.
Paranormal Nora Roberts, this time with a family of witches.
Maybe I'm just not in the mood for this book, but I felt totally disconnected from the characters and their passion.
The narrative relating their feelings just didn't grab me and left me totally uninvolved with what happened to them and why.
Oscar winning screenwriter, Nash Kirkland seeks out the beautiful, self-professed witch, Morgana Donovan to help him with background on a screenplay he wants to write.
He is a total skeptic and she is drawn to him as no other before.
Captivated by Nora Roberts is the first book in the Donovan trilogy.
Morgana is a witch, natural born.
Nash makes movies about the paranormal, and wants to interview the local legend- a witch.
Nash doesn't believe Morgana is REALLY a witch.
Once he realizes Morgana is telling the truth, and admits to himself that he's in love with her, our hero starts to have doubts.
A sweet fairy tale type book, with some PG13/R rated heat, no violence, and very little language, and a happy ending.
I loved this book and can't wait to read the next one.
Captivated (The Donovan Legacy)Captivated is the first of three book series. This is the love story of Morana and Nash. Morana is a from a long line of witch and she run a shop that sell spill and other witch things. Nash is a writer who want to write about witch so he come to Monterey, California to talk to Morana and a love story begins.
Love Nora Roberts. Magic and romance. Sigh.
I don't know how to put my mind in this book. Flat. That's all I think about this book. The heroine, a.k.a. The Witch, knowing too much, as if none of the future can shocked her. Boring much?Too mystical, too fairy, too sparkling. Not this time.
I love writer characters and Nash is one of my favorite story tellers.
It's nice being inside his head, seeing things the way he sees them.
But with Nash's level of cynicism it can't be cured just by a normal woman.
I like the fact that she doesn't let fate dictate her life and the same time Morgana knows when and how to accept when things cannot be changed.
I liked that she doesn't use magic to tamper with people's lives, that she knows how to control her gift.Captivated the title fits Morgana and Nash's story perfectly.
Love is the greatest magic in the world.
Narrator is not good with male voices.The main plot was Nash a movie writer/director thought Morgana was a charlatan witch.
He wanted to write a movie about witches.
She was a real witch and told him truths.
He liked what she told him but he thought they were tricks - not the real thing.
Meanwhile they are sexually drawn to each other.I listened to more than half the book and then skipped to the end.
The sequel “Entranced” was better.AUDIOBOOK NARRATOR:Therese Plummer was very good with general story telling and women’s voices.
But she was not good with Nash.
it started of quite boring but still interesting as i got a little chance on how the imagination and thinking of a screenwriter , with the description of how nash see surrounding him and how those are going to inspired his writing .
i loved how nash who is a warm man but afraid of the commitment , afraid of not being able to love or being loved by someone start to believe when the time he found that one right lady , the love they had will eventually led him .
This a story about a witch called Morgana Donovan, who is exceptionally beautiful (as in all Nora Robert books) and Nash Kirkland, a blockbuster horror film screenplay writer, who is again very very handsome (as in all Nora Robert books).There is this phrase used for Nash is the book, that I liked a lot - tall, tanned and tasty.Okay, so Nash is writing a script on witches and he meets Morgana for research purposes.
Being a script writer, he is actually showed visualizing the scene.I really liked this book a lot and wold recommend it to anyone who is in a mood for a light and stress-free read
Sadly, this is my least favorite of Nora's books. There are parts I thoroughly enjoyed and I loved the narrator, she is one of my favorites, but it wasn't enough to have me finish this series. I just couldn't keep up or connect with the characters.
I really enjoyed this book. It was a very sensual and passionate romance and a great start for a series. I am looking forward to starting the next book.
Cute Nora Roberts book with a paranormal twist. 3.5
Fun story, loved the magic but Nash had some abusive characteristics that made our hard up like him overall.
Well, that was...something.
Old school Nora with a PNR twist. Light, easy read. I think this is connected to another series, so research is in order.
Morgana is from a magical family who have various gifts.
Nash writes screenplays for movies with a supernatural theme.
He has heard of a witch in a small town that runs a novelty store.
He goes looking to gain another point of view of witches not believing for one minute that he is talking to a real one.
This is a Nora Roberts book, so there is a love story.
This one is a whirlwind and love at first sight.
There is lots of imagery and emotion packed into the whole thing.
Not as good as her later books, but it has some good scenes.
After re-reading Charmed, the third book in the Donovan Legacy, I really wanted to go back and re-read Morgana's story. Captivated by Nora Roberts was another great re-read for me, but I do like Charmed more.. What I Liked:   Morgana is a heroine I can get behind. Not only that, but I would love to be her friend, because she will always be there for those she cares about.  I love how open Morgana is about who she is, especially with the fact that's she a witch. She never hesitates to tell Nash e
After re-reading Charmed, the third book in the Donovan Legacy, I really wanted to go back and re-read Morgana's story.
Captivated by Nora Roberts was another great re-read for me, but I do like Charmed more..
I love how open Morgana is about who she is, especially with the fact that's she a witch.
He's totally into the peculiar, and because of that, he's always hearing odd stories, which is how he learns about Morgana, who claims she's a witch.
I mentioned this in my review of Charmed, but I just don't like the spells.
And there are more spells in Captivated than there are in Charmed.
This was a very fun book with just a flair of the supernatural and fantasy.
I liked that Morgana doesn’t push her beliefs or skills, but is quietly amused by those who doubt without coming across as condescending.
When Morgana finally decides she’s had enough, I laughed out loud.The best part of all the characters throughout the book is that they’re unabashedly themselves.
In romance novels one of the characters so often has low self-esteem and it can get repetitive.
Romance fans who like the flair of subtle fantasy thrown in.See all my reviews and more at www.ReadingToDistraction.com or @Read2Distract
I like this storyline and roberts has done i before...mortal falls for witch all the while not believing in magic but I enjoyed very little else about this.
There tended to be a metaphysical quality about it and with them and the book as a whole there was this everpresent feeling that they were forced together because of fate and some truly appalling behavior was sort of laid at the feet of that.
And this didn't have the feel of fate knows best and everything works out like it shouldve but rather it was forcing two noncompliant people into an awful situation.
classic novel from the enchanting series The Donovan Legacy .
Fascinating and irresistible, the mysterious Donovan cousins share a secret that's been handed down through generations -- a secret that sets them apart from ordinary beings.
Nash Kirkland had sought out the alluring Morgana Dovovan to help him research his latest screenplay, though the hardheaded skeptic didn't believe for a minute she was what she professed to be.
But, as Morgana revealed herself to him, Nash found himself falling under her bewitching spell.
So how could he be sure the irresistible passion he felt for Morgana was real and not just some conjurer's trick?
Ahora la recuerdo muuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuy vagamente (me acordé una escena gracias a otro review), pero claramente estas tres estrellas no se las merece, de lo contrario no me lo hubiera olvidado al punto de no poder relacionar portada con historia, sinopsis con historia, nombres con historia, cualquier cosa con historia jaja Malísimo lo mío.Así que a lo que quiero llegar es a: sí, le puse tres estrellas.
Tres años después ni siquiera recordaba haber leído el libro, yendo más allá, NI SIQUIERA RECORDABA HABER LEÍDO A LA AUTORA, así que evidentemente pasó sin pena ni gloria por mi vida.
I can't tell you how much I wanted to love this book.
A real witch running a metaphysical shop who has real witch powers and cool pets and falls for a dude who isn't a witch and shows him her witch side...
The story had nothing to keep my attention but that: A real witch who runs a metaphysical shop who falls for a dude who isn't a witch and shows him her witch side.That's it....I just wanted more.If anyone out there has a better witch story to share with me I'd love to hear it :)
Unbeknownst to me, this was the first Nora Roberts book I had ever read.
It was also one of the first real romance novels I had ever read, and though I had long since lost the book and forgotten both title and author, it didn't take me long to recognize and remember the story when I started listening to it.
It was just as good as I remember, a fun and romantic story with a binding thread of magic weaving through the tale.
This is a fun read for any Nora Roberts fan.
No es que sea malo, es que ha pasado sin pena ni gloria, me encantan las historias de brujas, pero quizás más naturales, porque Morgana es más una bruja de estilo Embrujadas, mucho poder y todo muy fácil. Y eso no me convence. Y tampoco me convence el tipo de romance que describe Nora Roberts, no creo que los hombres se comporten así, tan fascinados y tan suplicantes.
Really more of a 3 1/2 star book. An entertaining read but I tend to like more conflict in my plots. I read it almost in one sitting so obviously kept my attention.
Gostei bastante deste livro. Adorei a Morganna e o Nash!
Could not finish this book. I started. Stopped. Went back. Stopped again.Sigh.The story was lacking something.
