https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/91659.Gabriela_Clavo_y_Canela
Recently I saw that a reader on GR had started Gabriela, Clove, and Cinnamon and I instantly felt delighted to see that title come up - rather like unexpectedly running into a friend from your past. Years ago I read a great deal of South American literature and this novel has remained one of my favorites. The story is often humorous, lushly descriptive of the people and the land, and it has an exuberant characters and plot. Rather like being at a Mardi Gras.
Maybe, one can describe it like how Gabriela's seasoning (she is a cook) is described, tongue-in-cheek, in this book: somewhere between the sublime and the divine.This book gives you all the joys you find in reading.
Here, with Jorge Amado's wry humor and perfect timing I really laughed, with true sound of laughter, like a baby being tickled, sometimes because of just one or two words he used.
Gabriela is a mystery, and a mystery is by definition inexplicable.'"'A beautiful body and the soul of a bird,' said Josue...."'The soul of a child, perhaps,' the Captain speculated."'Of a child?
Nel Brasile dei colori, dei profumi e delle spezie del 1925, per la precisione a Ilhéus, dove ci si prodiga per le piantagioni di cacao, la bella Gabriella, dalla pelle color cannella e dal profumo di garofano, giunge con il suo carico di vitalità e passionalità.
Gabriella è una donna che non cammina, ma danza, non parla, ma canta come un usignolo, una tipica donna mulatta che cambierà la vita degli abitanti di questa città brasiliana, con il suo modo di fare e di amare e la sua cucina a base di spezie.Amado riesce a dare vita a una storia di passioni, di brio con personaggi (forse troppi), che danno lustro alla vicenda.
E non è poi indispensabile essere ricchi.Cinque stelle perche Mundinho Falcao è sputato José Mourinho: nel lontano '58, quando Gabriella vide la luce, Amado non poteva saperlo.Cinque stelle perchè il musulmano siriano Nacib dà lezioni di civiltà e tolleranza: invece di lavare l'onore sporcato dalle corna di Gabriella ripulisce il certificato di matrimonio.
Scomparso questo, scomparse le corna.Cinque stelle perchè le ingiustizie sociali (ci sono, eccome: Amado era un comunistazzo giusto) non hanno potere sulle speranze degli ultimi, braccianti schiavi del cacao dei colonnelli ex cowboys.Cinque stelle perchè Gabriella, un pò ingenua, un pò figurina di presepe una cosa l'ha capita: a che serve il matrimonio?Cinque stelle perchè mi è dispiaciuto fosse finito; e se un tomazzo che non finisce più ti lascia pure il rimpianto allora è un cinque stelle sicuramente.

Jorge Amado, author of "Gabriela, Clove and Cinnamon" tells a good, sometimes funny, story about a coastal, cacao town in Bahia, Brazil.
The subtitle, clove and cinnamon, while hinting at the cooking in the story, refers to the fragrance and appearance of the young woman Gabriela, a migrant who survived the journey from the drought-stricken backlands to Ilhéus, a town in transition surrounded by cacao plantations whose colonels have set the tone for the town and economy.
Amado's story resolves the conflicts of the transition between the outmoded customs and the present needs to foster a town and characters in tune with their real natures.
This novel is about a town organized almost exclusively around sex and violence, but through a growing prosperity is suddenly having to reconsider this fundamental structure and become 'civilized'.
The plot teeters back and forth between the town's upcoming election and the romance between a poor woman and a rich man.
In both circumstances, there is a direct conflict between what is and what, inevitably, will be.Phoenix-like, the couple loves, then hates, then loves again.
The idea seems to be that the core of something, whether it is a person or a town, is unalterable.
Nacib views love as a form of ownership, whereas for Gabriela it is freedom.
Indeed the novel is full of women who seek to break free from the yoke of societal prejudices, from the hypocrisy of men and to re-take ownership of their bodies and emotions-whilst Gabriela’s struggle is more primitive than intellectual, it is symptomatic of the struggles the female characters face in the novel.The cadence and rhythm of Amado’s prose echoes the sensuality note just of the story, but of Ilheus and of the sultry hedonism of Bahia and and the fiery atmosphere which pervades the novel;“The prayer rose to the diaphanous, cloudless sky, with a pitiless sun-a murderous ball of fire set on the newborn pod of cacao sprouts.”Mixed in with this are the plots and political intrigues, of the Machiavellian machinations of local politics and of the wide-spread cronyism inherent in Brazilian politics as well as a series of soap opera sub-plots.
Partindo do pressuposto que a muitos viram a telenovela e menos leram o livro, opto então por apresentar, porque penso que isso seja o mais importante para os leitores portugueses, mas também brasileiros, o que tem o livro que não tem a adaptação televisiva.Desde logo o tema.
Muitas dessas histórias são criações televisivas e terminam de maneira completamente diferente por imposição do tal princípio telenoveleiro de que todos, ou quase todos, devem casar nos últimos episódios(suponho que ainda seja assim, que não sou consumidor de telenovelas).E depois, claro, o livro tem uma beleza da escrita à Jorge Amado.
The growth of the town brings artisans, progressives, and many other non-conformists...or so they say.It's funny because the book obviously shows the leftist politics of Armado, but it's not shoved in your face.
The reason he isn't put in trial for a long time is because the old fashioned people who run the town believe she deserved it, as they view the women as caring for the children and her husband.
She is a simple yet lovely woman.The book is simply about the life in a small Brazilian town and a brief capture of the early life of Gabriela and Nacib.
ตอนแรกๆ จะมึนไปกับชือตัวละครแลวอยากยอมแพ แตพอเริมเขาไปในจักรวาลเมืองอิเญวส กสนุกและผูกพันกับตัวละคร เหนความชาวบานเมามอย และสังคมชายเปนใหญทีนาแขยง เหนความรักเรารอนทีฝืนศีลธรรม (ขนบ?) ไมไหว ตอนทายๆ นีแอบรองไหเลย แตจะอานยากบางสวนทีเคาะวรรคผิด
ตอนแรกๆ จะมึนไปกับชื่อตัวละครแล้วอยากยอมแพ้ แต่พอเริ่มเข้าไปในจักรวาลเมืองอิเญวส์ ก็สนุกและผูกพันกับตัวละคร เห็นความชาวบ้านเม้ามอย และสังคมชายเป็นใหญ่ที่น่าแขยง เห็นความรักเร่าร้อนที่ฝืนศีลธรรม (ขนบ?) ไม่ไหว ตอนท้ายๆ นี่แอบร้องไห้เลย แต่จะอ่านยากบางส่วนที่เคาะวรรคผิด
gabriela, clove and cinnamon (gabriela, cravo e canela) is a radiant and masterful work from brazilian novelist jorge amado.
set mostly within ilhéus, a city in the coastal region of bahia, gabriela is a magnificently composed tale rich with convincing characters and absorbing subplots.
with its vivid and unforgettable characters, gabriela, clove and cinnamon is an imaginative and absorbing work of fiction that leaves an enduring impression on the reader.
thus it has always been, in every society.color of cinnamon,clove's sweet smell,i've come a long wayto see gabrielle.
'E aqui termina a história de Nacib e Gabriela, quando renasce a chama do amor de uma brasa dormida nas cinzas do peito.'
La novela refleja una sociedad (una incipiente ciudad brasileña, a principios del siglo XX) en la que el progreso empieza a cambiar los modos de actuar y relacionarse.
En la que se pasa de dirimir cualquier disputa a tiros a una política más "civilizada" (con compra de votos, alianzas interesadas y enla que siguen gobernando los de siempre con otras maneras)Siempre pensé -por el título y la sinopsis- que sería una novela de corte romántico; pero ni los amores de Gabriela y Nacib son lo más relevante de la historia, ni hay demasiado amor en el libro.
If the other members of the book discussion group enjoy a book, I will not.Jorge Amado introduces us to the fictionalized version of his home town; Ilheus, Brazil.
Most of the wealthy men come to Ilheus to drink at Nacib's bar and sleep with their mistresses.
At the same time Nacib is looking for a new cook and finds Gabriela in the slave market.
Gabriela is young, beautiful, and most importantly a good cook.
But is marriage really what will be best for Gabriela, a free spirit?I liked the book, mostly because it sounded like something I read for an old professor of mine.
Originally published as Gabriela craco e canela.
Translated from the Portuguese by James L Taylor and William Grossman.Quote:Colour of CinnamonClove's sweet smellI've come a long way To see Gabrielle.Opening:OF THE SUN AND THE RAIN AND A SMALL MIRACLEIn that year of 1925, when the idyll of the mulatto girl Gabriela and Nacib the Arab began, the rains continued long beyond the necessary season.
Southern Bahia ooooooh, want!!
Page 16 - Ilhéus began to be known as the Queen of Southern Bahia, an area of the state dominated by cacao.My second-hand copy has not been read before beyond page 174 and I wonder how anyone could have stopped reading at that point *shakes head*#67 TBR Busting 2013
What a nice story.
Amado created a perfect univers; as you read, you feel you are part of that univers.
there is so much you can write about this book, there are so many concepts you can extract from it.
The book is the brasilian society during the cacao boom.
What i read in Galeano's book (the open veins of Latin America),i got to experience here, but in another form, as a novel.This is a feel good book, which you don't want to end.
A book which in the end you close and say -that was a nice story.
Ho trovato questo libro tra gli scaffali dei fumetti e dei vecchi Geronimo Stilton e non immaginavo potesse essere così interessante. Non pensavo che mi catturasse in questa maniera, che mi facesse vivere l'inizio del novecento in un piccolo paese del Brasile. Ho vissuto assieme ai personaggi, ho vissuto i loro conflitti politici, ideologici e amorosi. Ho vissuto anche le loro gioie, i loro progressi e la modernizzazione di Ilheùs. Ho vissuto l'arrivo di Gabriella con la pelle color cannella e il profumo di garofano.
a story in two plots, one being how production of cacao and idealistic politics impact a brasilian town and the other being that of a poor girl named gabriela who goes to work for a foreign man and becomes his wife. every time gabriela comes back into the story, she gives it life. this book is a sensory experience and the precise simplicity of the writing is gorgeous.
Jorge Amado’s novel paints a compelling portrait of a town full of characters forging a new way of life from the old social structures of the previous one.
The novel begins with a bifurcated duality pitting the conservative establishment against the more liberal cultural elite, with both movements finding champions in characters that are physically and socially representative of their unique paradigms.
Driven by numerous examples of increasingly strong women who are unafraid to stand up for their beliefs, the town begins to reexamine old customs and establish new traditions that are more in keeping with the melting pot of a community that is quickly finding its own sense of self.
In "Gabriela, Clove and Cinnamon," Amado characterizes Brazilian culture throughout the 1920s through what could be considered the stereotypical sugar cane start-up town of Ilheus.
Although I admit that Amado did a decent job of describing the general life and culture throughout this time period and locale, I could not get past his writing styles.
Because the author so much focused on the political life of Ilheus, I figured more would be answered than we were left with, and this left a sour taste in my mouth.
Es una novela cargada de muchos matices, por ejemplo el machismo que existe en la época pero a la vez de personajes como Gabriela y Malvina que rompen los moldes y son cada uno a su manera rebeldes que buscan la libertad.
Por supuesto la doble moral de los habitantes.
En fin, un libro muy agradable de leer, bien escrito y que durante toda la lectura sentí como si estuviera en esta región viviendo y enterándome de los secretos, los engaños y los chismes.
This is a cute little book, which, in the tradition of what little I've seen of South American fiction, meanders around a great deal.
I would have been much more inclined to a book about a woman of that time and social stratum defying her family, and what happened to her, but we don't get that.
I am not sure what to think about the translation; I get the feeling that it turned out to be more...
It just feels like some of the characters talk like little kids, despite being otherwise adult.
Una novela que transmite alegría y encanto.Amado contagia su gran aprecio por la vida en esas hermosas descripciones, costumbres, lugares, comidas y tradiciones...Los personajes de Nacib y Gabriela son dulces....Inspiran por su candidez, su nobleza y su ternura...Ambos me encantaron...En contraste con todo lo anterior, esa necedad de aparentar lo que no se es.
Genial su forma de escribir.Me gustaría estar en Ilhéus, ver el trabajo en las plantaciones, saborear una rica jaca y disfrutar del hermoso canto del sofrê....Y concluyo con esta frase que me encantó: "Hay ciertas flores que se marchitan en los jarrones"...
Terre di vallate e monti, di gole profonde.
Terre dov’egli era piantato.
Lei distese le braccia, lo attirò a sé.”Ah Brasile, sei nei miei sogni!
The main plot is a story about love between a mulatto girl, Gabriela, and an Arab-Brazilian, Nacib, who together develop their relationship and amorous endeavors in the city of Ilhéus that is experiencing political and social evolution.
An incomparable portrayal of love and pain, every character in the story, although revolving around the clove and cinnamon emanating from Gabriela, each has their unique story of happiness and affliction.
Whether it be in the creation of a port, or the reconciliation between two lovers, the story of Nacib and Gabriela is the story of an Ilhéus that must learn to cope with it's ever-changing facade.
Set in 1920s Brazil, in the dangerous cacao plantation region of Bahia, Gabriela, Clove and Cinnamon captivates with romance and danger from page 1 to 426. The writing is like if Gabriel Garcia Marquez and Laura Esquivel had a Brazilian baby whose literary scope evokes magic but his subject is starkly real. The gorgeous prose is matched with a masterful narrative structure, full of violence and love, and it is broadened by the perspective Amado gives us on the cost of modernization in a region newly experiencing globalization. Will be reading more Amado ASAP
Romanzo di colori, di sapori, di profumi, di terra e di mare, di violenza e di passione, di pregiudizio e di razzismo, di pettegolezzo, di tradizione e di libertà, di potere e sottomissione, descrittivo di tutte le età di conquista
ربما هي الترجمة من جعلت العمل ممل وثقيلا إلى هذه الدرجة! تهت بين نسيب وغابرييلا وحقول الكاكاو وسخونة البرازيل ومطرها الغريب حتى لم أعد أمسك زمام القصة جيدا! لعلها الترجمة ولعل أحدكم يشجعني على إعادة قراءتها ومنح الرواية فرصة أخرى خصوصا مع كم الشهرة والجوائز التي حظيت بها
"Life was good, one only had to live it. To warm oneself in the sun, then take a cold bath; to eat guavas and mangos, to sing songs, to sleep with a young man. And to dream of another."
