https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/966197.More_About_Paddington
There are several ways in which joining Goodreads has changed my reading habits, a good example of this being that I now sometimes re-read books that I enjoyed as a child. This is largely due to Kirsty's influence. Her relishing of children's books has been most contagious :-)This time the treat was a book about Paddington bear.  His life is full of well meant plans that go wildly askew, warm and forgiving friendships (he is often in need of forgiveness), and great and puzzling conundrums for a
There are several ways in which joining Goodreads has changed my reading habits, a good example of this being that I now sometimes re-read books that I enjoyed as a child.
His life is full of well meant plans that go wildly askew, warm and forgiving friendships (he is often in need of forgiveness), and great and puzzling conundrums for a bear from Peru."Paddington found that Christmas took a long time to come.
Each morning when he hurried downstairs he crossed the date off the calendar, but the more days he crossed off the farther away it seemed.".A generous hug of a book ♥
Another brilliant and hilarious installment about Paddington and his adventures. My favourite chapter has to be when he attempts to decorate his room and accidently wallpapers the door! I couldn't stop laughing when I read the sentence: "I'm a patriotic man said Mr Brown but I draw the line at bears playing the national anthem at 6 am. Especially on the xylophone." Pure genius.
Her eve bir Paddington şart! :) Bu kitapta da yine bolca maceralar yaşıyoruz. Paddington hala sakar ve tatlı. Kesinlikle her çocuğun seveceği bir dost!Almanızı ve okumanızı kesinlikle tavsiye ederim. :)
*Listened to on holiday*Still love Paddington (gosh I'm sounding like a Wilding!)
Oh, what joy! I wasn't a fan of Paddington until I listened to this audiobook. I'd never read the books before but they're so charming, particularly via audiobook. It made me watch Paddington the movie, and I'm off to see Paddington 2 soon!
But like the author Michael Bond wrote, people always benefit from the fixes Paddington gets himself into,"however tenuously." I laughed out loud several times while reading about the intrepid bear's adventures in this book, which include celebrating Christmas and his birthday.
Paddington attempts to become, among other things, a photographer, a detective, a house painter and a snowbear (You'll just have to read it).
Still, I am a little worried about his involvement in any national celebration that would involve a bonfire (see Guy Fawkes' Day).
He is one of Great Britain's national treasures.
This one wasn't as good as the first one but it still had some funny, silly moments that I liked about Paddington. The reason I gave the first book 4 stars and this one 3 stars - is the way Mr Bond is 'humanizing' the bear especially in the first book, where Paddington "eats bacon". I'm sorry, what?Bears don't eat bacon, so why should Paddington eat it?? It's just something that annoys me in children literature.
I'm re-reading the Paddington series and this one is a treat. Paddington is a teddy bear living with the Brown family and he goes on great adventures. Highly recommend!My Rating: 5+ stars
Paddington is still living with the Browns, getting into scrapes and being washed up by Mrs. Bird, the housekeeper.
Along the way, he has elevenses with his friend Mr. Gruber, learns about Guy Fawkes day, and eats his fair share of orange marmalade.Strengths: There is nothing depressing in this book.
Even though Paddington is far from home and his Aunt Lucy, he doesn't whine about it.
What a relief, after all of the thoroughly depressing middle grade books I've read this year.
Perhaps the movie will gain the books a new audience, but I have a distinct feeling that the target demographic for the movies is ages about 3-10.
I bought the CD sets of this and A Bear Called Paddington with Logan was almost 4.
In this book, Fry realized that Mr Gruber was a Hungarian immigrant and so changed his accent and we both found that a little confusing, but other than that, this recording is just as charming and funny as the first.
These are unabridged and Stephen Fry is amazing with different regional accents to help make it clear who is talking.
I've tried reading others of the Paddington books aloud, but it's not the same.
I wish Fry would record them all!
This book has taught my son a lot of things, like about what Guy Fawkes Day is (information that he 
More About Paddington is a truly delightful read. I find his adventures most amusing. In his own words "Things happen to me - I'm that sort of bear!"Paddington is kind hearted, but not everything goes to plan, despite his confidence! I particularly enjoyed chapter two, A Spot of Decorating - it's absolutely hilarious, and I can imagine it will be a favourite chapter for many readers. Yes, Paddington encounters lots of adventures, and his antics are fun and lovable! I look forward to reading more stories and adventures about this delightful character.
Podling 4's current crush on Paddington guarantees that I'll be catching up on all of the books in the days to come. She's gotten to the point that she likes to predict exactly what's going to go wrong in each story, and we're both enjoying trying to anticipate what Paddington's going to do next. (It's never anything good, and the fact that Paddington is able to remain loved by the Browns after precipitating disaster after disaster is no doubt part of the draw for this particular child.)
The second book about Paddington. Still an amazing, cozy and funny read. He is the sweetest little bear. In the first book we followed Paddington as he moved into the Brown's home - in this book, he's a bit more settled and we follow him celebrate christmas and Guy Fawkes day, experimenting with being a decorator, a photographer and a detective and other stories - lots of opportunities for Paddington to get into trouble!
I've decided that I like Paddington even better than Winnie-the-Pooh. He amuses me to no end! I can't believe I didn't read these as a child. The scrapes that he gets into are laugh-out-loud funny. Great choice for family read-alouds.
Just as charming as the first! These little stories (each chapter is a separate adventure) are so sweet and funny, and the perfect length for a bedtime read aloud! The kids are still giggling (days later) about the Bonfire Night episode.
In my search for all things Stephen Fry (& Hugh Laurie), this book came up with Fry's narration. So I HAD to give it a listen. Plus I love stuffed bears, and this did remind me of taking my little brother to the library. Paddington became a favorite of mine when I read to him!!
Easy to read. My daughter seems to like the series so It looks like I will be reading them all at some point. It's a classic and very tame for my tastes. Simple stories for kids. I like the way Paddington always gets into messes but never hurts anyone or anything. He is a very lovable bear.
Just like the first book, this was a great book. More nice and funny adventures of a bear called Paddington. I love it. My new resolution is to buy and read one new Paddington book every year!
What can I say, another lovely childbook about the clumsily , charming bear from darkest Peru who are discovering the world and stumbling from one adventure into the next :)
Paddington is always getting into mischief, even when he's not. How could anyone not love him?
love reading about paddington's wacky adventures!!! :)
These include his introduction to trying to use a camera, his attempts at being a detective, Guy Fawkes Day, Christmas, and snow.My Thoughts: Oh Paddington!
I’m just like Paddington and say screw it and attempt to do the thing myself.
But I guess some people are immune to this cute little bear.
This guy acts like (I’ma leave that statement alone cause this is a kid’s set of stories).
And what I find appealing in these stories is I know Paddington doesn’t try to do these things but he always ends up shutting Mr. Grubber up.
Overall a VERY cute little story.Rating:61/2
If you're trying to raise children who will indulgently let you read them Saki and Wodehouse when they are a little older, these are pretty good starter food for sardonic little cubs.
And if that's really your plan, I'm sure they'll get all the cynicism they need in life from you, and should thus be given an innocent set of mishaps involving a bear to prevent them becoming twelve year old curmudgeons.Anyway, the thing that becomes more and more apparent reading these books is how many of the gags work by taking Paddington's perspective.
Almost none of it is due to him being a bear, and when it is, it's bear as personality: "bears will be bears." Even when it's physical, it's not at his expense.
The little bear moved in with Henry, Mary, Jonathan and Judy Brown, and was soon quite at home with his marmalade sandwiches and strange suede hat.In this novel, Paddington gets up to mischief - in fact, more than mischief, for he is always up to mischief in his slightest of moods.
No; he gets up to the most cheeky, Paddington-y, accidental mischief one could possibly imagine - worse than when he tries to find out whether Mr Brown's prize painting has a more valuable one hidden underneath the picture in A Bear Called Paddington (of course, there is not).
I liked this one better, than the first--which is unusual.
This will make Paddington a timeless addition to any child's collection.
Paddington moves in the world with that same deep curiosity, and simple logic that every child would understand.
An adult is easily confused by the straightforward leaps a young child makes, yet, makes sense, in its own way--even if to the detriment, and creating a mess in the meantime.
Also, how Paddington always wants to try to do his best, and show how much he cares for his adopted family makes him a treasure.
Падінгтон кумедний - і в книжках, і у кіно. А ще він оптиміст, незважаючи ні на що! Як він робив ремонт у своїй кімнаті - то ціла історія:) Завдяки цій книжці я дізналася, хто такий Гай Фокс і навіщо раз в рік 5 листопада в Англії влаштовують феєрверки. А ще у цій книжці йдеться про перший сніг Падінгтона, очікування Різдва і власне саме святкування цього свята. З мінусів цього видання - занадто глянцеві сторінки, важко було читати з відблисками
My son and I enjoyed Bond’s second effort as much as the first. Paddington is a bear with whom you can sympathize and laugh. Mr. Curry and Mr. Gruber made larger appearances, and that helped add depth to the set of characters. The vignettes are fun and sometimes unexpected. We will read more soon.
For more reviews, check out my blog Craft-CycleAnother great collection of stories about Paddington bear. From photography to holiday shopping, Paddington is sure to entertain with his silly adventures.A nice read with wonderful sketches of Paddington and all of his misadventures.Sure to delight and warm the heart.
This was a fun little book and I think I need to find the first one to read now.  I would have no hesitation about handing this (or reading this aloud) to young children of any age. While Paddington gets himself into difficult situations on a regular basis, his intentions are always good rather than mischievous, and he generally models very good manners as well.
