https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/89399.Fortune_s_Rocks
I have read and re-read this book literally dozens of times.
Every time I take away from it something new.
It's a coming-of-age story in the loosest sense of the word, because it's so much more than that.
Shreve's writing just sings in this book.
I can hear lines from this book in my head, they're so well written.
Perhaps this book resonates particularly strongly because I could identify so well with Olivia for various reasons.
In any case, this is one of those books that I wish every one of my friends would read.
Shreve's novels are usually romances of two kinds; ones that build to a tragic emotional climax, or ones that are centered around lost love or an event in the protagonist's past that gets revealed over the course of the novel.
Shreve paces her plot flawlessly to suit this pattern, and I say that the third act is the best because, for once, Shreve tackles the moral dilemmas she usually skirts that are created by the romances in her novels.
Shreve does her best to make you accept it as a given, but it never lost its disturbing air for me, and it somewhat tainted everything else the book sought to accomplish.
Ok friends, I know Shreve's books can be a little questionable which is why I've only read one other, but this one is the winner.
She got it together this time.I love this book...a reluctant admittance.
The story of forbidden love is wrong, right, sad, joyful, and just utterly romantic even in its sheer destruction.
I think my feelings for this book may also be biased by things in my personal life around the time that really made me feel and understand all of the characters quite deeply.
It is truly an EPIC love story!
There she meets a married man with 4 children, a friend of her father's nearly 3 times her age, and the two fall madly in love, with tragic consequences.
And Shreve was diligent about ensuring the reader that this was not rape (that word was never used but often in my mind); that Olympia was mature enough to be the pursuer, not the pursuee.
The background story, that of the deplorable working conditions in the mills of the nearby town of Ely Falls, NH, becomes more relevant as the book progresses, and is almost as fascinating as the love story.
Open the pages of Fortune’s Rocks by Anita Shreve and you’ll think you’ve stepped into the world of Edith Wharton, Kate Chopin or any number of other turn-of-the-century women writers whose novels were set in refined, confining Victorian society.Do not be fooled for an instant.
And now, nearly a century later, Anita Shreve (author of The Pilot’s Wife) tries to follow in their buttoned-up bootsteps.She fails miserably.Fortune’s Rocks has all the appearance of a Wharton wannabe with scenes of oh-so-proper dinner parties, an independent-spirited heroine and a foul set of circumstances that would do Charles Dickens proud.
I had a difficult time getting into the book at first -- perhaps if Olympia had been a couple of years older at least.
I almost gave up when they started writing those long letters to each other, then it picked up around page 200 into her exile and attempt to regain her son.
The writing style was a little different than most I've seen, an unusual tense to take, but the prose was pleasant and lyrical.
Nothing that had me so taken with the book that I lost sleep over, but I didn't end up throwing it against the wall either.
The story seemed to spend to much time on one period in Olympias life and felt jumpy when it skipped to the next.
The setting and storyline was intriging enough right off the bat but it soon began to feel like a dime store romance.
Had I ever read a dime store romance, I would guess that the authors use of language was somewhat better, but the smutiness was the same.
I guess I learned what it would have been like to be a young woman, as far as not having control over one's own life.
This is going to be hard for me to review without spoilers, so here we go: (view spoiler)[ I found Olympia and Haskell's relationship to not be "love" at all in the beginning.
In fact, I wasn't sure if we were meant to believe that Olympia was a silly girl who just thought she was in love and since we were hearing the book from her point of view, that we were meant to be skeptical.
Their relationship felt so one-sided and I often felt that Haskell was too possessive and should have allowed Olympia to move on with her life - ideally with that cute lawyer, Tucker.
Guess what happens when a 15-year-old girl "falls in love" with a 41-year-old married man who can't keep his "passion" in his pants ?
Basically, this is a nicely written Victorian-era romance novel, telling the age-old story of a grown man who can't control his impulses and desires, and a teenage girl who feels that she's a grown woman.
I'm not really a "romance novel" kind of gal, I guess.
It's not my intention to demean those readers who love this type of story, but as I read along, I found myself blurting, "You idiot!" and "What a jerk!" as Haskell (the man) continued to accept and respond to Olympia's naïve and innocent approaches.
Anita Shreve is one of my favorite authors, and this is an older book of hers that I've just now gotten around to reading.
I usually like her books because they are very romantic, but also very literate.
I read it in less than two days.
Of course, the whole idea of a 15 year old girl and a 40+ man is pretty repulsive, but Shreve somehow makes it all work.
Olympia is such a strong girl, and she never wavers in her belief that what she feels is not wrong.
I wish I could find more books like this one!
An unbelievable tale of love and lose. I couldn't put this book down! I was up until 3am reading. My husband thought I was nuts. It is a tear jerker for any mother.
Um dos melhores romances que alguma vez li.
É imprevisível, historicamente fiel, sensível e um daqueles livros que parecem cheirar bem, sabem?
é que o John Haskell é um médico de 41 anos com 4 crianças e uma mulher simpática, e a privilegiada Olímpia Biddeford está prestes a celebrar o seu 16º aniversário nesse verão de 1899.
you'll love it if you want to explore the realistic possibility of an impossible romance ...You see...
John Haskell is a 41 years old doctor with 4 kids and a nice wife, and the privileged Olympia Biddeford is about to celebrate her 16th birthday in that summer of 1899.
It was Strange Fits of Passion, which I read just 6 months ago, and I must have enjoyed it otherwise I wouldn’t have borrowed this one.Fortune’s Rock is the name of a coastal resort where Olympia Biddeford and her parents have a holiday home.
We see her develop, and learn to see past social conventions.Olympia’s impetuosity in love caused the breakdown of Haskell’s marriage and his estrangement from his children, but nevertheless I can understand the compulsion to follow her heart.
No matter whether misery follows, the consummation of true love is like a burning star.This novel is reviewed by some in a rather negative fashion.
Having read a bunch of other Shreve books and enjoying most of them, I decided to give this one a try as it had been sitting on my shelf now for several years and it was time to move it along.
What I didn't realize before starting this one was that the story involved a romance between a 15 yo girl and a 41 yo man!
I am not a fan of romance and I was sure this love story would be bad.
Shreve does an excellent job with this story.
The reason I read Shreve when her books are good.
This is on my list of top 3 hated books. It is about an affair between a 16 year old girl and a 40-something married man. Shreve tries to make this sound like a romance, but I just thought that this man was a child predator/molester/rapist and the whole thing turned my stomach. It is surprising that a woman would write this sort of garbage--it seems like some man writing his perverted fantasy.
It's probably not fair for me to rate this book since I am not a fan of bodice ripping romances and don't generally read them.
But I read this for a book club so I am now qualified to comment.
The book became more interesting once the annoying love affair ended and we got to the custody battle for the child.
When the affair was going on, you were thinking - when will the pregnancy happen.
When the custody battle was going on, you were thinking - when will the foster parents die.
I like books that have some credibility and this story really had none.
A period piece, I enjoyed reading about the turn of century along the New England coastline, and the life of a young girl, Olympia Biddeford, who is fifteen and being educated by her doting father.
Unfortunately, the book went south for me when Olympia caught the eye of a married doctor, old enough to be her father and they began a furious love affair.
No thought was given to the doctor's wife, his young children nor to Olympia's own parents, who would be ruined by the scandal.
It's been a while since I read this book, but I recall carrying it around constantly hoping for the chance to read a page or two. The characters are so well developed that you feel you are living their experiences, and the scandalous drama that occurs throughout the book makes it even harder to put down. This isn't any kind of literary masterpiece, but it's highly entertaining. Isn't that what books are supposed to be anyway :)
When a book keeps me up at night and I become obsessed with it and can't do anything else until I finish it, then I know it's a good one. This was a good one!
I thought this book was so very good!!
The first half made my upper lip sweat and I was reminded what it was like to be young and in love for the first time.
The setting is a beach house, the characters walk & fall in love on the beach, the house and clothes are perpetually moist from the sea spray, and the setting is exhiliarating.
I also was in love again.Olympia Biddeford and John Haskell are the main characters, although Olympia's mother and father are also a large part of the first half of the book.
I really like this book!
The author missed an amazing opportunity to delve into the intense feelings that must have been going on inside or Olympia.
Maybe she couldn't write about them because she's never experienced them to the level Olympia did.
I have been there,so I know what the writer couldn't express.Let's see, what else?
Haskell and Olympia are two people who experience that "connection" so many people seem to discount or refuse to believe exists.
I don't approve either, but that doesn't mean it couldn't happen.
Haskell should have definitely stayed away, but maybe he couldn't.
was not as powerful as the love he had for Olympia.
It is a wonderful love story - maybe a bit over the edge romance novelish in the details but the story saved it.
In today's world Olympia wouldn't be so believable but for a turn-of-the-century female, only child, raised in a world of wealth and educated by her adoring father, I believed her character and her actions.
Perhaps the book was a bit long but I enjoyed the details & really didn't want the story to end.
While the ending itself was a bit too perfect considering all that came before it, I still enjoyed it to the last page.
I love everything written by Anita Shreve before 2004. Great relationship books, great mystery about them, complex characters, unpredictable....not necessarily happy.
LOVED this book. Have been reading a bunch this summer, but not all of it has been well written like Fortune's Rocks. Highly recommend it!
Very well written. Kept me interested all the way to the end. If there were half stars I would give it 4.5.
I could not put this book done, it gripped me so thoroughly.
Disappointing book club book.
It’s SOOO not fun to tell someone face to face that you didn’t like their book club pick for the month.
I couldn’t do it.
It was a difficult night.
The characters all seemed unformed.
The things they did, choices they made, and situations they put themselves in seemed contrived and not in keeping with their personality.
The plot did keep me turning the pages but in more a gossip type newspaper way.
It was an easy read, but I felt the ending was horribly selfish of the main characters.
I don’t think Shreve is for me.
I loved this story. I loved her writing, I loved the characters, I just loved everything about this book.
It's not her writing...Her writing is done sharply, well, and poignantly...It's the fact that in eight books I had read by this author, there have been affairs by selfish men and women (almost always the protagonists) followed by the author pathetically trying to justify those affairs and, in the end, trying to declare the protagonist as the righteous, good person in the story.
His wife is a wonderful woman and very kind to 15 year-old Olympia.
It's a tale about a vile, selfish girl who destroys the lives of everyone around her and is rewarded with a happy, laughable ending.I only gave it two stars because of the writing.
This particular summer will undoubtedly be a life-changing one for her; marked by the arrival of John Haskell - a doctor and a friend of her father's, whose new book about the plight of mill-town laborers has caused a sensation among those in well-to-do Society.Olympia, herself, is thoroughly captivated by this man - by his intellect, his stature, and his drive to do right - even as she is overwhelmed for the first time by an irresistible sexual desire.
