https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32435.Phantoms
If you read it, you'll understant what I mean.First, I didn't know that it was a novel, a long horror story book, when I bought it.
I read the title "Phantoms" (well in reality it was "Fantasmas" since I bought in Spanish first the book) and I thought that it was an anthology of ghost stories and that Dean Koontz (I didn't know the author at that moment) was the editor or something of the book.
It was the start of a great reading story of me with Dean Koontz's novels.
For several months I avoided The Lord of the Rings movies because I was afraid they'd be better than the original Star Wars trilogy.
Speaking of problems...I'm as a big a fan of Stephen King as you can imagine, and it's no secret that on any bookstore shelf, King and Koontz are situated right there together, each with his own section of literary real estate.
*King* was my favorite, so I didn't need to read Koontz.
While Stephen King will always be my favorite writer, I will unquestionably be reading more Koontz novels.
So of course, the minute I had the chance, I grabbed a bunch of his books and got to reading!Phantoms is the only one that really resonated with me.
it's almost become a security blanket for me.Personally, I think it's a great story.
It's got everything - there's romance, there are awesome background characters (and pretty great main characters too).
The whole of idea of (view spoiler)[an evil so ancient that it's essentially THE DEVIL deciding to just destroy a small town for no other reason than because it can (hide spoiler)] terrified me when I first read it, and still does if I'm being honest!
The book was an enormous success, earning praise of both audience and critics, who then returned to read his later work and were disappointed that it didn't had much in common with Phantoms.Koontz opens the novel in the Hitchcockian way.
Koontz employs the best type of terror in this section of the book - something sinister has apparently occured in Snowfield, but neither the reader nor the two sisters have a clue what is going on.
Some pretty creepy parts, and a cool monster.But it dragged. Most of the novel is the characters speculating, theorizing, deducing and discussing the nature of the monster. There could have been less of this and more monster action.Working to towards the climax turned into a chore because I was turned off.
This reminded me so much of old school King that it's automatically in the keeper pile.10/10 would read again. :D

Currently I have read three of his novels ; midnight, watchers and now this one, and I have thoroughly enjoyed each of them.
As more characters were introduced the tension just kept on building until finally the " ancient enemy" struck.The less said about the enemy the better, but it is one of the most malevolent forces in fiction I have read about.
Finally I believe this was written around five years before Stephen kings IT.
I can't help but feel that King read this, and found a lot of ideas here that went into his own masterpiece.
This is another long-time-later reread for me. It has some great scares and made me think twice about turning off my reading light, but it doesn't have the kick of Midnight or the cleverness of Watchers. Still worth a read for the few pants-crapping moments and well written gory detail.
"En este pueblo esta pasando algo condenadamente extraño, algo con lo que nadie se ha encontrado antes" Conocí este libro gracias a que pedí que alguien me recomendara un libro que fuera aterrador, y vaya que para esa recomendación este libro funcionó, pero vamos ¿Qué tan fácil es lograr que un libro me de miedo? Muy sencillo, dame suficientes argumentos para que crea que puede pasar. No importa sí me estas diciendo que cerdos zombies voladores están atacando Suiza, hazme creer que puede pasar
No importa sí me estas diciendo que cerdos zombies voladores están atacando Suiza, hazme creer que puede pasar con una ambientación atrapante, con personajes que conecte o (con lo que este libro lo logró) argumentos reales que encajen con lo que esta sucediendo.Podría hablar de los policias,investigadores y las hermanas, pero son personajes antagonistas (sí, se que todos aparecen y son relevantes a la historia, pero eso no los hace protagonistas) el verdadero punto central de la historia es el "villano" (es díficil llamarlo así, aunque no suena adecuado) ese ser hecho maldad pura, reflejo de la naturaleza humana, complejo, atrayente y parece que un tanto bromista.
In my teens, Dean Koontz was one of my favourite authors.
Them, for some reason, I stopped reading his stuff when my twenties hit.
I honestly don't know why I stopped picking up his stuff but, after a decade or so, I think I assumed there must have been a reason I stopped and twenty three years went by without my picking up a Koontz novel.Fast forward to 2018 and 'Phantoms' kept showing up on my Goodreads feed.
I actually enjoyed it.
Quite a lot, actually.
In fact, I kinda feel like I owe Mr. Koontz an apology for dropping him.
Loved this book. Imaginative, original, artfully written. An incredible vision of possibility. The movie does not compare, but Liv Schriber was excellent in it.
My first Dean (R.) Koontz, I was 17 and the world would never be the same again. Unfortunately, it was also the outstandingly best effort from the author, who did manage some more really great books before something utterly inexplicable happened to his works.Admittedly, this loses some pace at the end (when we learn "what it's all about") but the beginning and ramp up of the story! Wow!
Probably because it was written in 1983 and read by me 35yrs later in 2018.
It's not terrible though, in fact the first part that sets the scene in the (now) creepy deserted town of Snowfield, slowly revealing more strange & awful things is great.I'm always unsure how to rate books like this; I'm thinking 2 stars, but if I'd read it in the late 80s/early 90s as a teenager, I would almost certainly have given more.I need to read a recent Koontz I think, if anyone has any recommendations :)
This is the book that put Dean Koontz on the map as a horror writer, for better or for worse, the horror story against which most of his later books would be compared to.
And then all hell breaks loose...The last part of the book sees the introduction of many new characters and that seems to take some of the spooky factor away from the story, but Koontz wanted to give it a complete resolution and an explanation so I guess this is the only way he could do it.
If you fancy reading a horror story, grab this book one night when you are alone at home and I can guarantee you that you will, at least, be spooked.
The plot is as complex as its villain, each character keeping it flowing instead of weighting it down, the heart and soul of the novel always kept alive by a steady supply of imagination and intrigue.Filled to the top with suspense, horrid imagery, truly bizarre and horrifying deaths, gory details, a pure mystery, science and intelligence, well-drawn out fear and even small glimpses of hope, this is a horror book that EVERY horror reader owes it to themselves to read.
Should I give Dean Koontz another chance?Maybe I am being too hard on the piece of derivative trash that is Koontz's Phantoms, but it was so bad – and so memorably bad – that I’ve never read another Koontz book.
In fact, I like to imagine Koontz as the seed spraying father of Harlan Coben, standing over the world of pulp fiction, dick in hand, saturating the fields of crapness like an inspirational sprinkler, and wherever his seed falls a bad writer pops up.
Harlan Coben, the author who, these days, most makes me want to poke out my book reading eyes (despite the fact that I keep going back for more).
(Koontz, however, doesn’t dedicate the book to or even thank Peter Falk.) And over here we have a pretty, young woman doctor who states that even if a guy beat and raped her, she’d still give him the best medical care she could if she found him bleeding out on the street.
(Funnily enough, the character she’s referring to turns out to be a prolific serial killer.)* The book doesn’t end well.
Regrettably, they occur with regularity throughout.* Though it's not relevant to the book, the movie, also written by Koontz, is worse in every way.
And why did I write off Koontz as a hack that pushes brainless filler onto the shelves once per year?
Thanks to my snobbery, I went years without picking up a book that would have satisfied my craving for a good monster story.
Serves me right for thinking I knew better."Phantoms" is a marvelous, fun, and satisfying read.
Put shortly, this is good, solid fiction.I will not go into any more detail, because the story Koontz weaves together needs to be experienced without any spoilers.
I will impart this advice: if you like monsters wreaking havoc in a creepy story, forget any stereotypes surrounding Koontz's work and read this book.
I'm only four chapters in, but I'm already hooked. I have had mixed experiences with this author, so I was wary, but if he can keep up the breathless mystery and suspense, this looks like it will come down on the side of one of Koontz's good books. We shall see...And done...a solid effort from Koontz and I will add it to the books that I like from him: The Odd Thomas series and the book about the mutant dog.
This was a reread for me and it was, once again, fantastic. One of Koontz's best. Fans of Lovecraft and early King will love it.
Not my favorite of his books.*Above is my first review and my 2 star rating...will I change it?
No.Let me say I like Koontz, he has written some books that would rate among my favorites....this isn't one.
For me this is one of those, "isn't this book over yet" books.*MINOR SPOILER BELOW*If I'd been in Jenny's and Lisa's place at the first of the book, by the time I'd found my second body, I'd have been headed for the sheriff's station.
But her older sister, the doctor, the care giver, the one responsible for her younger (14 year old) sister keeps standing over inexplicably dead bodies saying "wait a minute" as her sister KEEPS saying "let's go!".
I loved this book! Things start immediately, and don't let up! First you are dealing with the horror of what has occured....what happened in the town of Snowfield, California? Hundreds of people are missing. A handful of bodies are found, but what happened to them? Even Dr. Jenny Paige can't identify a cause of death. Is it the work of a psycopath? Terrorism? A Disease? Just wait till you find out what it is!!!
Another of those rare novels that truly gave me the creeps. Don't read the back of the novel. Books like these are better read when you have no idea what to expect. If you like Koontz but haven't read this one, by all means read it. And it's NOT about another government experiment/conspiracy.
3/10 και πολύ του είναι.4η και λογικά τελευταία ευκαιρία που δίνω στον κύριο. Πιο πολιτικά ορθός πεθαίνεις. Ευκολίες και κενά στην υπόθεση για γέλια. Και ένα τέλος σα να βγήκε από το μικρό σπίτι στο λιβάδι. ΑΣΕ ΜΑΣ ΚΟΥΚΛΙΤΣΑ ΜΟΥ. Αν αυτό είναι τρόμος, εγώ είμαι ο Μαραντόνα.
With all those synapses for horror benchmark created, I then read Dean Koontz, and disliked  The Voice of the Night, followed by  Winter Moon, also slightly disappointing.
Having realized, Koontz's stories lacked depth (at least in those two), I ended up not reading any of his books until now, with "Phantoms".This time, I needed to get-away from SK's horror writing, and decided to try Koontz once again, most importantly without comparing to SK.
Although this certainly did make a significant impact, eventually as much as many a times as King can use his language, Koontz just wouldn't.
Dean Koontz is the worst author I've had the displeasure of reading.
If I've ever read a writer who should be punished for the poor quality of his books, it is Dean Koontz.
Reading a Koontz novel is like having my brain raped with clumsy diction and weak imagery.
The man is not subtle, and doesn't build any kind of tension in his horror stories; instead, he beats the reader over the head with a hammer of cheesy metaphors.
Instead of reading Dean Koontz, you should probably smash your head repeatedly into a brick wall.
I started this book on Christmas eve, at night, looking for some light reading while waiting for Santa, and Holy Moly!
I never really considered Koonzt a horror writer, and then in the Afterword, Koonzt himself says that in some ways he regrets writing this book because it forever tainted him as a horror writer.
I won't spoil anything, but the ideas were original and enjoyable, and the whole thing read well.
I only knew that it had been written in the 80's because the writing style was "Early Koonzt".
And scary.
Did I mention it was scary?
People who hate Dean Koontz like to act as though he can't string words together into a sentence, but you don't sell millions of books on hype and marketing alone.
Whatever it is about Koontz that makes him successful, Phantoms is one of the books that launched him into the stratosphere.
I think the success of Phantoms can be traced to what is a truly brilliant premise.
I think my least favorite character is the leader of a biker gang—who also happens to be a Satanist—who makes the bikers in the original Dawn of the Dead look like reasonable and serious portrayals.
I'd spend the entire summer reading Koontz and King and any other ghost, goul, vampire book I could find.Phantoms, the first time I read it, scared me so badly I couldn't sleep!
I read through that book like there was no tomorrow.
And yeah, while the creepy factor isn't as strong at 34 as it was at 17, it did give the me the heebie jeebies.Phantoms is basically a theory about what causes mass disappearances such as the Roanoke Colony.
The more it absorbs, the more it learns.
The more it absorbs, the more it learns.
