https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/420403.Rosie_s_Walk
Pat Hutchins illustrates Rosie as a yellow, orange and brownish hen with a calm look in her eyes despite the fox following her in every image and the fox is drawn with a large bushy tail, large black ears, and small feet, which actually makes him look more cute than scary.“Rosie’s Walk” is a truly hilarious story that I believe many children will enjoy if they love good humor.
So much fun! This is really all about the illustrations as there are only a very few words and it could really be told without them--which I mean as a compliment because the illustrations are wonderfully expressive and interesting. As the sly fox slinks after Rosie the chicken on her walk, he comes to realize that maybe she is even MORE sly as she leads him through a series of natural booby-traps which she manages to skillfully avoid. It's like a more refined Roadrunner and Wylie Coyote! ;->
We got a themed box of books from the library about Farms and this was one of the books.
Most of these books from the box, although labeled for grade K, are really a little boring for my 5 yr old, but he's already doing first grade work, so it might depend on your level of your reader.
My twin 3 yr old's loved this though.
About 10 words in the entire book, it's really more about the story that the pictures tell, about Rosie the Hen's walk around the farm with a fox chasing right behind her.
Follow: although Rosie is an eponymous character, she can hardly be perceived as a protagonist, as she literary does nothing.
A postmodernist antihero character in all of its glory.Now, take a look at Wolf.
He's trying to catch Rosie, but each time he fails.
For me, Wolf is a true protagonist in this novel, as he is much more complex and structured than Rosie.
That is why I formulated a hypothesis that Wolf possibly might be perceived as a good character, as many readers (like me, for instance) felt some kind of a bond with him.What is the moral of it?
In this particular book the illustrations nearly tell more than the words as they introduce the character of the fox that follows Rosie along her walk and attempts to pounce on her.
In a class this could be used in a guided reading session and the children could be asked to recall the tracks of the hen and mishaps of the fox.
A class discussion about being aware of one's surroundings and safety could be instigated from the hen being blissfully unaware of the fact that she was being followed by the fox.
A timeless picture book classic about a hen who is oblivious to the antics of a fox stalking her. With minimal text and simple, yet lovely geometric patterned pen and ink illustrations, there is much to observe. The cause and effect humor of the fox's walk makes this an enjoyable preschool concept book.
This story is all about the pictures—the words are sparse and not integral to the story. Rosie the hen goes for a walk, and the fox following her always manages to get hurt in places that she stays safe. Does Rosie do it on purpose, or is it just luck? You decide.I love the stylized illustrations from 1968.
Lovely book for Early Years depicting the journey of Rosie the hen. It is also lovely because the stroy focuses on Rosie but the story itself has another character who is only shown in picture. This leads itself to asking questions about this character. Group reading would be a very good time to use this book.
Only a few words, but really fun pictures. Loved the fox.
Positional language EYFS
A book for really young readers, teaching them cause and effect skills. Not very impressed with the muted colors, though I know that was quite typical of children's books from that period.
Also it has such simple text that builds anticipation; it literally leaves you on the edge of your seat, as you watch on every page and the Foxe’s attempts to eat Rosie the Hen.This book is appropriate across EYFS to KS1 and would be a useful resource for Geography and Science, in terms of understanding the world around them.
This book could be a great book to read to the class in conjunction with the topic of mapping, as the story follows the Hens journey.
There are very few words and I didn’t feel like a child would be too engaged in the book, but after reading it a second time and thinking of ideas to make it better, I thought that when reading the book if you made noises to go along with what’s being said it may enhance the walk and make the story better as a whole.
So for a third time reading it, I decided to read the story out loud, making noises when the fox had an accident, and found myself laughing and getting more into the book.
I have to admit that my feelings about “Rosie’s Walk” by Pat Hutchins were highly conflicting at first, and I couldn’t quite put my finger on it, considering I truly enjoyed both the artistic style of the pictures and the story they were meant to convey (which, by the way, unfolds in a pretty dynamic and humorous manner - bound to keep the readers intrigued).
Team Tom is where it’s at, and it’s no different for me in “Rosie’s Walk”.
Mr. Fox is relentless in his hen hunt, and there is something truly admirable in his unyielding determination.
The prepositions used in this book could be very useful for KS1 children in helping them to structure sentences as they begin to develop their sentences .There is a lot of anticipation that builds up in this story through reading each page.
For younger children l can only begin to imagine the excitement this will stir up as they anticipate and eagerly await to find out if Rosie will fall prey to the fox.
Overall, it is a light-hearted book and I would urge others to share it with younger readers, it is a delight to read!...
It was fun to read a book with 32 words on 32 pages (no, not one word per page).
The few words that are there don't really tell the story, unless you are looking at the pictures.
The downside - it can't be one of the first books a kid tries to read him or herself; since the words and the pictures tell two different stories, it makes it impossible for a beginning reader to focus.
Now, that he's five, it's not all that educational, but we still had a lot of fun and a nice discussion.
Pat Hutchins' picture book lets readers follow Rosie, the hen of the title, all around the farm where she lives.
Good as the text and illustrations are on their own, the real genius of the book is the way in which the words and pictures work together.
Although the text describes just what Rosie does, it tells only a small part of the story, as the pictures show a sneaky fox who is following the unwitting hen.
His exploits are the main focus of the story, and the book is a very funny way to show children that 'reading' a picture book is about more than just processing the words on the page.
I read this book when working with a nursery class and the children really enjoyed the story.
After a few times the book has been read to the children they start to pick up on most of the sentences such as "past the mill", "over the haycock" which enables them to join in with the story.A activity I did with the children that they really enjoyed was a role play, where I got half the children to be the foxes and the other half to be Rosie the hen.
A fox follows behind her, but cannot catch her as she leads him into one accident after another.
Eventually Rosie returns to the coop just in time for dinner.This is a great simple story for teaching positional words and mapping a story.
The fox, to the delight of the children, has one accident after another while trying to catch Rosie.To enhance children's understanding of the story, we made a huge mural size map of Rosie's walk using pictures from Kizclub.com.
The children colored the pictures, cut them out, and then decided how to position them on the mural.
Time Machine 5.0 out of 5 stars A Good Book for Toddlers, Preschoolers and on Up, May 27, 2005 My just-turned 3 year old son adores this book.
We saw it first as one of the stories on the Scholastic video "Chicka Chicka Boom Boom" and after watching it numerous times I knew we needed to possess the book."Rosie's Walk" is essentially the tale of a sloe-eyed chicken that goes about her business in absolute ignorance of the pursuing fox and his travails.Done in strikingly garish yellows, oranges and greens (it *was* published in 1971 afterall!) it grabs a toddlers/preschoolers attention and captivates it.
The text is very simple and focuses on what Rosie is doing e.g. she goes across the yard, around the pond etc.
What I loved about this book is the detailed, colourful illustrations.
The text never mentions a fox however the illustrations show a fox following Rosie as she goes on her walk.
I enjoyed reading this book to the children and listening to them discuss whether Rosie knew the fox was following her or if she was completely oblivious.
This is a great book to use in EYFS as it teaches children positional language.
I absolutely love this simple text which is ideal and a must for first readers.
The children absolutely love it.
The children love the anticipation of what will happen next and what happens to the fox as he pursues Rosie.
It can be used to teach young children directional vocabulary such as through, over, under amongst others.
It has simple texts that children memorise quickly which encourages them to read independently.
The pictures are fantastic and the children are gripped as they get busy trying to find what the fox is up to....
Alternating pages with words and pages without words, makes this book easy to follow for new readers. Further, the illustrations match the main character's (the oblivious rooster) actions, helping to prompt the reader, followed by funny pictures of the hungry/mischievious fox getting himself into trouble, making the story fun to read. Little details in each illustration (a little snail by the side of the road, a bird in a tree or a little mouse in a haystack) make it fun to explore beyond the words.
This is a very simple book about a hen that goes on a walk back to her hen house.
The illustration shows a fox following the hen, but never discusses this within the text.
This book is one that can be shown to the Early Years when talking about the farm, or going on walks, or flowing trails.
If you have read this story to children a few times you could then translate it into a different language such as French or Spanish as there aren’t too many words within the text.
This is a nice short book for children with nice illustrations throughout.
Very simple book, but it made me laugh nonetheless! It could make for a great read aloud in trying to relay the message of how malicious intent always leaves the malice one on their faces. It could be a great character lesson and just a cute short read. I enjoyed it and was able to make predictions with every page turn.
This is an entertaining book that has a simple story (Rosie takes a walk), with an underlying tale that is told solely through the illustrations. The background story is very funny, filled with slapstick humor that makes our girls laugh uproariously at the fox's antics.
I liked it, 5 year old daughter liked it. She enjoyed guessing what would happen to the fox on the next page. Just one of those children's books that's enjoyable to read. Vintage illustrations are a great break from modern picture books.
O livro é, literalmente, um relatório do passeio da Rosie. Pelo menos, o texto. A história só se torna alguma coisa de especial quando olhamos para as ilustrações, que é onde estão todos os acontecimentos relevantes (e engraçados) do passeio.É giro. E vale tudo para cumprir o challenge.
Very fun pictures highlight this children's book, about a fox's thwarted efforts to have a hen for dinner. Children will delight in finding the small amusing details.
I love how much of this book is unwritten. There’s so much story in the illustrations and it sparks conversation outside of the written word. Classic.
