https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84736.Mary_Mary
No need to sit down quietly and concentrate - Patterson does all the work and the reader just has to enjoy.Strangely for me I have found myself reading the Alex Cross series at random.
Consequently little Alex appears, disappears, is a baby, gets bigger, gets smaller depending on where my current book fits in.
It's all fine by me.This book had an intriguing story line with a most unusual serial killer.
Luckily the very smart Mr Cross does not catch on until the very last minute either so I do not feel so bad:)This would make ideal reading material for a journey - excellent story, no concentration required.
This Alex Cross book is suspenseful.
It keeps you guessing throughout!
I don’t think I have ever read a book where I debated whether it was a man or woman in my life.
I really enjoyed the psychological aspect of this one since there was more emphasis on the psychology of the perp than some of the other books.
Also, this one was not as predictable as a lot of these books can be.
I still have no idea where Alex’s personal life is going.
My quick and simple overall: a really good installment into the Alex Cross series that keeps you guessing from the beginning to the end!
I swore off all Patterson books years ago after the little girl who sprouted wings, but when I saw a friend's review of this one recently, I decided to give him another chance. The Alex Cross series has been pretty consistent over the years, and this one came through as well with a solid story. I do not recommend the audio version, however. It had sound effects and background music, which just sounded cheesy, IMO.
Besides leaving trademark stickers with the letters A or B on them, Mary Smith also emails a Los Angeles Times entertainment writer a letter to the victim describing how the gruesome crime was committed.Alex's family life seems to be imploding as Christine Johnson attempts to gain sole custody of LIttle Alex and his relationship with San Francisco police detective Jamilla starts to crumble under the pressure of his job.Patterson has turned back to the type of stories that made Alex Cross so interesting: quick-paced suspence and just a touch of mystery.
The identity of Mary is kept a secret until a very surprising ending.

Patterson started writing Cross novels in 1992, with Along Came a Spider, which instituted the forumla of pitting Alex against this week's serial killer.
But if you have read even one Alex Cross novel -- or any book more advanced than The Very Hungry Caterpillar, give Mary Mary a very wide berth.Just to give the basics here very quickly, Alex Cross is an African-American detective -- now special assistant to the FBI director -- from the mean streets of Southeast D.C. He lives with his grandmother, the ancient Nana Mama, who is forever telling him to spend more time with his young family.
This Alex Cross book is really good.
I don’t think I have ever read a book where I debated whether the baddie was a man or woman in my life.
It is a really good installment into the Alex Cross series that keeps you guessing from the beginning to the end!
Mary Mary is one of the best James Patterson books I have read so far.
It takes place in Los Angeles, California as his family vacation interrupted and he has to once again balance his family and work life as his upcoming custody trial with his ex-wife Christine begins.
Highly Recommend.First Read: This Alex Cross book is much better than others of his in the past.
Anything that has to deal with her is annoying to me at this point - why can't she just stay away?The new killer calls herself "Mary Smith" which was really odd to me because it was a plain name.
Nope, Mary fucking Smith it is.Mary, Mary wasn't my favorite book in this series.
I feel like these books are just more about his personal life and other stupid nonsense when all I really care about are the murders.
I'm just hoping that the next book will make me fall back in love with this series instead of feeling bored.
Good. A turn away from the epic plot with a cast of thousands, a turn toward a plot Georges Simenon might have liked.
Love this series!
This was my first James Patterson read; I've always seen his books in bookstores and know a little about him as a thriller author, but until now I'd never read any of his books.
I realized after I picked up the book that it was late in the Alex Cross series, but after reading it, I can honestly say I didn't need to read the other books in the series to get the story.
For a thriller, I think that's a good quality; it shows that Patterson at least knows how to write his genre of choice.
I'd probably read another Patterson book or two, but I doubt I'll read the whole Cross series.
Mary Mary is one of the best James Patterson books I have read so far.
This book chronicle the happenings of Alex Cross, an Metro Police Officer turned FBI Detective, as he tries to solve the grisly murders of some of Hollywood's famous.
It takes place in Los Angeles, California as his family vacation interrupted and he has to once again balance his family and work life as his upcoming custody trial with his ex-wife Christine begins.
James Patterson does a good job illustrating the daily struggles of "America's Sherlock Holmes" and how he fights for justice and does his best to be a loving father to his kids.
When Alex Cross goes on vacation to Disneyland, with his kids and his grandma, Nana, who I love, a call to check out a celebrity killing in LA ends up being a big mistake. Between the killer and a past that is haunting him Alex finds himself headed coast to coast. I love the Alex Cross novels and the character development created by an author that knows had to grab the reader and never let them go, always a good thing!
La verdad es que me decepcionó. Creo que sobre todo fue la cuestión del final, pero no quiero ahondar mucho en está reseña. Estoy seguro de que a alguno podría interesarle pero por mi parte no pienso leerlo de nuevo jamás.
Clearly another of Pattersons jewels. It was hard to put down and easy to read. He does such short chapters, that if you need to stop, it is easy to get back to. He writes about gruesome murders and this is no exception, but truly keeps you trying to figure out the who and why.
Poca adrenalina e ritmo solo apparentemente serrato per un'indagine quasi inesistente con doppio finale tirato via.
Crider died a few days ago, long before he should have.)Also on that Wikipedia list was James Patterson's Mary, Mary, so perhaps I wasn't onto something after all.Someone's knocking off Hollywood stars and other pillars of the movie industry and, under the nom de guerre "Mary Smith," sending confessional letters to an LA entertainment journalist.
Series hero and FBI agent Alex Cross, on Hollywood with his family in Disneyland, is called away to work alongside the LAPD in tracking down the serial killer.The pages turn pretty quickly, because of Patterson's habit of using extremely short chapters (121 of them in this novel).
This book started off great. It kept me guessing. I couldn’t tell if the story teller was male or female. At around the part 4 mark, I started to lose interest and then just raced to the end.
Patterson consistently hits out best-sellers because he gets the tropes that work and the characters that don't.
I kind of stop caring about him and want to know only what he's working on, which is no good for a main character.
This one is no different--yes, we had a great twist and some really interesting characters, but then all was bedded down within about 10 pages and we were off to the next adventure.
I mean, a good cliff-hanger can be useful, but this isn't that; it's just a "and CUT!" moment, and I think that really detracts from the overall effect of the book.So, yes.
This is a short story about Alex Cross and a case of a female serial killer murdering super-moms in California. Patterson might have meant this to be a novel then decided the plot wasn't good enough. It reads like a draft where half of the chapters are only a paragraph or two long.Still, it had an interesting premise and a nice twist at the end. Alex Cross really needs to adopt the lifestyle of a monk though. Every woman who gets romantically attached to him winds up kidnapped, raped or assaulted.
Hands down, my least favorite Alex Cross book in the series. To be honest, I only finished it so that I could pick up seamlessly when the next book came out. Didn't hate it, but it bored me a bit.And another thing...now that Cross is getting laid a lot, it really gets on my nerves! Patterson makes him sound like a total horndog, along with a goof for some of the things that he says. But, I keep reading....
The 11th book in the Alex Cross series by James Patterson.Dr. Alex Cross is a specialist in forensic psychology, originally working for the Washington DC police department and later as an FBI senior agent. I continue to enjoy the Alex Cross novels which are still currently written by Patterson rather than most of his other books that are written largely by co authors and tend to be hit or miss.
My favorite in this series so far. 5 stars. Mysterious, action packed and it didn't fall into all the clichés that was in every other Alex Cross book so far! What a relief to read a book in this series that broke away from the mold. I hope this series keeps evolving and not become predictable. And, I have to say.... WHAT is up with Christine?!?!?!?!?!?!?I can't wait to read more.
رائعة .. حبكة مدهشة وطريقة مختلفة في الكتابة ..
My favorite James Patterson book yet! Murder, mystery, intrigue, loved it!
As far as action goes this wasn't the best book, it seemed a bit slow for me action wise but the emotions...
I went through the book just wishing that Christine would die a horrible death, I want her to go AWAY, how could she do this to Alex.
As a woman they are making me hate my gender!Sampson!
That is what you call a good friend.
If Billie wasn't already there I would marry him.As far as the killer in this one, is it bad that I felt a little sympathetic towards Mary, she killed her kids then couldn't face life without them.
Now as far as Alex and Christine I was really sick of her throughout this whole book and I was sick of her ass pretty much when she came back to get Little Alex and then to drag Alex through court and through the mud in the process only to turn around and do exactly the same thing in the end....
Anyways all in all this was a good book and the ending was even better it took a turn I didn't expect and left you feeling heartbroken for Mary!
The first 2/3 of this book is mostly the Alex Cross work life balance crisis. It gets very irritating. The book is uneven and I really don't care about the Alex "Whoa is me, I have to work but don't want to leave my family because they give me crap about it" saga. There are long sections about his custody fight intermixed with quick visits to crime scenes. I think the writers realized they were about out of pages so they crammed the killer search into the last 1/3 of the book.
This is perfect for a cold, rainy couple of days when you just stay home and putter around the house. The Alex Cross series is well-written, and the plot in this one was interesting enough to keep me riveted from short chapter to short chapter (thanks for that, James Patterson). After devouring a couple of hefty tomes, this is a light but delicious snack. I really enjoyed it.
Not as good as the last two but still interesting. I am looking forward to continuing the series and this seems to be a common thing for me where I like some of the books from this series but not others. Okay Read!
