https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15858.Mirror_Mirror
This book would have entertained me better if it had been on fire.
I rarely ever put a book down before I have finished it, no matter how bad it is...
The cafe I was reading it at had a collection bin of books to send to the needy in Africa.
After forcing myself to read it for several days, I walked right over and tossed it in.
Sorry to whoever receives the book, perhaps it will be better than reading nothing, though I doubt it.Overall the book was a slow-read with undeveloped characters.
Everyone else on earth seemed to have loved it, so I truly felt like maybe I missed something.
I'm a little surprised to see so many dismal/mediocre reviews of this story here.
I found myself to be just as fixated by this story as I was by Wicked (I can't say that about another of his popular novels, The Ugly Stepsister).I appreciated the position Gregory took in this re-telling of Snow White.
I found the inclusion of an actual historical family (the Borgias) intriguing, although I'm not going to research them.
I almost covet his imagination and creativity and would highly recommend this book to anyone who enjoyed Wicked.
What's the point in retelling a fairy tale if the retelling is as one-dimensional as the original story?His graceful way with words is still there, of course, as is his ability to draw away from one scene and fall seamlessly but intentionally into another, stitching the two side by side in the right way.
Frank Baum than the usual flat fairy tales) or the quiet injustice of Cinderella (made SO palpable you barely remember the original story's destination).
I still expected Maguire to pull through, no matter how many oddly-angled dwarf chapters I read or how artlessly he tried to make the cunning and terrifying Lucrezia Borgia into the flat vain Wicked Witch.
I really hated this book.
It was like Snow White on acid.
Very fragmented and choppy.
Even the book cover was creepy.
I love retold fairy tales, but I thought this one was a bit of a stretch, and just...weird.
I couldn't tell where it was try to go; was it a horror story, a murder mystery, a complete mistake?
All in all, it was trying too hard to be too edgy, in my humble opinion.
Mirror Mirror didn't recapture the magic that all of Maguire's other novels held.
I was really disappointed.
In fact, did I even finish reading this?
Sorry, Gregory Maguire.
This is by far the least appealing and satisfying of the Maguire fairy tales I've read.
I'm not really sure where to begin!
I was all set to devour this retelling of Snow White, set within a beautiful Italian landscape and with the wicked "stepmother" cast as an untraditional outcast of royalty.
(Maguire does possess a gift for understanding the prevalence of politics these stories imply.) However, the rest was slow going.
Unfortunately, I will have to re-read it to give more specific reasons for disliking it.
(Yes, it's that unremarkable.) All I remember was persevering to the end because of my stubborn insistence of finishing things I start, and then regretting it.
At first I was a little surprised by all the negative reviews of this book.
The first time I read the book, I didn't really "get it." The second time though, I was floored.
Whereas Wicked and it's sequels are pretty much straight-up exciting storytelling rife with action and politics, Mirror Mirror has extended sections that in first reading are confusing.
I didn't find Blanca boring.
It is a land and time of mystery that Blanca inhabits, but one tainted by the world of the Borgias.
Of all his books, this is the one that warrants multiple readings.
Even God used silence as a strategy.""The way a man slakes his thirst and a woman slakes her thirst are not identical, for they thirst for different things.""She sat amidst us, more or less naked as a human baby, looking, but it was we older brothers - older than trees, older than wind, older than choice - who were born in her presence.""[He] put his mouth to hers and apologized.""Out of our need we patronize our artists, we flirt with our poets, we petition our architects: give us your lusty colorful world.
Erin GortMs. HousemanH World Lit5 May 2008Gregory MaguireMirror MirrorNew York: Harper Collins, 2004280 pp. $16.00978-0-06-098865-4 The novel “Mirror Mirror” was an immense letdown after reading “Wicked” and “Son of a Witch.” Gregory Maguire is noted for recreating or retelling previously created tales of fantasy. “Mirror Mirror” is the reinvented story of Snow White. Placed in the fantasy tale are Cesare and Lucrezia Borgia, the famous children of Pope. They plan the demise of Bianca De Nevada,
$16.00978-0-06-098865-4	 The novel “Mirror Mirror” was an immense letdown after reading “Wicked” and “Son of a Witch.” Gregory Maguire is noted for recreating or retelling previously created tales of fantasy.
But even with these, one is left disappointed by the fact that Maguire seems to devote more attention to the context and history of the story than to the story itself.
What's the point in retelling a fairy tale if the retelling is as one-dimensional as the original story?Gregory Maguire does not live up to the praise and glory of “Wicked.” He left the reader utterly confused and bored.
I probably shouldn't have been, because I liked Wiked, but in some ways I was disappointed with Wicked as well, with how it dealt with the Dorothy aspects of the story, and I am much more a fan of the Oz books than I am with anything Snow White related.
She is, in many ways, the mirror of Lucrezia, who becomes more the main character of the story.
But it was a good story, one that I thoroughly enjoyed reading, and in the end one that will probably stick with me for a time.
Also, I can tell you that the tale takes place in Tuscany, Italy which in my opinion is a fine setting for such a book.I have to say that giving Snow White a more exotic and foreign name of Bianca de Nevada was quite smart on Maguire's behalf.
The novel starts out with Bianca at seven years old with her father Don Vicente.
Lucrezia serves as the wicked queen and grows jealous of Bianca's beauty as she ages into grace.
The majestic setting of old Italy also added to the imagination as it gave the ""Snow White"" story more depth.
This book was sort of like a double retelling -- one of Snow White, and one of the Italian Borgias family.
But as much as I liked that aspect, the rootedness of the story in history and politics made some of the more fantastical elements (dwarves that "evolved" out of rocks, the magic mirror, Snow White's multiple-year sleeping episodes on more than one occasion) feel a little out of place.
I also felt like Gregory Maguire laid a lot of groundwork in the first half of the book with the intricacy I've come to appreciate about his writing, but the second half felt rushed, as though he suddenly remembered he was writing a Snow White retelling and had to get all the elements in there.
You know, I liked Wicked a LOT, but I had this weird feeling after reading it that I wasn't too interested in Maguire's other work because the endless "alterna-tales" shtick seemed tiresome ...
which doesn't make a lot of sense now that I think about it, because I never sat around and thought things like "oh Dorothy Sayers, if she's just going to keep writing books about Peter Wimsey solving murders, then why even bother?" But regardless, I was reluctant.I ended up loving this.
And I just loved her by the end ...
I thought that this was a very disappointing book. After reading Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister, which I loved, and Wicked, which I liked, I expected Mirror, Mirror to be a fun read at the very least. It was not. I love the idea of playing with fairy tales; but in my view, Maguire did not succeed in transforming Snow White into a compelling contemporary re-telling.
I didn't manage to read it all, there are still 50 pages waiting for me but I don't think I'll ever get back to it. It was tiring and really not what I expected. The ideas behind the story might have been good but the story itself was dissapointing! I was forcing myself to read through for a few days now but I realized I was just wasting my time.
Beautifully written story. Barely a resemblance to the fairytale version we all know (The Disney one). I can't understand why all the low ratings. Is it because the story is too beautiful? Is it because it's too poetic? Is it because too many people don't like human on unicorn sexual encounters? Easy 5 star.
One of the better fairy-tale retellings, Mirror mirror keeps this perfect balance between whimsical and utterly disturbing. Maguire's style is definitely present in this novel and though I sometimes had trouble with understanding who was talking in which chapter and what the hell those dwarf/rock/goblin/things were on about, I flew through this book and would love to re-read it once upon a time.
I say slightly, of course, because anyone who has had the pleasure of reading a Gregory Maguire story knows that things will still remain whimsical and magical, even when placed in a historical setting like this one.
Bianca (Snow White) herself is actually a little on the boring side in this book - though I think that perhaps this was an intentional act on Maguire's part, seeing that the bulk of the drama in this tale comes from the wicked Borgias and the tragic story of Bianca's father, sentenced by Cesare to scour the earth for a secret relic from the Tree of Knowledge.
Lucrezia takes one of the apples and offers a slice to the stone dwarf that is following Vicente.
The creature eats the slice and then takes the rest of the apple when it is offered to him by Lucrezia.The dwarf then leaves and returns to his brothers.
It makes them age and change like a human would.Lucrezia learns that Bianca is still alive from the gooseboy who saw her in the forest.
The hunter, Primavera’s grandson, comes back and stops the gooseboy and takes the pleasure for himself, awaking Bianca.Meanwhile Lucrezia wants to be happy and will stop at nothing for it.
In listening to it, I better understood how this retelling of Snow White reflects the fables compiled by the Brothers Grimm, giving far more detail than is easy to read physically.
Despite some Borgia fatigue (from cable television, BBC,and historical fiction), this fabulistic treatment does little to portray with the clan any redeeming qualities, which provides great sympathty for the coming Protestant Reformation.
Likewise, the perpheriary characters create wonderful foils to bith sides' indivudual and collective foibles and redeeming qualities.
I particularly enjoyed the deeper pieces of dwarf and Snow White-beyond-Disney details that enhanced the story.
I loved this book.
I find Gregory Maguire's style of writing and use of language different, very compelling.
It reminded me of "Wicked," in that the beginning was kind of difficult due to the unusual type of narration.
When I got used to that, I got gradually drawn into the tale and couldn't put it down.
I loved the inclusion of short poems at the beginning of each chapter, some had the feel of ancient chants.
And the woodcut illustrations are lovely, they really complement the text.
For a tale with so much enchantment, it's surprising how much you feel for the characters, both human and magical.
On a spectrum of fairy-tale retellings Mirror Mirror landed firmly as historical fiction inspired by a fairy tale*.
Those three elements were the only reason I kept reading; they're the only parts of the story that came close to capturing my attention.3 stars*Please don't interpret this label to mean I don't enjoy these types of retellings; see Bitter Greens and The Golem and the Jinni.
I believe that this just may be my favorite Gregory Maguire book to date.
My reading this book just so happened to coincide with a history channel series having to do with medieval Italian History, which made the fact that this book was thoroughly sprinkled with this subject matter even more delicious that it would have otherwise.I literally could not out this book down and finished it in about 12 hours with few breaks.
When I finished the book I gave myself about 48 hours and then read it again more slowly taking the time to relish every word.
I highly recommend this book.
I liked this book for the most part, but I felt the ending could have been a lot better.
The author's writing was too confusing to understand what actually happened in the end, i.e. did she die or not?
I also lost interest in all that backstory about the antagonist that he tagged on at the end.
My interest was in Bianca, aka Snowwhite and how the story ended for her specifically, not how many times her jealous enemy had affairs and gave birth after Bianca supposedly died.
But up until the end I did enjoy it.
I love this author's work produced as audio books - maguire's turn of phrase & the unique way he invokes narrative voice reward the actors - lots of fun, beautiful and humorous all at once - a treat ! I finished it up on kindle and love reading it too - the illustrations and verse at the start of the chapters are like little treats .
Gregory Maguire has a great way of using a fairytale as a base for a story and then completing rewriting it.
It ends up almost being a different story.This one is based on Snow White and is set in the early 1500s.
Bianca escapes and ends up living with stone men.You don't get the happy ever after moment at the end of the book as it ends just on the precipice of the characters being reunited.Definitely an interesting interpretation of this story.
The ability to take a moment in History, add a fairytale and create a story that sheds light on both takes a mind that is rich in imagination, a broad grasp of History and a deep understanding of the Genre of Myth. Gregory Maguire has proven his ability to retell a familiar tale in such a way so as to cause a tale to never be heard with “the same ears” again. In this retelling of “Snow White” and “Sleeping Beauty,” he drafts Lucrezia Borgia into the role of the “Evil Step Mother/Witch” and make
As is true in all good stories, the quest for power is prominent in the action of this book and, as is true in all fairytales, that power is subjugated by the true power found in innocence and truth.
Reading Maquire is a trip to the bedtime stories of one’s childhood, seeing them with the eyes of an adult – the fantasy made sense we were children because we wanted to believe; they make more sense now because we are willing to see life more clearly but still consider the possibility of magic.
I found this book to be boring. I only finished it because I kept hoping something interesting would happen. Nope.
Lucrezia is the evil stepmother and five-year-old Bianca de Nevada grows into the role of Snow White.
Adding much historical flavor and returning to the edgy eroticism of the fairy tale, Maguire invests the journeys of the Borgias, Bianca, and Vicente with a compelling urgency.
Once Bianca was taken to the woods, the story got choppy and disconnected -- rather like Bianca's existence, I suppose -- anyway, it was difficult to stay "in" the story when the author hopped from this point of view to that with little connection between the POVs. Awkward awkward awkward transitions.Still, I loved Maguire's concept of the Seven (or was it Eight?) dwarves, and was disappointed by their limited appearances.
Bianca de Nevada lives in a manor house atop a hill in Italy.
So this old fairy tale becomes entangled with the story of Lucrezia and her brother Cesare, a search for the Tree of Knowledge, the manifestation of the seven or eight dwarves and their magic mirror.
He is to find the Tree of Knowledge and bring back a branch or its apples to help the Borgias once again rule Italy and her city states.
Lucrezia cannot stand the fact that Bianca is getting to be more beautiful than she and attracts Cesare's attention...as a ten year old child!
All the stories are fascinating...the dwarves, Vicente, Bianca, Lucrezia...how their stories evolve is spell-binding.
Besides that, the book was still good.
The take on the dwarves was very interesting, really entering a magical, fantastical element into something that he could have turned into just a more historical retelling of a Snow White story that sounded more true.
Which, actually, I probably would have enjoyed more, but what he did with it was still interesting.
So, two things that could have been left out of the book that made it less realistic.
Mostly given a ‘B’ because I enjoyed the book but the last chapter kind of sucked and seemed like a cop out.
