https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37586799-half-a-king
Because I got to read an ARC of this book and you have to wait until it comes out in July.
That said, sometimes I put down one of his books and think to myself, "Well, I guess everything sucks and everyone in the world is awful and we're all pretty much fucked in the end, aren't we?" Sometimes his books leave me feeling a little bleak.
But at the same time, I'm not always up for reading bleak.
Simply said, I think this is my favorite Abercrombie book yet.
So you can jump in here even if you haven't read his other stuff.
Once, after his father had hit him in a rage, Yarvi's mother had found him crying. The fool strikes, she had said. The wise man smiles, and watches, and learns. Then strikes. Half a King is the kind of book that creeps up on you gradually, painting a picture of kingdoms and slavery and backstabbing until you think this is basically another fantasy set in the comfort zone of the genre, and then it hits you hard when you least expect it. I kid you not, there were three huge "twists" in this book
It's a real underdog kind of story and Yarvi is a complex character that simultaneously evokes sympathy and is allowed to make mistakes, do horrible things and screw people over to survive.
And I swear I could feel the icy cold coming through even in the middle of July - Abercrombie works setting and atmosphere together very well.Despite my love for Yarvi, this book wouldn't have been the same without the varied and interesting cast of secondary characters.
Well, I certainly wouldn’t give it the axe!**Only works if you know a rarely-used idiom, AND that the Gemmell Award is a battle axe.The grimdark (the challenge here being to attach the mildly pejorative label “grimdark” to Joe’s work without ever using the term directly):Some worried that Abercrombie’s move to Young Adult novels would mean a loss of his grim, dark tone.
We were introduced to the main character and his family, which was good, but, really, other than that it was the basic king-died-needs-replacement-hero-becomes-king-marriage-betrayal and everything felt really flatly executed.
Strangely, after finishing this read and thinking back to it, I honestly would have seen this book making a good standalone.
And so his character growth – which was the most important element in the story for me – turned out admiring and needed.
While I did like it and think the book to be a good epic fantasy read, this as a whole was indeed quite unrealistic.
12/29/17 - ON SALE for $2.99: http://amzn.to/2i0JcfgReviewed by: Rabid ReadsIt's not a secret that YA fantasy is second to only UF on my preferred genres list. It's also not a secret that YA fantasy has been falling flat for me recently. With the exception of Heir of Fire by Sarah J. Maas, the last 6 or 8 YA fantasies I've read have been disappointing at best, DNFs at worst.It was getting to the point that I was doubting myself, thinking that I was in some kind of genre-specific book funk, and m
It states things simply, in a way that goes straight to that gooey, melty center where your FEELS live.Yarvi is the second son of a king.
Hard to hold both a sword and a shield if you only have one hand, so Yarvi is half a man in his father's eyes .
Once he passes his test and becomes Brother Yarvi, he will no longer be the deformed, second son of the king.
. .I don't really feel like I can do this book proper justice, but I'm going to try.It's devilishly clever.
. .Half a King by Joe Abercrombie is the best new YA fantasy I've read this year.
Just so no one thinks I'd review a book I hadn't read, yes, I got to read it already as an Advanced Reading Copy. I've enjoyed Abercrombie's books before but this one had an exceptionally tight focus on the protagonist that I really liked. And the story does not compromise anywhere. It's a coming of age story but that trite description does it no justice. No spoilers here, just a whole hearted recommendation.
I’m a big fan of Abercrombie stark gritty fantasy books for grown-ups.
So I was curious to see how he would approach the world of young adult fiction in Half a King.
Our protagonist, Yarvi the youngest son of the king of Gettland, was born with a deformed hand in a world that values only able-bodied warriors.
Suddenly Yarvi must be king and avenge his family, but very few Gettlanders are prepared to have ‘half a king’ – a weakling with only one good hand.
With eye-popping plot twists and rollicking good action, Half a King is definitely a full adventure.
There I was, peacefully reading a decent, interesting YA fantasy, a sort of Viking-flavored coming-of-age story about the adventures of a physically weak, studious 15 year old prince with a crippled hand.
It was a pretty interesting read; it felt a little bit like some other books I've read, but I wasn't throwing it at the wall or picking lint out of my navel or asking my kids if I could help them with their homework.Then things started happening.
Truly surprising things.
This book is what The False Prince wants to be when it grows up.
From the many cages ranked around the walls they looked down on him now, the doves, and one great bronze-feathered eagle which must have brought a message from the High King in Skekenhouse. The one person in the lands around the Shattered Sea who had the right to make requests of Yarvi now. Yet here he sat against the dropping-speckled wall, picking at the nail on his shriveled hand, buried beneath a howe of demands he could never fulfill.  As someone who has stepped out of her YA comfort zone
I even asked my good friend Petrik for recommendations because I always see how wonderful reviews on my feed and it's always a high/epic fantasy book and I'm like "what if I gave that genre a try?" so here I am, wishing I started before.
I don't read a lot of books that have a male character as the male lead, but Yarvi has changed the way I look at male characters.
You can't help but love his attitude and the way he acts around the rest of the group.One of my favorite things about this book was the writing.
After being rescued and sold into slavery, he plots his revenge...I got this from Netgalley.After the unbridled awesomeness of The First Law and its spinoffs, I was curious to see if Joe Abercrombie could tell a story set in another world.
I loved those damn misfits, particularly Sumael and The Man Called Nothing, whom I hoped against hope was Logen Ninefingers despite this book not taking place in the First Law world.
As with a lot of Abercrombie's supporting villains, Shadikshirram, wasn't all that vile and could have been a lead character under other circumstances.The ending was full of surprises.
He ends up as a slave on a ship  (hide spoiler)] and goes through a LOT before the story comes full circle in a wonderfully clever way.
The story is polished and straightforward but still has some powerful imagery & deep dialogue.
There's this witty tone to most of the story that made everything way more adventurous instead of some very serious and important ordeal.
I really liked Yarvi as a main character because he managed to turn his empathy, patience, and wit into weapons instead of relying on brute strength.
The fool strikes. The wise man smiles, and watches, and learns. Then strikes.  Half a King is what I would call a very traditional fantasy. It’s about kings and queens, princes and the fight for the throne, wars and conspiracies. It is set in a world that resembles medieval Europe/the Viking era and in many ways it isn’t a very original story. BUTIt is utterly fantastic. This book really demonstrates what a great writer Joe Abercrombie is, that he was able to take something so traditional and
Knowing anything more would be a spoiler so I’ll stop here!Although it may sound like it, Half a King is not just another fantasy book.
We have Jaud and Rulf who impressed me with their kind hearts and fierce loyalty; Ankran, who turned out to be so much more than I originally expected; Sumael, just an overall badass female character.
I was completely sucked into the story and the violent setting made me truly frightened for the characters.The author is also a master of dialogue.
It is full of intriguing characters, great dialogue and has twists and turns around every corner.
H-H-H-H-H-H-H-HOLY SHHHHHHHIIIIIT!THE TWISTS!
THE TURNS!
THE CONSPIRACIES!
THE BETRAYALS!THEY ALL FUCKING BUUUUUURNMY HEART CAN'T TAKE ITI DO NOT KNOW WHAT TO THINKI DO NOT KNOW WHO TO TRUSTIS THERE SOMEONE PLOTTING AGAINST ME TOO*eyes shift to father**eyes shift to mother**eyes shift to brothers**eyes shift to grandmother*Curious.....
very curious indeed....*eyes shift to dog*Okay, you're cool, dog.
I doubt you even know what I'm talking about.BUT CRAAAAAAPThis.
Is. AWESOME.This.
Is. INTELLIGENT.This.
Book.
Book.
Dark.
No fucking candy romance.
No mary sues.
No gary sues.
All human affairs in its dark glory.AKA: YA Fantasy at its very finest <3 <3 <3FINAL VERDICT: 100000/5 STARS
It's hard to describe the feelings of reading this book.
It starts off with Yarvi training to be a minister.
Yarvi is young and born with only one good hand so of course he is teased and tormented.I hate to give away any of the story because it's an adventure I think you should take without any foresight into it.
RUN AND READ THIS BOOK!!I'm so glad I started reading fantasy or I would have missed this gem.
I will be reading more from Joe Abercrombie!
Many thanks to Netgalley and Del Ray for an ARC of this book for an honest review.
That’s fine Yarvi has avoided them all and lost himself in books and learning, until the fates intervened and both his father and brother are slaughtered making him the king.
But it isn’t that easy and Yarvi has a lot to learn about what it really takes to be a man and a king, after being betrayed and tossed into slavery he has to find a way back to his kingdom to take back the throne he didn’t want until it was taken away from him.
Sometimes words will get you more than a sword and I love those moments in books.The story and journey are amazing.
This plot is fast paced and quite exciting, though the initial change in fortune for Prince Yarvi was so obviously going to happen.
I think I’d have preferred this book a little more had there been a variety in the point of view characters; it would have made the story more dynamic and interesting.
“What is the world coming to when an honest man cannot burn corpses without suspicion?" asked Notning.”Indeed, unlike other books, by the author, this is told from the perspective of just one character: Yarvi.
I spent a lot of time smirking and a lot of time loving Yarvi.
The only things I wasn't sold on was the averageness of the story line.
(They spent a lot of time rowing, and as much as I love Yarvi's snippy comebacks...it was kind of boring.) Then they walk through snow and complain about being caught and I snoozed just a little.
I'm not the biggest epic-fantasy reader because I get scared of long chapters and long books and scarily complex world builiding.
So if you're hesitant for epic fantasy but still love it?
Heck yes. This is how you write High Fantasy. SO GOOD. So easy to follow. Oh man. Review to come!My Blog ~ Instagram ~ Twitter ~ Etsy
Wow, this is only $0.99 right now on Amazon!
I didn't like the second one as much, but this one was great!https://www.amazon.com/Half-King-Shat...This was really good.
I'm not even gonna go into what the book is about because I accidentally read a spoiler in a review when I started reading it that wasn't marked and I don't want to do that to anybody.
It's fantasy - the way fantasy should be.
The pacing is great.
This, I guess, is supposed to be YA, but there is some graphic violence, and it really doesn't read that way to me.
It's set in an ancient viking-type world.I totally recommend.
Loved it.(view spoiler)[I was so sad when Jaud died.
(hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
4.5 stars "The fool strikes," she had said. "The wise man smiles, watches, and learns.Then strikes." Sorry if this review contains a lot of incoherent gushing and fangirling. I just sent my brain to her room for not making me read this sooner. Come to think of it, all of you deserve to be there, too. You know who you are, my so-called friends with your four-star, five-star reviews. Why didn't you tell me to read this sooner??? All of you, room. Yarvi is about to take his minister's test when new
I just sent my brain to her room for not making me read this sooner.
Yarvi is about to take his minister's test when news comes of his father's and brother's death.
Suddenly he's the new king of a country he never expected—or wanted—to rule.Up until then, I was pretty happy.
I was so looking forward to Tyrion Yarvi using his wits to navigate the courts and prove to naysayers that a disabled king who can't hold a sword is no less awesome.
The new halfman is here.My review of Half the WorldMy review of Half A War
While this book lacks the depth and complexity of his previous work this is still a fast-paced, enjoyable read filled with betrayal, hardship and adventure and fleshed out with well-written characters.
While the majority of this book's plot is made up of commonly seen and easily predictable storylines (young prince unexpectedly comes to power, protagonist sold into slavery, trek through the wilderness), these storylines are still well-written, fast-paced and filled with great characters.
I'm hoping this point will be explored more in the future books.This was a fun, fast paced story filled interesting characters.
I quite liked that aspect of the story though I have seen it executed better in a number of other fantasy series.
I was not a giant fan of Abercrombie's writing style but it was passable enough to keep me mildly engaged for the greater part of the story.
The whole mid phase of the story was entertaining but the ending disappointing in a whole lot of ways.
I liked Yarvi well enough but was disappointed in his story arc on the whole and not impressed that he ended up being such a passive lead character.
From all the gushing, I was led to believe that reading a novel penned by Lord Grimdark (as Mr. Abercrombie is called) would not only enthrall me in his fantasy spell but leave me a meth-like addict begging for more.
These things plus the fact that the latter two revelations were deus ex machina endings definitely made me sigh a bit and set the book aside until I stopped shaking my head at the very tidy and convenient conclusion Mr. Abercrombie penned.The second problem with Half a King was that it had no fantasy elements in it.
Spoilers ahead!Buddy read with AlexaThank you NetGalley for providing me a copy for review.Actual Rating:Overall-4.5 starsYA-5 starsDark Fantasy 3.5 stars Strong men are many, wise men are few. I LOVED IT!! LOVE LOVE LOVE LOVED IT! Here is why... A man swings the scythe and the ax, a man pulls the oar and makes fast the know. Most of all a man hold the shield. A man holds the line. A man stands by his shoulder-man. What kind of man can do none of these things?I didn't ask for half a hand.I didn'
Yarvi is Prince of Gettland and studying to enter the Ministry, when he learns of the deaths of his father and brother, in turn making him King.
"Who are you, person?""A cook's boy.""Shall we play a guessing game of what my name might be?""You are Grom-gil-Gorm, Breaker of Swords and Maker of Orphans, King of the Vanstermen.""You win!
I, Yarvi, Son of Uthrik and Laithlin, King of Gettland, swear an oath!
Let my brother and my father and my ancestors buried here bear witness.
I don't want to spoil anything else, but read this book...do it...Abercrombie has such a way of engaging a reader and not letting you go.
Es la primera vez que le abro las puertas de mi casa a Abercrombie y ya lo he adoptado! Es más, estoy deseandito saber cómo continua esta trilogía...
I was pretty much immediately engaged with the story, interested to find out more, and compelled to read on.In hindsight, the second half is much stronger than the first.
And by the end I was perfectly satisfied with the story, like watching a really thrilling action movie and feeling so relieved by the end's resolution.And that, along with the pacing, is another excellent aspect of this novel: the cinematic writing.
While I struggled a bit to visualize the world of the novel, each chapter played out like a scene from a movie or television show in my mind.
4.5 Ya sabéis que si algo me gusta son los buenos personajes, y el protagonista de esta historia es uno de los mejores que he leído en mucho tiempo.
Yarvi es ya de por sí interesante al inicio de la historia, pero pasa por absolutamente de todo, y la forma en que evoluciona es impresionante.
Está acompañado de un elenco de secundarios no menos profundos y atractivos como personajes, y de una historia llena de tensión e intrigas, envuelta en una ambientación y un estilo deliciosos de leer.
Pero fijaos si me gustó la historia, que ni siquiera me importó demasiado.
With hungry smile and polished sword, both unsheathed, he delivers endless entertainment throughout the pages of Half a King.
“’What do you trust?’ asked Yarvi.Nothing held up his sword, and did not so much smile as show broken teeth.
“No.’”** the fangirling section concludes with compliments to Sister Nastassja, a connoisseur of homicidal maniacs**Finally, it needs to be said, Joe Abercrombie, that in the de Vries annals you will go down as a man able to give me two plot twists I didn’t see coming.
4.5 of 5 stars at The BiblioSanctum http://bibliosanctum.com/2014/06/29/b...Half a King is marketed as a Young Adult novel so I’m also going to label it as such, but doing so also feels wrong somehow.
You can never predict for a certainty where he will go with a story, and since I’ve enjoyed his crafty, clever writing in style in a lot of his adult books, I’m really glad to see it here in Half a King as well.
Again, THANK YOU.In sum, this feels like a young adult book.
He de decir que el libro no me ha desagradado, ya que es bastante fácil de leer y no es muy extenso, pero me he pasado la lectura del libro esperando un giro inesperado, esperando algo más.
Y justo ha llegado en la última página, que deja la historia abierta y emocionante para el siguiente libro.Pero he de reconocer que no he sido capaz de sentirme identificada con ningún personaje, no me han parecido unos personajes completos ni complejos, sino simples marionetas en manos del autor.
