https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/201342.Mattimeo
It is a wonderful book and only one of the many books in the Redwall series for children but read by all ages: written by the brilliant late Brian Jacques.
There is so much in these books to teach children on a deeper level too.
In this book evil is in the form of the wicked fox Slagar and his equally unpleasant but often dim witted followers.
Slagar has a score to settle with the Redwallers and is out for revenge in retaliation for the death of his evil mother, an alleged healer and facial injuries to himself in an earlier book.
My first introduction to fantasy as an eleven year old. Still has a very special place in my heart. <3
This is, I believe, the most epically powerful adventure that Brian Jacques had to this point created.
There are enough gritty, determined, strong-willed heroes to fill a dozen super-novels, and enough dastardly, cold-blooded, wholly evil villains to keep them busy for an additional dozen books.
Mattimeo is all at once a coming-of-age story, an epic fantasy, an epic adventure, a social commentary, a love story, a narrative about the strength of family ties and the determination that serves as a bedrock to the heart and soul of every human being, and much more that you will find upon reading it.
Probably my least favorite.
Believe me, if you don't know what material that mask is made of by the end of the book then you have some serious attention problems.
For example, at one point, Slagar gets angry at an impudent Mattimeo and starts beating the young mouse with a cane.
And yet, according to Brian Jacques, Mattimeo does not feel the blows at all.
Forget feeling the blows, Mattimeo should be crushed by them!
But despite these things, I really enjoyed the story of Mattimeo, and I would recommend it to anyone who has read other books in the series or who just loves animal fantasy.
A good addition to Redwall, but it shares the issues of all books in this series- that is its predictability, and the sameness of characters from book to book.
They all also have the same plot, of something is stolen from Redwall, or an evil horde comes to attack it.
It is middle grade writing, with a few harder words, but they are easily definable from context, and the fact that there are so many in the series lends itself to lots of reading if one is liked.
For adults reading it, I would suggest interspersing it with other books die to the similarities between books.
Jee-Uk YangMrs.Ebarvia11-29-07 The book that I read was Mattimeo by Brian Jacques. It is the third book in the Redwall series. He published his first book, Redwall, in 1986. Some other famous novels are The Bellmaker, The Legend of Luke, Rakkety Tam, and more. Mattimeo is about a rat, Mattimeo, fighting against other animal armies under Slagar the Cruel with his friends and his dad’s army. The story ends by killing Slagar the Cruel. The interesting thing that I found in this book is that the aut
Mattimeo is about a rat, Mattimeo, fighting against other animal armies under Slagar the Cruel with his friends and his dad’s army.
The interesting thing that I found in this book is that the author used animals instead of using humans.
The author used animals just like humans.
Most novels about war I have read involved animals.
When I first started reading this book, I thought it was a churlish book because animals are used as humans.
Despite its weaknesses, such as obvious plots, the novel is an enjoyable one to read.
It gets better and better as you read the book.
Jacques' endings, y'all.
They feel like a foretaste of eternity.I didn't used to like this one because it disturbed me for personal reasons (watching the animated show as a little kid didn't help), but reading it again, wow, it's fabulous.There's the importance of community and sacrifice, of bravery and love.
And, as all of the Redwall books, there's darkness and the fight against it, but joy and goodness has the same weight.
I feel like many writers who want to write darkness don't place enough emphasis on light as well, and a lot can be learned from Jacques on the compelling balance.
My new favorite Redwall book.
Mattimeo is a sequel to Redwall and Mossflower books.
The peaceful creatures of the Redwall Abbey are preparing a feast for the turn of the season.
Young Mattimeo is son of Matthias who is Redwall's warrior, which makes him a target.
A sly fox named Slagar the Cruel and his band of slavers are planning to capture Mattimeo and young ones from the abbey to work as slaves in this mysterious underground kingdom.
After being drugged at their feast and discovering that their young ones were gone, Matthias and his 2 companions set out on a long and epic journey fighting evil and finding new companions while they find their young ones.
Matthias and his wife, Cornflower, have had a son, Mattimeo, who gets stolen (along with the abbey's young ones) by a fox who blames the abbey for a deformity.
Through rescuing the abbey's young, the Redwall warriors rescue other slaves, while the animals at the abbey deal with invading birds.It's interesting that I have to keep rotating the order that I read these books or I get tired of them.
Occasionally I get tired of this book, and I had 4 stars for this one's rating, but I really like this book.
Mattimeo gives "Redwall" fans a sense of adult storytelling that is appealing to the older fans of this series. Mattimeo is the son of Matthias, Warrior of Redwall. He and a few other woodland children are captured by the sly fox, Slagar the Cruel. Matthias then sets out to find them with the help of a few followers.A must read for Redwall fans!
This book was good, but some parts were stupid.
===================Original review:===================I must say, this book was of a brilliant radiance that rivals the sun. That is, I would have to say that if I was planning to exaggerate a wee bit. But, seeing as the mood to exaggerate has not taken me, I shall instead say that this book was very well written and quite funny. I would have been sad to put it aside, except that I spurned it at the exact second that I finished in order to read  Wrath of the Storm , but that is not relevant, so
===================Original review:===================I must say, this book was of a brilliant radiance that rivals the sun.
That is, I would have to say that if I was planning to exaggerate a wee bit.
But, seeing as the mood to exaggerate has not taken me, I shall instead say that this book was very well written and quite funny.
I would have been sad to put it aside, except that I spurned it at the exact second that I finished in order to read 
, but that is not relevant, so I suppose I'll usurp my power and stop writing this review to avoid any more irrelevance.
The story bounces between that of Mattimeo and that of Mathias, so we learn about the different adventures each party had in their quests to survive and succeed.Here's the thing about these books, and remember I am listening to them on my morning walks.
If I sat and read them, maybe I would feel differently, but I did read the first book with my eyeballs and it too felt entirely too long for the story being told.
The chapters ended in a way that made it feel the book was finished, and I was pat myself on the back.
That was the purpose for that character--so it was with the nameless shrews & sparrows, who were the only ones to be killed in the battles against the evil hordes.
The whole tale was just too far-fetched to be believed, from the grief-stricken parents who swear to find their kidnapped youth, but stop in critical moments to feast & rest up (what parent would stop like that when their kidnapped child was in view & in danger--no matter how hungry or tired they were?), to the battles where thousands of huge, evil, seasoned armies fall beneath the swords of a handful of warriors...& yet nobody (except a few nameless shrews) are killed.
Mattimeo and his other young friends from Redwall tries to escape a terrible fate.
His father Matthias would go off with his friends to get the young kids of Redwall.
I can connect to the world how a parent would do anything to get their child.
In the book it's Matthias trying to get his son Mattimeo and Jess trying to get her son Sam. In the real world parents would do the same.
That shows that things might come to a full circle from Martin to Matthias to Mattimeo to Martin and then over again.
Unlike the other Redwall books (see my review of Redwall), this book was actually different and therefore interesting.
Mattimeo is the stuck-up, spoiled son of Matthias (hero of Redwall), who is captured by the fox Slagar the Cruel.
This book excels over the other Redwall books because it reunites characters from previous books (a rarity in the Redwall series), it covers a wide variety of strange and different terrains, and Jacques actually creates a believably ominous atmosphere as the slaves near their terrible destination.
If you have to read another Redwall, read Mattimeo.
I must say, this book was of a brilliant radiance that rivals the sun.
That is, I would have to say that if I was planning to exaggerate a wee bit.
But, seeing as the mood to exaggerate has not taken me, I shall instead say that this book was very well written and quite funny.
I would have been sad to put it aside, except that I spurned it at the exact second that I finished in order to read  Wrath of the Storm , but that is not relevant, so I suppose I'll usurp my power and stop writing this re
I must say, this book was of a brilliant radiance that rivals the sun.
That is, I would have to say that if I was planning to exaggerate a wee bit.
But, seeing as the mood to exaggerate has not taken me, I shall instead say that this book was very well written and quite funny.
I would have been sad to put it aside, except that I spurned it at the exact second that I finished in order to read 
Wrath of the Storm
, but that is not relevant, so I suppose I'll usurp my power and stop writing this review to avoid any more irrelevance.
Adventure galore!
I didn't remember much of Mattimeo at all (from having read it as a child), and it kept me guessing all the way through.
Matthias and his friends lead the reader on an adventure to save the children of Redwall Abbey, but of course Jacques gives us the story from the rescuers perspective, as well as the young hostages, Mattimeo and his friends.
But Cornflower and the Redwallers that are left behind deal with an adventure all their own as well.
As usual, Jacques weaves a fascinating story mixed with tragedy, a little comedy, some love, suspense galore and of course, bravery and battle.
Wow book three already. I am hooked on this series. They both intrigue me and they are written so well that you just have to keep reading to find out what happens next other wise the anticipation is juts too much!
Even better than the first two in the series. Thoroughly enjoyable for adults too, maybe because the villains are more intriguing and better sketched
Such a cute series. I encourage all parents to read the Redwall books to their children. John is reading a chapter to me every night before we go to bed.
This book was an amazing book. It had a lot of action and mystery. I want to continue to read books by Brian Jacques.
It was so good I love these books
Another great Redwall story, and an extremely well performed audio book.
With the first two books those moments only felt like a danger to my wallet and waist line, however considering the events taking place this time around I started to find myself growing angry with the characters.
Several of them had their children taken from them and yet they find the time to stop, on more than one occasion to make better meals than I do on maximum effort days and play around or just take in the scenery.
My final complaint was the handling of a few character's deaths.
I am enjoying this series, though I only seem to read about 1 book a year. Trying to fit them in and read the series in order. As the reviews say, if you liked Watership Down, you'll like this. Too bad it took me 20 years to find and get to them!
These really are paint by numbers fantasy. But I enjoy them. This one was my favorite of the 5 or 6 I had read in the past and I still found it enjoyable.
Learning the fate of Matthias and Mattimeo after the defeat of Cluny of the Scourge was more thrilling for me; particularly the father/son dynamic, and being the child of a hero.
Once more I felt the inclusion of others being a hero of the moment, particularly female characters, is a high point of this series.
The next book in publication order has a female main character, and again, returns to the past offering more information about the landscape, its history, and its connection to the beloved Redwall.
Nevertheless, I was able to read "Mattimeo" with only one check-out renewal from our library!
I think, in short, there was just one too many storylines going on for me to follow.
I believe the storyline with Ironbeak, although entertaining, ended up taking away from what could have been a really cool side-by-side, with Matthias embarking on his last adventure before passing the sword to Mattimeo, and Mattimeo being forced to grow up and become the next Warrior Of Redwall.
If Mattimeo was supposed to be to "Mattimeo" what Matthias was to "Redwall", then I think more depth was warranted in character development, particularly for Mattimeo.
