https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1168341.Physics_of_the_Impossible

They include time machines, the possibility of hyperspace travel, and travel through wormholes.”“Class 3 impossibilities: These are technologies that violate the known laws of physics.
If they do turn out to be possible they would represent a fundamental shift in our understanding of physics.”He also goes into detailing the classes of civilizations, which is important because there are just something you can’t do until you have the power to do them.
(In the event their mother star is about to explode they can just move to another system, perhaps even move their planet.)Type 3 civilization: Those that can utilize the power of an entire galaxy.
Looking for something substantive? Look for this author, his books are so interesting and engrossing. Here he dissects all the Sci-Fi tropes and explains how each of them is impossible, or what the hell it would take to make it a reality. I learned quite a lot and it was not too jumbled for a non-scientist like me to read.
(And do you know what, if I was killed by a bullet aimed under Newtons Laws and these ended up being proven to be wrong, well, I'd be asking for my money back) What he doesn’t like to do is say stuff is completely impossible and will always remain impossible (even when discussing faster than light travel, for example, or perpetual motion machines – although he does point out that there are one or two fairly serious problems that need to be addressed if these are ever likely to work).I really do understand that people don’t like it when other people (you know, like me) start talking about things being impossible.
Description: A fascinating exploration of the science of the impossible—from death rays and force fields to invisibility cloaks—revealing to what extent such technologies might be achievable decades or millennia into the future.One hundred years ago, scientists would have said that lasers, televisions, and the atomic bomb were beyond the realm of physical possibility.
In Physics of the Impossible, the renowned physicist Michio Kaku explores to what extent the technologies and devices of science fiction that are deemed equally impossible today might well become commonplace in the future.From teleportation to telekinesis, Kaku uses the world of science fiction to explore the fundamentals—and the limits—of the laws of physics as we know them today.
Although I have some education along these lines and have watched and read quite a lot, I still find it very difficult to follow.In this book/audio book, Dr. Kaku takes us on a journey into all of those "sci-fi sciences" we've witnessed on Star Trek and the like.
He helps the lay person to understand what is or is not "potentially" possible in accordance with the laws and theories of physics that are most accepted today.It is a real pleasure to take this journey if you are, in the least, a sci-fi reader or a geek who gets excited by science.
This is the stuff of Kaku's riotous introduction to modern physics and if I'd read it when I was in school it would have blown my goddamn mind.I went into this book anticipating that I wouldn't learn all of that much - after all I have a masters degree in physics and read widely before studying at university - and that all the stories Kaku covered would be all too familiar to me already.
For the first half of the book this was true, and his explanations of the science part of science fiction was either familiar to me or stuff I had worked out for myself.
Great introduction to current issues in Physics - without the pain of complex equations. Also, fun as the author esplores the plausibility of the physics in the Star Trek, Star Wars, and Time travel movies and books.
In this way, even if one’s understanding of physics is quite limited, one gets a better sense of the relative difficulty of creating or harnessing some of these phenomena.The book contains ten Class I impossibilities, three Class II, and two Class III.
In some cases, such as with telepathy and psychokinesis, Kaku doesn’t so much explain possible physics approaches as point to existing technology (brain-computer interfaces) and upcoming research (brain-mapping projects) and enthuse about how much we’ll probably learn in the next few decades.
"بهذه الجملة يختم ميشيو كاكو حديثه الشيق عن "المستحيلات" التي سبق و قسمها إلى ثلاثة أصناف: مستحيلات من الصنف الأول: و هي التقانات المستحيلة اليوم و التي لا تخالف قوانين الفيزياء المعروفةمستحيلات من الصنف الثاني: تقانات تقع على حافة المفاهيم الفيزيائية المعروفةمستحيلات من الصنف الثالث: و هي التقانات التي تناقض قوانين الفيزياء في شكلها الحالي على الأقل.
بينما اقتصر الباب الثالث على الآلة الدائمة الحركة و الإستبصارلوهلة أولى سيبدو للقارئ أنه أمام كتاب يتناول الخيال العلمي و إن كان ذلك غير خاطئ تماما إلا أن الكتاب علمي بالأساس و كتب بلغة سهلة تجعله متاحا لشريحة واسعة من القراء.
سنة ونصف أقرأ في هذا الكتاب أدركت فيها جهلي المدقع بالفيزياء وبالحياةوالسنين الضوئية التي يسبقنا بها
Čovjek se potrudio, nije da nije, ali mi se zavrtjelo u glavi od džepnih univerzuma, antielektrona i stringova...
While I really liked this book, a lot, it felt incomplete to me in that much of the math and science behind these concepts is not very in depth.
Sure, it's not a text book, but I would have liked to have seen equations or at least references to something that could explain the math.
Also, while there is a TARDIS on the cover, there is no TARDIS, and no mention of Doctor Who at all in the book.
I felt slightly cheated, but not enough to not give it a five star rating.
Vulcan was a Roman God, Hephaestus was the Greek God. Bad editor.
Bad.
Michio Kaku, the Henry Semat Professor of Theoretical Physics at the City College of New York, tries to answer these questions from a physicist’s point of view and draws a possible outline when should these impossibilities turn into ‘almost’ everyday regularities.
Being a human, if the rapid progression of science makes you wonder about what are the technologies individuals of your species are going to enjoy in the far, far future, this book is for you!
Class II impossibilities (faster than light, time travel and parallel universes) are the ones that “sit at the very edge of our understanding of the physical world.” They may be understood on a scale of millennia to millions of years.

Notice that I filed this one under fiction. Kaku is a HACK. This whole book is an exercise in misunderstanding the word "impossible". There is no scientific value to this book. It is a fanciful weave of outright scientific untruth, confusing metaphors, and semantic diarrhea. DO NOT READ THIS BOOK!
If we can develop high-temperature superconductors, we would have the capability to cheaply create powerful magnetic fields that would open the door to true flying vehicles (or even flying belts) or the floating cities of Niven’s Ringworld (though their ultimate fate might give us pause in that particular application).Class II impossibilities are also advances conceivable within our current understanding of physics but require technologies far beyond what we’re capable of and probably impossible for civilizations of less-than-interstellar scope (see NOTE below).
Мічіо Каку - це високий стандарт популяризації науки.
Книжка про складні речі, квантову фізику і вскяі такі вєщі, але написана легко і просто, з хорошим почуттям гумору і доречними екскурсами в історію.
Варто шукати видання з актуальними науковими коментарями, бо видана книжка вже давненько у мірках сучасної науки.
Багато ідей, над якими цікаво думати!Моя улюблена цитата про невидимого Гарі Потера:"To make Harry Potter invisible, one would have to liquefy him, boil him to create steam, crystallize him, heat him again, and then cool him, all of which would be quite difficult to accomplish, even for a wizard."
Absolutely loved this, but unfortunately had to gloss over some of the waffly parts as I too much uni reading to do at the time.I will probably re-read this book at some point though because I enjoyed most of it, and the parts I skipped over may be worth revisiting when I'm in a better mood.
Class I impossibility :They are technologies that are impossible to achieve with today's standards, however they do not violate the laws of physics, and should be achievable in the next century or so in one form or the other, they include: teleportation, antimatter engines and telepathy to list a few.2.
Class II impossibility: these are technologies that do not violate the laws of physics, however our understanding of them is not complete.
I was impressed enough with his talk to order a couple of his books, this one among them.He divides phenomena into 3 levels of the impossible.
Class I impossibilities are those that are "impossible today but that do not violate the known laws of physics." Examples would include teleportation, antimatter engines and "certain forms of telepathy, psychokinesis and invisibility."Class II phenomena include those that "sit at the very edge of our understanding of the physical world" and include time machines, travel through wormholes and hyperspace travel.
ნამდვილი საბადოა სამეცნიერო ფანტასტიკის და ზოგადად მეცნიერებით დაინტერესებულთათვის. რაც მთავარია მარტივი და გასაგები ენით წერია ისეთი რთული თემები როგორიცაა პლაზმური ველები, ტელეპორტაცია, დროითი კონტინიუმი და ათასი სხვა თემა <3 მოკლედ უაღრესად საინტერესო და დროული იყო ჩვენი ქვეყნისთვის, იმ ფონზე როცა მსგავსი თემატიკის 1 წიგნიც არ მოგვეპოვება. გამომცემლობა არეტეს მადლობა
There's no denying in the scientific researches. Kaku encouraged for free thinking, "thinking out of the box!"I believe teleportation is the most interesting matter in this book. Hence it doesn't matter what's your beliefs bit you need to bear in mind that everything is possible if not at the current time it going to be happening in the future. Whether you like it or not. Thank you Kaku
В литературном плане мой 2017-ый прошёл под знаком фантастики, поэтому считаю книгу рассматривающую научную подоплёку тех или иных популярных концепций (таких как силовые поля, телепортация, невидимость, путешествия во времени и так далее ) и оценивающую вероятность их воссоздания в наше время достойным его завершением.
Слог показался мне довольно доступным, в большей степени чем у Стивена Хокинга и Брайана Грина, и от этого, на мой взгляд, никак не пострадало содержание.
Многого ожидала от книг Митио Каку, и ни капельки не разочарована – твёрдая пятерка.
Кстати, забавный для меня момент: книга написана в 2008-ом году, до обнаружения гравитационных волн, и автор в ней предсказывает, что их зарегистрируют между 2008-2030 :)
کیف کردم!
That sounds like Coke Zero, only without cool metal container that you can cut the top off and use as a tiny plant-pot.I love reading about all this sciency/geeky stuff and this book is clever and it ties in Science Fiction movies, so what's not to like; but here's a better idea for a book - 'Things That Were Impossible When The Human Race Was Still Competing With Sabre-Tooth Tigers For Food But Are Now For Sale In Your Local Shopping Centre'.My head got swooped upon by a helicopter-buzzy-thingy (no, that's not the official name if you want to buy one) in Designer Outlet in York at the weekend and just for a moment I pictured myself roaring like a T-Rex, snatching it out of the sky with my feeble forepaws and then crushing it with my gigantic, razor-sharp dinosaur jaws!!Thankfully, I just managed to restrain myself.But just think - all of this helicopter-buzzy-thingy stuff would have been impossible not long back.Look how far we've come!(ok - yeah, I'm being ironic again)
Searching for the right person to talk to me about science has proven difficult, and I probably didn't even know it was difficult to connect to an author on this subject before I got to know Michio Kaku.
In Physics of the Impossible, readers will explore possibilities of sci-fi features in real-time.
Michio Kaku is an optimistic child where sci-fi is concerned -- something I think takes a real purist to be able to defend against time.
It was a scene I remember well, because at the time I liked the idea so much, but I didn't know what to do with it.
This book had example after example after example of all of the different things they said we would NEVER be able to do as a human race and just a decade or so later we are doing far more than what scientists said was impossible.
The coolest part about this book in my opinion is the concept of time travel.
Time travel sounds so ridiculous and out of the question at this day and age but there are many notable scientists that agree with Kaku when he says it's not a probability; it's more of a "when?".
After a five-star impression that the Author had left me with his "Hyperspace", I couldn't give this book more than a four. I liked it very much, but I didn't feel that interested in all those ray guns, death stars and light sabres. The second and the third part of the book were more like "Hyperspace", exploring the very edge of theoretical physics and its impact on our understanding of the reality - and these parts I liked much better. I can't say I've understood everything, but even the phantom of the picture is bewildering.
Kaku (Parallel Worlds, Beyond Einstein, Hyperspace) introduces complex theories of physics to general readers. As The Economist notes, Kaku "makes a good stab at explaining difficult physics. But his grasp of his subject is perhaps trumped by his knowledge of science fiction." While Kaku writes in language designed to captivate nonscience readers, it's his references to pop culture
