https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1044355.When_You_Are_Engulfed_in_Flames
In our present culture, we sometimes write "LOL" meaning laugh out loud to recognize something is funny, but this is usually just a smile or an acknowledgment of a humorous situation.
I can sincerely type LOL, or even ROFL, or LSHIS (laughed so hard I snorted).
In between the laughs is the not altogether likable persona of Sedaris.
He may impart self deprecating humor, or maybe he is personifying a satire on our culture, or both, but many times in the narrative, organized into short essays or vignettes, I had to admit that I did not like my narrator.
This smacks to me of a writer who's run out of things to write about; and yet there are essays about old neighbors ("That's Amore", one of the collection's best), so it seems Sedaris still has enough memories to last a few more books.I heard that in some interview somewhere, Sedaris confessed that he was getting to the point in his life where he'd act in a scene explicitly for the purposes of creating something to write about.
They can involve pedestrian things like, oh I dunno, poop, or furniture, or struggling through a language class.Anyway, if I had wondered that my admiration for David Sedaris was a result of his taming my PTSD from a god-awful book, now I know that isn't true.
Somehow I loved to hear how he, David, coughed a lozenge onto the crotch of the sleeping woman next to him on the airplane, who had earlier called him an asshole for not trading seats with her husband at the bulkhead.
Bravo, David Sedaris.
4 1/2 stars."The houses looked like something a child might draw, a row of shaky squares with triangles on top. Add a door, add two windows. Think of putting a tree in the front yard, and then decide against it because branches aren't worth the trouble." (Page 27)"...I referred to him as Sir Lance-a-Lot. 'Once is not a lot,' he said. This was true, but Sir Lance Occasionally lacks a certain ring." (Page 238)Thanks for reading!
A real God wouldn’t let that happen.” And his prediction that, “It’s safe to assume that by 2025, guns will be sold in vending machines, but you won’t be able to smoke anywhere in America.” With the Supreme Court’s recent ruling on D.C’s gun ban, Sedaris’s prescience is foreboding.But what I found most interesting about When You Are Engulfed in Flames was the About the Author: “David Sedaris’s half-dozen books have been translated into twenty-five languages, including Estonian, Greek, and Bahasa.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/The funniest collection by David Sedaris that I’ve read so far. There just aren’t words to express how happy these books make me. Sedaris is by far my favorite humorist/essayist/columnist/whatever-ist you want to call him. His writing can turn my frown upside down and always leaves me laughing like a lunatic. My infatuation actually began with another Sedaris – David’s sister Amy. Anyone who looks like this: But prefers to get paid for
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/The funniest collection by David Sedaris that I’ve read so far.
My infatuation actually began with another Sedaris – David’s sister Amy. Anyone who looks like this:
Sadly, as much as I love dear David, it will most likely always be from afar.
My David and I may never meet, but I will continue to stalk love him and shout my praise of his hilarious books from the rooftops.Sidenote: This was my final selection for the Kansas City Public Library's Winter Reading Challenge.
Herein are more of his usual daily-life topics: getting to know the neighbors (I.E. the local child molester), his fascination with creepy shit, the annoying people that enter his life, relationship issues (poor Hugh comes in for it in this one!), his pet spider and a mish-mash of other stuff.Sedaris is very open about his personal issues.
His daily life over the last few years, due to his own fame and fortune, has become less relatable for us commoners.
Rating: 3.5Recommended: For people that prefer observational humor and would rather steer clear of his highly personal anecdotes.

3.5 or maybe 4 - rounding up because I was entertained.
Not my favorite Sedaris.
There were some of the usual amusing tales - most of which in this book took place in France or on an airplane.
The last 1/3 of the book (or so) was a cross between what it is like to live in Japan and being a smoker from start to finish.
I don't think I would recommend that someone start here if they want to try Sedaris, but if you have read and enjoyed him before, this will be a good one to read.
Dear Mr. Sedaris,First off, I understand that you live in France.
Where they speak French, because it's France.
Thank you for reminding me you live in France, with your boyfriend, where they speak French, with funny French accents, and funny funny French words, with their French ways, every ten to twelve pages.
It seems to me, however, that even as you celebrate the grotesque in every essay, you seem less in touch with the real, the good, and the positive.
It appeared he was now left with the task of finding hilarity and poignancy in the life of a rich, celebrated author.
This would be a real problem if they weren't entertaining (most are), but they lack the quality of desperation that so fueled his earlier work.
Add to that the author's note at the beginning of the book: "The events described in these stories are realish.
Certain characters have fictitious names and identifying characteristics," along with a recent article from The New Republic revealing him as a serial exaggerator, and I'm left with the impression that his best work is behind him.
The comment about having a 400 dollar sweater that looked like it had been thrown to a tiger and thus was already ruined and incapable of being further ruined..
And saying a cracker tasted like penis.
And lots of little one-liners.
But what's really awesome about his stuff is that it's MORE than just a bunch of one-liners.
I think.Admittedly a few times he seemed to kind of go..
I think it's really apt for this book, because, besides several literal references to skeletons and smoking in this book..
Kind of awesomely dark and a bit morbid, I think.
Actually, his narrating is probably one of the only things I did like about this book.As an avid listener of NPR's This American Life, I have, from time to time, heard stories from David Sedaris and found them highly enjoyable.
If I hadn't listened to the audiobook on my hour-long commute to and from work this week and instead had chosen to read the stories, I probably would've given up after the first few.
In the end though, I didn't really love any of them.I will, however, check out another Sedaris audiobook because 1.) his narration really is great and 2.) I've heard much better things about his other collections.
Sedaris does in fact do it again and apparently there's an endless well of funny stuffy, a font of hilarity, within this man.This is another great collection, on par with his other works for all the Sedaris fans out there.
You got something better to do?'”As with his other collections Sedaris has a very matter of fact method for transferring his hilarious life musings to the page.
And I love of his use of the word “faggoty.” Two thumbs up for anyone looking for something light and a must-read for Sedaris fans.
And nothing in When You Are Engulfed in Flames makes me adore him less — not even his ultra-competitiveness with children and his cavalier attitude towards cancer.
When You Are Engulfed in Flames explores the give-and-take of long-term relationships, some objectionable neighbors, the struggles of quitting smoking or learning a new language, and Japanese society — always in pretty funny ways.
While not as hilarious as SantaLand Diaries or Me Talk Pretty One Day, readers — whether longtime Sedaris groupies like me or newbies — won’t go wrong with When You Are Engulfed in Flames, which is still laugh-out-loud funny in parts and pretty humorous otherwise.Lastly, there’s only one way to listen to a David Sedaris book: That’s as audiobook, with Sedaris reading it himself.
When I am not reading David Sedaris, I am thinking: David Sedaris, man, there is a popular guy whose books are kind of just always around and not very interesting.
But when I *am* reading him, I'm always like, there are five or six absolutely brilliant punchlines in every one of this guy's books, and the other parts are, y'know, enjoyable enough.
I definitely appreciate that he's a big homo- there's a point in this book where he says that something he's eating tastes kind of like penis- who absolutely kills the Barnes & Noble circuit.
Another exceptional work by Mr. Sedaris. Kept me laughing from beginning to end.
While I certainly won't call this the best David Sedaris collection that you can purchase for yourself, I will say that any David Sedaris is worth reading -- and thus, my star rating.
Much more focus on his boyfriend Hugh or stories tinged with a bit of melancholy.
In general, it's nice to see Hugh making more of an appearance in Sedaris' stories.
Unlike his parents and sisters, though, Sedaris consistently paints Hugh in a good light and one can't help but wonder how Sedaris can function without Hugh at times in this collection.In any case, while you might want to wait to purchase a paperback version, this collection does have several good chuckles.
But, I couldn't stop laughing.
It's not necessarily funny as you're living it, but it's funny reading it in this book.
His essay "The Understudy," about the house-sitter who comes to stay with the six kids for the week had me laughing almost uncontrollably.
I read and re-read particular paragraphs to my husband and my teenaged son, who could not even imagine these people.I also loved "The Smoking Section," where Sedaris makes it clear that he did not become a smoker because of peer pressure at school, low self esteem, ads, or depression.
When I first started reading this book, I found myself disappointedly thinking that it was just more of the same from David Sedaris - stories that either make you laugh out loud or make you cringe (or more often both).
I liked his earlier books because they were more raw, the stories a bit more unexpected.
The beginning of this one felt a little recycled, and I was ready to be done reading it.But then about two-thirds of the way through, the stories lost their formulaic feeling, and an unexpected poignancy crept in.
I think the editors started out with the lightest stories and saved the best for the end.

One chapter is about a boil he had that his partner, Hugh, ended up popping for him.
He's not nearly as entertaining or interesting as any of David's family members, particularly Amy. The book's ending chapters take place in Tokyo.
It's like a SNL skit that starts off funny and you're hoping will just go ahead and end on a good joke but instead it just keeps going--unable to figure out how to wrap it up.
I will forever enjoy his p.o.v., and sense of humor-- but I think all his good stories have been chronicled so far.
Maybe there's a golden order in which to read them (personally, I find chronologically by publishing date works well).
I tend to read him while imagining how he'd say it, and immediately a dry sentence comes to life.I could go on about the maturation I see happening in his work, but I won't.
Not for now.What I will say is that in his past work, he seems to be a sort of bystander in many of his stories.
But rarely is he at the center of the story - the obvious exception being "Me Talk Pretty One Day."This book is different.
I'm one of the few people in this world who does not think that David Sedaris is funny or deserves the critical acclaim that he has received for his various endeavors.His stories are not particularly funny or clever.
Sit some asshole down and tell him to write something remotely funny in a memoir kind of way, and there you have it: David Sedaris.
The New Yorker will publish it at first in short stories and from there someone will ask you to compile it into a somewhat coherent novel and walk around like you did something special.
“The things I've bought from strangers in the dark would curl your hair.”Continuing my audio David Sedaris rereads. I’m not sure what’s more fantastic, Sedaris reading his dark and often hilarious stories, or this van Gogh on the cover.
I will never read another Sedaris book again. I’ll only listen to the audiobooks...;-) Sedaris’s narration is on point...
I still think "Santaland Diaries" is must-read material for this time of year and "Me Talk Pretty One Day" is one of the funniest books I've ever read, full stop.
"When You Are Engulfed in Flames" is not his best book but definitely an entertaining audiobook, particularly when Sedaris attempts voices of some of the characters.
برای منی که اینقدر طرفدار دیوید سداریسم اصلا خوب نبود.تو کتابفروشی یهو دیدم دیوید سداریس! اسم کتابی که ندیدهبودمش ولی ترجمه پیمان خاکسار هم نبود. و چقدر بد ترجمه شدهبود. برای مثال باید به «تجاریِ ممتاز» به جای بیزینس کلس یا «دههی هفتاد سالگی» یا«لولهی گل» به جای رول اشاره کنم. و اینکه چقدر نتونستهبود اصطلاحات رو درست ترجمه کنه و متن ناخوانا شدهبود یه جاهایی حتی!فضای خود کتاب هم کمتر دوستداشتنی بود برام. این بار بیشتر درباره زندگیش با هیو بوده تا پدر و مادر و خواهراش و نمیدونم واقعا همینقدر کمرنگ
برای منی که اینقدر طرفدار دیوید سداریسم اصلا خوب نبود.تو کتابفروشی یهو دیدم دیوید سداریس!
اسم کتابی که ندیده‌بودمش ولی ترجمه پیمان خاکسار هم نبود.
و اینکه چقدر نتونسته‌بود اصطلاحات رو درست ترجمه کنه و متن ناخوانا شده‌بود یه جاهایی حتی!فضای خود کتاب هم کمتر دوست‌داشتنی بود برام.
همش حضور داشته تو تمام داستانا ولی وقتی مقایسه ش میکنم با اون داستانایی که پدر یا مادرش نقش های اصلی بودن٫ اینجا بیشتر قضایا حول خود دیوید سداریس و کارهاش می گشت.)+ البته بخش اولِ سیگاری‌ها خیلی خوب بود و کلا تو بخش سیگاری‌ها و داستان‌های سفرشون به ژاپن خیلی بامزه بود :دی
A solid ★★★★ and damn near close to ★★★★★ that we'll settle for ★★★★. But then again, I'm a serious Sedaris fiend.When You Are Engulfed In Flames makes Sedaris' previous collection,  Dress Your Family in Corduroy and Denim , seem like a disaster, a complete train wreck. Which is unfair because I think that Dress Your Family in Corduroy and Denim is a strong collection with some exemplary essays. And also because I get the feeling that it was a more personal werk for him, that he's a bit more exp
Which is unfair because I think that Dress Your Family in Corduroy and Denim is a strong collection with some exemplary essays.
And also because I get the feeling that it was a more personal werk for him, that he's a bit more exposed and vulnerable in those essays.Thematically, When You Are Engulfed In Flames is a reprise of 
But it's a counterpoint melody to Me Talk Pretty One Day -- arrogant where the other was modest, chagrined where the other took delight.Structurally, this collection is an echo of 
This new collection of essays by David Sedaris is unobjectionable, but fails to come anywhere near the hilarity of his best effort, "Me Talk Pretty Some Day".
Most of the pieces remind one of "Seinfeld", being about nothing but the author's particular neuroses.
If you are new to Sedaris, start with one of his earlier books.
This book is primarily navelgazing, told with little of the wit that characterized his earlier work.It probably didn't help this review that I was reading Sedaris in parallel with Orwell's "A Collection of Essays" - the comparison only serves to emphasize the flimsiness of most of the Sedaris pieces.
