https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33808.The_Lion_s_Game
I think this is the kind of book that can appeal to people who watch 12 episode miniseries on Elizabethan England, except it's nominally a 'thriller,' so to be honest, I'm not sure who the target population is.
I'm definitely a fan of subtle and nuance, and while I would have expected a 700 page book to have time to give some development to understanding a terrorist, he ends up being single-note psychopath.I found myself skimming large swaths to see if there was any improvement in pacing or narrative, but there really wasn't.
Well, I already had this loaded on my Kindle and I’m a long-term fan of DeMille and his wisecracking hero, John Corey.
I won’t summarise the plot, but suffice to say it was not a re-tell of the Hayes book but a clever and compelling narrative of its own.
If you liked ‘Pilgrim’ I think you’ll find plenty to enjoy here too.If you’re already a DeMille follower then you’ll probably have read not only this book but also the follow-up (The Lion) and the other Corey adventures too.
I liked the book however, to be honest, I had high expectations from it which did not live up to it. The book is about two FBI agents on the trail of a Libyan terrorist, who is on a plot to avenge the 1986 bombing of Libya, massacring Americans along the way. The book is interesting at places where it plots the terrorist's movements and at places it becomes a drag. However, the highlight of the narrative is the dry humour and the one-liners the author uses liberally in this story.Strictly for DeMille fans only ! This was my first.
I've had plenty of time to think about John Corey's second outing, and my final judgment is: I enjoyed the fuck outta this book.
While Plum Island was a strict first person POV inside John Corey's cock-oriented caveman mind, The Lion's Game offers many different third-person POVs in addition to Corey's strict first person.
The Lion's Game is far superior when compared to the first book in the series.My only complaint is a rather big one.
Fast talking, quick witted, led around completely by the wrong head, John Corey's adventures are big fun for those guys who like big books and cannot lie.Final Judgment: Where's the next one?
Pending.
I'm a little surprised at how much I like this book.
While the first in the Corey seriesPlum Island was good, it didn't inspire me to run right out and grab this one up.
I must say this one drew me in more and held my interest.The book is of necessity a little dated as it was written before 9-11 and deals with Middle East Terrorists.
There are plots and counter-plots there is the (insistently) New York cop John Corey who we met earlier...but with a new romantic interest.
The book opens well and doesn't spend any time in slow build up or aimlessness.
4  stars. Excellent suspense thriller. I didn’t want to stop reading.It’s a long book. I had a hard time putting it down. Lots of suspense. Many times I was saying come on, come on - eager to find out what was going to happen next. John Corey is a smartalecky, arrogant cop working for the FBI. He has many entertaining one-liners and jokes. I liked his humor, but humor is subjective and some readers may not like it. There were a few surprises along the way. Some parts were a little slow, but the
I didn’t want to stop reading.It’s a long book.
I had a hard time putting it down.
The story continues in the sequel “The Lion.”Asad was a well done bad guy.
So why are they walking outside alone with no bullet proof vests or other protection?NARRATOR:Scott Brick did an excellent job as John Corey because Scott does cocky arrogance well.
John Corey’s arrogance was written in an entertaining way so it worked.
Scott narrated females nicely here.DATA:Narrative mode: 1st person John Corey, 3rd person other characters and scenes.
In this book, John Corey has joined at elite task force comprised of FBI, CIA, ex-NYPD, current NYPD some lawyers, accountants, and whoever else they could think of to throw into the mix.
Now John and his team are forced to chase a crazy terrorist around the US to stop him before he completes his mission.Unlike in Plum Island, there was no lag to the beginning of this book.
It just jumps right in, and I think this might have been the best beginning to a book that I have read in a long time.
If I were to go back and highlight each time Mr. Demille's writing made me laugh, the book would look like a freshmen year chemistry book.The Lion's Game is the squeal to Plumb Island, which was also a joy to read specifically because John Corey was the main character in that book as well.
I found myself reflecting on typical American circumstances in a whole new light due to the antagonist's interesting point-of-view as a foreigner traveling across the country.The Lion's Game was a lot of fun to read, not merely for the humor, but also because Nelson Demille can dish out so much more than your typical crime novel.
What sorted out this thriller from others of its heft is the dedication of the author to assiduously make every sentence count.
I don't want to spoil, so let us say that such and such gal doesn't die even after the hero proposes something to her.
One thing I noticed was that when Arabic or Latin words were cited and quoted, they were in italics, but French words were not.
Also, shooting a bullet through an empty plastic bottle doesn't a silencer make.
Hell, even real silencers aren't sound proof.
This book has renewed my interest in thrillers and in this very series.
I finished this pre-9/11 story of a dogged NYPD cop on the trail of a Libyan terrorist, and definitely had moments of frustration as DeMille paused to observe the scenery, sit in on a bureaucratic meeting, or watch cops shag.The protagonist, John Corey, is a likable enough example of the species, but I found his wisecracking dialogue creaky (downright colorless when compared to, say Elmore Leonard, but then...).
Lion's Game had it's hair raising moments, but it took a lot of meetings to get there.In other words, cut to the chase.
Of course, I also expected Kate to back out, especially after events in California.The StoryJohn is missing the action of law enforcement, of making a difference, and Dom has come up with a way for John to become involved again.
Even worse, Ted Nash and George Foster requested him!When a major terrorist incident occurs, it's John's insight, street smarts, and stubborn determination that sets the ATTF on the right path.The CharactersJohn Corey had taken a three-quarter disability and a professorship at John Jay College of Criminal Justice after 
The second book in the John Corey series. Well written, witty with edge of your seat suspense. Next, I will read book one, Plum Island to get the full back story of the protagonist.
3/5. Not my cup of tea.
I’ve read the reviews for The Lion’s Game and from all indications this book was really good.
So venturing into The Lion, I had a lot of expectations; after all, it is the sequel to The Lion’s Game.
If this had been done then the story would have come in at 10 or maybe 11 CD’s maximum.Additionally, though I love suspense thrillers, I just didn't quite feel this one.
I couldn’t relate to them even in their direst of situations.I acknowledge that Nelson DeMille is a pretty good writer and he writes in one of my favourite genres but The Lion just wasn’t what I had expected.
I preferred the mystery-style story of Plum Island to this book.
I did not like the way the POV of Lion's Game bounces back and forth between first person limited (Carey's investigation) and third person limited (the terrorist's plot as it unfolds.) Carey's still a great character and his chapters are excellent.
However compared to the mystery of Plum Island, The Lion's Game (a thriller, through and through) doesn't stand up quite as tall.
It's a good book, but not what I was hoping for as the follow up to Plum Island.
Another solid Demille read! I thought the premise in this one was very different from Plum Island, this one was about terrorism, and Plum Island had nothing to do with that. The book was really lengthy but it kept me on the edge of my seat up until the end. John Corey's character is still pretty much the same, cocky, sarcastic, and has a lack for authority. I can't wait to start book #3!
وكأن الدار تعتبر أن حذف الترجمة تحافظ على شعور القارئ.يبدو لي بعد قرأتي للنسخة العربية من هذه الرواية، أن البلاد العربية لم تعد بحاجة لما يسمى مراقبة المطبوعات، فقد باتت دور النشر والترجمة تقوم بحذف ما يتعارض مع أفكارها وسياستها..
لأن بعضها غير مؤكد أن مكان لكلمة أو كلمات أو فقرة محذوفة.وكان من الأجدر على من قام بترجمة ونشر هذه الرواية، احترام من سيقرأها على الأقل بذكر ما يلي في مقدمة الكتاب:عزيزي القارئ، بما أننا على ثقة كبيرة بوعيك وثقافتك، نرجو منك ملء الفراغات في هذه الرواية بما يناسبه من كلمات..
الجنسية،ص104 على أن تسلك الطريق الأطول إلى...
(اعتقد هنا أنه تم حذف فقرة كاملة).ص136 الغارة الجوية على...ص143 هذا هو مدخل الطريق السريع...ص260 وكانت...
But 10 chapters down that book, John Corey was a really annoying character.
Also, while Plum Island was a first person narrative, I expected this book to be the same as first chapter started and he gave a mini flashback to the Plum Island case, good, it made the book standalone, even if one hasn't read Plum Island.
John Corey is a very casual guy who has zero fucks to give to anyone but the "Ladies" and condescends everyone, which makes those first person narrative chapter little repetitive.
Acompanhamos, por um lado, a visão de John Corey dos acontecimentos e, por outro lado, a visão de Asad Khalil da sua missão nos EUA.
Mas senti-me um pouco defraudada, pela forma repentina como a obra acaba após a última tentativa de Asad Khalil matar John Corey e Kate Mayfield e a recuperação dos ferimentos no hospital.
Não sabemos nada do paradeiro de Asad Khalil, que desapareceu no ar, e assistimos ao casamento de John Corey com Kate Mayfield, que era sua colega da brigada, pertencente ao FBI.
The book was a real page-turner, and I liked how it turned the normal murder/mystery on its head (i.e. we as the reader knew very early on who the killer was, and what his motives were, and the bulk of the story was watching John Corey attempt to figure it out).
As a side note, I found it pretty ominous/prescient that the book was written in 2000, one year before the events of 9/11.
DeMille uses the device of telling two separate stories, which don't intersect until near the end of the book.
In the end, it still seems a sort of unnatural pairing -- like peanut butter and pickles -- but I would say yes, it works, primarily because each of the tales is so highly engaging in its own way.I learned from this book a great old proverb: "Man plans, God laughs." Also, I liked this new twist on an old standard: "when the turds hit the turbines."A thoroughly enjoyable read.
Our hero in tracking Khalil on his Jhihad through America is the wise-cracking John Corey, the Irish ex-NYPD detective introduced in the prior novel, "Plum Island".
Tough, but good hearted, he has street smarts and an affinity for direct action that leaves his bureaucratic FBI and nefarious CIA team members far behind in his quest.
But he manages to snare the respect and love interest of FBI agent Kate Mayfield, who becomes an effective partner and foil to his impulsive person.
Having John's story in first-person and Khalil's in third-person is a challenge that DeMille handles well.
These are more than seven hundred pages of unending adventure, mystery and humour! John Corey reappears larger than life, with all his chauvinism but also his witty way of solving in truly detective way the case of Asad Khalil! This first appearance of Kate Mayfield, also establishes her strong personality and sense of humour.Loved this book, which is already the third John Corey I read,and I intend to read other John Crey adventures...Maria Carmo,Lisbon 30 December 2014.
Team John Corey and a Libyan terrorist, and you have a fast paced thriller. Plus John gets a girlfriend in this book! Good, good, good! DeMille must really do his homework
The main character, John Corey, and his team are working to track down the terrorist and a myriad of issues pop up.
I’m not reinventing the wheel here, people obviously love this book, but I didn’t.
I didn’t have an issue staying engaged and read it faster than I usually read, in part because I was interested in seeing what happens at the end, but I didn’t love it.
The story is fast, but the plot is long and overly detailed, with an odd love story mixed in.
I did not read Plum Island (John Corey #1) before reading this one.
I seem to have been reading it forever and yet I'm still only 30% through.
OK, I know we're reading fiction here and there is always an unrealistic element.
But the idea that nobody is unduly worried that a plane travelling through some of the busiest airspace in the world, with no radio contact for 2 hours and with a terrorist prisoner on board is laughable.
So is the thought that after it lands, only emergency rescue services go out to meet it, one person only goes on board and then fails to communicate that all the passengers are dead.
I chanced upon John Corey, the character in DeMille’s main series, in the 2017 collection of short mysteries entitled Matchup.
His basic humanity, in part veiled byand in part revealed by his wisecracking attitude, his anti-PC attitude, and lightning quick mind struck chords with me.
So, I read the first book of the series, Plum Island.
That sold me and I then read straight through all of the books in the series.The Lion's Game (Corey Book 2).
Maybe even better than the first Corey book.
This book has the best beginning of any fiction that I can recall.
Corey is absolutely perfect as the take-charge-and-do-something guy you want him to be.
DeMille's Book #2 finds former NYPD detective John Corey on an anti terrorist task force. The task force's mission seems pretty standard, escort a well known Libyan terrorist who is defecting to the west. But John will soon learn that this mission is anything but simple and will lead him on a cross-country search for the terrorist. I really like the John Corey novels. John is an old school cop who is on the ball and so far the two books I've read in the series have had great plots. Looking forward to book #3!
Could be a great read but it's a very slow and sluggish read. After 10+ hours into the 24+ your long read I was exhausted. sorry Mr. DeMille, just couldn't finish it.Definitely no as interesting as Plum Island.
