https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34494.The_Wee_Free_Men
I love all of Pratchett's books.
I wish I could give a copy of this book for every little girl in the world.
And even if they don't want to be like Tiffany, I want them to know that she exists.
I wish I could give a copy of this book to every little boy in the world, too.
And even if they don't want to be like her, I want them to know that she exists, that she is possible.
I wish I could read this book to my little boy.
And please don't be fooled that the action takes place on a flat planet traveling through space on the back of four elephants standing on a back of a giant space turtle - the issues he writes about are quite applicable to the lives of people on a giant blue-green ball hurtling through space while circling along the hot yellow Sun.In The Wee Free Men, nine-year-old Tiffany Aching, a budding witch in a country that does not take kindly to witchcraft, has her first encounters with the supernatural world of Discworld.
And too much young adult literature for girls makes girls lives seem like they are all about boys and spend too little time on the other important things.So of course, if you've read this book, you can imagine my joy at finding a story which is in the model of the best boy's literature but has as its protagonist - a girl.
If you haven't read, 'The Wee Free Men', the protagonist is young Tiffany Aching, shepherd girl and cheese maker, who you'll fall in love with by the end of the first chapter.
If you a looking for a way into his Discworld series (which is, at last count, 1 million books long), you could do worse.
I do laugh when I read funny blog posts or Goodreads reviews so I don't know what is going on.
Terry Pratchett deserves a better reader than me because this is a funny book.
And your son; he can read books with girls in them too.
This is clearly why the back of the book mentions Buffy the Vampire Slayer.I said this was YA, but aside from being light and easy to read, it is also well-considered and thoughtful and, yes, funny.

Le tengo cariño a casi todas las brujas, para qué mentir. Pero Tiff me ha robado el corazón.
There is no actual death or gore shown.There's an unsettling flashback of the Chalk people burning down the house of an elderly suspected witch and killing her cat.Sex: Tiffany's older sisters enjoy springtime on the farm because they get to watch the young men working with their shirts off.
She's equally baffled by her uncle's fondness for a chewing tobacco logo that features a nude female figure if you look at it from a certain angle.When Tiffany is declared temporary kelda (matriarch) of the local Feegles, she fears that she'll have to marry their chief, Rob Anybody (yes, that's his real name), as dictated by tradition.

The quality of the writing is much improved compared to some of the early books in the series, the location is new (The Chalk is an isolated corner of the flat world, concerned almost exclusively with sheep farming) and the lead character, Tiffany Aching makes her debut here.
In conclusion, Tiffany Aching turns out to be yet another young protagonist that I loved at first sight (like September in Catherynne Valente  The Girl Who...
or like the young kid from Neil Gaiman's  Ocean At The End of the Lane ) and I will look forward to the next Discworld books featuring her.
you'll still get beaten by people who spent their time working hard and learning things and weren't so lazy.”Pure Pratchett, an ageless story with universal appeal to both children and adults.
This is one of the most serious stories of Discworld, as Terry Pratchett knew perfectly well that if you write to and about children, you have to be serious, otherwise it won't work.I wish I could have been like Tiffany Aching as a child: unafraid with First Sight (to see what is really there) and Second Thoughts (thinking about what you are thinking) and lots of common sense.
4 stars.]You know when you finish a book and it gives you that warm fuzzy feeling and makes you smile-not too wide, not a stupid grin-just a lovely little expression you give yourself, as if you're remembering a joke or something nice that happened to you once?I live for books that give those moments."But that time it had been magic.
And it didn't stop being magic just because you found out how it was done."Tiffany Aching is nine years old, and whilst I think that's a tiny bit young to be believable-but then I don't know many nine year old girls, only stupid boys-she does have a good adult brain in her head, it's just the rest of her body needs to catch up.
I read the three published books straight through everywhere I went, and I know I disturbed people by standing there beaming in the elevator.
People die in these books, and children are faced with truths they shouldn't be, but it's all still fundamentally hopeful.
But the thing I like the most is the magic.
There is magic, you see, but that's not really what witching is about.
So many fantasy books use magic as a shorthand for power – these books are about how they overlap, yes, but how they really aren't the same thing at all.
This was a book club read.
I hadn't read anything by Terry Pratchett before and the novel certainly wasn't a genre that I've read a lot in.
I felt at heart that it was an adventure, a story of the "little guy" taking on the "big bad meanie" and triumphing against overwhelming odds.
It's a theme that I often look for in the novels I read.
In this case it was a nine year old girl called Tiffany Aching.The characters overall were well presented, it was the little brother William who I found to be overly irritating though.
I think that my favourite character overall was Miss Tick.
She is so earnest, never surprised by the oddest things - wee free men popping up, witches and monsters appearing, the world needing to be saved…she takes all that in her stride.
She questions things other people, even adults, take on face value, and she THINKS.
And someone has to speak up for them as has no voices."And she takes that responsibility seriously: “Another world is colliding with this one,” said the toad.
All the monsters are coming back.”“Why?”“There’s no one to stop them.”There was silence for a moment.“There’s me,” said Tiffany.
Right?"This caused a cheer."Ach, 'tis a good plan," said Daft Wullie.”
No worries…I’ll wait until you come back from the paper shop*.Back?Right:Hermione Granger + Mildred Hubble + Matilda Wormwood = Tiffany Aching.I’m almost tempted to just leave this review at that because, honestly, if you’re not intrigued by that equation then I can’t recommend this book to you.
If you’ve read Discworld books before, you might get more of the jokes that have gone over my head but I honestly don’t think you’d need to have read any of them to get this story.Actually, these books may be a great place to start.Sir Pratchett gives you just enough details about the setting to make sure you don’t get lost and I love that about him.
Ένα απο τα πιο διασκεδαστικά βιβλία που έχω διαβάσει.Απολαυστικό,γεμάτο χιούμορ και έξυπνες ατάκες.Γέλασα με τα κατορθώματα των Νακ Μακ Φιγκλ και αγάπησα την Τίφανι που κατατροπώνει τέρατα με το τηγάνι της και το μυαλό της.Θα το πρότεινα σε όσους έχουν παιδιά γιατί είναι ένα απο τα καλύτερα βιβλία του είδους που έχω διαβάσει αλλά είδα δυστυχώς οτι είναι εξαντλημένο.
Tiffany is – as of this book – the current recipient of the newly-minted The Book Smugglers Award for Best Witch-To-Be on account of her perspicacity, courage, love for words, pride on her cheese-making skills as well as the ability to stand impervious and mostly unaffected by condescending adults, evil Queens, talking frogs and diminutive and outrageous, thievery blue men in kilts (otherwise known as Nac Mac Feegle or Pictsies [not to be confused with Pixies, if you please] or the Wee Free Men).This is the plot and Tiffany’s personality in a nutshell: ”Another world is colliding with this one,” said the toad.
Following the resounding success of my Locus Quest, I faced a dilemma: which reading list to follow it up with? Variety is the spice of life, so I’ve decided to diversify and pursue six different lists simultaneously. This book falls into my LOCUS Y-A list.I think I’ll always have a soft-spot for imaginative young-adult speculative fiction and as the good people at Locus did such a grand job with picking their Sci-Fi winners, I’ll trust them to single out some special y-a books too.A toast from
An he give us all some licker, in silver thimbles too, like a real, right polite nob.We Nac Mac Feegle ain’t known for our way with words – unless them words be fighting, stealing and drinking – but there are two ver’rae important words the kelda made me promise to remember if anyone ever asked about this book tha’ bigjob Terry has writ about our very own hag of the hills.
Yes, I know, I’m dumber that Daft Wullie – no need to point it out.When I finished my Locus Sci-Fi quest and decided to spread my wings, I took the Locus YA award into the fold.
The Wee Free Men is the first book in the Tiffany Aching subseries of Discworld.
Calling it “young adult” might be a stretch since the protagonist is nine and I thought the story seemed suitable for a younger audience.
On the other hand, as with many children protagonists, she probably behaved as if she were older than a typical nine-year-old.
Tiffany, whose late grandmother was possibly a witch, seems to have some skills in that area herself.
Fortunately, she does have a ‘little’ help in the meantime.Tiffany Aching is a good character, easy to sympathize with and root for.
The style was actually quite similar to that of Neil Gaiman's books and so unsurprisingly I had the same issues.
The story itself was too ridiculous to take seriously and I felt like the characters were just inconsequential mouthpieces for the author to crack some jokes and offer a few witty insights on society.
Rating: 2.5 starsAudio Note: Stephen Briggs is a competent narrator who did a good job with the various voices and accents.
That said, I was not a giant fan of the audio version as I've never been a fan of regional British accents.
Pueden leer esta y otras reseñas en mi blog:  click aquí Los Pequeños Hombres Libres es el primer libro de la saga juvenil de Mundodisco protagonizada por Tiffany Dolorido, una niña de nueve años que desea convertirse en bruja. Uno pensaría que aspirar a ser bruja no es un objetivo muy noble, pero como sucede con muchas cosas del universo de Pratchett, las brujas no son malas, sino que son incomprendidas por usar el sentido común. Desde el momento en que es presentada, Tiffany demuestra ser una
Considero que Los pequeños hombres libres puede ser una excelente novela para conocer Mundodisco, pues es más ligera que otros libros de la saga y porque puede leerse intercalada con la saga de las brujas (puedes consultar cuáles son los libros de las brujas en la sección Mundodisco).
Como complemento de este libro, recomiendo leer Ritos Iguales porque en él aparecen las demás brujas que enseñarán a Tiffany el oficio y además porque explica la magia tan particular que hacen las brujas: una magia basada en la "cabezología", básicamente usar el sentido común y la perspicacia para explicar cosas que la gente normal pasa por alto.
Che indicibile tenerezza!
I started just this week and am already to page 158, which is pretty fast reading for me.The story of young witch-in-the-making Tiffany Aching and her allies, the Nac Mac Feegle (otherwise known as “The Wee Free Men” – think 6 inch high tattooed blue guys who could give the Fremen of Arrakis a run for their money in a fight) and her familiar on loan, a toad who seems to have been a lawyer who helped folks find grounds to sue in a previous life, and their quest to rescue Tiffany’s bothersome little brother from the Queen of Fairyland has been quite entertaining so far, and I’m looking forward to finishing it and checking out some of the other books in the series.
This book is a nice, self-contained story about a young girl, Tiffany Aching, who lives out in the countryside in Pratchett's fantasy world, the Discworld.
Tiffany Aching is intensely curious and loves to both think and question everything around her, including the simple fairy stories she has been told.
She decides that she wants to be in a fairy tale, but that she wants to be the witch rather than the vapid princess.But even as Tiffany is coming to her own conclusions, she is forced to step up and take action.
When her rather unloveable baby brother is taken by the Fairy Queen, Tiffany decides to fight back.
In the same way I wanted to be Jo March when I first read Little Women, I can imagine any girl selecting Tiffany as a role model.Pratchett never writes down to his reader; instead, he seems fascinated by the world he's created, and that fascination comes through to the reader.
He loves his characters, and renders them with precision and care.
He has created a number of strong females in this book, and lord knows we need more of those in kids' lit.
That's the kind of person I am!"I don't know about you, but Tiffany's just the sort of girl I wanted to be.
This was marketed as a Discworld novel for 'younger readers,' but Ifound the story and style to be no more (or less) juvenile than thatof any of Pratchett's other books.
It's lucky that Tiffany isthe granddaughter of a witch, and definitely has inherited the talentto realize her aspirations of becoming one herself.
Also on her side,somewhat mysteriously, she seems to have a horde of miniature Scotmen- the Nac Mac Feegle.
The tribe of the Nac Mac Feegle (troublemakingPictsies!) are definitely one of his best inventions.

And cheese is awesome.I have to say, with a world as vast as Discworld, it was really important for me to pick the right book to start.
One, it's young adult, two, it's narrow enough to focus the world building on one character, and three, Tiffany Aching is flipping awesome.
She's able to see the world as is, and think about it afterwards--First Sight and Second Thoughts--but she's also learned that reality and imagination will always be connected, and both are shaped by the individual: her.I also loved the Nac Mac Feegle and their flyaway bits of wisdom, especially about magic.
I love love love Terry Pratchett, but I had never picked up his YA series.
=(As always, Terry Pratchett wrote amazing characters.
I wish I had this book growing up but at least I can gift a copy to my nieces when they're older.
The man was a master with characters you're able to connect with and layering deep meaning into their experiences.I didn't especially latch onto the story when it became the showdown with the Queen.
I'm not sure really what I was expecting, and after lauding Pratchett's characters, I might have to say the Queen felt a tad weak.
Previously a 4 star but upped it on a reread due to realising its true brilliance. Nac Mac feegle are a great concept and so well done. All around great fun .And Tiffany is just great. A confident and hard working young girl who does difficult things because someone has to. Inspirational and a much better book role model than a lot of the simpering lovelorn idiots peppered throughout YA fiction. Show Tiffany a glittery vampire she will most likely knock it out cold with her trusty frying pan before heading home to make butter. Truly much more inspirational .
