https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1813548.Temptation
This was my introduction to Victoria Christopher Murray. When I read the back blurb, I said NO WAY! When I read the book, I was so caught up in the story, that I actually thought I was watching a movie and this is where we all met Jasmine. This is an amazing book and will remain one of my top ten books that I will always re read.
Alexis Ward a good friend of Kyla looks at them as role models and searches for guidance in her own love life.
Although Jefferson and Kyla relationship is admired by many, Jasmine is envious of Kyla happy marriage.
Alex has made a vow to God to stay celibate until marriage but Brian is starting to make it harder for her.
Alex is doing her best to stay committed but she is having a hard time meaning what she ways.After Jefferson betrays his wife in the most awful way, Kyla must decide if she is willing to give him another chance.
#1The 1st book in this series laid the foundation of Jasmine's evil ways, thought processes, & distorted views. Her jealous ways made her a very unlikable character. I thought Kayla was a true Christian to ever associate with Jasmine for so long. The content was what the title implied. The storyline had good build-up, held my attention throughout & has me ready to read the next book.
Three ladies, Two friends and the ultimate betrayal!!!!!!Kyla Blake has it all.
After divorcing her husband she has been lonely every since.Trying to fill a void of being alone she has turned to married men but that doesn't stop the lust she has for best friend husband.Alexis Ward is the perfect example of waiting on God. Saving herself for marriage has ran plenty of men away but when she meets Dr.Brian Lewis she is scared of the new challenge she will face.This story is all about forgiveness trust and depending on the Lord.The characters will have you in a ball of emotions.
This christian fiction book addressed the infidelity issue and the never ending struggle to successfully hold a marriage and relationship together based on Godly principles. The author presents the importance of forgiveness to those who damage relationships. Only God can fix whats broken.
I'm curious to see how the series of Jasmine progresses since this is technically book one.
I haven't read any christian fiction in a long time so this reminded me why I like it so much.
You get a good story and have characters that know the Word.
However, for me this story was just alright.
The temptation happened pretty early on.
There wasn't much buildup at all so I feel that that took away a lot from the story.
Then it proceeded to drag of course and not much happened after that which left me a little bored.
I had only one issue with the book and that was that technically no one really gave her time to grieve, everyone was all about her immediate forgiveness....and catching your best friend in your naked in your bed, your bedroom reeking of sex and your husband in the shower....
Having been in that situation (different scenario) I am pretty sure neither of them I would consider my friend (even the good one) as I would expect my friend to comfort me....listen to me..let me scream, grieve and freak out.....and I do not think just because you are a christian that reigning down bible verses to shame someone into a faster forgiveness would work.
I went to a book signing at a local library with this author and nearly everyone in attendance was raving about the Jasmine Series.
I adore the love between Kyla and Jefferson, the dynamic leading couple.
After a one-time affair with Kyla's best friend, Jasmine, Jefferson will do anything to regain the stability and trust that was once the basis of his marriage.
Jasmine really had me questioning her sanity!
More than just scheming and conniving, her mental stability was a little off-kilter at some points.
The budding romance between Brian and Alexis, best friends to Kyla and Jefferson, was also a nice addition.
This story rocked!
It drew me in to the drama from page one.
Even though I have plenty of other books to read I kept wanting to read this one.
The characterization is fabulous and the emotion is deep.
The marital stuff is very well done and the temptation is believable.
I particularly enjoyed the spiritual element of this novel.
It was very detailed and comprehensive, yet it perfectly fit the story without feeling like a sermon.
There were some POV issues, but the realistic and emotional depth in this story made up for the small stuff.
Temptation is a story of love, faith, friendship, and forgiveness in spite of mistakes that a person may make through the course of their life.
Temptation tells the story of Kyla and Jefferson and their picture-perfect marriage and their commitment to one another and also to God.Through bible scriptures and words of love and faith, Murray writes this book in a way that will make you re-evaluate your life and your relationships with others and also with your inner spirit.
This is a definite read for anyone who's ever faced temptation or one who has been placed in a situation in which someone else needed your forgiveness.I recommend you add this book to your list of books to read
Every woman married or not should read this book. Awesome, God sent!
Very good Christian Fiction book.
Temptation is book #2 in Murray's Lady Jasmine series.
Kyla and Jefferson are happily married.
It is a rollercoaster with the most tragic of them all being the relationship between the two best friends- Kyla and Jasmine.
Kyla is the God-fearing wife and mother whose only problem until the affair was her and Jefferson disagreeing on Kyla returning to work full-time.
Jefferson question why Kyla couldn't be happy with being a wife and mother.
In fact, his words were "was being a wife and mother not enough"?
After the affair, Kyla would be asking him the same question.
This sets up the rest of the book as discussions of love, relationships, and true forgiveness.
The story is fast-paced without glossing over the hard-to-talk-about affair and how a couple forgives and rebuilds as they recommit to their marriage.
There are parallel lines as another set of friends begins to fall in love into a serious relationship.
This is a sweet tale of temptation, remorse, and forgiveness that I would highly recommend for anyone contemplating a more serious relationship or anyone who has experienced the heartbreak of infidelity and wishes to rebuild their relationship.
Victoria Christopher Murray always tells a great story and Temptation is no exception.
She writes about situations to which we can all relate.
But she also let's us know that there is no problem too large, or any situation so "hopeless" for God to handle.
Kyla and Jefferson have a sixteen year marriage that is the envy of many.
Only their love of God is greater than their love fore each other.
But when the love they share, and the harmony surrounding their relationship is shattered, will their love for each other and their faith in God allow them to weather this storm?
I really enjoyed this book. It was a book about true forgiveness. I’ve always considered myself as someone who easily forgives. However, before I got married I told my soon to be husband that cheating is a deal breaker! There’s no coming back from that type of hurt. To watch Kyla deal with the struggle of forgiveness was so real and raw. I closed the page on this book asking myself could I be as strong as Kyla?
I have long loved Victoria Christopher Murray's body of work. So I decided to go back in time and read her very first novel, Temptation. Wow!! The entire time I'm reading this book I keep marveling at the fact that this was her FIRST book. Her plot and character development is so on point. I totally enjoyed this book and now on to the next one. I've got to see how Jasmine becomes such a b!&c# after her repentance in this novel.
If you have read any of Victoria Christopher Murray books you would know that Jasmine is a full deck to deal with. With a friend like Jasmine you really don't need any enemies. Definitely a page turner because you really want to know how it turns out with the ultimate betrayal.
EnjoyedMy heart went out to Kayla. She was stronger than most women because I would be in divorce court. Sometimes it's not easy to forgive such a sin. This is a story that should be read by you. Great job Ms Murray. God Bless You.
Never let another woman stay with your manI love this story, but I find it hard to believe that Kayla was clueless to Jasmine. A friend envy and jealous, will always turn to hate and resentment. Faith is a strong foundation
3.5 Stars!
I enjoyed this book. It is timeless in its ability to relate to life circumstances over the years and not just at the time it was written.
Could not put it down.
AwesomeI love Victoria Christopher Murray books. She is a prolific writer. Her books come to life for each and every reader.
OMGDefinitely brought up old feelings of betrayal, but this book also helped me understand temptation and it’s power. I couldn’t have read it at a better time.
Awesome read.This book was an awesome read about Love, hurt and leaning on God's love and understanding. God can fix it.
This was truly a bible study lesson & showcased how the bible can be used to badger you into being compliant.Random observations6/16/18-In this installment it's been 18 years since Scandalous, Jasmine is in her 40s and I have no idea who she is...She has done a complete 180 from the person who was presented in Scandalous.
She made several naive statements i.e. if he loved me he couldn't be in bed with another woman.
I think any woman in her 40s knows that sex and love are not dependent on each other.
There is forgiveness and then there was this story.
I'm not sure how I missed this novel but it was really good!
How could as friend you've known over 30 years betray your friendship like this?
I really felt sorry for Kyla and knew that if not for God it would have turned out so bad but through God and His grace and mercy things turned out okay.
Yes, we are all human and subject to error but some things just shouldn't be.
Great first novel Victoria, glad I stumbled upon it, now on to "Joy".
Their marriage is full of love, stability, and most importantly God. Their faith in God and their marriage is insurmountable.
But even Christians encounter temptation...Where will Kyla & Jefferson place God in their lives when temptation strikes?~~~~~~~The situations and characters in this novel are both heart wrenching and heart warming.
Temptation is an intoxicating story of awareness, faith, friendship, vows, and love.
You'll stay up all night with Kyla and Jefferson praying with them that God delivers them from the pain and storms that thunder in their lives.~~~~~~~Victoria's masterful storytelling maintains your interest and evokes your emotions, while enlightening where you place your faith.
Kyla and Jefferson Blake count their sixteen years together as a wonderful blessing from God. Kyla knows that her newly divorced and lifelong friend, Jasmine, is desperately unhappy and no amount of prayer and encouragement seems to help.
Yet, what Kyla doesn't know is that Jasmine has a plan to move forward with her life with the type of man she feels she should have married in the first place...a man like Jefferson.
Alexis Ward is another of Kyla's friends, who is single and successful and willing to wait for the right man for all the right reasons.
