https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35100.Battle_Cry_of_Freedom

That is, 3 weeks of contemplating reading it and proceeding to finish it in 3 days.
This book is undoubtedly the best 1-volume book on the war that divided and reunited America but ended some of our back-then traditions such as slavery.
It starts off at the end of the Mexican-American War and does so for the first 100 pages.
There are always other books on the subject that go in depth on different aspects such as the battles or the figures, but if you want a general overview of the Civil War from its origins to its aftermath, this is THE book!
It is reported that there are 15,000 books on the Civil War in the Library of Congress, so the natural question is where do you start?
Furthermore, Most of the "seminal" Civil War works are volumes and thousands of pages.
Well in 850 pages, McPherson provides succint, yet thorough historical writing of the highest caliber.
Perhaps the most remarkable piece of the book was the eiplogue in which McPherson presents an interesting point about America's notions of liberty and freedom.
But if you want an all encompassing volume, linking the battles, economic issues, social life, culture, and politics, then this book will be a wonderful resource.Where does the title of the book come from?
Illustrative lines: "The Union forever, Hurrah boys Hurrah!Down with the traitor and up with the star; While we rally round the flag boys,rally once again, Shouting the battle cry of freedom."McPherson addresses the purpose of this volume (Page ix): ".
But McPherson notes that this ignores demographic realities and that, in fact, there was greater representativeness among the Union military than has often been noted.All in all, an impressive work, integrating the many aspects of the Civil War in just one volume, with 862 pages of text.
159)A Democratic float in a New York parade carried life-size effigies of Horace Greeley and a “good looking nigger wench, whom he caressed with all the affection of a true Republican.” A banner proclaimed that “free love and free niggers will certainly elect Old Abe.” (p.224)And of course Frederick Douglass’ fame recommended him to white imagination as a spectre of Black Sexual Menace.
The gradual polarization of opinion…the slow gathering of anti-slavery (or at least anti-slaveholder) sentiment…the revolutionary emergence of the Republicans and the election of Lincoln in 1860…the south’s counter-revolutionary breakaway…a war to restore the Old Union becoming a war to destroy the Old South.
That question too will probably never cease to be debated--but in 1865 few Black people and not many northerners doubted the answer."This is year 3 of United Nations International Decade for People of African DescentOh hey, look what I found: https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/w...If ever there was a one volume history as comprehensive on anything--this is it!
If you are trying to understand why United States of America is the way it is right now you must know the history of the Civil War and Reconstruction.
Battle Cry of Freedom has been touted as the best SINGLE volume account of the Civil War. I have read Shelby Foote's magnum three-book, 3,500 page opus, found that to be an amazing experience and one that kept me engrossed for over a year.
I still like Foote's trilogy better, but I agree wholeheartedly that for a single volume account, this one is pretty comprehensive and well-written.
So if you are looking for a wonderful account of the Civil War, and you are intimidated by reading a 3,500 page narrative, then McPherson's book is probably the way to go.
Widely acclaimed as the best single-volume history of the Civil War around, this is another entry in the Oxford History of the United States, which I am enjoying immensely.
The Civil War is the most-written about period in American history simply because there's so much history in it, as it did more to turn a bunch of squabbling states into the United States than anything since 1789.
You can't really be interested in this greatest of all American wars if you're not fascinated by the senseless, bloody, magnificent meetings between two of the mightiest armies of the 19th century, and McPherson seemingly covers every cavalry raid and clash of picket lines.
This is so much the case that it is arguable that McPherson did not so much write a historical account as piece together as produce a series of quotations from eye-witnesses and those who lived through events and has interspersed them with a linking narrative and his own biased comments.
The book is rather like a printed version of popular tv histories where dramatic footage is interspersed with aging eye witnesses making their truncated and edited comments on past events.
But McPherson who is always more understanding of Northern outrages than Southern ones-finds what he calls “considerable provocation” for Butler’s declaration.
It begins with the Mexican-American War because that is where much of the Civil War's military leadership is forged.
One other thing: I find that in discussions about the Civil War (still referred to in much of the South as "the war between the states"), though it is long past, it isn't over.
Though nobody is entirely objective, McPherson is widely recognized as the go-to expert in this field.
Furthermore, his bias is on the side of the angels, to my way of thinking.When I taught in this field, I kept two copies of this book, the glorious illustrated version shown here at home, and my beloved old paperback copy full of highlighted passages and sticky notes on my desk in the classroom.
And with an unbelievably good first 300 pages about the politics that made war inevitable, and which includes evidence that demolishes the idea that some unsullied struggle for "states' rights" was what spawned the secession.All I can think about now is who would play Grant in the movie, and how much of a dick McClellan was, and how incredibly lucky we were that Sherman took Atlanta in time, and all the little amazing bits about how the South wanted to conquer Cuba or how the Crater exploded and all those men charged straight into a smoldering hole in the planet, or Bleeding Kansas or John Brown awaiting execution and feeling sanctified.
His, and his country's, thinking would evolve from taking a hands-off opinion about slavery in the summer of 1861, to making emancipation of slaves in the belligerent southern states a war policy a year later, to calling for a "new birth of freedom", with Constitutional protection, in the Gettysburg Address of November 1863.The bulk of this book, occurring from slightly before page 300, involves the events of the Civil War. This section is a definitive one-volume history of the war.
As other reviewers have noted, this magnificent book is almost certainly the best single-volume history of the American Civil War. It is hard to imagine that there will ever be another to match it.Here is the way that I have heard the question: "I think I might be interested in learning something about the Civil War. If I wanted to read one book and find out for sure, what should I get?" The simple, unequivocal answer to that question is "Battle Cry of Freedom".James McPherson is, for me, one of the truly great writers in any genre.
The increasing weight of a growing North was impossible for the Southern planter class to defeat, either in Congress or - it turned out - on the battlefield.Or more precisely, the South could win battles, but it was strategically virtually doomed to lose.
Again, McPherson shows how the South could perhaps have "won" the war had the Lincoln been defeated for re-election.
But they did know they couldn't win in congress, because the north's growth outnumbered the South's.
The North's abolition movement was winning the political battle.
The South's politics suck - still re-fighting that war.
If you are looking for a comprehensive survey of the cultural, political, economic, and social landscape of the period, the nature of which all fed into the ultimate decision by the South to try and leave the union, this is the book you should read.The Civil War revolved around the issue of slavery.
The decision made by our founders to “kick the can down the road” and not deal with slavery in the Constitution, along with changing gender roles, increasing religious fervor, a bifurcation in the economic systems of the North and South, and ultimately the struggle over expansion of the slave power into the west culminated in this greatest tragedy of our history.All of this is expertly dealt with by McPherson in a smooth, very readable way.
Disparate economies pave the road to war as the North takes off with the transportation and industrial revolutions and the South remains a stagnant agrarian society dependent on slavery.
The progressive unionist attitude of the North vs.
the conservative states-rights attitude of the South still persists as the Tea Party and liberals continue the fight, hopefully without a war.McPherson characterizes this disparity of views in his afterword in terms of Isaiah Berlin’s “Negative Liberty” and “Positive Liberty”.
Positive Liberty means the intervention of government to ensure that the rights of everyone are protected.
However, the obvious truth is that part of the South's definition of liberty is the right to own slaves, and that was the right for which they were going to break apart the Union and go to war to defend.McPherson's narrative begins at the end of the Mexican-American War, where the nation is debating on what to do with the newly acquired territory and the slave issue moves to front and center.
To McPherson, the only thing that Lincoln and the Republicans could do to satisfy the Southerners would be to disband and declare that slavery was a positive good.As the war begins the South has the good fortune to have great generals in their cause such as Robert E.
5 star. Will reread down the road. 🇺🇸🤙
I also found myself admiring even more so the fluidity of McPherson's presentation of the era and his ability to range from topic to topic in a way that never weakened my engagement with the text.Yet for all of the book's strengths and my increased admiration for them, I also saw flaws that I missed the first time through.
Though his decision is understandable in some respects, the absence of the considerable amount of Civil War historiography that has been published over the past three decades erodes its value and will continue to do so as time went along.Because of this, I finished McPherson's book with an appreciation both renewed and more tempered than before.
McPherson's book is a wonderful history of the Civil War. He begins by setting the scene describing what was happening politically, culturally, and socially in the United States before the war began.
Using this same wide scope he takes readers through the war years, through the end of the war, and Lincoln's death.
I remember reading that more Americans died in the Civil War than in all other American wars combined and now I know why.
Until I read this book, I did not know that Lincoln feared that he would not be elected to a second term as President and that members of his own party were against him.
This is a book I have long intended to read.
I have long had an affinity for books about the Civil War and biographies of Abraham Lincoln.
This book starts at the Mexican War in 1847.
Even though I knew the ultimate outcome of the war, even as late as 1864 with the number of successes the south accrued, I kept feeling that there was no way the north could ultimately prevail.
The taking of Atlanta and a series of victories came for the north in the nick of time to elect Lincoln for a second term.
I had the very good luck to attend a lecture by James McPherson at NCSU right as I was finishing up reading this book.
(Face it, any book that covers the entire Civil War in one volume, even if it is 850 pages long, is bound to have to leave out a lot.) I was constantly marveling at McPherson's ability to use language in such a way as to capture the essence of a scene or a battle in a way that is both concise and complete.
If someone were to ask me for a book that would explain the Civil War to them, I would recommend this one.
I was left longing for coverage of other aspects of the war—what women were doing; the social impact; more things from an African-American perspective—but McPherson clearly set out to write the political and military history of the war, and in that he succeeds triumphantly.
It's clearly a work of synthesis—my impression was that the majority even of his quotes from primary sources came from other secondary sources—but McPherson seems to have weighed them all well, and he gives arguments, ideologies and actions from both North and South their due.
I have always been interested in the Civil War. So when this book was described as "one of the best one-volume histories of the Civil War", I set out at once to read it.
It won the Pulitzer Prize for History and deservedly so.
He takes a history we all know at least some details of and keeps you reading.
It is long, but omits very little.NOt only miltary details are given, but the political and social feelings of the era are not neglected.If perchance you are just starting to read Civil War history, this would be a VERY good starting volume.
McPherson appears to have written the best single-volume history of the Civil War. The 860 plus pages flow smoothly and chronologically with an abundance of interesting information. Throughout the North / South conflict the author reveals both the political atmosphere as well as the character of generals in a very impartial manner. The often hyped battles are relegated to their proper level of significance, while many other engagements that I was not as familiar with were appropriately referenced in detail.
probably the standard one-volume political history of the US civil war. lotsa good maps. is not a military history, however--and should be supplemented with something like How the North Won.
Southerners complained about a strong federal government, but praised that government when it made the Dred Scott ruling, which, was, duh, about slavery.Confederate Vice President Stephens plainly asserted in March 1861 that the “present revolution,” which had brought about the creation of the Confederate States of America, “is founded … on the great truth that the negro is not equal to the white man; that slavery — subordination to the superior race — is his natural and normal condition.
And northern popular sentiment was overwhelmingly anti-slavery, while southern sentiment was not.Issues regarding Ft. Sumter are readily determined by first reading the US Constitution that grants ownership of forts and related property to the Federal government as well as extraterritoriality.
This passes a little more lightly over the details of some individual battles than some of the bigger three volume works on the Civil War, but it is absolutely outstanding in its coverage of the lead up to war and the slave economy in the South which caused it. Its coverage of the overall strategic progress of the war is very good, as is its discussion of the evolution of Lincoln's and the North's attitude towards slavery during the course of the war. Strongly recommended.
Well I thought I knew the Civil War and I kinda did and I kinda didn't.
One of my favorite books ever !
