https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/613618.A_Spaniard_in_the_Works
Being a dyed-in-the-wool original Beatlemaniac (saw them twice in Houston on my 13th birthday in 1965, the day I died and went to heaven on a screaming cloud), I bought this book when it was published. My father read it, and although my parents were fairly lenient, my Dad got angry when he came across, "My Last Will and Testicle," shook the book at me and demanded to know, "Do you even know what a testicle is?!" Actually, I did not. He relented and let me keep the book.
I quite like John Lennon’s books, but they do get a little repetitive after a while. That’s because they’re basically just chock full of wordplay, nonsense poetry and odd little stories and sketches. It’s great to see inside his head of course, but I’m not sure they’re worth reading unless you’re a fan of his. Still, it’s quirky, which I like.
A little lady sing to me I couldn't see at all.
Such softly singing lulled me sleep, as hour or two or so I wakeny slow and took a peep and still no lady show.
Then suddy on a little twig I thought I see a sight, A tiny little tiny pig, that sing with all it's might.
I giggle, - well I may, To my surprise the lady, got up - and flew away.Good Dog Nigel Arf, arf, he goes, a merry sight, Our little hairy friend, Arf, arf, upon the lampost bright Arfking round the bend.
Same deal as "In His Own Write," but a little darker. Still thin absurdist prose-slinging. Tragic thing is, I really like absurdist comedy most of all. But I always feel bad laughing at it when no one else does, or putting it in front of people who don't think it's NEARLY as good as I do, or, worse yet, trying to be absurdistly funny myself and getting the same polite or uncomfortable reception.
One of the weirdests books I've read, but definitely the most amusing and funniest!! Lennon was sure an interesting person
I have not read In His Own Write yet, because I have not seen it in any stores.
I came across A Spaniard in the Works at a local used book store and just had to pick it up, being such a huge fan of The Beatles.
This is a very nonsensical book filled with jokes that I'm sure on Lennon and the other Beatles understood when it was written.
I would recommend it to any really big Beatles/Lennon fan.
I am looking forward to finding and reading a copy of In His Own Write.
It took me awhile to read this one mainly because you need a good concentration while reading this silly nonsense. It was definitely more mature this time around but still terribly funny. I nearly felt bad for laughing at the dark humour but I just couldn't help myself. It's pure John Lennon. 5/5 as always.
If John had written nothing else, this book would not have assured his immortality. But it still would have been a cult classic. I've always liked it, and it was a big early influence on my own thinking at a critical time of my childhood. I have two copies of the book, different editions. I keep them both behind glass. Honestly, I do.

I first read Lennon's books not long after his death.
(The book was impossible to find before that.
After his death -- lo and behold, it's everywhere) I was surprised and puzzled.
I’d never read anything like this.
Now that I’m a bit older (well, a lot older) I enjoy the nonsense of Carroll and Lear and Joyce.
The stories/poems have a sophomoric darkness.
Some are good like No Flies on Frank.
Most are just okay.
But there is a kernel of genius in them and I wonder what he might have done had he continued to write and really focused his attention.
I'd say "In His Own Write" was definitely better, but this is pretty good nonetheless. It might just be a personal preference but I liked that "In His Own Write" had a lot of quick and short poems and stories that didn't take long to read. Some of the stories in this book kind of dragged for me, and I think I like reading nonsense (which is all that both books are) in smaller quantities, but that might just be me.
In addition to John Lennon's obvious talents, he was a master of nonsense and whimsy. Unfortunately, this obligatory sequel to In His Own Write feels forced. The doggerel poetry is cute but the prose is just silly, even allowing for the fact that being silly is the whole point. For completists only.
A demented Lewis Carroll at times. Irreverent fun at others. And also unreadable nonsense. Not nearly as good as Lennon's first outing, but still contains a handful of selections that are worthwhile.
Very clever and witty. Full of nonsense. It's reminiscent of Lewis Carroll.
Very witty and crazy material. Not surprising at all giving John's intelligence and creative force.
More doggerel poetry from "the writing Beatle." Honestly, it was nothing special, but it was more interesting and engaging than the first one I had read, "In His Own Write." To paraphrase my review of that book, I had gotten both as a gift from someone who had read them in the time that they were released.
Knowing that writing of the time could be significantly better, and many authors who were having fun with poetry in the same way seemingly had more meaning, heft, charm, and better execution in their work.
However, I wonder if the whole collection of stories and poems is John just mocking what is considered "literary." Perhaps as a result of his fame as a musician, he could basically churn out whatever he wanted and people would eat it up, calling him the "intellectual" Beatle or saying that it's "deep," when really, he's just laughing his way to the bank.And yes, I deem this book absurd, ridiculous, and nonsensical, yet, it is somehow so amusing that I gave it 3 stars.
As much as I adored "In His Own Write," I was disappointed by this book.
"A Spaniard in the Works" is to "In His Own Write" as "Help!" is to "A Hard Day's Night." In both cases, the former seemed fresh and fun, while the follow-up seemed a little forced and not quite as delightful.
"In His Own Write" used lots of wordplay, and for his second book, Lennon seems to have decided that if a little creativity was good, then a lot of liberties taken with the language must be great.
Purchase this book only if you're a Lennon completist or the thought of padding Yoko's pocket$ makes you feel warm n' snuggly inside.
Otherwise, check amazon.com for the paperback "two-fer" edition.A SPANIARD IN THE WORKS is also notable for the cameo appearance it makes in the 1965 Beatles film "Help!" It's the book Lennon pulls from the bookshelf and kisses repeatedly in his hole-in-the-floor bedroom, as Paul plays a mad tune on the organ and an Arabian princess tries to bite off Ringo's finger to retrieve a sacrificial ring he was wearing.
A delightful collection of scribblings - poerty, short prose, cartoons -from a music legend.It's seriously weird in places, but wonderfully poignant in others.
Written by someone who likes playing with language.
In 'A Spaniard...' many of the best pieces are twisted children's tales - 'The Fat Budgie' or 'The Wumberlog (Or The Magic Dog)'.
It's here that he reins in his more experimental word-play.His messy fusion of words is great, a continual flow of neologisms jumping at you off the page.
Lines like "I find it recornered in my nosebook that it was a dokey and winnie dave towart the end of Marge..." make a lot more sense in context.Love it!!
I've heard many people talk about this book, it's even shown in the Beatle movie Help.
I've loved john Lennon since I was in first grade, but even though I liked this much more than In His own Write, I believe the song Across the universe is better than this book.
(even though that is my favorite Beatle song, but it's true).
This book is very corny and kind of meaningful, I enjoyed it very much.
I was just a little impressed with John, but I only recommend this book to those who truly want to read it.

Occasional flashes of brilliance, but a whole lotta gobbled-gook. Kevin Barry, in his novel Beatlebone, has a good take on the writing of Lennon that sums it up quite nicely: His prose writing flitters along the surface of things only, and it is funny and vivid and pacy, but it never slows or comes down through the gears sufficiently to allow moments of tenderness, sadness, love, anger, bitterness, or rancour, all the sweet and thorny emotions he routinely sprang in his brilliant and nerveless songwriting.
I blush to think how many years it took me to understand the title. We didn't have "spanners," not then, not there. I must have been the only one in the country, though: I never met anyone else who told me, "No, I was clueless, too."As for the book, like Tarantula, it would have sunk without a trace, had anyone else written it; but that doesn't mean it was without wit.
Here is another book, read sooooo long ago, I can no longer remember any detail to give this any sort of significant review. Too many years have rolled by, too few brain cells remaining, memory banks overdrawn. Tilt.Anyway, it's Lennon, so it's gear!
As in his first book, In His Own Write, Lennon gives us short stories, poems, drawings, etc. Some are witty and cute, others mysterious and sometimes dark, but all of the work within is pretty darn creative. Lovely.
A monument to rock-star self-indulgence and what happens when one finds one's self surrounded by yes-men. Same goes for "...Write", of course. Despite this, "Gimme Some Truth" still rocks like a motherfucker.
Another book I read purely because of my admiration for The Beatles and John Lennon in particular. I wish I could say it was a fascinating read and that I will read it again but sorry that is not the case.
As with In His Own Write, this is more interesting for who wrote it than for its contents. All the same, it's the work of an unschooled, immature poet [sigh, that should stir the pot] with a tart sense of humor. Highly recommended if you're out to learn all you can about John Lennon.
It's about as good as you would expect it to be
