https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6563.When_the_Wind_Blows
This is basically Mommie Dearest if there was also a Grannie Dearest thrown in the mix.I don't know what weird fetish this author has by killing off children in the most gruesome ways, it's like kiddy torture porn. In all the books I've read from him at least a child dies, so much it's become ridiculously morbid and predictable at this point.
I should start my own imprint of mystery/thrillers: "Giant Bag of Coworker's Books, an imprint of HarperCollins."In Amberton, Colorado, "When the Wind Blows" is a time when bad things happen.
The local Native Americans and Mexicans know there's something cursed about the mine: when the Wind blows, you can hear the cries of the water babies.
So every time the Wind blows, Diane goes a little crazy.
(I sort of stopped caring, though, when Christie didn't just get on one of the horses and ride like hell away to the Town Marshal's house, or to Esperanza's, places she could be safe).
Almost, like judging King while saying, "I never read horror." or Tolkien while claiming that you don't care for fantasy, never even touched the stuff.
I won't say that I've never read in these genres, I've for sure have "touched the stuff", but I'm not joining the mystery readers guild or anything of that sort.But though I may not be an expert in the matters of such, I can say that I do believe that I have come to some understanding about such genres.
I believe that some mysteries, suspense and horror books fall just like comedies.
In this case, for John Saul, I think this has happened.In no way does this make the book a "bad" read.
It was good, not great. The way children are treated in some of John Saul's stories might lead some to believe the writer really detests kids. I am sure that is not the case. Maybe he feels it makes for better storytelling. If I were him I would be a little more creative with my plots instead of rewriting the same stories with different characters.
A quick and somewhat formulaic read but still fun in that Lifetime movie, early 1980's horror kind of way.
The town of Amberville is haunted by the shadow of a fifty-year old mining disaster which affected every family living there.
Now Christie Lyons' father has come to town to try to reopen the mine.
Soon enough she's orphaned and living with the Edna and Dianna Amber, the town's nasty matriarch and her doormat of a daughter.
Who is killing young Christie's friends?
Add a half-star if, like me, you are a fan of the paperback horror B-Listers of the 80's
Old timey horror. These are the books I would steal from my brother when I was a teenager. A simple story with simple wording. Good for a laugh, atrocious with spelling and grammatical errors (I would have expected more from a well known horror author) and lots of conversations vs paragraphs. A decent quickie horror read.
Als de opzichter Dhr. Lyons bij een ongeluk om het leven komt, gaat zijn dochter, Christie, tijdelijk bij Diana Amber en haar moeder Edna wonen.
Het belangrijkste is dat als de wind waait Christie lief moet zijn.
Het is spannend zoals we gewend zijn, maar het heeft niet helemaal dat beetje wat me trekt.---John Saul is geboren in 1942 in Pasadena, Californië.
Zowel zijn agent als Dell waren laaiend enthusiast en zagen in dit verhaal een bestseller.
Naast auteur is Saul ook acteur, scriptschrijver en is 1 van zijn boeken in 1984 uitgebracht als film.
Haven't read early John Saul since I was a teenager. Can't remember hardly a thing other than they scared me at the time and contributed to my love of horror. I can't imagine any of his books would have the same effect on me now. John Saul just isn't that good of a writer, even all these years later, I don't think he's gotten any better.
I'd probably give this more like a 3.5 star rating. This is definitely a strange one, but I guess that's what you get from John Saul. If you're looking for something that makes you go "what the?" then this is a story for you.
Though predictable, I did get gripped in the whole family legacy dynamic offered in this book. At times, there was a bit of a "Carrie" theme in the storyline. I am not sure if it worthy to be shelved on my "spooks" shelf though and may have to "sub-shelf" it on "crazy."
Well, John Saul has certainly created some crazy characters in this one. a disturbing tale of mother/child relationships gone horribly wrong.
I read this book many years ago (early 80's). According to the records I've always kept of the books I've read, I thought this book was good. In my early teen years I read mostly all horror books.
I like John Saul, but I don't like that he often kills off all the best characters.
When this book appeared in one of my Goodreads Deal of the Day emails with the notation it was on my "want to read" list, I eagerly snatched it up.
Having read other books of his in the past, I had an idea of what to expect: Something bad happened years ago in Smalltown USA and now that bad thing is happening again as history repeats itself, usually involving the deaths of several children along the way.
However, even with that, this was a very satisfying read that once again ends with the hint of history being about to repeat itself 20 years down the road with the next generation.
Look, if you read enough horror fiction from the 1970s on, then you've already read this book before.
Trust me.
You've probably read it two or three times.
The authors and titles may be different, but it's still the same book.
Now, does that mean "When the Wind Blows" is not enjoyable in a comfort-food kind of way?
I had enough fun with it to keep reading.
Even though, as stated, I have read this book two or three times already.
Nothing new here.
But it serves its purpose, I guess.
Segundo que leo de este autor maltratado en España.La edición es mala y muy difícil de encontrar, con gran cantidad de erratas.Cuenta como en un pueblo, cada vez que el viento sopla, hay algunas personas que reaccionan mal, no saben lo que hacen y luego no se acuerda. Una huérfana llegara a la casa de una familia con su abuela, madre e hija. Descubriremos que paso con el hijo de la madre. Lectura diáfana y simplona. Sentía que estaba viendo una telenovela mexicana.
John Saul was one of my favorite authors when I was a teen. I came across this paperback at a library sale and thought I’d check out an old friend.This was a fun and scary book when I was 15-17. Nothing graphic or gross, just ‘old lady in the house on a hill’ spooky. The characters are a little bit out of Hollywood casting. “Blond beautiful girl in danger”, “Battleaxe old lady in old house”, “Superstitious Mexican Woman”, etc. Fairly easy to follow and a quick read.
This turned out to be a pretty good book. It started out kinda slow and took me a bit to get into. But then, I found myself wondering if Diana was as crazy as she appeared to be and what did her mother have to do with it. Was her mother really the crazy one? Was she doing her daughter more harm than good? And most importantly who else would have to die.
It’s been many years since I have read a John Saul book and reading this one reminded me of everything I loved about them. This book is full of genuinely creepy atmosphere and disturbingly deranged characters. It is also very visual and often feels like you are watching a film. It’s not a perfect book but, like most things written by this author, it gets under your skin!
This book took me a few chapters to get used to the writing style and what was actually happening in the book. I was confused throughout but kept reading because I wanted to know if it was supernatural or just about a crazy town. I still don’t have my answer. This was my frost and last book of this author.
I don't know why there's so much hate for john saul's books I've read a few now the bloke his not bad he rights a good enjoyable read his story's are engage ing and keep me reading too all the Saul haters out there defo don't dismiss him he ent that bad is what I am saying
Very goodVery good but predictable. I’m a huge fan of John Saul so of course I loved the book. But as I said predictable from beginning to end. For me anyway.
This was a weird book for sure! If wind really could effect people in such a way that could be very awful!!! I just absolutely love John Saul!!!
**3.5**
Kept me up reading
Child protective services, anyone?Unintentionally campy and sloppily plotted, this novel is about as believable as a comic book...except not as good as one.
Probably the best book i read this year! The last page... whoa!!! Goosebumps!!!
Wow!! Wicked and creepy! Could NOT stop reading!!
Thriller all the way through. Well written and takes several turns to the final surprising ending. The epilogue adds even more mystery to the story, sound like there should be a sequel.
Bizarre trashy horror that doesn't make a lot of sense but is pretty fun to read. Child/domestic abuse on VC Andrews levels.
