https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/272315.Keeping_You_a_Secret
You weren't on that sofa with your family and the TV or the radio weren't on, everything else was gone when you were inside Holland's head and heart.The most empowering part, after going through half the book and being embraced with Holland's emotions the whole time, that moment when she took the final step and finally, wholeheartedly admitted to herself and to Cece the truth, when she told Cece she wanted to kiss her, it felt like bombs going off in my stomach.
Mostly because I wasn't expecting it to be so damn good and moving and heartbreaking.If you want to feel what true love feels like, right in the pit of your stomach, read this book.
I can’t stand the main character. My worst nightmare would literally be to get stuck in an elevator with her. Please don’t let me hear her voice anymore.
i know all of you are off writing your damn novels this month, but don't forget to support me in my own writing project: NaReWriMo, where i write reviews for teen fiction and you all applaud my brave attempts to keep up despite finding it harder and harder to be charming as every book underwhelms me and i am forced to resort to gimmickry like adding soundtracks; a different song to each paragraph.this is my last gay teen novel for class, so i wish i could be all flamboyant and anthemic and proud about reviewing it, but this book, like all others on this syllabus, was just all right.
Holland Jaeger is the "It" girl everyone envies--she has great friends, she's President of the Student Body, she's the girlfriend of Seth, she's the popular girl who can be counted on to always get along with everyone.
That is, until Cece Goddard transfers in, and Holland's once-perfect life no longer seems so great.
She's shunned by her former friends at school, her mother kicks her out of the house, she's forced to live in a run-down motel that's now a shelter, and she's not sure she'll be able to attend college at all.
KEEPING YOU A SECRET is a great, emotional read, pefect for anyone questioning their sexuality or their place in the world.
I recently started reading romance and it only takes a handful to get the basic layout of a romance novel, two people meet, fall in love, face some kind of obstacle or something that gets between them and makes their relationship difficult and the harder they have to fight to be together the more they must love each other and the happier the ending is.
Reading through the YA fiction available for GLBTQ readers has been a somewhat disappointing experience.
The writing in Keeping You a Secret is just not that great and I'm sorry that GLBTQ YA lit often seems to fall into this category.
I imagine readers are so desperate to see themselves reflected in the literature, that books like this are given a lot more credit than they deserve.
What the book does wrong: unrealistic/flat characterizations, a jerky start that left me a bit confused and questioning whether I wanted to read on and terribly corny slang.
i'm on a semi-professional kick of reading books with young protagonists dealing with sexual awakening.
, and my realization that i like books about kids' sexuality to rigoberto gilb's lovely and brilliant 
. also about kids' sexuality, i'm now reading the astonishing (i keep checking that this is indeed only this author's SECOND NOVEL) 
she is free to come and go as she pleases, to spend the night with her boyfriend, and lead her own life with basically no interference from her mother (except for the college thing, which is an object of constant nagging).
I really didn't like this book!
Cece skeeved me out, with her constant talk about needing Holland (and vice versa), and the two expressing how they "couldn't live without each other."I read this in a day, and it just didn't sit well with me, and I hope I'm not the only one who picked up on the abusive/manipulative undertones and realised how unhealthy and dangerous their relationship was.
I can appreciate the book helping some people come out to their parents, but it is not a healthy thing for young queer kiddos to read, as far as learning about healthy relationships go.
when i first bought this book from the store i didnt read the back cover or the first page.
To be honest, looking at it during first glance i thought the cover was of a boy and a girl and didn't even realize it was a gay couple.
It turned out to be one of the most beautiful and amazing stories i have ever read, i found myself laughing, crying, gasping, yelling, and finishing the book within an hour or two.
Her story was really amazing and inspiring and quite sad as she struggled to deal with the feelings of her mother and her thoughts of what was right and what was wrong.
In most books, sure I like a certain character, but I wouldn’t be sad if they suddenly vanished.
But I very much would have cared if any of the characters in Keeping You a Secret had vanished.
In fact, I think just about anyone who has ever questioned their sexuality can identify with Holland.This book was pretty memorable too.
New Girl comes.
I know that there are people who love this kind of story and don’t mind reading the same thing over and over again.
If you want a quick (but not forgettable) read and you like generic LGBT stories, then you will enjoy Keeping You a Secret.
This is a story about a girl that loved a girl and lost everything because of it...
This is a true account of what really happens still today.
When all was said and done, the one that remained and never turned away was the girl she kissed one night.....Its amazing to me how many reviews on the book by people that have never experienced a coming out, either self, friend, or parent, are oblivious to how many kids become homeless after coming out to their parents.
This is an ongoing problems that is true and happens ever single day.
Poorly executed. Characters lacked, and the romance was terrible. There has to be better LGBT books out there than this. Besides the so-so writing, this book promotes stalking and abusive relationships (friendships and boyfriends/girlfriends).I would not recommend this book to anyone, and this is coming from someone who donates monthly to HRC.
Everything that happened was so extreme and exacerbated to the point of annoyance.
A girl who has no idea that she's gay meets a girl, falls in love and leaves her boyfriend for it....
But then they have to throw in crazy things like homophobic spray paintings on lockers, tire slashings out of some anti-gay retribution, sneaking around and getting thrown out of the house for making it with a girl...
I'm sure this kind of stuff happens still but not to the degree that it's perpetuated by our forms of entertainment.
07.07.17 update:Goodreads says that I read this in 2014 and gave it 5 stars but I have literally NO MEMORY of this book whatsoever. Is it worth getting a copy for rereading purposes or was I just really easily impressed by lesbian rep a few years ago?
I recognize it is for, what, 13 year olds but it makes me feel weird that she is writing about seniors in high school in the absolutely most juvenile way.
I tried, I really did, to think of my 13-year-old self and what reading a book like this could have meant to me.
Unfortunately, I read far better stories with far better LGBT characters as a 13-year-old.
All of these things happen but the story is so choppily written it makes it seem worthy of eye rolls.
I do not remember reading stuff like this as a 13 year old and when I did, I hated it, too.
It's hard to live on people's expectations that once you've got the freedom of doing what you want, you don't know what you would do with it.Julie Anne Peters showed in this book that the teenage years is the hardest part of life, especially when it comes to gender identity.
People reasons out that "it's just a phase", when it's clear as daylight that being gay, lesbian, bisexual or other gender identity is not a phase if the person really knows in his-/herself that s/he is not straight.This maybe a coming-of-age book, but I think parents should read this, too.
This book makes one realize the harsh realities of life for anyone that doesn't conform to the social norm.
It is quite disturbing how backward thinking many people are when it comes to sexuality and sexual orientations despite decades of progress in personal freedom and civil liberties.
The book is not a warning against coming out but it describes in no uncertain terms what this could mean in real life.But above all it is a book about love.
And it elegantly presents the argument that we fall in love with persons not sexes.
Holland is, by all appearances, the perfect high school student.
Everything changes for her one day when CeCe transfers from another school.
CeCe is confident, beautiful, and openly gay and Holland feels drawn to get to know her better.
I thought that this book was a perfect representation of a novel for teens.
Although the romance is between two girls, I don't think that its appeal would be limited to gay and lesbian teens.
I can only imagine how vividly it would speak to a teen living through those difficult high school years.
Realistic and lovely to read. It was a fast read, too. A little sad, but sometimes that's how life is.
Damn, I knew I shouldn't have read this.
I read to escape and this was a booby-trapped escape pod hurtling straight back to the past.
While it was a good book and Holland's journey is nail-bitingly captivating, it is not an easy read.
I suppose that's another thing in it's favour - if it was an easy read it wouldn't be getting the reviews and acclaim that it is.Peters has captured the confusion, the clarity and the fear brilliantly.
She has also managed to create a sense of hope and strength in her characters.
Would it have helped when I was a teenager?
Julie Anne Peters writes a tale of a young teen having it all to the naked eye. However, another teen's appearance propels her to see herself deeper. In  Keeping You a Secret , the protagonist, Holland, finds exactly who she is, with the bumps ahead. Pros :1.  Realistic Teen Lesbian Representation . Holland and Cece act, think, and speak like teens. The only difference is that they are lesbians. No one's a martyr or oversexed. They are allowed to be actual people and not uber-caricatures.2.  Rea
Julie Anne Peters writes a tale of a young teen having it all to the naked eye.
However, another teen's appearance propels her to see herself deeper.
, the protagonist, Holland, finds exactly who she is, with the bumps ahead.
Realistic Teen Lesbian Representation
. Holland and Cece act, think, and speak like teens.
Reality Ensues
Just reality.
Engaging.
Engaging characters
. Peters writes realistic characters.
Cover
But, hey, I'm not a book cover designer.
Overall, Peters presents another tale for LGBTQA readers and non alike to enjoy, especially in June, which is Pride month for LGBTQA folks.4/5 stars (One star less due to the cover)
4.5 STARSFifteen years ago, when KEEPING YOU A SECRET was first published, mainstream publishing house rarely distributed LGBT literature.
Julie Ann Peters’s writing changed that with her stories that appealed to all YA readers, not just the LGBT community.Because in the USA, progress toward not just accepting, but embracing sexual minorities as mainstream, KEEPING YOU A SECRET is dated.
I enjoyed rereading KEEPING YOU A SECRET a second time, the first was when this book was initially published in the early 2000s.
I hoped I'd like this book, but I didn't. characters were awful, story was bad! I didn't care much about the main character and I think she was stupid! and there was no chemistry between her and Cece at all! this book was just bad!
If you don't know what this book is about, then beware that my review contains general spoilers about the topic, although I avoid specific spoilers about events in the story.Keeping You a Secret is a coming of age story that is humorous, thought-provoking, and at times traumatic.
Seth and many of the secondary characters all seemed to have real depth, and were not just placeholders or stereotypes.I read this at the same time that I read the older classic, Annie on My Mind which I reviewed here, and I was more impressed with Keeping You a Secret as a whole.
I would be okay with it, but I am glad it turned out to be something so different…You are a witness to the change, you can feel the change.
This self, though, you don’t recognize its reflection in the mirror… it doesn’t look like you anymore.
But what did you look like before?
It’s hard to stop all the background noise from clouding your thoughts, your vision, your path.
We are okay.
We are okay.
And the journey of self-discovery restarts and it’s so… everything.I would call this book gentle.
It’s like you are always welcome among these characters.
While it is more contemporary than "Annie on my Mind" in its portrayal of a teen realizing she is a lesbian and starting a relationship with another girl, it paints a truly horrific picture of what could happen if a girl doesn't keep her new-found sexual identity a secret.
Holland's mother not only kicks her out of the house, allowing her 10 minutes to pack her belongings in a garbage bag, but she changes the locks on the doors of their home.
David Levithan's "Boy Meets Boy" may be idealistic in its portrayal of a community that is totally accepting of gays and lesbians (not to mention transvestites), but at least it gives its reader hope.
Her boyfriend loves her, as they've been dating for about a year.Then comes along Cece Goddard, the out-and-proud lesbian who just came to the school for some emotional issues at her own school.
Holland instantly feels something different about this girl, something she's never felt before.So without spoiling anything, things go bad for Holland as her relationship with Cece takes off.
But hey, love has a will and a way.I let my girlfriend read this book after I read it and we both constantly argue about who's Holland and who's Cece.
XD We also always do the fist-to-our-heart thing like Cece does.Overall, I loved this book.
I have a hard time with YA because I find much of it superficial, but large chunks of this story were very true-to-life and believable.
The main character's voice was strong and consistent.
The family dynamics and sense of socioeconomic issues were also strong.
I was not expecting the ending to be as dramatic as it was, but for the most part I was okay with it because Peters stayed true to the emotional experience of it.
At times I felt the emotions were played up for dramatic effect, and there were a few sections that felt preachy, but it was an easy, good read.
I read two YA GLBT books in one day, which left me very, very glad that I am not 12 years old.
I thought the last fifth or so of the book was tempered with a little too much information (e.g.
"this is what you can do if you're disowned by your family at the age of 17 for being a homo...").
However, I can very much see how helpful this read might be to someone in a shitty position.
This book tackled step-siblings and step-family, which I appreciate.
For whatever reason, I just don't seem to get a lot of narratives from the perspective of kids with blended families.
I had a hard time rating this one.
I kept swinging between a 3 and a four-so 3.5 stars.I enjoyed the characters and how normal their relationship was-like any other teenage relationship (with certain consequesnces sure) and I appreciated that this author could portray that.
I did like the MC, but I loved her love interest Cece.
She was utterly human, forgivable flaws and all.
There is nothing really extraordinary about this-no new way of showing things or twisted plot lines, or OMG amazing writing.
Just a solid realistic teenage romance about two girls and how their families cope-because it's the families that need to change-not the girls.
