https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16235.Sister_of_My_Heart
Reading this novel is like letting your heart be the passenger of the wildest roller coaster.
And, for me, roller coaster is frustrating.So, yes, I was frustrated reading this beautiful novel.It is full of secrets, revealed one by one within the chapters.
When the secret was out, I felt like leaving the book on the table.
It was just too beautiful to leave behind.The characters, Anju and Sudha, are the roots of complexity of the story.
Derived from what Sudha's father did, their relationship becomes complicated and beautiful at the same time.I don't like Anju.
And, I don't like Sudha either.
كلمتان لا غير : فيلم هندي !
I have very few books that I have rated 5 stars.
Books that I look forward to carving out time to read, books that I think about when I'm not reading them.
Maybe this is why I rate it so highly?
I can't wait to curl up with these characters again in the next book that promises to pick up where this one left off.
This book reminded me of Snow Flower and the Secret Fan by Lisa See, so if you liked that book you will love this one.
Two young girls, raised as sisters, always together, as closer as two can be when their lives are derailed as secret is revealed.
This secret will pull the girls apart and send them on different paths.There are many more secrets to come and each one revealed changes the course of a life.
I am not sure how I felt about these girls, I don't think I fully liked either one, but I did find them intriguing.
Apparently the girls appear again in a later novel by this author, which explains the ending that really did not seem like one.
While this isn’t as mystical as Mistress of Spices, it’s as enchantingly and compellingly told. Two cousins in Calcutta are born prematurely into a household of women on the same day as their fathers die. Their lives are woven together like gold and silver threads, providing strength and contrast to each other as they grow together — and apart — through years, cultures, and arranged marriages. There are secrets, dramas, and...best of all...secret dramas! I loved the complicated relationship between the two cousins as well as the depiction of a culture so different from my own.
Well, let me just summarize my opinion with a single statement: When I read 'The Kite Runner', I realized what lucid, poetic writing is, but when I read this book, I understood the extent of the beauty such prose could conjure.
I was riveted to the story from the beginning to the end.But the only minor snag I felt was, although the novel intrigued me throughout and pushed me on the verge of crying on some occasions, it was never successful in reducing me to tears, like 'The Kite Runner'.Nevertheless, this is a must read for all aspiring writers, those who want to write a quality book.
Two sisters, born out of family calamities, sharing a unique bond by beating distance, bad relatives, and society.Sister of My Heart revolves around Anju and Sudha, born in the same household in Calcutta on the same day- the day when both their mothers are informed that both their husbands are killed in reckless quest for a cave full of rubies.
I fall in love every time when I pick her book.Another beautiful thing about the Sister of My Heart is the relationship between two sisters that has been portrayed.

A very engaging story of the bonds that unite two Indian girls through childhood, marriage and motherhood. Secrets and misunderstandings keep things interesting and the author does a great job of evoking the setting at the start.A very pleasant read.
Some acerbic commentators hint that literary fiction is a neologism and, despite the poetic and lyrical metaphors and similes that enhance the elegance of prose, makes the story unreadable.
Although literary fictions are not the primary source of information about cross-cultures; this novel provides a literary vehicle for cross-cultural readers to understand and enjoy Bengali culture and society in Calcutta.When I completed reading the story, I couldn’t help but wonder if Sudha was going to return to Calcutta from her sojourn to America.
As much as I was enjoying Ghosh's book, too, it just had to wait.After reading the novel, when I found out that Divakaruni wrote a sequel to the story later, “The Vine of Desire” in 2002, I couldn’t help but feel good.
This is the story of two cousins, Anju and Sudha, who grow up together as sisters in Calcutta, and the secrets, loves and life events that threaten to come between them.
Told by the two girls in alternating chapters, at first I liked Sudha's sweet personality best and felt Anju was a bit harsh.
However, as the story developed, Sudha seemed to develop into an overly sentimental character for a little while, and I discovered elements of Anju that I see in myself, so I felt more sympathy for her.
By the end, I felt I had a well-rounded view of both the women.
This is the second book that I've read by this author.
I liked this one.
The author does relationships well and that was such a strength here.
The dialogue is also natural and authentic.
The story is about two girls raised together in the same house that their mothers share.
It is more than a coming of age story as they grow up and find their way in their culture, their family roles and as friends.
The story was engaging and so was the prose.
It was quite gorgeous.
There were some cliches too, but for the most part, I really enjoyed the writing.
I had heard good things about it and for 50 cents, why not?
Well, let me just say it was worth all of that 50 cents, but not a penny more.
The prose is good enough - at least it didn't bore me to tears and having me throw it against the wall.
I think it is the best of it is the setting.
However, I think of those I have read set in India, I would recommend any of the others over this one.
It's really hard to write a good review of a book about which I just feel ...
Just a beautifully well-written story about love in all its variations, forgiveness, and female survival and resilience in modern-day India.
Anju and Sudha are born on the same day in the same house, and although they are distant cousins, they feel like twins and kindred spirits.
They grow up with dreams of what the future holds – Anju assumes they will go to college together, and Sudha surprisingly wants to go the traditional husband and children route.
Adults intervene, as they do in this society; and their futures surprise them both, for good and for bad.The last 40-50 pages are likely to bring a tear or two to your eyes and tug on your heartstrings.
I'm not a great reader of chick-lit and without the exotic setting and key issues in the book, I doubt I would have picked this up.....which would have been a shame. I really loved the drama, romance and passion this book offered. It seems to be about a house full of fractious women all crazy about family position and reputation....I thought I'd throw it across the room. Nope, it was great....go figure.
Divakaruni's poetic portrayal of people and place (sorry for all the alliteration) truly never disappoints. If you appreciate literary novels about cultures and traditions different than your own, this one transcends while taking you deeper into your own heart, learning the joyful and terrifying twists and turns which make all women sisters of the heart. I've already begun the sequel!
أحبُّ الأدبَ الهندي ،وجاءت "شقيقة قلبي" توثقُ أواصرَ هذا الحب أكثر وأكثر . أفتتنُ بالأساطيرِ والخرافاتِ و"شقيقة قلبي" ملائ بأغربها وأحلاها. " شقيقة قلبي " هي النسخة الهندية من "زهرة الثلج والمروحة السرية" تقول باختصار *إن الحب يبني العلاقات كالدم تمامًا* حبٌ ، سدهى وأنجو الأختين غير الشقيقتين ،السامي فوق كلّ الظروف والعقبات والنزعات الإنسانية الوضيعة.
She helps out as an on-stage interviewer for a great Houston-based reading series, Inprint.
In short, she feels accessible to me.Inprint flies in big name authors from all over the country and occasionally the world.
So, when I heard Chitra was going to be featured (alongside Gish Jen) for the last event of the season, my first thought was “aww, they are doing her a favor” followed by “they must be trying to save money by getting someone local”.
(I cannot believe I am admitting this!)In fact, Chitra is quite a good storyteller.
The interview asked how she started writing: Chitra was homesick during graduate school in the U.S. when she learned her grandfather had died back in India.
Beautiful story of two cousins battling opposing forces while bonded by tragedy and torn apart by secrecy.
Yet, despite their differences, they live for each other often putting the other's well being and happiness before her own.Until a family secret is uncovered and their bond is no longer one of sisterhood or love, but one of duty and debt.
Thrusted into arranged marriages, their lives are torn into two opposite directions: Anju to America and Sudha deeper into cultural traditions of servitude, to a point where she no longers resembles herself.Distance grows and their lives continue to take them further and further apart.
The girls are raised by the "3 mothers" and eventually marry, which is complex in itself.One of the things that I really liked about this book is the pleasure one can take in being in this big old house in Calcutta growing up with the girls, all the Indian customs, foods, ceremonies.
It feels more like we were involved in a really good movie then the power went out and now we never know what happens
Though the story-line is good but the ending is rather sudden or I thought it is.
The main highlights were the plights of widow, the struggle of a single women, the superstitious beliefs, role of matriarch, the issue of female feticide.
I find the author did justice to all the issues without dramatizing anything.
I had watched a Pakistani drama Mera Naseeb  (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mera_Na...) and all along thought that this is a copy of that but only later found that this is other way round.Author has accused the writers of the show of plagiarizing her novel for the story of the serial.
I don't know why I didn't give it 5 stars?
The language of the book lulled me deep into the story, which is of two girl children raised in the same family in Calcutta in current times.
The book primarily explores the cataclysmic changes in the social mores of the upper class as it meets with modern times, but through the tender telling of the stories of these two young women and their love for each other.
The language is that of a fable; the detail is rich and sweet.
The story line tops the most intricate murder mystery.
OK I added a star.
After "Arranged Marriage" I picked this book to read.
I was mesmerized by Chitra's ability to take me to a city I've never been to, where I could smell and taste and visualize and understand everything Bengali...
a culture I've barely known personally.
Chitra's ladies in the book: Sudha & Anju are women that we will never forget.
The strength of their relationship is awe-inspiring and it makes a loner like me want a sibling or a best friend of that calibre!
I have recently come into the possession of the sequel called "Vine of Desire" and I can't wait to plunge into the worlds of Sudha & Anju again!
It started off slow but by chapter 17 I was fully immersed in the story of Anju and Sudha. It turned out to be a really great story, with many twists and turns as well as an unexpected surprise near the end. This book is a glaring reminder that it doesn't matter what race or religion you are, our stories of disillusionment, love, pain, discontent, longing and finally resolution are often the same.
4.5 starsBecause i wanted to know a little bit more about Anju and sudha. Such a powerful story of love, sacrifices, relationships, being strong.
I really wanted to like this book, and I was super excited to learn more about Indian culture, which I admittedly am extremely ignorant about.
This did sort of add to my knowledge, but overall it was super difficult to connect with the story.
I wasn't a huge fan of any of the characters, and I had to squint to see any character development.
The ending of the story did make up a bit for it because there was a reveal that shocked me (which is rare!) but overall, reading this book felt like slogging through mud.
When I started reading this I thought that it would be another Bengali writer who has moved from Calcutta to India or his parents moved much earlier and they are still seeking roots.
The best part of it was that 90% of the novel is set in India and it actually takes you through the growing up phase of two girls who were like sisters and how their lives intertwined no matter how far they went.
I suggest Chitra should stick her characters to Calcutta.
In the second half, Divakaruni seems to want to do too much and the purpose of the plot seems to be lost in all of the side developments.
I do like how Sudha grabs her own freedom and fights for change, but the female power message is a little heavy handed to me, especially since almost all of the male characters are weak and despicable.
I'm not sure why Divakaruni even brings Ashok back except to reiterate her already redundant female empowerment theme.
It's a decent read, just for the description and style, but don't expect too much from the plot.
I particularly liked it because I spent many years selling new homes to young Indian couples in Naperville, IL.
Another observance - that first male son is sacred to Indians just as the book indicated.
I remember the 3year old son of one of my clients who had free rein (and reign ) of the world - he ripped the office in my model home to shreds and his parents just smiled on adoringly - I wanted to smack him and scream NO - a word I'm sure was never uttered in his presence!
I actually have a great admiration or Indians and India it is the only place in the world I regret not visiting!
An emotional roller coster yet scrumptious read! If you love stories stepped in mythology ( in this case Bengali) in realistic settings this book might be for you. It's not if you hate complicated love triangles. I often don't, but I could not put this book down. Set in Calcutta, this novel follows the lives of two cousins who grew up together like sisters. It follows the trials and tribulations of first loves, arranged marriages, societies restrictions on women and ultimately individuals finding their place in the world. I can't wait to read her sequel The Vine Of Desire!
