https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44830.The_Portable_James_Joyce
I thought Harry Levin's Introduction and prefaces were barely informative, but given the fact that it includes 'Dubliners' and 'A Portrait of the Artist...' in full, and that most people will only read 'Ulysses' and 'Finnegan's Wake' in excerpted form anyway, this may the only Joyce book you'll ever want to own.'Dubliners' is far and away the most accessible and consistently rewarding and enjoyable work here.
James JoyceWhat more can I say? I would follow his words to the ends of heaven the rim of hell. I would lose many of them along the way and have to circle back and gather them stuffing them in pockets, braiding them into my hair, feeding a few to the magpies and dropping others in the path of the erudite hoping they might trip over them and become confused.James Joyce.
This is an anthology that I read various stories from for different classes. I found out that Im not a huge fan of James Joyce.
Although there may be an ironic tinge to some of these descriptions of Irish behavior, there is little to no interior monolog or psychological explanation (except in The Dead, when the main character is modeled on Joyce himself); rather the reader must intuit the interior thoughts that result in specific acts.The final short story, “The Dead,” focuses on the annual ball given by two elderly women who epitomize the Irish celebration of tradition, one of the chief causes for the inability of the Irish to accept change and modernization.
Hmm.Few can turn a phrase like him.
I had little actual experience reading Joyce and so this seemed a good start.
The Dubliners is fine if you like that sort of thing and easy to follow.
I love short stories, but not being Catholic and not interested in a lot of his obsessions, I found it kind of unremarkable.
Again, I love the way he turns a phrase, and I will take quotes from him, but read any more of his long works.
I use this for performances: The Dedham James Joyce Ramble.AND - Runners World interviewed me for an article coming out in the August issue (or, coming out in August...I don't know which) on the Ramble....it is an event where runners run and readers read. The guy who thought of it said: Joyce is as exhausting mentally as a road race is to read..and then decided to combine the two. It is a costumed (late Victorian) held in beautiful countryside and finishes at a Stately Country Home....with music and a picnic check it out!
Just picked up an old edition of this from '62. Damn those Viking books are durable, not like the crappy editions that are put out today. Also, unlike today's paperbacks, they actually fit in your pocket.Now for the words: the complete Dubliners and POTAaaYM alone makes it worth having. The selections from Ulysses and Finnegan's Wake give you a taste (which honestly, is enough for me)of these works.
No doubt that Joyce was talented, but his writing is just not for me. I had to read parts of Ulysses, parts of The Dead, and A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man for a class that I loved in college, but his writing for me is hard to interpret.
The entire volume is introduced briefly (16 pages); each major work has a short preface as well. Not surprisingly, such brevity omits the many interpretations of Joyce's works, and much background material. But this is a good get-your-feet-wet volume...
First I have to say I would of rather of had the entire books of each that is in this collection; however, just to see his writing style and the opportunity to pick up on his use of words is quite rewarding. Also the picture he paints of the past days of Europe is nifty.
a masterpiece
A good collection of his shorter works with snippets from the longer novels, though if you gonna read them, pony up and do it big, y'all!
More like The Snortable James Joyce. Shit was dope!
The only way I know of to get a bound copy of Exiles for less than a few hundred bucks.
Had to use this for a text in grad school. This is a lovely, portable selection on this writer's most popularly read selections!!
read Dubliners, excellent series of short stories covering different periods of ones life.
Read: All of Dubliners and Portrait. Selections from Ulysses (Circe, Sirens, Hades, Penelope? Maybe). Some poetry.
Joyce isn't everyone's cup of tea, but I enjoy him, and this is a great way to dive in
You can't go wrong with this ... this is like a little treasure chest.
Abbreviated, yes. Expurgated, no. I hesitated to violate my in depth reading of Joyce by taking in this adulterated text but actually found it to be quite good.
very interesting.
I much prefer Joyce's short fiction to his longer works, but he's still a very important writer and I'm glad I gave it a shot. You should, too.
