https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/82229.Passages
This book was written in the 1970's, and helped me through a couple of difficult passages in my life. I was young then, and I'm not young now (68), but it's just possible that I might pick it up and read it again. It certainly helped me survive a couple of personal crises in my life...
Passages by Gail Sheehy is a book that I saw lying around the house a lot when I was a kid.
Since I am writing a memoir about my mom, I thought I'd read some of her favorite books.
According to Sheehy, when we are young adults, many of us rush into choosing a role so that we can "get on" with life.
As mid-life approaches, many people start to realize the narrowness of that role and the sacrifices demanded by taking it on.
A great read and still relevant, even though it was written in the mid-70s.
A very interesting read. A bit dated given that attitudes have changed since it was written in the early 70's. But still widely applicable, IMO. At least to my generation. Gave some interesting insights into the 40's decade I've somehow slipped into. And brought back a lot of memories as well. I spent a lot of time looking back at the past as I read, and the major turning points and crisis points of my life fit quite accurately into this pattern. But of course I never realized that at the time.
See, this is what happens when you hire a bookish babysitter. I can't begin to explain why, at age 14 I thought I should read this instead of, I dunno, watching TV. Yeah, see I didn't go prying around, I'd just grab a book of the family room shelf.Let's just assume it was a good idea, that some sort of pop wisdom filtered into my head so that now, in middle age, I'm taking life in stride.
Middle age provides enough history to see major life events with some perspective. Consideration of the future begins to gain focus."Passages" provided a vocabulary and understanding of how we all deal with loss and tragedy. I began to see myself on Sheehy's various steps and reminded me that 1) my feelings were normal and a part of a process and, 2) This too shall pass. Her book brought rationality to some of the most painful emotions we encounter.LB 2012
A retro pop-psych book that reads like a point of entry into the minds of Betty and Don Draper. The upshot: no matter where you are right now in your identity crisis, unless you are totally inhibited beyond help, ruined by your parents, or poorer than a Westchester socialite, around the age of 50 you will emerge from your crummy chrysalis self-realized, artistic, and jazzed about life.
This is an interesting bit of insight into the "predictable crises" of adult life.
Divided in sections by life stages (the trying 20's, the catch 30's, the forlorn 40's) Sheehy tries to help us understand the 'developmental rythms" of life, and how to use that knowledge to reach our full potential.
I've read bits & pieces, here & there, and am now reading from it again...Feb.
'08: Part five: "But I'm Unique"; chpt.
16- Women's Life Patterns.~Late Baby Superachiever (!?); interesting..."...very little patience with people whose capacities are impaired by wrestling with their private hells.
She has conquered her own or ignored them.
When someone recommended this book to me, I thought that it was just another self-help book, which was full of stereotypes, and pat answers, but to my delight, Sheehy pretty much steered clear of all that. I guess I had never pondered that life is comprised of a series of "losses", which compel us to adapt, and ultimately to grow. I think simply knowing that change will come, is helpful; and this book brings encouragement in facing those inescapable passages of life, where disillusionment can get the better of us.
I learned that the course for life is a ongoing, reflecting process and that each of us chooses the path differently. And that is never too late to change one's course. Her examples of specific people and their choices of paths was very helpful.
Somewhat outdated, especially the women's issues, but still an invaluable tool in self-examination and growth. Covers the predictible pattern of aging and maturing for men and women, yet resists the stereotyping and type-casting of most books of this type.
I also read a 30th anniversary version that did not revise any of its content, and for a book that's clearly dated and written in the 70s, I think it's a missed opportunity to incorporate what could be really interesting updates to some of her original theories and statistics.
And with that, I think her theories can only be taken with a grain of salt as we're forty years on with very different values and circumstances than the decades in which generations grew and learned before us (never mind the Millennials).I also wish she had holistically divulged a little more about the subjects she interviewed (even in chart or list form), especially numbers regarding geography, single/married/remarried/divorced, age ranges, kids, length of time she interviewed them for, etc.
I have read parts of this book earlier in my life but this time I wanted to read it all the way through.Sheey presents a new understanding of the predictable crisis of adult life, much like the book Erickson had written before on life's early years.
During the thirties, our illusions are shaken and it's time to make, break or deepen our life commitments.
The forties are the dangerous years, when the dreams of youth are reassessed, men and women switch characters and sexual panic is common.
Presents new paradigms to help us understand our lives, all done in a very readable format.
I didn't really find what I was looking for, except for one thing: lots of highlighting up to page 60, then it stops.
Yeah, Mom, that's about where I lost interest too.Gail Sheehy is a journalist, not a trained psychologist, so while she may have some interesting observations on psychology, it seemed that she spent a lot of pages on stories instead of concepts.
The generational milestones she observed in 1974 feel dated and reflective of the morals and social norms of her generation.
I really believe that our true age in life is changing through our experiences.
As we deal with life's crises we have to regroup our ways, consequently our developmental age regresses until we're able to learn from and push through that passage in our life.Depending on what we've been through in life and how we've dealt with what we have been through, we can either be well ahead of or well below our chronological age number.
Gail Sheehy reminds us that life is basically a series of developmental passages.
As a result of our experiences are developmental changes can be dynamic.
Author Gail Sheehy shares case studies & insights into barriers to happiness many of us encounter. "Know thyself" & what as an age or generation you expect, your past & present lovers expect, what makes us tick--and I feel good answers to the question, 'Why am I like this?' or 'Why did he/she do that?'" A somewhat lighter link to a current article with related subject: http://www.californiapsychics.com/art...
Since I haven't finished reading this book and started it while I was living in the Bahamas, i will tag it as currently reading. This book is fantastic and really helps to understand both men and women as we head through the different passages that life brings our way. I have found it very insightful and helps me to know that I'm not losing my mind!
This book opened my eyes, and reassured me. No, I'm not alone in my life crises. Yes, the future is full of promises. I've talked about this book around me and many people recognised themselves, too. Very insightful, well written and documented.Some references are a bit outdated since the book was written in the 1970s (especially the role of women) but it's a minor inconvenience.
Every woman should read this book! I did at age 35, and have since bought it for every friend who's found herself at a "fork in the road." Incredibly important for all of us who've wondered if we were the only ones in the world going through this trial, this hurt, this challenge.
Let's take all of Sigmund Freud's "work" and use it to line the birdcage. Passages is the reference book to see what's ahead (and behind) for people of every age phase. Loved this book, Sheehy's writing style, fact finding, and case studies. A must-read for every age.
Very interesting read. Made me feel better about my worries about life. Apparently the are very common! Note about this book: it was written in the 1970s. Keep that in mind when you read some of the life histories. But the basic idea of the book still stands for people today.
This book meant a lot to me because I was reading it when I met a good looking Canadian fresh off the plane. Amazingly, he too was reading the book and we sat till long in the night discussing what it meant to us. He has now been my husband for 29 years!
Interesting.
Chosen as a seminal work on a topic that fascinates me, I've labored to complete Sheeny's classic on life transitions.
But because her findings are simple and irrefutable, and reading them left me feeling that my own life is a cliche.
This truth comforts and confounds at the same time.
Written in the early 1970's, some references and examples are decidedly reflections of that time.
However, the struggle to free-oneself from from the inner-custodian is universal.
As my own struggle continues into my 50's, reading about others finding, or losing, their way in the process left me weary.
While it's a bit dated (written in 1976), this road map for life seems to hold up.
It predicts the crises I see in my own life and in those around me.
It explains their biological, psychological, and cultural causes.
It offers acute warnings of wrong turns and dead ends.
It forced me to look closer at my own fears and desires, but also to find comfort in not knowing how things are going to turn out.
It also gave me a new understanding and appreciation for people who took and have taken different routes through life.
Good Book.
The great part of this book is the amount stories she collected from various people.
I think it's great to have so much insight on other peoples lives and to make comparisons of how I've seen these patterns in my own life.
She has a wonderful way with words that pulls you through the book even if the material is a little thicker.
The book was written in the seventies and I think it would be very interesting to see how the patterns of adulthood have changed with increased acceptance and tolerance to unconventional lifestyles.
I read this book on the recommendation of one of my colleagues in the late seventies. At the time I was reading nothing but non-fiction. While it had some good points to make, I said to my friend, "I could have written this so much better." She said, "If you can write better than this, why aren't you doing it?" I told her that I really had nothing to say. It was a good twenty years before I set out writing fiction.
I've had this book for decades, but waited until I retired to read it. It was interesting, and written in an easy style. Of course, I would have liked more discussion and examples of folks age 60+. I also have her follow-up book called Pathways, or something like that, that I plan to read. I think it has more examples of people passing through various stages in their life.
Although this book was pretty dated (having been published in the 1970s) I found a lot of the argument still valid. I thought of many friends and acquaintances and their stories of internal malaise as I read through each section (age range) of the book. Very good read for anyone who wants to know about adult development.
This is an educational book, a self help, that taught me I am not alone through the different "Passages" one goes through life and that when we arrive at a certain age, certain crises come down on you and help guide you on the next level in one's life. It was an interesting read if a bit outdated. (514 pgs)
got this for a college class umm, 20 yrs ago, going to read it thoroughly this time, especially since i'm at the mid-life crisis stage!! just finished this and must say even if it is a bit outdated in statistics, it is interesting and makes you think about the different changes you experience in your lifetime.
