https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/199576.The_Rise_and_Fall_of_Adolf_Hitler
Extremely well-written and informative. Shirer is a great authority on this subject (as a firsthand observer of Hitler!); he simply and clearly explains the nitty-gritty, complicated events of Hitler’s life, rule, and death. This book actually made me want to read others in the World Landmarks Series, even though I’ve never been very interested in the subject of History. This is the most I’ve learned about WWII since high school. An amazing, insightful read.
The Rise and Fall of Adolf Hitler by William L.
It begins when Hitler has an argument with his father.
Hitler wanted to be an artist.
The plot follows Hitler and tells us what he thinks.
The setting is easy to identify because of the attitude Hitler shows there.
Showing all people's views helps the narrator explain what people thought of Hitler.
Themes of not giving up or showing defeat are shown as he falls.
Themes of pursuit are shown as he rises.The narrator point of view helps it so Hitler's accomplishments are not viewed kindly.
I do believe the author could have chosen a better use for words, but the life of Adolf Hitler was a sad one. The author focuses on Hitler's mental state throughout the book, which is a bit annoying based on the repetition.There are a few things about Adolf Hitler I learned from this book that I didn't know before.This is a quick read full of factual events based on Adolf Hitler's life.It seems World War 11 was unnecessary. Hopefully, we will learn from history.
Shirer published “The Rise and Fall of The Third Reich.” The tome was over 1200-pages long, and based on numerous sources, including Nazi officials’ journals, Nuremberg Trial records, various intelligence reports, and—perhaps most importantly—on the author’s firsthand observations as a CBS journalist covering these events.
Shirer’s book covers the basics of Hitler’s life, as well as his infamous rise to power and eventual death.
He does this admirably.“The Rise and Fall of Adolf Hitler” works perfectly to introduce younger readers to this horrific yet relevant period in our world’s history, or to provide a primer for adults who feel daunted by the longer historical accounts.
I read this book just to know what I may not have otherwise learned along the way.
It was an easy book to read, but was difficult to read because of the horror of war, the driven insanity of Adolf Hitler, the unspeakable cruelty he promoted and insisted upon toward anyone in his way.
He was insane.My father is a WWII veteran, and I deeply respect all WWII soldiers who put their lives on the line to stop the attempted overtaking of the world, a little at a time.
As it progressed it became very hard to stop, including several attempts on Hitler’s life which were unsuccessful.
At daybreak on September 1, 1939, the German army poured across the Polish border while German bombers rained destruction from the skies, WW II had begun--"Hitler'swar," as the British say.As an American correspondent in Berlin, William Shirer had met Hitler, listened to his fiery speeches, and observed him firsthand.
THE RISE AND FALL OFADOLF HITLER is based on what Shirer saw and on his later research of the massive files captured by the Allies."Hitler's conquest was classic.
However, the author uses words like "crazy" "demented", etc.
but I think the author could have let the facts speak for themselves.
While this book is extremely informative, it explains everything in a clear manner that is easy and fun to read. This book has me wanting for more! While Adolf Hitler was a horrible man, his life and his trail to leadership was fascinating. Hitler was not an extremely good leader; he lied and gave extremely long speeches that made people believe!
I read this one in Junior High or High School. Taught me alot about Hitler, The Treaty of Versailles and WWII. Shirer is a master historian.
The best history that I've read of Hitler and his brutal reign of tyranny.
In his 1961 biography, author William L. Shirer recounts the life story of history’s most infamous villain in The Rise and Fall of Adolf Hitler. Taking care not to leave out any important chunks of the man’s life, Shirer begins the tale in 1889 with Hitler’s birth, following him through his rough father-son relationship, his days spent loafing and attempting to get an education in art, his years as a tramp in Vienna and his discovery of the National Socialist German Workers' Party- the very rag
Shirer also makes it clear that he aims to include Hitler’s own words and writing when appropriate - and both of these things do validate The Rise and Fall of Adolf Hitler as a historically accurate biography.
Although The Rise and Fall of Adolf Hitler hits all of the highlights of the demented man’s life story and does it with good organization, style, and structure, the biography ultimately fails in going above and beyond to create a book that is compelling for readers who know their way around some World War II history, and even a general audience reader is not going to want to leaf through its pages more than once.
Though (or perhaps because) he was writing seemingly for a younger audience, Shirer cannot seem to muster interest in his subject. This trait follows into his The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich, another book by him I failed to enjoy. At least this was short? It might help young students if they could get past the somewhat stilted language.
I usually enjoy WW2 books but since this was a required reading by my WW2 class it was not enjoyed as much. It was interesting in the fact that I learned so many new things about Hitler's corrupted soul.
Sehr knappe, aber nicht seichte Biographie. Ich war angenehm überrascht. Das sollte ruhig übersetzt werden.
nice
Hitler had a pretty harsh childhood and a mean adult life. Pretty good book.
Good brief overview of Hitler from birth to death.
I liked it because it was accurate, easy to read, and I learned a lot.
“The Rise and Fall of Adolf Hitler” by William L. Shirer was in my opinion one of the most interesting books that I have read about the life of Adolf Hitler. This biography gave me a close up look of the terror committed by Hitler. This book also gave me a full insight of what was going on in the head of the Führer (Adolf Hitler) during WWII. The fact that the author was an American correspondent in Berlin and had the chance to observe Hitler firsthand made his book even more interesting.
I learned a lot about the Fuhrer and Nazi Germany, and I shared the information with interested friends and family.The information was (assumedly) rock solid, but some aspects of the content weren't reduced so much as cut, and sometimes a little deeply, leaving frayed strands.Another interesting takeaway from this title is reading it adjacent to Walter Isaacson's Steve Jobs.
Having read that years previously and Jack London's The People of the Abyss recently, I wonder whether Hitler had been exposed to these authors in his youth as opposed to Wagner and Nietzsche might have had a significant impact on his life philosophy.
Shirer was, in my opinion, one of the most intriguing books that I have read about the life of Adolf Hitler.
The fact that the author was an American correspondent in Berlin and had the chance to observe Hitler firsthand made this book even more veritable and interesting.
The book did in fact include a few minor inaccuracies, not enough, in my opinion, for it to lose a star from my rating though.
So, all in all, I would definitely give this book five stars due to its concise and descriptive account of the life and times of the ruthless Führer of Germany, Adolf Hitler.
I say this because I am a disabled combat veteran of the Vietnam War.Mr Shirer was a correspondent stationed in Berlin for the entire rise of Hitler and most of his decline, he must have been asked to leave in 1944 or early 1945 because he covers most of the action until then as an insider.
Having read a large number of books concerning Hitler over the years, I found this to be an excellent " primer " for someone that needs to know the factual details quickly, and blow by blow.
All of the basic details are there, including a few morsels that I found to be very much inside information.
The Rise and Fall of Adolf Hitler is a great book that shows the point of view of Hitler during WWII.
Once he started to gain some power in Germany he became very famous and the German population loved him.
It had a great way of showing the setting and time period of Hitler's life.
Altough this book was written by a cultural outsider, the book is very accurate in the facts that it has and is very well researched.
It sticks with the facts very solidly.
I really liked this book and would reccomend it to anyone looking for a good non fiction WWII that portrays a different view of the war.
This is a biography about Hitler and his evil reign when he conquered most of Europe.
The facts where interesting to read about and it really made you wonder what Hitler was really like.
It makes me want to read more about this interesting, terrible man.
This convinces me that what I am reading about Hitler is true.
In some parts of the book you go into the mind of that this evil tyrant was thinking during his reign.
I would recommend this book to anybody who wants a quick nonfiction read about this evil, dark man named Adolf Hitler.
The Rise and Fall of Adolf Hitler is biography about him.
It tells of his rise from poverty and homelessness to become dictator of Germany.
The content in this book is accurate.
The coverage of this topic is highly adequete, making this book the length of a fairly small chapter book.
The author is however, highly objective.
His perspective is against Hitler and and is clearly acknowledged.
Other than that, the book is well orgainized and written clearly.
I would recommend this book to a younger audience.
This book is simple and easy to understand.
Older people should find a more detailed and less objective biography of Adolf Hitler.
This book is a very clear and concise baby cousin to Shirer's excellent opus "The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich" focusing primarily as a short biography of Adolf Hitler.
In fact, it's so clear and concise that the number of pages that pass between Hitler's homelessness in Vienna to the utter destruction of all his political opponents during "The Night of Long Knives" in the summer of 1934 is about 50 pages.
I got this book many years ago when I was in elementary school.
I don't think I ever actually read it---just looked at the pictures---but I've been dragging it around with me all this time.
The tone is insufferably condescending (it is a book for young readers).
There is the occassional historical inaccuracy (it is now well known that Hitler was not the seventh member of the DAP).
But what mars this book beyond redemption is that it offers no insight whatsoever into Hitler's rise to power.
It reads like a fairy tale with all the focus on the wicked step-parent.
I picked up this book at lunchtime in the library and after reading a couple of pages, I didn't feel like eating anymore.
The topic of this book is so depressing and it makes me feel like my life is the best in the world.
This is the first book where I had to put down without reading the whole thing because the facts were too much to take.
If the idea of gassing millions to death and burning them horrifies you, don't read this book.
I hardly remember the facts I read, except a visual of burning bodies.
The Rise and Fall of Adolf Hitler, by William L. Shirer, is about the life and tyrannical reign of Adolf Hitler. It is set in WWII Europe, has a clear plot, is interesting, highly informational, and is well-constructed. It's real characters are consistent. It follows Hitler's life from being a bum in Vienna to the supreme tyrant of most of Europe. This book's point of view is perfect, as its from a man who was a U.S. correspondent to Berlin, and knew Hitler. I recommend this book to anyone interested in what happened during WWII.
Shirer tends to editorialize in his analysis, not only in this book, but also in other books he has written about Hitler. Although I believe Hitler was probably crazy, Shirer writes as though it is a fact. He also makes assumptions about Hitler's relationship with his family and friends. Having said that I believe the author is qualified, perhaps more than other writer to provide a historical depiction of what actually happened in Germany between 1920 and 1945. A very good book and a quick read if you want a quick summary of WWII in Europe.
I have a strange obsession with dictators and communism. I find them intriguing and it to be an interesting topic to study. I thought this was a great book, very well written and seemed to be accurate, considering it was written in the 60's (i think?).It was a real page turner and the writer did a good job at keeping it interesting which is rare sometimes when it comes to history. Definitely recommended if you are interested in the topic, for school or just to read a good history book. 5 stars.
