https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/797274.Mandingo
While looking at her shelf I spotted this book Mandingo and rudely picked it up and started reading it(God!
I told her I had always wanted to read Mandingo but it was hard to find.
She said that since she didn't like it she just wouldn't feel right taking my money.Thank you Mrs. Wilson.Now on to the review.I now know why Mrs. Wilson dnf'd this book, I almost dnf'd it about 8x if not more.
I've never read a weirder or more poorly written book and I don't think I ever will.
Slavery is never sugarcoated in Mandingo, slaves are treated like they are subhuman.
I read this book many years ago.
I don't remember the whole story; however, I remember it is about slavery in the U.S. I think this is a historical fiction because the book actually reflexes many of the atrocities that actually occurred during slavery.
The characters are not real; however, slave owners, overseers, and slaves are a historical fact.
Slaves had to work as house and field slaves under owners and overseers who saw them as property rather than human beings.
Further, unwanted sex and violence were wrongs that slaves had to endure.Life on the plantation was not great.
The author capitalized on human nature by exploiting our fascination with sex and violence.
Now this book is about fifty flavors of racist, and bigotry just leaps from the pages, yet it is a compelling read.
Not for the faint of heart or the historically literate, it's like a train wreck -- once you start, you can't put it down!Onstott is not a "Great American Writer", but he takes some of the most hated traditions of an evil institutions and blends them into a sexy soap opera and somehow it becomes memorable.
Don't get me wrong, it's not a "Must Read" by any stretch of the imagination, and it will take an amazing imagination to get to the last page.
But if you get to the last page, the story and characters will stay with you for a long, long time.
It's not exactly like the movie, which was a surprise because I thought it was crazyass already.)So that's the plot: owning a fighter and getting married, and neither turn out the way Hammond thinks they should.
I wanted to know what happened to these clowns - black and white alike - and see if yet another small task in Hammond's daily life would be dragged out for multiple chapters.For example, Big Pearl (Mede's sister) comes down with a "misery" and this rather blah event (Sick slave!
This book published in 1957 is apparently very racist and does not take the negative view of slavery that the post-60s civil rights era changed for most people. I'm interested in reading it from that angle.
This story is not for the faint at heart because it is racism at its worst but it was the way of life in the antebellum South in Alabama- plantation: Falconhurst!
Hammond's wife Blanche was not a virgin (like all the slaves he like to bed) piece of work and played her part well of a vengeful wife and jealous slave mistress on the plantation.
Hammond was a likable slave owner but he showed too many sides of what the white man was allowed (elitist) and sometimes did what others slavers did to fit in in Alabama and New Orleans.
I thought this book was a little rough around the edges and may offend some that read it but for me it opened a veil into another time and showed a sad and violent truth. I loved this book and have read it more than once. The characters are very well developed and the storyline is interesting. This is one of my favorite books although I wouldn't recommend it to everyone as it paints an ugly picture of the past that some do not wish to see.
Revisiting the works in adulthood I found a few flaws - plots tend to be a bit samey, the dialogue of the Negro slaves can be wearying to decipher, and it's hard to fall for the implication that the authors are tut-tutting at the abomination of slavery, when it's obvious they're enjoying every line they write - but it's hard to deny their read-along quality.
When her indiscretion is discovered, however, Hammond has no choice (given the revolting social mores of the time)but blame the poor slave, and boil him alive in a pot!Yes, it's a violent tale, probably too much so for some tastes.
I read this book as a teenager and in hindsight I can say that it made quite an impression on me. First it was mature reading beyond my years and second it was a crash course on slavery in America. Impressive on both counts.
One of my favorite books. I have read it many many times.
Bored by their rural life, young white men enjoy sex with their female slaves and wagering on fights between their most muscular male slaves.
Slave breeding and prices are about the only things that the plantation owners seem to have enough knowledge about and interest to discuss.Hammond Maxwell is 18 years old and an only child.
Although Hammond has had many children by his female slaves, his father is looking for a white child who can be an heir to their plantation, Falconhurst.
Hammond, on his side is willing to do his duty to provide his father with progeny, but finds sex with slaves much more satisfying than with his wife.
This book was my introduction to slavery as it was practiced here in the United States long before my family came to the American shores.
While not a novel of "high style", it is a novel that showed the brutality of slavery long before Alex Haley even thought about writing "Roots".
I read this while I was in elementary school, for the first time, but the audience for this is not the typical "pulp fiction" reader, but more of the college educated who can put this novel of the savage brutality that was American Slavery in the proper context.
This was in a pile of what I'll call my Mom's trash books along with the Harold Robbins and Jacqueline Susann.
I would read anything within hand's reach then as there was only the school library or a very small town book store.
All I can say is "What an eye opener for a young Canadian girl".
While I knew the book itself wasn't fact it taught me a little more than school was teaching me about our southern neighbours.
I ended up reading the whole pile that Mom had as it was fascinating yet sickening at the same time.
My father had all of these books and they were quite sensational in their day, so I sneakily read them as a teenager.
I read Mandingo again a few years ago and was able to view it as a much older adult.
It is very racist and yet the white characters are not portrayed sympathetically either.
The writer does not form "sides"; he writes the characters' stories almost dispassionately and the reader is left to form his own opinion as to each character's merits or failings, and the culture of the times.
It is, 50 years later, still a brutal tale.
When I read this in the 1970s I was quite surprised to learn that it had been published in 1957. It portrays slavery and racism in the 1800s and, in that portrayal, it is sure to offend post-60s sensibilities. As the historic conditions of slavery go, this is mild except, maybe, in the minds of our contemporaries. The plot is strong and the writing is competent so it's no struggle at all to read. I won't recommend it for anyone in particular, though. If you read it just keep in mind that it's a novel, not a history.
Now we are adding books from my father's extensive booklist - not so well-known authors with not so noble plots. Certainly this story is a compelling one - and from an awful time in our country's history when folks could own other people and do terrible things to them. A story of bigotry, lust and hatred.
امروز پنجشنبه ششم اسفند 1394 وقتی می خواستم اطلاعات مربوط به این کتاب را وارد سایت کنم، نگاهی دوباره به آن انداختم. باورم نمی شود که 515 صفحه آن را ظرف مدت پنج روز خوانده اممرحوم محمد قاضی در مقدمه چهار صفحه ای کتاب اطلاعات مبسوطی در مورد نویسنده آن ( کایل آنستوت ) و معنی نام اصلی کتاب ( مندینگو ) ارائه کرده است
I was in middle school when I read this and I found the duality fascinating and disturbing. Wow, I had forgotten what the cover even looked like, but I remember the title and the dog-eared pages of scenes that got passed around the lunch table...
این کتاب معرکه ست..فقط در عجبم چرا اینهمه کتاب شبیه به این و کسی ترجمه نکرده یعنی اسم کتابهای معروف و که ورق میزنی زیرش یه سری کتاب همسان هم معرفی کرده ولی تمام اون معروفها و خوندنیهاش بدون ترجمه فارسی موندهچرا ؟ترجمه اش کنید دوستان خواهشا...
I'm adding this because I want to add a new category: "miscegenation sensation". And because Tracey reminded me of it; the book, I mean.
This was an agonizingly long novel with no seeming point except to draw out the double-standards of Southern Culture; and the social ills of Southern White Men.
درسته که واقعیتی را به تصویر کشیده بود ولی کتاب ارزشمندی نبود
I first read “Mandingo” as a young teen and, as I recall, was titillated by its sexuality and shocked by its brutality.
I just read it again and found the sexuality greatly diminished and the shock value diluted by more recent revolting narratives.
It sold well, was made into a movie that was widely viewed (and panned), and was never considered anything but a sensationalist’s creation with no literary value.
Its depiction of a southern plantation that bred slaves with stereotypical characters, brutal treatment, and illicit dalliances seems hastily scribbled together by a person desperate to get something completed that will jolt readers, promote sales, and prove a windfall for its creator.Mission accomplished.
Lo leí en español. El tema de la esclavitud en Estados Unidos, en clave de edulcorada lectura para señoras. Tiene lo suyo, con toques de erotismo de esos tiempos. Lo leí hace años y lo recomiendo. Daño no hace.
I read this years ago and it is a great book.
Enjoyable and graphic read set in the 17th century. Suspect you be hard pressed to find a copy. "The Kitchen House" recalled my memories.
Fascinating. To my mind a much more vivid illustration of the evils of slavery than the more politically correct prose of more recent years.
While this is an informative read about slavery, it is also very appalling and disturbing.
I'm marking this a read, although I didnt actually read it, my mother did and then gave me a blow by blow verbal accounting of the story.
The ending has haunted me for years.She had found it in a pile of discarded paperbacks at the laundromat.
I asked to read the discarded pages but she said it was too terrible (probably so for a 12 year old), but I got the plot and story line from her comments.From other comments here, I think this would be a relevant, if trashy story of what slavery and life must have been like in the south at that time.

