https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76667.Wielding_a_Red_Sword
The only thing that kept me going was the connection to Orb.I am so curious about Orlene and Sning and hope to get some resolution on that front in number 5.
Amended review (1 star):The more I thought about it, the more I realized that I didn't really like this book and I don't want to read anymore of the series.
I read the synopses and some reviews for books 5, 6, and 7 and got the gist that it would be more of what I haven't liked in the first 4.
Apparently there is no 2.As usual, the book opens with a lengthy analysis of how attractive the protagonist is to women of all kids.
However, she turns out to be nothing more than a minor plot device and promptly disappears offscreen so she can be the longed-for Lost Love for a chapter or two, until...Mym gets shipped off to the Honeymoon Castle at the behest of his father (who murders women callously to prove a point, namely, that women are worthless interchangeable tokens and the fact that Mym feels bad about this is Weak and Unmanly.) Now, the Honeymoon Castle is actually an interesting device - it's set up so that a) people residing there can hear each other's thoughts and b) they are forced to interact to eat, sleep, or bathe, presumably so proximity will make them fall in love.
Characters are slightly more developed here than in other books, but this one reeks with racism (unfair, one-dimensional stereotypes of Indians), sexism (woman's suffrage is taught to the poor, backwards Indian woman by a demon of hell, the only women worth Mym's time are pure virgins, Mym outright talks about the whole 'men are allowed to sleep with many women, but women should know only one man' and is cheered on for it) and is a continuation of the elitist, white male fantasy present in the rest of this series.
I need more books in my life whose titles begin with a gerund. Those were the days.
After the series improved a bit with the third installment, I had hopes for subsequent books, but after slogging through this I am turning my back on Piers Anthony and the rest of his "Incarnations of Immortality" series.
The characterizations are thin and too often stereotypical, the dialogue is usually stilted and unnatural, and the "philosophy" behind the Incarnations isn't all that thought-provoking (in part, I suspect, because Anthony didn't put a whole lot of research into his world-building).
Here are some questions that irked me as I read:- How could there possibly be "oriental" religions and myths in a world controlled by the literal incarnations of "occidental" ideas like God and Satan?
Father decides on a different political alliance, different princess.
In berserker rage, Mym takes office of War. He faces zombies, Death Squads p 146, magic, technology, but always tries to minimize suffering and pain, against sidekicks Famine, Pestilence, Plague.
Satan sends demoness Lila (first of her kind) to divert Rapture away.
(view spoiler)[ Political criticism is clear when Mym and distracting "décolletage" p 66 of Rapture negotiate diplomatically between "Uncle Vinegar to the North" p 66 and "President of Uncle-Sugar-land" p 67 in Washington to the West.
Nature guards her home with puzzle obstacles, gathers his tears to stop gene-splicing virus p 191.
A compelling collaboration between real life and fantasy.: This, the fourth book in the Incarnations Of Immortality series, has to be the most compelling.
Mym befriends, and falls in love with, a young and beautiful musician called Orb, with whome we met as a child in the previous Incarnations book "With A Tangled Skein".
Mym eventually, after some rebellion, falls in love with the princess Rapture who his father chose to be his arranged bride.
The book is excellently written, and is a fantastic collaboration between real life and fantasy/fiction, bringing home the realities of life and humanity.
This is about War, who was known as Mym as a mortal.
War has to face the consequences of Satan's meddling and work against him - even though, as a Hindu Prince, Mym hadn't put much stock in religion anyway…although the Western Incarnations relate to Eastern gods and goddesses quite well.OOHHHH!!!
War goes to war against Satan.
I like War's phasing ability.
But he who accepts the first compromise has made a precedent, and it then becomes easier to accept the next, and the next, until at last Satan has after all won.” – page 267 (Luna)
Lots of icky sex, one sided flat female characters that are beautiful but breathtakingly stupid, but Mym's still a bit of a cool guy.Orb is my favorite character in the series (as dumb as she's written for huge chunks of her storyline throughout the series), so I like this book mostly for the Orb sections.
There's lots of racism/stereotypical garbage in the book to wade through, so as much as I do like this one, it still only gets a three star rating.
It's starting to get harder and harder to wade through the series.
Another wonderful addition to this series.It follows Mym, who is forced to leave a woman he loves in order to marry another woman; all in the name of what's best for his country.
Then after he falls in love with this second woman, it ends up that the only way he can stay with her and not be forced to marry another is to become Mars.
He then starts to tempt Mym by sweetening the pot, so to speak, while causing trouble between War and the other incarnations.One of the things that makes this book different and interesting is that the main character comes from a country that does not follow Judea-Christian beliefs.
This book lost some of the balance present in #3, and is merely getting 3 stars not because of the story itself but because I just didn't like it as much.
the main character Mym, as a woman, his views of women and their purpose is a tad offensive.
His nature is tempered by his first love, but becomes increasingly noticeable throughout the book.
It seems that his main motivation for doing things and the reason he falls into traps, comes down to the fact that he lost his first love and is sexually frustrated and craves companionship.
It's been ages since I read On a Pale Horse and though the details are hazy, I remember enjoying it.
I haven't read any of the other Incarnation books, and now I doubt that I will, unless the sadistic quiz-master continues to foist them upon the also-rans.
While Pale Horse's treatment of the incarnation of death seemed an inventive fictive syncretism, combining disparate elements into a new and interesting modern mythology, this account of the lives and loves of the incarnation of war left me unpacified.
Like war.
I recently heard a fascinating "This American Life" segment that tangentially involved Piers Anthony. It piqued my curiosity so I randomly selected this novel from my library. The book was published in 1986 and by today's standards would be considered YA. I viewed the plot as Anthony placing some Reagan-era foreign policy hot spots against a standard fantasy tale with swords, apparitions and nymphs. If I read this when I was 15 I would have thought it was awesome; so you can say gaining context is both a blessing and a curse.
not as good as the first three...
on a pale horse being the best.and while i know i'm not his target audience, per se, putting female virginity on such a high pedestal is getting old.
i noticed it from the beginning, but this one really pushed it past endurance.
the only female of significance who's had sex before finding her 'one true partner' is a demoness.
of course.
the evil seductress who refuses to be shy for impure concubine, the virgin maiden in a tower for princess.
maybe my infatuation with the series is simply failing, but the characters seemed rather empty.
This series was delightful. Not only were the characters well rounded, but the story lines made me think in new ways. I completely enjoyed the author's views! I also was amazed that each book stood alone so well and were all designed so they could be read in any order with no loss of ideas or integrity to the story. I have always had difficulty with understanding war ... the ideas and concepts in this book aided more than any history or ethics class.
I liked the irony in this one; the book spends more time on love than anything else, and learning how to function in his office is almost incidental. And when it's not love, it's a continuous seduction attempt by a concubine. Fun, fun! It's also cool that Mars is a Hindu, and is thrown into this "Heaven or Hell" mentality when he's more into the Reincarnation idea.
Fourth in the Incarnations of Immortality series,I found this story great if, for no other reason, the Incarnation of War, Mars, actually realizing his romantic interest in the end. George Guidall, as in the previous stories, does an awesome job as narrator and really brings the story to life!! 7 out of 10 on this one for me.
Not a bad read. Wonder what Anthony thinks of war???? Anyway, I found the "Incarnations of Immortality" series to (as you may be used to me saying if you've read many of my reviews) run hot and cold. I burned out on them fairly quickly.
Fabulous series.
Love the whole series
Piers Anthony holds the same place in my heart held by cheap paperback Star Wars novelists.
A fan wrote and thanked Anthony for his novels, because they helped ease the boredom of a long convalescence.
And there you have it: Piers Anthony's novels are diverting, and that's far from a bad thing...This novel takes absurdly full license with the genre of fantasy, changing absolutely anything to get to anything else, if it suits the plot (or just for fun).
I'm glad to know what Piers Anthony is (was) up to.
Add to that the fact that Anthony is obviously writing about a religion and a culture that he really doesn't understand, his depiction of Mym and his life coming off as insensitive at best and racist at worst, and you start to wonder why the hell Anthony thought it was a good idea to make his main character Indian in the first place.
Apparently, the answer is at least twice in every scene she's in.As far as the idea portion of the novel, Mym becomes the Incarnation of War, and much like On a Pale Horse, the middle third of the novel is a series of scenes showing War, or Mars, at work, supervising battles and violence.
These have been the most interesting books from Piers I have read.
In this book we follow War. War is new to his job and Satan tests him relentlessly.
This is something Piers does in all of his books I have read.
Satan offers him a women, he rejects her as she is a trap, so instead demoness spends time with his wife; who then learns about feminism and leaves him as she will no longer devote herself to him or accept his new job as War. Its devious because its a solid reason for them breaking up and leads into more plots.
(I read this book several weeks ago, so start / finish dates are approximate.)I've read a decent chunk of Anthony's output over the years: three Cthon novels, maybe three-fourths of all the Xanth novels, and one other Incarnations of Immortality novel.
The protagonist's biggest foe, much of the time, is himself: his self-doubt, his second-guessing, his unwillingness to fully embrace his new cosmic role.
That's Piers Anthony for you.
It seems as though Piers brings new characters into being with each installment, and they all play some role in the subsequent volumes.
A good continuation of an interesting series.
The best part of this book is the way it interweaves with the previous three books.
It would be best to not let too much time pass between the readings of the books.
There are a great many characters that interweave in and out of each other's stories.
The stories stand alone, but that interaction creates a nice level of intrest in the book.
The Book of Rings is an important element and the book from a plot point but is not really touched on in more than a cursoury manor.
Good book.
This book spent more time focusing on the perils of Mars' lovelife than it did on the actual job of Mars.
War was the one job that had been mostly a mystery up until now and it remains as such.
Only two battles were supervised and the most we learned was that Mars has 4 sub-aspects that apparently do stuff and that he can phase into people.
This Mars is apparently incompetent though.
All off the incarnations, War seemed to be the least thought out and unfortunately the most boring of books.
I just cannot get excited about this title, probably for two reasons.
1) I suspect Anthony gave it a noble effort but still had trouble rationalizing the necessity of war and 2) I don't really agree with his rationalization.
However, the human who was the incarnation of Mars was a great character!
It also was fun seeing the perspective from a Hindu point of view.
Besides, the way Mars got into Hell itself and made a crisis for Satan was lots of fun!
So Ultimately, I'd say this was a 3.5, rounding down instead of up as in "For Love of Evil".
Another good oneI do enjoy this series greatly. The Authors note at the end is always interesting, it seems Piers Anthony has/a very interesting home life. I loved the part about the computer system, it's so outdated as to be hilarious. This book series seems fresh and contemporary, and then the author note hits you with a blast from the past (indeed, I was too young to read when this book was written, and I have a reading aged child) I will be reading the entire series, so stay posted for the next review
read this a while back, can't remember exactly when. As I recall, I read it as a stand alone and had no issue in doing so, it was pretty self contained. Didn't realize Piers Anthony was the writer. It's... 'better?' than his Xanth series I guess, but it's still got all the annoying Piers Anthony tropes, but the lack of the obnoxious puns helps a lot. Not that I'd recommend this, there are too many good books out there to waist on low tier writing like this.
This one was just a little too sexually-frustrated-teenage-boy-understanding-of-sex-and-relationships for me. Kind of like American Pie or Seinfeld, I want to continue liking it and give the writer the benefit of the doubt, but the perspective, regardless of intent, doesn't translate well for a contemporary audience.And it's kinda rapey.
