https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/144355.Sceptical_Essays
This book has been sitting on my shelves of years, LITERALLY,and I never even considered reading it until NOW-The wonders of what goodreads can make you read.Also,What my grandfather said. To my Nano. *___*
Preface to the Routledge Classics Edition--Introduction: On the Value of Scepticism--Dreams and Facts--Is Science Superstitious?--Can Men be Rational?--Philosophy in the Twentieth Century--Machines and the Emotions--Behaviourism and Values--Eastern and Western Ideals of Happiness--The Harm that Good Men Do--The Recrudescence of Puritanism--The Need for Political Scepticism--Free Thought and Official Propaganda--Freedom in Society--Freedom Versus Authority in Education--Psychology and Politics--The Danger of Creed Wars--Some Prospects: Cheerful and OtherwiseIndex
In this book, Russell nearly refers to every system in human life: economy, politics, education, parenthood, marriage, health, management..
and talks about shortages in these systems and relates them to unexamined beliefs and lack of rational thinking.
Why we raise our children by not considering their innate needs, why we struggle more to learn about structure of atom instead learning more about human nature?
Russell stresses upon the shortages of educational system and as long as it considers a thorough analysis of human nature, he underlines education as a main solution of every system in human life both for national and international aspect.
A rationalist book for thinking and change Being rational here means to rely on reason to form an idea, not on blind faith or prejudice.Russell does state that the forces of irrationality are much more stronger especially in religion and politics.
They are promoted by propaganda, corrupt education system and traditions etc.
While the bad men who fight govt tyranny, religious manipulation etc are considered heretic and punished like Socrates, galileo etc.He definitely prefers an education where different opinions are weighed, judged freely without any fear of law, losing livelihood and repression.
Through reason along with a kind, generous outlook we can do away with a lot of narrow-mindedness, hatred etc from the present world.
Filozofların hiç biriyle anlaşamam, mevcut felsefe dilinin kendini okutmakta büyük problemleri olduğunu düşünürüm.
Ancak Russell bu kitapta bu problemi aşmış; açık ve sade bir üslupla arzuhalini başarıyla anlatabilmiş.
Kitabı tek bir parantezde incelemek doğru olmaz, muhteviyatında birçok farklı konuya ev sahipliği yapıyor.
Kitabı okurken kendinizi bilgeliği sesinden anlaşılan bir hatibin konferansında gibi hissediyorsunuz ve ben iki gün boyu dinlediğim bu konferanstan çok haz aldım.
Özellikle "iyi insan-kötü insan" ayrımı çok başarılıydı.
Nihayetinde; yazara kimi zaman katıldım, kimi zaman ters düştüm ancak her iki durumda da güzel vakit geçirdim.
Hassaten benim gibi felsefe ile yıldızı barışmayanların "Hah, işte şöyle anlat canımızı ye" diyebileceği bir kitap.
I have read a lot of Bertrand Russell, and other than some references to his contemporaries, his work, particularly the autobiography and history of Western Philosophy, stand the test of time.
Skeptical Essays was written in 1928, and is very much of the period.
Essays on the dangers of Puritanism refer mostly to the restriction of information on Birth Control.
Russell is sympathetic throughout, and I left with the impression that, had I been living and reading in 1928, I would have rated this collection much more highly, as it is, I found it interesting as an artifact, but a bit of a slog otherwise.
Bu kitap hakkında tek bir cümle söyleme hakkım olsaydı isminin hakkını veren bir kitap olduğunu söylemekle yetinebilirdim.
Ama böyle bir sınırlandırma yokken birkaç cümle daha ekleyeyim.
Kitabı oldukça başarılı bulduğumu söyleyebilirim çünkü ilk cümlemde de dikkat çektiğim üzere kitap bizi düşünmeye sevk ediyor.
Yazarın hemen her konuda dikkate değer gözlemleri var bu nedenle siz de okurken fikirleri anlayabilmek adına biraz yoruluyorsunuz.
Öyle ki bu durum kitabı yer yer okunması zor ya da sıkıcı bir hale de getirebiliyor.
Kitabı okurken sürekli uyanık olmalısınız.
Bu bölümle beraber kitap bittiğinde yazara saygım oldukça arttı ve hemen diğer kitaplarını da araştırmaya başladım.
While recently on holiday in a lovely cottage, up in Northumberland, I came across this book in the owners book shelf.
Not my usual read or genre of book, but something appealed.And bizarrely once I started reading, I couldn't put it down, and now I'm gripped, motivated into reading other thought provoking, philosophical and challenging books.
Recommendations welcome as this layman looks to open his mind etc.However I'm a tad apprehensive to write too much of a review, as new to this subject matter.
Dönemine göre çarpıcı diyorum, çünkü o dönemlerde İngiltere dahil hemen hemen bütün dünya ülkeleri kendi ideolojileri ve ekonomik sistemlerinin propagandasını içeren eğitim öğretimleriyle halklarının beynini yıkamakta, diğer uluslara düşman bireyler yetiştirmekteymiş.
Ama bizim gibi Batı'nın ahlaksızlığını iphone'nun yeni sürümü için Apple Store'da sıra bekleyen vatandaş gibi anında alırken, tekniğini, ilerlemesini, düşüncesini 50-100 sene geriden takip eden milletlerde Russell'in anlattığı ürkütücü düşünce iklimi ve militarist eğitim sistemi aynen güncelliğini koruyor.İşte bu ahval şeraitte Russell iki çözümle geliyor: 1-Doğruluğu yönünde yeterince kanıt bulunmayan hiçbir şeye hemen inanmayın.
Bugün aynen insan kadar iyi çeviri yapan internet sitelerimiz, bizim gibi konuşan, hisseden robotlarımız var ama hala kendimizi o kadar tanıyamıyoruz (kamu spotu).
Sin embargo los consejos que nos da Russell se revelan los mejores para analizar también lo que piensa el propio Russell sobre los asuntos concretos, como buenas herramientas que son.Si queremos vivir en un mundo cada vez más globalizado e interconectado donde una organización es cada vez más necesaria necesitaremos no solo de esa cierta tolerancia de la que habla Russell (y habría que pensar qué significa esa tolerancia) sino también de un racionalismo bien educado.
Y el universalismo es algo que hay que seguir defendiendo, que no solo es esencial en el conocimiento sino que además no parece que haya otra vía para abandonar de forma efectiva los errores hacia mejores formas, métodos e ideas.
Well said Bertrand:"Rasyonel bir kuşkuculuğun yayılmasının etkileri ne olabilir?
Insanoğlu ile ilgili olaylar güçlütutkulardan kaynaklanır; bu da onları destekleyen birtakım mitlerin doğmasına yol açar.Psikanalizciler bu sürecin kişisel görünümünü, vesikalı ve vesikasız deliler üzerindeincelemişlerdir.Bazı aşağılamalara maruz kalmış bir kişi kendisinin Ingiltere Kralı olduğu yolunda birkuram benimser ve kendisine bu yüce konumunun gerektirdiği saygı ile davranılmamasınımazur göstermek için de zekice işlenmiş birsürü açıklama icadeder.
Bu örnekte, komşularıonun bu hayallerine sıcak bakmazlar ve kendisini bir tımarhaneye kapatırlar.
Bu yolla, kişisel deliliklebenzer kuralları izleyen bir toplumsal delilik gelişir.
Kendini Ingiltere Kralı sanan bir deli iletartışmanın tehlikeli olduğunu herkes bilir; fakat tek başına olduğu için onun hakkındangelinebilir.
There are 'perilous seas' in the world of thought, which can only be sailed by those that are willing to face their own physical powerlessness.
No man is liberated from fear who dare not see his place in the world as it is; no man can achieve the greatness of which he is capable until he has allowed himself to see his own littleness.''  ''[...] In science, where we approach nearest to real knowledge, a man can rely on the strength of his case, whereas, where nothing is known, blatant assertion and hypnotism are the usual ways of causing others to share our beliefs.
"Sıradan kişilerin kendi başlarına düşünmeleri istenmez; çünkü düşünen insanları yönetmek güçtür; yönetimde sorunlar çıkarırlar. Platon'un deyişiyle, yalnız yöneticiler düşünmeli, geri kalanlar sadece itaat etmeli, koyun sürüsü gibi liderlerini izlemelidirler." biçiminde tespitler içeren, okurken öğreten kitaplardan. Sevdim ben.
Russell'ın en çok sevdiğim ve en okunası, eğlenceli kitabıdır. Felsefeyle ilgilenmenize gerek yok anlamak için, çok sade, anlaşılır bir dille anlatmış. Russell'la çelişirsiniz, katılmazsınız, yanlış bulursunuz ama kızamazsınız. Eğlenceli insan vesselam.
A little dense, not for everyone, but great reading for anyone happy to question accepted beliefs and thinking.
'Doğru olduğuna dair herhangi bir kanıt bulunmayan bir önermeye inanmak sakıncalıdır'Parça parça bilinen şeyler guzelce toparlanıp yapıcı ve büyük fikirler verilmiş.Yazarın hem rasyonalist hem de kuşkucu olmasını eleştiren kesime de anlam veremedim iki felsefeyi mantıklı bir sekilde birleştirmiş.
Etkilendiğim bir bölüm olarak da şunu not düşeceğim; -her yerde demokrasinin, zenginlerin çıkarlarını geliştirecek şekilde eğitim yapılmasına yol açtığını gözlüyorum.
Öğretmenler komünist diye isten atılıyorlar, ama tutucu olduğu için isten atılan yok.
Bunun yakın zamanda değişeceğini varsaymak için hiçbir neden de göremiyorum.
Bu nedenle eğer uygarlığımız daha uzun süre zenginlerin çıkarlarını kollamayi sürdürürse kanımca sonu karanlık olacaktır.
Uygarlığın çöküşünü istemediğim içindir ki bir sosyalist oldum.
söyleşi bölümü daha güzeldi
Bertrand Russell'ın siyaset, felsefe, toplum ve din üzerine her zaman geçerliliğini koruyacak tespitlerini içeren bir başucu eseri.
Bazı noktalarda anlatım ağırlaşıyor. Fakat genel hatlarıyla sevdim.
That being said there were some beliefs in the book that I did not agree to at all but that does not mean in any way that Russell does not give rational reasons to back them up.The book is full of strange anthropological studies from Polyandry in Tibet, where a wife would have many husbands since men were too poor to support a whole wife to housing shortage situation in Moscow where an un-married pregnant woman would have many contenders for the legal right to be considered the child's father because who ever she would choose would acquire the right to share the woman's room and as Russell comments "half a room is better than no roof".The book is full of very interesting anecdotes which I found very humorous and some deep philosophical studies which were thought-provoking.One of the interesting anecdotes mentioned is that of a prophetess who lived beside a lake in Northern New York in 1820 who had announced to her followers that she possessed the power to walk on water.
Russell was writing in the 1920’s, by then a committed pacifist and ‘international socialist’, obviously profoundly influenced by the social, political and humanitarian consequences of the First World War. I guess the reader can take or leave the substance of his views on politics and moral issues, and some of the cross-cultural discussion here is jarring (it’s really not clear to me where ‘the Negro’ fits into Russell’s early twentieth century world view, for example), but that central theme of sceptical thought is hugely important, particularly in this wrinkled, deceptive, post-modern world in which we live.
This was the first major philosophical work I've read of Bertrand Russell.
His philosophy of skepticism really shapes my own personal philosophy in life and I found myself agreeing with a lot of what Russell had to say.
Granted Russell's political predictions said more about his time than the future but the important thing is that he had reasoning behind any of his predictions regarding future changes in politics.I enjoyed his views on philosophy more than politics.
Definitely worth a read if you are interested in Russell or in philosophy in general.
Russell writes accessibly and often wittily.
As philosophy goes, he is probably the most readable of all.
It includes some important insights, but is not as education-dense as his magisterial History of Western Philosophy.
It is interesting to consider that he wrote at a time when the profession of atheism was still technically illegal under UK law.Russell is not merely philosophising but committing advocacy - of scepticism and of rationalism.
Of particular interest are his sceptical principles, which he advocates that all men adopt, and his consideration of Bentham's consequentialism, all delivered with the customary wit.
I read the first ten essays of Peter Medawar's personal copy up as until that point the essays were not heavily involved with (slightly outdated) political philosophy.
On losing my way in 'the need for political scepticism' I ended it here.
That being said, highly readable and reasonable, I would recommend it to anyone interested in an easy introduction to a rational attempt at ethical philosophy, Russell always starts brilliantly as his words are clear and definitions logical, but it gets a bit frustrating when he doesn't move beyond basic definitions.
I was expecting more scientific epistemological scepticism involved but this is largely scepticism of socioeconomic/historical/political trends.
Bertrand was a logician, and a key component of logic is the questioning of credibility and plausibility: in other words, scepticism.
Russell does not exclude science, and has nothing against questioning human happiness.In the same vain as In Praise of Idleness, Russell tackles questions that most of wouldn't think of in the first place.
His point is that the beauty of scepticism is that it digs out new and sometimes more interesting questions.
If idleness brings us closer to understanding the importance of knowledge for its own sake, scepticism brings us closer to understanding that our certainties are not much more than superstitions, and our superstitions are not much better than empty-headed pipe dreams.
You owe it to your brain to occasionally read a book that makes you think hard about ideas you do not usually think hard about.
These essays argue for skepticism about many things, though, not surprisingly, religion is mentioned, but much of what is here considers political philosophy.
Even if you basically agree with Russell, he will make you think about the reasons you hold similar conclusions, and your reasons for holding them will probably be better reasons after you read this book.
I admit that much of my philosophy grows from skepticism, but that does not mean that the book is not challenging.
Interesting enough - and yet, most of the essays were a little boring and anodyne.
Still, I'm sure they were somewhat more radical and original in the 1920's, when they were originally written.
Someone once said to me "Russell is a marvelously clear and easily understood philosopher, but if only he were as good a philosopher as he is a lucid one," - and I heartily agree.
That being said!
This is the first book I've read by Russell and I do believe I will encounter more gripping and challenging texts from him.
These essays were probably written for a more general readership.
This is a rather mixed collection of essays from Russell. There isn't one theme that warrants collecting these essays in to a book. This book contain essays where Russell argues for his idea of an international government. The first nine essays are highly recommended. The rest, while being interesting in itself, will appeal more to a political person. Overall, a nice book.
Though the later essays I found quite a bore, that is simply because I'm helplessly apathetic about political philosophy, around which much of this book revolves. Ne'ertheless, many of the earlier essays are quite enthralling, with very intriguing ideas (albeit the context of his examples can be quite dated, seeing as how much of the book was written between WWI and WWII).
I read the 1960 printing from my library. Russell has a great sense of humor, and his ideas will stretch your mind. I now see why he is one of Warren Buffett's favorite authors. I will likely need to read this book again for deeper understanding.
