https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/235718.Succubus_Blues
The issues I have will probably sound like hate spam and I apologize for that because I really don’t want to offend anyone but I feel like someone has to point these things out, so here goes… The first question I asked myself was this: Does everyone hit on Georgina?
You hate getting hit on all the time yet get pissed when people don’t throw themselves at you, you constantly second guess yourself and everyone around you, you can’t make up your mind and you let a thousand year old DEAD relationship dictate almost every move you make.
4.5 stars “Love is rarely flawless,” Carter pointed out. “Humans delude themselves by thinking it has to be. It is the imperfection that makes love perfect.”
The story kicks when an immortal powerful vampire is mysteriously and unexpectedly killed after having an argument with our main character, Georgina.
And so, Georgina, angel Carter, demon Jerome and some others are willing to resolve the murder and find the criminal.Now, the fact that angels, demons and vampires acknowledge each other's existence and live in ''harmony'' without contantly wanting to kill each other out is new to me.
There aren't actually many supernatural creatures in the town Georgina is living, as you may think, so I hope there will be more in the sequels that I'm eager to read.The only type of paranormal creature in Succubus Blues that I felt weren't convincing at all are the vampires.
This book is (choose all that apply):a) Boring as fish.b) Wondrously crappy.c) Exquisitely decaf, diet, GMO and gluten-free.d) Flat as my now infamous herd of ironing boards.e) A safe haven for severely misunderstood drama llamas.f) So PG-13 it reads like a Seizure-Inducing Paranormal Chick Lit Type Thingie (SIPCLTT™).g) ALL of the above.h) ALL of the above².Quite logically, a+b+c+d+e+f+g+h = me feeling a teensy little bit like this:Gif most generously provided by Sarchotic Industries, LtdHad this delightfully scrumptious masterpiece simply been a Lame-A-Saurus endeavor and nothing more, I probably would have gone for a stellar 2-star rating.
The characters were fresh, original in some regards and likable.The great "reveal" was painfully easy to guess and I had suspected it from the beginning, but I feel that the writing style and characters made up for this lack.The character of Georgina Kincaid is on the list for one of the more likable female protagonists so far.
How many times can you have sex a day before you start walking crooked?) But I think Georgina Kincaid allows for the reality (if you could say there was such a thing) of being a succubus.
In all fairness, I had read some really good urban fantasy books right before this one so I was coming off a huge UF high when I picked this up.
All of these supernatural characters (an angel, an imp, a demon, and some vampires) meet to chat with Georgina and drink beer at her house, seemingly everyday.
When supernaturals start dying, all of the supernatural friends of Georgina kind of sit there with their thumbs in their mouths and wait to see what would happen next.
The whole reason that Georgina attempted detective work was that the more powerful supernaturals decided to keep some information from her.
I was eager to start it, I found it a little tough to get into though, I struggled (with convincing myself to keep going) midway through, but at the end everything started happening really fast and suddenly I was finished it lolI read this book on several glowing recommendations from trusted readers who compared it to the Fever and Night Huntress series (both of which are among my fav PNR/UFs so I was pretty excited to start it.
I felt pretty 'feelingless' throughout most of it despite the fact that I definitely wanted to know what happened.
Side-characters are mixed joys since the author isn't the love interest I thought from the first, the man she's dating turns out fun and three-dimensional (you don't want anything happening to him), the boss is sleazy but well-written, and the other paranormals stand out as authentic enough even if you want to strangle some of the more powerful ones half the time.Georgina working in the bookstore and enjoying books so much is a big plus.
I liked this book a lot more than I imagined I would.
I'm not really a hardcore urban fantasy fan, I much prefer series like this with the softer, chick-lit style writing complete with witty dialogue and hot immortal men.
Georgina Kincaid is a very likeable heroine, not a pretentious do-gooder but nice enough that you care about what happens to her.This first novel in the series is full of steamy sex, hilariously quotable writing and a supernatural mystery to form the background plot.
My main criticism would be I suspected the outcome of the nephilim murder mystery about halfway through the book...
Or I simply liked them because this series was one of my first encounters with fresh then genre of urban fantasy?Good news, Succubus Blues is still great entertainment second time around.
She is the character with a lot of room for improvement ((view spoiler)[she could start with not choosing sex over EVERYTHING of importance in her life - friends, lovers, loyalties, integrity (hide spoiler)]).
(view spoiler)[both Georgina and Seth suck in a major way by book 5.
I already feel (view spoiler)[hate towards them both (hide spoiler)] coming back to me...How will this series end?
She is flawed and that makes her more real.Seth, although completely outside of the guys I would normally found attractive, is also great; sweet and kind, he is a character that grows in each book, he is loyal, authentic and loves with his all being.
He is mundane and so real that he is the perfect juxtaposition to Georgina.These books are full of adventure and fun characters, but to me, what really makes them so special is that the love story here is not just your typical romance.
READ IT!P.S.: By now, I have lost count of how many times I have read/listen to the audiobooks of this series.
Since she is such a sadistic person she goes for Succubus Blues, another book she was sure she will hate.
Anzu lies in bed and starts the book.
Only six pages pass and the trouble starts.“What the hell just happened???” She is confused.
Nothing seems to please her.“What the hell is wrong with this chick???” She screams at the walls.
“What the hell is wrong with you??” Anzu is still screaming at the book.
Why does she have to ruin the book with this shit??!” Still no answer comes from the book.The more Anzu reads the more she mentions this person named Richelle Mead.
Sometimes you wake up from a dream. Sometimes you wake up in a dream. And sometimes, every once in while, you wake up in someone else's dream.    1.21.14 BUDDY RE-READ WITH ROBIN, BAILEY AND TANDIE I almost want to up-rate this to a 5. So very different the second time around. The palpable silences, the knowing looks passed between Carter and Jerome, Carter's odd, quizzical looks at Georgie, Jerome's pregnant pauses... The book in itself was predictable the first time around, but once you've k
The book in itself was predictable the first time around, but once you've known these characters to the end, when you revisit the beginning, the experience just becomes so much different, much more enriched.Like a tree that keeps on giving.And it hasn't even been a year since I last read this one.
This one's entertainment factor was further buoyed up by an easy to follow plot and a set of supporting characters with their own adorable quirks and quote-worthy moments.
Even though I enjoyed SB the first time and did consider it to be about a 3 to 3.5, I enjoyed it much more the second time around after knowing the series and characters better (and was able to skim the world building trap of book 1).
The amount of races and characters in the book sort of threw me a bit, as well as Georgie's profession, but I adjusted after a while and got into the swing of things.The concept is interesting, and this might be (as far as I can remember) my first ever read with a succubus as a main character.
He seems like the shy, awkward type, but that man sure does have something to hide.
This is a book I added back when I first joined GRs. I had read it at a time when I was just getting into paranormal romance and urban fantasy.
I had not read anything else by Richelle Mead.
I won't recap it because you can get that info anywhere.
You aren't getting anything new here.If you are new to PNR, you might like it.
I've read Mead's Vampire Academy and Bloodlines series and those were decent.
So, I never picked it up again and probably won't.
However, I think they are on sale, so if you're into paranormal chick-lit/romance, you might like this.
SEX ANYONE?Well, you're in luck.Oodles of it in these books. But aside from all the glorious filth, there is also much laughter to be had with this series.Once again we are introduced to another of Richelle Meads' baddass heroines, Georgina. Who manages to rid the city of various demons, evils, etc. whilst maintaining an equally baddass sex life.[image error]I ask you. What more do we need?
In order to survive she gets the life force out of humans that she’s having sex with, but being a Succubus with a conscience she only does the low lives, hating the idea of damning the souls of good men.
I get it, she’s lonely, she is attracted to him and even though her mind tells her that she must avoid him, she longs for a relationship.
Even if you suspect who the villain is, it unfolds nicely through Mead's writing but, for the life of me, I can't understand why everyone was trying to keep Georgina in the dark.
It's these kinds of books that make me wish Goodreads let me do half star ratings.This was just ok.
I actually found myself very bored during it.
Also, what the hell, how misleading was that synopsis?My favorite character was Seth.
He's the only reason why I struggled with the rating because every scene he was in I was like "YAY!
SETH!" and then when he would leave, I was bored.
I skimmed the last 10%.The climax was extremely anti-climatic.I did like Georgina's flashback scenes - as few as they were.
They seldomly do, because all these books are the same to me: Hot heroine with at least one guy on every finger.
(I blame this on Anita Blake, who I liked, at first, but after a while I got so bored with her books and, I'm glad I did because, apparently, I stopped reading before the completely messed up books came.)But back to the sassy heroine: this book was absolutely no different, yet I got sucked in (no pun intended) immediately.
Some parts of the book were hilarious (the first conversation between G and Seth, for example).
Finding a guy like that...
The first book introducing readers to the world of Georgina Kincaid is just good old fashioned urban fantasy fun.
Rarely in urban fantasy books penned by women is the male character who is in the running to get the girl a non alpha type of guy ( I tried to come up with an example to counter my statement, but I can’t – the only one is Adrian in Vampire Academy, but that is written by Mead – any others I have missed or forgotten?).
[4.5 Stars]Absolutely loved this! I predicted the twist really early on, but that didn't hinder my experience in any way. Can't wait to read the sequel!
Absolut superba!
I think I must have bought it in a kindle daily deal many moons ago.
I was just about to remove it to the cloud from my kindle and I thought I’d give it another shot.
I love Georgina and her crowd of friends.
I love that there is romance and hope in a book about a succubus.
I loved the world.
I’ve already bought the next in the series.
I’ve tried and mostly failed with a few of this author’s more recent works, so I’m pleased to find something of hers to really enjoy.
I was expecting a vapid "hi, I have a lot of sex, watch me boink all these men" kind of story.
Based on the cover, I really wasn't expecting much.
But it went well.I suppose some people might say that the writing wasn't as strong as it could be, but I don't think that it was poorly written, nor did it hinder the excellent story.
there's some smut in this book, but it wasn't overly smutty.
For a book about a succubus, one would have expected a lot more sex, but I think that I could count the scenes on one hand)
It was ok...not sure if I'll be continuing with the series.
Leave it to Richelle Mead to change all that and have this sensational masterpiece hit my favorites shelf!I don't know how Mead does it, like the first VA book it was a slow go in the beginning and this one was the same way for me, but then out of know where your hooked to ever word, every character and it was impossible to put down.I really should have had more faith.Georgina is definitely my kind of gal.
I find it utterly adorable when it comes to her love of books and her logic while reading them.
Actual Rating: 3.5/5 stars  “We all have moments of weakness. It’s how we recover from them that really counts.”  Georgina did something terrible in her life that she made a deal with the devil to be a succubus in order for the people she wronged to forget about her. And they did. Their memories was totally wiped out.I don't know what is a succubus though. So I went on Google to search what a succubus was and they are like immortal, evil creatures who seduces men in their sleep to absorve energi
Georgina did something terrible in her life that she made a deal with the devil to be a succubus in order for the people she wronged to forget about her.
So I went on Google to search what a succubus was and they are like immortal, evil creatures who seduces men in their sleep to absorve energies or something.
Succubus sucked the life out of their victims.
Also, Georgina likes books.
I have to since they don't come out that often.” But Georgina wasn't happy about being a succubus.
Of course, these acts were in a succubus nature so yeah I guess I'm saying is that don't be too shocked about those things.
Look, Georgina, it's nothing personal... Really. It's not you, it's me... Haha, just kidding! It's you. You suck. DNF at 25%. Bye!
She called Roman but he did not pick she left lots of messages for him, he later came to her house in the evening, during their conversation he let a slip out and used the exact words that was in the note and she realized that he is the Nephilim causing the chaos but he denied beating her up, said his sister did it, he told her to go away with him and she accepted only if he wouldn’t kill Carter, he refused at first but finally accepted but then she had already called for help.
Onto the review - I re-read this one day and completely lost track of time because Richelle Mead's writing style is just perfect for me.
It's interesting to see their comparisons, and it's impossible not to love Seth's geeky, timid character as he watches the confident succubus from afar.
In a 6 book series I can't touch on them all, but of course Seth is the real hero.
It's a gorgeous writing from Richelle and shows just how invested I am in her characters.
It's a fantastic mystery that keeps you page-turning right until the very end.
