https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13514.The_Fairy_Tales_of_Hermann_Hesse
22 Stories: "The Dwarf", 1904; "Shadow Play", 1906; "A Man by the Name of Ziegler", 1908; "The City", 1910; "Dr. Knoegle’s End", 1910; "The Beautiful Dream", 1912; "The Three Linden Trees", 1912; "Augustus", 1913; "The Poet", 1913; "Flute Dream", 1914; "A Dream About the Gods", 1914; "Strange News from Another Planet", 1915; "Faldum", 1916; "A Dream Sequence", 1916; "The Forest Dweller", 1917; "The Difficult Path", 1917; "If the War Continues", 1917; "The European", 1918; "The Empire", 1918; "The Painter", 1918; "The Fairy Tale About the Wicker Chair", 1918; "Iris", 1918.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز چهاردهم ماه نوامبر سال 2006 میلادیعنوان: گورزاد و دیگر قصه ها؛ نویسنده: هرمان هسه؛ مترجم: سروش حبیبی؛ تهران، ققنوس، 1375؛ در 247 ص؛ شابک: 9643116166؛ چاپ دوم 1386؛ شابک: 9789643116163؛ موضوع: داستانهای کوتاه نویسندگان به زبان آلمانی - سده 20 مدر این کتاب چهارده قصه گرد هم آمده اند.
Οι «φανταστικές Ιστορίες» είναι μια συλλογή που περιλαμβάνει όλα τα παραμύθια του Χέρμαν Έσσε. Είκοσι «βαριές» και «ασήκωτες» ιστορίες.Οι τέχνες και ιδιαίτερα η λογοτεχνία επηρεάστηκαν από την έννοια του θανάτου καθώς προσεγγίζει με εύκολο και πιασάρικο τρόπο τη ματαιότητα της ζωής. Σε όλα χρειάζεται ένα μέτρο όμως. Στις σελίδες του βιβλίου υπάρχουν περισσότεροι νεκροί ακόμα και από την μάχη των Πλαταιών. Η λέξη «θάνατος» από την άλλη βρίσκεται σχεδόν σε κάθε σελίδα.Αν μου άρεσε στο σύνολό του; Μου άρεσε.Μου μαύρισε την ψυχούλα; Μου την μαύρισε.
This tale of love and revenge introduces a theme that will be found in several of the stories collected here ~ the persecution of an artistic sensibility.
★★★★☆“A Man by the Name of Ziegler” (1908) is a critique of Man. Like a fairy tale, it has magic and talking animals, but the magic is in the form of the pseudoscience of alchemy.
★★★★★“The Three Linden Trees” (1912) is a parable-like fairy tale about the loyalty and love between three brothers.
I like Hesse’s dream stories, but this is not among the best.
Like “The City,” it also takes the long view of history, this time observed by a mountain who was once a man.

It is a thick collection of fairy tales, all told as part of a wider story, in the time-honoured Arabian Nights fashion.
But the tales are all penned by Hesse himself.
In them he takes the reader on a fantastic journey where nothing is as it seems, but where a new reality exists, tantalisingly within the reach of the reader, a reality where the values that imbue fairy tales thrive.
Love, honour and courage, but also betrayal, death and loss.
Hesse has succeeded in capturing the essence of traditional European fairy tales, and using it to distill his own elixir.
I read one story from this collection of fairy tales each night before bed.
I keep waiting for them to infiltrate my dreams and maybe they do, but so far I have not remembered.
I do think about them though.
My favorite tale from the book is about wishes.
A stranger offers the people of a village each one wish.
How do you think that tale develops?
You kind of know because it's a story that we've all heard, right?
It has become part of our collective consciousness.
I learn by reading these tales, but I still don't know what I would wish for.
بديع، بديع..To be reviewed .
As it stands, however, I know only enough about the genre to say that Hesse's collection is traditional in the sense that they are not really written with Disney-fed children in mind, as these tales are mostly serious in theme and happy endings are often wanting.
Being less idealistic than I was when I first discovered his work as a teenager, I found these stories didn't impact me as much as some of the more subtle pieces, with the exception of the strangely moving "If The War Continues." In this surreal piece, a man bearing the same name as Hesse's main character from the novel Demian responds to the reduction of his society to a perpetual war state in the most sane and rational way one could possibly imagine.Recommended for fans of Hesse and the traditional fairy tale genre.
I had only read a few short stories by Hesse before picking up this book. Some of the stories are shocking. I want to know, for instance, what Hesse has aganist women and veganitarians. Honestly, really, what did vegans every do to him?Most of the stories are excellent. My only complaint is the ordering of the stories. Zipes put them in publication/written order, which makes sense. The drawback, however, is that you are reading one too many anti-war stories in a row. There are not bad, but it is a surfiet of riches.The best story, I think, was "The City".
Nice collection of tales, but not for children. They all have hidden meanings, some are ironical, some are bitter, others are nostalgic and so on.
وجدت وطني بين دفتي هذا الكتاب.
I wonder about the "fairy tales" aspect of the title, I think this is actually just a collection of short stories.
Some do have elements of fairly tales, but the form is unique.
It's a blend of the classic fairy tale format, more modern adaptations (think Gabriel Garcia Marquez), and Hesse's own philosophies.The book is filled with incredible stories, among my favorites are "The Dwarf" "The City""Agustus" "The Poet" and "The Forest Dweller." Some stories look at society as a whole, and others focus on the individual, showing Hesse's ability to examine both carefully.This is a fantastic collection of stories that showcase Hesse's deep quest for the truth and his ability to convey being "enraptured by all this beauty" in small, yet eloquent and brilliant doses.
Much can be learned from the ruminations of mountains....and everyone should write fairy tales for their time.
تحميل رواية الحكايات الخرافية لـ هرمان هيسه من هذا الرابطhttp://goo.gl/XO2Dfp
LOVED. Will write review in July 2014.
In order, the tales presented are "A Man By The Name Of Ziegler" (1908), "A Dream About The Gods" (1914), "Faldum" (1916), "The Poet" (1913) and "Flute Dream" (1914).
The rather deep plots of an alchemist's seed, regretted wishes, and the urge to craft a perfect poem (shades of Goldmund here), are all for rather mature minds and not as plain as the category "fairy tale" suggests.
These are more like long parables.It almost feels - as much as I like an admire Donovan's vocal gifts - that is cooing, monotone deliver may have negatively affected these stories.
I feel as I should read them or at least some of them myself some time.
Now in my 50's, I wasn't sure if Hesse's "fairy tales" would appeal to me but I took a chance.First, only two of the stories have anything close to fairies and Hans Christian Anderson or the Brothers Grimm might object to the title.
The short stories range from meditations on civilization to longer tales of lives spent in search of perfection in an art, be it poetry, songs or painting.
There are, of course, some morality tales with a definite Hesse flavor.
Now, these short stories are but a brief reminder of who I was and my exploration of philosophies outside of my Methodist upbringing.
Terminando esta serie de relatos, no es curioso que al leerlos me siento como leyendo un cuadro de arte, a comparación de sus novelas solo me encontré con Hermann Hesse en 3 o 4 relatos pienso que algunos al ser tan cortos le quitan el poder desarrollarse y dejarnos esos mensajes entre líneas . recomendable para quien ya ha leído otras de sus obras y quiere una lectura. rápida y amena con tintes de acuarela..
"Na minha pueril inteligência, tomava-a por indizivelmente tola, e, no fundo, ela era-o, mas era também uma pessoa feliz; por vezes tendo a considerar as pessoas felizes uma espécie de sábios à socapa, mesmo quando parecem tolos. Haverá afinal algo mais tolo, mais capaz de causar felicidade do que a esperteza?"
كتاب جميل وغريب وقصص اغربفيها من تستوعب المعنى والمغزى وفيها رغم متعتك تبقة حائرا ماذا يعني هنا او هناكاحببت الاغلب وبعضها لم احبها لانها...خلفت في نفسي طاقة سلبيةمتشوقة لاقرأ له سد هارتا
Fairy tales as a format is natural to Hesse's writing; the simple language and elements of whimsy provide a sense of calm wisdom typical of Hesse. I can say nothing else but to highly recommend reading these tales.
Excellent set of stories by Herman Hesse. Very different from the conventional fairy tales ; liked the sudden twists in the plots and quirky ends ( some almost macabre like Roald Dahl )
Have you ever wondered what a book would sound like?
I don't mean that literally; we've all heard of audiobooks, radio adaptations, or, at least, bedtime stories.
I mean what a book would sound like if it were music.
Take Gormenghast, for example.
Well, they're a little like Schubert's Winterreise - beautiful, highly polished, slightly alien, and covering the same ground in subtly different ways.
Maybe it's better to think of them as a bit second Viennese school, short pieces by Berg or Webern, clean-lined and unconventionally charming, or...
There are a few that are a bit E.
Translator/editor Jack Zipes has gathered many different sorts of tales, originally published between 1904 and 1918: early Gothic-style romances like "The Dwarf," pieces that mimic traditional folklore like "The Three Linden Trees," several surreal dream narratives, anti-war satires like "If the War Continues," and symbolic quest stories like "Iris." Few are retellings or variants of traditional tales, but they share the heightened, concentrated language and rich array of symbols that come to us from our fairy-tale heritage.
بين البساطة الواضحة ذات النبرة الوعظية المباشرة وبين الرمزية المعقدة شديدة الغموض حتى لا تكاد تفهم بين الاغراق في الوصف حتى يتحول النص للوحة مكتوبة مسطحة وبين التقرير في الصفة كفرض يعرفه القارئ لا يتذوقه هي عند الآخرين قد تكون عيوبا او عادات مذمومة في الكتابة لكنها لدى هيرمان هسه هي اوتار يعزف عليها ضمن مقطوعاته كيفما شاء وحيثما شاء صانعا من النغمة التي تبدو وحدها نشازا جزءا من سيمفونيته الخاصةالكتاب تجميع لمجموعة من الحكايات (tales)ليست كلها خرافية لكنها جميعا مكتوبة في صورة الحدوتة بعضها ذو نبرة وعظية مباشرة كالامبراطورية التي يلخص فيها تاريخ المانيا قبيل الحرب العالمية الاولى والبعض معقد لا استطيع الزعم انني فهمته اصلااسلوب عذب في جميع الاحوال.
Esta coletânea abre com um tributo à magia dos contadores de histórias e à forma como brincam com as almas de quem os escuta.
Um anão entretém a sua senhora conduzindo-a, de maneira impercetível, por mundos distantes e fantásticos, sem nunca abandonar o conforto do seu palácio.
Um dia, aquela a quem serve deixa-se enamorar por um aventureiro.
Humilhado e maltratado pelo recém-chegado, o Anão lançará a perdição sobre todos ao não ser capaz de controlar a sua vingança.
A partir de um ardil inventado numa das histórias, leva a sua senhora a servir vinho envenenado ao amante.
When reading some of the stories I wondered if Hesse was tripping on LSD.
Needless to say I didn't get the meaning behind some of the stories; perhaps Hesse's philosophies are too abstract for my understanding.
I do, however, like these ones:Iris (a touching story)The Forest Dweller (reminded me of sufism and the need to break free from dogmas of organized religion)The European (snide analogies on supremacist white Europeans by European writer.
Yay!)The Fairy Tale About the wicker ChairFaldum (interesting story albeit pointless.
But who says a story needs a moral / punchline in order for us to enjoy it?)The Empire
من از این مجموعه داستان به طور خاص داستان "گورزاد" را دوست داشتم. اما داستان های زیر را نیز تا حدی جذاب یافتم:" بازی سایه ها"، "خواب نی لبک"، "شاعر"، "جنگلی"، "فالدوم" - که البته پایانش گنگ و دن نجسب بود - ، "پرنده" و "مسخ های پکتور".جدای از این ها داستان "طومار خواب" را بسیار آزار دهنده یافتم. درست است که داستان روایت در هم تنیده ی خواب و جنون است و نباید انتظار سیر مستقیم داستان یا روایت معقول را داشت اما حتی این عذرها هم مرا از حس بد به این داستان خالی نمی کند.
my new all time favorite book!!i want to throw this book at all to reada general overview:- magickal hesse language as always, for those who are fans- not your standard 'fairytale', as endings are not happy and stories are not lightfooted- leans toward being heavily moralistic but the views are something to consider- in all, one mans thoughtful perspective of the human condition; i appreciated it and will read it again and again
These are wonderful stories and fairy tales, it really takes you deep. I transcribed one of them (orig. Ein Mensch namens Ziegler) into a song, that's how good it was.
