https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18160436-the-letter
I don't understand the number of 4 and 5 star reviews on this novel.
But it really is the most lazy kind of writing style and boring to read.
I'm 55% through and if I read another description of a "steaming mug/cup" of anything I shall boil the book.
The plot is see-through too.It feels like the author read a bunch of books and then wrote her own by copying the others.
Sadly she didn't read anything well written to do this with.
I like a bit of chick lit now and then for light relief.
But only the well written chick lit.
4 stars. This was an easy, enjoyable read. While the writing style was very simple, there are some heavy topics covered within this story - domestic violence, rape, a young mother forced to give up her baby. Though I found the author's writing to be quite basic, there was something about the book and the characters that were very likeable for me. My heart broke a few times throughout the novel, but I also had a heartwarming sense of closure at the end.
The Letter is a historical romance that spans across three generations, and like most love stories it tells about love found and love lost.Even though this subject is often predictable with its indiscriminate apportioning of pain and heartache...still each story has its own unique experiences...this is one such story.It's not a fluffy read, it's a story about two women, a generation apart, who's struggles have a lot in common, and how time and circumstance will conspire to bridge the gap between them to uncover their stories and bring some much overdue healing.This story was more compelling, I thought, in that it goes into the details of the lives of those involved and gave good depictions of the types of bias and misguided judgements of the time, along with a clear sense of the struggles brought about by the first world war.
Translation widget on The blog!!! Povestea a două destine separate și totuși împletite. A două femei lovite crunt de soartă și de cei cărora ar fi trebuit să le pese de ele. Povestea unei vieți sau mai bine spus povestea a trei destine. O carte superbă!Recenzia mea completa o puteți gasi aici: https://www.delicateseliterare.ro/scr...
I was looking for a book with a lighter vibe after a period of reading intense crime novels.
The author flits us between today and yesteryear seamlessly, it left me wanting to know what was next with both scenarios.Tackling issues like domestic violence, there are some heart breaking moments in the novel, there are plenty of wonderful ones too.
It is a book that left me feeling satisfied and all warm and fuzzy inside after reading it.It's paced really well, I read it quite quickly and the plot held my interest all the way.
Two powerful stories connect; fate steps in; across history, time, and oceans- for an explosive reunion; a love story so profound- mesmerizing; leaving you utterly speechless when you reach the end; a novel and characters, you will remember long after the book ends.As the novel begins present day,  we hear from a granddaughter and grandmother while visiting in the lovely garden, pulling weeds, (symbols for people in our lives-everything belongs).
From Manchester in 1973,  the story begins with Tina Craig, a young woman married to a violent and evil man, Rick her husband-controlling, a drunk, lost his job, he drinks, smokes, and gambles and beats her.
A very difficult 3.5 star rating (originally going to be 4)T/W- Domestic violence, Rape, Assault, StillbirthI loved Kathryn's novel The Secret when I received an ARC of that for review a while back, having found a cheap secondhand copy of her debut novel The Letter, I was excited to see why lots of readers had read and loved this book.
The novel is split into three parts, the first opening in 1970s England with a woman named Tina who works in a charity shop to avoid her husband, who is an alcoholic and sometimes extremely violent.
This story contains many of the aspects I love about the art of fiction writing: love, loss, time-travel and brilliantly developed characters.
I thought the modus operandi was inspired; I love it when an author can confidently jump between time periods to deliver a beautifully interwoven story.
I even unashamedly wiped away a tear or two on more than once occasion!After a recent spate of very underwhelming books, The Letter has been a welcome revival to my 2016 year of reading.
I can only hope the authors second book is just as pleasing.
Priča koja se krije iza tog kratkog pisma razotrit će bolne i potresne tajne, patnju, ali i ljubav koju su nekada davno, pred sam početak Drugog svjetskog rata, proživjeli ljudi koje Tina sada želi pronaći.
Potraga za rješenjem zagonetke pisma nastalog prije tridesetak godina će se pokazati nimalo lakim zadatkom, Tina će proživjeti najteže trenutke svog života, ali će ta očajnička potraga za tajnom iz prošlosti, zapravo nositi i ključ njene budućnosti.
Roman veoma podsjeća na drugi meni omiljeni roman, Pisma izgubljenoj ljubavi, koji možda zbog nešto većeg broja stranica ima i malo bolje razrađene likove, ali u svakom slučaju i ovdje se radi o zanimljivoj, potresnoj i emotivnoj priči.
2.5 stars round up to 3. This dual narrative set in the 1970's and 1939 was a fairly predictable storyline that had a Hallmark Hall of Fame type vibe. The readers are taken from Manchester to Ireland and the USA. I did find the story was a nice light read and I would love to read more by the author.
هربار به خودم میگم سمت کتاب های نشر آموت نرم چون احتمالا با کتاب جالبی رو به رو نخواهم شد، ولی هربار به خاطر کیفیت تقریبا قابل قبول کتاب وسوسه میشم.این بار هم چیز چشمگیری در این کتاب وجود نداشت، داستان عاشقانه تکراری. دو ستاره رو هم صرفا به خاطر نشون دادن خشونت خانگی به کتاب میدم.
I actually won a copy of this book in a giveaway on Twitter and I am so glad I did as I don't know when or if I would have come across this wonderful book and the author otherwise.This truly is a wonderful book, I found it to be very deep and beautifully written and it is one book that I think will stay with me for a long time.The story starts with Tina who works in a charity shop and comes across a letter dated many years before.
Having struggled through Donna Tartt's The Goldfinch, a book that took me almost three weeks to read, I was looking for something light to read over the Christmas.
When I read in the acknowledgements that her husband's name is Robert Hughes, my nephew's name, I smiled at the coincidence and decided to give the book a read.
It is a book of coincidences, and if you don't believe in fate, then you will probably think that the story is a bit too contrived.
I will remember Christmas 2014 for the very pleasant hours I spent reading this lovely book.
It also stretched The limits of credibility that Chrissy lived for 30 years within 5 miles of the convent, blissfully unaware that of the fact that Grace, who had befriended her in the convent, lived just down the road.
In particular William was a poorly drawn character who was a classic example of a woman trying and failing to write a man.
There was also too much restatement of things the reader already knew for the benefit of other characters.
Oh and one thing in particular jarred for me - a 34 year old man in 1973 saying "awesome" - i don't think so!
Απροσδόκητα υπέροχο ανάγνωσμα!Λιτή και περιεκτική γραφή, υπέροχη σκιαγράφηση χαρακτήρων και πλοκή που κρατά τις αισθήσεις σε επιφυλακή από την πρώτη μέχρι και την τελευταία σελίδα!Τέλεια αρμονία παντού.Είναι το πρώτο βιβλίο της συγγραφέως που κυκλοφορεί στη χώρα και ελπίζω πλέον και σε επόμενα.
Με κέρδισε από το πρώτο δευτερόλεπτο συγκινήθηκα έκλαψα θύμωσα λυτρώθηκα.
Τόσα συναισθήματα τα ένιωσα όλα στο μέγιστο βαθμό!Ελπίζω να δούμε σύντομα στην Ελλάδα και άλλα βιβλία της.
Τελικά κάποια βιβλία δεν έχουν την ανάλογη διαφήμιση αλλά σου κάνουν το ''κλικ''από την αρχή!
Στην συγκεκριμένη περίπτωση λοιπόν έπαιξε ρόλο το ένστικτό μου και δεν βγήκα χαμένη αντίθετα κερδισμένη .Μην το προσπεράσατε!!
I was in love with the characters and plead that things would work out.
Each and every word broke the magic of Part 1 and brought me back to a remembrance that I was, here, in my house, sitting on my bed reading a book instead of doing the fifty other things that I could have been doing--and enjoyed more (i.e. vacuuming, mopping, washing the windows, etc.).
Talk about a letdown.
Which isn't always a bad thing.
This probably is best suited to those who appreciate love stories that don't have very many happy endings.
Es curioso como también al final podemos tenerle cierta consideración porque él también es víctima de sus circunstancias.La pareja formada por Christina y Bill despierta mi cariño, una historia preciosa, con sus buenos y malos momentos.También tenemos otros dos personajes más que me gustaron como son William Lane y Jackie.
Todo esto también es gracias a que va alternando esas dos épocas con dos historias muy interesantes, tanto la de Tina como la de Bill y Christina.La novela a pesar de tener sus momentos agridulces me ha conquistado por esa calidez y detalle con la que está escrita.
Wow! What a wonderful uplifting story, heart breaking and heart warming - in between tears I smiled! I loved, loved this book and can't recommend enough, if you are a fan of Lesley Pearce you will love this heart-rending read, I couldn't put it down and didn't want it to end. The characters are believable, it was easy to read and follow and will stay with me for a long time! Will definetly be reading more by Kathryn Hughes.
An eloquent tale which flutters heart at unexpected moments. A simple five sentenced letter can change entire lives of people linked around it. Persuasion makes something happen and denials destroy anything possible.
Uma palavra: fantástico! Que história triste e feliz ao mesmo tempo. Como o tempo por vezes traz a redenção é verdade. Adorei!
In the 1970's, while searching through the pockets of a suit bought into the charity shop she works at, Tina discovers a heartfelt letter written in the 1940's by Billy, outlining his love for someone named Chrissie.
The story also follows Chrissie and Billy in the lead up to war, as they meet and fall in love, and the reason for Billy's letter is revealed.A touching tale, 'The Letter' manages to successfully combine stories from different time periods with interesting characters and situations.
Chrissie and Billy's story intersected well and the loss and heartbreak Chrissie suffers was sympathetically captured, defining the sorrow so many young girls had to endure during the time.
Fabulous!!I should have read this when I first got it. What a great story. I have thoroughly enjoyed every page and was sad to see it end.
Predictable. Would make a great Lifetime movie.
U ovoj se knjizi isprepliću poglavlja o životima dviju žena, jedne iz 70-ih godina prošlog stoljeća i jedne sa samog početka Drugog svjetskog rata.Prvo upoznajemo Tinu Craig, odanu suprugu i veliku radnicu koja osim što radi od jutra do mraka, vikendom volontira u trgovini rabljenom robom.
Chrissie nikad ne dobije pismo, a upravo ga Tina pronalazi nakon 35 godina.
Ovdje je jasno opisano kako zlostavljane žene uvijek gledaju samo dobro kod muža zlostavljača, uvjerene su da će se promijeniti i uvijek mu nađu opravdanje jer žarko žele da sve bude kao prije, prije nego što opijanje i zlostavljanje sve upropastili.
A really easy read, I wasn’t as interested in Tina’s story but I guess without it she would have been purely the tool for telling the historical story. The historical part was a fairly common experience of girls in that situation and the views commonly held at that time
Tenía guardada esta novela en mi librería desde hace un tiempo, y estaba allí porque en GoodReads y otros sitios estaba con los rótulos de misterio y suspenso; nada más alejado de la realidad.
La novela, en su primera quinta parte plantea la situación, y en la gran fracción restante busca la respuesta a un porqué, lo cual no se traduce en suspenso, misterio, ni siquiera intriga.
Hay una inquietud, pero no más; está también la historia de amor de por medio, pero la novela nunca alcanza un apogeo en ningún aspecto.
No hay una historia que asombre, ni perfiles de personajes desarrollados, no hay ninguna alusión histórica, no emociona.
What started as a "I will have a little read for half an hour" led to a very lazy day and night on the sofa and our Sunday roast being 2 hours later than normal!The prologue is a sweet opening of a granddaughter asking her grandparents how they met then BANG (literally) as we meet Tina who is living with her abusive, possessive husband.
She is stirred, while reading it, into trying to reunite it with the recipient and so we are led into the story of Chrissie and Billy 34 years earlier.I had seen this book in the best sellers chart for such a long time but had been put of it and I am really not sure why as I feel a prize idiot now!

Ενα πραγματικα υπεροχο βιβλιο...Απο της πρωτες σελιδες του σε κραταει σε εγρηγορση!ιστορια στο χτες και το σημερα δυο διαφορετικων γυναικων που με μαεστρια η συγγραφεας καταφερερνει να δεσει και να μας αποκαληψει ολα τα μυστικα ...μια ιστορια με πολλα κοινωνικα μηνηματα και ενα υπεροχο φιναλε!
*Audiobook*The story was nice and romantic, but the narrator read the characters with an accent that made me feel like I’m listening to a British soap opera, and it got on my nerves real quick.I think this one should be read and not listened to.
