https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10814.Here_Is_New_York
They asked me no questions and through them, my lengthy walks through all boroughs (except Staten Island) I began to get a glimmer of understanding of what makes New York great but also highly flawed.
He wrote this essay in 1949 and he wrote about New York of his youth in the 1920s and how it had changed when he went back for a commissioned visit in 1949.
New York made me both happy and sad and very often both at the same time.
Here is a bit of strange foreshadowing (remember this was written in 1949) "The subtlest change in New York is something people don't speak much about but that is in everyone's mind.
I have a fascination with NYC.
It started as a small child, wanting to live there.
I don't want to live there anymore but I try to visit as much as I can.
It's truly shows the authors love of New York.
I've always felt New Yorkers were a different kind of person and this book brings that to life.
It talks about all the odd, wonderful things that make NYC what it is.
This is the authors love letter to New York.
Thanks to Stephanie for getting me to read this one.
After reading her wonderful review I knew I had to check this one out.
White, as described in the introduction, was an "inveterate non-traveler" and no longer a city boy, but he agreed to do the article for, most likely, the advancement of his stepson's career.So, he's reluctant, and it's hot, and he's walking the streets of the new New York (he had lived there 20 years prior), and he's hoping to get inspired just taking in what's familiar and what's old, and he's just.
A love letter to NY...but the speculation about planes hitting buildings will haunt you.
"On any person who desires such queer prizes, New York will bestow the gift of loneliness and the gift of privacy."There's the first glorious sentence of the greatest New York book ever written.
They have many stores and many streets and many people.But New York is different, and here's E.B. White on why.
Which is of course not to say that either of these people weren't born in New York - how would I know?
(NYC is also the greatest city in the world to talk shit about!) But then I came here, because I was in search of something.
It's easy to see in these words Whites love for New York City. Although much has changed, many of the things he writes about still exist today. The diversity, a melding of races, nationalities, and languages, all co-existing in a mutual truce, and all held together by the common understanding that to do otherwise would be disaster.4+ stars.
Don't tell New Yorkers I said so, but... I think I might like this book more than the city itself. Through E.B. White's eyes, NYC is a magical, romantic place. OK, OK--it is in real life too, but his words lend a certain amount of mystique that I haven't quite uncovered in the city itself. (Leave me alone. I'm a Bama girl and I like it.) I read the final pages of this book while sitting under a tree in Central Park, just as it started to rain. What could be better, seriously?!
Every time I read White's gorgeous love letter to New York City, I'm filled with nostalgia for my own town and I tend to wake the next day with a honed sense of observational candor.
The intimation of mortality is part of New York now; in the sounds of jets overhead, in the black headlines of the latest editions.It's worth noting that this edition, published in 1999, has an excellent introduction by White's stepson, Roger Angell.
The book was published mid-twentieth century, so many of his observations are now faded memories of a time that was.His recollection of brand and building names, his comments on shows and restaurants, or where to catch a train or hitch your mare, was quite definitely before my time.But because I am a resident of Nuuk, Greenland, I was fascinated by how many people live in that small island.
I can do anything better than they can in Nuuk, so there, Mr. White.They seem to have a million tall buildings in NYC, whereas here, each town can only build two buildings and the height is regulated to a double igloo, one on top of another.
This essay has got me pining to go back to New York, to set up shop and live in those cramped quarters with those hellish humid summers and subways (oh NOT to drive!!) And though this was written in 1949, when black people were still acceptably referred to as "Negros" and Prohibition was not so long ago, E.B. White still captures the soul of New York that has remained constant.
It was written with love, and those who have known New York will mark what has changed and what things they too love that have remained the same.
A must read for any New Yorker, New York visitor, or lover of the NYC.
E.B. White's "Here is New York" is a 56 page/7500 word essay about NY.He begins the essay "On any person who desires such queeer prizes, New York will bestow the gift of lonliness and the gift of privacy." He talks about the fact that you have anonymity in NYC, and can be a hermit, but then are immersed in a concentrated center of cultures/activities/events/people/neighborhoods, that present boundless creative outputs.
And he is very prophetic in the end of the essay, talking about the fragility/vulnerability of the city, and actually talks of attacking planes, and crumbling/destroyed buildings.
But the essay is great and on point.
Must read.
It's interesting how few surprises there are throughout the essay, whether White is discussing his personal experiences of living in New York or about the tourist's, the outsider's, limited understanding of the city.
At the time of White's writing, New York City was slightly less extravagant and built up (there are a million more people in the city now), but some parts of the culture remain the same.Perhaps New York really is as unchanging as White sometimes says he thinks it is or perhaps his opinion of the Big Apple—that it is a sprawling, diverse, detached, noisy, busy, and lonesome place, all at once—has become mainstream over the decades.
White himself writes of his decision not to revise the piece: 'The reader will find certain observations to be no longer true of the city, owing to the passage of time and the swing of the pendulum.' Angell justifies this lack of revision: 'The thought occurs that this book should now be called Here Was New York, except that White himself has foreseen this dilemma, The tone of his text is already valedictory, and even as he describes the city's gifts he sees alterations "in tempo and temper".
There is, first, the New York of the man or woman who was born here, who takes the city for granted and accepts its size and its turbulence as natural and inevitable.
Those who don't love the city can just fall in love with White's prose.
Although this book can be appreciated as it stands, it definitely behooves the reader of this exquis
What was fundamentally true about New York City yesterday, is still true today and will likely be true again in 2040 when this little novella turns 100.
Since any town is really a reflection of it’s people, White describes NY as three towns made up of three distinct groups.
The first circle is the establishment, it includes those select families that keep guard of the famous (and infamous) institutions of New York City.
He wraps up his charming tale dicing New York City up another way.
More of a magazine essay than anything else, a super-short contemplation of New York City by EB White, living in the now-long-gone Lafayette Hotel during a summer heatwave, in 1948.
A small masterpiece of concision and sense of place.A rare case, too, of the quality and the texture of the prose somehow precisely matching the subject and the period.
Portrays the old, massive, nothing-like-it-in-the-world New Deal NYC.
Where the old Queen Mary liner announced her arrival to the whole west side with foghorn blasts.
Where Rockefeller Center and Radio City were wonders of the world.
Or on the Great White Way, in a City that never slept.
The introduction (from 1999) and the original essay by White (from 1948) provide an interesting pers
I've reread this a couple of times since I moved to New York. Sometimes when I am walking around the city, I'll remember snippets of White's essay. Right now the most applicable part, for me, is his description of those to move to New York from somewhere else: "...the city of final destination, the city that is a goal. ...each embraces New York with the intense excitement of first love, each absorbs New York with the fresh eyes of an adventurer, each generates heat and light to dwarf the Consolidated Edison Company."
In just 58 pages, E.B.White tells the magical tale of the neighborhoods and the "story" of New York City.
The essay was written about 50 years ago.
With the dynamics of today, some places described in the book are no longer there, but the essence of the city still lives on each page and with each word.
I have been lucky enough to live in New York, so "Here is New York" was a little bit of a nostagic journey for me.
This "settler" did a little research after reading...I had to know a little more about Turtle Bay...and the tree.
"A poem compresses much in a small space and adds music, thus heightening its meaning. The city is like poetry: it compresses all life, all races and breeds, into a small island and adds music and the accompaniment of internal engines. The island of Manhattan is without any doubt the greatest human concentrate on earth, the poem whose magic is comprehensible to millions of permanent residents but whose full meaning will always remain elusive."
It's going to be so so so hard to leave this city. I think everyone feels this way when they leave New York. There has to be some sort of bittersweet relief to leave, combined with the knowing of impending, unavoidable nostalgia. I love this book and I am so glad that in 2016 it speaks to the New York experience. How truly perceptive E.B. White was and how well he captured the New York experience. A beautiful experience, both the city and the book.
I don't know why I had to round up to having finished 75 books, but I did when I realized I was at 74 with two days to go. So I did it. I scoured the shelf to find something short enough and found this. I had read it before, but I loved it yet again. What an excellent way to end the year. And it was interesting having read it right before moving to NYC and only having visited, and then 6 years after I moved here.
A little gem of a book - more of an essay - which conjures up the vibrant, thrusting, cosmopolitan New York of 1949 in wonderfully descriptive language. It feels remarkably contemporary in some of the issues mentioned. It might be the closest I ever get to visiting the city but it was a very evocative little tour.
I loved this essay about New York. White is such an amazing writer- I love his imagery and how he manages to evoke nostalgia for the city and how he really focuses on the unchanging aspects that are present today. EB White rules.
Reread again after many years and just fell under the spell of EB White's perfect prose. A classic.
It's interesting how similar New York still is- in the generalities if not in the specifics. Beautiful essay.
There is, first, the New York of the man or woman who was born here, who takes the city for granted and accepts its size and its turbulence as natural and inevitable.
The city is like poetry: it compresses all life, all races and breeds, into a small island and adds music and the accompaniment of internal engines.
The collision and the intermingling of these millions of foreign-born people representing so many races and creeds make New York a permanent exhibit of the phenomenon of one world.
The gift of loneliness and the gift of privacy. I'm not sure what just happened. I picked up this book because I have officially entered the season of reading everything short I can find to make my reading goal by the end of the year (I'm admitting to it). Having just moved to New York, this book resonated with me in so many ways. There are sections that are funny, poignant, thought-provoking, and haunting (maybe even creepy).
This was such a quick read but it is such a profound nugget to keep on my bookshelf.
He speaks to many aspects of the city; the thrill of being so close to someone influential, the necessity to be understanding and nonjudgmental to everyone you meet, the possibility of always being a part of something -- or not be, the types of people who live/come to live here, the architecture, how everything seems to change and yet be exactly the same.
It is extremely comforting to my soul to know that the nostalgia I feel for old New York has been a shared feeling across decades of NY denizens.
