https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/572633.The_Endearment
As I read this story, I hoped that Karl could get past the huge lie that Anna told, and understand why she did it.
Karl and Anna have some first-married growing pains to get through, but love does conquer all, at least in the romantic world, which I am always happy about.
James is a great secondary character, an earnest young man who becomes like a son to Karl, and a loyal loving brother to his sister.For me, The Endearment was a treasured reading experience.
I spent much of this book with feelings of frustration and even anger at both the hero and heroine due to their choices and behaviors.
I also felt there were times the connection between the two was lacking, and I never did become a full believer in their love story.
I felt the heroine was delightful, frustrating, endearing, and very spot on for her young age.
That said, I would like to have seen more character growth and feelings of self-worth from this young heroine.
And then before long your opinions and loyalties get reversed!I disliked the dishonesty and lies employed by the h (a mail order bride) to get the H to send for her even as I understood her desperation.
The H, on the other hand comes across as a gentle giant full of honor and decency who after being disappointed by her lies, decides to forgive and accept her as his bride.And then came the Minnesota encyclopedia bit!
Truly!Midway her final lie (the biggest and the worst) gets exposed and the H turns all cold, polite and moralistically unforgiving – and I hated him.
FYI in the end he NEVER strayed, he remained faithful to Anna who he loved even through the finding out the worst of the lies about her, not being a virgin.
BTW She only lost her virginity to pay James's way to Minnesota for Karl didn't know about him and only sent enough money for Anna.
I found myself hating Anna, then loving her, and pitying her.
I also found myself loving Karl, then hating him, and at times pitying him.In the end, he grovels a little, for not forgiving her.
4.5 starsSecond book to read by the author. Enjoyed this one more.To me, this is a book not only about forgiveness but also about commitment to marriage. Two people who had not met and in many ways were wrong for each other arranged a marriage sight unseen. Regardless of another mate more suited, they choose each other.
It felt like most of the book was this fight with Karl being self righteous, cold, remote, withdrawn, and angry at Anna.Poor Anna, her mother was a prostitute who died.
She is in pain for most of the book.A secondary story was Anna’s thirteen-year-old brother James.
James listened well, learned quickly, and was competent at every new thing he did.
But he also was sad and hurt for much of the book because of Anna’s situation.Technically there was a happy ending, but it did not feel good.
It felt like the author had him forgive in order to end the book.
4.5 stars.I’m convinced that LaVyrle Spencer can’t write a book that I don’t like."I, Karl, take thee, Anna ..." My little whiskey-haired Anna ..."for my lawful wedded wife ..." How I have waited for you ..."to have and to hold ..." Not yet have I even held you, Anna ..."from this day forward ..." Forward to this night, and tomorrow and tomorrow ..."For better, for worse ..." In spite of everything, I know I could do far worse ..."for richer, for poorer ..." Ah, how rich we can be, Anna, rich with life ..."in sickness and in health ..." And I will see this thin hand grow strong ..."till death do us part." These things I promise with my life--these things and the promise of patience, as Father, my friend, said."I, Anna, take thee, Karl ..." Forgive me, Karl, for tricking you…"for my lawful wedded husband ..." But James and I didn't know what else to do ..."from this day forward ..." Never again will we be homeless ..."for better, for worse ..." I promise I will never, never tell another lie ..."for richer, for poorer ..." Riches we do not need.
Es una novela preciosa, LaVyrle Spencer se ha convertido en una de mis autoras favoritas; su estilo es maravilloso, tan honesto y sentimental. Karl es uno de esos personajes masculinos que dejan huella, me ha encantado conocer su historia y la de Anna, y James, que me pareció también adorable. Necesito más libros de la señora Spencer en mi vida.
This book would have garnered a higher rating from me had I been able to like the heroine, Anna, even a little bit.
This isn't to say it's a bad book.
LaVyrle Spencer is obviously an adept hand at research because there are so many little historically accurate tidbits.
If you like sweet historical romances, I'm not sure you can really go wrong with any of Lavyrle Spencer's books; she seems quite masterful at creating compelling stories with real characters.
I recommend reading it simply because it's excellent in an historical context, but I don't recommend it if you've never read anything from Spencer before.
This is my second LaVyrle Spencer book and it will definitely NOT be my last.
Karl is a lonely Swedish man in a new country trying to build a life for himself.
Well, what is a lonely man to do...well...get a mail order bride.
Anna's had a hard life.
Oddly enough, I found myself at times both feeling empathetic and/or annoyed with both Karl and Anna.
I'll admit I found myself screaming at the book, "will you do the do (my own euphemism for sex lol) already....geeshhh!" However, despite my heathen ways Karl and Anna's love story was a touching one and worth the read.
The Endearment by LaVyrle Spencer.
The heroine is just a young girl, with her younger brother in tow, who has escaped a life of poverty and neglect and is searching for a miracle.
The details about frontier life are absolutely fascinating, the budding relationship between Karl and the younger brother is touching, and the chemistry that grows between the skinny young girl and the strapping pioneer is wonderful, emotionally satisfying, and incredibly sweet.
LaVyrle Spencer is a master storyteller, which is somewhat of a lost art in romantic fiction.This book was close to perfection, and I can't wait to read it again!Grade: A
I actually tried but couldn't finish this book...which is unbelievable since I love LaVyrle Spencer and have devoured almost every book she has every written. But for me, I struggled with two things1) There was way too much time spent on details that weren't really necessary to the story. Consequently I felt there were places that just stalled and I lost interest. 2) I couldn't get past Ann's complacency with lying and that Karl just seemed to be a bit too condescending.I will probably try again with this book....at a later date.
It's more of a 4.5 than a 4. I loved both the characters and was impressed at the journeys Spencer set them on. Lying, selfish, impulsive Anna Reardon grows one way while patient, hard-working, honest Karl Lindstrom grows yet another. Their paths mirrored each other as we got to see the many surprising layers of Karl and Anna.It flirted with a five-star rating. It's a character-focused and character-driven story, which I just adore, but it still had its moments of too transparent plot machinations that popped the magic bubble and reminded me I was reading a book.
I had the urge to re-read this particular novel after I finished another historical about mail order brides.
Anna and her brother James come to Minnesota after they read Karl's ad in the newspaper.
They seem to fight and bicker all the time and Anna tries her hardest to please Karl but seems to always let him down.
Another Swedish family comes to Minnesota and has daughters close to Karl's age.
But Karl soon realizes his mistake and must do anything he can to have is whiskey haired Anna back.
The mail order bride theme seems to be one of my favourites.
I really like slow-building romances, but this was a little boring in spots where it got too technical and descriptive in exactly what they had to do to live in the time period. I loved the characters though! It was an okay read. It would have gotten another star had there been an epilogue. I'm a sucker for a good epilogue! I wanted more from the characters at the end, even though everything was resolved.
I'm going to take the minority opinion here: I hated the hero. And I even have a certain affinity for lumberjacks. He was so self-righteous, stubborn, and judgmental.The story was well written and I liked the heroine, the brother, the setting and pretty much everything but the hero ,Karl.
Just a lovely story.
This is a sweet, lightly sensual story of an immigrant Swedish farmer and his mail-order bride from the wrong side of the tracks.
In the tradition of earlier books there is not a complicated plot or a lot of action.
Here we have the story of two people getting to know and adjust to each other during the first months of their life together.
There is a great deal of information about the hard life of early settlers in Minnesota.
It is often heart-wrenching and I sobbed through a lot of it.
Excellent book.
Karl isn't a typical romance book hero.
I liked her brother better, but the story isn't about James.
Anna whines some, and she lies throughout the entire story, and once she is caught in a lie, instead of coming clean about anything else she lied about, she just thinks "Oh well he don't know that one yet." So when the next lie comes and the next, poor Karl is left wondering why he's still in the book and why he can't have a better woman written for him.Or I was wondering that.The story does go in depth into settler life in Minnesota and basic survival in the woods, in the 1800s, with only an ax and your wits about you.
This is a tale of pioneers living in the Minnesota wilds, a mail-order bride, her thirteen year-old brother and a Swedish immigrant -- an absolutely gorgeous tale.
Anna is full of insecurities and needs everything Karl has to give, not only his love, but also his forgiveness and understanding.Spencer completes this story by including James, Anna's brother, a young boy who flourishes in the Minnesota wilds under Karl's tutelage.
Lavyrle Spencer uses James and Karl's growing relationship to relate the small details of pioneer life in the Minnesota wilds that set the tone and atmosphere for the story.
This author is the one who initiated me to the Romance genre and, believe me, I've yet to find someone as good as her.The Endearment features a virgin (gasp) hero named Karl, a Swede in the American frontier who is waiting for his mail order bride to arrive.
At first I doubted if LaVyrle could pull off the romance, but, oh boy, was I wrong.
As always, they are as lovable as the main family, whom they don't doubt to help in times of need.In short, another great romance novel by LaVyrle Spencer.
I thought I would like this book from the blurb, but not really. The hero was way too judgmental and really knew how to hold on to a perceived slight like nobody's business. The heroine was just young and a little naive even with the life she came from. Bit of a struggle to finish to book. 2-1/2 stars.
This is the second book by LaVyrle Spencer that I've read, and I must say, what a lovely and endearing story!
The fact that Anna lied to Karl about her background seemed to rub me in the wrong way at first, but the more I read the book, the more the story started to grow on me.I love the fact that both Anna and Karl were imperfect characters; each had his or her own stubborness and way of thinking.
What I've been missing was a beautiful epilogue to tie everything together, since I still needed some proof to show me how happily Karl, Anna and James lived.
But for me, it was a bit too much on the details of the everyday life of a lumberjack in the 1850's Minnesota wilderness.
I know a lot of other readers enjoyed this part though, but for me it got a bit tedious.
There should be a good amount of trust, and obviously Karl wasn't feeling it, and I didn't blame him.Lucky for Anna, he agreed to give their marriage a chance, but I felt that she was not appreciative at all of this good life he was offering her.
Man, the last few books I have read have had lousy heroines...
Anna Reardon travels to the Minnesota frontier along with her brother, James, towards her future husband, Karl Lindstrom, as a mailorder bride.
As the novel progresses on, the couple does marry and learn to rely on each other while bracing the harsh Minnesota terrain.
The novel rendered some humurous situations while Anna was learning to adjust to being a “housewife” in the midwest.
Her brother adapts nicely to the fact that he has a real home along with Karl to take an interest in him.
In fact, James feels that Karl is more like a father instead of just a brother-in-law.
Desperate to start a new life for herself and her brother, Anna Reardon responds to an ad for a mail-order bride.
Karl is a 25-year-old Swede who has been farming his own land for two years.
What he gets is a 17-year-old girl who can't cook, can't read, and has a little brother in tow.
Karl is not happy that he was lied to, but forgives Anna in hopes of building a life with her.
Karl has spent two years alone in the wilderness and is desperate for a family.
Anna wants to escape her past and refuses to leave her brother behind.
It was really so very sweet.
Anna, the daughter of a prostitute, became a mail order bride to create a better life for herself and her younger brother.
She didn't tell Karl about her brother.
She never mentioned the brothel where she grew up.
Nor did she mention the one time she had to sell herself in order to get the money she needed to escape.
Karl had trouble forgiving Anna for her lies.
This was tender, a bit uncertain and tentative, and ultimately just so very sweet.
If that's the kind of book you like to read I highly recommend.
I thought that was weird and kind of annoying.But I did try to read it only i skipped to maybe the middle of the book and i actually started to enjoy it.
Although Kerstin annoyed me even though she meant nothing by how she behaved Karl, I still felt for Anna.I liked how Karl was portrayed.
It was different side of a man than what you would actually read in other books.
He was actually a virgin in this book and usually men are already sexually experienced in other novels and he cried which i've never read another man doing in another book.
i dunno how dey do it!i simply dunno how sum ppl can take the bare minimums n weave the most beautif
A rocky mail ordered bride marriage. The bride lied but husband was prideful & slow to forgive.An interesting insight of daily life & the pleterth of knowledge of what bounty was at the fingertips of homesteaders if they knew where to look or ask about. I liked the particular nature's of wood.
Eh. Good enough that I'm not going to be giving it away on Bookmooch. This is the second book where I feel like LS was forced to do a bunch of research and so crammed in every last piece of it, relavence to the plot be damned. I feel like I could practically go build my own log cabin now.
