https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32487617-beneath-a-scarlet-sky
2ish stars.Based on the experiences of Pino Lella, an unsung WWII hero, the events at the heart of this book are incredible and inspiring.
I suppose all of these things can be forgiven - there are only so many liberties one can take with (what we’re led to believe is) a (partially) fact-based story - but I could never get over the weak, awkward dialogue and amateurish prose.Ultimately a worthy tale and a worthy effort to tell it.
But while the story is incredible and inspiring, the book in which it gets told is only alright.Posted in Mr. Philip's Library
Writing style is not something I comment on too often, but it was obvious to me as soon as I began reading that - at the very least - Beneath a Scarlet Sky could have done with some extra rounds of (heavy) editing.And I know that the author's starting disclaimer is basically a cute way of saying "Look, some parts are absolute bullshit that I made up to make the story more interesting" but my suspension of disbelief was strained a bit when Pino's life becomes something of a superhero tale.
Not the long-forgotten star of a semi-biographical novel.The history is interesting.
I already started reading my next book.A semi biographical story about an Italian teenager Pino Lella who is sent to a convent after Allied forces airstrike destroys his home in Milan.
There are so many positive reviews for this book but I honestly hated it.
This has to be one of the hardest books I've forced myself to finish reading just because it felt like there was so much unnecessary detail included and because everything was just told out without really a narrative or story line to help build up my interest.
One feature of every hugely engaging novel is that it’s palpable throughout that the author has invested a great deal of heart and imagination into the narrative.
This is one of those novels where it’s obvious the author has thrown himself heart and soul into his material and achieved an imaginative identification with its hero so intense that he is able to write as if he experienced everything first hand.
The author endeavours to clear him up at the end of the novel but the vital mystery of him eludes him.
I’ve read so much about Northern Europe during the war, but this is the first book about what took place in Italy.
It follows the story of a real life teenager, beginning in 1943 when he guides Jews over the mountain pass to Switzerland and through the events that have him end up as a spy for the Allies.
Too often, historical characters come across as wooden or two dimensional, as if the author is afraid to give them feelings or characteristics that would paint them as less than heroic.
But Leyers says “yes, you do...it would be surprising if you didn’t hate me for what I’ve had to do today.
Jewish and political prisoners were treated horrifically in Italy, something not commonly written about - disturbing, but we need to know these things.SQUIRRELY STUFF: The incessant series of coincidences that put the protagonist - a REAL PERSON named Pino Lella - in probably 40 or more highly unlikely situations sucked nearly all credibility from the story.
I'm NOT accusing - but the way this story was written sure did have me wondering - and that stink is on the author, not Mr. Lella.The names and roles and timeframes for the German officers, priests, and other real people are (I've read) pretty badly botched too, but it is my understanding that the publisher originally claimed that this "Based on Actual Events" book was 90% perfectly accurate.
This was beautifully written. The events really happened but the author had to add conversations that the subject obviously could not remember decades later word for word. I liked seeing the Holocaust from the viewpoint of what happened in Italy. Most books include little if anything about the suffering that both Mussolini and Hitler wreaked on Italians, both Jews and non-Jews. An amazing book I highly recommend.
Although I read it quickly, Beneath a Scarlet Sky did not live up to the beauty of its cover.
I should not have read my Goodreads friends' reviews because they were very critical.
One reason they were, which I think is the most damning is that although it's purported to be the true life story of Pino Lella, a hero of WW 2, there is little supporting evidence for his story and some of the incidents the author reports seem unlikely to have all happened to the same person, let alone a teenage boy.
Beneath a Scarlet Sky gets high marks for telling an interesting story about Italy at the end of WWII.
It gets middling marks from me for the delivery.
Sullivan has written a fictionalized account of Pino Selle's Iife during the last year of WWII.
Pino was an 18 year old Italian boy compelled to enlist as a German soldier by his family in occupied Milan -- this is how they thought he could stay safe.
Sullivan had the benefit of first hand interviews with 89 year old Pino.
Great story but simplistic delivery.
The story of Pino Lella is amazing. The writing of Mark Sullivan is dreadful. It reads like it was written by a sixth grader, full of cliches and bad metaphors. I brought this book on vacation and was so excited to read it based on the description on the back cover. What a disappointment.
I didn't hate Beneath a Scarlet Sky, but I didn't really love this book either.
Most of the books I read are heavy on the France/Poland narrative and I appreciated the different angle.
I know, I know, Beneath a Scarlet Sky is rumoured to be a major film starring Tom Holland and the interviews I read from many online websites, including the UK times.
I feel it is in the same category as "All the Light We Cannot See which also received glowing reviews, but was another "ok, I am still the same person after reading this book." Am I becoming more infused with cynicism as I get older?
This book brought me to tearsThis is far and away one of the best books ever on Kindle First. It's a riveting story of love and righteousness. I won't give away more than that. If you want to know the perspective of an Italian during World War II, this is worth the read.
If you decide to slog your way through this Hot Mess, ask yourself every five pages or so if a 17-year-old boy could really ___________ [fill in the blank with whatever the author is shoveling up at the moment].I found a far more realistic, rewarding, and heart-stopping story of saving Jews in WWII in the children's books, Belle et Sebastien, or the old movie with Gregory Peck, The Scarlet and the Black.
The latter is set in and near Rome and the Vatican.Finally, I note, for what it is worth, the fact that with his alleged writing prowess and publishing connections this writer managed to have this book put out as a freebie on Amazon by Lake Union Publishing, an Amazon operation.
Review to come.
The author makes it clear in the preface that this is not a biography or historical novel, but a work of fiction based on the life of Pino Lella.
Busy guy!My favorite part of the novel was the beginning, when Pino was in the Alps with Father Re. I thought Sullivan did a great job with the beautiful Alpine setting and creating tension as Pino helped Italian Jews escape into Switzerland.
I don't know if Sullivan did that deliberately to make it sound more like the teen-aged Lella's thoughts or if that's just his writing syle.

Almost eighteen years old, Pino is signed up with the German army and unexpectadly finds a job as a driver for General Hans Leyers, Hitler's right hand in Italy.
Despite the risks, Pino accepts and his brave act will remain unknown.Dealing with WWII, Italy and the Nazi regime this is one thoroughly researched historical fiction book.
Pino Lella's life takes a dramatic turn when he becomes the driver to General Leyers, Hitler's right hand in Italy.
Sullivan spent ten years on this book, travelling to Italy and Germany multiple times to verify information.
3 I so wished I could have loved it stars5 stars for the bravery that Pino and others showedThis should have been a book I adored.
It had all the elements of what I so enjoy in my books, heroes, World War 2, courage, nobility in the face of devastation and yet this novel left me feeling oddly displeased.This is the story of a seventeen year old young man living in Italy during the war.
Anna and Pino connect, fall in love, and become lovers.The tension and the possibility of Pino's capture and the secrets he carries to his aunt and uncle makes for the bulk of the book.
My Opinion:This was a brilliantly written, and brutally honest book of one man's life in WW2.
This tale is so emotional and heart wrenching that you can't help but fall in love with every minute of this book.
I don't think I know the right words for it, but I will try my best.This tale is about a boy of 17 years old that was helping jewish people escape the nazis during WW2.
Amazing tale of about 2 years of being a hero both in helping people escape through the Alps and being a spy in the Nazis army for the resistance.
During a long weekend I went to visit friends in CT (about a 2 hour drive) so it was a perfect time to dive into Pino’s story.Pino is an Italian who at the age of 18 is forced to enlist to fight with the Germans on his home turf.
I hate hugs, so for me to want to actually give one away…well that’s major).If you are taking a long drive, or can pay attention better than me, Beneath a Scarlet Sky is a solid historical fiction audiobook choice.
Masterful tale of a young man’s courageous struggle to fight for the greater good during the Nazi occupation of Milan during World War II.
At the heart of the story is a normal seventeen-year-old Italian boy named Pino Lella.
Pino’s role in the army as a driver for a high ranking German general, allows him to witness significant events during the war.
REVIEWThis is an unforgettable, authentic story of courage, love and forgiveness.
Sullivan’s opportunity to interview the seventy-year old Pino Lella allowed Pino’s character in the book to come to life.
The vocabulary and sentence structure seem geared toward about fifth grade.
As the boys moved on, Mimo limped along while rubbing his right hip and complaining.
But Pino was barely listening.
A tawny-blond woman with slate-blue eyes was coming down the sidewalk right at them.
He guessed her to be in her early twenties.
She was beautifully put together, with a gentle nose, high cheekbones, and lips that curled naturally into an easy smile.
She turned off the sidewalk and entered a bakery just ahead.This book might be very good for those willing to look beyond prose, but it is not for me.
A powerful book, that ai highly recommend. I have read many books on this subject but none from the viewpoint of Italy. An excellent read.
What I liked most about this novel is the look at WWII in Italy.
I also liked that Pino was portrayed as a young boy, his emotions and actions were always in line with his age.
I do however think that many, many people will disagree with me and prefer this action adventure style.
The Story: When an Allied bomb wrecks his family home, Pino’s parents send him north to Casa Alpina.
Near Pino’s eighteenth birthday, he’s recalled to Milan, his father suggesting enlistment in the German Army to avoid being drafted.
Both the subject of the novel, a young man who actually lived through these extraordinary times and experiences, and the author had compelling stories, and it caught my interest.
I bought it in book form as there are many people with whom I wish to share this, and found myself reading way too late into the night as I needed to know what happened next.
Very highly recommended, it is a story everyone should read.
People can choose to do the right thing, the scary thing, even in the worst of times.
Sent to a Catholic order up in the mountains to escape bombing at home, Pino comes of age in a short time period and takes great personal risk to help those fleeing the Germans.
I hate that the creative license and melodramatic style of the author made me doubt Pino's story.The embellishments and ridiculously repeating sense of coincidence in this book should not take away anything from the service of Pino Lella.
But our hero manages to repair the car enough to get them back to Milan.Pino falls instantly in love with a woman, Anna, whom he sees on the street.
That's just one of several meetings with Mussolini, including one of the later ones in which Mussolini's wife calls and tells him that she is getting threatening messages from partisans, who prophetically say that they are going to kill Mussolini and his mistress, Clara Petacci.I almost forgot one of the other unbelievable scenes.
Very often, much more than a little was given.
All I mentioned occurred in Pino Lella's life during World War II, in a span of a mere 2 years.
From what I read, he would have been the first to say, “I'm no hero”, because there were moments he truly regretted.
But no Pino, you were never that.I'm caught between completely loving this true story (yes, it's based on a real life.
It's not hard to love a person like Pino, or feel deeply for what he and his family went through in the midst of war.
The story is great, the writing is good for certain, but not always expressive.
Based on the true story of Pino Lella, a young Italian who is sent to the Alps by his parents to get him away from war-torn Milan and gets involved in leading Jewish refugees to safety in Switzerland.
Later, back in Milan, he is recruited to become the driver for General Leyers, the second-most important Nazi officer in Italy, and then as a spy on his activities.
This is a wonderful story of courage, deceit, intrigue and romance, one which also chronicles the less well-known suffering of Italians during the war and some of their heroic resistance activities.
Mark Sullivan's novel is based on the true story of teenager Pino Lella's experiences in war-torn Milan, and Sullivan clearly did extensive research, but was surprised that Mussolini's heinous fascist crimes were completely ignored: Mussolini was wrongly portrayed as a victim.
On the other hand, he made you feel you were actually in Milan and the Italian Alps with his descriptive writing.Pino Lella had two major roles during the war: first, a Catholic priest convinced him to guide Jews through the mountains into neighboring Switzerland; and second, his rudimentary auto mechanic knowledge landed him a plum job driving a senior Nazi general, making him an ideal spy.
