https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/102266.Ill_Met_in_Lankhmar
Fritz Leiber you devilishly clever genius!Somewhere in the jazzy and cool 1960s Michael Moorcock and Fritz came up with the term “sword and sorcery”.
Just like that and we have a term for the kind of AWESOME fantasy fiction that sprang from Conan the Barbarian and has been fueling “What is best in life?” ever since!Leiber came up with the sword and sorcery wonder twins Fafhrd (pronounced Fafhrd) and the Gray Mouser.
Whatever sword and sorcery book you happen to be reading at the moment - throw it across the room, sneer at the author's petty attempts at greatness, and go pick up one of Fritz Leiber's Lankhmar books.
I have just finished the White Wolf edition of Ill Met in Lankhmar, which collects Leiber's original Lankhmar volumes 1 and 2, Swords and Deviltry and Swords Against Death.Rather than giving a blow-by-blow or even focusing on the story arc of these connected short stories and novellas, I'd like to point out the two most compelling reasons for snatching up a copy of this book: character and language.
I thought it was about time I got round to reading them and a little bit of heroic fantasy never hurts (unless you drop the hardback on your foot, there are some weight tombs out there but thats another story).Anyway These books (there are 4 in the series I have) really are more collected novellas and shorts stories that Fritz Leiber wrote collected together in a rough chronology.
Όπως το υποψιαζόμουν, είναι αρκετά απλοϊκό σε πλοκή, με κάθε ιστορία μετά την συνάντηση των δύο ηρώων να μην έχει άμεση σχέση με τις υπόλοιπες.
Για τους δύο πρωταγωνιστές δε μπορώ να πω πολλά, είναι αρχέτυπα βαρβάρου και μάγου, αλλά σε χαμηλά επίπεδα.
Και συχνά ούτε αυτό δε κάνουν, μιας που σαν εξερευνούνε μια περιοχή βουβαίνονται παντελώς και η πλοκή γίνεται 100% περιγραφές χώρου και κινήσεων.Στο σύνολό του, καλογραμμένο ήταν αλλά δεν είχε κάτι που δε θα το βρεις σε οποιονδήποτε άλλο τίτλο του είδους.
Ίσως φρέσκα και πρωτότυπα για την εποχή που γράφτηκε αλλά πιο πολλά γίνονταν σε ένα μέτριο D&D session που έπαιζα πριν πόσα χρόνια.
It's not really a novel but rather a collection of short stories about the adventures of Fafhrd and the Grey Mouser which usually work out the way that one of them, usually Fafhrd, gets himself into bad trouble, and the other one has to go bail him out.
What occasionally saves the stories is the ironic undertone of the narration, but apart from that, the style is pretty bad in terms of "show, don't tell".
And the description of some people somewhat unwholesomly reminded me of the antisemitic stereotypes of the early 20th century...On the other hand, one finds out where a good bit of Ankh-Morpork seems to have come from...In general, rather disappointing.
Howard's original Conan sword and sorcery classics, and have played Dungeons & Dragons, whose creators where heavily inspired by the adventures of Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser.
My favorite stories are "The Snow Women," which is Fafhrd's pre-Mouser origin story and is full of eerie barbarian atmosphere, the aforementioned "Ill Met in Lankhmar" chronicling Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser's first meeting, and "Thieves' House," wherein our heroes tangle again the the Thieves' Guild, oh and undead, too.Much like the first time I read Howard's Conan stories, in reading Leiber's Lankhmar tales I can absolutely see why they have endured and are still so popular, and how they've influenced the fantasy genre so heavily.

Grand.Re-reading this after many years I was struck by how generally excellent it was.
It's pulpy, but character driven.
The settings are vividly imagined, the action is gloriously paced.
You can tell that Leiber was a capable swordsman himself, as well as an actor by the many small and knowledgeable touches he includes in his craft.
This edition is actually an omnibus of the First two Fafhrd and Gray Mouser books 'Swords against Deviltry' and 'Swords against Death'.
It also features wonderful art by Mike "Hellboy" Mignola on the cover and between stories, and some of the most wretched typography ever on the back cover.
Fafhrd and the Grey Mouser are great heroes, and Issek of the jug ranks right up there with Made of Meat as one of the best laugh out loud stories I've ever read.
Leiber had been writing both prose and poetry about the heroes Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser since 1939.
Lankhmar is more sexy than Ankh-Morpork, and the story revolves around Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser attempting to impress their girlfriends by taking on the Thieves’ Guild.
In an attempt to move with the times (and against his own past record) Leiber does give the two women a bit of intelligence and character, but it does not do them much good.However, it’s well-written and entertaining, and fans who had been following the Lankhmar stories will have lapped this up just as Doctor Who fans enjoy Missing Adventures.
For some reason, the first time I tried to read this book I just couldn't get into the first short story.
I first found out about them during an exploration of the roots and history of the tabletop roleplaying world, and found that as often as they are cited as inspiration that I couldn't NOT give it a shot.
It was great to understand more about when and why these stories came about.
Their actions together tell their tale, and the reader is quick to understand and relate to that.
No one can craft a fun, naughty, and chilling adventure yarn like Leiber. His two characters were unique in their time for being total scoundrels, men who went on great quests so they could wantonly spend their loot on booze and skirt. They usually find the treasure, but they almost always loose most of it by the end. His portrayal of magic is sublime.
A classic. Unlike some it has aged well. Lieber has a way of "sneaking" some beautiful writing into his "pulp" fantasy. Also one of the best at setting a scene in just a few sentences. If you are going to read one story of the Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser series "Ill Met in Lankhmar" is the one I think you should read.
Really wonderful and influential fantasy stories -- addictive too, as one wishes very much to continue reading about Fafhrd and the Grey Mouser. I wish they were as well known as Tolkien's novels or Robert E. Howard's stories.
Sort of dopey, sort of fun. Not much going on, but not long enough to get boring.
I really enjoyed both the stories and the format of the book, as well as the writing style. Fafhrd and the Grey Mouser are so very clearly the inspiration for D&D archetypes.
vlana is probably the least egregious in that regard but again she is in 1.5 stories and then gets murdered) or on race (the only on-screen characters of color mentioned to be of color are the "mingols," which, come on dude, and who barely get speaking roles and are generally described as "squat" and "servile," and the titular priests of "the seven black priests," who are your standard evil-voiceless-foreign-priests that somehow, despite guarding the macguffin for generations untold, have never managed to accomplish what (spoilers!) fafhrd almost ends up doing.
Noting that I only read Ill Met in Lankhmar as part of an unlisted collection, not the other two stories that are included in this edition (can't find the novella on its own).The story took a while to get going.
The first quarter or so was a bit frustrating to read because it was super dense with description and was written in numerous long paragraphs.
Much of the content felt extraneous as well, the establishment of their friendship right off the bat a bit disingenuous.
I tried to read Fritz Leiber years ago and I couldn't get into him. This book is just one story, and I found that I could commit to a small dose. Leiber's wording is definitely levels above the sword & sorcery genre. This tale reminded me of my younger drinking and cavorting days. Leiber does a great job creating atmosphere and is a highly regarded author of the genre. I liked this tale but I am not sure if I will read more of his work.
An original sword and sorcery tale. A pair of rogues meet when they ambush a courier for the local thieves guild. However, when they are held to old vows, an adventure goes awry leading to tragedy. I really enjoyed this short story. It is quick and fun (at least until the end when it turns dark). It reminds me of an adventure in a roleplaying game.
One of the best origin stories collections I've ever read. Wronged love, betrayal by allies, youthful braggadocio, angry mistakes, horrible allies and friendly villains. This is the best of sword and sorcery tales you'll ever read.
I did enjoy this little novella, I might even read more. But the author wanted to pull off some old-fashioned language, and the archaisms were so many and often unnecessary that it was jarring and annoying almost as often as it was fun.
Ill Met in Lankhmar was an enjoyable story of the first meeting of Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser. Totally dated, rather one dimensional characters, good twists, and fun characters, I liked it.
I think I've read most of Fritz's books and found them quite enjoyable - throuout the 70s.
Can be uneven, but absolute must read!
Howard or even H.P. Lovecraft you pretty much know what you’re getting here – sword and sorcery with a pinch of the weird tale – but while the ingredients may be typical for the genre, Leiber’s craft is among the best of the pulp magazine writers – with vivid imagery, amazing metaphor, a wry wit, and an economy of style that puts more story and mood in a paragraph than most people can fit into a whole book.
The material is interesting, but like most prefaces, it is probably better read as an afterward.Still … if you are a fan of pulp fantasy, treat yourself to a least a few of these tales … they are among the best in the genre.
The granddaddy of the sword and sorcery genre, Leiber, when he set down to pen the tales of Fafhrd and Gray Mouser, was doing something very different than what was expected from fantasy writers at the time.
Look at any story about two mismatched rogues, a pair of unlikely friends, a swashbuckling heroic duo plagued by bad luck and worse company, and you'll find the influence of Leiber's lovable scoundrels, Fafhrd and Gray Mouser.Be sure to snag the copy of this book that includes Mike Mignola's illustrations.
This book is from what may be the best fantasy/sword and sorcery series ever written.
These stories have it all: action, adventure, horror, mystery and mayhem along with wry, intelligent humor and occasional slapstick humor.
Alluring women and treasure, terrific fight scenes, and what is probably the most atmospheric setting ever created for a fantasy series.
The title story of this volume is a Hugo (1971) and Nebula (1970) award winner for best novella.
I especially recommend the volumes: Swords and Deviltry, The Knight and Knave of Swords, and Swords and Ice Magic, but they are all excellent.
I can't recommend this book highly enough for anyone who likes fantasy, adventure, just plain fun, Dungeons and Dragons type literature."But Dungeons & Dragons isn't literature" one might say.
Howards books).This is heroic fantasy, there are no two ways about it.
At times there are 'laughter to the point of tears' moments, as well as times where tears may well up for other reasons.These stories are old, Fritz Leiber passed away years ago after a life wherein he found success enough to make ends meet, but for a large portion of said life had only that, and often less.
Thieves, but you can sense a conscience within them.
There's a great sense of humor behind the stories, but not a laugh out loud kind, more subtle.
There's a great humanity painted in these characters.
It seems to be written mostly in 3rd person omniscient, not that I paid a lot attention to that and I enjoyed that a bit, getting pieces of POVs. 1st person and 3rd person limited heavily dominate these days.
The language is a bit flowery for my modern crappy taste so it took a little getting used to.
