https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35375.I_Remember_Mama
The nicest part about reading this old play is picturing the beautiful movie that was made from it in the 40s starring Irene Dunne as Mama. Love those gentle old stories!
In general, I was impressed with the order and structure van Druten brings to Kathryn Forbes' vignettes in adapting them for the stage, but was generally disappointed that the original material he adds sacrifices the simplicity and sincerity of the original with canned and cliched conventions.
I read this play because Casey was "Mama" in the Hingham High production.
I hadn't read it in far too many years for me to figure out, but one of the LIT group women wants to do it in September as an old-fashioned play, so I got a copy from the library and breezed through it in a sitting.
Sweet, gentle, and yes, old-fashioned.
Mama is a joy.
It's easy to get impatient with the pace, the pain-in-the-ass sisters, the rather plodding language.
Family love, a daughter who pines to be a writer, immigrants who have become Americans, and a wonderful Mama - one could do worse than spend an hour here.
We seem to be referring to different books/plays, etc.The book I read was a series of essays. They tended to blend together into a montage. Life was NOT 'simpler' in those days--but the family in question is a TRUE family--an extended family. This is at least partly because the family is one of recent immigrants. But other immigrants at the time didn't retain the extended family structure. Probably the basis for success of this family is that they did.
I don't usually read plays, but I saw half of the movie on TCM a few months ago. I'm glad I read it - it's sweetly old fashioned, very funny in parts, very moving in other parts (I cried at one point, being a big old softie). I admit, I read it aloud, when no one was around - using fake Norwegian accents (although I think they were very convincing fake Norwegian accents).
A play that reminds us of an earlier era when life was harder, simpler but had the values and solidity that we yearn for today. The mama in the book is similar to my mother -- willing to sacrifice it all for the happiness of her children. A tender look at a Norwegian immigrant family in the 1910s in San Francisco.
Was a lovely play. I loved Mama and I loved the whole family. It was sweet and very interesting to see how a family lived at the turn of the 20th century. I have also seen the movie and loved it just as much.
If I read this play now, I'd rate it 2 or 3 stars, but I did this play in 11th grade, so it gets the 11th grade rating. Adam Nicholson drew a poster for the show which said, "I Remember Mama (w/ gray hair and no teeth)" That annoyed the crap out of me.
Kind of like "My Big Fat Greek Wedding" for Scandis. Entirely different kind of humour though.
Lovely play! Break a leg Naomi!
This book is so good. Again, from the early 1900's era which I adore. A young writer learning to "write what you know."
Sweet story, dated, may be okay for community theatre fluff.
Play adapted from "Mama's Bank Account." Have read it several times, but have never seen it performed (other than the movie of the same name, which is great).Read:1978
2.5 stars. The movie was much better.
