https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/416580.The_Seventh_Scroll
There are moments that I feel like reading something light and entertaining. What could be better than an adventure-treasure hunting suspense? That is exactly what Wilbur Smith, a masterful writer of such stories, created in The Seventh Scroll. It is about the archaeological quest and discovery of the lost Pharaohs Mamose's tomb. The action sets off swiftly in Egypt moves to England to end up in Ethiopia. There are very believable and engaging characters, good and honorable or totally evil. For those looking for a good thriller, read it and enjoy.
This novel presupposes the events of the earlier one; but although it's billed as the second book of the series, it takes place nearly 4,000 years later, in the author's present, and can be read as a stand-alone (any information about the earlier events that the reader needs is supplied in the text of this book).While excavating the tomb of Mamose's queen Lostris, archaeologists Duraid al-Simma and his beautiful (and much younger) Anglo-Egyptian wife Royan have unearthed ten scrolls written by the queen's scribe Taita.
Bettie's Books
"The Seventh Scroll", by Wilbur Smith is the follow-up to "River God", one of the best historical novels I have read in a very long time.
He inserts himself into his own fiction, having a main character refer to Wilbur Smith as having authored the fictional "River God" from information uncovered in the first 6 scrolls found in the tomb.
I hadn't planned on reading this series this year but now I am already looking forward to the third book, "Warlock", where we get to return to the ancient times and see what happens next!
By now, I have read this book about 4 times which tells you how much I loved it.
The basic plot of the story is that a tomb found in Egypt reveals seven scrolls, the last scroll containing cryptic clues to the burial site of an ancient king.
Two people come together, one a woman from Egypt and a man from England, and struggle against the power and corruption of a lunatic multi-millionare to find the burial site and the treasures that lie within.
After reading most of Smiths books to date, I have to say that this is one of my favourite.
Abandoned at page 313.
I made the mistake of taking a break and after picking the book up again I simply could not care less about what happens.
It's not badly written and I'm sure the clues to the pharao's untouched grave might be more fun if I had read "River Gods".
As it is, there is just so much repetition I just can't take anymore.
In fact, this book has put me entirely off reading, which rarely happens.
I hardly know what to do with myself!
ভেবেছিলাম ফারাও মেমননের জীবনে টাইটার ভূমিকা নিয়ে লেখা হবে বইটা । কিনতু তা নয়, মামোস ও টযানাসের সমাধিতে লুকিয়ে রাখা বিপুল সমপদ খুঁজে বের করার কাহিনী এটি । কাহিনী হিসেবে ‘রিভার গড’ এর পরযায়ে ফেলা যাবে না এটাকে । গুপতধন খুঁজে বের করার সাধারণ কাহিনীর মতই এটি ।বইটা শুরু করার পর পরথমেই যেটা চোখে পড়ে সেটা হলো লেখক হিসেবে উইলবার সমিথের অবসথান । তিনি এখানে নিজেকে সমপূরণ অনযভাবে উপসথাপন করেছেন । রিভার গড এর লেখক ‘উইলবার সমিথ’ কে তিনি যেন সমপূরণ অনয সতবা হিসেবে গনয করেছেন এবং সেখানে করা ভুলগুলোর কড়া সমালোচ
ভেবেছিলাম ফারাও মেমননের জীবনে টাইটার ভূমিকা নিয়ে লেখা হবে বইটা । কিন্তু তা নয়, মামোস ও ট্যানাসের সমা
Il settimo papiro, del 1995, è idealmente la prosecuzione naturale del libro Il Dio del fiume (il primo capitolo della saga degli egizi nata dalla fantasia dello scrittore sudafricano Wilbur Smith) ma può anche essere letto a parte, visto che le vicende narrate in questo nuovo libro si svolgono a distanza di ben tremila anni da quanto narrato nel primo lavoro: ne Il Dio del fiume, infatti, sappiamo solo che lo schiavo Taita si è incaricato di seppellire il faraone Mamose VIII in una misteriosa tomba realizzata da lui stesso e di cui solo lui ne conosce l’esatta ubicazione (si capisce solo che non si trova entro i confini dell’allora Egitto dei faraoni); in Il settimo papiro, invece, due archeologi moderni che, forse scopiazzando un po’ troppo le avventure di Indiana Jones, si danno letteralmente battaglia per scoprire quel sepolcro.
A sequel that takes place 4000 years later! It drags a little in the middle and has some violent sex scenes that detract from the book, but is an overall good read. I like the way this man does his research.
But even though The Seventh Scroll is actually the second book in a series, it works as a stand alone novel.Mostly, I enjoyed The Seventh Scroll.
But in The Seventh Scroll, the POV seems to change completely randomly, and didn't always makes sense to me.As I read through the many reviews from other people, though, I almost wonder if I'm missing something.
Many others seem to love the author and this series, and rave on and on about how good it is.
I didn't hate The Seventh Scroll, but I didn't love it either.
But I think I'll pass, for now at least.Have you read The Seventh Scroll by Wilbur Smith?
Smith inserted himself and his book River God throughout the story - as though archaeologists and Egyptologists look to him as an authority on ancient Egypt (refers to photos of himself and the characters, how all the Egyptologists of the world were excited to find this missing tomb after reading River God – strange to me that such highly educated people would think he has this knowledge that no one else does simply because he wrote a work of fiction) every time I read one of these references it was like tripping over a stone while out for a walk.
Avontuurlijke queeste op zoek naarhet graf van farao Mamose uit deel 1 (Vallei der koningen). Dit verhaal speelt een paar duizend jaar later, in het heden van pakweg 25 jaar geleden. Leest gemakkelijk weg ookal is het best een dik boek. Sommige stukken hadden wat korter en minder gedetaillerd gemogen, toch is het niet storend of stagneert het verhaal niet. Leuk is dat de schrijver zijn eigen persoon en het verhaal van Vallei der koningen een rol geeft in het verhaal. Net geen vier sterren.
I was immediately immersed in historical fiction the like of which I have never experienced throughout the thirty or more years since that holiday.I followed the Courtneys and the Ballantynes, and then came River God...
So much so, that I nearly found myself checking through history books to see if Smith’s story and characters had any basis in fact...
(I’ll leave you to make your own enquiries!)And then along came a sort of sequel that I was not expecting: The Seventh Scroll.Instead of giving us another adventure with Taita, Smith presents us with a modern day treasure hunt, but with the River God story acting as the map!
4.75Avventura pura! Quello che cerco in questo tipo di libri. Fantastico!
Website | Goodreads | Twitter | FacebookPublication Date: November 10, 1995Publisher: MacMillianCountry: United States of AmericaISBN: 0333637704Original Language: EnglishAge Group: AdultGenre: Historical, ThrillerBuy the Book: AmazonLootability: Grab it and goThe Seventh Scroll is Wilbur Smith's 25th book and the second in his popular Egyptian series featuring the enigmatic slave Taita.
Like in River God, Smith creates a believable world of Egyptian archeology and, from what I remember of my ancient history lessons, seems to recreate the culture beautifully.
What I didn't like: There really is a lot of sex and violence in Wilbur Smith's books.
The first two I was almost ready to let it go, but the third time he actually made it seem as if the characters in his NOVEL had interacted with him on the writing of the previous book, and they were then TALKING about him as if HE were a character and using his first novel as a REFERENCE.Now look, I am HAPPY to read about continuous worlds.
Hell, Louise Erdrich is one of my absolutely favorite authors and her books stalk entire lineages, reference previous plots, and often require a flow chart.But seriously - AUTHORS DO NOT ENTER YOUR FICTIONAL WORLD.
4.5/5This is by far the best thing i have ever read , The Seventh Scroll by Wilbur Smith is a histor
Nothing better than an archaeological hunt for treasure. Superb.
আমি এতদিন জানতাম কোষের কেনদরে যেমন নিউকলিয়াস পরাণ সঞচার করে রাখে তেমনি কোন গলপের কেনদরের পরাণসঞচার করে নায়ক বা নায়িকা কিংবা কোন পরটাগনিষট চরিতর। কিনতু পরটাগনিষট চরিতর না হয়ে খল চরিতর হয়েও যে নিউকলিয়াসের মত কাহিনীজুড়ে পরাণ সঞচার করা যায় সেটা বার বার দেখিয়েছেন বিখযাত বিটরিশ বংশোদভুত আফরিকান লেখক উইলবার সমিথ। উনার লেখা এলিফযানট সং উপনযাসটিতে রকতে হিম ধরানো খল চরিতর নিং শেং গং এর বিকারগরসত রূপ এখনো উপনযাসটিকে আমার সমৃতিতে পরানবনত করে রেখেছে।এনসিয়েনট ইজিপট সিরিজের দবিতীয় বই দয সেভেনথ সকরল বইটির খল চর

I wanted to break up a string of biographies by reading something moronic, and this really tried to deliver. Unfortunately Smith’s blend of obvious plot twists, Orientalism and sporadic violence works a lot better in ancient Egypt than in the present day. A highlight is when he makes the historical accuracy of the first book in this series a topic of ongoing debate throughout this book.
Fa il suo dovere di bestseller, intrattiene nonostante cammini pericolosamente in bilico sulla linea del trash in alcuni punti.
More twists and turns than the tunnels of a hidden tomb. Love, treasure, and look out for sharp teeth.. A must read for Wilbur Smith fans.
This book is based on a previous book, which I hadn't actually read.
However, I don't think it's actually necessary to have read the previous book, unless you are interested in the fictional historical references about the places they're visiting and the items they're looking for.This book, I felt, was completely full of ridiculous ideas.
If there's anything which gives you the wrong impression of the author, it's that.I'd read one of his other books previously, Warlock: A Novel of Ancient Egypt, which I thought was OK and relatively interesting.
But after reading this book it's put me off his works for life.
As the second book of Wilbur Smith's Ancient Egypt trilogy, this book was somewhat disappointing.
Most of the setting is modern-day Ethiopia where the two main characters search for the tomb and treasure told about in River God River God, the first book of the trilogy.
I really enjoyed River God, but this book, with the exception of a few exciting sections, was slow-moving.
Another dissatisfying aspect of the book was the dialogue between the two main characters, Royan and Nicholas.
What I did like about the book was the way Smith tied together the story lines from episodes four thousand years apart.
In dit (zelfstandig te lezen) vervolg op 'River God' zit voldoende actie en spanning om je gedurende vele uren bezig te houden.
Ik had dit boek als audioboek en het verhaal nam meer dan 27 uur in beslag.De actie gaat snel van start in Egypte verhuist naar Engeland om in Ethiopië terecht te komen.
Het boek grijpt wel terug naar de voorganger, maar het is niet echt nodig om die eerst gelezen te hebben.
Alles wordt goed uitgelegd.Wat mij een beetje tegen stond in het verhaal, is dat de auteur, Wilbur Smith, het nodig vond om zich zelf een paar keer in het verhaal op te nemen.
Let me start by saying that I LOVED The River God. It was one of my favorite books last year and I've not been able to stock recommending it.
So, of course, when I heard that there was a whole series, I picked up more of the books.
Still, it was cute when they'd refer to The River God in this book and complain how Wilbur Smith changed too many things, etc.
I started out digging this book, but everything about it was too predictable.
If I didn't already own the next book in this series, I probably wouldn't pick it up.
I picked this up thinking it would be a mix of Clive Cussler and other adventure history type books.
I am obssessed with Egyptian mysteries so was very excited when I first started on this.
It didn't have the intricate detail of Cussler nor did it have excitement that swept me up and caused me to look forward to reading it.
The descriptions of ancient Egyptian mythology were wonderful and accurate but descriptions of landmarks and the landscape as a whole were lacking.
All in all, I don't think I would read his books as opposed to Clive Cussler's.
I really cannot see why so many people enjoy this book.
It was really one of the worst books I have read.
It was quite a struggle to get to the end considering half the book was in depth description of dam construction, so dull.
I'm not a prude but it just seemed like the pervy fantasies of a sad old man.
I wasn't enthralled like everyone else seems to have been, the whole story seemed a little lame.
Although maybe my view is a little biased as I am an archaeologist and I know how mundane archaeology actually is.
Half way through this book, I went back to my lending library and got the River God (first part) again. Though Seventh Scroll can be read individually too, I wanted to read River God again.In Seventh Scroll, we see an archeologist and an adventurer trying their best to decipher the scrolls of slave Taita. It also brings home the fact that how history is distorted and presented as fact. This was a nice adventure book that I enjoyed immensely.
This was an amazing book. I read it over quite a long time, as it is 602 or more pages in paperback. I was going to donate it to a library book sale, but have decided to keep it, at least for the forseeable future, and maybe check out the companion book--River God. Sir Nicholas Quenton-Harper, a wealthy historian joins up with Royan, a newly widowed Egyptian scholar to mount an expedition to locate the tomb of Pharoah Mamose. THis has plenty of adventure.
