https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/156871.Christianity_and_Liberalism
Liberalism is time and again shown to be representing something 'like' Christianity but completely wrong in all respects.This is the book that started Westminster Theological Seminary and the Orthodox Presbyterian Church.
I would recommend it to anyone who wants a deeper understanding of the historical conflict of Liberalism with Christianity and/or any believer who wants to better understand the Christian position on any of the items in the table of contents.May our Lord Christ bless you in your studies!P.S. Another note here regarding publishing companies.
They are obviously scans from someone's slightly marked copy.If you are to purchase the book, I again would recommend you get a copy from a recognized publishing company.
I read this because of Tim Challies's "Reading the Classics Together" program. One of the biggest takeaways is Machen's insistence that liberalism is not simply a different version of orthodox Christianity—it isn't Christianity. Read some quotes here, here, and here.
Good for its time. Rightly shows liberalism to be a false religion. I am not entirely sure of how useful it can be for today's battle, aside from broad outlines. New Testament studies (and the countering unbelief) have moved on.EDIT:My above review was completely wrong. Given that major Reformed denominations are glibly going towards liberalism under the name of "Social Justice," Machen is more relevant than ever.

For actual Christians, this book is both a great resource - providing clear examples of how liberalism has infiltrated many churches and Christian doctrines through corrupting the definitions of the very terms themselves (e.g., “deity,” “resurrection,” etc.) - and a great warning to avoid letting liberalism have even a foothold in your beliefs.
For liberal Christians, this book would probably make them angry but they would have a hard time denying Machen’s analysis, except maybe objecting to essentially being called wolves in sheep’s clothing and not actual Christians at all.
A cogent and witty defense of orthodoxy. The situation that Machen describes seems to have changed little in its essential dynamics. That fact and the book’s clear, learned expression make Christianity and Liberalism well worth reading 90+ years after it’s publication. Just remember that Machen’s main aim is to differentiate Christianity from theological liberalism, so the way he covers the subject of each chapter unfolds to serve that end. Many would do well to heed the book’s final pages about dialing back the crude politicization of the church.
The boss who was interviewing me noticed that I was a religion major and asked what I thought about all the people out there who still believed that Jesus was actually God. I was a bit taken aback by this question.
Machen attacks liberalism (theological not political) which has for the last 150 years or so set itself against the understanding of the historic Church.
In this book, Machen attempts to demonstrate that liberalism, far from being just another development within Christianity, is actually a completely different religion with different foundational principles attempting to use the same terminology as faithful Christians in order to hijack Christianity into a different way of thinking.
One of the best defenses of the Christian faith I've ever read. It will definitely make you think, by honest and straightforward terminology, about what it means to be a Christian, especially in this modern world. Are you a Christian by culture or by conviction?
”I have just read my way through this, with distaste and discomfort but with reluctant and growing admiration for Machen's mind. I have never seen a stronger case made for the argument that institutional Christianity must regard cultural liberalism an enemy of faith.”  -Harold Bloom, The American ReligionBloom’s comment on this--Machen’s best-known book--will likely resonate quite pleasantly in Reformed circles for years to come. It’s easy to see why the book is a modern touchstone for the Refo
”I have just read my way through this, with distaste and discomfort but with reluctant and growing admiration for Machen's mind.
-Harold Bloom, The American ReligionBloom’s comment on this--Machen’s best-known book--will likely resonate quite pleasantly in Reformed circles for years to come.
It’s easy to see why the book is a modern touchstone for the Reformed camp.
Machen, writing in 1923, is uncommonly incisive and cogent, exposing the enemy-within-the-gates of modern, progressive Protestantism.
Like Lewis’s Mere Christianity or Chesterton’s Orthodoxy this is a book I plan to return to often.
A brilliantly simple defense of the historicity and necessity of Christianity, which is still remarkably applicable for our own day.
I am thankful for men like Machen who fought for the truth of the Bible in the dark days of Liberalism.
He kept returning to the importance of the Creator/Creature distinction as the basis for our understanding of God and man.
He emphasized the need for doctrine in order to know God. He explained that Jesus was not just a mere man who was simply meant to provide a moral example for us, but he was a supernatural person who appeased the wrath of God on behalf of sinners.
Stunningly relevant, though written almost 100 years ago, Machen boldly and compassionately addresses the difference between Christianity and Liberalism. I appreciated how Christ-centered he is in his arguments, making a case that it all comes down to whether or not one believes in and celebrates the substitutionary atonement of Jesus Christ. The chapter on "Salvation" towards the end is stellar. So grateful.
Yes, that's right I did give this book 5 stars. It was both simple to read and rich in content for the grave consequences for abandoning orthodox Christianity and that liberalism is completely different religion and is NOT Christianity.
This is one of the most important books in modern Christianity. Machen showed the difference between Christianity and "liberal Christianity" then, and the truths in the book still hold out against the emergent church movement today.
Machen does an excellent job of showing that anti-supernatural liberalism deserves to be considered a different religion from Christianity, rather than a respectable variant of it, and hence that it should be viewed as destructive to souls.
Wonderful.
Is anyone writing this powerfully and persuasively (at the same time) today?
This, for example, is what I've always been taught by my teachers and my current feeling exactly:Here is found the most fundamental difference between liberalism and Christianity-liberalism is altogether in the imperative mood, while Christianity begins with a triumphant indicative; liberalism appeals to man's will, while Christianity announces, first, a gracious act of God.The objections to inerrancy which have been presented to me in the last two months as fresh insights were familiar to Machen:The doctrine of plenary inspiration does not deny the individuality of the Biblical writers; it does not ignore their use of ordinary means for acquiring information; it does not involve any lack of interest in the historical situations which gave rise to the Biblical books.
There's a lot of good in this book. If I'm right that the central premise really is, "the cross and the resurrection are historical and central to the faith," then I agree. But there are also a lot of false dichotomies and blanket condemnations without much dialogue with things opponents actually said (I still don't really know what they believed, exactly). And a bonus: a lot of weird "sinister threat of the expanding state" nonsense that makes me wonder what the real motivations are here. I take issue too with Westminster-olatry.
This is at least the third (but maybe the fourth) time I have read this, and I enjoyed it as much as ever - interesting to read it this time having just finished Chesterton’s Orthodoxy, which was written 15 years before it. Machen and Chesterton are so different in terms of personality, background, tradition and style, yet it is the similarities of the books that struck me.
Excellent. Really very good and to the point. Clear and concise. In total agreement with him.
Machen also gives the definitions that the liberals mean when they use some of the Christian words.First it is doctrine.
It is the living and inerrant Word of God. If it is believed that we are the judge of the scriptures and can pick and choose what we will believe than that is not a true faith.A liberal will say that Christ is to be our example in how to live, while true, much more is needed to be saved.
For churches that embrace the liberal doctrines, there really is not a true reason to belong to them.
It struck me that, originally written in 1923, so many arguments put forth in this book are still arguments heard from liberal scholars today: primarily, the denial of all that remains fundamentally 'Christian' (the necessary substitutionary atonement of Christ, deity of Christ, salvation through Jesus alone, etc.) and yet still holding to the belief that one is a Christian.
Machen shows how liberal proponents want to call themselves Christian while denying the very foundational elements that make up the Christian faith.
Rather, he is going after those who teach such erroneous doctrine as if it's found in Gods Word, and to understand that those who deny the fundamental elements of the Christian faith can not in fact be Christian, regardless of what they say.
Machen tells us, in no uncertain terms, what is wrong with modern Christianity's approach to the Bible and the person of Christ.Re-read: Definitely believe that this is a critical book to understanding the liberal movement within the church both then and as we see it constantly resurfacing today, even within the PCA.
The Christian life isn't about just following the moral principles of Jesus and respecting others, there is so much more to it.
One of the things I also love about Machen is how succinct and yet clear he is.
A very easy and yet thought-provoking read.
What a terribly sad book, and how even more terrible is the fact that 90 years on there are still huge numbers of Christians who hold tight to the fundamentalism that produced books like this. The blurb on the back says that "these issues remain in conflict today, testifying to the continuing relevance of this important work," and clearly this book wouldn't have been re-published if people didn't agree with that.SO SAD.In this author's view, liberals are "hostile to the very foundations of the faith." (pg.177) But there's no convincing someone who is deliberately blind.
A classic that never seems out of date. Machen clearly proves that liberal Christianity is not genuine Biblical faith. This edition has a wonderful forward by Carl Trueman that again highlights its importance and continuing relevance today. Truly a must read if you care about the Gospel, the church, and defending the faith!
Truly a classic! Machen's defense of biblical orthodoxy is as relevant today as it was during the early decades of the 20th century. Machen effectively argues that theological liberalism, far from being a branch of Christianity is an entirely different religion.
Although this book addresses issues specific to early 20th-century American Christianity, the arguments Machen makes are relevant for any time period. Machen also writes with a cogent, coherent style that writers in any genre would do well to emulate.
While I demur on certain trajectories in this book, I think Machen's opening diagnosis of "liberalism" is both prescient and germane to contemporary debates. I recommend reading alongside Cardinal Newman's famous appendix to Apologia Pro Vita Sua, "On Liberalism."
Machen offered a clear distinction between classical, orthodox Christian theology and Liberal Protestant theology. In the 1920s, he saw the divide as urgently in need of honest address. It is no less now a century later.
This was a really enjoyable read for my Historical Theology course. It took courage for Machen to articulate these ideas in the midst of Liberal theology.
