https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/139176.The_Quiche_of_Death
Agatha Raisin is one of my favorite cozy Character, she is not particularly likable until you get to know her and she tends to spout off whatever enters her mind.
Having retired from a successful career in advertising she has set out to fulfill her childhood dream of going from poverty stricken city life to a cozy cottage in the Cotswolds only life inst exactly what she expected.
Retirement does not suit Agatha Raisin nor can she quite muster up the politeness to fit in with many of those around her.
The series is filled with delightful reoccurring characters and properly evil villains and a lot of humor.
Instead Agatha is moody, surly and rebellious - there's plenty of drinking, unhealthy eating, and a morbid humor that totally raises the bar for this mystery.Agatha certainly wasn't what I was envisioning by her name and knowing this was a cozy going in - I pictured an elderly sweet lady who bakes.
A refreshing change!The mystery part is good to as it incorporates the humor - instead of baking a quiche, Agatha buys one - but this doesn't help when the judge is murdered via poisoning.
I dropped it like a hot potato after the first chapter.
An example:Back in her cottage, she found a basket of pseudo-logs by the fire, little round things made out of pressed sawdust.
She piled some up in the grate and set fire to them and soon had a blaze roaring up the chimney.
Well, Peter..." By the time they moved on to the inevitable "expert" in the studio...This was the most boring first chapter I've ever read.
Maybe it improves, but maybe not, and I don't want to waste my time.
A complete delight! I always thought these books looked cheesy, especially the mass market editions, but I was totally wrong. I loved the writing, the characters, the pacing. I was hooked from the first page. So happy it is a long series.
I understand the need to pull a reader in, but – especially in this case – it seems to obviate the need to read the first seventy-five pages or so.The idea is that Agatha Raisin, socially inept public relations mogul, sells her company and fulfills a childhood dream of moving to the Cotswolds (because it's so pretty there), but finds that her high-powered tight-focus personality is much less comfortable there than it was in London; her alienation from other people is much more obvious to her now that she has removed herself from the hectic lifestyle she's always been used to.
The quiche that Agatha enters is snubbed, and then the judge dies, poisoned by the losing dish.There has to be some amount of information about the case in the blurb; there has to be some reason for someone to pick up the book and start reading.
I just loved the quirky 52 year old amateur detective, femme fatale Agatha.
I loved the old, droll village and the villagers.
I loved the repeated mentions of Agatha Christie.
Some of the funny incidents had me laughing out loud (I was listening to audio book while jogging) making other joggers vary of me.
I so thoroughly enjoyed this book that I am a bit reluctant to start on the next in the series, for the fear that it will disappoint me.
Unfortunately, her culinary skills are limited to the microwave, a problem she solves by purchasing a quiche in a very upscale London store.Of course, the quiche is poisoned, killing the contest's judge.Agatha clumsily hunts down the murderer and, miraculously in light of her lack of skill or even aptitude for detection, solves the mystery.But not before providing lots of laughs.I loved Agatha as well as the rest of the entertaining cast of characters almost as much as I enjoy M.C. Beaton's other cozy series, set in a small village in Scotland and featuring Hamish Macbeth, another flawed (though more likable) hero.The Quiche of Death is a mystery for people looking for offbeat, quirky, and personality-challenged characters.I loved it.
She decides to buy a home in a little town and has some difficulty adjusting to small town life.
Needing to make herself known (because she's egotist like that), she decides to enter a baking contest.
Instead she buys a quiche and enters it under her name.
Unfortunately, the quiche is taken home by a local couple and the husband croaks after eating it.
Someone, it seems, poisoned said quiche and may have it out for Agatha.
She truly had zero people skills when the book begins and her nastiness made me laugh when not much else does.
When I discovered that Simon from The Readers enjoys this series I was interested but when I discovered that it takes place in the Cotswolds of England, I knew I had to check it out.
This is the first in a series in which Agatha Raisin, a middle-aged public relations businesswoman from London decides to trade her hectic city life, for a "simpler" one in a picturesque village in the Cotswolds.
It was an enjoyable read in a delightful setting.
Agatha is a fun character and I look forward to reading more in this series.
What a fun book! Years ago my F2F book club read one of the Agatha Raisin books, and I remember liking it and planning on getting back to reading more. Finally, I have. This is the introduction to Agatha, who is not exactly a cuddly, lovable person. She has strong opinions and isn't afraid to voice them. I'm really looking forward to many more hours reading of Agatha's exploits.
I have really enjoyed the PBS Mystery series based on theses books so I decided to read the series.
The picturesque Cotswold village of Carsely is everything Agatha hoped it would be, except the friendly locals are polite, but not really friendly and she's bored.
Hoping to fit in, she enters the local baking contest - only one problem, Agatha has never baked anything in her life.
It's really no wonder a judge would fall over dead after eating her Quiche entry, except, Agatha didn't bake it.There is no lack of suspects and Agatha is now determined that the way to village acceptance is through finding the murderer.
3.5 starsI feel like the author went, "Y'know Miss Marple?
What if instead of a nice old woman, she was an unlikable divorcée career-woman with no friends and witchy personality who moves to a small British village and ends up solving a mystery 'cause she's bored?"And you know what?
I like unlikable heroines.
I also enjoyed how she went about solving the mystery.
The flicker of potential love interest there at the end bumped the book up half a star in my mind and invested me in the plot.
I rate THE QUICHE OF DEATH a 3.5 stars and enjoyed reading it. Agatha retires from her job and moves to a village away from London. Agatha, who knows nothing about cooking, decides to enter a local quiche contest hoping to make herself look outstanding in the village. After purchasing her quiche in London, the quiche judge dies from poison after eating Agathas' quiche. So it begins...
Thoughts to follow Local book club read
Agatha Raisin, a life-time career woman, takes early retirement from her PR business and moves from London to her dream cottage in the Cotswolds and finds herself in the middle of a murder in the quiet countryside.
She soldiers on and tries to fit into country life by entering the village quiche competition, but she can’t cook so she enters a store-bought quiche.
As Agatha goes on the hunt to find out how and who put poison into her store-bought quiche, she winds up making some friends in the village much to her surprise.
Published: 07/03/2006Author: M.C BeatonRecommended for: Fans of comedy dectective novelsThis books is part of a series of books featuring the amateur sleuth Agatha Rasin, this is a very funny detective fiction novel, the characters that feature in this are described well and you get a really sense of the characters and the surrounding areas.
In this novel Agatha is new to the area and finds out there is going to be a quiche contest to see who is the best, so she decides to buy one from a shop but then things go all down hill for her and she ends up trying to find out just who the poisoner is.
A great book for fans of Agatha Christie type novels.
Novela entretenida en la que hay un misterio que resolver aunque este pasa a un segundo plano en muchas partes del libro.. Lo que más me ha gustado ha sido la relación de la protagonista con los vecinos del pueblo al que se muda. El misterio en si bastante simple aun así se deja leer y entretiene. Seguiré con la serie.
So, much to my delight, as I was looking for a new audiobook I came upon all of MC Beaton's Agatha Raisin series.
And so begins the first of over 20 Agatha Raisin mysteries - they are fun, they have quirky characters and it is a riot to read/hear about the characters in the book and compare them to those in the TV series.
Since there are some major character differences between the two, I am looking forward to seeing what transpires in the future mysteries.A fun read/listen, made even the more delightful by Penelope Keith's narration, the Agatha Raisin series is going to be one that I will call on again and again!
She's a snarky woman in midlife who sells her PR firm in London to retire to the Cotswolds, which has been her dream since she was young.
I love the audio performance; the woman really captures Agatha's snarky sarcasm well and I was laughing out loud a few times.
The author paints this lovely area of England so beautifully and I'd continue on just to spend time in this quaint village with its old thatched cottages.
The plot was probably the weakest part of this novel, for me, but the characters, setting and humor are enough to keep me coming back (plus a terrific audio performance).
AGATHA RAISIN AND THE QUICHE OF DEATH - OkBeaton, M.C. - 1st of Agatha Raisin seriesIn order to introduce herself to the picturesque English village where she has just retired, Mrs. Agatha Raisin enters a quiche in a local competition and promptly finds herself a murder suspect when the judge dies from her poisonous pie.I know she is supposed to be annoying, and she certainly was. This was very light.
Having alienated her neighbour by luring away her cleaning lady, she then decides to win the 'Great Quiche Competition' by cheating.
Having treated the judge, Mr Cummings-Browne and his odious wife to an expensive dinner, she then buys a quiche from an expensive London delicatessan and enters it as her own work.
Unfortunately, Mr Cummings-Browne dies after tasting it and Agatha's cheating is revealed.
Her shame is palpable and, when she is blamed for his death, she decides to investigate for herself.Agatha is not a very likeable character in many ways - she is abrasive, often rude and prickly.
I have finally got around to reading the first of these books, after having collected a good many of them.I really enjoyed this little book.
Funny, charming a real English cosy mystery.
Rather better written than the American cozy mystereies I have read recently.
Agatha Raisin is a character who is very likeable despite her being quite flawed.
Her attempt to fit in leads her to cheat in a local Quiche competition, which leads to all sorts of trouble when the judge is struck down, apparently by Agatha's quiche.
This is great escapisim, perfect weekend reading, with many very funny moments.
I gave Agatha Raisin a couple of chances.
I actually wanted to like this; I bought the four book omnibus back whenever it was on sale in the Kindle store, and I love my cosy mysteries terribly much.
But I hated the main character, I didn't find all the descriptions quirky and funny as they seemed meant to be, and I actually fell asleep trying to read it, something which I almost never do.Giving up on it even though I haven't got to the end, because I don't care enough to keep details in mind between reads, and just removing the other ones from my books.
This is the first in the Agatha Raisin series and what a start! Loved this book so much I made my first spinach quiche in honor of Agatha. A lovely British cozy mystery!
This Agatha Raisin has taken an early retirement and has moved to a cottage in the Cotswolds but finds it unsettling that the villagers don't immediately welcome her into their closest circles.
She doesn't win the prize, but she does win all the attention of the village when the judge dies after eating a slice of her quiche.
It seems the quiche was poisoned.
This is the first book of a long series (a dozen or more) and it was the first I've read.
Somehow I kept imagining Agatha Raisin as Hyacinth Bouquet--if Hyacinth Bouquet had been a business owner.
I've spent a lot of time driving recently, and these really work as a background to the endless kilometres.Having kind of liked the TV Agatha Raisin series, I thought trying one of these as an audiobook for one of the recent long drives would be worth a go.
I personally prefer things on the lighter side when I should be concentrating on driving, and a change of options was required after having spent a lot of hours with Phryne Fisher.Obviously the Agatha Raisin of the books is nothing much like the TV version - so if you're hoping for a direct match you may be disappointed.
Quando um membro do júri morre por provar a quiche as coisas não vão correr muito bem para Agatha que, consciente da sua inocência, resolve começar a meter o bedelho onde não deve.Esta vila vai adorar a Agatha!E eu achei tanta piada a este início de série despreocupada, rápida de ler (os livritos pouco passam das 100 páginas) e despretensiosa, que vou continuar a despachar os 22 que ali tenho.Fez-me lembrar assim um pouco uma mistura de Jessica Fletcher (da série de TV "Murder, She Wrote") com a vida da aldeia dos livros da série Mitford (da Jan Karon).
I was quite sniffy about Agatha Raisin, suspecting the books to be lightweight ( they are) and rather trivial (this is also true) however sometimes light and undemanding is exactly what one needs.... And I jhadn't allowed for humour ( a lot of it) and well done pastiche. ( old lady, small village, suspicious goings on) Then I chanced across Penelope Keith as Agatha Raisin in the radio adaptations and I was won over. 'Nough said.
2.5 stars - It was alright, an average book. This was a typical cozy though I enjoyed the protagonist more than most. It was charming and made for a quick and easy read, but was a bit unrealistic with an amateur sleuth outwitting the professionals. -------------------------------------------Favorite Quote: N/A.First Sentence: Mrs. Agatha Raisin sat behind her newly cleared desk in her office in South Molton Street in Mayfair.
