https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/373925.Sweeney_Todd
Perhaps today you gave a nod to Sweeney Todd, the Demon Barber of Fleet Street." Stephen Sondheim, Sweeney ToddSweeney Todd is perhaps the most atmospheric musical ever written and to this day remains the masterwork of Stephen Sondheim and Hugh Wheeler.
It is a brilliant show.Based on a 1970 play by Christopher Bond, this retelling of the story of the Demon Barber of Fleet Street first appeared in 1979 and boasts a terrific book by Hugh Wheeler and glorious music and lyrics by Stephen Sondheim.
I thought I knew this musical. My knowledge was skimming the surface. The libretto is pretty extraordinary and anyone who calls themselves a fan of the musical should own it. Great bonus: introduction written by Christopher Bond - playwright who wrote the play on which the musical is based.
Attend the tale of Sweeney Todd...A must-have for any Sweeney Todd fan, this is the entire script and lyrics for the show as it premiered on Broadway in 1979 (as well as parts that were cut before it opened).
Included are scenes and dialogue not in the stage versions on video, and a description of the original opening sequence that's not usually performed.
I especially enjoyed the introduction by Christopher Bond, where he talks about re-writing his own version of Sweeney Todd for the stage and how Sondheim adapted it into a musical.
As a die-hard fan of the stage version of Sweeney Todd, this is a great reference.
However, Sweeney doesn't limit himself to one victim, he takes revenge against the whole world for his and his daughter's suffering by slitting the throats of his customers, whose corpses are then made into meat pies by his enterprising accomplice, Mrs Lovett.Music and lyrics written by Stephen Sondheim based on Hugh Wheeler's book, adapted by Christopher Bond.Starring Denis Quilley as Sweeney Todd, Julia McKenzie as Mrs Lovett, Adrian Lester as Anthony Hope, Sheila Reid as Beggar Woman/Lucy, Carol Starks as Johanna, Philip Curtis as the Bird Seller, Christopher Benjamin as Judge Turpin, Barry James as Beadle Bamford, Adriana Lewis Morgan as Tobias Ragg, Nick Holder as Adolfo Pirelli and Stephen Hanley as Fogg.The ensemble players: Di Botcher, Megan Kelly, Mandy Moore, Martin Nelson, Peter Prentice, Ernestina Quarcoo and Rhashan Stone.Musicians: Colin Wray [trumpet], Dean Foley [horn], Emma Fowler [clarinet], Rachel Edmunds [bassoon], Julia Leighton-Jones [violin], Judith Herbert [cello], David Berry [double-bass] and Philip Hopkins [percussion].Associate Music Director: Mark Dorrell and Production Music Direct: Paddy Cunneen.Director: Declan DonnellanFor the BBC: Recording Engineer: Mike Robinson, Sound Balancer: Tim Durham and Producer: John Langridge.First broadcast on BBC Radio 2 in 1994.https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b07l...
Do I remember this book?
I bought it real cheap (like ten cents) one year and later gave it away.
Did I like it?
I don't remember.
It's one thing to watch Sweeney Todd and another to read it.
i felt horrible that sweeney todd was tricked by mrs.
my friend courtney told me that the sweeney todd story is based on a true story.
she didn't know details, but some guy was selling really tasty people sausages..........
ew.revenge is a dish best served cold.
i believe that in this case, it's best served piping hot and with a nice beverage.......
and to unsuspecting people.
I LOVE Sweeney Todd, it's perhaps one of my favourite musicals ever and it just means so much to me.
I saw it live in Brussels a few days and I just couldn't stop crying frol happiness because I love the musical so much and it meant so much to me and I'm just idk man I'm Sweeney Todd trash and Stephen Sondheim is my absolute god thank you.
{also come and talk to me about this musical because not enough people give it love, thanks} {my favourite songs are The Ballad of Sweeney Todd, God that's good and Epiphany}
My favorite musical. Haven't seen the movie, but Sweeney Todd was a crazy complex character.
I think I liked reading it better than watching it.
The Good: A well-constructed morality tale of karmic bleakness. With cannibalism, revenge, quasi-incest, madness, and betrayal all on display, Sweeny Todd is a brilliant example of bad taste functioning as popular entertainment. A worthy stab (so to speak) at domestic Grand Guignol.The Bad: The songs are clever and apt enough, but I think the story would have been better served without them. To be fair, this is the problem I have with most musicals; all too often the songs fail to be compelling explanations of character intent and motivation.
A great musical for those who think they don't like them; with nary a lonely goat-herd or singing cowboy in sight, Sondheim has created a darkly twisted, bloodthirsty tale of rage and revenge. The antithesis of Rogers and Hammerstein (whom, let's be clear, I like tremendously as well), those who enjoy "Sweeney Todd" should also like "Cabaret" and "Chicago" although, in the case of all three, I think the original stage productions best the movies (although they have merit as well).
Una bella storia goticaMi aspettavo qualcosa di molto più splatter, invece la storia è piuttosto tranquilla, tranne un paio di dettagli. Indicato per chi ama le cupe atmosfere inglesi alla Jack The Ripper. Un consiglio: NON guardate le illustrazioni delle ultime pagine se non dopo aver finito il libro. Altrimenti vi rovinerete la sorpresa!Letto edizione italiana
SWEENEY TODD is my absolute most favorite Sondheim musical. I saw it in the original previews and have made it to almost every NYC production. The scope of London, the hierarchy of society, the plight of the poor, and the most soaring songs make it a perennial. Evening reading the lyrics will give you chills!
The funniest, darkest, most blood curdling musical ever written.
In all honesty, this book is phenomenal and is as genius as the mind who created the actual musical.
This book showcases all the thought put into the musical such as the designs for costumes, set designs, and even gives facts about previous productions of the show.
This show definitely had a lot of gall and nerve to show as many dark themes as it did.
This show deals with prostitution, murder, rape, pedophilia, and cannibalism, definitely not something for a small child to watch.
However, for the appropriate audience, this show is a spectacle and is one of the jewels of the musical theatre community.
a thing.@$#%.
I'm not sure what it is about scary things that makes me want to swear, but there it is.
it was really interesting to read the script for this one, see all the stage directions, and all the lyrics plotted out...
Yeah, I'm gonna straight up say, no kids allowed on this one.
I watched the movie a while back and that scared me...
but the movie was the toned down version!
EEEEEEsh!All that said, the stage directions and lyrics are wonderfully clever, the character development top-notch, and every aspect of this show is brilliantly crafted to horrify you.
for a week straight.
I first found out about this musical through the movie, wherein Johnny Depp played lead, a few years back. However, I just picked this book up at my school's library, and I thought it interesting to read. I ended up finishing the book in less then 6 hours, whilst listening to the musical soundtrack. I loved everything about it, the musical in the background made the reading all the more intense. I could not believe my eyes when I had got to the twist at the end of the book!
I absolutely love this musical.
I plan to see it two times this week at the Kavinoky Theatre.
It will be my fourth time seeing it performed live.
I saw this version with Angela Lansbury and Len Cariou on our local PBS station in the 1970s.
What this book does is help you sing along with the right words versus those you made up due to the strong British accents ☺.
I own the DVD of this version as well as the CD.
I often sing parts on any given day.
This is the libretto from the famous Sondheim musical and it's a thoroughly gruesome horror story. The lyrics are clever and my favourite comes from Act I - "the trouble with poet is how do you know it's deceased? Try the priest." I cannot help but admire such awfulness. When you see the show, you realise the excellence of the score matches the triumph of the lyrics. Usually when I finish a book, I dispose of it. This is one I'll hang on to.
I love musicals, but I have trouble hearing all the words when sung quickly or when the voices overlap with different lines. So written versions like this are always illuminating and welcome. The story here is a little thin, but there is glee in the gore and wit in the words. This isn't my favorite Sondheim work, but it is certainly worth revisiting.
"A diagramação deste livro é uma obra prima. Os detalhes que a editora Wish colocam nos livros valem cada centavo investido. A história é muito boa! Um pouco diferente do filme com Jonnhy Depp, e tem um estilo folhetim bem interessante."
Having this play in book form gave so much more information. If you're looking to really understand the play and the original lines, this is where to go-- and photos of the original cast! I'm in love.
Watched the musical version in class (not the original cast although close). Absolutely blew me away. I would absolutely recommend watching the performance- the soundtrack is great, but the spectacle is more fun.
brilliant!!!! it feels good to own this and to be able to decipher sondheim's music & lyrics because the man is a GENIUS god i love this show
Sondheim's genius shines through. There's all kinds of disturbing things in this musical to get your blood pumping.
4 stars- Ms. Jenn
Muito melhor que o filme, com certeza! São duas obras distintas, sem comparação, como diria Stephen King!
GENIUS!
Auf der einen Seite eine Geschichte konsequenter Rache. Wobei konsequent dann auch nicht wieder ganz stimmt bei all seinen anderen Opfern. Der Meinung vieler anderer kann ich nicht folgen. Sweeney Todd ist für mich kein komplexer Charakter. Die Kulisse um ihn aber definitiv. (Ich spreche vom Film)Wer sich für Obsession und Mord begeistert, für den ist auch das Buch das Schweigen des Lichtes von Niel Flemming etwas.
This is by far my favorite Sondheim musical and certainly one of the best shows written for the Broadway stage.
I far prefer Sondheim as a lyricist than composer but this show, along with A Little Night Music, contains some of the best music that he wrote.
After a conversation with a theater friend of mine, I am inclined to refer to the piece as a Grand Guignol operetta.
Sweeney Todd is not a sung through piece, as most operetta tends to be, but contains many numbers that are very opera like.
Don't worry though, your murder and disposal takes place during some pretty catchy tunes.
ReviewI love this play.
The movie is pretty good too.
This is the full play script, along with musical numbers.
It's a quick and gruesome read.
I hope you're not picking up before heading to dinner, because you never know what exactly it is that you're eating.Ratings (based on a 10 point scale)Quality of Writing - 8Pace - 8Plot Development - 7Characters - 9Enjoyability - 9Insightfulness - N/AEase of Reading - 6Photos/Illustrations - 9Overall Rating - 5 out of 5 stars
