https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/179166.Dianetics
Just kidding...
Ron felt the need to define words throughout the book.
What does he think of his readers to have to define such challenging words?
Perhaps they are not intelligent enough to use a dictionary.I laughed out loud at this:Coitus Chain, lover.
all painful because of enthusiasm of lover.Constipation chain.
Firsts incident, zygote...
Each incident building high pressure on child.Masturbation chain.
Eighty succeeding incidents.
No wonder the world is so screwed up.
And no wonder this was in the used section.
I certainly would not want this rubbish on my shelves.One word you don't need to define for your readers, L.
I would recommend this book to someone who enjoys writings like:"The potential value of an individual or a group may be expressed by the equationPV = ID^xwhere I is Intelligence and D is Dynamic. The worth of an individual is computed in terms of the alignment, on any dynamic, of his potential value with optimum survival along that dynamic. A high PV may, by reversed vector, result in a negative worth as in some severely aberrated persons. A high PV on any dynamic assures a high worth only in the unaberrated person."
He was kidding, right?
To better fight the enemy, know the enemy.
The funniest blend of hypnosis and psychoanalysis to come along in a good long while.
Hey guys, it's a science!
And by science we mean a collection of information about a thing.
To explain the workings of the brain we've made up some anthropomorphic devices that remove any blame for misdeeds committed.
You can see more concepts being invented in the author's mind as the book goes on, as if the whole work were a stream of consciousness exercise.
It's hard to imagine this crazed pseudo-science being the seed for such a twisted and deranged enterprise like Scientology.
It contains the nuts and bolts of auditing (the process of dianetic therapy) and the basic terms of what later became the cult - and religion - of scientology, although still in the secular guise of self-help procedures and a kind of do-it-yourself, mock-up psychotherapy whose aim is the alleviation of ALL non-physical ailments of man and of ALL psychosomatic illnesses, and the achievement of the (rather improbable but alluring and fascinating) state of "Clear": a kind of perfectly rational, clear-headed Randian/Nietzschean class of "supermen" who are entirely without any hang-ups or other "normal-human" problems.Such grandiose claims are, of course, without merit, but they are only one side of the coin.The other side of the coin - the one that fascinates me - is the story of "what could have been": namely, how great a philosopher and thinker L.Ron Hubbard COULD have been, had he only been less - well, greedy and evil, I suppose.The fabrication of physical "engrams" and the gnostic fantasy of the superhuman "clear" are only a twisted vesion of a true and perfectly reasonable philosophy hidden within the core of the book.There are glimpses of his greatness in the book.
5 stars if you read it drunk as a comedy.1 star if you incorporated this book into your life, chose it to be your new reality or converted to Scientology after reading it.⚠WARNING ⚠ : Concepts in this book may be dumber than they appear.
5 stars if you read it drunk as a comedy.1 star if you incorporated this book into your life, chose it to be your new reality or converted to Scientology after reading it.⚠️WARNING ⚠️ : Concepts in this book may be dumber than they appear.
I didn't actually read the book because, well, why would I want to willingly put that shit in my brain. Giving it 1 star is just my way of spitting on Scientology.
This book changed the way I view people and myself. It explains exactly why people are the way they are and what causes us to some times act irrationally. It gives an exact technology to help us get rid of the "reactive mind" and all negative aspects of ourselves so we can once again live a rational and happy life. I've seen the miracles of this science and I'm glad to finally have read the book first hand to understand how it all works.
It's poorly written, disorganized, absolutely not science, and a pipe dream of a self-help process.
There are no new concepts of "self-help" or psychology in this book.
There is no place in a science book for terms like "almost," "seems," "perhaps," "wild guess," etc.
When things are asserted as scientific fact, the words above have no place in the discourse.
In addition the author makes assertions as "scientific fact" with no proof or even explanation.
There is nothing to convince the analytical person of the truth of any of the assertions.Whether this book has helped anyone I cannot say.
Trump has applied the sensibility of reality TV to politics; Hubbard applied the sensibility of science-fiction to religion.
Both deliberately capitalized on Americans' susceptibility to celebrity (Trump on his own, Hubbard by starting the first church of Scientology in Hollywood and cultivating actors as apostles).
Both encourage a nostalgia for a mythical time that never existed (Hubbard 75 million years ago, when humans lived, on another planet, much like 1950s Americans, Trump an undefined time when America was "great"), and blame the loss of that past prosperity on enemies (Xenu the Galactic Overlord and roaming hordes of illegal immigrants, respectively).
I did a Google search, and unfortunately it does not seem as though the Church of Scientology has endorsed Trump.
Rambling, illogical, fantastical, and a total mess.I'd only recommend this to somebody who wants to know more about how batshit insane Scientology is. Other than that, don't bother.
By far, one of the most important books that I have ever read in my life.
However, after I got started I learned a lot more about myself and why I am the way that I am.
Anyone who has read this book and has not been changed in some way shape or form, is simply not a normal person.
This is one of those books that will change your life.Any Scientologist will tell you that this book is a stepping-stone to many greater things, and they are right.
Truly this book and those that follow will be the most important books you will ever read.
His science fiction was and always will be terrible, and I include this bunk in that pile, though to use the word "science" at all is overly misleading.
Fiction.
Fiction.
Written by probably the only person who's writing I like LESS than Stephenie Meyers'.
Though I am ashamed to admit I even touched this book let alone read it I'm writing this as a heads up to anyone who might be curious: Read it if you're up for a good laugh but be prepaired to lose some braincells.
While no one can deny that Tom Cruise's life has really taken off since starting up scientology, I don't like the use of the word "Dianetics". Just because Hubbard's wife, Diane, became an android after her death, doesn't mean that the rest of us want to hear about it.
Reading it made me high.
Here is a good quote by Robert Carroll regarding the book."What Hubbard touts as a science of mind lacks one key element that is expected of a science: empirical testing of claims.
The key elements of Hubbard's so-called science don't seem testable, yet he repeatedly claims that he is asserting only scientific facts and data from many experiments.
Most of his data is in the form of anecdotes and speculations ...
Such speculation is appropriate in fiction, but not in science."For a "religion" that supposedly combines science and spirituality I find their disregard of the scientific process to be rather disturbing.
WAIT! I'm serious: Read this and LAUGH. If you have ever questioned the origin of religion, or the power of brainwashing: READ THIS BOOK! I started to read it out of sheer curiosity, then became fascinated by the number of "tear-out" sign-up slips that litter every-other chapter. Honestly: cult applications. It's SCARY, but REAL. There is confirmation that JRR Tolkein and LRonHubbard INVENTED these middle-earths: Elron/LRon...get it? REAL people pay to be CLEARED. Save yourself from the rest: Read this and LAUGH.
I originally read this book in 1978. I realized while reading it why I was doing street drugs and completely quit. I also realized why I was having so much trouble with relationships. I am so glad that part of my life is over and I've never regretted it for a second! I've now remained drug free, have been married 26 years to the same wonderful man, have 2 children both now adults and living very well on their own. My quality of life changed so much with this book that I want to share it with others.
This is not an easy read considering the plethora of new words that my ESL studies did not cover in the past.
Well, take a look at it and there you go, a real good snapshot of the global consciousness as to what popularity is about.
Thus far I did not meet, nor hear any valid counter argument against any one of the 194 axioms of this book nor any other statement in this or other LRH books.
If on the other hand you are also a serious student of Dianetics and looking for a Twin Study Buddy, let me know.
Wonderful book. Changed my life. Using the Dianetics techniques I no longer have chronic pain in my back--it's been 22 years since I broke it. I've been pain-free for 17 years. It was 17 years ago I discovered Dianetics. I'm a miracle story. Highly recommended.
This book answered many questions for me. It helped me sort out my life and begin to take control. If you are having trouble with anything in your life, this book can help.
This looks creepy as fuck. Scientologists are everywhere here in Hollywood. Aliens, Tom Cruise, brainwashing, stalking; it's all good clean fun....
I believe what I believe and that is good enough for me.That said, Scientology has become THE "go to" religion for an easy joke about crazy people in our population (with Mormons hitting a close second thanks to South Park.) I have always avoided stating an opinion on Scientology since I had no basis for discussion.Then I decided to read Dianetics.[SPOILER ALERT] Yup. Scientology is Crazy McCrazy.According to this book, all the negativity and stress I carry in life is due to my parents arguing before I was born and because (allegedly) my mother tried to have me aborted.(I checked with mom and she claims this isn't true...
I know Scientology has gotten a lot of bad press lately, but I think the book can stand on its own as a good read.
The book claims a lot, especially as it concerns healing the mind to the point where you don't get sick, your vision improves, and your memory jumps through the roof.
These claims are a weak part of the book, but at least they keep you interested.
The book claims that only a specialist of Scientology can help clear your mind of the engrams (things in your unconscious that hold you back, make you depressed, etc.).
I closed the book and walked away when I read that color-blindness is apparently psychosomatic and can be cured through the achievement of clear.
I informed him that he needed to work harder because he should have had that color-blindness cleared up by now.
But next time I meet someone who hears voices in their head, I'll be sure to refer them to counseling and not to some ridiculous piece of crap that does nothing more than plagiarize other religions, destroy the confidence of its readers/followers/sheep and convince people they need to spend their way into debt to fix themselves and be "clear".
NO STARS YOU PIECE OF CRAP!
Well I am not joining the Church of Scientology. Heinous stuff. Too bad because there was some very powerful truths buried here. But I am too much of a humanist to adhere to this ideology.
The book promises that Scientology is eclipsing the known world, converts are pouring in, and that science is confirming every aspect of Dianetics.
Mr. Hubbard constantly urges readers to "get busy and build a better bridge." The tone is uplifting throughout, promotes peace (there is never "justification for war"), and focuses on the good derived from obtaining "release" and becoming "clear." The "Auditor's Code" pleads that auditors not judge their applicants, listen thoroughly, not diminish emotional experience, express kindness.
Despite the science, the uplifting tone, and purported emotional peace, I felt that Mr. Hubbard was thoroughly manipulating me.
The first half seemed to say that all of my problems could be understood, and then solved, by understanding them as "ingrams" (do I have that right?) or imprints inadvertantly made on my unconscious mind during brain surgery.
Except I'd never had brain surgery, and still had problems (which I guess can't be solved since they can't be understood as having been made during brain surgery).
Maybe the second half of the book is better; I would read it if I could just overcome the negative ingram made by the first half.
Instead, he uses a series of bizarre (and trashy) made-up dialogs and scenarios to illustrate our need to eschew the deep emotional scars we experienced in utero because of our parents' apparently endless amounts of affairs, abusive arguments, and constipation.Ultimately, Hubbard's theory boils down to one thing: we are all fucked in the head because our mothers constantly tried to abort us with knitting needles (or in one graphically specific instance, a #12 gauge copper wire), and consequently need to spend countless hours alone in a room with a Scientologist, who will slowly bleed you of your traumas and dollars until you become Clear.
