https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37302.Certain_Prey
Facing a professional killer and a lawyer who knows exactly how to work the system means that Lucas will have to pull a couple of dirty tricks of his own in order to catch Carmel and Clara.This is among the best of the Prey novels mainly because it’s got two great villains at the heart of it.
The Prey books usually feature a tightly plotted war of wits, but in this case Lucas makes a deductive leap that seems reasonable and leads to an important clue.
Actually, Lucas is up against two great antagonists in this story: Rinker, who is a particularly deadly professional hitwoman and Carmel Loan, a man-eating, ass-kicking Minneapolis criminal attorney.As the story opens, Carmel Loan has fallen madly for Hale Allen, a sexy but rather dimwitted attorney who also works in her firm.
Davenport, though, is one of those detectives who works by inspiration as much as anything else, and when he gets a sense of what might be going on, the fun really begins.As is always the case in this series, the action moves rapidly.
It's especially fun to watch the by-play between Lucas and Carmel Loan, and Clara Rinker is an inspiration.
Series sleuth Lucas Davenport, a Minneapolis homicide detective (who, by the time of this novel, is actually a deputy police chief) isn't really the protagonist here; structurally, at least for much of the book, the co-protagonists are the villains, and Davenport is the antagonist, albeit one who's on the side of good, much like Holmes in John Gardner's Moriarity novels.
Another great addition to the series with a new set of bad 'guys' that are great women.
It's not often that I read a book with a really good woman heavy & he manages 2 of them.
They were a great match that led into a really satisfying ending.Again, the way Davenport & his have to figure out what is going on is great.
They don't always get it right, but even their blind alleys are interesting.
As usual, Davenport shines, but only with the help of a great supporting cast.
As usual, the narration by Ferone was great.On to the next!
2nd reading - Before reading the most recent Davenport story, I'm running back through and bringing myself up-to-date on the characters.Carmel Loan is a top notch lawyer in the Minneapolis area.
She wants a fellow lawyer, but the problem is, he's married to a wealthy lady already.
Abused by her lowlife stepfather and raped at an early age, she still retains certain values and standards.The only problem I had with the story is the overwhelming use of coincidence while Lucas and the FBI are in Wichita, and he ends up dancing with the antagonist.
The genesis of understanding the why of disrespectful 'lawyer jokes'.
I love Lucas Davenport! A story that I enjoyed, even though it was a bit far fetched at times. Book number 10 in the series, and going strong - I'm probably the only one who has not yet finished the series- but I started in order and I'm still enjoying it. I know I won't be 'happy' further along , for to me--- well Lucas should be a man who 'plays the field' with a few different love interests. But I'm pretty sure, I'll love the story lines anyway!!
The tenth Lucas Davenport novel from author John Sandford, "Certain Prey", is relentless by it's pursuit of a female hit woman.
In probably Lucas Davenport's toughest case ever with the Minneapolis P.D. one wrong move could get himself killed.
Knockout beautiful defense attorney Carmel Loan is in love with Hale Allen.
Rinker is a real pro with dozens of kills and doesn't even show up as a bleep on law enforcement radar.
Rinker comes to Minneapolis from Wichita and kills Barbara.
What Davenport doesn't see at first is Carmel and Clara becoming best friends and both enjoy killing.
This one is probably author John Sanford's strongest Lucas Davenport to date.
I am slow to hook up to the Prey series by Sandford.
I really like the Lucas Davenport character.
I've read Silent Prey, Bekker in NYC.
Sometimes it bothers me that there's so much blood and gore and violence in these books and I wonder why I'm using my remaining time on earth reading about this crap but then I want to know how Sandford is going to solve the problem, how the characters are going to develop, what kind of plot holes I see in the book, and so forth.
Sometimes it gets really exciting like you want a thriller to be.
This begins a long career for Clara as a hired killer.
Through a third-party, Carmel hires Clara to kill Allen’s wife, at which point, Lucas Davenport steps into the picture.
All the while, Davenport and his crew are one step behind the two killers, with no evidence to tie either one to any of the murders.This is the tenth book in the Prey series by John Sandford, which remains as fresh at this point as at the beginning.
Lucas Davenport is an engaging character, an intelligent and intense investigator who enjoys his career chasing killers.
3.5 Stars. This is one of the Lucas Davenport books I missed my first time through the series. I wanted to read it because - a) Lucas was honestly a much more fun character when he was single and a man-slut; and b) two crazy-ass female characters, one a hit-woman, and the other a garden variety psycho killer. What's not to love there in a read? ;-)
It's always interesting when your home town is mentioned in a book. While not completely set in my home town of Wichita, KS, Lucas made several stops there and the villain was based there. This was a good story with a surprising ending.
Even better the second time. This is a BAD bad guy (or girl in this case).
Alright you thrill-seeking, fiction reading, bullet-dodging, crime scene peeking, evidence planting, breaking and entering, crime enthusiast sonuvaguns, here it is:Carmel Loan is an elite criminal defense lawyer who has gotten some real creeps off the hook.
Allen's probably chewing gum while drinking top notch stuff, but that's small potatoes to Carmel.
In order to take out wifey Carmel hires the baddest hit woman in the mafia underworld: Clara Rinker.
Reading about their relationship was becoming a little banal over the past couple of books and I hope that when she returns their relationship heads in a different direction.
Occasionally, though, there are so many pulp elements in the air spinning like plates on a stick, I can't help but hold my breath as I turn the page.In this 10th Lucas Davenport novel, Sandford introduces us to two very interesting serial killers: Clara Tinker, hit man for the mob (it makes me giggle to type that!), and Carmel Loan, top defense lawyer in the Twin Cities, but also a closeted psychopathic murderer.
The running gag throughout the story about the 'alternative lifestyles and diversity' seminar manual was definitely an overkill insult response to someone leaning on Sandford in real life, I think, but if Davenport's Neanderthal, but reasonable, nature offended me, I'd have stopped reading awhile ago.
In this latest work, Davenport is a deputy chief of the Minneapolis Police Department.
She’s also very smart, but lonely, a fact that leads to some difficulties when she is hired by Carmel Loan, a successful lawyer in Minneapolis, to kill the wife of the man Carmel has the lust for.
The cop is not killed and the complication arises that he might be able to identify her.
This is book #10 of the Lucas Davenport series from John Sandford.Have you ever seen a sexy co-worker and thought to yourself "If they weren't married I would be exploring me some of that"?
In this book Carmel Loan, a successful criminal lawyer, thought that about a co-worker but she went beyond that and hired a hit woman, Clara Rinker to kill the wife.Davenport is on this case trying to figure out who killed Hale's wife and why.
I really enjoyed the Clara Rinker character and Carmel Loan to a lesser extent.
Great book, and while I love Mark Harmon as Special Agent Leroy Jethro Gibbs on NCIS, casting himself as Detective Lucas Davenport in the small-screen adaptation of this book is a mistake.
He's a physical wimp.
Treat Williams would be my first choice, simply based on looks and physical presence.
I know Williams has developed a recent reputation for playing nice guys in Hallmark Channel-type movies.
But I think it's an acting challenge he could easily overcome to play the steely Davenport character.
He's got the Davenport "look" down pat.
My next choice would be Tom Berenger.
John Sandford has created some amazing characters, who really came alive for me.
The best-killer-for-hire character for me is Clara Rinker.
The best created defense lawyer Carmel Loan, making millions.
The 'not the sharpest knife' lawyer, Hale Allen and his lover Louise or is it Carmel.
Coppers Baily, Sherrill, Sloan, and others.
Baily gets shot during the murder of Allen's wife and Lucas Davenport sets to solve all of this and he does.
And the complex, righteous, aiming to get whatever she wants, Carmel Loan reminds me of Lenore, a character created by another author.
Lucas Davenport has his hand full with 500+ page report to review and respond to a committee. Then there is business of an intelligent female hitman that has remained undetected through several hits and a female lawyer that is accomplished and cold. Lucas is truly challenged by these circumstances, a well paced story with a satisfying conclusion.
One of the better Prey novels! Why- lots of Carmel and Clara and their crazy dysfunctional friendship, and not as much Davenport. It says a lot when you are rooting more for the villains than the hero.
2.5 stars. Standard Lucas Davenport book.
Excellent!
good book one of the best prey books that I have read so far
Another outstanding Prey novel! I've only read about a half dozen or so of these Prey books but this one comes very close to being my favorite, but I think Golden Prey is still the one I've enjoyed the most. This book was extremely good though & had two very interesting antagonists. At times I was actually kinda rooting for one of the bad guys. As with all the Prey books its very well written & hard to put down. Highly recommend!
Good book with a contract killer, and an attorney who acquires a taste for killing. The latter character requires tremendous suspension of disbelief, although the former does not. Lucas, and later the FBI, are on the hunt for the former, but find the latter, who kills herself after trying to kill Lucas and being shot, but not killed, by Lucas.
One of the better Lucas Davenport books. A woman killer gets to be friends with a female lawyer and all hell breaks out. A likeable killer who has killed over 30 people and not been caught is a real problem for Lucas and his detectives.
My favorite book of the series so far. The action starts right away and doesn't stop till the very end.
Straight up bad. Totally unbelievable plot, characters, ending. Terrible.
This series is growing on me, though now I'm thinking I should have probably been reading them in order. Thankfully, they're pretty independent. So far this is the best one I've read.
