https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/327257.The_Deceiver
The Deceiver was a interesting, gripping, exciting, rational, readable read that felt realistic and possible. The main character was described as a complicated, flawed, and experienced intelligence agent. The four stories included in the book could all be read pretty much separately from one another as the book is not really a novel but a collection of short stories. This is definitely one of my favorite thriller reads. Recommended.
Unfolding as a retrospective of a spy's career told in the context of an internal administrative hearing, it stitched together several very good stories with the protagonist as the common thread.
Admittedly, in many of his books, Forsyth has the "good guys/bad guys" certainty of the Cold War making his job easier, rather than the stateless, morally ambiguous political and terrorist landscape of today to try to make sense of while telling a good story.
But Forsyth and Le Carre remind us, all was not black and white during the Cold War, and there was still plenty of moral relativity and tradeoffs to vex the heroes of their books.
A brilliant novel with a beautiful ending. Forsyth shows how it should be done. A great tribute to people like Sam McCready who spent their lives in the shadows to ensure that the people in the light were never harmed. A highly recommended read.
Re~visiting one of my old reliable authors by way of the Reader's Digest Condensed Books (RDCB), I chanced on this one during a power outage while the monsoon is raging outside.
Where do old spies go, given their unusual abilities and special skills?
Samuel McCready is The Deceiver whose "relevance and usefulness" has apparently been deemed ineffective by the powers that be in Whitehall's "narrow" corridors, McCready being part of the wrong side of the invisible timeline: BC ~ Before Computers as opposed to AC ~ Age of Computers.
The action is as fast and thrilling as only Forsyth can manage with all the impact and thought~provoking (as well as hilarious) moments that can be found in his prose.
Frederick Forsyth never disappoints.
Leuk weer eens een spionageroman te lezen. En vrij luchtig geschreven boek, om de vorm van een raamvertelling, eindtijd van de koude oorlog en daarmee dit soort boeken markerend. Het laatste deel lijkt haast een episode uit Death in paradise
The protagonist Sam McCready is an unconventional one. Details are sketchy as I read this a few years back. I do remember three separate plot lines being laid bare before a committee for one man's defense. Worth a read for the Cold War espionage plays.
I have just read this novel. I missed it first time around, This is one of the masters of spy fiction. What an amazing book I just loved it.
Quite possibly the worst book I have read this year.
I am astounded by how badly written this book is.
A study in why rampant headhopping is a bad thing and info dumps the size of mt Everest.
The whole premise of this book fails.
Forsyth tries to show off his (supposed) detailed knowledge of how the secret services work through his info dumps.
Problem is that if you are a fan of spy novels, these info dumps contain things you already know.
And if you are not a fan of spy novels the minute details of how the secret services operate would bore you to tears.
McCready and all the old school spies he represents, may seem like a fossil to the guy with a cell phone, a gps and a 'beam me up' team sitting back home with computers, but he's not traceable, when the electricity fails he's not at a loss of how to contact home, and when the 'beam me up' guys don't get the chopper into the right sector on time to pull him out he's still got a hole in the ground to go to and a backup plan to get his defector out.
Forsyth insieme a Le Carre' e' uno dei miei scrittori di spionaggio preferiti perche' e ' molto ben informato sulla storia e anche nei suoi racconti di fantasia si imparano un sacco di cose interessanti.
Inoltre sa far anche ridere con situazioni paradossali, ma realistiche.
Qui si trovano quattro episodi storico-spionistici diversi in luoghi e circostanze diverse, dove per trovare una soluzione e uscirne fuori interi ci vuole coraggio si, ma anche "plenty of common sense", come il protagonista dimostra di avere.
Il nostro eroe stavolta e' un ometto apparentemente insignificante e sgualcito, con legami e conoscenze ovunque che sa utilizzare al momento giusto, chapeau Forsyth.
az in nevisande va ketbaye charndesh aslan khosham nemiad
This was a really cool book, lots of intrigue and action, but also stories within the main story! Really great!
Taková klasická Forsajtovka.
Pretty silly, which is unfortunately what I think about spy stories in general.I read only two of the stories.
Sam is known in East Germany so sends an old spy he has had on the payroll, a German named Bruno who normally works for the West German secret service but moonlights for the British.
Sam is vacationing in Florida but flies out to Sunshine when the Governor is murdered.
A senior British policeman is sent from London to discover who shot the governor.
This is a good spy thriller, comprising four separate stories loosely tied together with an overarching framework.Perhaps controversially, I would say this is better written than either The Day of the Jackal or The Odessa file.
There is less padding and a tighter narrative.
This is largely plot driven, but the characters are three dimensional enough to carry it.
The book makes a statement about the naive perceptions of foreign policy in the 1990s, from sectors of the establishment and the media.
It does not claim to invite deep introspection or offer life changing insights, but achieves what it tries to do very well.
This book was fun. No reading between the lines just simple action served straight up!The format was quite different. Here the plot is more a kind of case files of Sam Mcready, also called the Deceiver. It was a departure from the standard Forsyth thrillers I have read before.There are three cases in the book where the last one is a murder mystery of sorts while the first two are spy adventures. Go for this book, it is like a non-stop action thriller!
The book is a collection of 4 stories interrelated only due to the presence of main character. Each of the four stories starts with a new setting which takes time to build up and is the main problem that I felt while reading the book, but when you get past the initial pleasantries for each story, it intensifies and starts to feel more like a thriller.
Probably Forsyth's best work after the Day of the Jackal. This book provides a lot of detail and insight into how intelligence agencies operate, how they collaborate with friendly countries, and the kind of operations they run for their countries. Thoroughly enjoyed this book.
Great holiday readingThe storyline is a little thin due to its nature hence 4x, but a perfect book for your holiday choice. Varied and very entertaining allowing the author to have some fun with his readers.
An excellent, very detailed book..I thoroughly enjoyed this book. as with all books by the author, the attention to detail is incredible but the book is still gripping and fascinating. Jim recommend this book to anyone.
3/4Short StoriesForsyth at his best. Fast moving tales featuring Sam McCready at his formidable best with very different protagonists. Gripping unputdownable.
Not his best, but very good.
https://garammirch.wordpress.com/2018...
An excellent read. Of all the books I have read by Frederick Forsythe, this one I enjoyed the most. One of the very few books that I have read twice.
BelievableAs always a great story with a scintilla truth with believable characters and a plot that keeps you turning the page
This book disappointed me. Firstly it is a collection of short stories. Secondly, the narrative lacks the cohesion to enthuse the readers.
The thought seems more whimsical than what someone in his state of mind would think.(When you read the story, you would understand!)It is also kind of odd that someone who is a good judge of people like Sam totally missed the nervousness and state of mind of his friend Poltergeist and allowed him to continue the mission.
Reading that part of it, I became aware of the similarities and finally it was clear the very intelligent and intriguing episode we had watched - at that time I don't know if we thought it was a film, but cable tv was comparatively primitive then - was a Frederick Forsyth work; if we had, the amazingly intelligent quality would have seemed something natural.The book is about the world of spies, and their bureaucratic masters and rules play a small role while those that achieve much due to sheer competence at the craft rather than adhering to the rules are closer to centre stage.
The novel is based on various espionage encounters of the British Secret Service agent, Sam Mcready during his tenure in Special Intelligence Service. The four key operations by him form the core plot of this fantastic thriller. MASTER STORYTELLER.
Il simulatore, in originale "The Deceiver", uscito nel 1991, è un libro di Frederick Forsyth che è uno scrittore britannico, noto come autore di spy-story come "Il giorno dello sciacallo", "I mastini della guerra", "Dossier Odessa", "Il pugno di Dio" e "Il quarto protocollo".Siamo negli anni Novanta, la guerra fredda sembra ormai relegata agli archivi storici e mentre il mondo sta cambiando ai responsabili dello spionaggio internazionale tocca affrontare nuove sfide.
