https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/69666.M_C_Higgins_the_Great
I'm sorry to say I didn't really enjoy this book.
So far there hasn't been a Newberry Award winner I haven't liked, but I just didn't get this one.
To start with, the pole was confusing.
This book was like a poem I can't grasp, or like a dream that is confusing and a little disturbing but you can't quite remember what happened or why it bothered you.
The writing was alright, but I just found the story tedious and hard to relate to.
It takes forever to go through three days in the story, and in the end, it doesn't seem worth it.
And to bang my head with others who may have also found it frustratingly slow and tedious.Hamilton creates such fully realized characters that I was left knowing what M.C.’s, Jones’, or Ben’s reactions would be if placed in an entirely different place and time.
(Can I just interject that I loved watching Ben swagger while he was on his home turf.) M.C.’s desire to get off the mountain is at odds with his naïve comprehension of the world at large.Interspersed between M.C.’s coming of age arc is a story of relationships.
I’ve chosen this year to read my honor’s books from.
I wanted to like this book by Virginia Hamilton.
I thought her descriptions of southern Ohio (or was it West Virginia or northern Kentucky?) were magical, and the characters were interesting.
I loved the historical perspective and the family legends and the whole relationship between the Higgins family and Sarah's Mountain.But I couldn't get past my initial dislike of M.C. and his father.
I didn't like their relationship.
Ugh.And there wasn't much a plot in M.C. Higgins, the Great.
I guess I don't mind that so much in some books (like Criss Cross, for instance)....when I like the characters and are curious about their lives and their thoughts.
(I always thought this would be a funny book--doesn't the title sound like the title of a funny book?--but it's not, at all.)This was an interesting book and the writing was lovely, but I thought it was trying to do too many different things--I'd like it better with more focus.
Aware that she had won the Newbery for 'M.C.,' I have meant to read it for some time, but was put off by the covers of the editions I have seen (especially the current paperback shown here).
Which just goes to show you how powerful a bad cover can be, and how misleading.
It's the coming-of-age story of Mayo Cornelius Higgins, who suffers under the weight of a slag heap which looms over his Ohio backcountry home, teetering on a mountainside that looks out on beautiful wilderness one way and a strip-mined hell on the other, and the pressures of his domineering father and vibrantly alive mother.
I read this book twice because it's just so beautiful.
It is intended for young adults, but it may be too sophisticated for many readers (young or old).The main character lives on the side of a mountain that his grandmother claimed when she fled slavery.
The mountain is being stripped for minerals and is threatening to collapse.
But his family refuse to leave-- this home is their heritage.
What else will they have?Every scene is rich with metaphor.
No character is saintly (which is often the case with "topical" work).
All of the friendships/relationships are complex, laden with a sense of mutual wariness.
To sum this book up in one word, I would say, "Confusing." For most of the book, I had no idea what was going on. I didn't really care, either, because I was bored, and the 40' pole was so unrealistic, I didn't even believe it was a real thing. I would not recommend  M.C. Higgins, the Great  to anyone.
I'm confused.
I've decided to read as many as I can of Virginia Hamilton's books for Black History Month 2013.
In truth, the national celebration 'for remembrance of important people and events in the history of the African diaspora' just gives me a chance to read and revisit these remarkable works for young readers.So I started with M.C., Hamilton's Newbery Medal winner.
To signify, Gates writes is “to imply, goad, beg, boast by indirect verbal or gestural means." That certainly sounds like M.C. Higgins, The Great.Is Mayo Cornelius Higgins a likable character?
This is the story of a boy, aged 13, who dreams of leaving his home on the mountain, who hopes his mother's incredible voice is the answer that will take him and his family far away.
It is a coming of age story too, as M.C. Higgins struggles with the inner turmoil that sits in the young, a turmoil that pulls between respect and love for his father and his desire to be his own person.
I did complete it and had to wonder, did I expect too much?
This is a story of a boy (M.C. HIggins) growing up on a mountain in basic isolation from anyone but his family.
His mother's a great singer and "the dude" comes to maybe record her voice and take them off the mountain.
Also, an *annoying* girl comes and M.C. thinks he might have a crush on her/she's a way off the mountain/whatever.
But she leaves and honestly I didn't see the point to her even being in the story at all.
I didn't think the book did a very good job of working with the bordering on supernatural elements of the story.
This is the kind of book that teachers assign kids that make them hate to read award winning books. It is clear that no kids sit on the award committees. I tried to like it, really, but I couldn't make it though for chapters. It was clear from the beginning nothing was going to happen like M.C. thought it would. I found the setting so strange, I needed a nap and some photographs to feel like I could understand the place they lived.
M.C.'s guide to getting the girl: First stalk her a little while she's walking by herself through the woods, then jump out and scare the bejezus out of her.
Next, climb up on your pole and burn something.
Then jump down, and stalk her through the woods again, this time at night.
You can always have conversations with her in your head.Jone's guide to being a good dad: Slap, punch and kick your kid every time you see him.
It's all in good fun, right?
Give him a pole.
IGNORE the giant mountain avalanche heap that everyone says will fall on your house and family one day.
A YA story written by an esteemed writer who lived about a half an hour from where I live now. A pleasant story about a young boy who has dreams of grandeur sitting a top a 40 foot pole. One summer two visitors intrude and give M.C. thoughts of life away from his mountain. A pleasant read.
A fresh breath of air for ch lit--little dependency on plot, symbolic, beautiful, moving...yet hard to sell my ch lit students on.
As a grown-up, I can certainly appreciate the subtlety of this story, I'm not sure that most kids would entirely enjoy this book.The only thing keeping this book from five stars for me is a scene that felt too permissive of rape culture, in which MC sneaks up on a strange girl in the woods, kisses her against her will, and assaults her with a knife.
While I could make a case for Hamilton's addressing the real problem of toxic masculinity in this scene (which she certainly does throughout the story), as a woman I found it to be disturbing and insufficiently addressed later in the book.
If not for this one scene, this could have been a five-star book for me.
Read as part of my ongoing project to read all the Newbery Medal winners. I was 10 when this book won the prize in 1975 so I must have read it at the time, but I have no memory of it. It's a lovely, naturalistic story about a 13yo boy growing up in the hill country near the Ohio River. Clean yet lyrical prose that captures the tension between childhood and adulthood. I savored it.
I tried.
When M.C. and Lurrehta go over to Ben’s house, they go with Ben, and once they start to explore more, M.C. realizes that his friends family isn’t that witchy and that they are just like any normal family.
An example of this is how there was one plot based on Lurrehta and M.C., there was one based on the spoil heap, there was one based on making his mother famous, and there was also one based on M.C. and his friend, Ben being friends in secret.
C. Higgins, the Great by Virginia Hamilton (Macmillan) 6/2/13 (278 pages) M.C. lives in the mountain-woods in an area long-ago settled by his great-grandmother, Sarah, a former slave.
M.C. also meets and develops feelings for a young woman who is traveling and camping and hiking in their area.
In a sudden, dramatic climax, he realizes that safety for himself and his family will never be found in fleeing the hills."Lurhetta: "Land's the basis of all power, see, and people hold onto their land." p.
Like the lake, it was a magic belonging only to those of the hills.
The one knew they would never leave the mountain.
It's a shame that this book is categorized as juvenile fiction or children's literature, because that means that a great many adults are missing out on a wonderful story.
Just because the protagonist is young, I don't believe that automatically classifies a book as young adult.
To Kill a Mockingbird is a good example of this.M.C. Higgins the Great is a Bildungsroman tale where one of the most prominent characters would have to be not only M.C., but the mountain itself.
Sarah's Mountain breathes in the book.
For M.C., the mountain represents the entirety of his world.
Ben was never to touch M.C, with his hands and risk losing his only friend.”M.C.’s intense internal struggle between his desire to leave the mountain to get away from a strip-mining slag heap that he thinks will fall on his family’s home and his rootedness, between his fear of the Killburns and his friendship with Ben, and between his fear and love for his hard-scrabble father tear at him as he sits on his 40-foot-tall pole that provides the outward-looking view that serves as a metaphor for the world “out there” that both entices and scares adolescents as their process of developing self-sufficiency and independence accelerates.Even though all the characters in the book but two are either Higgins or Killburns, this story is far richer than a mere history of the conflict between the families and it is the other two characters, both wanderers, who serve as the catalysts to M.C.’s realization that safety for his family will not come from leaving the mountain and that choice, change and action are within his power.
As M.C. weighs whether to stay with the family and home he loves or set off into the world on his own, there appear on the horizon two strangers who will make his decision all the more difficult.As a slag heap, the result of strip mining, creeps closer to his house in the Ohio hills, fifteen-year-old M.C. is torn between trying to get his family away and fighting for the home they love.I liked so many elements of this book.
I felt that mountain heap inching toward this family on every page.This is a lovely and unique coming-of-age story, which, like almost every Newbery winner, I wish I had read first as a child.
Indeed, I could re-read this a couple more times to more fully grasp his interactions with the other characters.M.C. lives with his mom, his dad, and three siblings on a ledge on Sarah’s Mountain.
Jones, M.C.’s father, constantly teaches the family to honor Sarah’s memory.Above the family property, a coal company has blown off the top of the mountain to strip-mine for coal.
Banina, their mother, is away for most of the day, and she works hard.The interactions with the other characters in the book are great.
For Jones, the pole is a symbol of the family home and ancestors.
There isn't a lot in the way of plot; this story propels itself along from the force of its characters, particularly the young protagonist, M.C. I think preteens and younger teens can enjoy this story, but it will challenge them as well.
This is one of those stories where the reader has to read between the lines, and there is a lot of symbolism.
M.C. often sits atop a 40-foot poll, where he can observe his family, his home and the beauty of the mountains.
The book takes place over the course of a few days in the life of M.C. Higgins, a boy living in the hills near the Ohio river.
But then MC meets a traveling man who has come to record his mother's excellent singing voice, so I thought the book was going to be about this.
Just a tall, stationary pole with a bike seat on top that his father gave him as a present for swimming the Ohio...There were a few things I liked about this book.
I liked the setting and the sense of place the book creates.
Too much symbolism - so much so that people in real life do not act like that.
Without those two things, the last chapter would have been really good.Also unrealistic is that MC didn't get arrested for what could easily have been taken as attempted rape and murder; any Jury would correctly convict him of sexual assault with a deadly weapon.I also get a sense that Virginia Hamilton tries to throw in leftist ideas in her books.
I noticed that in Planet of Junior Brown she makes a notion that all kids know and understand that overpopulation is one of the biggest troubles of our day, along with things like murder and thievery.
The characters of M.C., his family members, his friend Ben, and the two newcomers that come to Sarah's Mountain all struck me as unlikable in one way or another, and I found many of their actions and motivations to be fairly incomprehensible and bizarre (remember the time M.C. kisses and then stabs a girl he likes?).
And, in fact, rather than the prejudice you might be expected to see directed against the African American Higgins family during the time period when the book is set, we actually see the Higginses demonstrating considerable prejudice against another local family who they believe are "witchy." Perhaps the most incomprehensible aspect of this book for me was M.C.'s pole.
But his Dad just doesn't get the message that the strip mining on the mountain is leading to a natural disaster and M.C. doesn't know how to stop it or how to save his family.
He hopes maybe the man coming to hear his Mom sing can get them out of here in time but isn't sure about that.M.C. will then meet a young girl who will awaken a part of him he never knew existed, even giving him new eyes and heart toward his friend, Ben's family, shunned because of their "witchy" powers.
M.C. Higgins, the Great, thirteen, is the oldest child who watches over his siblings from the top of a 40-foot pole, hunts with his hands, and rebelliously befriends a six-fingered boy whose family is considered witchy.
I couldn't tell if he loved or hated his father whom his son calls Jones; they play-fight with a fierceness that made me uncomfortable.
His mother tells her son, 'He's Jones.
M.C.'s hopes are invested in his mother's voice; perhaps she'll be discovered and they can leave their house endangered by strip-mining.M.C.'s life is so alien—both in his circumstances and his responses—that I couldn't connect with him.
