https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2102209.The_Iron_Man
I read this NOT because I am a boxing fan, because I'm not, but because I am a Howard fan. By now, I have read all of his Conan and other sword-and-sorcery stories, his historical fiction, his Westerns, and I think even all of his horror! That leaves his boxing stories. No surprise that the Texan author gets you right into the ring as he describes the fights. You start feeling the pain after a while... This book includes three stories and a very short essay by REH on what makes an "iron man."
Voracious reading, along with a natural talent for prose writing and the encouragement of teachers, conspired to create in Howard an interest in becoming a professional writer.
It's clear from Howard's earliest writings and the recollections of his friends that he suffered from severe depression from an early age.
Friends recall him defending the act of suicide as a valid alternative as early as eighteen years old, while many of his stories and poems have a suicidal gloom and intensity that seem prescient in hindsight, describing such an end not as a tragedy but as a release from hell on earth.
Robert E.
Howard is my all time favorite writer, but for many years much of his work was heavily edited.
This is another of the heavily edited collections of Robert E.
Howard's stories.
I am a purist when it comes to a writers works.
I know some of these stories are no longer PC but they should be read as Howard wrote them and understood that he wrote in another time period.
Don't read this book unless you just can't find any others of Howard's unedited books to read.
Message me if you need a list of what is good from this awesome fantasy and action writer.
Good and pulpy, just like his face.
Savage pugilust tales by Robert E. Howard. The fight scenes are more graphic than his work with Conan or Kull. Well worth the exploration of battle.
Note: I read the complete "Iron Men" novella, not the truncated, originally-published version that cut several thousand words...Robert E. Howard called Iron Men "probably the best story of any kind I ever wrote”. He was a fan of boxing, and I have read a few of his humorous fight stories starring Sailor Steve Costigan. Although Iron Men isn’t mentioned in One Who Walked Alone (as best as I can remember), I thought it was time to check it out.2.5 CharactersSatisfactory with positive exceptionsThe
Howard called Iron Men "probably the best story of any kind I ever wrote”.
Although Iron Men isn’t mentioned in One Who Walked Alone (as best as I can remember), I thought it was time to check it out.2.5	CharactersSatisfactory with positive exceptionsThe characters here aren’t anything special.
I think Howard was better at writing about big battles than pugilism.3	StoryGoodAlthough the fights were predictable, I liked this story.
The fights feel alive (if predictable), and he is able to tell a good story without spending much time on anything except fighting and dialogue.
It’s a more rounded story, as opposed to featuring bits here and there added to an epic punch-up.
Mike Brennon is the man dubbed as “The Iron Man”, owing to his ability to withstand a barrage of punches from the best of fighters.
Yet he has no real boxing style – he’s more like a street fighter, but this and his ability to battle through anything brings him fame and money.Part of the mystery is why Iron Mike (wonder if Mike Tyson’s read this) goes through such pain after making plenty of money, plus why is he so secretive about how he spends it?
An easily digestible book most probably written for beginner/novice readers. It exhibits the radical extents of sacrifice and what can be called "The American Dream", where Brennon risks his physique, health and life in pursuit of instant wealth and a happy life. On another note, reading this book makes you realize where all the cliché boxing film scenarios (where an opponent beats the crap out of the protagonist, yet the latter finds his way to victory through one assault) really come from.
This is such a fun book. It contains four boxing stories by the great Robert E. Howard. The heroes are men of iron as only REH could create; boxers of little to no talent with only their iron constitution to sustain them. I highly recommend this little collection to REH fans and those new to REH.
A short story about a man's boxing career. While the story has no clear flaws, I was bored and did not notice any deeper meaning in the recounting of several of his matches and associated preparation. Expected much more from the author of some entertaining Conan the Barbarian novels.
Short story length. Why does he push himself to box? There's a reason.
A quick read. A godd story-line. Overall.. It was worth reading. Loved the Climax which i never expected :D . A Happy ending :) !!
Some of Howard's best boxing stories. These are his non-humorous boxing stories, which I like better than the humorous ones. I have both a hardback and a paperback of this from Zebra.
Iron Man is actually a love story. If you cannot see this you really must re-read and dig deeper. I cried for the hero of this story.
Short Read,interesting written style.The ending felt a bit rushed, but the description of the fighters and comparisons to other fighters had an air of depth that I liked
Good book, would make a cool movie.
