https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1046918.Mist_Over_Pendle
The story is based on true facts regarding witch trials in the 1600s in Lancashire and there are several books written about this subject.
This book is esentially a historical fiction including original names of the witches and certain prominent names from that time.
Another book called, "The Lancashire Witches", written by Harrison Ainsworth is a more terrifyingly fantastic book based on the same facts but "Mist over Pendle" takes a more believable and explanable stance on the 'witch powers', includes a look into Lancashire life, fashions, religion at that time and adds a touch of romance, mystery, and intrigue.
Being raised in Lancaster the place where the Pendle witches stood trial it has always been a big part of the towns history and I have been brought up with the story.
It has always fascinated me and even taken me on a Pendle Witches Tour from Lancaster Castle to Pendle Hill and the surrounding areas.I found this book so powerful and moving that I saw myself walking down the country lane cursing the peddler!
just imagining what the 12 accused must have gone through even before the trial took place they had to walk from Pendle to Lancaster over 46 miles on foot.
I had no idea until today that this story had a historical basis: the Pendle witches of Lancashire.Neill fleshed out the historical record by supposing motive and character and (I assume) adding the wholly fictional Margery Whittaker.
Aside from Margery's involvement, he takes a very conservative approach: the witches are not recast sympathetically as humble practitioners of folk medicine, nor were they part of some grander Satanic conspiracy.
(view spoiler)[The more interesting case is the well-to-do Alice Nutter, who wields knowledge with more skill and whose actions have interesting motive: the advancement of herself and her family.
(hide spoiler)]
Utter rubbish. I feel conned. Witchcraft? What witchcraft, it's all about sewing dresses and moaning. Bloody dreadful. And I've owned this book for thirty years, finally got to read it, I wish I'd burned it at the stake instead.
I'm sad that this book wasn't as awesome as I was expecting/hoping it to be.
I mean, it sounded like a good idea...
and I generally love witch-trial type of books, and for the first say hundred pages I was really into it.
I liked Roger and Margery a lot, but then more people kept being introduced and I was getting so lost in all the small details!
In the end, my eyes kind of became glazed over and it was like my vision was passing over all the words without really seeing or ingesting them.
My mother recommended it to me when I was about 16 and it is just lovely, I've read it and the read it many times I'm the years since.
Some people may not appreciate the subtleties of the anxiety and superstitions of the Jacobean period surrounding the idea of witchcraft which this book presents because it is very subtle and usually suggested rather than explicit; to me this is what is so clever about this book it shows that the fear of witchcraft was engrained deeply in society and was so heightened due to the uncertainty over whether or not it was real.
A wonderful old-fashioned romp of a story, well-researched historically, and not without humour. None of the sighs and shrugs usually abundant in historical romance, but plenty of crinkled foreheads. I enjoyed the depictions of the Puritans and Catholics. I didn't enjoy the depiction of the poor and disabled. The heroine, Margery, was a bit of a goody two shoes. First half of book was fascinating, second half was a slog, and there was no build up of tension to what I thought was a weak ending.
An amazing re-reading experience after almost 20 years. This is a beautifully told tale of events leading up to the Pendle Witch Trials, firmly grounded in the beliefs, customs and everyday life of the 17th Century. The characters are well drawn and, though perhaps a little unsubtle for modern readers, this does not detract from the strong story-telling.
One of my all-time favorite books from childhood. I often liked to read it around Halloween. A mystery set to the backdrop of the a real historical event of the Pendle witches. Love this book.Note: alternate title is "Mist Over Pendle" which I believe, is the title released in the UK.
My Halloween reading 2012.I first read this book when I was teenager at school - so that's long enough ago for me to have forgotten just how good this story is.The story of the Pendle witches is particularly relevant in 2012 as it is the four hundredth anniversary of the Lancashire witches.
This most famous of witch trials took place in the forest and hills of the North Lancashire moors, a place that was as cold, dark and inhospitable as the landscape.When Margery Whittaker is sent to live with a distant cousin in the wilds of Lancashire she is little prepared for the superstitious happenings which take place within days of her arrival.
Margery, the youngest sibling and misfit in her Puritan family, is sent to live with her kinsman Roger, who is also a Justice of the Peace in the small town of Pendle.
Margery assists Roger and becomes involved in some of the mysteries herself, as well as becoming friends with feuding families and risking harm to herself and Roger when she stirs the undercurrents of the Pendle community.I first read this book in grade school.
Margery is very strong, as are most of the women characters, albeit in different ways.
I could feel the threat emanating from the witches and feared for the young girls, Margery and Grace, in particular✔ The dialogue could be very amusing, the characters of both Roger and Margery made me smile on more than one occasion✔ The minor elements of romance (after all, she was there to find a dowry if not a husband) were handled delicately and left me smiling✖ The only negative aspect I found was that it was getting a little bogged down in the beginning with the descriptions of the area.
An enjoyable story. I really liked the character of Margery. A taste of what Pendle was like in 1612.
I cant say that this is anything like i would have expected,I enjoyed this book so much, fab writing style , wonderful characters , loved it.
A splendid piece of historical fiction.
I have reread this and although its a little dated it is a good read about the Pendle Witches.
(view spoiler)[The "witches" are committed for trial, and witchcraft is really only cited by Roger Nowell, when it becomes clear that a lady of means is using the coven to do her bidding (hide spoiler)].In Margery, Neill has created a wonderful, lively, intelligent central character; the sardonic cousin Roger is also beautifully drawn, as is the relationship between the two cousins.The book is a gentle read, and at times it does feel that things are moving a little slowly, but on the whole I found it and excellent read, full of evocative images of the landscape and weather.
First read this when I was 14, when I know I loved it.
Wonder if I still will?Enjoyed it but I discovered I'd forgotten lots about it.
I thought it covered their trial but it ends with the arrest of Alice Nuttall.
I grew up local to Pendle and was brought up to believe they were ignorant old women whose claim to be witches was the only way they could have any power or influence.
There's an argument that Alice was arrested because she was really a Catholic, not something that Neill addresses.Incidentally, I've known several people called Nutter and they all claim descent from Alice!
I first read this in my early teens and was fascinated by it. I've re-read it multiple times and still love it for the sheer detail and vividness of the writing. How far it strays from the historical truth I'm not enough of a historian to know, though it's fairly likely that the Pendle witch trials were the same sort of misogynistic scapegoating as all the others were.Still a lovely, enthralling, rather comforting read, particularly for chilly autumn evenings.
Not as I expected as there really was very little on the actual Pendle witches, the majority of the book focused around Margery’s Puritan family and how she likes her cousin Roger with a bit of romance thrown in when she meets another guy. It was only after the second half of the book that any mentions of witches began and then only very very slowly towards a bit of a dragged out ending. Sorry found it a bland read.
A friend recommended this read as it's set where she grew up and she has read it many times. Apart from the fact that the Pendle witch trials are scary and fascinating, the writing style adds to the enjoyment. The 'old fashioned' language is so evocative of the time period that the book draws you in further so you can really imagine being alone on a windy cold hillside, terrified of what you may find.
I really enjoyed this book. Being from where the book is set i found it very interesting and liked how it mentioned all the towns near to where i live. Although this kind of portrays the demdike lot to be poor and somewhat scruffy and Alice nutter to be the root of all evil and it was mainly her with the evil intent i still enjoyed it. More as a novel of characters than historically what happened i don't usually like to think of the Pendle witches as evil
This is one of my go to "comfort" books and his was the annual read of it! Margery Whittaker has gone to live with a distant cousin after the death of her mother, upon arriving from London she discovers that murder and witchcraft is what her cousin Roger is up against - she adds her wits to his and together they hope to find out what is happening and to try and stop it.  An interesting take on the Pendle Witch Trials.
Published in 1951, Mist Over Pendle is a series of fictional events leading up to the historic witch trials of 1612. Don't expect sorcery and witchcraft in the Dennis Wheatley/Harry Potter style, this has more than just a touch of gritty reality about it whilst still preserving a fine tale with humorous moments and some brilliant characters.
I love this book as I live in Lancashire and spend a large proportion of my life around this area, its been a part of my life since I was young, its a powerful and moving book, especially precious to me as its near my home, might not be that interesting if you are not familiar with the Lancashire Witch Trials.
Not what I imagined based on the cover blurb. Lots about dresses, horseriding, etiquette, men, & court proceedings. Not so much about Witchcraft, forests & mysterious mysteries! Ok, but not really what I had in mind when I started the book. This book is Historical Fiction, & I think the version I have got is very poorly represented by the cover Illustration & description.
Despite taking a stance I usually disagree with, that of witches being evil, this novel was an enjoyable read, mainly due to the wonderful wordcrafting. This beautifully written book transported me back to the 1600's where I cantered through verdant copses listening to the snow crunch under my horse's feet. This is a well written historical fiction.
This is a wonderfully old fashioned page turner. It has ooodles of atmosphere, a thrilling plot laced with plenty of horror and liberally sprinkled with romance and humour, lovable heroes and repellant villains.I have read this book many times and there are scenes I look forward to all the way through. It's the perfect comfort book - read it- you won't be disappointed.
This is the novel which first got me interested in historical fiction back in the mid 60s. I recently re-read it for its relevance to my current writing project (which is, in part, about the way in which stories of the supernatural gain currency). Enjoyed it just as much as I did half a century ago.
I liked the feel of this book and the setting of the Lancashire hills and moors that our protagonist finds herself in. I was interested in the history of witches and the religious history that this book provided, it just didn't quite deliver for me. I wanted to be genuinely unnerved by the demdikes and I wasn't!
