https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6335026-the-weight-of-silence
Because I know when my little girl goes missing I'll take time to reminisce about the time I bought my dad a color television set thirty years ago.The story is told from multiple points of view, so right off the bat we know exactly where the two girls are, and how they got there.
This kind of kills some of the suspense right there.On top of killing the suspense, it's makes the chapters told from the point of view of characters other than the two missing girls seem very boring and slow paced.
Silence is this novel’s binding theme, hammered home by her choice to have the main character Calli a selective mute; a theme that lifts it above the slew of other child abduction stories currently on the market.
What bugged me most was the police investigation, incompetent to the point of silliness.(view spoiler)[ Seriously, a professional search team doesn't notice the prints of a child being dragged away from her very own front yard?
Footnote: As a child the author was hearing impaired, personal experience with the weight of silence.
Explains the empathy breathed into Calli's character.“I ate my words that day.
It set the bar for future reads, and what a high bar it set!Two young girls, Calli and Petra; in a Southern American state go missing, after which follows the small town turning on itself and on each other.
There is the top suspect, Calli's alcoholic father, as well as the underlying mystery of Calli's selective mutism.The story moves between different POV including each of the young girls, the parents and also Callie's brother.
It is a fantastic mystery, unraveling the flaws and secrets of so many of the characters and I loved them all!
Even knowing the outcome I still love to get into the heads of the characters and its such a perfect setting.
Heather Gudenkauf is quickly becoming one of my favorite authors!Seven year old Calli Clark doesn't talk.
One day when she was four she suddenly stopped talking.
What could have happened to stop a happy, talkative child from uttering another word for three years?
Petra Gregory lives next door and is not just Calli's best friend she's also Calli's voice.
Then one summer morning the Gregory's and Clark's wake to find both girls missing.
Calli's mother, Antonia, and brother, Ben are sick with worry.
As the hours pass and the day becomes hotter there is still no sign of Calli or Petra.
There were some good moments, but all things considered, this reads like it was the author's first book and she has some growing to do.One thing I liked was that, though the author toys with the oh-so-trendy multiple narrator/first person writing in each chapter, the chapters from Calli, a select mute's, perspective were in third person past tense.
I don't know if Gudenkauf has written anything prior to/since this book's publication, but this novel indicates a young writer who has a lot of potential to grow into a good storyteller.
Heather, I don't know why I haven't read all of your books?!? This book took me on a wild ride! It was suspenseful with a good plot line and characterization. One slowly learns what happened to the girls through multiple perspectives. Good paced book that is a winner.
It reads as a thriller as it changes from one narrative voice to another and each person is experiencing the ordeal from a unique standpoint.
The pacing of the story was wonderful and did not give you a moment to rest after discovering a new piece of the puzzle, before it was plunging you again into the sad tale of these girls, leaving you on the edge of your seat once more.
Overall, however, I thought it was an amazing story and the plot pacing and development were both great.
This book strikes me as the work of a beginning author.
Calli, the main character, has none of the little-girl-charm that keeps readers glued.
Just because she doesn't talk doesn't mean she shouldn't have a personality!
Calli's dad, another abusive-angry-father stereotype (pretty easy to pull off), has an inconsistent character.
He is not mean enough to be feared by readers, yet he definitely doesn't earn the readers' sympathy.
His actions don't make a whit of sense throughout the story.The plot isn't even worthy of criticism because it is practically nonexistent.
The ending brought no real closure to this unnerving story, there were way too many strings left untied.

An absolutely amazing novel! I found it very hard to put this novel down. This is one of those books, were you're desperate to get to the end, to find out the outcome, but at the same time, you don't want the novel to end. Heather Gudenkauf writes from the perspective of each character, and her descriptions of the violence and the fear that surround Calli and Ben are both breathtaking and heart-wrenching.
Wouldn't put that past this writer.So let's go through our stock character collection: We've got the small time cop still pining for his lost love (he missed his chance at true love!), intellectual professor from humble roots (betcha didn't know a hog farmer could be all into book learnin'!), drunk wife beater with less subtlety than Snidely Whiplash (he pushed his pregnant wife down the stairs!
Two little girls are bestest friends, one dimensional characters, dumb mystery that's not actually a mystery, stir in some unrequited love filled with terrible flowery prose and READY SET WRITE!
Two seven year old girls, neighbours and best friends to one another, go missing from their respective homes on the same early summer morning.
The novel chronicles the search for the missing girls.
I love mysteries and suspenseful reads, but I generally anticipate these types of books to be plot driven at the expense of rich character development.
This narrative technique is quite successful, allowing for rich character development.
This book provided me with everything I could ask for in a contemporary novel, including, rich character development and suspense.
I tore through this book over two days...the author does a fantastic job with building suspense around the search for two missing little girls.
A few years back (OK, like 6, whatever, who's counting?) I read Heather Gudenkauf's second novel "These Things Hidden" and I loved it.
Had I read it before TTH, I probably would have liked it a lot more, but all the ways that TTH worked for me, this did not.
Because of the multiple perspectives, we know that the missing girls are not dead, and that takes a lot of the tension and suspense out of the story.
I thought I had read all of heathers books! Not sure how I missed this one! I literally could not put this down! The story the short quick chapters wanting to know what happened next! All of the above make for a great book! And didn’t see that coming!
Going into this book I had expected a mystery about two missing girls and while it does have its moments of suspense it was much more of a lighter character study of a group of broken souls.
The book starts off with a good amount of tension and I was easily pulled into the life of Callie, a seven-year-old selective mute who goes missing along with her best friend, Petra.The story is told via several different points of view and you're not going to like all of the characters who are quite flawed but most of whom have some redeeming quality.
An example is whether someone who you know is capable of doing bad things could escalate in their violence.This book has many points of view, to be more specific, Petra, their immediate family members, and Deputy Sheriff Lewis.This can make the book a little muddied but the narration of different narrators and stating each section with the person’s name helped me keep everything in order.
Think focusing on fewer people would have helped keep the focus on what was most important, which is the missing girls.The last thing I’ll mention is that I didn’t necessarily like the epilogue.
Still, I couldn't get my mind off of one problem while I was reading it.Calli Clark is a young girl, five or six years old, in a troubled family living in Willow Creek, a small, rural town.
Her mother, Toni, is a sweet, loving, woman who is too weak to confront her husband and rationalizes her acceptance of her husband's ways because she wants to keep her family together.Something has happened to Calli in the past that has caused her to stop speaking.
Calli is an intelligent young girl who can express herself clearly by writing.
Ji gali priversti jaustis lyg sulėtintame kine, pasimetimo, bejėgiškumo ir baimės apsuptyje.
Joje pateiktas nusikaltimas yra žiaurus ir pati istorija skamba kaip tikra non-fiction, bet prisipažinsiu – man palengvėjo kad ši knyga visgi yra vaizduotės vaisius.
Bet tai nereiškia kad tikrovėje taip nebūna.
Pats rašymo stilius ir pateikimas tikrai sužavėjo, o vat istorija man kartais priminė F1 su Pitstopais.
Žinoma grįžimai į praeitį yra svarbūs istorijos pateikimui.Kad ir kaip bebūtų, man tai ne trileris ar siaubo istorija - skaitant šią knygą ne kartą spėliojau ir jaudinausi kas čia bus toliau.
Tikrai emocionali, už širdies griebianti knyga, kurioje yra nemažai įtampos su įdomiu detektyviniu pateikimu.
For the most part this was an enjoyable read. Just a couple of things bugged me.The first was the multiple narrators. The chapters all read the same to me. If I got interrupted I often had to scroll back to the beginning of the chapter to find out who's pov it was.The side story of Petra felt like an after thought. And the ending. Everything was tied up a just little to neatly and left me feeling flat.
Such an amazing story! Absolutely loved this book.
What a great story full of secrets and who-did-it suspense! Keeps you guessing and interested throughout the entire book.As two seven year old girls are found missing from their beds, Calli a selective mute and Petra her best friend, the search begins in the woods near their home with Calli's father, a mean drunk who is supposedly away on a fishing trip a likely suspect. The story is told from each character's perspective, Ben, Calli's brother, the girl's parents and Assistant Sheriff Louis, Calli's mothers' high school sweetheart. Really enjoyed it!
This was a fast-paced thriller told in many different voices. It's not high brow literally but it's gripping and I read it in one sitting
Quick read and a page turner for me. The author kept me guesses as to who was responsible in hurting Petra.
Intense, Chilling, Suspenseful & Sad. Lots of twists & turns that keep you guessing until the end.
The novel reveals the experiences, situations, and decisions that led them to this point in the story.My take-aways from this novel are:(1) to remember that you do not know what other people are dealing with in their lives (alcoholism, abuse, bad marriages, childhood issues) or where they are coming from, so don't judge them, but help when you think you can (like little Petra speaking for Calli and Louis looking out for Toni).(2) to value the true friends that you have in life because they are such a blessing & you will be there for each other through thick and thin.
I also found it interesting how all, except one, of Ben's parts were written to Callie, as though he were talking to her instead of telling some unnamed reader a story.
We didn't really get to feel Toni coming to grips with the fact that Griff was the reason that Calli didn't speak, other than her brief "It was you" moment with him before he was killed.
The wrap-up was just a little too quick and tidy for me.I also got the feeling that I was supposed to feel some kind of relief that Griff had been killed, but the way the scene played out, I could only partially feel that.
Petra is Callie’s best friend and she does all the talking for Callie and seems to just know and sense what it is she wants to ask or say and says it for her.
Her brother Ben always looks out for her as well so Callie has lots of people to keep her occupied and interested.One day both Callie and her best friend Petra disappear and each character’s point of view is written chapter-by-chapter in the first person which is fine but the writing just lacks ‘something’.
2 young girls go missing one early morning and this book follows the day from many different character perspectives.
I loved how when one chapter ended, the next chapter picked up right where the last one left off, without leaving anything out for the audience.
Characters were very strong, and some of them you hated, and some you felt emotionally tied to.
I think that unfortunately, this types of broken households exist all too often today.The only downside to this book for me was the epilogue, I thought that the entire book was strong, and then the ending just didn't really seem necessary to get the point across.
This was a hard and heavy read.
The author does well at developing the characters.
She makes sure that you love some characters and hate others.
Intially, I was disappointed because I thought I had predicted the ending but I was so very wrong.
It took a completely different turn toward the end.
There were some moments, however, that I thought the author went into too much detail and I hoped she would just getto the point.
But, don't all good author's make you feel that way sometimes.
It sucked me in early and held me until the end.
