https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/144369.The_Four_Adventures_of_Richard_Hannay

This review also includes "The Island of Sheep" which is the 5th book to the Richard Hannay series.John Buchan is a master of the short adventure novel.
There's more gumption in a page of John Stuart Mill than in all that foreign trash") and the decent working men who "hate three things, the Germans, the profiteers, and the Irish." Then on to the Scottish isles, hidden messages, mysterious submarine landings in secluded bays, and chases across the hills, a change of disguise into an ordinary soldier, and flights and fights across Europe until the traitor is nailed.John Buchan's Mr. Standfast is one of more than a dozen adventure novels he wrote, including the better known Prester John, Thirty-Nine Steps, and Greenmantle, and the less known Courts of the Morning and Prince of the Captivity.
Either a holdover from each book’s original print edition or someone’s idea of fairness, trying to give each of the 350-or-so-page novels equal weight.
The horrors of World War I are never so clear as in The Guns of August (but GoA’s brevity helped make it a masterpiece--who could endure 1,000 pages of such enormous and senseless death?), still they build up to an ending in Mr. Standfast in which the speed and constancy of death are felt deeply, mitigated by a romantic tribute to friendship and heroism.Like everything I seem to be reading from this era, the ability to hide one’s identity seems a constant and critical factor in the mysteries.
Just the first few for now, but reading this on Pynchon's recommendation...The 39 Steps was great and fun, pretty interesting that it isn't anything like the film. Hitchcock had some fun with that!
We are here to praise the Buchan series.This volume gives you four books of the Richard Hannay sequence.
The second of these was made by Alfred Hitchcock who would later borrow heavily from the plot for the movies North by North West and the Man Who Knew too Much.We are introduced to Richard Hannay, a South African Mining Engineer returning to England where he falls in with a soon to be dead lady spy.
Buchan liked nature.Taken together these books are certainly what the British would call rattling good yarns.
Read 39 Steps and Greenmantle Again.
They have not the joy of being alive which is a kind of earnest of immortality.
. I know that my thoughts were chiefly about the jolly things that I had seen and done; not regret, but gratitude.
The panorama of blue noons on the veld unrolled itself before me, and hunter’s nights in the bush, the taste of food and sleep, the bitter stimulus of dawn, the joy of wild adventure, the voices of old staunch friends.
Dick Hannay on what he thinks is the cusp of his death.
435-6.I read Greenmantle, but my edition is a really spiffy cloth cover, Stodder and Houghton, 1963, I think from Britain.
A departure from my genres of choice (spy novel vs chick lit or historical romance) ...
So much so, that I only got through "The Thirty-Nine Steps" (which the TV adaptation did not seem to retain too much of?) and "Greenmantle" before I reached the "no-more-renewals-allowed" 7-week deadline at the local library.
Or maybe it's just 'cause I'm a lazy reader - when it's not work-related, I don't really want to have to think too much, I have realized.
The first two novellas (The Thirty-Nine Steps and Greenmantle) lay out the pattern for a century-long series of spy/persecution stories.
They do so with such a blistering lack of any self-awareness on the part of Buchan himself, much less his hero Hannay, that they leave us breathless.
The appearance of Woman at the heart of the Greenmantle plot staggers every one of the boys playing their boy games.
As Greenmantle sweeps its spies through the mystical East, it offers us a peek in on a dear, departed generation of blithe, breezy adventurers unfettered by political nicety.

I was introduced to this author by some friends in the late 90's. I have read and re-read them every since. They are great historical fiction tales, and are easy to read yet will challenge your vocabulary. One of my favorite words from  John Buchan is "aquascutum." There is a reference in the back for anyone curious to understand. Don't let that daunt you....it's nothing compared to reading Hawthorne. These are hard to lay down.
The beginning of the thriller genre. _The 39 Steps_ is the most famous, though the best of the novels here is _The Four Hostages_. And despite the attempts of the scholar who wrote the introduction to downplay Buchan's imperialism and racism.... phrases like "nigger band," and general discourse about how childish non-white societies are ARE both racist and imperialist. Yes, historical context explains a lot, but it doesn't really excuse anything, especially by the 1920s, when the last of these books appeared. Once you get past that crap, these are good reads.
I love spy fiction. I love early 20th Century fiction. So the Richard Hannay novels of John Buchan were a no brainer. The Thirty-Nine Steps is the most well-known, and justifiably so, but Greenmantle is his masterpiece. If you like Tom Clancy, if you can't get enough John Le Carre, run out and read these novels because John Buchan started it all.
I loved reading his books when I was a teenager. A friend loaned me this compilation so I could reread them. Mostly they have aged well (NOT the fourth one). They are very much of their time and now that seems so long ago. Note: The 39 Steps is NOTHING like the Cary Grant movie. Beware.
I've only read Thirty-Nine Steps and Greenmantle, but I know the others would be great too.
An interesting read--for the stories and to better understand the context of the early 20th century and its attitudes.
John Buchan was one of the first to write in the spy novel genre. These are old fashioned but still entertaining.
I enjoyed "The Thirty-Nine Steps". "Greenmantle" felt like a bit of a chore to get into.
