https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/413618.Random_Harvest
RANDOM HARVEST is one of the two James Hilton novels I re-read about every five years or so (the other is LOST HORIZON).It's an engrossing tale of a man who loses his memory due to being shelled in the Great War, eventually finds happiness with a young actress, and then is knocked down on a Liverpool street.
It seems she was his secretary after he returned to the family business...If this sounds vaguely familiar, it's because RANDOM HARVEST became one of the screen's best-loved romantic films in 1942, starring Ronald Colman and Greer Garson (this was the year of Miss Garson's Oscar triumph in MRS.
Reading a book by James Hilton should be accompanied by curling up in your most enveloping chair and having a cup of creamy coffee or tea to sip.
The main character suffers from two amnesias: after being injured in World War I, he recovers in several hospitals, but does not know his name or where he is from; then, after having a fall, he comes to on a Liverpool bench and remembers who he is and where home is, but does not remember the perod of time between his war injury and the present.
A mystery, a romance, a history of England between the wars.
An utterly spellbinding story of lost identity and lost love.I should confess I've always had a soft spot for the B&W movie, even though it is ridiculously melodramatic, or maybe because of that, but defintely because it starred the gloriously beautiful Greer Garson who could make a young boy roll up a sock and stuff it in his own mouth to prevent himself from crying with joy every time she appears on screen.The book is a beautifully structured story switching between first person and third, to tell the story of a WW1 shell shock victim who loses his memory (twice) and struggles to care about a world full of people who understand even less than he does.
He is best known today for two books that became blockbuster movies: Goodbye, Mr. Chips, and Lost Horizon, which gave the world Shangri-La. Random Harvest is a typical example of his work.
That is not its function, nor its virtue; it is a book written to help middle-aged, middle-class, politically moderate readers pass the time on trains, or fall asleep at nightAt this it succeeds wonderfully, if at the expense of a tendency to drag – a tendency that grows so pronounced at times that it prompted me to give the book three stars instead of the four it might otherwise have received.Writers like Hilton and Shute appealed mainly to the middle-class, more or less conservative English reader of their day.
I had seen "Random Harvest" with Ronald Coleman & Greer Garson some years ago but remembered the film which some areas were a little confusing like Kitty's relationship to Charles but other than that an enjoyable classic movie.
My reads are random as well as planned & "Random Harvest" was a random pick after looking at e books offers via an e mail.
What I found so intriguing about "Random Harvest" published in 1941 were the thoughts of the characters about both WW1 & WW2 and to me reading something that is written in times of crisis with an uncertain future is profound.
Reading something you've seen on the screen, or watching something on the screen that you've already read on paper always bring a bit of disappointment -- and it doesn't always matter which side gets the disappointment.
Part III finds him falling off of a curb and re-injuring himself and awakening to the knowledge of who he is but now with no knowledge of where he has been for the past 2 years.
I enjoyed the book, but reading a story plot that you already know can be a bit daunting and there was much of the book I felt was bogged down with details and descriptions that didn't bring value or clarity to the story.
I am struck afresh by the aptness and loving detail of Hilton's description of autumnal London:'For London...was of all cities in the world the most autumnal--its mellow brickwork harmonzing with fallen leaves and October sunsets, just as the etched grays of November composed themselves with the light and shade of Portland stone.
Indeed no phrase...better expressed the feeling of blanketed enclosure, of almost stupefying cosiness, that blankets London throughout the dark months--a sort of spiritual central heating, warm and sometimes weepy, but not depressing--a Dickensian, never a Proustian fug.'It is fascinating that the most interesting story is Mrs. Rainier's and here the novelist is silent.
She is central to the story yet at its periphery, as mysterious as Rebecca but without her malice.
I think this book is much better than "Good-bye Mr. Chips." Much more interesting and readable, to me. I enjoyed the story and the characters very much. Who wouldn't be intrigued by Charles Ranier? A fun book. (The movie is great, too. Greer Garson. I don't know if you should read the book first or see the movie first. They're a little different, but the movie might help you understand the book? I loved them both.)
It covers more than its story seems to, at first glance; it hides a thoughtfulness and a sadness that runs like a strand through many of Hilton's war-touched books.
It is likely not much of a spoiler that he does finally remember, of course, and we learn what happened to him during those two years, which he spent as John Smith, and in the end how those new memories affect his life and identity as Charles Rainier.I watched the movie before I realized it was a book by Hilton, and so was spoiled for an important part of the story.
There's something about James Hilton's novels that generates in me a powerful emotional connection to both the characters and the "idea" explored in the work--in this case, the vertigo, confusion, and desire to re-gain a lost past felt by Britons as they entered the darkest days of WWII.
(Indeed, the ending of that movie is among my favorites in classic Hollywood cinema.) Even so, I found myself surprised by the details and (important) subplots in Hilton's novel that were not emphasized on the big screen--specifically the events with the parson, who obviously represents the rapidly fading eccentric old England.
I read this for my RS book group, and we all came so excited to talk about it.
The problem is that you can't really talk about it unless you've read it, so I can't write much here without giving anything away.
Throughout the book his past is revealed.A couple of the people in our book group had also seen the movie adaptation starring Greer Garson.
They said the movie should really be seen as a companion to the book, because, while the book is from the man's point of view, the movie is from the woman's.
Another book I need to add to the "remember it all your life" and wonder about it Listopia. I would like to have been in a discussion group for this one maybe. This book seemed to me to have several different levels. I need to read it again 50 years later.
I first read this book 30 years ago and again last year. It is a story of love and loyalty after the First World War. The conclusion is one of the best I've ever read.
I watched the movie once a couple years ago and don't really remember it that well (I need to watch it again now), so I was eager to read the book.
The book is divided into 5 parts and goes from first person to third person, back to first, and so on.
Since it takes place from the end of WWI, travels through the 20s, and into the 30s, ending with the the outbreak of WWII, you really get a feel of what people were thinking and feeling.My only real complaint is the overabundance of swearing.
My grandma gifted this book to me and she said it was her favorite book of all time so I had to read it. It took me a while to get into, but after getting to the end, I was so surprised at how much I enjoyed it! "'What did you do in the Great War?' But even the most cynical of us couldn't see ahead to a time when the only logical answer to that question would be another one--WHICH Great War?'" -James Hilton
This is a very good story.... it's completely readable and well constructed. It is a tale of lost identity due to shell shock in the last world war, The main character has become a successful industrialist but has a two year gap in his memory. His personal life has remained detached and almost unnaturally unemotional but he continually seeks clues to those missing years. The reader gets his story in a series of flashbacks as one phase after another is revealed. There is an element of suspense...of mystery...of romance...which when all combined makes for memorable story.
Me adentraba yo en la literatura "de adultos" y aquella novela tuvo mucho significado para mí por eso mismo, por ser de las primeras que leí una vez dejado atrás a Verne, Salgari, etc.
La historia que se narra en Random Harvest me fascinó.
Quien conozca la obra seguramente estará de acuerdo en que es una historia estupenda.
Como anécdota personal me permito comentar que años atrás, siendo niño, se dió en México (mi país) una versión en calidad de radionovela, que mi abuela escuchaba todas las tardes.
I'm very surprised that I didn't like this; other reviews praise it for being engrossing, but I found most of it to be quite dull.
Charles Rainier is an English politician and businessman who can't remember a few years of his life due to a WWI head injury.
While set at the eve of WWII, most of the book is comprised of flashbacks to Rainier's life, eventually including scenes from his missing years.
Unfortunately, the book needs a shocking amount of editing; it is filled with tangents, superfluous characters, and a lot of talk about the state of England during and between the World Wars.
Charles Rainier is an English politician and businessman who can't remember a few years of his life due to a WWI head injury.
While set at the eve of WWII, most of the book is comprised of flashbacks to Rainier's life, eventually including scenes from his missing years.
Unfortunately, the book needs a shocking amount of editing; it is filled with tangents, superfluous characters, and a lot of talk about the state of England during and between the World Wars.
I hear there's a terrific movie version available; perhaps I'll like that better.
Charles Rainier has a rising political career, a beautiful and charming wife, a fine country home, and a successful business, but he is missing something - about 2 years of his life.
This is the story of his life, his romances, and his ultimately successful attempt to figure out who he is.I really enjoyed this book.
It is, but you don't get the payoff to the love story until the very end of the book, so the rest of the time, it just reads like the story of man torn between his family obligations and his own desires.
A novel about a man who wakes up one day in 1919 and finds he can’t remember anything about the last three years of his life.
I loved how it was all jumbled out of order, with the mystery of the story--what happened during those forgotten three years?--established from the very beginning.
The 1942 movie adaptation puts rather more emphasis on the romance aspect of the story, but I wouldn't really call the book a "romance." To me, it's more about a man being haunted by deja vu, and the process by which he remembers what he's forgotten.
I had not read this novel before, but found it extremely engrossing. The characters were well drawn, and I could picture what it was like to live in England between the World Wars. Not many books are set in this time period, especially if they don't have anything to do with the war. This book carried suspense all the way through, with a surprise ending that I didn't see coming. I would highly recommend it for a quiet and deep journey into the lives of some interesting people caught in a highly unusual situation.
this is one i keep reading over and over again. an amnesia story -- who is NOT fascinated with amnesia? if i got amnesia, and was lost somewhere and unidentifiable, what kind of life would i make for myself? how close would it be to the one i lost? what influences a person's choices? who is the real ME? a wonderful story, set in england, between the two world wars, and also a love story.
After seeing the movie with Ronald Coleman and Greer Garson, I really wanted to read the book. I wasn't disappointed. The movie doesn't exactly follow the book, but I still enjoyed both. The differences gave slightly different perspectives on the same interesting problem. James Hilton also wrote Lost Horizon and Good-bye, Mr. Chips. Loved both these books, as well.
Having read Mr. Chips and Lost Horizon as a child and having liked both of them, I took a risk on this otherwise unknown novel by the same author. Although it started slowly, I stuck with it and am glad I did, it's surprise ending having quite an emotional impact.
Interesting book.It's an interesting book but reads at times like a run on sentence. Had figured out the end, just a little before it happened.
And books such as Random Harvest and Hilton's other two earlier major works, Lost Horizon and Goodbye Mr. Chips fit the bill perfectly, even if they had already gained widespread popularity during their initial publication in the 1930s and early 1940s and in subsequent film versions.
And Hilton's work also gained a foothold as a sort of classic for the medium.Random Harvest, in particular, sounded a sympathetic chord both when it first appeared (1941) and later on.
In that atmosphere, the story of Charles Ranier, a wealthy business tycoon and veteran of World War I who had for some months during and following the Great War lost his memory, presented itself as a paean to earlier and better times of old English values.
This is true in Random Harvest although the sheer amount of time that goes by in the story leaves us readers wondering, is this man ever going to remember those lost key years?!?
Rainier awakens on a park bench in Liverpool in December 1919, with a regained knowledge of who he is and of his life up to the time of the injury, but now he has no recollection of what has happened since his war wounds.
Some readers of The Catcher in the Rye have identified the film version of Random Harvest as the movie Holden Caulfield saw at Radio City Music Hall and condemned as being silly and contrived.
Part II jumps back to Charlie’s return to England after recovering from his injuries with no memory of his war years.
The seven family members live idle lives made possible by dividends from the family’s sprawling business enterprises.
In the rapidly expanding market of the post-war era anyone could look good on a rising market but the company flounders on bloated and inefficient administration, bad loans, and ill-conceived speculation.
This book is so contemporaneous it often feels like it was written yesterday.Part IV follows Charlie’s escape from convalescent hospital to join a traveling vaudeville theatre group and Part V brings us back to his life as member of parliament and man about town.
The screenwriter did an excellent job of sticking to the heart of the story, erasing all the extraneous characters Hilton wastes space on, and generally getting on with telling a good story.I am glad I read the book for two reasons, though - the problem of the ages of the characters is not a problem in the book (sticking with two well-known stars for the entire story instead having younger actors play the younger selves of the main characters can, I suppose, be forgiven of 1940's Hollywood); and the question of what they were doing for money is answered in the prose.
