https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12820793-the-oath-of-the-vayuputras
(view spoiler)[Sati is killed in what was one the most unnecessary deaths I've come across in a book in a long time and Shiva goes crazy and decides he's going to destroy the entire city along with the people who knowingly, as well as unknowingly, have contributed to her death.
A funky mix of pseudo-science, pseudo-history and pseudo-mythology, The Oath of the Vayuputras marks a new low for this trilogy.
Amish ensures that anyone reading this book will emerge with a thoroughly muddled conception of Indian mythology and pre-history.
This would be a valuable asset when the movie comes out.I had criticized the plot mechanism in my previous review by comparing it to an Amar-Chitra Katha.
Amar-Chitra Kathas were really good, in fact.
And guess what, the book ends with a threat that Shiva willing, there might be more!PS.
But unless someone wants to contest me about the virtues of the book, I am not going to bother.
An unfitting end to a wonderful series.
Amish left the readers on such a high after the 2nd book that he had to hit a home run with this one or else, it was doomed to fail.
Sets one to expect more twists and turns in the point.
I am really disappointed with the way the story has ended, after being shaped up so beautifully (with the previous 2 books).It has all the elements of a typical Bollywood climax scene.
I cannot allow one failed book to change that fact.
Wonderful!The book is an abysmal end to a wonderful series.
Within the first 100 pages, I was haunted by the feeling that Amish Tripathi probably had the following written on a post-it that he stuck prominently to his screen when writing this book:1) Tie up all loose ends!2) Rationalize the legend and all actions around him!
However, to the author's credit, to pull off a story of this quality is in itself a huge achievement, and the Shiva series raises the bar higher than any Indian fiction has achieved in the fantasy/mythology space in a long time.Part of the disappointment for me, is due to my background as a science fiction fan.
A satisfying ending to a great saga Let me be honest. When I heard that Amish was writing his third and final novel to the Shiva Trilogy, I was kinda relieved. Thinking that we would finally get some closure to Shiva's life, I greedily picked up the book and went through with it. Now as I have turned the final page of India's most successful series in recent times, I sincerely wish it had gone on just a bit longer.The first 200 pages or so were quite boring and honest to God, I was planning to
When I heard that Amish was writing his third and final novel to the Shiva Trilogy, I was kinda relieved.
Thinking that we would finally get some closure to Shiva's life, I greedily picked up the book and went through with it.
Saying any further will only act as a spoiler since there are a lot of twists and turns each linked to each other in some way or another.Amish has definitely done a great job bringing closure to all the major characters in the trilogy.
Couldn't have asked for anything less or anything more.I would definitely love for Amish to continue writing such novels and entertaining us all the more.
It was never the literary genius of the author that made me continue reading the trilogy after The Immortals of Meh. Like I'd mentioned in my review of the book, I thought there was some imagination at work.
It also partially explains why this book is about 560 pages when the earlier two gave up in their attempts to touch 400.
In the last few pages of the book, Amish applies his final torture mechanism - making an attempt to retrofit (his) mythology with history - not just Indian, but Tibetan as well.
This requires a thorough research and extreme intelligence to present together.Speaking about this concluding book, Amish was successful in deciphering all the loose ends and leaving some to the imagination of the reader.
Certain chapters in the book suddenly make your eyes go wide and say "Wooow!!" The narration was very shrewd and the language was as pure as the intentions of the author.
The pace of the narration will make your eyes and fingers run across the pages and u never know where u landed but still connected with the plot.
Time and Money vacuum. Sigh!
I was really excited when I started ‘The Oath of Vayuputras’.
By the time I reached page no 91 (chapter#7) I closed the book and regretting that I ever started reading it.
Mr. Tripathi Amish, I am truly disappointed, shocked and heartbroken with ‘The Oath of The Vayuputras’, by the treatment you have given to the flow of the story, the characters, the discovery of ‘Evil’ and specially the main protagonist poor Mahadev (akka Shiva) himself.
One last thing to add, why in name of holy lake the book is named ‘THE OATH OF VAYUPUTRAS’???
There's no explanation for his behavior.2.The ending of the 2nd book hinted that Shiva's uncle was a Vayuputra, but that connection was not explored till almost the ending of the book.3.The Vayuputras were supposed to be aiding the Mahadev but they never contacted him (view spoiler)[ Mithra just gave Shiva the Pasupatiastra.
(hide spoiler)]4.Bhoomidevi's identity was not revealed.5.Logic of Parvateshwar, he says that he fights for Meluha, but by opposing Shiva is he not indirectly harming Meluha.
Shiva forgave Maharishi Brighu at the end as Shiva believes that Bhrigu was not the cause of Sati's death, whereas he was the cause that started the war in the first place.
Thrilling, tragic and heart-breaking are the three key-words that sum up my review even before it starts.The Oath of the Vayuputras is the Final book of The Shiva Triology written by a now improved writer Amish Tripathi.
I loved the way Amish built up the story to reach the crescendo.
And the way he achieved it!There are parts that will make you immensely sad, and parts that will break your heart and Amish provides no palliative care for the injuries, but I think he had no choice there.
The story had to proceed the way it did.The book is perfumed with war, death and hope.
i cried and i cried..........i loved it.glimpses of love that shiva and sati shared, the anger and hatred that i generated against daksha and the loss that lord shiva had to embrace was hardcore painful.i fell in love with shiva, his entire charisma and beliefs since the very first day i read meluha, thereafter nagas and now the oath of vayuputras. In all amish is an avid bhakt and at the end of the day i have turned into an avid bhakt..thank u amish for enlightening me with his strong significance in my life.
A book with violence and sadness all over. But then It was another great book to read. The description Amish wrote of every incident makes you feel that it is all real. All the relation , connections and events all of them. These three sets of books has totally impressed me.Good Job Amish
It was very overwritten, so much that it missed the biggest strength of the first book in series.
True it was story was of mythology of Shiva, Sati, Bhadra, Nandi and encompassed the geographies that we only heard about in history books kept it interesting.
Descriptions of temple and battle formations - the one mentioned in the first book and one the movie 300 so famously portrayed - became much bigger and all this information overload, often obstructing the flow of story.
Oh wait, but that can't happen yet, at least not in this decade since the Shiva in this book curses so often.
There was an element of suspense upto the end which you had to know.
Even though its fiction, the reader still need to connect to the mythical world and feel that you are within that.
Amish takes the reader out of it too often and too directly which makes you come out of the world and get disinterested too many times.The book broke the suspense far early and just made it into a war strategy book.
With the suspense already gone, you just wanna get it to end.
The book was all about war strategy and preparation and in the end, ...........
The final instalment of the Shiva trilogy consumed me completely and invoked a profusion of emotions within.
The sheer expectation of reaching the end of this epic masterpiece kept me on the edge and motivated to read till the last word.
In spite of a strong support system including his wife Sati, sons Ganesh and Kartik along with his most ardent followers, he may not succeed without the backing of this tribe chosen by Lord Rudra.
It has left me with more devotion, respect and adoration not only for the Mahadev but also for Lady Sati, Ganesh and Kartik.Om Namah Shivaay!
In a pure nuclear fusion weapon, two paramanoos, the smallest stable divisions of matter, are fused together to release tremendous destructive energy.
In a nuclear fission weapon, anoos, atomic particles, are broken down to release paramanoos, and this is also accompanied by a demonic release of devastating energy."What the hell is he talking about?
So, when molecules (anoos) are broken down to release atoms (paramanoos), it's a chemical process, not nuclear fission.
In actual nuclear fission, atoms (paramanoos) are broken down to release smaller atoms and atomic particles (eg neutrons).Conclusion: Either nuclear physics worked differently in ancient times or the author didn't do his research.
Amish has maintained the flow..the same amount of excitement, drama, action and most importantly the story line.
Fantastically written and wonderfully woven with facts and myths that difficult not to appreciate it.
What I most enjoyed were the discussions between Lord Gopal and Shiva.
The introduction of the Vayuputras and their connection to the story is so beautifully done.
The whole scene looks so real and plausible.
Evil has been explained in such a novel manner that it did not look scary or overwhelming, just something too obvious which no one noticed.
Loved the book.
Loved the narration.
However the book turned out to be a major disappointment.While the first two books of the triology were indeed examples of creative best and became a part of my all time favorite collection, third book fell completely flat.The author constantly emphasized that book covers the event that made shiva - Mahadev - The God of Gods?
But Mahadev's actions is supposed to be a legacy for the future (in author's word).
Or Shiva realized (by seeing Gopal and Mithara) you need not have any qualification to be the keeper of Mahadev's tribe?Execution==========Story moved at a slow pace, with a lot of discourse in Physics and brutal war fare.
Well, let me say I have mixed emotions. While I was pretty much hooked by 80% of the book, the rest disappointed me a lot. It starts with a roar and ends on a whimper. Clearly the character such as shiva deserved a better ending than the one he received. Some imaginations and conclusions were logical and brilliant, but overall I felt it was a neat endeavor which got a little ruffled towards the end. Keep your mind and heart open when you open the book. And control the sigh as you close it.
Was it really written by the same Amish who wrote the Immortals of Meluha? The second book was bit of a let down, but I had high expectations from the final book of the Shiva trilogy. The author rambles for 500+ pages with boring details trying to find a way to tie down all the loose ends and conveniently forgets the plot! The only part that touched my heart was when Shiva grieved sati.. The story had so much potential, wish Amish hadn't strayed from the original plot!
PLOT: 5/5CHARACTERS: 5/5LANGUAGE: 5/5CLIMAX: 3/5Had little expectations initially. But was a good overall read. The war strategies were brilliant. It was like reading Sun Tzu & Chanakya together. But the ending was very bad. Should have made the ending at par. Seems like Amish was in a hurry to finish up the book.
This is in line with his earlier 2 books where Amish/Shiva are constantly looking at the concept of good/evil and trying to make sense of it.
At the half way point most characters are introduced and established, so even that relief is lost to the reader in the second part of the novel.Other than the narrative, another problem I had with the novel was the ideas Amish postulates in it.
Amish should be praised for being the trendsetter in this genre in India but it's still a long way till we get a novel of the likes of 'The Historian'.
That is what you have done with your final book,Mr Tripathi.
I mean if Shiva had to use to pashupatiastra,then why take the pains of the first 40 chapters,slashing,routing,scarring and eventually 'ayurvatisng' every character possible?
he ends one of the most powerful and credible character of the book...
The first two books were really good,and hats off to you for making Indian mythology this interesting and this detailed.But alas.somehow alls well that ended in a gruel.In the entire series,HOW and WHEN did Shiva arrive at the answer himself?
A journey of a tribal leader , an uncouth barbarian to lord of lord , the Mahadev !
The Evil, which has been constantly talked about in the first two books of the trilogy gets finally revealed in The Oath Of The Vayuputras in the first 50 pages of the book when Shiva meets Brihaspati in the Naga Capital, Panchvati.
Shiva gathers his forces, Battles are fought, allies are formed and also Vayuputras come into the picture.
Amish has excelled in this department and has made the war on evil the highlight of this book.
Har Har Mahadev !
A lot of things were over-explained and repeated a bunch of times.
All the deceptions and war strategies of both sides were explained very plainly leaving no element of surprise.
The character of Kartik developed in this book and frankly, him and Sati's fight with a group of assassins were the only good parts.
The only evil you see in the entire trilogy now..is anger, not the Somras or any group of people or person.
People getting angry and overreacting and making bad decisions is tiring to read after having done that in 2 books already.
After reading The Oath of the Vayuputras I can simply say that its not the best of the Shiva Trilogy.
The only and major con of this novel is over explanations some chapters made me think that I'm reading my 5th standard Biology text book, and Amish continued this over explanation till the end.In my view he can simply end that novel with 50 chapters if he try to avoid the over explanations.
Otherwise this book is a good example of brilliant historical fiction I really enjoyed The Oath of the Vayuputras sometimes its make me laugh, sometimes its make me angry and sometimes its make me weep..
The Oath of the Vayuputras (Shiva Trilogy, #3), Amish Tripathi
finally i pre booked my copy...i am eagerly waiting.....
Sati's fearless, brave fight is worth watching. Unfortunately, it was some 30/575 pages long only.
