https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/270979.The_Fifteen_Streets
Marvelous. It's been entirely too long since I read one of Cookson's book. This is one of her early ones portraying the dire poverty and struggle of many in Tyneside, England. The storyline was gripping and I read almost straight through the last half without a break.

(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
The class difference provides a big conflict, not to mention his very difficult family situation; he has several siblings, including some real troublemakers, and a difficult father, and many responsibilities as the oldest.What I really like about Catherine Cookson is that while she writes these spectacular romances, the romance is never ALL that's going on in her stories.
And yet, she makes her characters so interesting and likable that it's not like you're skimming the parts of the book that don't have the leads interacting, which I often do in less well-written romance novels where basically the romance is the only interesting part of the story and the other scenes just provide a skeleton for the romantic moments.
Plain purple with the head and shoulders of Catherine Cookson pictured on it.Poor mean streets nicknamed "The Fifteen Streets".A family with two older sons - one good and one a baddie with a sick father and a mother who was the centre of the family and younger siblings.The goodie falls in love with the school teacher (daughter of a wealthy man) of his younger sister.
I am not saying anymore only that the plot becomes exciting and even if you are not a Catherine Cookson fan - I don't like all her books - this is a really good story.The film of the book is a favourite of mine too.
Don't waste your time with this depressing book. Nothing good happens in it. Oh I'm sure you can find deeper meaning in the family who is wealthy and moves into the district to help the people and I agree that that is the epitome of Christian living, other than that, nothing worth wasting your time on if you like to read for a lovely escape. If you like depressing books, go for it! You should love this one.
This book is brilliant. I love this book. My favourite Catherine Cookson book by far. I love the characters, the story telling and how the hardship and reality of life back then cames out of the pages. A fantastic book. The TV movie of 1989 is EXACTLY like the novel so well worth a watch.
Easy to read but very hard to put down. Storytelling at it's best.
Another Cookson classic, you can't go wrong.
Same old "love knows no bounds" kinda story. But good for single read. Too predictable.
Fantastic writing by Cookson, but rather sad ending.
Amazing!Just finished this book, my first Catherine Cookson novel, I couldn't put it down, loved it from beginning to end.
I recently discovered Catherine Cookson's prolific works.
Last week I read The Dwelling Place (1971) and I LOVED it.
The Dwelling Place has a more involved plot and more detailed character development.
The Dwelling Place was sad, but 15 Streets was just over the top depressing.
(view spoiler)[Two of the beloved characters die in 15 Streets and the bad guy who did it skips town AFTER also impregnating a "simple" girl and leaving her stranded too.
At least the bad guy (gal?) in Dwelling Place met her maker!
I will give Cookson another try.
I have read a good twenty Cookson books at this point and all except one have warranted at least three stars till now.
The subject matter did not really interest me as much as Cookson's usual choices.
Besides being about a very poor, struggling family on Fifteen Streets, it focuses on the late 1800s/ early 1900s religious tensions between Catholics and Pentecostals.
It has the usual dramatic twists that Cookson is famed for, but in this case they were predictable.
There is the "upstart" struggling to better himself, good sibling versus bad, and a woman attempting to saddle a poor fellow with a bairn that isn't his.
I have to admit i saw the film whilst on holiday, and i loved it!
So there was no doubt in my mind i would love the book!
It's alot darker than the film and i think that makes the ending more triumphant.
It is a little far fetched and in the reality of things i doubt that the ending would be so merry, but i love this book and the story is as old as time.
Well done Catherine Cookson i would recommend it to all who love a happy ending and struggle for it.
An excellent short novel from Cookson’s early 1950s period. This one has drama, tragedy and romance. The setting is one with which the author was familiar: a poverty-stricken strife-torn family in England’s Newcastle area at the turn of the century. It is mostly somber fare but is illuminated by ardent love-at-first-sight infatuation. Cookson explores the deep divide between the rising middle class and the underprivileged. Surprisingly, supernatural spiritualistic mind-over-matter beliefs and healing practices are woven into the narrative and contrasted with prescribed Catholic dogma. Two strong female characters who help to overcome societal antipathies are crucial to the book’s success.
I'm a big fan of Catherine Cookson but this one didn't really do it for me. I much prefer the dwelling place and the glass virgin in terms of plot and character, though this had some great moments.You can check out mine and a few friends' review of the TV adaptation of The Fifteen Streets here- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nC1kV... Warning - is entirely for comedy purposes, contains dodgy northern accents and gratuitous use of the word 'fisticuffs'.
Catherine Cookson is one of my favorite authors, and I've enjoyed most of her books. I think this was one of her early works before she became a popular author. It was difficult to read. She assumed that her readers would know some of the words she used, but I haven't even heard them. The ending begged for a sequel, but I hope she resisted the urge to follow this drama. Thank goodness she began to write well enough to be a favorite for so many people.
This is the third book of Cookson that I've read, and already it seems repetitive. I know, that this book was the first, but, unfortunately, Cookson used the same types and devices in later books in the same manner.Main character and his mother were almost repeated in in "The Menagerie", and "good priest, bad priest" pair seemed just too familiar after reading "The Maltese Angel".Probably, if I read this book first, I would like it better.
Cookson's tone is a little moralistic for me (think Louisa May Alcott) but you can always count on her for a happy ending where the good guy totally wins. This is one of my favorites of her books--I liked the protagonist couple that much. Also, you can find a lot of her stories in made-for-TV movies of varying levels of quality, so sometimes that's fun.
One of the very first books I ever read and one I have read many times. Such a wonderful story from such a wonderful storyteller. I always thought Catherine Cookson was a female version of Charles Dickens, of the few books of hers that I have read. I loved this tale and was so thrilled to see the happy ending.
Read this upon recommendation. It was a little hard to get into because of the dialect of the speakers. Set in Ireland, it's the story of a family living in a poor area. Quick read, but the ending wasn't clean and left me a little disappointed. The cover, by the way, is not an accurate portrayal of the book (if that sways you one way or the other).
I read all of Catherine Cookson's books some years ago and enjoyed them immensley. I recently re-read all of them and find that on a second look I found them all so very predictable, and was rather disappointed. However I'm sure that it is my tastes that have changed not the calibre of her story telling.
It's a pretty depressing book. Yes everyone else raves about the struggle for survival for lower classes but I'm more superficial. I don't enjoy books anymore that are so negative usually. At least the ending turned out ok. I'd rate it 3.5 if there were half stars. It took me a while to get into it though.
Great family saga, full of grit, sadness and truthful social and economic conditions of the north east shipping community of the time. An honest account of working class families, of affection, abusive relationships and complicated family dynamics. A favourite of mine to this day.
I discovered Catherine Cookson through a fellow Jane Austin loving friend. Cookson writes about a much different class of people with some serious hardships. I am captivated by her characters and plot lines. I will definitely read more of her books.
As in most of Cookson's books she writes with strong female characters overcoming some miserable circumstance or misfortune. I also love the English accents given her characters. If you like books set in old England and well developed characters, you will enjoy books by Catherine Cookson!
Life in the Fifteen Streets was tough - a continuous struggle for survival. Some families gave up and descended into a dismal state of constant poverty. Others, like the O'Briens, fought grimly for a world they were only rarely allowed to glimpse.
I have read most of Catherin Cookson's writings and am always captivated by the story and by the characters. She is one of my all-time favorite authors.
This was her first book and it was a joy, Catherine Cookson only got better.
