https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1102322.The_Stone_Angel
Of course, honey, of course it's going to be okay.She met the fiancée out for coffee, where the young woman nervously asked if she could go ahead and break off their engagement for her?She insisted he have the dignity of fresh, proper clothes every day instead of hospital gowns and she often laundered them well into the night, after driving the long commute home.She stayed every day, helped dress her grown son's broken body and held bent straws filled with water to his lips.And, at the year's end.
“Old age ain't no place for sissies.” ― Bette DavisMy mother died 27 years ago.
Still, like Hagar Shipley, she was petrified of being placed in a nursing home…which never happened.
This novel moves back and forth in time, tracing the life of Hagar Shipley, born Hagar Currie in the Canadian prairie town of Manawaka.
Hagar is a crotchety 90-year old currently living with her son, Marvin, and daughter-in-law, Doris.
But, I came to understand the source of her bitterness by the story's end.When her son and daughter-in-law suggest a move to a nursing home for her well-being (and their convenience) Hagar rebels.
Margaret Laurence 17 March 1957(letter written by ML to Adele Wiseman) First published in 1964, Canadian author, Margaret Laurence (often confused with Canada's other book writing "Margaret") tells the tale of 90 year old Hagar Shipley who in the last days of her life reflects back on a lifetime of memories.
It's probably a saving grace that I waited until I had witnessed the aging and death of three of my grandparents before experiencing this story.
But as a teen,when I still had active paternal grandparents who hadn't yet lost a child( a tragic death which aged them overnight), I don't think I would have quite enjoyed this bleak story very much.
I don't give 5 stars unless I truly believe that is what it is worth, and Stone Angel is worth the five and more, in my opinion.Hagar Shipley is a character you will never forget; stubborn, ornery, proud, locked in her own version of her world and unwilling to see it any other way until her dying breath.The novel opens with a quote from one of the best poems ever written;Do not go gentle into that good night.Rage, rage against the dying of the light.
And of course, it is always nice to read a story with a strong female lead - and you hardly get any stronger female leads than Hagar.
Tho, of course, one could argue that "strong" and "obnoxious" are not the same, and that Hagar's pride and stubbornness are more of a weakness than a strength.But was the book enjoyable?I can't say I loved it.
For all it's metaphorical word play and stoicism and irony - Hagar was pretty unlikeable, the characters around her were not that likable either, but I did admire the sass and gumption that the characters brought up in dealing with each other.I'll probably give Laurence's other books in this cycle a miss, tho.
I hated this book. I called it the 'Stoned Angel' because I think it would have been better if I were stoned on drugs at the time. as I told my teacher at the time of reading this book. "There have been women who have gone through far worse who aren't such b*tches." I could not relate to the character. yes, she had a hard life, but its hard to sympathize with her when she is making everyone around her's life just as miserable. Horrible boring read. Yes, its 'a Canadian classic,' but what does that say about Canadian literature?
Mr. Troy has chosen a bad day to call. The rib pain is not so intrusive this afternoon, but my belly growls and snarls like a separate beast. My bowels are locked today. I am Job in reverse, and neither cascara nor syrup of figs nor milk of magnesia will prevail against my unspeakable affliction. I sit uncomfortably. I am bloated, full, weighted down, and I fear I may pass wind. I remember my mother telling me, with great delight, that my younger brother was reading The Stone Angel in high scho
I know I didn't study this book in school, and although I thought I had read it before now, the only thing that stuck out in my memory as I devoured it this time is poor old Hagar's bowels.
Ruled by pride passed down from her Scotsman father, Hagar (Currie) Shipley withholds the little kindnesses throughout her life that could have smoothed the way both for herself and for the family that she keeps at arm's length, leading to disasters of varying degrees.
At the end of her life, Hagar finally overcomes the victimhood that pride has forced onto her, and through the joke and the lie, finally acts in the best interest of others.
She will not accede to leaving her own home, in which she is lives with her docile son Marvin and his wife Doris who bears the brunt of caring for Hagar, for a care facility and does not recognize how much less independent she has become.
She has dementia and struggles with her short term memory but is able to recall and tell her past.
She is far from likeable, yet after a short struggle acclimating myself to Laurence’s writing, I became fully engaged in the book.So much is done well here.
In that house of her marriage, she lives on to this final chapter in her life.
Now 90 years old, she has already lived with her son Marvin and his wife Doris for 17 years when they spring a surprise on her: they want to sell the house and move somewhere smaller, and they mean to send her to Silver Threads nursing home.
I was also reminded of Jane Smiley’s Midwest novels, and wondered if Carol Shields’s The Stone Diaries was possibly intended as an homage.I loved spending time in Hagar’s company, whether she’s marveling at how age has crept up on her—I feel that if I were to walk carefully up to my room, approach the mirror softly, take it by surprise, I would see there again that Hagar with the shining hair, the dark-maned colt off to the training ringtrying to picture life going on without her—Hard to imagine a world and I not in it.
Her biggest loss is that of her younger son, John, a tragedy that “transformed her into stone.” The stone angel is found in the Shipley family graveyard, and is a metaphor for Hagar’s transformation through grief and loss into this unbreakable, unreachable person.The novel alternates between Hagar in her ninetieth year, seeking to escape from being consigned to a nursing home by her older son Marvin and his wife Doris who are running out of energy to care for her, and her random memories of her past.
"Pride was my wilderness and the demon that led me there was fear. I was alone, never anything else, and never free, for I carried my chains within me, and they spread out from me and shackled all I touched." ♡
I’m a gothic mystery, paranormal fan; seldom enthusiastic without a ghost.
‘Manawaka’ is code for ‘Neepawa’, my fiancé’s hometown and we laughed together at ‘Galloping Mountain’.
It obviously doubled for ‘Riding Mountain’!
A shift occurred by the time Hagar takes her youngest son to a city.
The page time of the elderly storyteller outweighs it.
The 95 year-old version of our narrator is undeniably riveting.As present day Hagar dominates, sympathy skyrockets.
Then an astonishing, fast-paced adventure takes place, that rises to a fever pitch!
I’m awe-stricken by an author capable of weaving two vividly memorable threads, that culminate in the sharpest understanding.
Margaret Laurence lets you know.What I thought absolutely the most superlative in this whole novel?
It was that this author had Hagar always complaining of some mettle in or by "the other".
Or found, like Hagar, some road blocks signs of barricade which always screamed "I'm here, I'm here".
And I rode in the block-topped buggy beside the man who was now my mate."Hagar stayed strong (as did many women in this era) by cutting off all of her own mental and emotive sensibilities at the knees.
It gave her a feeling of control.
Hagar was mean.
As they unfold, we discover what has hardened her, and we grieve for the mistakes she makes.
It’s a meditative story, one that makes you think about what makes people the way they are, and how hard it is for them to change once they’re made.
It’s definitely not a happy story, yet I enjoyed every moment in this world.Margaret Laurence was unknown to me until now.
I’m so pleased to have found her (thank you Carol!), and will be reading more of her work soon.“I’ve often wondered why one discovers so many things too late.
Hagar Shipley doesn't have much to be proud of in her life.
But as she muses, narrates and slips through time, I felt so drawn to her character.
I identified with her in some ways that make me want to re-examine some deeply held assumptions in my own life.
Margaret Laurence so clearly "gets" human nature, what makes people tick and how easily we see faults in others, but not in ourselves.
I thought this book was brilliant.
I can't believe it was written 4 decades ago...
it could have come out this year.
I would strongly recommend this book to anyone!
On a personal note, having been reared, in part, by a great grandmother who lived in this same period of time, forever hiding her half-breed past and the murder of a wayward son, the character of Hagar hits close to home.
Hagar was essentially incapable of loving others, much like the stone angel, but this is a result of her inherited personality and the selected human traits she chose to manage the world she was born into.
Such is the case after reading The Stone Angel, a beautifully written story about a 90-year old woman looking back on her life as she grudgingly adjusts to her final years.Hagar Shipley is a delightful curmudgeon – witty, cutting, insightful, with a very human blend of both love and resentment for those closest to her.
Describing a sister who looked after her ailing mother: “I always felt she had only herself to blame, for she was a flimsy, gutless creature, bland as egg custard, caring with martyred devotion for an ungrateful fox-voiced mother year in and year out.“Living with her son Marvin and daughter-in-law Doris, her love-hate was constantly in play, over time and in any given conversation.
Apparently, Margaret Laurence is a long-time, well known author in Canada and this book (written in 1964) is a known literary favorite among Canadians (Robin, correct me if I'm wrong here!
I can see why!I've read several stories like this - older woman, reflecting on her life - regrets, highlights, etc.
Her ability to make Hagar Shipley so REAL and so interesting and so memorable is the true test of great writing.My sister made many comparisons between Hagar and our grandmother - I could certainly see that.
I love that Hagar knew she was old and dying, but stayed so true to her feisty character until the very end.

I literally dropped my final year of English class because of this book. It was the most dismal, self-congratulatory, spiteful, misandristic, boring piece of crap I've ever tried to read. And no, I never finished it.So guess what book we had to read a couple years later when I wanted to get my last English credit? That's right, The Stone f'n Angel. Strike two.Thank you Margaret Laurence for this piece of Canadiana nobody really wanted.
Hagar Shipley is one of the finest characters ever created in all literature, and The Stone Angel one of the best depictions of raging against the dying of the light. King Lear, Hagar Shipley. That's all one needs.
Her descriptions of small seemingly insignificant things are so masterfully written that her words paint pictures that enable us to see the beauty in the ordinary..It is so much more than a book about old Hagar Shipley.
It's not a sugar- coated story of an lovely old women..Rather, we hear her voice as she grows up in small town Canada and follow it through her lifetime making choices that shape her life and her families..
Written in the 60's..it's truth still reveals the complexities of family and our interdependence.
This book creates a great conflict within me.On one hand, it is exceptionally well written.
At no point does the characterization waver, the premise is good, and writing itself is fantastic.
On the other hand, I honestly do not like the main Hagar.
I feel as though she is one of the characters that you either come to love or hate with no in between, and I am not one of her fans.
I understand how many people love this book.
It is very well thought out and written, but my personal enjoyment of the book forces me to rate it low.
It reminded me of A Complicated Kindness, and not in a good way.
Summary: Prairie girl is raised to be proud and have manners and she keeps her stuck up attitude for the rest of her life, spiteful and causing pain to all around her, even herself.
At the end of her life, she feels kind of sorry that she wasn't more joyful, then keeps on being cranky until the end.
Stupid.This wasn't the kind of miserable that made you wonder at the human nature and perserverance.
This was the kind of miserable that made you miserable.
As a Canadian high school student, I was forced to read this unpleasant piece of trash. A crusty old woman bitches about her life and how miserable she is. The end. Fuck you Hagar Shipley...and you too, Margaret Laurence.
Absolutely wonderful! Will be adding a review later.
If novels were colors Laurence's would be a spectrum of browns, earthy greens and maybe a few touches of lavender.
Oh I do love discovering a new author.In this beautifully written novel, Margaret Laurence explores the life of one woman, Hagar Shipley, moving back and forth through different periods of her life.
She is sharp tongued, a difficult woman, devoid of warmth – she doesn’t give her son or daughter-in-law any credit.“I can’t change what’s happened to me in my life, or make what’s not occurred take place.
Hagar marries a man her father least wants her too – Bram Shipley is older, a widower with grown up daughters.
This is my first Margaret Laurence book, a bit of an awkward confession for someone who likes to push Canadian authours on fellow readers.
I think I have sometimes lumped all Canadian authours into a group called “Too Intellectual for Me” and as a result I have missed out on some great writing that I am only now beginning to enjoy.Hagar Shipley is the main character, an elderly widow living with her son and his wife.
She takes her uncashed old age security cheque, hides it in her purse and when Doris goes out to run errands, Hagar makes her escape.
I have decided you must be of a certain age to appreciate Stone Angel.
I must have reached that age.
I love the way Margaret Laurence takes the reader inside the head of an aging woman.
She's crusty and set in her ways…but at her age I might be, too.
I'm beginning to see the elderly in a different light.
The book only enhances the notion that we become the people we are because of our life experiences and we often misunderstand people around us.
An awakening of the concerns of the elderly around us.
