https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/947771.A_Vision
Lucien Carr, who killed Dave Kammerer with a Boy Scout knife, as a young football-playing John Kerouac went to the slammer over as well.
It's like recommending someone a film like House, Symbiopsychotaxiplasm, In a Glass Cage, or, say, a novel like The Making of Americans; i.e. I guess I could tell you what's going on, if you give me a second, but I'd just rather plague you with the thing(s) and see if you ever get back to me, if the mind-fuck brought something, good or bad, out of you.
This book is Yeats' synthesis of the 'automatic writings' and nocturnal speaking (talking while she was asleep, by spirits) from his wife.
Yeats finds his kooky theories proved in lots of different places, through other writers both contemporaries of his and from antiquity, and when he doesn't have proof he seems to have no trouble giving his own spin on things.
If anything this book proves that no matter how far out a theory you have you can and will find proof that you can't be wrong.
This book will spin you into a vortex of wild imaginings and gyre you around a philosophical hurdy-gurdy like no other book you will ever have read, enjoy.
life is round: we're stuck on this wheel. Living. And dying. An endless circle. Until. Someone breaks it. You came in here, you rupture the pattern. Bang: the whole world...gets wider...no seriously this is an interesting read. Beautiful, impossible, yet fantastic none the less
I read this and have no idea why.
I finished it and had absolutely no clue as to what he was talking about.
I'm not sure what I was expecting it other than I was reading a semi-obscure work by a very famous poet who was partly famous for his interest in the occult.
Even "occult" here is a stretch of a term for what Yeats might be talking, and the only thing left to say after finishing it was that it all has something to do with "gyres".
If you like gyres, you will LOVE A Vision by W.B. Yeats.
Vortexes, gyres, and visions. It's esoteric, yes, but a must-read if you're a fan of his later work. Get high and check it out.
There's debate whether this is a genuine work from Yeats, or if it's like Joyce's Finnegans Wake or Tarantula from Bob Dylan, i.e. a literary jest.
This review is from the genuine perspective.
There are a lot of esoteric references in this, and the material is very dense--as expected--but it's worth the effort needed in beginning to understand the ideas Yeats presents.
Don't be afraid if you don't understand more than 40% of the material, for there are numerous scholarly articles out there that will help to fill in any gaps.
At one level, it seems to be an eclectic attempt to fuse Hegelian metaphysics, astrology, neoplatonism and of course Yeats's own poetry. A few books of comparable abstruseness get written every decade or so. But the book is strangely effective, in a way that most other books in the "esoterica" category aren't. Doubtless this is due in large part to the author's own profound poetic sense. The overall effect is a book that moves over the border between philosophy and poetry as few other books can.
Nerd out on (Neo-) Platonism, the occult, mysticism? Compelled by Yeats' unique sense of aesthetic, poetic and philosophical structure and systematic thinking? Patient? Curious? Believe that there are immaterial truths worth exploring? Yes?Read.
5 stars for the edition. As for the contents, I can't avoid the thought that if Yeats had been French and written this forty years later no one would have thought he was nuts. And the advantage this has, over something like Ecrits, is that Yeats could manage the language he was using.
this is pretty heady stuff. interesting, i think, more because of its source -- WBY, a highly regarded literary figure and statesman. i mostly only read the introduction because i was less interested in the information communicated than by the process of the communion.
Liked this book less for the content itself and more for the insight it gives you into Yeats' poetry, especially his later, more Eastern-inspired stuff. Yeats was very much a genius, but also a bit of a whackjob.
Weird, weird, weird, even by my standards
I think I'm in love with this guy
yeats constructs confusing astrological systems and a weird mystical philosophy out of his wife's "automatic writings" and unconscious speech. creepy stuff.
another must read, a book, like its author, timelesscoming from the true master of poetry and literature in the English languageYeats is the biggest dog on the block

This book is interesting if you think that spirits communicate with the living by means of automatic writing in order to give complicated revelations of how history and personality work. Coincidentally, it's also interesting if you wonder what it feels like to be an insane person. At least there's some good advice for Ezra Pound in the beginning:"My Dear Ezra,Do not allow yourself to be elected to the senate of your country."
Not my cup of tea. Might be more enjoyable if you are into spiritualism, the paranormal or the occult.
Liking the poems and Michael Miley's inspired renditions of them, being interested in the occult milieu shared by W.B. Yeats and C.G. Jung, I picked up A Vision with considerable interest.
This may be an essential study for scholars wanting a full understanding of the poetry and the poet, but it was beyond me.
Indeed, I was disappointed by the poet's credulity and uncritical appropriation of such material.
A review read years later suggested that Yeats and his young wife may have unconsciously conspired to fabricate these "visions" in order to maintain interest in one another and so save their marriage.
Strange and awkward: not an easy read but worthwhile if you're curious about 20th C modernism and the occult.
Well it's certainly interesting I guess. Poetic, sure. But it is also sloppy, a bit nonsensical, and the definition of esoteric. I recommend reading this with Helen Vendler's book for clarity.
An endless circle... the great wheel.... self abuse, until the pattern is ruptured. The whole world gets wider.
Trippy.
http://www.yeatsvision.com/
