https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19528.The_Mandarins
A lot of people appear to dislike Les Mandarins, which I think is a pretty excellent novel, so let me try and explain what I think is good about it.
To me, it's basically about what happens to people (particularly to women) when they realize that they are no longer young.
To start off with, not being young means that you're no longer as physically attractive as you were.
Of course, you can go into denial, and say that as long as you eat healthily, exercise, and think positive thoughts, you're going to stay young and tasty for ever.
But let's be realistic.
I learned that Simone de Beauvoir was one smart cookie. I learned about existentialism for the first time and absuridty and the French resistance and Paris bars. I took this book to Paris and read it there. I went to the bars and cafes and read it there. I was on a late and horrible honeymoon and still have the book but the husband.....non
It’s a horrible thing, a woman who labors to lead a man’s hands to her body by appealing to his mind. The irony of the author of The Second Sex having published this five years after the previous kills me, it really does. What's worse is her having won the Prix Goncourt for it, a weighty stamp of approved literature prowess that says nothing less than, yes, this is how you discuss philosophical theories in the midst of love and warfare: trot the men out trigger happy and reduce the women to sel
What's worse is her having won the Prix Goncourt for it, a weighty stamp of approved literature prowess that says nothing less than, yes, this is how you discuss philosophical theories in the midst of love and warfare: trot the men out trigger happy and reduce the women to self-hating despair.
I can imagine a younger self of mine picking this up before TSS; imagining what would have inevitably resulted makes me sick.Beauvoir did not publicly declare herself a feminist till 1972.
Those up there are only a few of many of the wonderful things Beauvoir pens in regards to education, literature, the intersection of humanity with the written word.
I believe this to be her best work.
'The Mandarins' gives us a brilliant survey of the post-war French intellectual.
As a fan of the existentialist movement this was no-brainer for me to read, it's an expression of her unique style, represented with such vibrancy, that differs from the likes of Sartre.
There are a whole host of extremely memorable wise and life-enchanting characters, that were easily likeable, and a crisp and clean translation (before my French was any good) was an added benefit.
This was compulsive reading of the highest order.
A grand work, from one of the 20th century's great female writers.
This book is a bright light in a period of self-important post-war literature-- our 1984s and Wastelands-- in that it carefully avoids the moral preachiness and overabundant heavy-handed symbolism by which the supposed major works of this period are so weighed down.
The book raises some pretty significant questions about how to proceed in the task of finding meaning in a world which has fallen into such destructive violence and depravity.
But if you dig a little deeper this is a book that examines the origins of 20th Century liberalism and the collapse of post-war morality without a hint of the prejudice and preachiness of its contemporaries.
یک رمان دو جلدی با بیش از هزار صفحه که به وقایع جامعه روشنفکران فرانسه بعد جنگ جهانی دوم می پردازد، علیرغم حجم بالا، رمان از شیوه ی روایتی جذابی برخوردار است که در کنار وقایع داستان به حقایق تاریخی زیادی نیز اشاره می کند، سیمون دوبووار نویسنده ی رمان را بنیانگذار موج دوم فمینیست بعد جنگ جهانی دوم می دانند که در این رمان نیز زنانی با افکار متفاوت و از نسلهای مختلف وجود دارند که بنا به گفته ی منتقدین از افکار نویسنده و فلسفه ی خود وی در این زنان دیده میشود.
نه از این نظر که متن طولانیی دارند.
شخصیت ها کم کم واقعی میشن.
روز مره میشن.
چند روزی توی کتاب زندگی میکنم .
اولین بار تجربه ی این غرق شدن در فضای کتاب را با دن آرام داشتم و اینم دومین بار.
توی دویست سیصد صفحه ی اول حوصلم سر رفت جوری که چند بار کتاب را تصمیم گرفتم رها کنم ولی خوب شد که نکردم.
در پاریس ازاد شده به وسلیه ی امریکایی ها روشنفکر ها گیج اند.
هنوز کمونیسم روی زشت خودشو نشون نداده و خیلی ها طرفدارش اند.
این وسط احساسات دو زن باعث از خشکی در اومدن کتاب و جریان انرژی توی کتاب میشه....
Aussi, elle va partir en Amérique et rencontrer un bonhomme qui est le sosie de Nelson Algren ; mais bien sûr, toute ressemblance avec des personnes existantes ou ayant existé serait parfaitement fortuite.Sur le quatrième de couverture, l'auteure précise : "J'aurais souhaité qu'on prenne ce livre pour ce qu'il est ; ni une autobiographie, ni un reportage : une évocation." C'est bien joli tout ça, mais c'est quand même difficile de ne pas être tentée par l'interprétation autobiographique, d'autant que certains développements comportent de vrais morceaux (comme les yaourts) de philosophie sartrienne ou camusienne dedans.
شروع اثر نان فیکشن بزرگ و اثرگذاری مثل "جنس دوم جلد اول حقایق و اسطورهها" باعث شد تا نسبت به آثار داستانی دوبووار کنجکاو شم .
بعد از اثر کوچک مرگ آرام قرعه به نام ماندارن ها افتاد داستان از اولین لحظات اتمام جنگ جهانی دوم و آزادی فرانسه شروع میشه و تا اواسط دهه ی پنجاه ادامه پیدا می کنه .
ماندارن ها اثر بزرگ و پرماجراییه که تلاش عده ای از روشنفکران پاریس برای اثرگذاری در سیاست رو به تصویر می کشه و در این بین گریزی هم به مسائل عاطفی ، فمینیستی و فلسفی داره.
ارتباط "آن" با نویسنده ی امریکایی لوییس بروگن هم رابطه ی رمانتیک بین سیمون دوبووار و نلسون آلگرن رو تداعی می کنه به همون اندازه که دوبروی ، "سارتر" و هانری، " کامو" رو برای خواننده تداعی میکنه.با وجودی که شدت محتوای سیاسی داستان و حزب بازی و جنگ بین کمونیسم و کاپیتالیسم و فاشیسم و تلاش برای محاکمه و انتقام از همکاران نازیسم خیلی جاها بالا می زنه ولی اصلا حوصله مو سر نبرد (برخلاف تصور خودم از خودم ) کشش و جذابیت بالایی داشت که تو جلد دوم حتی دو برابر هم شد.
This book was absolutely amazing. It was written by one of the most brilliant minds of the twentieth century. The author was a great philosopher and phemonist of her era. I suggest all read this book and any others you can find by her.Enjoy and Be Blessed.Diamond
Now that's how to write a lightly fictionalized kiss 'n' tell memoir.
Una delle letture liceali che più mi appassionarono, all'epoca argomento di temi, interrogazioni ed elucubrazioni varie.Testimonianza straordinaria di quelle che sono state le mobilitazioni e le diverse prese di posizione da parte della "casta" intellettuale parigina nel secondo dopoguerra, in relazione ai vari avvenimenti sulla scena mondiale.
Sullo sfondo di una città che a poco a poco riprende a vivere dopo le vicende belliche, l'engagement trova piena realizzazione.E quale definizione migliore di engagement, se non quella data dalla stessa autrice che così scriveva: "l'engagement non è altro, in fondo, che la presenza totale dello scrittore alla scrittura".
Una lezione ancora valida per tanti intellettuali a distanza di oltre mezzo secolo.
This book reads like a French version of an Ayn Rand novel (and this is not compliment). "The Mandarins" is full of flat characters whose voices are scarcely distinguishable, awkward dialogue, insipidly clunky internal monologue, and a surprising lack of atmosphere (how can de Beauvoir make Paris so boring?). The book has pretensions to being philosophical and rich, but it is unfortunately dated and vapid. If this novel represents French intellectual life immediately following WWII, then its most impressive aspects must have been its lethargy and pedantry.
That was why I studied so avidly: only books and ideas were able to hold their own; they alone seemed real to me.There are so many things one would like to preserve with words but which are forever lost.'And it doesn't upset you to realize that things have been written that are far above anything you'll ever pound out?' Nadine asked in a vaguely irritated voice.'Literature isn't necessarily pleasant,' he said.
يك روز به نادين توضيح داده بود كه از مقايسه كردن خودش با ديگران پرهيز مي كند ولي لحظه هايي هم مي رسد كه آدم مجبور به اين كار مي شود ، ديگران به اين كار مجبورش مي كنند .نياز به كمك داشتم تا اين روزها را بگذرانم ، روزهايي كه هر ساعت آن بايستي ياد مي گرفتم و عادت مي كردم كه ديگر دوستم ندارد .من زنده ام و دوستت دارم : اين خودش خيلي چيزهاست .
The story meanders across the last half of a lifetime and is at times absolutely brilliant. The second chapter in and of itself is a masterpiece. I frequently read this portion on it's owns a random times in the year and it is able to bringing me to tears almost everytime.
Henri karakteri yazar Albert Camus'u, Anne karakteri Simone'nin kendisini, Anne'in kocası Robert ise tabi ki de Jean Paul Sartre'ı canlandırıyor.
Bu sebeple Simone'nin yaşadıkları dolayısıyla neler hissettiğini çok iyi bir şekilde anlayabiliyoruz.Nazilerin yenilmesinden sonra Paris entelektüelleri bir ikilemde kalırlar.
Stalin'in uyguladığı yöntemlere karşı olsalar da sosyalist bir Avrupa için Sovyetler Birliğine ihtiyaçları olduğunu düşünürler ama o dönemin komünistleriyle beraber çalışmaları imkansızdır.
Birleşip sol görüşlü ama komünist olmayan bir hareket kurmaya karar verirler.Tabi böyle olunca hainlikle suçlanma olasılığıyla karşı karşıya kalırlar.
Bu bir nevi o herkesin eşit olacağı muhteşem dünya hayallerinin sonu gibidir.Kitapta Henri ve Robert bir süre küs kalsalar da sonra yine barışırlar.
It's hard to separate what I think about this novel from how fascinating I find her as a person and a thinker.
It wasn't just the era she lived in, because Colette, born a generation before Simone, wrote many warm and appreciative portraits of women, and didn't delude herself about the flaws in the characters of the men she loved.One of the philosophical preoccupations of the novel is Sartre's idea of "Bad Faith", which as I interpret it, is the creation of a morality or an ideology that protects us from the anxiety of having to make choices about our life.
The Camus character in the novel is continually struggling with one anguished choice after the next about freedom, betrayal, life and death, but the choices of the women are limited to choices between one man and another.
It's the first of her fiction that I've read, and I was delighted to find that Simone de Beauvoir's characters were so varied and three-dimensional.
But they are not just well-drawn fictional characters; they are interesting people, the intellectuals of post-war France.
A couple of well-known (fictional) writers who were heavily engaged in the resistance during war years, continue to grapple with rebuilding a free France in the years after the war.
A successful psychoanalyst grapples with loyalty to her family now that her daughter is grown, and her marriage is deeply loving but sexless.
Yes, it's not big literature, it might not even be good literature, but it's close to my heart, I've read it in various key moments of my life and it has always given me something I needed.
What author nowadays would dare to reflect so openly and unashamedly about what it means to be an intellectual?
No one wants to be an intellectual nowadays, which is a pity, and stupid because what are we?
For me, this is a powerful exploration of what is important in life, and no, it never gets old to think about that.
for all of my bitching and moaning, this was one of those books that answered on one of those Rilkean crying out nights, and it did such a lovely job of telling at least three different stories, and yes, six hundred pages was sometimes a slog, and yes existentialism sometimes makes me reach for a sweater, but I still loved this book and it will be living in my head for a long time.
A fictional account of her relationship with Sartre and the friendship between Sartre and Camus, The Mandarins is a novel that deeply explores interpersonal relationships and gives the reader insight into what may have been between these three famous French intellectuals.
However, I think one of the valuable things about this book is that it seems to me that Beauvoir uses it to comment on their relationship, and on relationships, politics, and the world in general, through the use of fiction.
A great book.
Check out Ron Aaronson's book, Camus and Sartre: The Story of a Friendship and the Quarrel that Ended It to get some of the facts.
Da hat das Buch schon über tausend Seiten und für mich könnte es glatt nochmal so lang weitergehen.Seit langem habe ich endlich mal wieder etwas von Simone de Beauvoir gelesen und mich gleich wieder wohl gefühlt.
Man bangt, zweifelt, liebt und desillusioniert sich mit ihnen zusammen.Mir hat die Abwechslung zwischen den beiden Erzählweisen gut gefallen, auch wenn ich manchmal wegen der zeitlichen Überschneidung etwas verwirrt war.Zum Inhalt will ich eigentlich gar nicht viel sagen, man merkt, dass in Anne einiges autobiographisches steckt und sich auch Robert und Henri an Sartre und Camus orientieren - und zu wissen, dass sich ihre Liebesgeschichte ebenfalls an ihrem wahren unglücklichen Liebesleben mit dem amerikanischen Schriftsteller Algren orientiert (der übrigens gar nicht erfreut über dieses Buch war, das ihm sogar gewidmet ist), macht das ganze noch etwas intensiver für mich.
I enjoyed every page, reading it to me was an enriching journey. The post-war intellectuals struggle to survive and make a difference, was enlightening. I couldn't avoid comparing that to the state of the Egyptian resistance and the euphoria we lived in February 2011 and all the helplessness we fell in afterwards. I know a lot of differences lie in between. However the slight similarities touched my heart.
رواية رائعة بكل المقاييس و كعادة سيمون لغة بسيطة و معاني و تحليلات عميقة تتناول حياة الطبقة المثقفة بعد الحرب في فرنسا و تنتاول شخصيات جان بول سارتر و البير كامو محبي الفلسفة الوجودية سيفتتنوا بهذه الرواية ..
جالب بود چه به لحاظ شنخات کمونیسم و چه به لحاظ شناخت انسانها و تفکرات انسانی علی الخصوص زنان ، اینکه وقایع همسان یکبار از نگاه یک زن و یکبار از نگاه یک مرد روایت شده بود جز نقاط قوت کتاب بود و کمک زیادی به شناخت تفاوت های این دو جنس می کرد.
دوبوار، یار دیرینهٔ سارتر و پرچمدار مکتب اگزیستانسیالیست به حق میتوان گفت قلم گیرا و نافذی دارد.نویسنده ای ندیده ام که انقدر وجودگرایی را اینگونه ظریف و موزون در لابلای نوشته هایش اثردهد.رمان حاضر فراز نشیبها و حال و هوای دوران جوانی دوبوار را به تصویر کشیده است. دوران تجدد و ظهور افکار نو و گاها هنجار شکن پسامدرنیسم؛
af visse grunde ville jeg ikke give mandarinerne (bind 1, anne) fem stjerner, men den er oprigtig og deprimerende og ubehagelig, og det var vigtigt for mig. det, og så en række franske, intellektuelles saftige liv. dog skal man passe på, hvis man er typen, der sætter spørgsmålstegn ved sin eksistens. man kan ikke ligefrem kalde den feel good. (skolebog)
Opening at Christmas 1944, the first Christmas after the liberation, this follows our main characters through the last year of the war and into the aftermath as they struggle to deal with the fall-out of the Occupation, the reckoning of collaboration, and the uneasy negotiations between the socialist left and the communist party.This doesn't skim over any of the detail and is a rich source of history rendered on the page by de Beauvoir's acute and telling narrative.
