https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48335.The_Easter_Parade
Two sisters, Emily & Sarah Grimes are the leading ladies and both are looked at over the years, from youth to middle age, but not in a 'under the microscope' kind of way, because with Yates, he skims over the joys of motherhood, Aunthood, love, and friendship that punctuate life, and goes full tilt at the nasty stuff, wife-beaters, psychiatric hospitals, drunkenness, and heartbreak.
After all, Yates himself came from a broken home; his parents divorced when he was just three years old.
Sarah decides to marry the first man who comes along while Emily goes from partner to partner and is more in line with the typical “career girl.” Yet neither girl is content with the choices she has made and each seems to envy the other in some “grass is a little greener” sort of way.
It’s that sort of realism that I appreciated most reading Yates.
Liron Kroll - Composed photographs inspired by Richard Yates Novel The Easter Parade(http://www.lironkroll.com/The-Easter-...)“O Desfile de Primavera” do escritor norte-americano Richard Yates (1926 – 1992) conta a história de duas irmãs, Sarah e Emily Grimes.Liron Kroll - Composed photographs inspired by Richard Yates Novel The Easter ParadeLogo na primeira frase do livro o sentido da história fica definido – “Nenhuma das irmãs Grimes estava destinada a ser feliz, e olhando para o passado sempre houve a sensação de que os problemas começaram com o divórcio de seus pais.”Yates escreve de uma forma brilhante e concisa as vivências emocionais e temporais de duas irmãs, numa narrativa inquietante repleta de tristeza e solidão.Filhas de pais separados, com a mãe Pookie sempre presente, assistimos sem contemplações ao deambular por diferentes cenários das diversas personagens que nos vão sendo apresentadas e integradas nas várias histórias, com recurso a descrições minuciosas e melancólicas.
Madri e figlie“Né l’una né l’altra delle sorelle Grimes avrebbe avuto una vita felice, e a ripensarci si aveva sempre l’impressione che i guai fossero cominciati con il divorzio dei loro genitori”Yates avverte fin dall’incipit: questa è una storia di infelicità.
Una madre superficiale e inadeguata e di due figlie, Sarah e Emily, che ripercorrono lo stesso cammino fallimentare della madre.
E alla fine getta la spugna e rimane drammaticamente triste e sola.Nel libro aleggia la domanda se sia meglio un matrimonio e la famiglia oppure una vita indipendente con relazioni poco impegnative.
Non ci rimane che accettare che comunque agiamo abbiamo un triste destino di solitudine.
This is certainly the case for Emily and Sarah, two sisters from a broken home whose mostly absent father and unstable and alcoholic mother set up the blueprint for a lifetime of bad decisions and misery.
The opening line smacks you in the face with that promise, lest you think you're about to embark on a sunny journey "Neither of the Grimes sisters would have a happy life, and looking back it always seemed that the trouble began with their parents' divorce."Life for his characters is a series of disappointments and despair and Emily and Sarah spend their lives over four decades swimming against the tide and ultimately disintegrating.
Oh look! Here comes the Easter Parade! With plenty of floats!Oh, the floats!
Only Johnny Got His Gun can stand toe to toe with The Easter Parade in the unsettling, horrific way it takes one person's life (and in the case of Parade, several other people besides) and makes you ask yourself, Why the hell are we even here?
You know that's the wrong choice.
But with a casual swipe, fate/life or the characters' own decisions would send their lives violently askew.
He doesn't cajole his characters to make the wrong decision.
If you feel that life is a cruel mistress seeking your personal destruction, you'll find commiseration here.
He certainly wasn’t playing to his strength—that is, the deep, layered scene: the slow death of a party; the waning of an afternoon buzz; the polite prolongation of a tense visit; lives told in gesture; and dialogue so perfect you see speakers without description.
Narration so summary means thin, watery prose, a sketched outline of events rather than patient portrayal, and merely nominal protagonists.
In the especially weak middle section I wondered if the dimming of Yates’s reputation, from the 1960s on, wasn’t, you know, deserved.
It's been a few years since I've read "The Easter Parade," by Richard Yates.
Not only is the writing flawlessly rendered, the inevitable circumstances of sisters Emily and Sarah are presented with honesty, empathy and tremendous sensitivity by a master realist who knows exactly how alcoholic families live out their lives.
Her total meltdown in the final scene may be a little too raw and unhinged for my taste (and perhaps too similar to Andrew's vicious, over-the-top meltdown at the end of Part One), but I do appreciate just how insane and lost Yates's characters ultimately find themselves after all their dreams have been hopelessly dismissed.
Senza pelleLetto a cavallo tra il pomeriggio e la serata di oggi, tutto d'un fiato.Le parole di Rich
But I enjoy these types of stories, not because they uplift, but because they seem to help me understand what is inexplicable in my own life.
It is a story of two sisters who are damaged by divorce and time spent with a deeply flawed mother, who never could figure it out.
This story is about the fate that can await people who fail to find love and gain no comfort in religion.
It is, sadly, the story of many of our own kind, and Yates makes me care about those poor souls.
Yates dà un calcio a tutto questo e ci mostra la realtà nuda e cruda, quello che potrebbe essere e che tante volte, purtroppo E', senza concessioni al sentimentale smielato, senza false illusioni, senza riscatti nè resurrezioni.
Inutile far finta di non credere che Sarah ed Emily possano rispecchiare, purtroppo, tante donne di quegli anni e anche dei nostri, inutile pensare che la la felicità sia per tutti, inutile pensare che ognuno sia destinato a trovare ciò che cerca nella vita, indipendentemente dalle sue scelte e dalle sue azioni.
Né l'una né l'altra avrebbe avuto una vita felice... Richard Yates scrive, con incredibile sensibilità femminile, di due donne, due sorelle, due esistenze, due modi di vivere, di reagire; parla dei loro rapporti con gli uomini nella società americana che, dagli anni Trenta, scorre per altri quaranta, senza cambiamenti sostanziali; in quell’ambiente borghese intriso di superficialità, di convenzioni ipocrite e apparenze da salvare. Ma sopra tutto R.Y. descrive la famiglia, attraverso due paradig
Ma sopra tutto R.Y. descrive la famiglia, attraverso due paradigmi estremi e ancora, per tanti versi, attuali; la descrive senza sdolcinature, con estrema semplicità e con un senso realistico e crudo che ho apprezzato via via; con parole dosate e attraverso pochi cenni lascia il lettore libero di coinvolgersi in una visione ampia e completa.
E' un bel romanzo perché, come ha detto l’Autore stesso in una intervista: quando uno scrittore tenace e onesto riesce a guardare in faccia tutti gli orrori del mondo, ad affrontare la realtà e alla fine, malgrado tutto, è ancora in grado di tirar fuori un sofferto, gioioso inno alla vita, il risultato può essere una cosa stupenda.
Speri che ce la faccia perché Emmy, e Sara, rappresentano noi, le nostre amiche, quelle che la vita prende e sbatacchia in malo modo, che abbiano cercato la salvezza nel matrimonio, o nella carriera, nei figli o nella libertà di costumi.E gli uomini sembrano sempre qualcos’altro: il padre giornalista è solo un correttore di bozze, il cognato che sembra Laurence Olivier si rivelerà un violento, gli uomini di Emmy carte false che il vento si porta via l’uno dopo l’altro.
Un libro che, se ami Yates, non puoi fare a meno di leggere.Nei suoi libri si parla sempre di famiglia.
Loved it with reservations, so accessible and readable, the characters so well-drawn, the dialogue evocative of time and place and person, so much suggested about an insidious preoccuption with semblances, the importance of courage/strength/endurance, family, time, self, society, and even a suggestion of spirituality/hope/goodness toward the end.
Four stars because the conflicts seemed obvious (opposing personality-type sisters), Pookie the mother seemed obvious (sociable alkie keeping up appearances), Emily's lovers often seemed stereotypical or expected: the bisexual seafaring super-lover like Michelangelo's David, the neurotic chubby academic in need of some 21st century Cialis, the drunk poet (loved when they went to Iowa City), the perfect man in love with someone else.
In questo libro Yates affonda il bisturi, come un bravo chirurgo, nelle meschinità e nell’egoismo dell’animo umano, in particolare nella illusorietà dei legami della famiglia che appare essere la culla degli affetti, in realtà è la negazione del sentimento e la culla della solitudine.
E alla fine, riconosco che anche un viaggio nella steppa caucasica ha il suo fascino, soprattutto se si ha una guida eccezionalmente preparata come Richard Yates.
Even when it seems positive the overall pressure of the novel weighs down the positive and crushes it into the shape of bleak misery.Even this description of Emily's feeling for her latest boyfriend, which in normal circumstances would have been lovely, 160 pages in just re-inforces the bleak hopelessness of the reader's realization of the doom waiting just around that corner."He was big and sturdy, with a heavy jaw and a voice that made her want to curl up and ride in his pocket like a kitten".The tragedy of the women's failed lives is never really addressed in the sense that Yates has Emily saying towards the end of the book'I have never understood anything in my whole life'but this seems a ridiculously histrionic thing to say.
Romanzo autobiografico come tutti gli scritti di Richard Yates che girano e rigirano sempre attorno agli stessi temi: rapporti famigliari difficili, la solitudine, l’alcool come soluzione ai problemi.Yates ci racconta, nell’arco di un cinquantennio, le vite di Emily e Sally le due sorelle protagoniste di Easter Parade, le loro sono vite vissute in superficie, dolori, drammi, falle, imperfezioni dell’esistenza descritti come se fossero in fondo sopportabili, mi piego ma non mi spezzo, come se si potesse convivere con tutto e nonostante tutto, senza mai soffrire troppo.Non ho trovato in Yates tutto il dolore che pensavo, è un libro sulla ricerca della felicità, lo è?
¡Es magnífico! Como una mezcla de Philip Roth y Margaret Atwood (con perdón por las comparaciones).
In this sad and rich novel Richard Yates deftly portrays the lives of two women who suffer through decades of experience in this veil of tears.
Emily and Sarah may have had some great experiences, laughter and joy - but their author isn't interested in letting us know those moments.
Because the story of Emily and Sarah are reflections on the human condition - and whether or not the reader can identify personally with any of the 100 blows dealt to the Grimes girls over the years, one can definitely relate to the motifs of loss, regret and longing.
Poor Emily.
Sadly, I've known far too many women who were so much like Emily.
And far too many men who were just like the dorks she wasted her life on.Easter Parade is another dead-on perfect portrayal of mid-20th century middle-class American life from Mr. Yates.
I propose that the title be changed to "The Ether Parade." Lordy, how these people love to anesthetize themselves!
I actually even got some good laughs out of this book.
My favorite line: "I was a virgin when I got married and I've been a virgin ever since."
Quasi 5 stelleChe tristezza, che spreco! Buttare via così la vita nell'ignavia e nell'insoddisfazione, nell'alcool e nelle illusioni. Difficile scordarsi le 2 sorelle.E quanto autobiografico è questo romanzo. Yates è di un pessimismo cosmico, non c'è speranza, si nasce soli e si muore da soli. Nel frattempo ci si raccontano balle, ben sapendo che sono balle. Mi era piaciuto di più RR, ma caspita, anche questo che bel libro!
The book is devastating and depressing but it is beautiful.Note: Though I returned "Revolutionary Road" to library without reading it, I later on bought it :)May be a more like, not sure 2.5I really wanted to like this book because to begin with the writing looked promising and I felt kind of sure that I would really love it.
I have read tragedies before but this was....I don't know what to say.Yates writing is definitely fantastic and hence the book for me is a 2.5 otherwise it would have ranked much lower.
Un libro magnífico, de esos con poso que mejoran al cabo de los díashttp://entremontonesdelibros.blogspot...
- Richard Yates, The Easter Parade.
The revival of interest in the novels and stories of Richard Yates has been an unmistakeable recent literary phenomenon.
The Easter Parade tells the story of two sisters, Sarah and Emily Grimes, who come of age in New York City in the 1940s.
Sarah and Emily cope as best they can with their difficult childhood.
The style of The Easter Parade is concise and clear, which makes for a compact, yet powerful novel.
On the surface, the style of Richard Yates may seem unsentimental, even detached.
Despite critical acclaim – Revolutionary Road, his first and arguably greatest novel, was a finalist for the National Book Award in 1962 – Yates never achieved wide popularity.
The Easter Parade, like Revolutionary Road, is a searing portrayal of two seemingly ordinary people who might have been expected to lead ordinary but reasonably happy lives.
But there aren’t any happy lives in Richard Yates novels, at least not in these two books.
Reading Revolutionary Road, I thought Yates had brilliantly captured the social milieu of 1950’s suburbia and the stultifying business lives of that era’s young corporate lions.
Сара е типичната домакиня, жена, на която животът се случва точно както се очаква - брак, семейство, деца, къща, - но всъщност отвътре всичко е гнилоч.
Може би книгата разказва точно за това - различните видове самота - тази, да си сам без никой близък около себе си и самотата, сред другите.
Всичко звучи много реалистично - самотата, кризите, нещастният брак, разбитите мечти и страхът да имаш други.
Ричард Йеитс пресъздава вътрешната борба, която много често убива самите нас, а не демоните ни.Харесах книгата на автора и това, че никъде нищо не е напудрено и няма измислени хепиендове.
Hurt oozes from every page of this story, more explicitly than in much of Revolutionary Road, although the characters are generally somewhat flimsier.This is the story of two sisters who were 9 and 5 when their parents split up in 1930, after which they move around New York environs with their mother at regular intervals, always chasing “flair”, but without the means to achieve it.
Sarah, the older one, grows up to lead a conventional life (early marriage and children, long term domesticity), while Emily goes to college and leads a more liberated life, even before the term “women’s lib” was coined.Neither sister is close to the other or their mother; each is lonely in her own way, burdened by very different things, but unable to help themselves or each other to happiness.
Così, lo status di brillante giornalista del padre viene ridimensionato nel mero correttore di bozze pieno di rimpianti; la madre in cerca di “finezza” e di gratificazioni professionali annega nell’alcool e delira immaginandosi suocera di Kennedy; la bella Sarah, che un giorno di tanti anni prima ha partecipato alla sfilata pasquale in abito di seta, soccombe e sfiorisce immersa nella violenza di un rapporto matrimoniale avvilente, a dispetto del fatto che il suo consorte assomigli a Laurence Olivier; ed Emily, che pur avrebbe avuto la possibilità di ricattarsi, compie inesorabilmente scelte sbagliate, ritrovandosi disperata e sola a soli cinquant’anni.Le pagine di questo romanzo sono di un’angoscia quasi insostenibile, tanto che talvolta si avrebbe persino voglia di allontanarle da sé, ma al contempo sai che è bene ascoltare quel che raccontano, perché è proprio così che spesso la vita ti scivola tra le mani anche se non avresti voluto.Duro, amarissimo, ma molto bello.
Viata e plina de lucruri de acest fel.
...- Ai dreptate.- In legatura cu ce?- Viata  este  plina de lucruri de acest fel.
207.) Cand citeam acest roman in care nu se intampla nimic, m-a izbit acelasi sentiment pe care l-am avut cand citeam  Stoner  de John Williams.
Acesta este un roman despre doua surori si vietile lor - vieti banale as spune eu, suprapuse perfect normelor anilor in care se petrece actiunea ('40-'60).
Dar viata este cuvantul de baza in ceea ce priveste acest roman (si al recenziei mele unde am folosit intentionat acest cuvant).
I really love Yates, and this book had all the hallmarks of his usually great stuff--bleak family drama, characters' inability to cope or help themselves, the ennui of the modern corporate job.
But this was also the first time that Yates' ending seemed lazy to me.
The writing process is nothing to belittle or underestimate, but the more I read of Yates the more I believe that predominant bleakness has less artistic and entertainment merit if it fails to offer any hope or whiff of redemption.
I will continue to read him in hopes of finding an exception, but the shine has been taken off a bit.
Este romance, de estrutura tripartida, percorre quarenta anos da vida e da sociedade norte-americana, pautando-se por uma prosa crua e austera, porém ainda é visível uma profunda sentimentalidade, constituindo um “romance elegante, comovente” segundo The Washington Post. Resta dizer que esta obra magistral faz uma incrível radiografia ao american way of life, com uma mestria a que Yates nos habituou.
Изключително фин стил на писане. Очарована съм от изказа на Йейтс - рядко се среща такава прецизност. С малко думи да кажеш много.Другата приятна изненада - дълбокото познание и разбиране на женската душа. Изградените женски образи са толкова пълнокръвни, сякаш са автобиографични.
С жалост бих казала, че американският писател Ричард Йейтс е не само забравен от много поколения, но и неизвестен на много хора в днешно време. Неговият роман „Великденското шествие“ привлича със своя реализъм, с начина по-който авторът му не се страхува да изрече и най-болезнените истини за живота. Йейтс буди съчувствието ни към жените, чийто живот не е лесен, правейки романа същевременно тъжен, но и красив, трогателен, но и реалистичен. Йейст е определен от критиците като един от най-значимите следвоенни американски автори на романи и разкази и един от най-великите американски писатели на XX век.Линк към ревюто ми - https://kibea.net/press/2084
Doloroso rovescio della medaglia del mito americano. Nel contempo la famiglia non è sempre un nido accogliente, al contrario può rappresentare un vincolo opprimente. Scrittura essenziale, ma piacevole.
Anche perché si tifa per loro fino alla fine, si spera che quel flebile raggio di luce e di speranza che sembra illuminare ogni tanto gli eventi si rafforza e almeno una ce la faccia.
Yates non riesce a sottrarsi al proprio destino di scrittore di perdenti e così Sarah fa una fine ingloriosa e pure Emily.
Le vite delle due sorelle si dipanano con una costante dei romanzi di questo periodo (non è che Yates non fosse in buona compagnia nel suo pessimismo cosmico), lo spreco e l'alcool.
This book left me with the question: How can Richard Yates make such depressing material so enjoyable to read?The Easter Parade is probably Yates second most well-known book after Revolutionary Road which I read a couple of years ago and loved.
What I liked about this book was that it didn't follow a marriage, but this time followed the lives of two sisters, allowing a glimpse into their very different lives.The story follows two sisters, Sarah and Emily Grimes, and is told from the younger sister Emily's perspective.
If you're not sure where to go after Revolutionary Road, I'd highly recommend The Easter Parade.
Sarah ve Emily..İki kız kardeşi izliyoruz anne babalarının boşanmalarının ardından.Farklı yollara gitmeleri ya da kişiliklerinin tamamen zıt olmaları küçük birer ayrıntı olarak kalıyor çünkü çok daha derinlerde başka şeyler var.Kadınlık,aşk,parçalara ayrılıp çözünen hayaller ve bir türlü dikiş tutturamama hali~Büyük olaylar yok bu kitapta ama her detay fazla gerçek,fazla yalın.Süslemiyor yazar yaşananları.Sarah kadar Emily için de üzülüyoruz,Pookie’nin bitmek tükenmez enerjisine hayran kalıyoruz..İki kardeşin hikayesinde bağımsızlık hareketleri,feminizm ve süren savaşın izlerini de yakalıyoruz..Basitliğiyle dahi akılda kalıcı bir eser “mutluluk fotoğrafı”..
So, Yates created two tragic characters: one was unlucky at love and the other one was a drunk.
The unlucky one meets a guy who has problems getting it up, he tells her to give him a year, after the year they marry, and he's still unable to get it up, so they divorce and she moves on to a slew of lovers ending up entirely alone.
The drunk one dies of liver disease.
Nobody wins the lottery, nobody leaves the abusive husband, nobody finds true love in the unimpressive stranger, nobody learns a lesson, Charlie Brown doesn't finally kick the football.
Gran libro. Da mettere nel cestone del Novecento americano che conta. A trovargli un difetto, direi che per i miei gusti è un po' monotematico, quasi semplice nel suo svolgimento lineare. Ma alla fine sono le mie solite paranoie. Non fidatevi e andrà benissimo. [74/100]
I read this short novel years ago and I found it very sad yet emotionally powerful. It made me think of Henry David Thoreau, who said, "Most people lead lives of quiet desperation and go to their graves with song still in their heart."
The first thing I must say about this book, and what struck me most throughout is Richard Yates' understanding of how to write from a woman's perspective.
I know most of the characters in this book and I think this was why I couldn't put it down.The thing with Emily Grimes is, after a while you start to think that she actually isn't an especially likable protagonist.
Probably, a lot of people go through their lives just like Emily Grimes and don't have the foresight or the courage or maybe even the strength to do what they know is really the right thing.
Che libro triste.
Non c'è un altro modo per definirlo...la vita dei personaggi più va avanti più diventa peggio.
È una caduta verso un destino di pazzia, morte, solitudine...persone mediocri, non sanno reagire, non sanno difendersi, non sanno cambiare.
Ma d'altronde Yates lo dice dall'inizio " nessuna delle due avrebbe avuto una vita felice", il libro si legge velocemente perché scritto in modo scorrevole, semplice, un resoconto della vita di due sorelle infelici appunto.
La disperazione della normalità...gli do 3 stelle perché non mi ha colpito così tanto, forse è lo stile, troppo semplice..probabilmente glie ne avrei date 4 se fosse stato più lungo e più descrittivo.
cam 3,5 ca sa fiu mai precisa.
Книгата е страхотна. Стилът на Йейтс е простичък, без претрупване, но докосва душата. Докато я четях направо се бях пренесла там, в живота на двете сестри. Цялото отчаяние и безнадеждност сякаш се просмукват от страниците именно чрез простичките разговори, а на места и чрез това, което е останало ненаписано и само загатнато. Хареса ми и че книгата някак неминуемо кара читателя да помисли и за собствения си живот.
