https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6977769-61-hours
There's only one reason I can't nudge it up to 4 stars, which I'll explain at the end of the review (with plenty of advance warning.)Jack Reacher novels fall into two categories.
And of course, the town has problems only Jack can fix.
Murders in town, a mysterious abandoned military site a few miles away, a biker in the local prison, and a midget called Plato down in Mexico all combine to give Reacher's solving skills a workout.
I don't mind not knowing everything, but we should at least get to find out how Jack escaped from the explosion and see him exiting town with another successful problem taken care of.
He called out, ‘Do you think you can beat me?’ Reacher called back, ‘Do you think bears shit in the woods?’  Want a straight forward read? Small crisp sentences? Great details? Some ass kicking? Deadpan humor? Riveting storyline and yet easy to put down? A book to work as a filler before you pick the next big series or a tome? Or a book that won’t require the complete attention of your faculties? A kickass lead? Cold hard calculations? Things going boom? Well, look no further! Lee Child is her
If you have even a small thing for Reacher books, you’ll end up really liking this one!
I have stuck around with this series for quite a while now and this book has to be one of the best in the series for me personally.Jack Reacher books come in varieties.
I think Reacher is the closest thing I have read to what you can call an Anti-Hero.
I think for the first time in this series, Lee Child has ended a book on a cliffhanger!
Most people find or think Reacher books are slow and repetitive.
I think that’s what actually makes them good and true to the character of Jack Reacher.
4.25 starsAnother unputdownable read by Lee Child.As usual, this one didn't disappoint. I liked how suspenseful and gripping the story was. I thoroughly enjoyed reading this installment, the real page-turner, from start to finish.My only minor complaint is that the action scene near the end of the book lacked a bit of excitement and intensity. I was just expecting something a little more action-packed and heart-pounding. Nevertheless, it was a good and engaging read with a clever plot. If you’re a crime-mystery/thriller/suspense fan, then you shouldn’t miss out on this series.**This book can be read as a standalone.
Those of us in the thriller game talk about building suspense with the "ticking clock": a hard deadline that the characters are up against.
He imbeds an almost literal ticking clock in every chapter, ending each one with the reminder that there are "X hours to go." It's such an obvious device that it's like the magician showing you how the trick is done, but it still works-- you still gasp and chuckle with delight as you see the trick pulled off.
Reacher's immediate problem, however, is keeping a flinty old lady alive after she witnesses a drug deal that implicates the minions of said nasty villain.
I've been reading them out of order but I gotta admit, I can't get enough of these Jack Reacher novels. The writing is tight, the plots are great, and pacing is dead on. Lee, if I send you a case of energy drinks and a lifetime supply of cigarettes, any chance you can kick it up to two novels a year?
Having said that, this book did not disappoint and I dare you to read it and find otherwise.)The clock is ticking....61 hours….enough time for Reacher to become fully embroiled in another action-packed adventure….you betcha!61 Hours is Lee Child’s latest book, the 14th for the Jack Reacher series.
The clock is ticking….61 hours….will this be enough time for Reacher to be the hero we know he is?I read 61 Hours whilst I was on holiday in Bali.
As always with Lee Child’s books I am engrossed from the first sentence and if you want to interrupt me whilst I’m reading you had better have a really good reason to do so.
Does Jack Reacher ever brush his teeth?Lee Child goes into a lot of detail about how his hulking protagonist drifts around the United States with literally no possessions -- not even a backpack -- and how he buys a new set of clothes every week and throws away the old set.
He's not described with one.If Child were more vague about Reacher's life on the road, I'd never even consider these things, but he goes into such detail about Reacher's clothing-buying habits that he creates a whole new set of questions.He goes into detail about a lot of things.
Let's get this straight - this isn't deep.
It's not literary.
But when I wanted a light read at my in-laws over Christmas, this was just about perfect.
It's not taxing, but neither is it the incredibly short chapters and no-mystery-at-all of a James Patterson book.
That's a good move - the staple of J.K. Rowling, when it came to Snape.
Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
This is a plausible point, as not everyone will read all of the Jack Reacher books and they need to learn about the protagonist.However in 61 Hours you are given a lengthy character back history half way through the book, which is a poor edit, as you really need this earlier in the book so you can invest emotion and sympathise with the main character.
Seems Lee completed the book, thought it was too short and then during the editing phase bulked up the book by putting boring descriptions in which detract from what could have been a reasonable book.
Another great Reacher story. That's really all you need to know. Sit back, hold on, and enjoy the ride.
Usually Reacher books are full of non-stop action, and fans of the series come to expect it.
Seeing how Reacher reacts in crazy circumstances is part of the fun of reading his books.
By the time you find a little bit of action in the very last pages of the book, it's too little & too late.Third, the plot.
You think you know what's going to happen, then something else happens and you realize you were way off - usually this happens at least 4 or 5 times in one Reacher book.
I can't remember this ever happening in another Reacher book.
The biker gang works for Plato, a Mexican drug lord who does very bad things to people.REVIEWER’S OPINION:Not the best Reacher story.
(Hint: We know he lives because there are sequels.) The sequel “Worth Dying For” begins a couple days after “61 Hours.” WDF has a brief comment about how Reacher survived at the end of 61H.
When the monster appeared on the screen all the kids leaned back in their seats with fear on their faces - except for 6-year-old Reacher.
Ending: mostly good but unfinished.THE SERIES:							Following is a list of the Jack Reacher books in order with my ratings.
Let the countdown begin!
Jack Reacher, what can I say?
He's the hard-nosed homeboy you want to get your back.
Even in the middle of the winter in the middle of the wilds of South Dakota, he can outwit a meth kingpin and come out smelling like roses.
The dialogue here strikes me as snappier than usual.
This time out he also sparks a long-distance romance with the current commander of his old crack MP outfit.
We also learn a lot of personal details on Jack's background.
So, if you enjoy the ride--even if implausible plot but always rollicking fun--then climb aboard the Jack Reacher rocketship.
61 Hours might be one of my least favourites in the series so far, but it was still an enjoyable read the ending saved the story for me.
Reacher coming to the rescue, saving everybody and heading off at the end of the story for his next adventure.
A lot of my enjoyment in these books also comes from the characters Reacher spends time with in the story.
It’s a good instalment into the series however it isn’t one I’d recommend new readers pick up first.
61 Hours is the first book I have read by Lee Child.
All his books feature the all action hero Jack Reacher who was drummed out of a military elite unit some years before and now seems to live a rootless existence, moving from place to place getting involved in all kinds of situations.
It’s never going to win the Booker Prize but once you have read one of his books I get the feeling you will know exactly what you are going to get with the next one, and as a guy that likes all action hero thriller, that is fine by me.
It’s all a bit dysfunctional, as the police department has expanded dramatically; and there’s a mixture of old and new employees who aren’t all very skilled at what they do.
One important assignment that the police have is to protect an elderly resident, Mrs. Salter, who is the sole witness willing to testify against a local biker gang.
There’s one problem with the situation, an agreement with the prison that if their siren sounds, every police officer in the town will respond to the call.
Throughout the book, there is a countdown, beginning at 61 hours, for something that is going to happen, although we don’t know what that is.
Child does not belabor this bit of exposition because it is plain from Reacher's size (6-6 and variously 230-260 pounds) and superior hand-to-hand dirty-fighting ability.
In one novel, Reacher recalled that he mostly finished near the top and once won in series of world-wide military long-range shooting competitions.
This is manifested by Reacher's predilection for competent women in the military and law-enforcement.
Other "objections" accrue to Child/Reacher's occasional comment on US foreign policy and perhaps to Child's general critique of the police and the military.
Child shows that competence exists everywhere - especially among the villains.
Telegraficamente:È un Reacher in formissima (anche se tecnicamente non ne rimorchia nessuna, stavolta);L’assassino si capisce abbastanza facilmente a metà dell’opera o anche prima;Lee Child ci mette talmente tanto del suo che, nonostante quanto detto al punto precedente, la lettura non ne risente, anzi: ti risucchia verso la fine;Posso dormire per una volta tranquilla, che stavolta il South Dakota non è esattamente un posto che mette i brividi. Anzi no, scherzavo: -28 gradi è alquanto gelido. Però, alla fin della fiera, è meno gratuitamente sadico che in altre vicende, Lee.
So ever since then 61 hours has been stuck in my head a "to-read" book.For the record, this is my first Lee Child's book and my first introduction to Jack Reacher.It will most likely be my last.When Child presented his story to us in a snowy and cold South Dakota, and the bus crashed, I was like ok, I'm confused, but I'll keep going.
The only reason I kept going was because I had this hope that it would pick up or get better, because it made that list!Needless to say, I was sorely mistaken.Janet was interesting, but maybe that's because I love books and wanted to be trapped in her house for days.
That's why I love Reacher, as he's one of the good guys.This is another great Reacher book and if you've enjoyed the others, I'm pretty sure you'll like this one as well.
The only thing I didn't care for was the countdown throughout the book, letting us know how many hours were left.
Could have done without that, but it's a small thing and don't think it would bother anyone else but me.Child is a very good writer, and Reacher is a very good character.
You know that if you pick up one of his books, you're going to get a good story.
Great pacing, good plot, and believable characters.
My only complaints about 61 Hours is that I really didn't like the constant counting down at the end of each chapter, it didn't add any suspense for me, it just irritated me like the sound of a faucet constantly dripping.
And then I almost had a heart attack at the end because I really thought that Reacher died.
That this was the end.
I thought that he was finally having a breakthrough understanding his need for a nomadic life, and then WHAM!
Jack Reacher has become such a friend...
Lee Child at his best. Jack Reacher is stranded in a small South Dakota town due to a snowstorm and as usual manages to find his help is needed. A little old lady witness to a drug deal is being protected from being killed by a Mexican drug lord is the basis of the novel. Jack assists the local Police Department protecting her and investigating the usual murders that seek out Reacher. This is one of my favorite Jack Reacher novels. The pacing was good, high suspense, some surprises. Loved it.
Love the Reacher man, although this one may have given me chilblains. Do not start this book unless you have a warm blanket to hand. Brrr!
He takes the most severely injured back to town and sends a Department of Corrections bus for the others.In Bolton, there is no room at any inn, so the citizens agree to take the elderly passengers and the bus driver in, while the deputy chief takes Reacher to his house for the night.It turns out that Bolton is home to a prison and also to an old and mysterious government installation where a group of bikers have set up camp and apparently have a meth lab going.
Busses always seem to be dropping Jack Reacher off in the oddest of places where, inevitably, trouble is brewing.In this case, Jack has hitched a ride on a tour bus filled with elderly folks who, for whatever insane reason, have decided to visit scenic South Dakota in the middle of winter.
The bus hits an icy patch and skids off the road leaving Jack and the other passengers stranded out in the middle of nowhere in Bolton, South Dakota, a tiny town with huge problems.A pint-sized Mexican drug lord has created a meth lab on an abandoned federal installation just outside of town.
Another great Jack Reacher book. In this one, Reacher has hitched a ride on a tour bus which crashes in a severe snow storm. They end up in Bolton, South Dakota. This is a prison town and the motels ae always full, so the people from the tour bus end up being put with members of the community. There is known to be an assassin coming into the town to kill a person who witnessed a drug sale and is willing to testify. Reacher ends up staying with her to help provide protection.
61 Hours (Jack Reacher, #14), Lee Child
In a departure for author Child, much of the 61 hours is spent in conversation between Reacher and the witness, an insightful retiree, rather than in back to back action sequences.
After couple of days, Reacher comes to the realization that the drug trial and the prison riots are interconnected, and the action intensifies to an explosive confrontation.
Regrettably, 61 hours is about 10 hours too many to postpone real action, and there's a period of slogging along before it becomes clear that the prison riots and the drug trial are inextricably wound together.
**3.5 stars**Interesting cliffhanger...I guess I'll have to read the next book to find out how Reacher got out of Dodge!
He definitely should have known who was the bad guy...it made sense for others not to realize it but as an outsider, Reacher should have distrusted everybody from the start.
He's not known for introspection or mulling his feelings (a typical guy, I guess) so even in situations that you think would crush him, you never get much out of him.
Another lovely Reacher novel.
I'm so hooked on Jack Reacher.
If you like cozy English mysteries you might not like Lee Child's books.
Some was told from the bad guys' POV but most from Reacher's.
Bits and pieces of Reacher's background were revealed, nothing astounding because all us Reacher fans just nod our heads and murmur "of course." The story was believable but not too ordinary either.
This is Reacher after all and he does fall into odd situations.
That's why we love him.
Heads were cracked, bad guys came to bad ends.
The next book cannot come too soon.
