https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6733384-decline-of-the-english-murder
A collection of 8 essays, written between 1932-1946.George Orwell lashes out at topics as different as Boys Weeklies, Girls Weeklies, “funny postcards”, Ladies Magazines, “junk antiquities” and what he describes as “good bad books”. Being socialist to the core, and nevertheless bitten by the British bug, he shares his thoughts on the quality of the entertainment offered to the less educated masses. This also includes the "Decline of the English Murder", a form of entertainment that really went d
A collection of 8 essays, written between 1932-1946.George Orwell lashes out at topics as different as Boy´s Weeklies, Girl´s Weeklies, “funny postcards”, Ladies´ Magazines, “junk antiquities” and what he describes as “good bad books”.
Orwell is not attempting any social revolt, he merely argues that while “society” allows all the crappy magazines to be published, you should put more reality into the stories.The first and the last essays in the collection are far more interesting.As a field study, Orwell does his utmost to get arrested for public drunkenness in order to see a jail from the inside.
Decline of the English Murder is, like Books v.
Cigarettes, a collection of articles Orwell wrote to several magazines.
Cigarettes relied more on Orwell's opinions, these rely more on Orwell's first hand experiences, that is, situations he purposely placed himself in.
I know that there's an ongoing debate about the veracity of Orwell's "first-hand" accounts.
An online article written by an expert on Orwell states that the account in prison is quite accurate.
I d'guess the same can be said for his article on Hop picking.
The lesson here is that Orwell is a wonderful writer and his articles are as worth reading as his fiction.
I was attracted to this collection of essays mainly by the prospect of Orwell turning his hand to analysis of the detective novel, but I have to say that brief essay (and the one on Rudyard Kipling) was weak in this otherwise excellent collection.
He didn't have much original to say about the English murder, and I was not interested in his thoughts (or anyone's particularly) on Kipling.

While the other one focused more on reading habits and childhood, this one deals mostly with popular English cultures, with the addition of a couple of amusing essays documenting Orwell's insider investigations.The essay on popular fascination with crime stories in newspapers (which gives the book its title) was a great read, and so were the investigations (seriously - the author tried really hard to get arrested so he could see what it was like to be in prison, and it's funny how he complains that he couldn't stay in prison for longer than two days!).
But the essays on weeklies, as well as the one on illustrated postcards, while interesting, seemed far too long and drawn-out, in my opinion.All in all, a nice read if you like Orwell, though I would recommend you start by reading Books v.
It was okay. I'm assuming these 8 short works were written as newspaper articles or suchlike, as some of the pieces were very brief. I really enjoyed half of them, which were about prison, murder, sleeping rough and good bad books. I wasn't so keen on the articles about boys' weeklies, women's papers and novelty postcards. Overall a short and somewhat enjoyable read- you can't go too far wrong with Orwell.
Uneven. British.
Some is a bit bland (his views on junk shops), some interesting (his views on seaside postcards and that they are an outlet for the Don Quixote/Sancho Panza combination residing in us all - interesting as well that he should choose to intellectually deconstruct such a 'light' thing), a couple simply descriptions of events he has put himself through, such as a night in prison with the proles, or hop-picking for a season with the proles, and also a couple of articles which simply, in my opinion, show a sort of thick-headedness, and an obsession with class which clouds any real perspicacious observation of his subject.
I found the subject matter of the individual essays interesting but the writing is laboured and repetitive.
It reads like a stream of consciousness, not well edited thoughtful pieces.
The one exception to this was the last piece; Hop-Picking Diary, which I bolted through without noticing the length at all.
This essay alone got the edition bumped up from a 2 star.
I’m hoping Down and Out in London and Paris is along the vein of that as I’ve been looking forward to reading it but now I’m slightly downcast by the prospect.
Honestly if you want good essays read Joan Didion instead.
A classic book of Orwellian essays, most of which I found interesting - Notes On Nationalism feels particularly topical at the moment, and Why I Write is fascinating. However, an extended essay (an I-felt-unnecessary one-third of the book) on Charles Dickens, who I'm not a fan of, and another on the art of Donald McGill, brought my interest right down.
George Orwell in this small edition comments on the joy of being arrested for public drunkness in East London, the joys of dirty (not really) postcards of Donald McGill, the nature of junk stores, and true-crime reading.In other words a collection of essays that comment on the taste and passions of the typical (if one exists) British citizen during and before the war years.
Mostly from bigger editions of such a writer, but here you get the feeling that these books are made for a 1 hour long train trip, and they work beautifully in the bathtub.And yeah Orwell works great in the bathtub.
Can't go wrong with Orwell. Contains one of my all-time favorite Orwell quotes:"Any life, when viewed from the inside, is a series of defeats."
You've got to appreaciate a man who goes to prison so he can write about the experience. And then goes on to essay the pro's and con's of boys comic books. Great read.
A collection of Orwell's more obscure essays. Of particular note is the long essay on Dickens and the assessemnt of the peculair genius of Salvador Dali.

In this piece, Orwell again shows his lack of patience for shallow and slipshod thinking and writing."Raffles and Miss Blandish" uses the same theme as "Decline of the English Murder", and compares crime fiction from the 1900's with that being written 40 years later to demonstrate the growth of power worship in society.
What we call 'realism' is really the doctrine that might is right, and our tendency is to worship power and successful cruelty." "Charles Dickens" is a long, but fascinating essay (despite the fact that I've not read any Dickens!) in which Orwell contends that Dickens criticism of society is almost exclusively moral; his target is not so much societies institutions as human nature.
Texts from Orwell's radical period. They are very intelligent, witty and sometimes even funny. I may not share the implicit political views, but I am impressed by the genuine interest , energy and hardship Orwell invested into learning about being at the low end of the society. Also the analytical textz about trash literature are inspiring. it is fun to think about say Harry Potter using the tools developed in Orwell's "Boys' weeklies" essay. I absolutely recommend this thin book.
There are some points I definitely did not pay attention to when I read this for the first time two years ago. Anyway, I still feel the same about The Charles Dickens' essay which was pretty long. Many ideas repeated in it. The whole collection in general is not bad. The essay titled 'A Hanging' is my favorite. It felt like a short story.
The first 3 essays are the best ones, and it was very nice to discover this other side of Orwell and get a peek into his thoughts about everyday themes. I connected more with him through the essays than through his fiction work, also.
Entertaining essays.
Interesting - though a little random - collection of essays.Not a bad way to kill a couple of hours - not a particularly challenging way either though.
Orwell's writing here is amusing and masterful, as always, but there were a couple of stories which have probably lost their lustre over the years.
I think this book should fall under the category of false advertising.Judging from the title, the front page and the blurb, it appears as if this is a collection of essays about murder, which definitely intrigued me.
The first essay, titled "Clink", was about Orwell's attempts to report on the state of British prisons, so then I was under the impression the essays were about true crime in general, which is still a topic which interests me.
For a short work, it was a real struggle to finish since I wasn't motivated.The only positive is that I only paid £4.99 for the book.
I loved every single essay and appreciated the insight it gave me into Orwell's researches for Down and Out in Paris and London, a novel which I have yet to read (I can't wait!).My favorite quotes: George being frustrated about the mindlessness of these Boys' Weeklies: "No suggestion anywhere that there can anything be wrong with the system AS A SYSTEM."George about why pornographic/ vulgar jokes are possible in radio and not in newspapers: "In England the gap of what can be said and what can be printed is rather exceptionally wide.""Leaders who offer blood, toil, tears and sweat always get more out of their followers than those who offer safety and a good time."George about his hop-picking friend Ginger: "Except when in prison, he has broken the law every day for the last five years." - I thought that was just too funny not to mention.
This book is composed of some truly interesting essays but at the same time there's a bunch of totally skippable ones.
And, sadly, the skippable ones are way longer and make for majority of the book.Essays desserving 5 stars:A HangingBenefit of Clergy (Some Notes on Salvador Dali)How the Poor DieNotes on NationalismWhy I WriteEssays you can totally skip or die of boredom:Decline of the English MurderRudyard KiplingRaffles and Miss BlandishCharles DickensThe Art of Donald McGillAs such I can't give more than three stars.
It's still worth a read, though.
Especially Notes on Nationalism.
That subject is once again in public's eye.
I found several fascinating for the tidbits I pulled out, giving me a portrait of the time, especially, "Good Bad Books," "Boys' Weeklies," "Women's Twopenny Papers," and "The Art of Donald McGill," comic postcards with "low" jokes.
Writing in 1945, he's half right here: "I would back Uncle Tom's Cabin to outlive the complete works of Virginia Woolf or George Moore." The essays about the boys' weeklies and the women's twopenny papers are interesting examinations about keeping the working class in its place, distinct from the middle class.
Woman's Twopenny Papers: Short commentary designed as a response to a reader's letter sent in regards to Boys' Weeklies.Hot-Picking Diary: this summary will be added later as it is quite a long article and I have a final to study for tomorrow.I'm interested to see what else Penguin has in this series

Unfortunately, Amazon's kindle edition (or the Penguin Great Ideas edition) of this collection is ra

