https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17856572-watchmen-1
Someone recommended reading THE WATCHMEN to me because I was told it was one of the best out there. After reading the first issue, I now know why.The illustrations were a bit outdated, but I didn't really mind. I'm more curious as to what happened to the Comedian and why this person thinks someone was out there, killing these retired masked heroes. From the first page, you immediately know that this series would have a dark theme. I've only read the first issue, but I could already tell, I would not recommend this to younger readers.
This is one of the best comic book series I've read. The story is well written and intriguing just what you expect from Alan Moore works. I also loved the graphic. Amazing.
Great starting ..
Muy buen comienzo. Me súper interesa continuar con este cómic, y de hecho ya comencé con el volumen 2.
Great start, the story is compelling from the very first page and the archaic art-style is beautifully congruent to the story line.I enjoyed my first meeting and impression of the main characters. The different watchmen and masked heroes are solid figures with distinguished features from the very first issues.I am especially impressed by the formatting and scenography, which are often overlooked in this media, that add depth to the narration. Especially how the opening and closing page are cyclical and artistically linked.
I think it's obvious that the starting point is: the comedian is dead.
"Why does one death matter against so many? Because there is good and there is evil, and evil must be punished. Even in the face of armageddon I shall not compromise in this. But there are so many deserving of retribution . . . and there is so little time." (Page 24)
مش فاهم دماغه😓
You can't judge a comic by the same standards as a novel but what if it cheats and half of it is a novel?
fucking great
Ever since I have seen the movie, I have been obsessed with the series. I know it's a wrong order for me but this masterwork was not known to me because graphic novels were not big buzz words for me till then. Now its different. So this kicks off the 12 part series Watchmen. May be I would be able to watch Ultimate Edition of movie. This starts with the murder of Comedian and start of Night owl. Let's see what do we have in the future.
Until now, I hadn't understood how much detail these pictures would add to the story. If this book DIDN'T have graphics, it would have had to be REALLY long to describe so much detail. And I love the autobiography excerpts at the end. I didn't expect that format in this book.Full review HERE.
Ketika Anda di sini, Anda dapat menikmati tidak hanya Batu tetapi juga akan membeli ribuan film yang menarik bagi keluarga.Sekarang hari kami meningkatkan permintaan film yang menyenangkan dengan bantuan kemajuan dalam teknologi internet.
Perawatan laser fraksional datang di terkait dengan Download Movie Online online dan ini membawa perubahan revolusioner dalam gaya hidup kita.Dalam "Abduction", jenis "Watch Movie Online" tentang film, Lautner adalah Nathan, seorang anak muda dari Pennsylvania dalam rumah bahagia yang secara konsisten mengalami mimpi buruk atau mimpi buruk.
Hasil di Anda merobek berarti bahwa mirip dengan memori komputer yang lebih cepat atau prosesor dual core dapat membiarkan PC tablet Anda untuk menjalankan beberapa aplikasi pada suatu kesempatan.
the beginning of another great work by the great alan moore
The one that started it all ... the comedian is dead ... Rorschach is alive ... "They will look up and shout, 'save me'. And I'll whisper, '..No..'" ... Who watches the Watchmen?
We learn some things from the comic-format of Chapter I; meet some of our Principle Characters: A mysterious, ink-blotted masked person, respectively coined Rorschach, witnessing and visiting the murder scene of a man he knew, Edward Blake (The Comedian), with some secrets.
Another important plot line is the story of the Keene Act. We know Rorschach has connections to Edward Blake, that being they are in a squad of a currently defunct superhero group.
Therefore, Hollis and Danny are also part of the defunct squad.
Oh, and Hollis develops a taste for comic books...
"Why does one death matter against so many? Because there is good and there is evil, and evil must be punished. Even in the face of Armageddon I shall not compromise in this. But there are so many deserving of retribution . . . and there is so little time" ~Rorschach This is my attempt to read the classic comics that made the genre what it is today and i picked up the best one to start with, Alan Moore is an amazing creator and i can't wait to pick the next one.
Desde chica he querido leer cómics pero realmente siempre me dio mucha paja, pero como en la biblioteca he estado muy metida organizándolos, me picó el bichito y decidí partir por el que siempre me tincó mucho: Watchmen. Siento que como recién voy en el #1 no puedo comentar mucho pero ufa los colores.
More beautiful and complex than I could have imagined. The parallels were so incredibly well done that the flow never was brought down by them. The adult themes and setting shook me and carved a spot in my heart.
Classic that I finally got around to reading. I'll probably read it 10 more times before I die.
has good story
vhfhhhgj ghhhghghghghghgh gghgjhjb hjhjhj hhjhj jlljljl kjkjk
The watchmen is extremely well edited, character driven, wonderfull and plod driven. I need more of this and love it.
I believe it was a good first part to series watch men
Great story, in-depth and intriguing. Good solid story with beautifully drawn art.
intersting
Finally getting around to reading this series. I wanted to see how much the movie matched the comics, and this was almost spot on. Even though not much happened, there are 11 other books for the plot to progress, right? Onto book 2.
What else is there to say that has not been said about Watchmen. From the art to the layouts to the writing it all just works so well. Moore can make you cheer for a lunatic like Rorschach, entertain you with the Comedian and intrigue you with the mystery and the fears of the time.
Prometedor.
The book is very good.
