https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36204070-the-book-of-m
Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil: for Thou art with me… --- Psalm 23But what if you were walking through the valley of the death of shadows? Who or what might be with you then? If, as Macbeth proclaims, life’s but a walking shadow, what becomes of the poor player when even the shadow has walked? Peng Shepherd - from her site - Photo by Rachel CrittendenThere have been two major periods in my life when I kept a journal. The first was when I was fi
It sounds completely fantastical but it's a real thing… I think humans have been fascinated with shadows for a really long time, but I didn't have a story until I started researching and then when I came across Zero Shadow Day it was just — I mean that was it.
- from KJZZ interviewphoto by Pol Pol Ubeda Hervasof BarcelonaOrlando (Ory) and Max were at a wedding in Virginia, a woodsy area, pretty exurban, when the event first becomes a thing.
It may be the dystopian love story that keeps things moving along, but the strength of this book is the ideas.
I admired the textual experimentation of this measured book, as various symbols, fonts, and perspectives try to get across the lives of the characters, who mix emotional heft with sudden, rapid action.
The leads, Ory and Max, are wonderfully drawn and make for an excellent emotional core.In this world, if someone's shadow disappears, they will soon be consigned to forgetting all that they knew, turning into mysterious, frightening figures.
The book opens with Max losing her shadow after two years of hiding with her partner Ory, and Ory desperately trying to enact a system of rules to protect her.
This moment makes a persons shadow disappear for a few minutes.
In “The Book of M”....people have a shadow —but as the world is collapsing, people start losing theirs.
They lose their memories, too...(not all at once)...but like with dementia and Alzheimer’s....a little at a time.
There are chapters about characters who have already forgotten everything before “The Forgetting began”...It made me wondered about love -how they experienced it with their memories completely gone.
Bumping this book up to a five star read because I can't stop thinking about the fantastic story in the months since I've read it.
Definitely among my fav reads of 2018.-------Happy UK Publication Day to this brilliant dystopian!Wow. This book was a revelation.
The book follows their separate paths and their stories interlink with other characters to create a tale of love, hope and survival of all that is human but also interweaves this humanity with an unknowing darkness and magic.
I loved the characters in this book.
Anyway, one of the things I loved about this book is that it could almost happen.
New York City lies in ruins, Chattanooga is burning, Washington DC is a war zone.  Power grids are down.  People are losing their shadows, and with them, their memories.  New Orleans beckons.  A one-eyed amnesiac, the power of a peanut butter and jelly sandwich, lakes that come and go as they please.  There is magic out there, as evidenced by singing trees, conversant tattoos and wolves.  As your shadow tethers you to earth, the value of memories has never been higher.
Just like Peter Pan, the people in Peng Shepherd’s novel, The Book of M, are having trouble with their shadows.
Told by four linked characters, with a multitude of diverse experiences threaded through their stories, this book follows their course through a world fundamentally changed by destructive magic.
When things start to go wrong, when people without their shadows begin to forget, the tentative panic and fear is equally genuine.
If you can forget a place or person and it disappear, why would not remembering you need to breathe kill you, since not breathing would be the new reality?
Peng Shepherd uses this to create achingly beautiful scenes that edge on unsettling.The book is told from four perspectives:- Orlando Zhang (Ory), whose wife has just lost her shadow and left him behind, is single-minded in his pursuit of his wife,- Max, his wife, is losing her memories and keeps recording herself speaking to her husband to make sure she does not remember him wrong,- Mahnaz Ahmadi, an Iranian archer, is stuck in Boston, far away from her family and most importantly her younger sister.- The Amnesiac has lost his memory in an accident and as such has a unique understanding of memory loss and its effects on sense of self.My favourite parts by far were those concerned with Max – her journey into forgetting is mesmerizing and her resilience is wonderful.
Loved the first half, major Bird Box vibes mixed with a good dose of Station Eleven.Around the 50% mark, I realized I wasn't even connected to the characters and I was forcing myself to keep reading/listening.
This book strays into mystical realism/supernatural stuff and that's not a good fit for me.
I have a hard time with sci-fi/fantasy (I DON'T KNOW WHAT TO CALL THIS GENRE, HELP ME!) unless it is a really spectacular story like Dark Matter.I see why so many people have raved about this book, but I can't say I loved it.
This phenomenon gives the individual the use of a strange type of magic, but it comes at a high price - each time they use it they will be robbed of a memory.
The way Shepherd has structured the novel around these varying perspectives gives you a look at what each character is thinking/feeling at the time.
For a debut author the worldbuilding is exquisite and I appreciated that the characters were drawn from diverse backgrounds and were developed well.
All in all, this is a superb dystopian thrill ride following the characters as they fight for survival, a haunting and thought-provoking read!Many thanks to HarperCollins for an ARC.
We follow the journey of Max who after two years has finally lost her shadow and run away, Ory her husband who travels the countryside looking for her, Naz who was an Olympic archer in the time before, and the Amnesiac who lost all of his memories due to an accident before The Forgetting.I seriously had major chills all up and down my spine as I read the last few pages of The Book of M.
I am sure I won’t be able to get this book out of my head for a long while and have already caught myself looking for my shadow several times!Peng Shepherd is a new author that I will be watching out for.
Combining mysticism, folklore, and originality Ms Shepard has created a harrowing look at what could be if we lost our awareness.In this book, we met Ory and his wife Max. They and others have escaped shadow loss by hiding out for years in a remote area in the woods but one by one people start to drift away until one day, Max disappears for she as well lost her shadow.
This is the land of nightmares, of memory loss, of a time where there are no rules other than survival, and yet amidst all this, there is hope and love as Ory will not forsake Max even though he knows she will probably not remember him if he finds her.I have to say this book had me from the get go.
The first half of this book was a solid 5 stars for me.
The plot was so gripping I couldn't put the book down.
But then....it took a turn.
The latter half of the story just didn't do it for me.
It was all over the place and confusing.
The culmination of everything really fell flat for me which is so disheartening because the first half of the book is so well written!
This had all the potential to be a great story but the follow through was confusing and unsatisfying.
We mostly follow Orlando "Ory" Zhang (side note: THE NARRATOR OF THE AUDIOBOOK LEGIT NEEDS TO BE FIRED SIMPLY FOR HOW HORRIBLY HE PRONOUNCED "ZHANG" I LITERALLY THOUGHT HE WAS SAYING "JOHN" THE ENTIRE TIME WHAT THE FUCK) and Max who are a married couple - and Max loses her shadow while Ory keeps his.Just, wow, this book seriously blew me away.
Everything from the characters (the whole Paul thing like wow maybe just stab me in the heart next time???) to the plot to the world to the mystery to the science to the ENDING WOW THE ENDING JUST WOWI have to highly HIGHLY suggest this book because its seriously incredible - anyone who likes scifi, post apocalyptic, etc.
Review to come...
“The Book of M” is a dystopian apocalyptic novel that is, at its essence, a love story about Ory (a man) and Max (a woman).Peng Shepherd has based her debut novel on a real life event called “Zero Shadow Day,” which occurs annually in India.
Originally, a wedding party stayed on at the resort in hiding after the shadow disappearance epidemic hit the U.S. Over the past two years, the other wedding guest have left the resort leaving Ory and Max to their own devices.
Ory is terrified to leave Max alone while he looks for food in the city.
He encounters a group of twelve people, both shadowed and shadowless, who are leaving for New Orleans.
No one escaped – either because they were someone who lost their shadow, or because they were someone who loved someone who lost their shadow.In The Book of M's future world, through some inexplicable and magical process, people start to lose their shadows, and with them, their memories.
This all sets up a familiar zombieland us-vs-them scenario with the unaffected constantly reassuring themselves that they still have shadows as they choose to avoid or fight the shadowless, but with no set rules for how a person transforms (it's not a contagion, spontaneously occurs, and doesn't affect everyone in a group) and with unbounded magic that some of the shadowless eventually learn to harness in deus ex machina plot-meddling, the “magic” supplants “logic” to the detriment of the narrative; when anything could happen, I stopped caring what did.
And with this memory loss comes magic.If someone forgets that cars require gas to run, their car suddenly no longer requires gas to run.
If someone forgets that guns shoot bullets, not thunderstorms...The magic of this book is quite the literary device.
What happens when we are forced to interact with physical manifestations of a person's differing memory?
What happens when we are forced to interact with the physical manifestations of a person's brain, if that brain perceives the world differently from we do?Unfortunately (in the case of this book), I am a HUGE fantasy reader.
Best debut I've read in a long, loooong time!-153 pages in - “Did you know that the word that means a group of elephants together is memory?” he asked. “A memory of elephants.”I am so loving this book! 85 pages in and - for someone who researches identity and memory - this is pretty darn fascinating. I’m a bit creeped out, if I’m being honest. I hope that the explanation for losing one’s shadow and consequently all knowledge and memories will be fabulous. It has to be!
This is a noteworthy debut.An epidemic called the Forgetting first starts in India when Hemu Joshi lost his shadow.
What happens is that people lose their shadows and their memories follow.
Why when a shadowless forgot that deer didn’t have wings on their heads, did it become true?"The Book of M follows a number of characters, starting with Ory and his wife Max. They escaped the Forgetting by hiding in a hotel in the woods outside Arlington, Virginia, and putting into place a set of protective rules.
The narrative follows Max, Ory and several other characters.
Content Warning: Graphic ViolenceThe Book of M was weird, memorable and engaging. The story will break your heart and shock you in ways your not expecting. In this world people begin to lose their shadows and then gradually lose all of their memories after. Ory and Max set out to find answers and ways to survive a constantly changing landscape. The authors does a great job of balancing multiple point of views while keeping the voices distinct and the plot moving. Ory and Max are characters yo
In this world people begin to lose their shadows and then gradually lose all of their memories after.
Ory and Max set out to find answers and ways to survive a constantly changing landscape.
I wanted to learn more about the characters we knew but some of that took a backseat to describing the threats and ways that people have adapted in this new world.
The world building itself was great but their could have been less of it.
The audio book narrators were male and female, they did a great job conveying the feelings and emotion of characters through the dialogue.
I don't recall another book that I had to re-read so many clumsy sentences to get the point.2) The characters names.
On top of that one character goes by three different names, one as a chapter heading, one that is used by the other characters, and one used by the narrator.
Another character decided to go by a different name 3/4 into the book for no good reason except as a weak twist used by the author.3) Inconsistent story line regarding the loss of shadows and the effect it has on the victims in the book and the world as a whole in the book.
A very imaginative fantasy set in the near-future world where human shadows begin to disappear.
At first, it's rather a lark but then memories begin to disappear as well.
There's a vague hint of something more happening here....MAGIC??Have you ever considered your shadow?
Peng Shepherd's story will encourage you to think more deeply about what a shadow represents.
The answers to that in this story are very interesting.Another question to consider: Is it our memories that make us who we are?
Basically, this is another version of the odyssey story that is often found in apocalyptic novels.
People lose their shadows and in due time their memories one by one until they die (might forget how to open door/eat food/breathe).Inspiration: inspired by Zero Shadow Day, an astronomical phenomenon restricted to a few geographical locations in India.
This book is a delight)- Four POVs. All are different from one another.
The author writes for the reader who can bind all the POVs together.
I definitely did not see that one coming.-might be a little slow-I read this as a mix of physical book+audio.
I think the audio might help with the slowness in the plot's progress Disclaimer : Much thanks to Harper Collins India for a copy of the novel.
This novel of apocalypse and memory had interesting characters, but I felt it was too long and really suffered from a lack of explanation of how the abilities work. I need more reality in my apocalypse. But I went ahead and finished it since it is on the Tournament of Books longlist.
When I get done editing my current manuscript I'm going to have SO many reviews to catch up on, and this is one of those books I will definitely write a review for.I will say, the ending is not what I had hoped for.
The writing was simply gorgeous, and though the book is a bit on the longer side, I read every word, skipping over nothing.
The world-building didn't work for me at first, but the more you read, the more it sucks you in.
I definitely recommend this book.
An interesting apocalyptic story that uses Indian mythology and lots of magical realism. As people lose their shadows, they also begin to lose their memories. At 17 hours, though, this audiobook was a bit long, and the story probably could have been pared down without losing the central theme. 3.5 ⭐️
Not even close.The story revolves around four main characters—Orlando, the man desperate to find his wife; Max, the woman who will do anything to remember the life she previously led; Mahnaz, a loving sister and woman warrior; and The One Who Gathers, a mysterious stranger and collector of lost souls, who everyone has heard of but no one has ever seen.The narrative is told from three different viewpoints, with the majority of chapters ending with Max’s current whereabouts, her plight captured on a voice recorder she received from Orlando when she became a shadowless.
It's been a long time since a book hit me this hard. I don't yet have any words.James Fouhey and Emily Woo Zeller were amazing on the audio.
So happy I picked this up on a whim. A truly unique take on the plague story.
I'm not sure how or when I added this to my "to read" queue.
But I saw the audiobook on Hoopla one day, recognized it as in my "to read" queue, and downloaded all 17 hours.
It was entertaining!
From start to finish.
Good post-apocalpytic world-building, interesting characters, powerful and eery imagery, some admirable twists, especially toward the end.
A few have compared it to Station Eleven, though.
Which was a stretch.
The writing, by first-time novelist Peng Shepherd, was tight and fast-paced, but the actual tale, about the human race losing their shadows and subsequently their memories, felt a tad clunky.
Still, for 17+ hours, a commendable level of engagement.
