https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4537.The_Second_Mrs_Gioconda
You know, it's tough when you're teaching a sixth grade IMG class and you read something that makes you start to tear up and you have to pretend you're not crying. :) I loved this book. I love Konigsburg in general, but this i think is one the best and littliest known works by this great author. This tale is a wonderful story with woven strands of history about Da Vinci braided into a fictional but fascinating possible account of who the Mona Lisa really is. Highly recommend it!
One thing Konisgburg always does well is 'subtle depths.' Some of the other reviewers wanted more characterization...
Others wanted more history...
not remembering that not enough is known to build a novel on, and such is admitted in the preface.Anyway, thoughtful and poignant, with some truly beautiful bits, as is usual from this author.I love when Beatrice teaches Salai about art, in the process of telling him why he is important to Leonardo: "A person looking at a work of art should not be slapped to attention; he should be wooed." And: "[Leonardo] needs a wild element.
I wanted to like this children's book more than I did because Konigsburg's From the Mixed-Up Files of Mrs Basil E.
In From the Mixed-Up Files of Mrs Basil E.
Frankweiler , I felt like I was in the museum with the two children.
Even if I'd read this book as a child, I don't think I would've felt like I was in Italy with the main character.However, as a kid, I would've been happy to see that the reproductions of the paintings mentioned in the book are included in the back.
Why did Leonardo da Vinci paint the portrait of the plain second wife of a a merchant, the Mona Lisa? The Second Mrs. Giocondafollows the story of Salai, Leonardo’s young servant, through his friendship with another plain woman, the Duchess Beatrice, in order to attempt to answer this question. The book is a quick read and quite interesting. I recommend this book to middle grade age kids who are interested in or studying da Vinci.
"This was a woman who knew that she was not pretty and who had learned to live with that knowledge. This was a woman whose acceptance of herself had made her beautiful in a deep and hidden way. A woman whose look told you that you were being sized up by a measuring rod in her head; a measuring rod on which she alone had etched the units. A woman who knew how to give pleasure and how to give pain. A woman who knew how to endure. A woman of layers."
A wonderful little book!
The book was excellent.
Good movies have died at the box office for just this reason, and I think this book falls into that category because of misleading dust jacket.This is the story of Leonardo's personal assistant Salai, and the dynamics of his relationship with his employer from the first day when Salai tried to steal Leonardo's purse, to the day Mona Lisa walks into their studio.
and incidentally it's about the Mona LisaThe book's cover, and its title, promise to answer the question of who was Mona Lisa, and why did Leonardo painted her....
This makes complete sense to me because it offers explanation (without being exposition) as to how Leonardo captures the smile and the "inner" soul of the model.The drawback to this, of course, is that there really needs to be an understanding, on the part of the reader, who/what the Mona Lisa is, and why the painting is famous.
Without this knowledge, and without, perhaps, some classroom study, the average reader most likely isn't going to understand what the books leads up to and why it ends just as we meet the title character.Not my favorite Konigsburg book, but I'd still take a less-than-her-best Konigsburg over most other writers any time.Recommended.
There is no Mona Lisa painted anywhere in this book.
Just so you know.There is also a distinct lack of plot, and our main character is an unlikeable little brat that makes me want to shake him sometimes until his teeth rattle.
And the only character worth mentioning is the wife of the Duke, someone who doesn't seem important at all (though she turns out to be somewhat important in a rather muddied sort of way).ARGH.Usually we love the books that Sonlight chooses for us to read.
We were distinctly disappointed.Thankfully this story doesn't take long to read.

I typically really like Konigsburg's works, but this one threw me off.
It is about a 14-year-old boy who becomes an apprentice for Leonardo da Vinci.
Promising plot, right?
Think again.
I don't know exactly where it went wrong, but here are some thoughts: I just couldn't identify with the main character.
He was impersonal and annoying.
Also, the storyline was kind of strange.
I thought that all of the scattered parts would be building up to some culmination at the end, but it was really kind of anti-climatic for me.
Though this one was an award winner from the people who really count, it definitely lost my vote.
I'm not finished this reading, but I've read it before. I know I enjoyed it, but I must say, I've already been distracted by some of the ill-chosen contemporary words that are jarring and out of place in historical fiction. I don't want to hear anyone using the word "guys" in Renaissance Italy...
It was ok it was not the best book I ever read but it was ok
How did the Mona Lisa, a merchant's wife, a woman of little consequence, come to be painted? There is an idea here of how and I quite like it.
The title of the book is a little misleading though, as "the second Mrs. Giaconda" doesn't make an appearance until the last three pages of the book.
:( Anyways, all in all, I'd recommend this book to anyone who is interested in this time period or if you're studying it in school and need to read a book about Leonardo da Vinci and his works.
I, personally, was studying this time period in school, and the program I use recommended this book as like a more in depth study/story of Leonardo, and I ended up really liking it.
This is a fabulous book...but not if you are expecting an entire story about Da Vinci's most famous painting.
Rather, this is a subtle, but well-told, fictionalized story that makes Leonardo Da Vinci (and his supporting cast) come alive.
The story is told from the eyes of Da Vinci's servant and apprentice, Salai (mentioned in Da Vinci's journals).
You may want to find the old version: mine has a sketch of a woman, so I was not expecting an entire book about the Mona Lisa (who is only briefly mentioned in the last chapter).
A diamond in the ruff!
I happened to pick this up at the library.
What a gem of a book.
This is about Salai, apprenticed to Leonardo Da Vinci.
Konigsburg brings this history story alive and fleshes it out.
The dialogue sparkles and it feels like this is an autobiography.
Anyone in art history would do well to read this amazing book about the famous painting of Mona Lisa.
A lot of details are in this little quick read.
did her homework.
This is worth picking up and reading if you have any interest in art or history or both.
E.L. Konigsburg has written this short novella about Leonardo daVinci during his stay in Milan under the patronage of Duke Il Moro and with his servant/apprentice Salai.
There is more about Salai than daVinci to be sure, showing the child as a liar, thief and con man (boy) but ultimately, devoted to his mentor.
The cover is not of Mrs. Giaconda as I thought, but is a drawing of a young child thought to be Salai.
Throughout the book you will wonder where is the title character, and you will not meet her until the final two or three pages.
This is a book that's been on my shelf since middle school, but I've never got around to reading. When you're trying to rush and meet your Goodreads quota, however, middle grade books are ripe for the reading. Here we learn the fictionalized backstory behind the Mona Lisa, and while not a super exciting book, I enjoyed the characters nonetheless. I don't know if I would have liked it in middle school, but as a quick read for an adult, I enjoyed it just fine.
“This was a woman who knew that she was not pretty and who had learned to live with that knowledge. This was a woman whose acceptance of herself had made her beautiful in a deep and hidden way. A woman whose look told you that you were being sized by a measuring rod in her head; a measuring rod on which she alone had etched the units. A woman who knew how to give pleasure and how to give pain. A woman who knew how to endure. A woman of layers.”
Maybe 3.5? I thought for sure that the author of one of my all-time favorite books, coupled with the subject being one of my all-time favorite artists (inventors, innovative humans, etc) would have been the recipe for a 5-star rating, but it just left me unsatisfied. While I appreciated her relentless research and unique take on what could have happened, it needed more development for me to love it.
If you've ever wondered about da Vinci or the Mona Lisa, you will find this book interesting. Even if you haven't wondered it's a wonderful book.It's slight in size and very well-written. It mostly revolves around da Vinci's apprentice, Salai, who is a character in himself. I would like to read more by this author.
I always enjoy Konigsburg‘s writing and this one doesn’t disappoint. This novel is perfect for a middle grade reader who wants to add a fun bit of historical fiction about Da Vinci or the renaissance time period. It would make a great starting point to then find out what parts are true concerning Da Vinci’s life.
The Second Mrs Gioconda certainly gave me a knew perspective of the life of Leonardo da Vince and the events surrounding the painting of the Mona Lisa. How much of it is real I have yet to research, however, this book definitely helped bring da Vince to life in my eyes.
This book wasn't boring, but it wasn't fun. I think that maybe they could have talked about Madonna Lisa a little bit more. Otherwise, it was a good book.
Fun, easy to understand historical fiction. Another great work by E L Konigsburg!
This was a nice light read. Nothing more, nothing less.
Interesting historically but not the most engaging read. Definitely not one Brooke would find interesting at this point, probably not until she is an adult.
Konigsburg has written books that I adore, but this isn't one of them. It was interesting but not riveting.
