https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/78972.The_Fourth_Estate
Historia bien planteada, con un principio del libro un poco incierto, pero que tiene su propósito.El poder de la prensa, como lo podemos ver en esta historia, es enorme y peligroso.
Lo que rescato es que ni Amstrong ni Townsend tenían como propósito principal controlar todas las noticias de sus periódicos para hacerlo como una dictadura, ellos sólo querían poder, poder y más poder.
En mi opinión personal, uno de los protagonistas (no diré quién) pasó de héroe a villano.Para mí el libro se divide en tres partes: Cuando eran niños, cuando ambos comenzaron a descubrir su talento innato en el mundo del periodismo y cuando llegan a la cima del poder.
I gave up on this half way through.... how many times can you rewrite Kane & Able?
I am going through a Jeffrey Archer period after buying a load of books in a charity shop.Never heard of this one before but it's quite good. It's a fictionalised biography of Murdoch and Maxwell; only the names have been changed to protect the guilty. I was really interested to see how these two crooks made it big and Archer, as ever, tells a riveting story. He's not big on prose or descriptions, but he knows how to tell a story that keeps you interested.
Jeffrey Archer's books, unlike most authors', had always been available to me when I was growing up in the mid 90's.
The wordsmith that is Archer has had me hooked these past few days when I was engrossed in reading this book.
I liked how Archer made two unlikable characters be heroes of this book.
Most of all I liked the style of the book.
Archer is fast gaining to become my favorite writer.
I need to ration these books so they don't get read too fast.
Can't wait to read more of Jeffrey Archer's books.

На финала на книгата изпитах едновременно облекчение заради образа, към който развих симпатия (не питайте защо, и двата основни образа по същество са чудовища, както е написано в книгата), но и любопитство към безразсъдното му последно изречение!Не съм чела Каин и Авел на същия автор, с която много хора сравняват Четвъртата власт, но може би след този роман, ще дам втори шанс на Каин и Авел!
Но харесвам Джефри Арчър и смятам, че ако се вълнувате от медии, политика и финансови дела, Четвъртата власт определено ще ви заинтригува.
I had never given a second thought to the way the newspaper industry works but if it's anything like this book then it must be one hell of a roller coaster.
It's got humor in the most unexpected situations which makes the reading fun.
This is also another reason why I love reading Jeffrey Archer books, he never degrades women by insulting them or making fun of them.
Love you Mister Archer!I rate this a 3.5 because compared to his other works, I know he can do better.Lots of love and pasta,Raven
Despite his somewhat dubious personal integrity and a lack of any literary gravitas to his novels,I've always found Jeffrey Archer to be a consummate storyteller and weaver of gripping tales ...
until now that is.The Fourth Estate traces the lives and fortunes of its two protagonists, who are destined to become rival newspaper barons.
Their changing fortunes throughout their childhoods, WW2 and later rivalry are laboriously recorded in minute detail and one cannot help but breathe a sigh of relief upon coming to the end of this very long-winded novel.
Unless you have a strong interest in newspaper publishing and/or banking, I'd give this one a miss.
I don't think anybody holds Jeffrey Archer up as a great writer, but he is an excellent story-teller, and therefore a provider of some very good entertainment."The Fourth Estate" tracks the lives - successes, failures, treachery - of two media barons, Richard Armstrong and Keith Townsend.
I think that Archer could easily have named his characters Faustus A and Faustus B, for these are indeed a couple of extremely nasty - amoral would probably be not too strong a word - characters who seemingly have no redeeming traits whatsoever.And as I say: how on earth did Archer get away with it?
This is a plodding effort by Archer.He has tried this formula before,the story of two men who become competitors.Didn't particularly interest me.
If anyone is considering reading this, save yourself the time and just read (or re-read) Kane and Abel instead. The Fourth Estate has the same premise, only without any charm.The characters are unlikable. The plot is boring and repetitive. I have read several of Jeffrey Archer's novels and this is the first one to disappoint me.If you start to read it and force yourself to continue just because you hope it gets better, believe me, it doesn't!
I had this book at my house. Not sure where it came from. It is a older book by this author. I enjoyed reading it. It had a good story to it. I like the variety of characters in it. I hope to read more books by this author.
THE FOURTH ESTATE I've said it many times that when it comes to story telling, Jeffrey Archer is the undisputed 'First Among Equals'.
'The Fourth Estate ' is another signature Archer masterpiece which will keep you glued to the pages late into the night.
The story of two Print Media barons, hailing from two completely different backgrounds with an insatiable appetite for owning as many newspapers in the world as possible.
It is only Jeffrey Archer who can make an otherwise mundane sounding topic of mergers and acquisitions seem like the most interesting thing in the world, even for the uninitiated.
Interesting read. Has a very very slow start and a lot of buildup. But second half more than makes up for it. The narration style is different than the usual Archer novels and how the two separate stories merge eventually at the end is really awesome.
like in his first three books that i have read, the fourth estate revolves around lawyers, money and the loopholes in laws created by human.when i read the first and second chapter, i dont have any ideas where the story is going to take me.
normally, the last sentence of each chapter will give a clue that something 'unexpected' will happen in the next chapter, and that is one reason i cannot put the book down!however, i give 4 stars to the fourth estate because i dont like the ending of townsend's story.
Truly a master of story telling.My views can be contrasting to many of readers here because this is first Jeffrey Archer book I’ve read.
And at the last of the chapter you find yourself at a position where it is difficult to put the book down because of some clue of change in the story.This book is all about to media moguls fighting to build the biggest newspaper empire in the world.
Lubji, fighting against Hitler secures his position in British world and changes his name to Richard Armstrong.
In the course of their business dealings they become bitter enemies& [return][return]I hadn t read all of a novel in quite some time, constantly starting books and not finishing them, something I don t like doing, so I decided to read a Jeffrey Archer novel, as I always have found his books gripping page turners, something I needed.
While I have read it all, and it may have started me back on the habit of reading, I have to admit I was very disappointed with this book.
Both feature two men, one an immigrant, one a man of rich, upper class upbringing, who become bitter enemies through the course of their business dealings.
One of the best novels I've read in a long time.
It's quite a fat read (just under 600 pages) but I managed to whizz through it in half of a week-long holiday in Mykonos.
If you want a real insight into how the media operates and how the news is created - er recorded - you could do worse than read this book.
I had no idea how gifted a storyteller Jeffrey Archer is until I read it.
His time in politics was clearly not wasted, even if it only meant that he observed a great deal about the media machine!
trashy fun and an enjoyable palate cleanser much like the other archer books i've read.
archer is jumping around so much in time/location here at points that i'm not sure i fully followed the maneuverings or plans of the two main characters.
i would give archer credit for writing a compelling book about two unscrupulous and unlikeable characters, though from what i've read, archer took much of the story from the real life battle between robert maxwell and rupert murdoch...

I enjoy Jeffrey archer very much. the intricate way he weaves a story and sucks you in. the Fourth estate was no different. the newspaper rivalry between the two MCs and the antics they went to to get one over on the other wouldn't let me skim because each chapter has a twist that I didn't see coming. it did get slow in places and tiresome as each new deal was intricately laid out. the twists though kept me reading more though.
The story of rivals and publishing moguls Richard Armstrong and KeithTownsend.An excellent read of greed and power that spans decades. The book starts at the end (1991) and then details the path of these two men in their quest and rise to control the world’s media. Dick and Keith will go to great lengths and expense to out do each other and others while building up their empire.Read Cain and Abel about 9 years ago and this was similar, but still engaging and intense.
Didn't get far and will go no further. Yuk!!
I enjoy Archer for light relief and he writes great characters. This one is pretty good, not his best, and I struggled with some of the plot lines, particularly near the end.
Similar story to Kane and Abel with less compelling characters
I had read a collection of his short stories and loved them, so my father recommended this book to me.
The last part that I thoroughly enjoyed was the balance Jeffrey Archer had between the newspaper industry and the main character's outside lives.
In the start, the story was mostly about the main characters outside lives - Townsend in Oxford and Armstrong(Lubji at the time) fleeing from country to country.
This was mostly in the middle of the book, when I felt like the newspaper industry was going so into depth that I felt the story line was being lost.
The beginning and ending definitely made this book a worthwhile read!

Made it 20% of the way through honestly page by page.
I think this is might be an OK book if you have plenty of time to dedicate to the practice of reading and researching, or ONLY read this book and nothing else.
Maybe even Armstrong, but I find it difficult to relate to people who you refer to primarily by surname.To be honest, I am not sure why this is a "#1 international bestseller" yet - it is incredibly long-winded, at 742 pages.
The other reviews say that the second half makes up for the slow build up so I will hold onto it until future notice...
English version bellowO livro chamado “o quarto poder” em português fala sobre o poder dos media no nosso mundo e como é tão facilmente corrupto e perigoso.
Um tema muito importante sobre o qual todos devemos estar atentos e, na medida do possível em para cada um, lutar contra e exigir dos media profissionalismo e responsabilidade sobre o seu trabalho.—-This book tells the story of the power of the media and how it can so easily be corrupted and dangerous.
A very important theme wish everyone should read about and, as best as possible for each of us, demand for responsible and truly professional work from the media

