https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2727537-84-charing-cross-road-the-duchess-of-bloomsbury-street
Long before the American writer Helene Hanff immortalised the street in 84 Charing Cross Road, the area enjoyed a storied association with the city’s literary scene and its accompanying book trade.
Marks & Co. have long gone, and 84 Charing Cross Road has been many things since; a wine shop, a restaurant, to name but a few.
There is also a plaque in the US, at Charing Cross House, 305 East 72nd Street, New York, where Helene Hanff once lived.- Plaques in the UK and USThis afternoon I read the reviews of this book by GR friends.
With the letter was a list of books that she had been unable to source in New York, saying that she would be willing to pay up to $5 each for them.The manager of the shop, Frank Doel, dealt with her order sending her some of the books on her list, and formally replying to her letter.
Slowly the formality was dropped, and Franke would address her as Helene; other members of staff would write to her, and even his wife, Nora.Sadly she was not able to visit Marks & Co and see the sights of London whilst the letters were winging their way back and forwards over the Atlantic, and at the end of the Sixties she received news that Doel had passed away.
The letters span a twenty year period, which is incredible in itself if one thinks about it.The Duchess of Bloomsbury is written in diary format, and closely follows the daily write-up of what Hanff did whilst in London on a book tour to celebrate the success (and British publication) of 84 Charing Cross Road.
Sadly, when Hanff arrived in the city which she had dreamed of for so long, Frank Doel had passed away, and the bookshop was just an empty shell, the only remnant of the successful shop the letters which spelt out 'Marks & Co.' on the outside of the building.
I know it's kind of pathetic that I continue to re-read books, but I was at a low point several weeks ago and needed something to help cheer me up.84, Charing Cross Road is a charming book, and as I was reading, my fellow bus and metro passengers may have been wondering why I was smiling so much.
Made me think that it's such a shame that people don't write letters more often and prompted me to pen one myself after I finished my reading!I believe that anyone who possesses an affinity for used books and/or has studied/read "older" or "classic" lit (including Donne and Austen and John Henry Newman--some of my favorites) would find 84, Charing Cross Road a real gem.
It is a beautiful, classic memoir of friendship and bibliophilia, twenty years of correspondence between Helene Hanff, an American writer in New York, and Marks & Co. antiquarian booksellers in Charing Cross Road, London where Frank Doel became her main correspondent.
Letters, books and quips crossed the ocean from 1949 until 1969 and a friendship flourished as Marks & Co. supplied the rare editions Helene was unable to find in New York.84, Charing Cross Road is combined here with its delightful sequel The Duchess of Bloomsbury Street, a diary kept by Helene when she finally made the trip to London.This is a book for all book lovers - an unmitigated delight.
The second part, The Duchess of Bloomsbury Street, is the aftermath of the letters being published in a book and Helene Hanff’s reception in London, which was every bit as good as the first part, to me.These two sections – this book – had it all from my perspective: humour, sensitivity, books, London, human connections.
Helene Hanff’s crazy, dry, New York sense of humour was fresh and delightful, perhaps especially so because of its juxtaposition to some of the kind, polite Englishmen she writes to and ultimately meets.
This is one of my favorite books of all time.
Helene Hanff is so very funny, and I am always moved by the friendship that develops through letters between her and a used book seller.
I also love her obvious affection for books and reading; she is definitely a kindred spirit.
This is the book I was reading (for the first time) 20+ years ago in the story Kitri wrote about me on her GoodReads page.
For those not in the know, as I sat on the floor finishing the last few letters, I became the center pole of a blanket tent being assembled by my three preschool children.
Reading this is like sitting in a cafe with a good friend from way back, eating Pavlova cake and letting the afternoon slide by, with cognac and coffee. Absolutely charming, witty, elegant and funny little book. Quite a bit nostalgic as well. Loved everything about it!
I shall buy a new copy of 84 Charing Cross Road and I shall leave it there for someone to find, a reminder of just how much Helene Hanff, even at a distance, loved the place.You see, I feel like I too owe it quite a lot.
If it weren’t for the bookshop and the wonderful people that kept it going for as long as it did, this book would not be a reality, and that’s not something I can live with.
Honestly, I can no longer imagine a world without the existence of this little peculiar and hopeful family.People brought together by books.
It's always a curious indulgence to read other people's letters, more so if those people had come to know of each other through books and had grown to be friends due to a mutual taste in a particular brand of literature, even more so if the content of their letters isn't limited to trivia from their mutual lives, and even more so if the correspondence spans decades but isn't really obsessive-compulsive. A breezy read.
Bought it this afternoon on a whim. Twenty pages in, and I'm in love already.
On 84 CHARING CROSS ROAD:This is a five star book.
In fact, the letters were exchanged between a 'script writer' for TV programs in New York and a person employed in a bookshop in London.
As a lover of literature and as a pilgrim to the Holy Land of English literature, if you plan to make the pilgrimage to London a prior reading of this book would be very welcome.Final Verdict:I would say that 84 CHARING CROSS ROAD is a lovely book for every one and its sequel may not be for every one.
Starting out as a request for obscure classics, the book follows the blossoming relationship with Helene and the people of Marks & Co. Followed by The Duchess of Bloomsbury Street, a collection of diary entries of Helene’s trip to England and the tour of bookshops.Helene noticed an ad in the Saturday Review of Literature and first contacted the shop in 1949.
You know that feeling in writing where you not sure if the person is being sarcastic or not, I started off wondering this but so found she had a wicked sense of humour and I’m so glad the people of Marks & Co never took offense (or they didn’t appear to).
It's snort-out-loud funny (and therefore NOT such a good choice for reading in public waiting areas); a clash of cultures between the two countries separated by a common language.
It takes you back to a different time, before Thatcher, before 'cool Britannia', almost to the time before modern tourism, when travelling meant staying with friends, or at the very least acquaintances of acquaintances, as long as you had the right letters of introduction.
This includes the diary Helene Hanff kept on her trip to London after the runaway success of 84, Charing Cross Road, which is slightly less entertaining than the wonderful contrast between her letters and those of Mr Doel, but only very slightly.
There isn't a thing I could say about this book that hasn't already been said. I loved it - every single word. Full review: http://jenn.booklikes.com/post/107981...
Just to make things clear, this book has two literary works of Helene Hanff:84 Charing Cross Road and The Duchess of Bloomsbury Street.I didn't want it to end.I would give it more than 5 stars if i could.My favorite books have increased. I have been to the UK too many times before and I do love it immensely but after reading this book, I "need" to go again and again.Reading this very charming book was an adventure through my favorite getaway place (UK) and my favorite subjects (English Literature and history.)Looove itLoooooove it.
ראיתי את הסרט (מזמן), והשנה קראתי בעברית, ואני שמחה שבחרתי לקרוא גם באנגלית. ספר אנושי, נוגע ללב ומרגש. בגרסה האנגלית שרכשתי יש תוספת של יומן שכתבה המחברת במהלך ביקורה הראשון בלונדון כדי לקדם את הספר. מקסים ממש.
This slim book starts as a collection of letters exchanged between Helene Hanff and Frank Doel, but also other staff and family members, between 1949-1969.
Helene is an American book lover and Frank Doel works for a London bookshop.
The beauty of this book was in the way this relationship gently develops over time in the form of letter writing, which is now a dated occupation to most.
The second part of the book starts in 1971 and we follow Helene as she becomes an author and reminisces about her links with England and the people that touched her heart.
A charming gem of a book.I love inscriptions on fly leaves and margins!A beautifully written book of letters from one book lover to another.Sadly by the time Helen visited London Frank Doel had died.Witty and charming.I loved the bit describing the dogs in Central Park.Makes me yearn to visit London again.
A charming tale which was lovely to read, from days gone by. Very nostalgic and sweet story.
This sat on my nightstand for a long time.
I occasionally took it up and read another chapter.
I do not know enough about the times and the places and even the books she talks about, but I do love books, and London, and history, and that connects us.
I finished the first part, which is an exchange of letters between the author in New York and her London bookseller, a long time ago.
I read that much faster.
I love reading letters.
The second part is her finally traveling to London, about the people she meets there (so many names, quite confusing) and her opinions on things.
84 Charing Cross Road: 3.5 starsThe Duchess of Bloomsbury Street: 3 stars
4'5 http://miscosaseyra.blogspot.com.es/2...
I first saw the film based on this collection of letters and reminiscences, and years later was thrilled to find the book in a 2nd hand shop.
The letters tell of the author's decades-long relationship with the bookshop in the title, as she collected "antiquarian" books (ie greats of English letters).
As my late and lamented Aunt Jeanne would have said (and did say on more than one occasion): "The rich are eccentric; the poor are just odd." Myself, I would amend that.
An eccentric knows they are odd, and enjoys it.
Da ich auf englisch gelesen habe fallen mir als erstes Adjektive wie "charming" und "delightful" ein. Dieses Buch ist ein unerwartetes kleines Juwel!Meine Ausgabe beinhaltet den Briefwechsel und die Fortsetzung "The duchess of Bloomsbury Street". Beides zieht einen von den ersten Sätzen an in den Bann. Es ist wirklich ein Jammer, dass offenbar viele Briefe verloren gegangen sind.Unbedingt lesenswert!
I’d probably give this 3 1/2 stars, but 3 is fine also. This was an entertaining, easy, and quick read, based on a series of letters written between a woman in New York and the people who run a book shop in England.
What a BEAUTIFUL book! I loved it, took a lot of notes and now I'm craving for English literature. What a book can do to you... Read this book through BookCrossing (a RABCK from pinklady60) and passed it on after reading it
Nb. this edition contained both 84 Charing Cross Road and its sequel, The Duchess of Bloomsbury.
84 Charing CrossWhen Helene Hanff, a resident of New York sees a newspaper ad for Marks and Co.’s bookstore of 84 Charing Cross Road, London, she decides to write to them inquiring about some books she’s seeking.
4/5The Duchess of BloomsburyHanff fulfils her life long dream of visiting London to promote her book, 84 Charing Cross Road.
She documents her daily excursions; meeting decades long friends for the first time and visits places that she’s only read about and seen pictures of.
רומן מכתבים קטן ונחמד. מעניין לראות את הספק
Short, funny and charming. We’ve really lost the art of letter writing and this book makes me yearn for it.
