https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/112750.Darkfever
I finished this book with two clear ambitions in mind:1. I wanted to jump on the next flight to Dublin.2. I wanted to sandwich myself between Jericho Barrons & V'lane (preferably naked).Let's just say that this is one of the most addictive stories I've read in a long time; even as I write this review, the second in the series is on it's way to me courtesy of Amazon.It just has... everything. A crime mystery, a fantasy world steeped in history and folklore, and the kind of men that you would
I finished this book with two clear ambitions in mind:1.
I wanted to jump on the next flight to Dublin.2.
I wanted to sandwich myself between Jericho Barrons & V'lane (preferably naked).Let's just say that this is one of the most addictive stories I've read in a long time; even as I write this review, the second in the series is on it's way to me courtesy of Amazon.It just has...
A crime mystery, a fantasy world steeped in history and folklore, and the kind of men that you would hate in real life but are the most erotic thing imaginable in literature.
I can't believe I've waited so long before starting this series!
(hide spoiler)] She says that just because she likes pink and has blond hair it doesn't mean she's Barbie, but she never really seems to act anything but dumb and naive.
Her actions around him are ridiculous, and at one point when he brings up her dead sister she yells, "ShutupIhateyou!", and yes, it's printed like that in the book.
(hide spoiler)]Not much better than Mac, Jericho Barrons is a reprehensible character.
(hide spoiler)]Unfortunately on top of the abuse, Barrons has practically no personality.
I haven’t had many good days lately”This series is told in retrospect and because of this we, the readers, get all sorts of ominous warnings throughout it along the lines of “If I had only known”, “One day those words would come back to haunt me”, “He’d never let me forget that fact” and so on.
While I loved this series the first time I read it, I didn’t appreciate it as much as I should have.
Even now, on my FOURTH read of this series, I’m still noticing things I didn’t pick up on before.
Before reading this series, I sort of wanted to go.
I can't hear what you're saying!Me: So what's your favourite part of the Fever series so far (He has read up to Dreamfever):Mr Kennedy: I definitely like Mac better now.
No!*Interview interruption as Mr. Kennedy goes to check*Mr Kennedy: Well, that's really embarrassing.Me: It's okay, honey.Mr Kennedy: I'm not a rapist.Me: I know that.Mr Kennedy: I mean, I thought it was sexy cause she seemed to like it.
I want that down on paper that I already figured it out.Me: Right...Mr Kennedy: Wait, did you add in the rapist thing?
No contest.Me: You'd pick Barrons over V'lane?Mr Kennedy: Is the right answer going to lead to sexy times?
No, really, you shouldn't have.This fucking book.I don't even know how to go about describing my love/hate relationship with this book.
The point is, it's ugly, it is horrifying, it is disgusting, but you just can't bring yourself to look away.I give this book too little credit, I feel, in my rant over my hatred of Jericho and MacKayla.
It is beautifully written and a credit to the author that I loved it this much despite how much I disliked the main characters.Praises over, it's time for me to go off on how much I HATE JERICHO AND MAC.I hated MacKayla's immaturity and prissiness, improbable action and TSTL behavior.
Rating is for the entire Fever series. Fast-paced and action packed, I plowed through all five books in a week.
Totally addicting, could not put it down!
The more clues she unearths, the more she begins to wonder if she's following in her sister's footsteps.Along the way, she partners up with Jericho, who is looking for the same ancient book that MacKayla is.
It is the first book in a series, so that may change as the series progresses.Although the story was just kind of "okay" for me, I did think that the narration was done well.
It was a nice story to pass some time, but I didn't love it like most of my friends did.
Original reviewI am no expert on urban fantasy and will not waste any time on analyzing the quality of writing of this genre book, I am just going to say that Darkfever's standard mix of ass-kicking heroine/amusing cast of secondary characters/lore/mystery/paranormal hunks worked for me.MacKayla Lane is a 22-year old blonde southern belle/bartender/part-time student who peacefully lives with her parents in a small Georgia town.
Her fae are interesting, with their various abilities to feed on humans' beauty, to make their unwitting victims sexually aroused, etc.What might turn off some readers:1) This book doesn't have a conclusive ending.
I will definitely read at least the next book in the series - Bloodfever.
He may show a different side to himself later in the series, but I don't think I'll be able to look past book 1 to ever find him remotely attractive.Mac is probably the most annoying heroine I've read in a long time.
Like, PLESAE bore me with the details because this is a, you know, BOOK.
By the time I finished the book, I feel like I know about as much about the characters and the world from when I started, which is nothing at all.
He does macho things in his spare time, like running a book store.
And it would have been even greater, if it weren't for Ms. Mackayla-call her Mac-Lane.Allow me to explain by posing some questions.1) You were warned that you are going to learn how to kill Fae. What do you wear?a) Fabulous lavender shorts with matching top and high heels-oh my God is that blood on your clothes?b)Something cozy you wouldn't mind throwing away later because, you know, mutilated bodies and stuff.c) Does it even matter?
Mac Version 1.0 The book starts off in Georgia. Mac is a pretty pampered. She works as a bartender, doesn't have much ambition..Just is. No, not Arby's..she is a bartender! Who happens to love pink..way too much.She is lying by the pool waiting on her parents to come home and spoil her some more when her world cracks. She gets the call that her adored sister Alina has been murdered in Dublin. She hops a plane and heads to Ireland because the police have given up on finding her killers and she is
She works as a bartender, doesn't have much ambition..Just is.
Barrons is pretty much an ass..but he is hawt so that kinda is overlooked..yes even by my hating ass.After Mac realizes she can see the Fae she is informed they might not like that and will kill her Barbie butt.
So Barron takes her in and together they start hunting Fae objects plus the book that her sister died trying to locate.
Once it's realized that the fae know that Mac can see them she is forced to change her appearance.
Plus I'm ready for another version of Mac.......
the shadowy and intriguing fae, seelie and the unseelie, Sidhe-Seers, druids and more and more dark and light beings….I could not put the book down… I had to turn the next page so I could find out what would happen next ………This book begins with Mac travelling from her safe, privileged and cocooned life in Georgia, USA to Dublin, determined to finding her sister’s killer….
Nail-biting stuff!!!!!!!!Using Dublin as the main setting in the story is just so clever...it’s a murky, shadowy, wet and dismal place, with dark cobbled streets and scary alleys….just the right place for evil to breed and live!!And how could any book lover not love Jericho Barron’s bookshop???
A cardboard box would have much more personality than him.On the other side of the spectrum, we have V'lane, a Fae who basically kills people by making them want sex so bad it makes them go crazy.
At all.Also, every single guy Mac meets in this book is apparently hot/sexy/attractive/buff/cute/dresses nicely.
WHAT UNIVERSE DOES MACKAYLA LANE LIVE IN?!Another little qualm of mine: How the heck is this book listed as a romance novel?
I can't even say that Mac and Barrons are friends, let alone anything more.Rage-inducing things aside, this book definitely had a lot of potential.
My apologies to Olivia, I know you weren't blown away by Action Barbie and her gang of new friends, but OMG I loved this.Another one of those books I can't read in public.
I was constantly grumpy for the past few days, without having a real reason.Conversations with me pretty much went like this:Person: Kim?Me: WHAT?So after having to reanimate a few of those persons I put 2 and 2 together and realized it was because I felt anxious every moment I wasn't reading this book.There was not one dull chapter in this book, I kept wanting to find out what would happen next.
Ms. Moning delivers with her concept of the Fae, and with this story of the inception of a young woman's crusade to find out who murdered her sister and why.
Along with Mac, I was thrown to the wolves, exposed to the cruel, ruthless, and extremely scary nature of the Fae. I am very interested in stories that show Faeries not as the cute, glittery sprites that dance around flowers and giggle in high-pitched voices, but the otherworldly type, who view humans as objects to be used and discarded, when they aren't ignored as beneath their notice.
I don't care.► Rating breakdown:✔ Jericho Fucking Barrons: 100 stars (view spoiler)[ (hide spoiler)]✘ MacKayla You-Annoy-The-Hell-Out-Of-Me Lane: -97 stars►►3 glorious stars it is.Until next time,First reread with my girl Tanya starting Jan 7, 2015.Original rating: 3New rating: 4Do you people seriously expect me to write another review for this book?
Until next time.Original review (November 2014)Buddy read with my MacHalo girls starting November, 3 2014.So. Darkfever.
I was pretty much hooked after reading the prologue as I fell in love with Mac's narrative voice right away (not with Mac herself, but more on that later).
Second book of 2016 DONE! Really enjoyed this one for what it is.... A fun sexy paranormal new adult book! It's short and gets to the point, it's exactly what I wanted and kept me reading into the weeeeeee hours of the night/morning. Good thing I have the next 4 books in the series, cause this one ended way too soon!
Abandon Hope, All Ye Who Enter Here. First I was like “Fever re-read huh? I’m gonna combine-read it with some other book because I’m that cool.”And then I was like “Fuck this shit it’s Fever were talking about. My mind can handle only one load of awesomeness at a time.”The first time I’ve read Darkfever I didn’t like Mac much. The reasons are obvious. She’s a weakling pretty little blond spoiled brat. However, now I can’t help but love the woman because of what she became throughout the series.
I’m gonna combine-read it with some other book because I’m that cool.”And then I was like “Fuck this shit it’s Fever were talking about.
My mind can handle only one load of awesomeness at a time.”The first time I’ve read Darkfever I didn’t like Mac much.
Yes?Read the books and you’ll know.Anyway, reading Darkfever for a second time was very entertaining and refreshing.
Nevertheless, the best part of re-reading a series is knowing how it ends.
Now I KNOW EVERYTHING.It sure feels good.Darkfever is, in fact, the weakest of the Fever books, but it does have lots of memorable moments.
The room had been full of books before, now it was full of him.”  All I can say is if you want a completed book series with an incredible plot, a unique world, and vivid, multi-layered characters with deep pasts, where EVERYTHING happens for a reason (having finished them, I realized there was absolutely NO fluff in these series at ALL), and a full-filling, heart-warming HEA, then this is the series for you.Moning does a masterful job of building an world full of multiple complex story lines and then weaves them all together seamlessly in a way that will keep you guessing right up till the very end.
I love books, by the way, way more than movies.
A good book lets you choose a few thoughts for yourself.
A good book tells you there's a pink house and lets you paint some of the finishing touches, maybe choose the roof style,park your own car out front.
Why, then, Ms. Lane, do you look like a perky rainbow?”
Was a bit wary as it was set in Ireland, in Dublin.
Stop pining for the man you think I could be -- and take a good, long, hard look at the one I am.” 
"Ass, Barrons.”
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ Ahhhhh, stop yelling at me already and let me explain.It seems everyone liked this book. I’m talking everyone. EVERYONE. Except me. I. Just. Don’t. Get. It.  Okay, not really. This is obviously a case of it’s not you, it’s me. Maybe I’m too mature for stories of the supernat . . . BWAHAHAHAHA! I couldn’t even type that without laughing. I don’t really know what went wrong, so I’m gonna play it safe and blame it on Sookie Stackhouse .
I don’t really know what went wrong, so I’m gonna play it safe and blame it on Sookie Stackhouse .
Turns out that’s a good thing as Mac has some special powers of her own.
Barrons recruits Mac in order to find the Sinsar Dubh – the most powerful of all of OOPs that can destroy the world as we know it.
Although the world building was pretty lame for me, I’m assuming it gets better since there are a crapton more books in this series.
That’s good – assuming Mac and Barrons ever leave the f-ing bookstore.4.
Reasons that made me love this book and made me read the whole series multiple times:1. Jericho Barrons.2. Naughty, sexy V'lane. The death-by-sex Fae.3. Ireland and especially Dublin.4. The world building. The Fae. The Seelie and Unseelie. I haven’t really decided which of them are the bad ones.5. The pubs in Dublin where you can meet monsters.6. BARRONS BOOKS & BAUBLES. The bookstore which stands between two worlds. I want to live there!7. The rainbow outfit.8. The Sinsar Dubh. Just the fac
Reasons that made me love this book and made me read the whole series multiple times:1.
Jericho Barrons.2.
Naughty, sexy V'lane.
The death-by-sex Fae.3.
Ireland and especially Dublin.4.
The world building.
The Fae. The Seelie and Unseelie.
The pubs in Dublin where you can meet monsters.6.
BARRONS BOOKS & BAUBLES.
The bookstore which stands between two worlds.
Just the fact that A BOOK is the most powerful dangerous thing in the world, makes me happy.9.
Have I mentioned Barrons?
I could not stop reading.And there is this anticipation that something big is coming in the next books.
When you read this book the first time, you see a young, naively superficial, but well-intentioned young woman grieving who travels to Dublin to try and find answers to her sister's bizarre murder.
Mac isn't going to let them take over the world, and she is going to use her new-found powers, along with Barrons connections and strength to take back the planet!This book starts it all and I'll always love this series.
The THIRD Fever series MacHalo Group Re-read starts November 23, 2017.
This will actually be my fourth time reading, so screw it.
Also, I liked the fact that there were many different settings and not principally in a specific place like my latest read book, Cruel Beauty (which was also a very good but quite different book.)The characters were very entertaining and riveting.
A reason why I love reading urban fantasy series is that they remind me of action-packed TV shows.
I love seeing the character developpements from the first to the final books.
I love book shops, but it's just not the place I was expecting.
My own personal fantasy is V'lane:To every person who has yet to read this book, do so.
The gist of it is: An interesting set-up in terms of world-building, but I’m not attached to the characters in the slightest.
Granted, it’s a bit different in a major city like Dublin, but still…Can you tell I’m attached to Ireland?
There are plenty of characters on the UF block (another barmaid comes to mind) who have never encountered something Other - and yet, they manage to slap on the wary and conduct themselves in a careful manner that encourages their survival (even while trying to deny the scary thing staring them in the face).
You want to believe in black and white, good and evil, heroes that are truly heroic, villains that are just plain bad, but I've learned in the past year that things are rarely so simple. The good guys can do some truly awful things and the bad guys can sometimes surprise the heck out of you.  MacKayla Lane has her life together: a loving family she adores, a sister that is also a best friend, a job that pays in the environment she thrives in (partying) and courses at the local community colleg
There are numerous reasons why I love the Fever series: the setting (Ireland and Scotland have been two obsessions of mine from a very young age), the characters (Mac and Barrons in particular, but the entire cast is just wonderful and perfectly done), the plot, histories and legends incorporated so well you'd think Ireland truly was infested by murderous castes of Fae ready to take over the world.As this reader's second reread, Darkfever, the first book in the series, revealed many plot points easily missed or overlooked the first time.
The thing is, my first time I was so closed-minded, bothering about little details like "why is this chick so worried about her looks??" or "when is Barron gonna be a good boy?" or the worst kind: "What is he?".
Why would she regret that decision later?" I'm telling you, it only took me a few pages to feel excited about it and I've already started reading the second book.
I loved Barrons more this time around too.
I don't know how I'm going to wait until November 9th to re-read Bloodfever!Second read thoughts (Nov 2014): This is the first series I've re-read here at Goodreads, and I have to say, it's better this time around than the first!
It took probably until book 3 before I started to really like him, but I think I understand him a little bit more this time around.
So, if you like urban fantasy, this is UF at its best.Original review:This is a quick, fun read.
November 2017 Re-re-read - gettin LIT with the MacHalo tribe!!!Took me 3 reads to finally realize how much KMM likes to insert her personal opinions into this book... and she rambles, for gods sake.
