https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8250109-revolution-in-world-missions
If you're not a Christian this is a very dry read .
The books plea is that affluent Christians in the west need to quit wasting time money and efforts into sending their own missionaries to the Asian nations and start supporting national missionaries .
The point of prejudice aside , many nations today do not allow Western missionaries to enter , Christians in the West need to find a new way to spread the gospel .
I would consider reading it if you are a Christian interested in missionary work and to learn more about current missions over seas .
This book shakes all of your cultural foundations. Honestly written, KP's story of experiencing America for the first time opens our eyes... it challenged me to pursue real change.
Reading this, you know God is working in crazy ways, and that satan is real and trying to wreck people.
America has luke warm Christians or people who are religious going to church for the sake of tradition, which is a demonic tool as well, but used differently.
Two very different places, yet two very open ministry areas to minister in for those who are passionate about the cause of Christ.His attack in Chapter 5 probably does more bad than good in trying to win Americans over.
However, a couple chapters later Yohannan says that giving money is different for everyone, and God leads each of us differently.
He opened my eyes to how lucky I am and how often I neglect to think, feel, or live that way.In the second part of the book he also talked about the importance of native missionaries and their important role in bringing the Gospel of Christ to the lost souls in the two-thirds world.
The only thing that did really shake me deep down was when he spoke such truthful words into my heart about the issue of trust not only maybe American's feel but me personally feels regarding trusting the "good news" in the hands of native missionaries.
Mr. Yohannon makes an excellent case for supporting native missionaries rather than sending missionaries from the West into unreached territories overseas.
Not only do the native missionaries cost less, but they already know the language, customs, and culture and are far more attractive to their fellow citizens than foreigners are.This book is also part autobiography that inspires, convicts, and entertains.
The only downside is Mr. Yohannon's sales pitches for his own mission agency.
I am sure this is a highly qualified mission agency, but after a while it comes across as self-promoting and almost tacky.
No one can deny that Dr. Yohannan has a heart for his people and the mission he has been called to.
I notice that some of the previous reviewers who rated the book poorly were offended by his call to Western Christians to live a life of sacrafice in order to support missionsaries in Asia.
However, Dr. Yohannan touched my heart, because he rightly pointed out that too many of us Western Christians live a life of materialism far beyond that which is necessary to live at peace with our western neighbors.
The main point that the author is trying to make in this book is that the most effective way to reach the lost throughout the world is to utilize indigenous missionaries (aka Indians evangelizing Indians).
Maybe it's just me, but I think he didn't take the high road in that section.Second, he largely misses the point (though he barely acknowledges it at the end of the book) that God calls some people to world missions.
I am one of those people that feels called to missions (hence, I'm in Brazil now as a missionary).
but does that mean that I'm not called to missions?
There are various claims circulating about the ministry of GFA and several pending court cases.
If they are, it will be very sad as this is a ministry I have supported and volunteered for over the years.
KP came to speak at my church in England and I was so challenged by his message that I ended up in mission work myself.
I devoured this book and have read it several times over the years.
This book will challenge, convict and offend.
GFA was, at the time, the only organisation promising to send 100% monies to the field and using native workers.
This was an excellent book. I was very challenged and made to think! There were a few parts that i didn't agree with, but where i did, i did whole-heartedly. :))
And above all the book and its author, K.P. Yohannan, present a Biblical, God-centered philosophy of missions and of the Christian life (which things should be inseparable).
I encourage you to read it all the way to the last page, especially the Q/A section, which clears up those niggling questions we all have.Yohannan makes excellent points in showing the contrast between the Western Christian's world and the Asian (India in particular) world, and why the indigenous missionaries experience much greater success in their Gospel presentation.
I recommend this book to anyone who is seriously concerned with living a Christ-centered life and winning the lost to Jesus Christ.
I have heard about the "mission effort" in the church since I was a child.
This is a new perspective on missions that I was blessed to read and consider.On a personal level, I enjoyed reading about KP's life and upbringing, straddling two worlds and through that receiving a very unique call in God's kingdom, which is his current ministry effort.
Who would have thought that we "the American church" needed people sent from God to show us grace and to help us learn how to truly follow Jesus in the midst of all the noise and stuff in our lives.Great book!!!
A huge percentage of the world's population lives far below the standards we enjoy in the U.S. Yohannan is director of Gospel for Asia, and their primary goal is to support native missionaries in Asia.
For many reasons, natives can minister more effectively than Westerners in most Asian countries.
God is doing an amazing work in the Third World.
What is humbling is how much native missionaries do with so little.
If we had to live in their circumstances, we would quickly crumble and start questioning the goodness of God. They are an incredible testimony to us, and should motivate us to get off our fat American rear-ends and throw ourselves into supporting their work!
I really enjoyed this book.
K.P. Yohanan's testimony is amazing.
The work God is doing through native Indian missionaries is amazing.One MAJOR caveat: This book can give the impression that Asia does not need white missionaries.
I know many people, including myself, came away from the book feeling as if we had no place in the Asian church.
But that is a complete misunderstanding of the gospel.
Asia needs white missionaries, black missionaries, etc.
Just like America needs Korean missionaries and Indian missionaries.
There is always a place for foreign missionaries to correct the native perspective, whether native is the United States or Malawi.
This was a book club pick, and I have always read the book club picks, no matter how I felt about them, so the fact that I am tossing this one aside is significant. I tried, I really tried, but this guy's version of Christianity is not for me. He lost me when he basically said that it is ok to let the Third World starve, as long as we save their souls first. Enough said. I have wasted all the time I am going to on this guy.
That the future of global evangelization is no longer served by the 18th century philosophy of the white missionary trekking to distant jungles to bring the dark heathen to the light.God has revealed that the indigenous missionary movement, that is annointed, called, believers from within the many nations where the masses of the lost are located, is the most effective tool for bringing to pass the vision that John had in Revelation of peoples from every nation('ethnae' - people group), tribe and toungue gathered before the throne of the Lamb worshipping Him. Yohannan gives specific reasons why this is so.
Of course in learning how unlikely it is for people to be transformed by Christ by white missionaries where the country does not freely allow missionaries compared to national ones and how it was described in this book really opened my eyes for instead wanting to support those who are already in Asia spreading the gospel.
This book is a must read though if you are hoping to become a missionary in another country.
I hope to be able to do work in my own country and perhaps work with organizations such as Gospel for Asia in order to support the work of the Great Commission.
Thinking back, it seems more like a sales pitch to get money for GFA then a story about anything.
I liked the stories of what was actually happening through GFA, but it was a very dry read.
I don't really have a biased opinion of missions, I think it is ridiculous that we do spend so much money to send people over there, especially the trips that are more vacations, like going to water parks and tourism, instead of telling people about Jesus.
I can't really talk though, because I am so awkward and shy it is not like I am going around telling people either.
I absolutely loved this book, except chapters 12 and 13, which seemed to contradict each other.
He passionately crushes Christian humanitarian efforts in chapter 12 and essentially condemns anyone attempting to meet physical needs as a means to start the gospel conversation.
Yet in Chapter 13, he writes that GFA preaches the gospel while reaching people's physical needs.
To me it came across as though he didn't trust any other organization to offer aid with the gospel except his own, which is unfair when you're asking for money.
This book is INCREDIBLE! It will give you a different outlook on life. It really brought me back to what being a "Christ" like Christian is all about. KP Yohannan has clearly pinpointed the truths about many American churches. We are indeed a "Sleeping Giant" with a need to deny our flesh, pick up our cross and follow the plans of our God!Everyone living in the USA should read this book. This book is also FREE, Visit www.gfa.org and request a free copy. Or ask me! I will gladly give you mine = D
An interesting, insightful, and thought-provoking book about world missions.There were a few things that I might not quite agree with all the way, or have something to add, but overall, it was a challenging book.
Read it if you want to know how God is moving on the worldwide stage and if you are willing to be changed in the process. Don't read it if you wish to stay comfortable with how you looked at the world before you open this book.
• K. P. Yohannan. gfa books, a division Gospel for Asia. 212 pages.• Revolution In World Missions. The title told me that a major change within the missionary field was and is occurring. Once I saw the cover, I swear my heart stopped. It told me exactly the type of book I was reading and how it was slightly different than your usual bibliography.• It drew me instantly with the cover: a street road fades into an old dirt road, a huge grassy plain, and leather feeling on the touch of the top of a
It fits extremely well with the book because a lot of it talks about the changes that a man had to undergo in order to do the right missionary work -within himself and within a group.
He is now living as a missionary to spread the Gospel around the world.I now want to meet this man before he passes, God forbid so soon.•	The biggest theme in this book wraps around the thematic subjects of patience and hope: “Things come to those who wait.” For example, on page 68, it shows a clear depiction of the theme.
Yohannan writes with such raw emotion and his life is so notably a living example of sacrifice that it impacted me in a very real way.
In fact, I had to set the book down for a while to sort of "catch my breath." The intensity of my emotions were overwhelming and I needed to step away and process some of what the Lord was doing in my heart.Second, Revolution in World Missions puts the death nail in the coffin of the social gospel - which is no gospel at all!
As I continued examining the cover, I noticed the words "gospel" and "Asia." As previously mentioned, I absolutely love world missions to spread the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and noticing those words on the cover of the book sparked an interest in me.
He's witnessed Christian missionaries get stoned to death right before his very eyes, but God in all his glory gave Yohannan the heart of a martyr.
Yohannan had a calling to be a missionary for God, and with that calling, he knew that he had to step out of his comfort zone in order to change the world for the better.
The first half of this 200 page is the author's story of how he got involved in missions work and eventually founded Gospel for Asia.
in the first 100 pages.To the author's credit, though, he did make some good points about national missionaries.
Points such as how national missionaries understand the culture they are preaching to and are cheaper to support but, again, these points could have easily been made in half the length.If you are a westerner interested in being a missionary, not a really good read.
If you are interested in who national missionaries are and the work that they do and how you can support them, read this book.
However, Brother K.P. emphasizes that the whole point of mission work is forming relationships with the lost and healing their souls.
Favorite Quote: "The Great Commission reveals the reason God has left us here in this world, the main activity of the Church until Jesus returns as the King of kings to gather us to Himself.
Disciple-making, as Jesus defined it, obviously involves the long-term process of planting local churches.Note too that the references to the Great Commission are accompanied by promises of divine power.
The global expansion of the Church obviously is a task for a special people who are living intimately enough with God to discern and exercise His authority." (P.170-171)
In recent years, GFA has been highlighted for numerous corrupt practices in financial and spiritual matters (a quick google search will reveal what I am talking about).It is really a shame because KP's message is vital for the church, he challenges western christians to rethink the great commission, and he does it well.
All through the book, he faithfully decries the social gospel, poor stewardship of funds spent on missions, sins in the life of church elders etc.
I wish the KP we saw in this book was the KP in real life, I would be the first to back him.
I thought Yohannan touched on excellent points, but I'm unsure about the overall tone of the book in the way he directs the Western church to act.
In the beginning of the book, he condemns Westerners for living too extravagantly (perhaps a valid point), but then he doesn't give much more of a challenge other than "give my organization money" [again, my own cynical viewpoint].
Again, I thought Yohannan brought up excellent points and challenged my thinking of how we can possibly reach unreached people groups, but I'm left feeling a big discouraged about his charge for Westerners.
After stumbling upon a banner on a Christian website advertising this book for free, claiming that this book 'would change you life,' I decided to order the book.
We as Americans are greedy, and do not put our money where our mouth is - raiding money for an organization, and then spending more money on the pasta banquet after the fundraiser on ourselves!After reading this book, I became involved in GFA immediately, and thenceforth starting supporting a national missionary in India, and a Bridge of Hope child in India as well.
If you are a Christian, I charge you to order this book free here: http://www.gfa.org/offer/freebook/I pray it changes your life - and pushes you to action.Brent McCulley (10/26/13)
KP Yohannan gives a vivid and powerful look at current state of south Asia and how Western Christians, in the USA specifically, can follow God by assisting missions there.
I would definitely recommend this to all Christians in the US, as I think this perspective is not heard often (if at all).
As a note, Yohannan focuses specifically on the 10/40 window (mainly India).
That said, I definitely think it is possible to assist missions both in the 10/40 window and everywhere else, so it's not really harmful that he focuses on it.
