https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1591750.Brood_of_the_Witch_Queen
I especially enjoyed the blending of science and the supernatural with spiders and other bugs, haunting smells and glowing lights, and actually some vampires and even mummies!
Still, I enjoyed it from its strong, sinister start to the weaker finish.It begins on a sinister note as Robert Cairn sees Apollo, the king of the swans, who seems to have died without apparent reason right in front of his eyes!
When Robert goes to investigate, he discovers that the swan had its neck broken in three places.
He goes to the nearest home, the one of Antony Ferrara.
While in Ferrara’s home, Robert sees and smells some strange things; he glimpses numerous Egyptian artifacts and the strangest of all, an unwrapped mummy.
I chose to read this book on a whim as it was a free read from Kindle and I was trying to lessen my exorbitant book-purchase costs...All I can say is that I was pleasantly surprised, albeit slightly weirded out by some of the creepy content of this book.
I read through, constantly wondering what would happen next!
It's been a while since I've read something that kepy my attention so well, and I must admit that I was surprised to find it in this book since it was so randomly picked up!
I tip my hat to the fine folks at Project Gutenberg: virtually every title I have or will be reading in the near future comes from them.The Brood of the Witch-Queen is a return to Egyptian mysteries rather than that of China for Sax Rohmer.
Once after they believe he has be beaten and “contained” he slips away to Egypt only to further his power and attempt to complete his destiny (maybe Lucas read this once long ago).Although it is fairly fast-paced, the heavy occult and supernatural details make this feel a bit different from the more run-of-the-mill evil doer story.
Only the tale "The Whispering Mummy" was disappointing to me in that regard.The novel Brood of the Witch-Queen suffers mostly from a character who knows what is going on, but reveals only what he wants to (or has time to as he is always running around doing something else).
Rohmer is excellent at creating the atmosphere of exotic dread that is necessary for this tale and parts of his tale are down-right scary.This collection is quite different from his Fu Manchu tales; but if you enjoyed those, give some of his other stuff a try.
The writing in this book felt surprisingly almost modern. I mean, surprisingly for something written almost 100 years ago. I also got the impression that the chapters were published in a series of periodicals, the references to earlier events sometimes felt like the author expected people to have forgotten. Anyway, not much else to say, liked the whole Egyptologist's-ghost-story-deal, pretty good, quick read
A wonderful black magic/Egyptian novel that takes place during the early 20th during the height of the Egyptology crazy.
For the most part the story in this book is fantastic as the adventure of the main characters takes them from London to Cairo has they chase down and ancient evil force of magic.
The son in the book never seems to fully grasp the danger of the magic he is I despite the repeated instances of it upon him.
This book was all ready to be placed on one of my favorite of all time lists, but the ending blew it.
This was such a random read for me- was a free choice for Kindle.
I'm a lover of all things witchy and underworld, so naturally this caught my eye (and did I mention, it was free?) The book starts off fairly quickly and doesn't waste any time jumping into the supernatural.
I wouldn't say that this got me creeped out or anything, but it was interesting enough for me to keep reading past midnight- it felt more like watching a really cooky show.
As several have noted the ending is completely stupid, but that's ok- I wasn't expecting much from this one any way.
Fairly interesting story. Not nearly up to horror standards of today, but it had its moments. Due to this being written in London in the early 1900s, the language can be difficult to follow at times.I would have given this 3 stars, but the ending was like a Steven King ending - no idea how it should really end so just do something stupid.
This book was written nearly a century ago, so maybe that accounts for my negative feelings about it. I guess he was using cheesy phrases and syntax before it was cheesy.The story is not bad, although it's a little too predictable. My real issue is the use of over-the-top language and lots and lots AND LOTS! of exclamation points. LOTS!
I liked it. It's the WWI equivalent of a full-season arc on Buffy where they fight one especially scary vampire.There's a lot of good spooky post-Victorian magic in here. I especially liked the mummy skull full of magic beetles.The ending is such a resounding anticlimax that I almost like it. Rohmer knew he was going to end it fast, too, which is why he was dropping so many hints about it.
at times, the tone of this story seemed highbrow, hoity-toity, as you're reading along, taking it all in, trying to get a handle on the bad guy...this brood who is....doing things...doing things says something w/o spoiling it......and...you're (i was) wondering, why?
heh heh.there's some weirdness happening...these unattached hands.
kind of an Addams Family sort of thing...remember that show?
Was it Thing?
The hand?
One of them, thing/it was the hairball creature.
could be that television ruint me...thinking or making this Adams Family connection where none exist.But...the story moves around...Europe, Egypt...Also at times, I heard this old black and white movie....oh shit, the mummies following us.
Of the ten books by Sax Rohmer that I've read, this is among his best. Originally serialized, it reads like a collection of short stories as the Father-and-son team of Bruce and Robert Cairn hunt the evil magician Antony Ferrara across England and Egypt. Many of the scenes are quite creepy, and must have pushed the envelope for 1918. The heavily dramatic prose and characterizations might deter some readers, and the ending is abrupt; but this book will hold high entertainment value for aficionados of the genre.
Unique And ImaginativeJust finished Brood Of The Witch Queen and I can say that the story was highly imaginative and kind of fun to read since it was written so long ago. Some of the scenes were just so unique and strange. I wouldn't call the book particularly scary, but it is well worth reading. The characters are sometimes so overly dramatic as to be rather humorous, but that's just because the story was written such a long time ago - when women were prone to swooning!
Wonderful build up of menace throughout the book, and the only thing that stopped it getting 5 stars was that the ending was a bit abrupt. It's also an entertaining way to learn about some of the beliefs and practices of ancient adepts. When reading Rohmer on the occult, it is always worth keeping in mind that he wrote a very good non-fiction book on the subject - The Romance of Sorcery
Clever, fast-paced little adventure by the creator of Fu-Manchu. In this book, the villain is the son of a 5,000 year-old Egyptian sorceress -- a fun ride, although the ending is very abrupt, almost as if the author had suddenly realized that he was over his work limit or something and had to wrap things up in a hurry.
Combines the breathless overheated excitement and adventure and the diabolical criminal masterminds of Rohmer's Fu Manchu and Sumuru novels with all manner of fiendish occult wickedness. It’s very very pulpy, it’s campy and it’s trashy, but it’s also fast-paced, clever, ingeniously contrived and thoroughly enjoyable.
I've read this book first time when I was 12 maybe 15 years old. And I loved it. So when I piked it up few years ago I was very disappointed. Writing was terrible, plot so so, characters plain and whitout any charisma. Maybe in orginal was better, but the translation was average.
Possibly Sax Rohmer's most supernatural novel. As with many of Rohmer's early novels, due to magazine publication, it's as much a collection of short stories, which is fine as most of them are very good, but it also makes for a unsatisfyingly perfunctory ending.
was worth reading once...I did not like how the ending was presented and the antagonist's back history was scanty but understandable...the protagonist's back history needed more explanation...
I found this one quite enjoyable, with a unique take on ancient horror and a colorful villain of a different sort. Lots of great British exclamations like “Merciful God!”, etc. It’s not literature, certainly not better written than novels by some of the masters I’ve rated lower, but a lot of fun and with some great suspense. Not many novels of any time, let alone back then, make use of anthropomancy as a plot device...
Nice entertainment not educational but if you feel relaxed with supernatural and horror it's perfect book to enjoy
and read these sometimes.)The settings and atmosphere are a lot of fun, especially in Egypt -- I probably wish more of the book happened there.
But he would refuse to say, giving pretty lame reasons like "you'd think me mad!" It's fun to say that once, but when fantastic events are happening, then no, we believe you and we want to know.
Rohmer needs/needed to come up with a better reason, if he even needs to have one protagonist know but not share the answers.That's typical of the laziness or haste that mars his books.
An enjoyable collection of horror short stories, as well as the titular novella, mostly having to do with Egyptian (ancient and modern) themes.
There is a nice introductory essay by editor S.T. Joshi that places the collection in context of Rohmer's life.The stories move quickly, and even the most absurd plot is crafted so well as to be enjoyable.
Even the female characters are often more than mere wilting flowers.Recommended for fans of horror and for those who might only know Rohmer from his Fu Manchu series, which actually comprises the minority of his published work.
First published in 1918, this is another of Rohmer's standalone novels.
I thought it better than the last book of his I read: The Quest of the Sacred Slipper (1914) (although not by a lot).The story seems to go in fits and starts, with abrupt transitions.
In one case I think Rohmer just decided to take the story in a different direction.The most interesting thing about this book to me is the ineffectiveness of the main character.
He is continually on (or even over) the edge of a nervous breakdown, more than once is paralyzed with fear and spends most of the story totally lost.
He was a big fan of Conan Doyle, Lovecraft, and the Egyptian book of the Dead.
I was a big fan of Bram Stoker and Montague Summers vampire lore.
I loved reading this again after 45 years, and it was good choice for the first full length book I downloaded to my kindle.
A fun and scarey read that's hard to put down if you're into this sort of thing.
The only reason I gave it four stars instead of five is because of the abrupt ending.
I would have liked a little more closure, on the other hand, how many real horror stories have happy endings?
Unfortunately it was a sign of the times that racist remarks were freely written and accepted by many authors, Sax Rohmer was no different.That sad fact aside, this series of books was written by the masterful Sax Rohmer where there is no dull moment, no chance of catching your breath, and all the reasons why he was such a great author in each book.
A style all his own written at a time when harlots, whores and racy clothing wasn't needed to capture and maintain a readers attention.
I couldn't put this book, or any of his other Fu Man Chu works, down.
This is a very interesting book. Very fun to read. It was written a while ago and it comes through in the writing style and dialog. Very antiquated. Basically, this is like "The Mummy" with black magic and such. Dialog is like a mummy movie from the 1940s. The great thing about this book is that it moves right along. Not a lot of time wasted at all. It reads like someone telling you a story. A very creepy story.
Found this rather disappointing. It had great potential but the horror moments failed to unnerve me and often they came across as lackluster or melodramatic.The characters were not strong enough to make me feel anything for them. The story had some good moments, hence my awarding it two stars rather than one, but on the whole I did not feel engaged by this work. I thought the ending was especially lame.
I first read this when I was 13. The sun was going down and my parents were out. I couldn't move from my chair under they got home, paralyzed with fright. Oh sure, this tale of a reanimated mummy living in England is dated, over-the-top and at some level ridiculous. But give it to any 13-year-old today at sunset and see what happens when he/she reaches the point where the invisible silken cord...slowly....slowly...NO, I WON'T TELL YOU!
A battle against the supernatural, told in pulp fashion. The novel was serialized, and it reads that way. It commits many pulp sins -- timely coincidences that save the hero's butt, loose ends that never get tied up, characters who withhold information just to keep the suspense going. The ending seems rushed. And yet, it was fun to read, and a young John Malkovich would have been perfect if cast as the villain.
