https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6398634-the-happiness-project
Regardless, any reasonable person would wonder why this woman was worrying about how to be “happier” than she already was with her “soul mate” husband, two healthy children, a family she likes, in-laws* she likes, plenty of free time, and money coming out the wazoo.
The obvious question is: “If she wants to be happier, why doesn’t she do more service?” The question you’ll also probably ask, repeatedly, is “What could a smug perfectionist with an easy life possibly teach me?” Honestly, I have no idea, unless it hasn’t already occurred to you to.....are you sitting down?.....stash your crap in file boxes instead of leaving it strewn all over, and stop nagging your husband.
And I wanted to like it, I swear, but it just wasn't happening for me.I picked this book up because I have an interest in how others achieve happiness, enjoy getting a glimpse into how others conduct their lives on a daily basis (I even find grocery selections interesting, and what goes into them), and have gotten a kick out of several stunt journalism projects.
Rubin's research and methodical attempts at achieving her elusive gold star happiness appealed to me.
Author Gretchen Rubin dives into the stunt genre (where the author does something for a year and then writes a clever book about it) with a project on living happy for a year.
She devises a plan for happiness, reading all sorts of books on happiness, from a wide variety of authors.I would have liked to have been more enthusiastic about the book, but it seems we have the same tired themes (simplify!
Plus, as I get older and social anxiety creeps up like a cheap pair of underwear, the friend making thing takes much more effort.Another month is about leisure and play.
The author is a rich white lady living in the upper east side of manhattan with her two healthy little girls and her (as she described) gorgeous rich husband.
It's when the author had to start interacting with other people that it went quickly downhill.
The entire time she's describing all the emails she had to send for this great act of love, she's passive aggressively telling the reader about how *normally* she'd be so resentful about having to do all of this.
Can you feel the love?Fast forward to the day of the party.
I didn't want to review this book until I tried my own "happiness project" because to be honest I was very sceptical about the results.So, my personal journey to getting back on track to being happier started in the LGA airport in the Hudson News Bookstore.
I wasn't happy because I wasn't making time for the one thing that really makes me happy...writing every day.So, I decided to start my own project.
So, I started a journal where I would write just a sentence every single day, even when I didn't want to, and you know what?
I found myself only reading a bit a day so I could draw it out longer, I didn't want it to end.It's funny that I've reacted to The Happiness Project so strongly too because originally it just sounded like a cute and fun memoir which is something I love to read, but it was so so much more than that.
It's someone sharing their wonderful experience with great insight that is very easy to transfer to your own life.The Happiness Project is an achievement by the author and I would strongly suggest this book to everyone.
If you don't mind the constant references to her clerking for Supreme Court Justice O'Connor and her monied life and the mundane attempts at her "happiness project" you might be ok.
Don't snipe at your spouse over stupid things for one whole month and you will feel happier.I realize she comes from a monied background and that doesn't influence my take at all.
The book was shallow and just another version of I'm unhappy, it hit me one day, so I called my hubby outside his office and told him to look down at me while I waved because it made me happy type blog.
This is not great literature.
This is not earth-shattering or mind blowing in any way.
Yet somehow, underneath the veneer of light-hearted entertainment, this sneaky little book is filled with profound truths.It is also filled with extremely interesting bits of psychology and sociology research that are sprinkled throughout its pages, mixed with her personal journey and constantly evolving considerations.
A study in self-empowerment if I've ever seen one.A witty, self-examined life which bristles with good ideas and a contagious desire for self-realization that actually ends up radiating a stubborn, beautiful light.Often funny and self-deprecating, Gretchen Rubin made me think about many areas in my life which could use a little boost of "intention", and mindfulness.And just for that, I'll willingly give her 5 stars.
what interesting irony that a book on happiness has so many haters.
Do be warned, though, that Gretchen Rubin is a classic Type A overachiever and this book is organized and written accordingly.
Being a gold star addict myself, I've gladly written my resolution checklist and have it hanging on my wall-- full of happy little pencil marks.
You may not have the time or resources to do all of the things suggested in the book (and which wouldn't likely make YOU happy anyway) but get inspired and what's the worst that can happen?
Our lives are in the space between Isaiah Berlin’s “We are doomed to choose and every choice may entail an irreparable loss” and Borges’s Garden of Forking Paths, where every choice produces a quantum explosion of alternate futures.p. 132 I started a “Happiness Box” in which I’d collect all sorts of little trinkets meant to trigger happy thoughts and memories.p. 153 The “fundamental attribution error” is a psychological phenomenon in which we tend to view other people’s actions as reflections of their characters and to overlook the power of situation to influence their actions, whereas with ourselves, we recognize the pressures of circumstance.p. 156 Another reason not to say critical things about other people: “spontaneous trait transference.” Studies show that people unintentionally transfer to me the traits I ascribe to other people.p. 169 The Epiphany of the Back Spasm.
The most useful part of this book was when the author suggests not continuing to read a book you're not enjoying. I stopped there. Great advice.
I have read quite a few year-long project memoirs, but this is one of the most meaningful to me.Gretchen Rubin decided she wanted to be happier in her life, and, being an organized and thoughtful person, she devised a plan.
Each month she would focus on one area of her life to improve, and by the end of the year, she should be measurably happier.
Focus on those positive behaviors.I first read The Happiness Project several years ago, and since then I have pulled it down from the shelf several times to review a chapter, or to draw inspiration from Rubin's enthusiasm.
3.5 stars I enjoyed the audio book of The Happiness Project.
I always like when authors narrate their own books, and Gretchen Rubin did a nice job with the audio.
I listened to the book fairly quickly, it only took me 2 days.
On the parts that related to my life, I can give an awesome 4-5 star rating to.
Unfortunately, a lot of the book had to do with parenting and other things (not just ones own happiness) and I found myself completely zoning out.
Still, it was a solid read and there are parts of it that were insightful and I'll take away and use.
All the navel-gazing of "Eat, Pray, Love" with none of the interesting commentary provided by other characters. Gretchen is the only actual being in her world; everyone else, including her husband and children, is merely a mirror reflecting who she thinks she should appear to be. I'm convinced that the author wants to be happy only because someone else told her she should. I'm all for fluff reading, but this took it to a new level. The chapter on cleaning her closets (yes, an entire chapter about closet-cleaning) did me in.
It ensured that she kept practising her new habits, or in Rubin's words "Accessibility to good ideas and practises makes it easier for the subconscious brain to access them." So, a resolution chart is good!Finally, the book ends with an excellent list of books for further reading.I shall end with my usual stack of notes (view spoiler)[JANUARYHappiness:Happiness is a virtuous circle.
Taking the time to be silly means we are infecting one another with good cheer, and people who enjoy silliness are a third more likely to be happy.Benefit of the doubt.We need to cut people slack when they appear rude or impatient.
(The author readily admits to being the type of person who always wants a "gold star" for her efforts.) She strikes me as the type of person who plays everything by the book - from graduating from Yale law school to clerking for Justice O'Connor, so it makes sense that she would tackle happiness as just another project to be ticked off the list and approach it from the chart-making, resolution-keeping perspective.
You are the first person in history to both discover the meaning of happiness and achieve it.
This book was just the inspiration to want to change my situation and bring about more happiness into my life.
I didn't always agree with some of her conclusions with her own resolutions but I appreciated the research she did and that it was HER happiness project with HER own results.I'm always skeptical of "self help" type things or 25 ways to happiness deals.
She is extremely gracious and incredibly enthusiastic about inspiring and motivating other people to their own elevated happiness.I'd definitely recommend this book if you are finding yourself increasingly unhappy..or if you are a happy person wondering if you can be happier.
I am a university English professor and I have a masters' degree and yeah, the classics are great but I like what I like,and will continue to recommend it to my students along with Hemingway and Salinger and the Bronte sisters.I do not intend to follow all of Rubin's suggestions.
My Self would rather wake up late on Christmas morning to find that the husband and kids got up early and decorated the tree.I highly recommend this book.
Totally want to start my Happiness Project.
Being a writer, she decided to research the origins, psychology and elements of happiness and develop her own Happiness Project, a 12-month experiment (each month around a theme like "love", "work" "energy", etc) with carefully measured goals and resolutions to see if she could be a happier person, better wife, better mother, better woman.
Grow a little!She is quite honest about how this could sound self-absorbed or self-indulgent, but she disagrees in general and believes (backing that up with research) that happier people are more productive, more generous, more thoughtful, etc.
I'm definitely intrigued and inspired to plan my own Happiness Project.
“Pierre Reverdy wrote: “There is no love; there are only proofs of love.””Gretchen Rubin`s The Happiness Project: Or Why I Spent a Year Trying to Sing in the Morning, Clean My Closets, Fight Right, Read Aristotle, and Generally Have More Fun is good with some practical points and realistic advice. This book will be more useful if read as a Self-help book, and not a memoir. If you are willing to take the blame, people will give you responsibilities.It is easy to be heavy, hard to be light. Do goo
“Pierre Reverdy wrote: “There is no love; there are only proofs of love.””Gretchen Rubin`s The Happiness Project: Or Why I Spent a Year Trying to Sing in the Morning, Clean My Closets, Fight Right, Read Aristotle, and Generally Have More Fun is good with some practical points and realistic advice. This book will be more useful if read as a Self-help book, and not a memoir. If you are willing to take the blame, people will give you responsibilities.It is easy to be heavy, hard to be light.
  Do good, feel good ; feel good, do good.
I used to pride myself on finishing every book I started -- no longer."Using the author's own words, that pretty much sums up how I felt about reading this book...although I didn't stop.
I felt the author contradicted herself continually throughout the book, used references to support her opinions (NOT research) while ignoring those that she didn't agree with, all to make a point...
well, that really didn't have a point.Yes, I'd like to be happier in my life.
Instead, I would go so far as to say that this book likely made my life a little less happy because I don't find reading someone's grumbling and whining (all under the guise of "maximizing happiness") to be particularly uplifting.
Her husband doesn't understand why she wants to be happier because she seems happy to him but it becomes clear before long, as she describes many insufferable habits and traits of her own, that she's not really happy.So, instead of digging deep, getting at the root of her issues, she makes monthly theme resolutions, travelling the surface streets of why she's obnoxious, putting a superficial band-aid on her flaws.
At the start, I was very enthusiastic to read this book but by the time I got halfway through, I was still waiting for the "Eureka!" moment where it all seemed worthwhile. It was mostly skippable and some parts were just frustrating (starting a collection for the sake of starting a collection? Plugging in birthdays of friends? A bit hollow...).I suppose I was expecting a more memoir approach and it seemed more self-help manual than anything else. Dull.
Mới những trang dầu đã không thấy thích rồi, nhưng vì đang tìm hiểu các sách viết về hạnh phúc để tìm tư liệu cho quyển sách thứ 3 và phát triển triết lý hạnh phúc nên ráng đọc hết, sợ bỏ lỡ một chi tiết nào quan trọng chăng, và đọc để coi nó dở đến mức nào, và dù sao nó cũng là bestseller mà, nên kiên nhẫn.
The premise of The Happiness Project was admirable, but I never really felt like the author was really making any strides in truly becoming a happier person through her methodology.
When all was said and done, it seemed to me that it was much more about having a subject to write a book about than about a quest to become a happier person.
I ended up appreciating Rubin and her happiness quest as I went along.
One reason is that Rubin seems endearingly honest - ready to admit her flaws and quirks and even embrace them.
She is a former lawyer and current writer who adores research, reading and note-taking, and decided to apply those skills to a project meant to help her recognize and increase the happiness in her life.
Probably the biggest message that came out of her project was "Be Gretchen." Of course, for me it would be, "Be Lisa".
It sounds simplistic, but the story of Rubin's journey and hard-earned revelations is surprisingly inspiring and a fun read, too.
The book is dense (in the best possible way) with philosophy, experience and advice.What I appreciated most is that her approach is not about undertaking extreme actions to try to achieve happiness, but about finding contentment in the life you already have by adding or tweaking small habits – everything from keeping a one-sentence gratitude journal to organizing your closet.
For the better part of my life I feel that I’ve leaned towards the glass half full-look at the bright side-I’d like to teach the world to sing-make lemonade-happy happy joy joy side of things.Reading this book made me feel doomed.
This book didn’t do that but it did feel a little preachy.However… and here is where I am not liking myself and feeling sort of hypocritical and Debbie downerish….I’m not sure that she quite… she doesn’t… It’s not… Ugh. Okay.1.
I'm only reading this because our book club picked it for our 'non-fiction' month ---I'm bored stiff--but I'll finish it. (we read non-fiction every other month) Most of the time we choose better books to read.I have now finished this book....and I was wrong! I laughed --smiled ---and have respect for the author for the difference she is making with "The Happiness Project".
This book annoyed me in the same way that "Eat, Pray, Love" annoyed me. I mean, a wealthy woman, with a nanny to boot, spends a year trying things like "de-cluttering the closet" and "organizing files" and then emerges with helpful tips like "de-clutter your closet" and "organize your files."She also helpfully mentions that you should be nice to your spouse.Spare me.
