https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/170808.Guests_of_the_Sheik
Though the subtitle is "An Ethnography," I was pleasantly surprised to find this book didn't read at all like the dry, clinical anthropological commentaries I've read elsewhere.
She lives and eats and works as the women of the village do -- in full hijab -- almost entirely secluded from her husband.
I was expecting some sort of pitiable account of destitute Iraqi villagers, the author's Western prejudices lacing the narrative with heavy handed derision, scorn, or regret for the poor women.
What I got was pleasantly, surprisingly different: the book was simple, easily read, but compelling.
She strictly followed their customs of gender segregation and always covered herself with the veil that left only her face clear anytime she left her tiny two-room mud house and always with a male chaperone at her side.The shiite women in the village felt pity for Fernea because she had no children, no mother for companionship and worst of all, she had no gold of her own.
One aspect I found fascinating about this book is the striking contrast between Ferne’s reactions to living in a rural Shiite village in Iraq (1956-1957) compared to Sayyid Qutb’s, the father of radical Islam's, reaction to his two-year stay in the US (1948-1950).
In the early 1950s, when Elizabeth Fernea was a young bride, she joined her researcher husband as he journeyed to a remote tribal village in Iraq, to live and study for nearly two years.
As a Western woman, Elizabeth chose to integrate herself into tribal society by donning the traditional abayah (the long black cloak/veil), avoiding being seen by unfamiliar men.Her time in the village is so full of learning, misunderstandings and bizarre experiences.
I'd be interested in reading a follow up - to find out how women in this same part of Iraqi are faring today, nearly 60 years later.Thank heavens for the "cast of characters" chart at the beginning!
I could tell my friends in America again and again that the veiling and seclusion of Eastern women did not mean necessarily that they were forced against their will to lie lives of submission and near-serfdom.
Neither would have understood, for each group, in its turn, was bound by custom and background to misinterpret appearances in its own way."I will say that there were a few times in reading this book that I wondered if she was being absolutely truthful, but I guess truth is subjective and with 2 years written into 331 pages a lot gets left out.
Elizabeth Warnock Fernea traveled and lived in a small Iraqi village for two years with her anthropologist husband in the late 1950's.
However, once one begins to read deeper into the book, it is apparent that Fernea was ahead of her time, as she helps the western reader understand the culture,history, and traditions of this Iraqi village in the 1950's.
The women of the village, with their strong ties and supportive networks, felt sorry for the American woman who lived among them with no mother or children.
They take in Fernea and befriend her, which opens the door for understanding that this novel presents.
It was nice to finally read a book about life behind the veil that wasn't depressing!
I had to read this book for an Anthropology class I'm taking and was very happy with what I gleaned from it!
The veil was in no way portrayed in a negative, oppressive light.
But in this little village, an American woman gained appreciation for not only the veil, but for the culture and women who she slowly grew to love.
It made me see why Americans have a certain stigma to these middle eastern cultures.
This was a required reading book for an introductory anthropology class that I took. It is probably one of my favourite books that I have ever acquired this way. In fact, it was so well-written that until almost halfway through the book, I didn't even notice that the story was 50 years old. I was a little deflated at the end when the story just suddenly came to an end, and I had to remind myself that it was an ethnography, a record of this one particular year, and not a novel.
I became attached to many of the people in this book, and when she and her husband left the village, I felt I too was saying goodbye to good friends.
They did not see their husbands as friends and companions as is the case in the western marriage, and they rarely saw them outside the bedroom.
They spent pretty much all their waking hours in community with their female friends and family members, and it was these relationships which provided the sustenance, support and comfort for the their otherwise rather harsh lifestyles.
I also very much admire their sense of community, hospitality, and care of elders - values rather foreign to western societies.
For some reason, perhaps the modern looking cover, I expected Guests of the Sheik to be a current ethnography, but it became evident very quickly that this narrative of life in an Iraqi village was published a long while back (in 1965 to be exact).
It is an easy read and gives an interesting picture of village life in a rural Shiite community where there was no social communication between men and women, if only through the eyes of an American woman who has some questionably problematic things to say.
When he came home for Christmas vacation last year, my son (majoring in Middle Eastern Studies) gave each of the women in his life (siblings & mom) this book to read, and set an appointment for us to take some time to discuss before he went back to school. It's the story of a young American woman's first two years of married life living in a tribal settlement on the edge of a village in southern Iraq. It's non fiction, but very readable. A great window into Iraqi culture and history.
An excellent (perhaps out-of-print) book about an Arab sheikh and his clan in southern Iraq. Written in the seventies by the wife of an American anthropologist, who went on to become an outstanding enthnographer in her own right, this remains one of the best inside accounts of authentic Iraqi family life and culture. Well worth hunting down.
Bowden, also author of  Black Hawk Down  provides excellent context on the US-Iranian relations twenty-five years prior to this incident, the factions competing for power within Iran at the time, details on the behind-the-scenes negotiations to release the hostages, mecahnisms the hostages employed to survive the ordeal, the role the press played, how American citizens developed ways individually and collectively to support the hostages, how this incident changed the trajectory of Iranian history, and how Iranians today view those 444 days.
A thoroughly absorbing, well-written novel.
Fernea handled herself with grace and humility and was quickly befriended by the women of El Nahra.The descriptive narrative left me feeling, hearing, seeing and smelling the sites and sounds of El Nahra.
I felt as though I knew well, the women Elizabeth had made friends with.I was very interested in learning the words in Arabic and enjoyed looking them up in the glossary at the back of the book.This was an excellent, excellent story that I plan on sharing with a friend.
There is a great dramatic irony present when reading this book now.
The lovely, stable way of life that they maintained may have been deeply flawed from our Western point of view, but no one can deny it is is better than the chaos and hardship that has replaced it.
As the back cover says, this ethnography is exceptionally well written and is an eye-opening account for anyone who has been watching CNN et al for years without ever getting a true glimpse as to the actual fabric of traditional Iraqi society.
I think of it as my second wake up call to the reality of life in a Muslim culture and environment.
One of the parts that affected me the most and still creates a lot of my weltanschung of Muslim culture was a discussion about how in places like America aging parents are often put in nursing homes, a fact that was extremely shocking to the women.
I didn't/don't find the concept of a nursing home terrible, but I can see why another culture could find that repulsive.
The scene in the book is still one of the biggest lessons I've had on cultural relativism.
Elizabeth and her husband Bob move to an Iraqi village, soon after they are married so that Bob can do some research for his Doctorate.
They have been invited to live in the compound of the local Sheik in El-Nahra.
Although they will be living in a small guest house, most of their time will be spent separated during the day; Bob with the men, Elizabeth with the women.
The Sheik's family live in the strict Shiite way.
This is basically Elizabeth's memoir of their time in the village, but I would have loved to have heard more of Bob's side.
I think this book is great, most of the time the author maintains a culturally relative perspective.
Its great that a woman was able to write it.
Many of the traditions and values of the Iraqis in the small village are portrayed adequately, however this novel is an ethnography so it depicts things through one persons view.
And the religious aspects of it our very vivid.
I enjoyed this book a lot and think its worth reading.
You will learn a lot about the culture.
Not every culture is the same, so be sure to remember that there is no right way to anything.
I still have it, and still remember it--which speaks well for it!While the world described in these pages has now passed into history, it's worth reading both to understand the possibilities of a different cultural structure and to understand the lifestyle of a previous generation, now remembered wistfully by so many people in the modern Middle East.
How can we hope to understand what the most frustrated of the people there want, if we don't understand the cultural memory of what they want to restore, or the foundations through which they were shaped?
This book was assigned reading for one of my women's studies courses in college.
I loved it.
The author's husband is in Iraq on business, and she spends the time there living with the women and learning about the differences (and similarities) of their cultures.
She is great at reserving judgment.
It made a strong impression on me then, during the first Gulf War. I'd love to re-read it....
and would have done so, but my mom never returned this book when I loaned it to her in the '90s.
I thought this was a very readable account of an American woman's two year stay in an Iraqi village in the mid-1950s.
Of course, much of what she described is probably very dated now, but I thought the author did a fairly good job of providing a glimpse into the life and culture of women in the village at that time.
Admittedly, I have not read many personal accounts of this kind so my basis for comparison is fairly limited.
Still, I enjoyed it and thought it well worth a read!
I'm now reading this for about the third time...began as a syllabus item in 1993 for a Interdisciplinary Studies: Middle East class at MSU. Its copyright is 196x, one year before the Iraqi revolution. An American woman travels with her newlywed husband to a remove village where he, as an anthropologist, is studying. Due to strict gender divisions, she is able to provide insight for him into the women's world of both the harem and the common peasant.Great read!OK, May 2010, just finished it AGAIN, and the conclusion is even more profound than I remember it. Still love it.
I read this strictly to help me get ready to edit some of our Iraq war coverage, wanting something personal about the Iraqi people. This was a mesmerizing account of a woman who married an American anthropologist and ended up living among women in southern Iraq for a couple years. Her tales of the initial contempt and suspicion they had toward her, and then the way she was embraced and the lives she learned about among these sheltered and tribal women, were vivid and seemed as though they could have been written about last week.
I knew I would enjoy this book, but I hadn’t anticipated how emotionally invested in it I would become.
The author brought this village to life for me, and not only did I have concern for her, but I grew to care for the women in the village of El Nahra almost as much as she did.
Elizabeth was in the unique and rare position to be a part of a much misunderstood culture, and her gift to the world is giving a voice to their vibrant culture.
I laughed and cried, and ultimately I feel enriched for having read this book.
Absolutely fascinating.
It was in the 50's but gave a realistic feeling of how it is to live in a harem and how the women and men actually thought.
This is what struck me most as telling of the culture difference.
Her women friends felt sorry for her because she didn't have her mother with her and had no children.
She thought of herself as an educated American woman on a grand adventure with lots of advantages.
They had no concept of companionship between a husband and wife.
The fathers loved their daughters.
It was so different than I had imagined.
Bought at Powell's in June. Started 7/5/08 finished 7/13/08. I read most of this while in SD for Grandma Schuldt's funeral. I liked this book for the honest light it cast on the lives of women in Iraq 50 years ago. I wonder if anything has changed since this was written? It takes place in a small, secluded village outside of Baghdad. The most interesting thing was the realization by the author that her relationship w/her husband, the typical American marriage, appears to Iraqi women as one of loneliness.
Imagine getting married in 1957 and going immediately to a third-world country. Imagine living for those first two years of your marriage in a mud hut with two (non-connecting) rooms. Now imagine you're the wife and the place is southern Iraq - so you're wearing an abeyah and can speak only to women. Elizabeth Furnea, in her understated way makes this story of small town life a compelling and sympathetic human drama. This should be required reading for anyone spouting beliefs about muslims or Iraqis. It's a small story, true, and poignant.
It describes in great detail the lives and sometime desperations of women of Iraq in the 1950s.
After reading this book, I have come to realize that the gap in basic human understanding between the West and some parts of the middle east are so vast, that it may take centuries for any kind of understanding to really happen.
This realization came to me towards the end of the book, when they went to a western "club" in Baghdad and when the Sheik saw that women were dancing with men, he was appalled and thought them all to be prostitutes.
Truly enlightening book.
This ethnography was required reading for an Intro to Anthro class. It is a lovely intimate portrayal of rural communal life in Iraq, and by the semester that I read it the U.S. had already begun the unjustified war in Iraq, which made it all the more poignant. I felt like I knew people over there who were being blown away as "collateral damage," and it was devastating. And that is the beauty of ethnography--its ability to show us what is universal in the human experience, despite all our differences, to make human connections across cultures.
I read this book for the second time and enjoyed it just as much. I love the frank depiction of life in an Iraqi village through the eyes of a Western woman. So many historical autobiographical accounts are from a man's viewpoint, since only males were allowed to mix in the village life. And, while some of her experiences and views seem too circumscribed to be palatable to the modern reader, it is a glimpse into how things were 60 years ago. Very interesting!
Elizabeth is an anthrpolologist, she and her husband live in a remote village outside of Iraq over a year. Its a very conservative shiite village and woman are completely covered, rarely leave the house without permission and only to visit other women in the village or to attend festivals. She lives as they live and so lets the reader in on the secret mysterious lives of these Muslim women. Its a very interesting book. I loved it and it was an easy read.
