https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64931.The_Ophiuchi_Hotline
Just in the nick of time , she's rescued by the Free Earthers, they substitute Lilo with her clone, in the bleak death house.
Lilo sent there, wants to leave the depressing place quickly , and with the help of her new, good friends, somehow sends this satellite at the near speed of light towards Alpha Centauri, the nearest star to our Sun. Maybe Calypso will see her two wandering sisters there...if alive .
"Good Aliens" , the Ophiuchi Hotline, has sent four hundred years of messages from distant, remote space , helping mankind's technology progress rapidly.
If the intrigue to Free Earth hadn't been enough, there was the whole business about the message being transmitted just outside of the reach of the inner system, the one letting us know that the bill has come due for the instantaneous communication technology we'd been using for the last five hundred years.Ooops.I guess it's time to figure out if humanity is doomed two times over!Maybe it sounds like a joke, but it's hardly anything like a joke.
It explores time, memory, and even the social aspects of what alien races might think or do and how they could relate to any other species.I'm tempted to rank it right up there on the same level as Cixin Liu's latest English-translated trilogy starting with Three Body Problem and ending with Death's End, and I haven't even read Varley's subsequent novels.
Weird book.
Opiuchi Hotline by John Varley, the author of the Gaian trilogy, is about… a lot of stuff – and all rolled up into a hard sci-fi, Bradburyan fantasy mix.
I guess if I had to break it down and slap a label on it, I would say this is a first contact story, though a very original one.
This is a difficult book to review, it was kind of hard to follow, and yet, strangely compelling, like Dane Cook narrating a children’s book: contextually OK, but edgy and not just a little disconcerting.
Hotline exhibits bioengineering and manipulation, cosmetic sex changes, overlapping multi-level cloning with memory recording and nanotechnology.
When we meet her she is in a prison cell awaiting execution by singularity – she is to be tossed into a tiny black hole, and every computer record of her mind, and clone of her body (for these are common in this era) is under sentence of death too.This is a fast-paced story that follows multiple versions of the same person, across different worlds and even different timelines as Lilo, the companions she encounters, and the human race as a whole come to realise exactly what they are up against, what the future holds for the human race and how crowded and unfriendly a place our galaxy can be.I know what you’re thinking: this sounds like yet another story where plucky humanity fights off a vastly more advanced invader with grit, luck and the odd deus ex machina- the same trope we’ve seen in novels as far back as The War of The Worlds and in modern TV series like Falling Skies.
This is a fantastic story and I am surprised I have not heard more about this as I beleive it has all the makings of a CLASSIC SF novel.
This is the first novel set in Varley's "Eight World" universe and is full of very interesting, and I imagine at the time, original concepts.
Just a few of these include: - The ability to back-up via computer a person's personality at any time and to "download" it into a clone of such individual (a strong parallel can be found in Richard K.
- The Ophiuchi Hotline itself and the back story behind it, which I will not spoil for those who have not read it.
92 of 180 of this compact and amazingly good first novel, and very pleased with how the book is holding up.
Jo Walton, as always, has astute commentary on both author & works: https://www.tor.com/2010/03/12/john-v...My 2002 comments:This was Varley's first novel (published 1977) , and it is *amazingly* good.
FWIW, Hotline [has been] on my personal Top Ten SF Novels list, though I'll cheerfully admit I've never read it critically (nor do I plan to!).I don't think quite as highly of the book now (2016), but if you've never read it, you should.
Still his best novel, I think.
It's taking me forever, I have no idea what's going on and am beginning to think this is more a thought experiment in how many ways sex and clones can be used in mundane ways than anything like a story.While I was initially intrigued at a society with completely flipped morals to ours, and a sort of normalization of trans or non-binary life, it became clear that this wasn't actually assumed fully into the story.
John Varley is a writer with enormous reserves of imagination, and this book pulses with a gonzo energy as he throws in to the mix a bunch of fun and varied and original ideas. In a manner that’s similar to the inventive classic Babel-17, the plot doesn’t always live up to the exciting ideas and vivid characters and the colorful dynamics coursing through its pages, but this book was always thoroughly enjoyable and provocative, and I definitely want to read more of his work.

The humanity was helped a great deal by info streaming from the direction of Ophiuchi 70, the star 17 light years from the Solar system.
The reason why this info was supplied has never occurred to the mankind, which grabbed this free lunch while it can.Some five centuries passed after the invasion.
There will be clones, asteroids, aliens, black holes and adventures in abundance.There are a lot of allusions (intentional or not) to many classic SF, like invasive holo-ads (see Podkayne of Mars), or 4D representation of human (see Slaughterhouse-Five).
A very interesting author, recommended.
I recently read Varley's short story "Press Enter" and liked it enough to try a novel of his.
But where his short story was a sort of ominous, slow-building cyber horror and character exploration, The Ophiuchi Hotline is a space adventure/space opera, and think by now I've established that I'm simply not into that.
There were minor things that annoyed me, but would have annoyed me in any kind of novel, and objectively I'm impressed that it didn't sound anachronistic at all (unlike, "Press Enter", which has the 80s written all over it).In any regard I don't mean to dissuade people from reading it.
What an excellent book to be written as a first novel! Not only is the story well-plotted and written, but the cloning theme raises serious questions about what we understand as individuality. It has not been often that a novel has caused me to pause, repeatedly, for reflection. I read this outside during warm summer days in the quadrangle of Union Theological Seminary in New York City.
I have been getting into science-fiction a lot more recently and think that I read this novel at the perfect time.I will say, first of all, that this book is extremely confusing at points.
That being said, I would say that if you are uncomfortable with sex scenes this may not be the book for you, but I think that they were relevant to the story and as they were not a big deal to the characters, likewise to the reader.
Overall I would highly recommend this book if you are interested in science fiction of any kind.
This book starts out *wonderfully*, and I love the premise of the book. Generations ago, humanity was cast out of Earth by Invaders who are so much smarter and more powerful, they actually operate on a completely different plain. A tinkerer of genetic structures gets caught, condemned to death, and rescued by various factions of humanity. It follows her story, although along the way she gets killed and cloned a half dozen times. A cool look at identity, and I definitely loved the world Varley created.
I tend to round up with stars...I like debut novels as much as I do debut films made by first time script writer / directors.
There is either a certain charm to them or other times it is an urgent desperation.
The charming ones tend to be simple straight forward if not a bit quaint or quirky.
The desperate ones tend to be crammed packed with a multitude of ideas and scene and issues and are filmed in various stylistic manners...
Varley, as his fans surely know, is a top notch author.
Un libro correcto pero sin destacar. Tiene alguna idea de fondo que no está mal, pero no las desarrolla lo suficiente para mi gusto.
Evidement, il ne lui arrivera pas que ça.Et je n'en dirai pas plus sur l'intrigue parce que même si elle est intéressante, elle n'est pas l'intérêt esssentiel de ce roman.Non, ce qui est intéressant, ce sont les voyages que fera Lilo à travers ce système solaire qui n'est plus vraiment aux mains de l'humanité.
Et en ces quelques phrases, toute la science-fiction apparaît.C'est ça à mon avis, ainsi que le voyage à travers les merveilles de ce système solaire, qui m'a fait apprrécier ce roman.Enfin, ça, et aussi la multiplication des points de vue de Lilo qu'on pourrait quasiment voir comme des "et si" : et si elle s'évadait, et si elle était détournée de son évasion.
In the year 2050, invaders from another galaxy enter our solar system and take over Jupiter and Earth.
Humans that have already begun populating the moon and the eight other planets the invaders leave to their own resources.
Even though most of the information is unintelligible, mankind now has sophisticated technologies such as cloning, advanced space travel, and these really nifty suits that fit you like a skintight mirror and allow you to exist for thirty hours in a vacuum.Lilo is a geneticist condemned to death for unlicensed experimentation.
Storyline: 3/5Characters: 2/5Writing Style: 3/5World: 5/5This was a work full to the brim with ideas.
Later authors like Kim Stanley Robinson would work similarly, although turning those passing ideas and brief mentions into pages long infodumps and laborious expositions.
Varley never bores us with an infodump and doesn't let you get deeply intertwined enough with any of the ideas to generate complaints of their not being developed.
The author generally had a good grasp on the story, most of the pieces fit, the technologies impressed, the characters went places and did their adventuring.
The technologies were worth contemplating, but they mainly served to move the story along.
Lilo-Alexandr-Calypso cometió uno de los peores crímenes posibles en esta época del futuro, la alteración de material genético fuera de los límites legales, por lo que está condenada a la muerte definitiva.
Trabajo que hace parte de la Trilogía de los Ocho Mundos.
Esta edición incluye también la novela corta “La persistencia dela visión”, de la que ya hemos hablado en el blog.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
Can't belive this is the first Varley work I've read. Surprisingly fresh and relevant, considering its age. I found it to be an interesting way of affirming the value of the human spirit through a host of adverse circumstances. Some fascinating characters in extraordinary scenarios.
Wild, pioneering sci-fi ideas. Reminds me of a Reynold's hard sci fi approach, but Varley wrote this in the 70ies and that's just something
Hace ya algunos años reseñé en este espacio la novela “Playa de acero”, un estupendo mamotreto de ciencia ficción escrito por John Varley, la segunda parte de una trilogía sobre “ocho mundos” cuya novela inicial fue “Y mañana serán clones”.
4.5 Stars - highly recommended.John Varley's first Novel (from 1977) and in my opinion far better th
Aside from that, the books could hardly be more different.Simak's book is a post-apocalyptic tale of tribal humans taking their first steps toward rediscovering society and technology.
Varley's story is of humanity scattered throughout the solar system, mostly denied one planet but saturating all the rest.
Humanity has cloning and braintaping, and while it is illegal to exist in multiple incarnations at once, these characters live on the underside of society where such things are practically commonplace.
This is the kind of science fiction book I enjoy reading: it's about half a dozen different things that somehow all fit together, it contains a bunch of scientific extrapolation (from a mid-1970s perspective), and the plot is pretty ingeniously worked out...and all that in only 180 pages.
To get his story told (and to enable the readers to have multiple viewpoints on the action all at the same time) Varley uses the device of clones that are endowed with "taped" consciousness of their "original." Although this isn't exactly groundbreaking thinking about the possibilities of cloning, it is a rather ingenious solution to a plotting problem: clones in the service of science fiction literature.
Audiobook-- which does not play well with Varley's somewhat long winded writing style. I nearly gave up about half way through as Varley gives little reason to care about the fate of one of many clones. This book is definitely a sort of guided tour of his clever world building, and moves along mostly by deus es machina. The world building is very clever if you don't mind the ineffectualizing of the human race.
Great story and innovative style. We follow the heroine through-out the book, but as she is a clone she lives in many differerent places and times and consequently meets with a variety of fates.Head twist.
Totally awesome, landmark book in my science fiction reading career!
Excellent science fiction. Loved it.
