https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12543.Bird_by_Bird
That could explain its popularity; it seems like the kind of writing-advice book that will be invariably set as a mandatory read in an MFA program.
And that, in turn, could explain why a certain type of writer will, if asked to give writing advice, sound exactly like Anne Lamott.Maybe that's the problem: familiarity.
Perhaps it's just because they're both called Anne.There were moments when I was moved and made to think about writing, so maybe one day I'll read Bird by Bird again and see if I can revise this first impression.
There is nothing to writing. All you do is sit down at a typewriter and bleed. - Ernest HemingwayOne writer I know tells me that he sits down every morning and says to himself nicely, “It’s not like you don’t have a choice, because you do—you can either type or kill yourself.” - Ann LamottI have not always felt much like writing. My writer’s block, if that is what it was, and not merely the tardy development of some creative muscles, occupied a large portion of my youth. Writing papers for scho
There are many ways to transport the inner to the outer and writing may not offer the right means for most.
But, as you are reading this, I expect there is a good chance you like to write, and maybe want to kick it up a notch.
If, howver, you are a writer, aspire to be a writer, or indulge in analysis of writing, Bird by Bird will feel like a kindly mentor, an older, wiser sibling maybe, who can take you by the hand and offer a gentle nudge in the right direction.
I actually found myself underlining things that Anne Lamott wrote and thinking, "I need to reread this so that I can absorb its message better."Perhaps the one thing that I'd like to pass along from her book that I wholeheartedly believe is her assertion that novels should have hope in them.
I really don't have any more time to waste on stories that make me feel depressed and dark at the end.Ms.Lamott also talks about writing as a spiritual activity and that I also believe in.
Ugh. I used to write and then I took some time away from it, and someone suggested this book to me to inspire me. It did exactly the opposite. Lamott makes writing sound like passing a kidney stone, and it doesn't have to be that way.
I love that she doesn’t shy away from the dark stuff, all the shitty feelings, angry rants, and suicidal episodes. I also love that she's funny. Not just amusing, but actually funny. I love that she curses. I love that she can be (and seems to enjoy being) spiteful and sarcastic. I love her and wish I could call her up when I'm feeling miserable. Luckily, I have this book.
Not new-agey, hippie-esque or nearly as self-help guide-like as I feared it would be when I started listening to the audiobook version as read by its author.
Anne Lamott's monotone voice set off the "OH NO!
SHE'S TRYING TO HYPNOTIZE ME!" alarms in my head, while her occasional allusions to faith had me ready with my own form of holy water (urine) to dash upon any self-righteous pulpits.
However, Lamott is more grounded than that, and her dry delivery provides the perfect vehicle for her Tina Fey-styled, kooky sense of humor.
I recommend this book to everyone, writer or not. It is Anne's most classic, I think. You will laugh and maybe even cry.I pull it off the shelf now and then and read whatever page I land on -- and always find my way back to my own writing.
It's a given that each should sound different, look different, and have different backgrounds and mannerisms-but this simple advice hit home b/c I thought, "if I didn't write-he said/she said-after this quote, would they know it was from this character?"Also, ABDCE, for Action, Background, Development, Climax, and Ending.
And...ok-(I love so many things about this book!)-the advice on having someone read your first drafts was really good-it helps to know if you're on the right path.
Letting images, and ideas, and smells run like water."I'm laughed at the beginning writer things-the writing about yourself, and making yourself the main character and trying to throw EVERYTHING in your first book, short story, whatever.
After so many books about how fun and easy writing can be, it's great to have a book that shows how painful and difficult it really is.
Lamott puts a premium on discipline, the discipline of writing every day at a set time and trying hard to get the first draft out, no matter how bad it may be.
This message may not be news to most, but along with the added info that neurosis and writing go hand in hand, Lamott is not here to inform, she's here to encourage.
Pick it up when you're feeling down (about writing.)
I read this to try to understand and learn the craft of writing.
Here’s a few other things I learned, which I’m sure I’ll have to go back to again and again:•	Write every day.
When you’re conscious and writing from a place of insight and simplicity and real caring about the truth, you have the ability to throw the lights on for the reader.
Be afraid of not getting your writing done.
So you must risk placing real emotion at the center of your work.
Write straight into the emotional center of things.
Tell the truth as you understand it.
A surprisingly hysterical book about writing and, as the title implies, life.
The hype surrounding Lamott's book is definitely well-earned and I can't wait to read more of her work.
Much of her advice on writing is practical and no-nonsense as she addresses the difficulties of writing and getting published.
If I had one complaint it would be that I wasn't as inspired to write by the end of the book as I was to be Anne's (see?
I often laughed out loud, not something I was expecting during chapters about libel, editing, publishing, and the other mundane parts of the writer's world.
You've probably read in other books some version of the optimism, pointers and warnings that are covered here.
Yet, you've probably not read one as practical or as well-written as this.
Anne Lamott's book is a virtuosic "Best of" LP, for writers and other creative artists, from which one may choose among many tracks of anecdotes, experience and hope.
It's something you can pull out from time to time to put you on the right track, get you unstuck and, in all cases, on to conjuring magic from your imagination onto the blank screen or sheet of paper sitting in front of you.I highly recommend this book.
Stephen King's On Writing impressed me, but Anne Lamott's book had me tearing up and laughing at the same time.
If I could, I would throw this book at every student at my college studying English or Creative Writing.
Lamott tackles topics ranging from the neurotic mentality of writing to the woes and joys of publishing; I would recommend Bird by Bird to literally everyone, especially to those who possess even a remote interest in the writing life.
They show us what community and friendship mean; they show us how to live and die.""Perfectionism is the voice of the oppressor, the enemy of the people.
She didn't give the reader the inspiration to go out and achieve the greatest thing possible in their writing lives, but instead said basically "it's okay to suck, and you shouldn't worry about never getting better." Maybe that's a message some people need to hear, but for me, it didn't do it.
Her actual writing advice centered around one uniquely-stated idea, her acceptance of "sh*tty first drafts." These first drafts are very important, and I often see them as getting the clay down on the counter in order to begin the real molding of the story.
Bird By Bird is less a book about writing techniques and more a writer speaking to other writers and telling them that it's okay.
There is some good advice in there about how to start writing a scene you don't know about, how to let your characters develop, how to deal with criticism, how to pull ideas out of the melting pot that is memory.
There's a piece of advice that I just love and might have to try some day: write a book for your favourite author.
It may not teach you anything beyond it's okay, and you might find that even that you know, but her writing is lovely and worth reading anyway.
You wait and watch and work; you don’t give up.”•	“John Gardner wrote that the writer is creating a dream into which he or she invites the reader, and that the dream must be vivid and continuous.”Lamott’s strongest warning is against the siren call of publishing: “I tell you, if what you have in mind is fame and fortune, publication is going to drive you crazy.” Writing must be its own reward, so fulfilling that it doesn’t matter what kind of reviews or advances you get.
Anne Lamott has made me finally feel like it is all going to be okay!This is less of an instructional guide to the craft of writing and more of an extended pep-talk about living life creatively.
This book will not necessarily guide you in how to create stellar characters or how to merge your sub-plot with your main plot-line, but it will aid you in going into your writing endeavors with a more sound mind and a better expectation of what the creative process holds.
This book offered an interesting perspective on life and writing fiction.
She was preaching to the converted, however; didn't really open my eyes to anything I wouldn't expect/already know.
I happen to think jealousy is the ugliest human emotion.
Kudos to her for shamelessly admitting to her shortcomings, but I honestly wanted to close the book during this chapter.
I'm glad I toughed it out though because it was decent well-laid out writing advice, nonetheless.
She seems quite smug with her writing and tries to pass it off as humble.
But I admire her ballsiness in teaching what she knows best.
This is an enjoyable read and a lovely book. Anne Lamott is a very engaging writer and she is very funny, honest, and heartfelt. Although I don’t desire to be a writer, like most readers I’ve wanted to be a writer at times in my life. I took to heart her advice that at some point one has to decide whether to be a reader or a writer, a choice I’d made but it solidified my decision for me. The “bird by bird” philosophy espoused in this book can apply to all endeavors, not just the one of writing.
when i finished my undergrad, i received 5 copies of this book.I eventually sold them all for swill.
It is a great book . Works like guideline and a plan for new writers . It is also inspiring. Especially the "last class" chapter . It was a nice chapter from a great book
It really does set out to be instructions on writing and life.
I liked her advice about making incremental progress (the meaning of “bird by bird”), about getting something/anything down that can then be refined in later drafts, and about finding characters, plot, voice, and truth from distinct parts of yourself.
Another bit of advice Lamott offered rang true: readers want to like the storyteller.
Every once in a while it seemed like she had favorite anecdotes she shoehorned into the narrative that didn’t quite fit, but that’s a small quibble.
Nor should you if you’re looking for writing/life instruction of a semi-practical, semi-inspirational sort.
He sent it back with the following note: 'You have made the mistake of thinking that everything that has happened to you is interesting.'"I think so too, Lammott- you have made the mistake of thinking that everything feeling of frustration that you get from your writing experience, is absolutely enlightening, surreal and makes you obviously, a much more authentic writer than everyone else- causing you to write this book and expecting tunnels of praise for it.
I'm so happy she got famous because otherwise, she would probably been dead at least ten years from all those 'writer' activities that she so eagerly partook in (i.e, drinking, self-deprecation, drugs, depression, self loathing, vanity, jealousy etc etc).
Drinking and self deprecation cannot make you a writer.
This book is like a friend to me. Anne Lamott advises and encourages towards writing as a way of life. She helps the reader understand the various aspects of writing and also in introspecting and finding one's own voice. This is a book that I'm gonna read over and over again. I love it.
#mystrangereading bird by bird by Anne Lamott ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐"Perfectionism is the voice of the oppressor, the enemy of the people. It will keep you cramped and insane your whole life, and or is the main obstacle between you and your shitty first draft""One of the things that happens when you give yourself permission to start writing is that you start thinking like a writer"I'm so thankful that my Aunt Robin recommended this book yesterday! How have I missed it? It's such a great encouragement for someone
It will keep you cramped and insane your whole life, and or is the main obstacle between you and your shitty first draft""One of the things that happens when you give yourself permission to start writing is that you start thinking like a writer"I'm so thankful that my Aunt Robin recommended this book yesterday!
It's such a great encouragement for someone who has started playing with writing recently.
It's wonderful and I recommend for anyone who is taking on something new that they haven't tried before.
It doesn't just apply to writing!
It's because of this book, because she is self-deprecating, funny and full of compassionate advice in this book.She still gets on my nerves, though, especially when she starts talking about God--and she mentions God quite a bit--and her church and her priest friends.
We're just from different planets, and sometimes I wonder what life is like on her planet, and I have no earthly idea how to get there, and even if I did, I wouldn't survive.So. I still don't LOVE Anne Lamott, but I like her OK now.
It has practical advice with a lot of examples and metaphors and analogies to help you understand it.
It felt like she was a first-grade teacher trying to teach me my letters.
It seemed like most of the earlier chapters were her usual spiel she would impart in her writing classes.
So maybe she felt like she had to jazz them up somehow, hence all the overwriting.I don't doubt that she's a good writer.
I felt like it was all some variation on: "Get off your fat ass and write.
There was a time when I used to consume books like this in the hope that I might learn to write through osmosis.
What saves this from being just another writing guide is Anne Lamott’s irreverent humour, and self-deprecation.
For the most part, however, it's hard to even quote her, since she takes off on long comedic runs of writing tuition.
The book is pretty well pitched at the beginning writer but there are a few writing fundamentals which are given a unique spin for all.
Lovely funny book that has the potential to make you take the whole business of writing just a little less preciously.
As I am not an aspiring novelist or creative writer of any kind it seems only fair to admit upfront that I might not exactly be Lamott's ideal audience, though I am interested in other forms of writing and hey, the title itself claims that this is as much about "life" as "writing," right?And there were sections and even whole chapters that I will continue to carry with me, that inspired me or made me pause for a moment in consideration or even made me guffaw out loud (no easy feat).
So I have been writing at 8 in the morning, every day, with good results, already, I feel.)***Here are some of my favorite quotes so far:“Think of a fine painter attempting to capture an inner vision, beginning with one corner of the canvas, painting what he thinks should be there, not quite pulling it off, covering it over with white paint, and trying again, each time finding out what his painting isn’t, until finally he finds out what it is.“And when you do find out what one corner of your vision is, you’re off and running.
