https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/836984.Distant_Shores
It was about second chances and a married couple.Well...It was about an ex NFL star that was hungry for attention and his wife,a nice woman that always put him first.When the hero,or as I call him in my mind-the biggest jerk out there-got a new job he decided to move his wife and kids,disrupting their lives so he could be famous again.They agreed to go but a personal tragedy stopped them and so begins the heroes and heroins separation.The women that does follow the hero is his assistant,Sally,a woman half his age.Sally want him.Sally has him.They have sex.He feels sick for having sex with her but still has it,for months.Back home his wife does not cheat,she goes back to her painting,a thing she gave up in order to care about Jack and their kids.Jack decides he loves his wife.Sally is upset.She asks why he is avoiding her.He tells her it's over.She tells him she loves him and that she was the one that went with him,not his wife.He shrugs it off and goes to his wife.Sally is ok with this because she will still have a fab job because he brought her with him.So what do we know this far?
I found the story to be rather cheesy, predictable & left some elements I feel would've made it a stronger story for me.I've really enjoyed Hannah's books.
Plus, I love that the settings are always in the NW.I could get that Elizabeth felt she needed time for herself.
He seemed to be quite a womanizer in his past and really selfish.The thing that I found most disappointing was that at the end, Elizabeth decides to move to NY w/ her husband go back to school.
The red flag went up when Hannah talked about how air travel was down after 9-11, but then went on in the next sentence to set up a scene where the character Birdie met her daughters' airplane at the gate.
(How do editors let these things slip by?)In the notes at the end of the book, Hannah admitted that she wasn't a sports fan and knew little about football.
I like her stories because they are character driven; the plots are all pretty weak.
But I like character driven stories.
But by the end of this book, I didn't know or like the characters any more than I did in the beginning.
He tries to move his kids and the heroine but the heroine won't have it, so he takes his whore of a PA or secretary or whatever bad names you wanna call her.
Anyways, so before he was even separated the PA whore tries to get the hero to have sex with her.
Eventually he does have sex and an affair with her, while his amazing wife is at home, not cheating, taking care of the children, playing mother and father when he should stop his whoring and get off his ass, to take care of his responsibilities.
Uma classificação mais justa seria um 3,5*.
Não sendo, no entanto, o suficiente para as 4*.Se este fosse o primeiro livro que lesse da autora, talvez a classificação fosse diferente.
Mas tendo lido outro, ao qual dei 4 (ou 4,5 não me recordo), este, na minha opinião fica pelas 3.Gostei da estória, e em grande parte revi-me em muita coisa que a autora descreve.O "drama" pessoal que Elizabeth e Jack vivem faz lembrar muitos casais que se esquecem que num casal não podem pensar só neles ou só nos outros.
lame. Don't bother. Not even sure why i finished it. Oh wait, I do know why - I gave myself a goal to read X amount of books before the end of the year and so I finished just because I want to truthfully finish my said amount of books or more. Now if only I could be as truthful with my diet ;)
Once again, Kristin Hannah has failed to disappoint me with her writing.
The "empty next syndrome" forces Elizabeth (the central character of the book) to reexamine her life, her goals, her relationships with friends, her daughters and her marriage.
With her children out the house, and her husband consumed with work, Elizabeth must create new dreams for herself, set goals, and rediscover a talent to paint that she had forgotten so long ago.
Kristin Hannah allows the reader to escape into the pages...
but she also forces the reader to explore your own desires, dreams and forgotten talents & goals.
The more Kristin Hannah books I read, the bigger fan of hers I become. Her books deal with subject matter I think women relate to but always prove better written than the typical chic-lit out there. Her novels keep me engaged the whole way through and I end up caring for her characters. Distant Shores was another great Hannah novel.
Gerçek mutluluk, hayal kırıklıklarından ders almayı öğrenmekte gizlidir.4,5/5⭐⭐⭐⭐Kristin Hannah'dan okumayalı çok uzun zaman oldu. En son romanlarında herkesin söylediği gibi benzer konular işlediğine kendim de şahit olunca okumaya bir ara vermek istedim. En son kütüphaneye gittiğimde rafta hiç okumadığım bir kitabını görünce özlemim ağır basarak hemen ödünç aldım. Açıkçası kitaptan hiçbir beklentim yoktu. Bu sıralar eskisi kadar dram-romantizm tarzı romanlar okuyamadığım için kitaba karşı bir h
Gerçek mutluluk, hayal kırıklıklarından ders almayı öğrenmekte gizlidir.4,5/5⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️Kristin Hannah'dan okumayalı çok uzun zaman oldu.
Bu sıralar eskisi kadar dram-romantizm tarzı romanlar okuyamadığım için kitaba karşı bir heyecanım vardı ama Kristin Hannah'dan fazlasıyla kitap okuduğum için hala beni çok fazla şaşırtabilir mi emin değildim.
Evden Çok Uzakta kitabındakine benzer bir konu işleyen yazarımızın kaleminden bu sefer Jack ve Elizabeth'in evliliğinin gittikçe uzaklaştığını anlamalarıyla ikilinin verdiği kararları okuyoruz.
Benim en çok duygulandığım kısımlarsa Jack'in geçmişte de yaptığı bir hatayı tekrarlaması sonucunda daha öncesinde Elizabeth'in verdiği tepkiyi hatırlaması ve üvey annesi Anita'yla Elizabeth'in birbirilerine açılarak yaklaşlamasıydı.
Kristin Hannah'dan okuduğum unutmayacağım bir roman oldu.
Everyone of her books I've read to date, I actually liked / loved, so I was disappointed to say that I barely liked this one.
This is the synopsis from publisher's weekly, quite possibly if I would have read that last line I would have realized this book wasn't going to be for me.Hannah returns with another second-chance-at-love story, this one as bleak as the soggy Pacific Northwest setting.
(When Birdie finds her bliss, she discovers she's miraculously lost weight.) Hannah's tried-and-true formula includes the predictable happy ending, complete with life lessons tearfully learned, but only hardcore fans will make it to the last page of this dreary soap.
DISAPPOINTING!this is what i felt about the book.Jack is the most selfish man who always thought abo
This is a relationship book. A typical story of a housewife who takes care of everyone, but herself. Her self-absorbed husband really loves her, but doesn't really know who she is. The pace is fairly fast and the characters are easily recognizable. Set on the Oregon coast, it made me long to sit by a fire and read this book.
Love this author, she doesn't disappoint. She writes about real life topics but not in a chick lit way. Her books keep me engaged the whole way through and look forward to reading more from her.
This book is about a bird who falls out of her nest because she has forgotten how to fly.
She has a husband, and two wonderful kids but somewhere along the way she has lost herself.
Grief forces her from her nest and she realizes that has to find the deep down love for herself and her lost passions before she can fly up to her nest to be loved once more.
I really enjoyed this book it reminded how important it is not to give up on my writing no matter how hectic my real life gets.
Story of Elizabeth's 24 year old marriage in crises, a wife who has given up her dreams for her husband and children.
Watching her own life pass her by as she became the best wife and mother she knew how to be, she no longer looks in the mirror and sees a whole and happy woman looking back.
It is one to be remembered, the finding of one's self, how to follow some of your own dreams while still doing for those you love.
I especially liked the relationship between the main character, Elizabeth and her stepmother, Anita.
We are never too old to learn.
Comparando aos anteriores que li da autora, este é mais fraco. No entanto é sempre uma autora que nunca me custa a ler. A escrita é simples e fluída. Gostei muito de Elizabeth, é tão fácil sentir empatia com tudo o que ela sente.A vida é feita de escolhas, umas mais fáceis outras bem difíceis. Muitas dessas escolhas mudam o resto da nossa vida.Gostei e aconselho a sua leitura.
But then again, by the second half of the book the characters were better developed, the writing seemed much improved (or was that my imagination?), and the story line felt less shallow and more intimate.
By the second half of the book, the writing was more detailed, to the point you could just imagine the view of the ocean in your mind's eye and you felt the despair her husband was going through when he realized he blew it big time.
Jack & Elizabeth have been married for 24 years; they have 2 grown children aged 20 & 19.
However, they are having problems in their marrige.Jack, a ex-NFL star, is trying to land a big-time TV announcing job.
Elizabeth is sick of moving.
She feels like she has lost herself.So when Jack moves to NY, Elizabeth stays in Oregon in order to try and decide what she wants to do with the rest of her life.
Meanwhile, Jack is in NY, and is really earning praise.Will Jack & Elizabeth ever get back together, or should they go their seperate ways after all of these years?
Birdie and Jack have a 24 year marriage and there are problems between them. Jack is unhappy in his job and wants to find the celebrity he once knew as a popular football player. Birdie can't find herself. Birdie's father passes away and everything gets much worse but some thing become better. This is a very slow moving story but in some ways reminded me of my first marriage. Changes in life often make you stronger and help you find talents you didn't know you had.
I like some Kristin Hannah books like Winter Garden, Nught Road and Firefly Lane. This book lacked the intrigue and drama of those novels though, was a bland, predictable, and not terribly believable plot.
Good, easy read. Pretty predictable, but there were a few times I teared up. The formatting on the nook book was a bit of a mess, so that took away from the story some. All in all, a story that makes you want to remember all the reasons you fell in love in the first place.
This is a story of an unraveling mariage. Elizabeth and Jackson Shore married young, raised two daughters and weathered the storms of youth as they built a family. This is a book that I could relate to ... They were able to reach out and become the people they want to be in the end.
I can't say the story "wowed" me and it is one I have heard before and after 41 years of marriage, lived through some of it.
While it probably should be read by the younger, less than 5 years married, crowd to serve as a reminder to keep sight of your true North, it probably will be appreciated more by the seasoned adult who has learned to don a lifejacket and float inland and stand on the distant shores once more.
I loved this book.
I was instantly drawn into this book because I related to Elizabeth who dedicated her life to her husband and children.
Any woman who has been married and raising children must have felt what Elizabeth felt at some point in their life.
In the end I believe that when you experience that “empty nest” syndrome, you start to look at who you have become and what you want to do next.
Relationships change and take a different direction as life moves on and changes.
Not everyone is lucky enough to figure it out.
I read this book during a travel day.
It was perfect for the occasion.
I liked this book because the conflicts were not melodramatic, but seemed to stem from a place of real life experience.
The way Elizabeth came back to herself over losing her way after many years of mothering and marriage was really inspiring to me.
I love how Hannah described her internal struggles, and I loved watching her stand up to her husband.
Watching the Dad relearning how to connect with his daughters at the end was also very powerful.
This book was really all you can want from a family drama book.
I've found Kristen after a recommendation to read Nightingale - which I loved.
Since then, I've been reading her other work and I'm continuing to be disappointed.This was a huge disappointment.
Aside from the obvious foreshadowing, I was so disappointed that she took me out of the book when she visited Nashville for Christmas.
"I learned to ice skate on the pond in front of my house." What?
There's no ice skating outside in Nashville - it rarely gets below freezing!
No one owns ice skates in Nashville!
She wrote the Christmas Nashville story like she was in the upper midwest and it was lame.
Great story of a couple that has been married for twenty-four years, but has grown apart because she has ignored her dreams to help him and their daughters pursue theirs. Now, after her father’s sudden death, she re-evaluates her life and chooses not to travel across the country with her husband when he has a second chance at achieving his dreams. Will she achieve her dreams? Will their marriage and family survive the separation?A well-written and heart-tugging book about love, family, and hopes and dreams.
Não é de longe nem de perto um dos meus favoritos, mas não deixa de ser uma leitura simples e rápida. Nesta estória a autora prova que a vida é feita de escolhas e que nem sempre enveredamos pela mais certa, só dando valor ao que temos quando o perdemos. Vencer não é tudo.
The power of love, the power of forgiveness family relationships. It has the ingredients of a tearjerker, happy ending though.
My only real difficulty with this book was that Jack and Birdie didn't exactly have a "normal" family life, and while I'm sure many couples go through similar struggles, Jack's job and fame presented a lot of issues that other families wouldn't have to deal with.
Even if my main dream in life is to be a wife and mother, children don't stay in the home forever and I wouldn't ever want to end up like Birdie, married for twenty-four years yet having no idea of who she is.
