https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/184425.The_Permanent_Revolution_Results_and_Prospects
The Permanent Revolution & Results and Prospects is an interesting read, but far from the jumping off point for a study of leftism.
Results and Prospects includes Trotsky's thoughts on the need for revolution that overthrows the monarchy and feudal system to push on until a dictatorship of the proletariat/working class and an international socialist system are fully realized.
Starting with the final chapter would have made the rest of the read less of a slog.I suggest reading some foundational works by Marx and Lenin, and maybe even a history of the Russian revolutions, before tackling The Permanent Revolution & Results and Prospects.
eh si, nel secolo scorso l'ho letto.
For this reason Russia has developed a proletariat that is surprisingly advanced given its lack of bourgeois liberalism.
Trotsky reminds the reader that (as Marx recognized), a Proletarian revolution is not a panacea, and a Proletarian government will not be able to "perform miracles." It is a political revolution, and will create the opportunity to apply political pressure: 8 hour day, expropriation (with compensation of possible without if not, planned production, etc.) The revolution in Russia means revolution spreading west through all of the capitalist states of Europe.
But that only applies to countries like Russia where the feudal aristocracy was in power.
In South Africa the bourgeoisie already was in power - apartheid wasn't feudalism - so this question is irrelevant.Anyway, there is no reason why a black bourgeoisie would have to rise and abolish apartheid before socialist revolution is possible.
The anti-apartheid movement was a proletarian movement, and the imperialists got scared, which is why they gave the ANC leadership power on a bourgeois basis, to prevent socialist revolution.Look what the SA workers think about the ANC now:http://www.marxist.com/mandela-memori...http://www.marxist.com/south-africa-n...
Interesting, but I would have preferred something with a tighter thesis. It mostly read like a collection of ranty letters detailing political infighting between Trotsky and... pretty much everyone else involved in the revolution.
ŞEREFSİZ TROÇKİ SEN HAKSIZSIN
First off when picking this up you should realize that this isnt so much of a book explaining Trotskys ideas of the Permanent Revolution, but rather a rebuttal about the criticisms lobbed at him by various critics such as Radek, and of course Stalin. With that said if youve no previous knowledge of Trotskyism, and what that entails you should not start off with reading this book. This book is primarily for those looking for answers to some issues people had with his ideals.That being said this i
This book is primarily for those looking for answers to some issues people had with his ideals.That being said this is a hard read for obvious reasons as it gets very theoretical at times.
Also at times the arguments presented against Trotsky were so minor, yet Trotsky would spend pages arguing why these points were wrong.
While I am sure people can enjoy that Trotsky left no stone unturned it does get very tedious.The book is fine as supplemental material for any budding supporters of Trotskyism out there, but if you want to get more refined details you will have to look elsewhere.
The book is not easy to read because cde Trotsky is more or less reacting to criticisms being made by Stalin, Radek, Bukharin among many other critics on his theory of permanent revolution.
Trotsky believes that a revolution moves a state from being a bourgeoisie state into a petty bourgeoisie or into the proletarian dictatorship with the workers leading the peasants which then grows over into the socialist revolution.
When I embarked on reading the book, my desire was to know what the theory of permanent revolution is.
Vulgar productivism, unilluminating - not impressed.
I respect the theory of the Permanent Revolution, however, I don't believe Trosky executed the teaching of this theory properly, by focusing to much on the betrayal of the Soviet Union.
También es un libro fundamental en tanto se ocupa directamente del concepto de revolución permanente, que está a la izquierda de la izquierda.
La revolución permanente consiste en la dictadura del proletariado a escala planetaria, es decir primero se propone revolucionar unas cuantas naciones, luego todas las naciones del planeta.
Me pareció muy interesante la potencia discursiva de Trotsky en este libro.
Me resultó muy interesante la discusión interna sobre el rol de los campesinos en relación con el rol de los obreros en la revolución permanente, que en realidad no es permanente en sentido estricto porque tiene una culminación con la dictadura del proletariado a escala planetaria.
Thus when America is compelled to engage in acts of open military criminality, the responsibility – in the eyes of the U.S. population and to a certain degree in the eyes of mankind as a whole – falls upon all the other citizens of the planet but not on the U.S. itself.“Wilson helped finish off Germany and then appeared, as you will recall, in Europe accoutred from head to toe in his Fourteen Points, which promised universal well-being and the reign of peace, the right of nations to self-determination, punishment for such criminals as the Kaiser, and rewards to all virtuous people, etc.
Trotsky is one of the heroes of the Russian Revolution, and it was he who assisted the fledgling communists who differed with Stalin when Lenin grew old and sick and was no longer able to read.
This is the theory of the Permanent Revolution.He was mistaken.
Look all the way south, and ask yourself whether South Africa is a dictatorship of the proletariat.
Trotsky said this could not happen, and yet it did.Trotsky's overall contribution to Russia and to revolutionists is immeasurable, and I do not mean to negate all of his work or theory; quite the contrary.
I had never read anything by Trotsky before I started this book, and I figured I should at least try something, considering that I am very interested in this topic...
Trotsky spends a lot of time (understandably) defending himself and his theories against incessant Stalinist attacks.
You can feel his frustration as he tries to logically prove why he stands on the right side of history; unfortunately, he never seemed to really grasp that his persecution was essentially straight political maneuvering on the part of Stalin.
If you are not well-versed in Soviet political history, I suggest you read the epilogue first.
Rock solid defense of Permanent Revolution versus Stalin's Socialism In One Country perverted sham and his epigones wayward, callous attack on Trotsky, the Left Opposition and the gospel of Permanent Revolution.
Ironic that this epigones, most of them anyway, were later executed by Stalin.It is too bad today that Marxism has such a negative connotation and rather ironic as well because that is due to Stalin who wasn't a Marxist or communist at all, but rather a ruthless thug.
More and More Countries in the world have socialist policies and governments!!!; moreover they take care of their people.
Results And Prospects was written after the 1905 revolution.
The Permanent Revolution was written about 25 years later.
He is made to reply to characterizations of things he wrote (which others actually wrote or said) before the 1917 revolution.
His defense is primarily, not only was that not me who said it, but I said this thing that was in lockstep with Lenin at the time...
and besides why are you attacking my theories before the revolution, rather than noticing my actions during the revolution, and in the years that followed.It is similar to the book Zizek intro'd, in reply to Kautsky.

The formulation of the theory is mostly at the beginning of the book and the 14 theses. The core of the book is about responding to poor Radek, who was forced to attack the principles of Leninism by the miserable traitor Stalin, this scumbag needed someone to ideologise and justify his betrayal of the Chinese revolution by capitulating to the Kuomintang. Great enlightening read on the impossibility of Socialism in national scale.
If you want to know WHY the Third World Bourgeoisie, on acquiring power, are usually MORE reactionary than the colonial powers they have replaced then look no further than this book. The context and epoch may have changed but the methodology remains sound.
öyle sürekli sürekli devrim olmaz arkadaşım. Stalin candır.
