https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/398323.Out_Stealing_Horses
particularly in the way the characters say almost nothing that reveals their deep feelings and motives to each other, so that the reader has to infer all of that from their actions, whether noble or petty.But this may be a more universal story of how men particularly have trouble expressing their feelings in words, or even wanting to share those emotions with the people they love most.
And frankly, I ended by feeling angry at the boy's father, even though I can't explain why without revealing a critical part of the plot.One of the ironies of "Out Stealing Horses" is that the narrator's favorite author is Dickens, who explores his characters' personalities in great detail and always resolves everything for the better at the end of most of his novels.
This is a story of growth, of a boy who becomes and adult in an isolated rural region of Norway, close to the Swedish border, in the course of one summer.But this is also a story of decline, of an old man who revisits the countryside where he last saw his father in 1948, expecting to capture the blinding light of indifferent nature, the flashing clarity of unhurried memories, the physical vigor that pumped up his young body more than sixty years ago before the clock of his worn-out life ticks out.Two stories and a single first-person narrator, at first separated by the unbridgeable abyss of time, end up converging in a tapestry of revelations and silences that bespeak of the invisible threads that weave fate and chance, choice and serendipity together.In Petterson’s world there is no place for far-fetched coincidences, everything that happens in the life of his characters is a direct result of their actions in a specific moment in time.
Looking into that mirror, can we really see ourselves, or is our view doomed to be perpetually blocked, offering maybe a Maigret image of only the backs of our heads?
If I could I would have given it 3.5 stars.There are events in the story that call for some more drama in how Trond reacts, yet he often seems incapable.
The book made me wonder, though, if the author’s great gifts have been put to more satisfying use in other works.
Petterson likes to mirror events and images.
But while the imagery satisfies the thinness of Trond leaves one wanting something more.
What in the hell?I am completely flummoxed by my own reaction to this book.So, quick back story on this.
It's like the best book I've ever read in my life.”Out Stealing Horses?
Soooo many “kisses of death” exist here for me as a reader.And yet.And yet, despite all of these issues, this book contains some of the deepest, heart-achingly beautiful descriptions of aging and longing and abandonment and joy and regrets.
I feel like I'd need to read it at least two more times to grasp what is really, really wonderful here.It's a story of an aging man and his dog (who is better written than almost all of the humans), and, in the end, it knocked me out.

The only negative thing I can say – or, more accurately, am willing to say – about this novel is that it begs to be read by the fireplace, and not everybody has a fireplace. I don't have a fireplace.
He realizes that the stranger, is someone from his childhood, Lars, the brother of his once good friend Jon. This is the catalyst for the extended voyage Trond embarks on in his mind, as it's memory that comprises the bulk of the story.In an inspired move, Petterson emphasizes Trond’s alienation from the surrounding world through repeated references to film.
The melancholy aroused by Trond’s memories stems not only from his father’s disappearance after the second world war, but from the calamity of carefree childhood games, a tragic accident that altered his youth, and an incident involving his father and Jon's mother by the river.
He specifically looks back at the summer of 1948 when he was living in a cabin with his father.One day Trond's friend Jon shows up and asks him to go on an adventure with him.
A time when a teen learns about his father's involvement during the Norwegian resistance during the war.
A time when people disappear from our lives and an abandoned teen is faced with life altering decisions.This book goes back and forth between the present time (1999) and 1948.
The Author shows us Trond's adolescent and adult interpretations of the events of his life.
With the use of stark, simple language, Norwegian author Per Petterson tells the complex story of a summer that brings about a coming of age for 15 year old Trond, seen through his 67 year old eyes.
But, while he may have simplified his landscape, all the messiness of his interior life comes with him, especially when he discovers his neighbour is someone from his past, during a pivotal time in his youth.Petterson employs gorgeous contrasts: youth and age, the blistering heat of summer and the dead quiet brought by heavy snow of winter, innocence and experience.
And surprised--my right hand still held several pages of the book, and I hadn't realized they were the blank ones that often come at the end.I was sorry, because I wanted to spend more time in this space--rural Norway, mostly, with ventures into Oslo and Sweden.
I wanted to spend more time with the narrator, Trond, whose name rarely emerges in the text and who we follow when he is fifteen and when he is sixty-seven, with ventures elsewhere in his life.It's the story of a man who, growing older and having suffered a terrible loss, retreats to an old cabin in the country.
My reading experience was great, I had a good time and the writing style was just divine.
However, somehow something was just missing...There were some super interesting things happening in the beginning, but unfortunately, these situations weren't explored further, even though they made a huge impact on all the characters.
Yes, I probably would, because the writing style was so amazing, and I can imagine that others might enjoy the direction the story went into more than I did.
The thing about war is that it shifts relationships, particularly in these civil conflicts when there is an element of collaboration as well as resistance and after the war the narrator's family is abruptly broken up by a letter from the father declaring that we won't come home again but has left a sum of money in a country bank for his wife to collect from Sweden.
This is a reflective book, in which the reader constructs the story as far as they can in their imagination, beyond the basic facts as above it is open to much interpretation.An excellent novel about chainsawing birch trees and decisions as mappable points in a life and deciding when something should hurt or not - in the narrator's case about forty years after the event.
The imagery and atmosphere of Norway were delightful and the logging activities were told with a level of detail and surroundings that you can feel the chill with snow falling, the darkness of early nights, and the expanse of the forests and rivers.The writing very cleverly delivers layer after layer a picture of a man who intensely analyses, probably overanalyses, every situation, from should he return a hug or what a certain glance meant, to decisions that have a dramatic impact on his life.
As I said in an update, this book has some of the most effortless to read prose I've ever encountered, but also seems very worth re-reading.This story of a father and son's relationship, linked by mentions of the titular phrase, holds so much emotion: love, loss, pain, regret, hope and hopelessness, moments of overwhelming joy followed by inevitable sadness.
There is a deep sadness about the book in spite of the moments of joy.
I definitely will re-read this book to feel it again and experience Trond's life again.
رواية أنيقة، مثل لوحة بديعة تتحرك بحذر بين الضوء والظل، بين ما يقال صراحة وما يتجاوزه الراوي عمدًا. أحببت اشتغاله على مناطق الصمت وقدرته العالية على القبض على "صوت الطفل" المفعم بالتساؤل والجوع إلى الفهم والاتساع. هناك أيضا الحضور الغامر للمكان بشكل حسّي وحي. أنت فقط تقرر متى تتوجع.
As Petterson writes, "People like it when you tell them things, in suitable portions, in a modest, intimate tone, and they think they know you, but they do not, they know about you, for what they are let in on are facts, not feelings, not what your opinion is about anything at all, not how what has happened to you and how all the decisions you have made have turned you into who you are.
You only have to be polite and smile and keep paranoid thoughts at bay, because they will talk about you no matter how much you squirm, it is inevitable, and you would do the same thing yourself." My highest recommendation.
So what do you read when the geese are flying over, the leaves are turning, and Time is cleaning your mirrors?
The truths in this book are stated as sparely and simply as one of Sibelius' piano works, each piece of time whole in itself and then set down in just the right spot until it makes sense to the adult son and the reader.
They go to the tree-line and as spare as this book is, he leaves nothing out.
He really leaves nothing out.My high opinion of this book may be due to the time I read it, but I don't think so.
Beautiful and unexpected. Don't you love when a book finds its way to you?
Dennoch setzte ich mich wieder auf, schwang die Beine aus dem Bett, stellte die Fusse auf den Boden und suchte im Dunkeln nach meinen Kleidern, die über dem Rücken eines Sprossenstuhls hingen.
Dann lief ich durch die Küche in den Gang, zog die alte Seemannsjacke über, nahm die Taschenlampe vom Brett an der Wand und ging hinaus auf die Treppe.
Ich machte die Tür noch einmal auf und schaltete die Aussenbeleuchtung an.
Die rote Wand des Gerätschuppens warf einen warmen Wiederschein auf den Hof.” (Page 13) My loose translation: (All I wanted was to sleep.
"You decide for yourself when it will hurt."  The image of an egg falling from the top of a tree and then of a nest destroyed in some seconds. The image of life being shattered in the space of some seconds. These two images got imprinted on my retina while reading this book. They haunted me and they still haunt me even now after having finished the book. I don’t know if it’s Petterson’s unique style of writing that gives these images such strength or putting them in the context that he did. Or
It’s maybe the sadness determined by the realization that everything we do represents choices that determine chain reactions, the sadness felt by someone who has experienced betrayal and loss, the longing for solitude after you find that you have lost all the anchors in this world, but in the meantime for human compassion, the longing for resting your tired soul, the feeling of experiencing freedom or rather relief only when surrounded by nature.
But “we do decide for ourselves when it will hurt.” This is what Trond had learnt from his father and this guides him even now in his old age.
At certain points the novel suggests all that is good about Hemingway's "Big Two-Hearted River," which is not to say it's derivative, not at all; just that Petterson knows his Hemingway.
His way of life is stoic, in the purest sense: plain food, water, basic shelter and clothing, and a closeness to nature instilled in him during a summer in the region in 1948.
The narrative flashes effortlessly between that glorious coming of age summer and the present day.
In some sense the two eras impinge on each other, refract each other, in fascinating ways.
Not only are Petterson’ words gracefully spun -- and a translation from Norwegian to English at that -- but the story is told brilliantly.
In fact it’s not so much told as it is revealed, in a series of elegantly executed flashbacks.
He is not always likeable and there’s an air of mystery about him, but I think that’s what makes this story so engaging.
During the flashbacks to his youth, the summer he spent with his father, there’s an overall feeling of melancholy, even during moments of happiness.
Sumptuous Prose, but Largely Redundant Picking up this novel (translated from its original Norwegian), it is easy to understand why “Out Stealing Horses” has earned such high praise from critics; its author, Per Petterson, is a writer of astonishing talent.
The problem I have with this otherwise stellar book is that I feel like I’ve read it before – many times at that.“Out Stealing Horses” finds Trond Sander living in a self-inflicted isolation as he heads into his twilight years.
Set in the 1940's, Out Stealing Horses is not only a beautiful work of Scandinavian historical literature, but it's also a very nostalgic and brilliant boyhood coming-of-age tale in the vein of Stand By Me. Trond, an elderly gentleman who's still reeling over the loss of his wife in a car accident, finds that his new neighbour is a man he once knew as a young teenager, causing him to reflect back on a strange and cathartic summer where grief and loss are poignantly explored alongside their endearing adventure.While I'd initially heard complaints about this book that it was too boring, I really didn't find it to be so.
a third of the way through and i was certain i'd give this book four or five stars...
spare, strong sentences, a jumping chronology, meandering, mysterious...
i loved it.
and had it remained how it had started -- that is, a book of sketches strung together by a common element -- i would have loved it...
in a way, i think, petterson lacks confidence in his own abilities: he introduces certain plot elements i found wholly unnecessary (not to mention an incredibly anti-climactic resolution) that work to undermine the great sections of the book and reduce the entirety of the whole.
"You decide yourself when it will hurt."Pet Petterson's novel about a man in late middle age who has exiled himself to a cottage in the remote Norwegian countryside has garnered literary prizes and rave reviews almost everywhere.
But at the end, despite the beautiful writing, I was struck by a slight sense of inconsequence.
According to the blurb on the back, Amy Tan finished the book "with an exhalation of awe." I only exhaled.That said, this book does cast a kind of spell over you as you read, and many of its scenes flood the shadows of your mind with a silent, sepia-toned beauty.
This Norwegian novel would most likely never have made it on my To-Read list if it weren't for Julie's brilliant back story about how she heard about it at a New Year's Eve party, was angered by it when she picked it up, and then somehow found her way to a five-star review.
Jackson voice, circa Snakes on a Plane, "I want to read this motherf*ckin book about motherf*ckin HORSES!")Well, my reaction while reading this was pretty similar to Julie's (minus some stars), although I was probably more patient in the boring and one-dimensional bits, because I was waiting for the payload.
But solitude additionally affords him much time to also contemplate his past, and then an old acquaintance from those long ago summers surprisingly ends up being his next door neighbor which adds to the tension as the narrator Trond relates to the reader his vividly poignant memories.
Every person in the book whether it be his summer friend Jon who was responsible for the rifle accident that took his younger brother’s life, Lar’s the surviving twin who actually shot his brother dead as a little boy while they were both left unattended, Trond’s father who was having an affair with the grieving mother, the mother herself, and even Trond's own mother, all of them a clouded image as in memory and none of them clear to us or to Trond from which to figure anything out.
As the focus of the novel shifts seamlessly between a summer Trond spent working with his father and the silent time he now spends alone in his cold, tiny cabin, the details of his tragedy and its lasting effects are slowly drawn into focus.
I also like the way that Petterson uses seasons to tell his story: Trond's memories of a warm summer spent working with his father contrast sharply with the dark and terrible winter he sees overwhelming the land from his lonely cabin window.
Håvard Vikhagen (n. 1952) - Pintor (Out Stealing Horses (Ut og stjæle hester)) Uma história evocativa e nostálgica de um regresso às origens - dominada pelos sentimentos humanos e condicionada por uma floresta deslumbrante. Magistral... "Toda a minha vida ansiei por estar sozinho num lugar como este. Mesmo quando tudo corria bem, como era frequente acontecer. Bem que o posso dizer. Tenho dito sorte. Mas mesmo nessas alturas, por exemplo a meio de um abraço e quando alguém me sussurrava ao ouvido
"Toda a minha vida ansiei por estar sozinho num lugar como este.
Trond acredita "que somos nós que modelamos as nossas vidas, de qualquer maneira, eu modelei a minha, valha o que valer, e assumo toda a responsabilidade." (Pág.
74)"As pessoas gostam quando lhe dizemos coisas, em porções adequadas, num tom modesto e íntimo, e pensam que nos conhecem, mas não conhecem, sabem coisas a "nosso" respeito, pois aquilo que os deixamos saber são factos, não sentimentos, nada acerca das nossas opiniões, não aquilo que nos aconteceu nem como todas as decisões que tomámos nos transformaram naquilo que somos." (Pág.
