https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/225806.The_Wisdom_of_the_Desert
IT WAS told of Abbot John the Dwarf that once he had said to his elder brother: I want to live in the same security as the angels have, doing no work, but serving God without intermission.
Then his brother answered and said: John has become an angel and is no longer among men.
Abbot Anthony replied: So it is also in the work of God. If we push ourselves beyond measure, the brethren will soon collapse.
AN ELDER was was asked by a certain soldier if God would forgive a sinner.
Almost Zen like - truly amazing that this group from so long ago can still speak to us from across the desert of time.

Monks, anchorites, copts, and hermits offer an example of spirituality and inner-guidance almost completely forgotten in the West these days; and (as the editor notes in his foreword) all the more neglected with the modern backlash against organized religions.
Instead, they're desperate to find a place in which to re-cultivate love of both men and God. They want to find a way to 'get a hold of themselves' and behave steadily, devotedly, deliberately; and with forethought.
How can we stop over-valuing these absurd, puny, piddling little piles of material possessions we're always so obsessed with amassing (are we ants in an ant-mound, gathering grains)?
To all these questions, these long-forgotten monks demonstrate that yes, there is surely 'another way'.
An excerpt:It was told of Abbot John the Dwarf that once he had said to his elder brother: I want to live in the same security as the angels have, doing no work, but serving God without intermission.
And while he was knocking on the door, his brother called out before opening, and asked: Who are you?
Then his brother answered and said: John has become an angel and is no longer among men.
Still the brother did not open, but kept him waiting.
Finally, opening the door, he said: If you are a man, you are going to have to start working again in order to live.
CXLVII:"Abbot Hyperichus said: A monk who cannot hold his tongue when he is angry will not be able to control the passion of lust either." Thomas Merton has condensed the succinct shrewdness of the hermits of the desert into several powerful paragraphs, each separate and not connected.
While penitence has an undeniably central role in living the Gospel, the feeling of guilt is something unhealthy that racks apart the body and mind, shortens our lives, and limits what we are able to do.
I can accept my pain, when it comes, as God's gift, and not feel guilty that I am not doing what another is able to do.
One of my favorites is by Abbot Pastor: "Any trial whatever that comes to you can be conquered by silence."Or this one, also by Abbot Pastor: "Get away from any man who always argues every time he talks."And yet another involving Abbot Pastor: A Brother came to Abbot Pastor and said: "Many distracting thoughts come into my mind, and I am in danger because of them.
then the elder thrust him out into the open air and said: Open up the garments about your chest and catch the wind in them.
so the elder said to him: If you cannot catch the wind, neither can you prevent distracting thoughts from coming into your head.
I walked away from this book realizing how difficult it can be to be truly "not of this world." However, as with all writings by/compiled by Thomas Merton, I find answers as to why I often feel so disconnected with society.
Most notable practical lesson to learn from this book: Thank God for your suffering, your temptation, your weakness.
Without these things, we are the rich man (who finds it harder to get to Heaven than fitting a camel through the eye of a needle), because we never feel that burning desire to reach out to God.
In reading this, be aware that Merton was not seeking to present an in-depth analysis of the Apothegmata of the Desert Fathers, nor was he trying to gather together a comprehensive body of their words and sayings. Rather, think of this as a pieced-together collection of an old friend's favorite sayings by the wise early Christian monastics of the Egyptian and Palestinian deserts (all preceded by a short but profound introduction wherein said friend showcases their subtly brilliant understanding of the spirituality of said monks).Wonderful.
A very good professor of mine gave this to me as a gift for working with him on the Tao Te Ching. The short, concise statements of wisdom will appeal to any one seeking spiritual and mental enlightenment. A reader can breeze through these nuggets of wisdom in a single sitting, but I would suggest digesting them slowely over time. I usually read only three a day. The depth of the message depends on the reader, but it's refreshing again to see wisdom coming from some of the oldest documents found on monks.
One of my favorite spiritual books of all time. Amazing, and fun, insights into the human spirit and the task of discipleship.
Thomas Merton--himself a monk at the Cistercian (Trappist) abbey of Gethsemani in Kentucky, points out that these men--all were men--were not aesthetics, but lived a sparse lifestyle in order to find humility and empathy, and, through all that humility engenders, find a freedom from the world that allows a person to love totally and unconditionally.Merton has taken a couple hundred anecdotal stories from the Verba Seniora, one of the volumes in the Latin Patrologies and formed this wonderful little book around these pithy anecdotes.
What sets this volume apart is that these are selected and translated by Thomas Merton, the influential Roman Catholic monk and peace activist, who also wrote an excellent introductory essay also entitled “The Wisdom of the Desert.”He talks about when Christianity was not only legalized by the Emperor, but made the official religion so that it became a means of temporal power.
As I read more and more books by and about Thomas Merton, it’s nice to know that he has built his spiritual foundation on the lives and teachings of these Early Christian Desert Fathers.
The great value of the book, however, was the brief introduction provided by Merton in which he elaborates on the motivation of the hermits and their lifestyle.
Merton writes that the hermits -- who have left a "strange reputation" -- fled to the desert in search of salvation.
was regarded by them as a shipwreck from which each single individual man had to swim for his life" (paradoxically, this shipwrecked society had recently become Christian).The Empire from which these monks escaped was much like our present one: obsessed with the imposition of will and desire upon one another.
To that end, they sought the freedom to pursue God individually in the wilderness.
Es curioso que una religión con una doctrina tan esperpéntica como la del cristianismo haya logrado cumplir ese último rol durante tanto tiempo.
Al menos ese es el efecto que me produjo releer esta compilación abreviada de los Apotegmas de los padres del desierto , una miscelánea de la vida cotidiana de unos pocos individuos (místicos en el sentido de Weber) que abandonaron los compromisos mundanos para lanzarse a una lucha desgarradora con (sus propios) demonios en el desierto.
Apotegmas tampoco es un libro tan largo para justificar un ajuste tan brutal, así que al lector o la lectora interesada en estos extremos de la experiencia humana le conviene ir a traducciones completas del original, como la de Benedicta Ward.
My favorite inclusion:"There were two elders living together in a call, and they had never had so much as one quarrel with one another.
One therefore said to the other: Come on, let us have at least one quarrel, like other men.
The other said: I don't know how to start a quarrel.
The first said: I will take this brick and place it here between us.
So then they placed the bricks between them, one said: It is mine, and the other replied to the first: I do believe that it is mine.
Thus they did not manage after all to get into a quarrel." (CXII; p.

یک انسان بسیار بسیار منظم را تصور کنید که مقابل شما ایستاده است و به شما نگاه میکند.
چهره اش چه حالتی دارد؟ کمی اخم کرده یا خندان و مهربان است؟حالا یک انسان بسیار بسیار مذهبی را تصور کنید که مقابل شما ایستاده و به شما نگاه میکند.
نه میتوانی به راحتی آنها را محکوم به سطحی بودن کنی، نه میتوانی هر چه آنان کردند مو به مو اجرا کنی.
اما من هرگز خودم را از چند صفحه مهمان حکمت ایشان بودن محروم نخواهم کرد.
For a long time I assumed, wrongly of-course, Christianity to be of a monolithic tradition. This book with the sayings of 'Desert Fathers of fourth century' shattered my assumption. I liked many of the sayings. Even an irreligious person might find several of the sayings to be profound. I also like the aphoristic/anecdotal format. No beating about the bush.
Tiny tales of the “desert fathers”, translated from an ancient source, and preceded by Merton’s essay. Not quite Zen-like, but perhaps as near as orthodox Christianity gets.
The Desert Fathers (and Mothers - whose wisdom and spiritual insight is regrettably not presented here) were master psychologists long (indeed, more than a thousand years) before the likes of Freud or Piaget or Ellis crawled about on the nursery floor.Pay no heed to the harsh desert environment in which the Fathers lived.
They are filled with spiritual wisdom that applies even today, more than 1500 years since these great heroes of the Orthodox Christian Faith fought the good fight in the deserts of Egypt.
This particular translation, though, is lacking.
While the translation is lacking, the presentation is beautiful.
The book features a very nice, easy to read font, a soft chord bookmark, and a layout that makes it both easy to read and a great overall experience.
If someone combined the presentation of this book with the translation of another, it would be an A plus.
Typical MertonIt's difficult to review a spiritual piece like this because it doesn't read like a bestseller or work of fiction. The only thing I can say is that if you know Thomas Merton's work, you will enjoy this book.
Excellent read full of snippets of wisdom. I am not Christian but in general there is wisdom to be found and learnt. Obviously you can skip/read past the bits referring to Christianity specifically.This is the kind of book you need to take notes of while reading. A very easy read and can be finished very quickly.
Lots of saying that Merton translated some good most not
whatever you see your soul to desire according to God, do that thing, and you shall keep your heart safe-The Wisdom of the Desert
Certainly deserves more digestion than this reading challenge can present, but a powerful little volume that reminded me of the power of parable and increased my respect for aesceticism
So so good for the soul
I like that this is just a little collection of Merton’s favorites.
Here’s one of the sayings I particularly liked:“Abbot Lot came to Abbot Joseph and said: Father, according as I am able, I keep my little rule, and my little fast, my prayer, meditation and contemplative silence; and according as I am able I strive to cleanse my heart of thoughts: now what more should I do?
The elder rose up in reply and stretched out his hands to heaven, and his fingers became like ten lamps of fire.
He said: Why not be totally changed into fire?”
The foreword describing the historical context and the lasting cultural impact of the desert fathers was interesting.The "sayings" themselves were a let down. I didn't find them to be as pithy or impactful as Zen koans or canonical Christian parables. I found a few I liked, but many seemed best-suited for just the individual fathers or Christians. Granted, I was looking for more secular insight. I can see how it would be very enjoyable/insightful for Christians, those with a more spiritual bent, and those inherently interested in the fathers themselves.
