https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3564508-the-uninvited
There is a light and breezy feel to this narrative which makes it the perfect summer read if you are tired of the run-of-the-mill.Roderick and his sister Pamela leave the hustle and bustle of modern London looking for that perfect house on the English coast.
From their first meeting with the sweet and lovely young Stella Meredith, whose grandfather owns the house, we know there is a larger mystery here.
It unfolds slowly as Roderick and Pamela attempt to solve this maddening riddle to an otherwise wonderful house they don't want to leave.
The story, in a very brief nutshell, revolves around the perfect house on the Devon Coast, Cliff End. It is supposed to the be setting for a pair of siblings' idyllic country life as they decide to leave London behind, but things don't turn out as planned.
When their first houseguests arrive, things get even stranger; the horror becomes gradually worse to the point where the Fitzgeralds realize that the only smart thing would be to leave Cliff End. Ultimately, though, they realize that everything they're experiencing seems to center directly on the daughter of one of the now-dead inhabitants, a young woman named Stella.
What I liked very much in this novel was the prolonged, pre-ghost set-up period, when Macardle’s protagonists, a quietly charming, twenty-something Anglo-Irish brother and sister, Roderick and Pamela Fitzgerald, fall in love with a Devonian seaside house and find themselves inexorably drawn into its spell.
Both characters are very well drawn, as are the sharply characterized minor figures Macardle adriotly arrays around them: their suave London friends Max and Judith; the wonderfully named—and appropriately fey—theatrical couple, Wendy and Peter; dour Dr Scott; dourer Commander Brooke; the Commander’s vulnerable and passionate granddaughter Stella; heart-of-gold Irish housekeeper Lizzie, etc.
It is, however, a classic of Irish literature, and was recently republished by Tramp Press.
These days many would disagree with her ardent support of Eamonn De Valera, a leader in the 1916 uprising, Anglo Irish war, and the Irish Civil War. Despite his "revolutionary" beginnings, De Valera came to embody the conservative values that made the lives of so many Irish citizens miserable for decades, especially for women.A brother and sister leave London after buying a house in Cornwall.
The house is haunted, and although they are warned, they move in.
As the story builds, the haunting takes ahold of many of the characters.
They suspect that it involves Stella, the granddaughter of the man who reluctantly sold them the house, because she is drawn to them and to that room.The story unwinds slowly as Roderick and Pamela set about uncovering the history of their home, in the hope that when they know what has happened there they can somehow put things right.
Atmospheric story of a haunted house known as Cliff End off the coast of Devon. A solidly plotted ghost story with a couple of twists and turns to keep the reader guessing. Enjoyed the tone of the novel and the complex history of "the haunting."A tad dated but it just added to the overall style of the novel.
Re-reading an old favorite because I just saw the play and re-watched the movie (another old favorite).
I saw the movie version with Ray Milland years ago but remember it fairly well, I knew how it would end but that did not make this a dull read, not in the least, actually I enjoyed it immensely!
The movie had some variations but I found the book more straight forth and also more paranormal occurrences that made it more a ghost story.
Even though Ray Milland and Ruth Hussey played their parts well, I saw Roderick and Pamela younger.
I wished the ending had a resolution for Pamela but since it did not I take privilege to enlist my own thoughts that satisfies my desires.
I had been meaning to read this book for a very long time.
The movie version from the 40s was one of my favorites.
My mother and I would watch it every time it was on television.
I hoped it would live up to the movie--and it really did.
Quintessential English ghost story--creepy mouldering abandoned house by the sea, unsuspecting likeable protagonists, family tragedies and mysteries, malevolent spirits...Wonderful.
I felt like starting it over again as soon as I was finished.Luckily, I have the new Sarah Waters book, The Little Stranger, another ghost story, to move to next.
The Uninvited contains all the requisite elements of a good, old-fashioned ghost story: an atmosphere of comforting banality made freakish by the subtle application of creepiness; a goodly number of sophisticated characters who, of course, don’t believe in the supernatural; confusion between the paranormal and the unreliability of the five senses; and a mean-spirited spirit who torments people when they are (gasp!) ALONE.
This novel also exploits the closed (at times claustrophobic) setting of a cozy-mystery; it is an isolated house that is haunted and, as such, the building almost incubates the scary beasty.
Both book and movie get 5 stars.The 1944 movie starring Ray Milland is excellent, a truly scary ghost story that doesn't fall into a hokey ending.The book, slightly different, delves deeper into the aspects of a haunted house without relying on gimmicks or tricks to scare you. It takes both the haunting and the characters' motives seriously, allowing them to solve the mystery accurately and humanly.This is one of a very few times (IMO) that Hollywood made the movie as good as the book!
Here's the cover of the 1946 Bantam mass-market paperback (341 pages).
I had been trying to find a copy of this book for years with no success. A nice lady on Goodreads sent me a link. (Thank you!) This book was even better than I had hoped. Beautifully written, flowing story that builds and builds to a terrific climax. I loved it. This is a really wonderful, psychological-type ghost story.Written in 1942, it's still one of the best ghost stories ever written.
Reread for Halloween!
Uneasy Freehold or, as it is now known thanks to the felicitous re-titling of the film version, The Uninvited, is a charming and suspenseful mid-twentieth-century Gothic ghost story.
Although I've seen the movie too many times to know if the surprise ending works here in the novel, the overall pacing the the build-up to the climax seemed in place--although I well knew what was coming.
Having seen the fine film so many times what I really noticed was what a great job the Hollywood hacks actually did--besides improving the title immeasurably--in constructing a great screenplay out of a fine novel without destroying the story's integrity.
I could not put this down. A very 40’s play-esque horror novel with plenty of creepiness and a drawn-out conclusion. There’s plenty to critique but the light bright story of a brother and sister who find a dream home which turns out to be haunted is just about perfect for a rainy day.
I first read this book when it was referenced by a character in another ghost story I enjoyed.
This is certainly an old-fashioned story, with characters very strongly representative of the time, yet these aren't cartoons but personas with depth and great charm.
You will no doubt unravel the clues before the protagonists but that won't make you lose respect for them or their fumbling in the dark because the book does an excellent job of plunging you into their clouding emotions and into their more innocent time, long before movies made us much more familiar with this kind of final-reel surprise.
Which reminds me...Once you read it, I also strongly recommend a screening of the black/white film of this book, starring Ray Milland, also a lot of fun.
A brother and sister weary of the London scene buy an outwardly charming fixer-upper on the Devonshire coast, only to find that they have paranormal tenants.
They elect to stick it out and figure out why they're haunted.
Well before the end of the book, I figured out what the "issue" was that caused the haunting, but it still made for an enjoyable, creepy read.
What I found most satisfying was that the brother and sister approached the haunting like a pair of sleuths solving a mystery, so they were active instead of passive.
This is an excellent classic ghost story. Set in England in the late 1930s, just before World War II, it's a classic haunted house tale with voices crying in the night, malevolent spirits and terrible secrets. This book was made into a film in 1944 called The Uninvited and it's a pretty faithful adaptation although the book gives much more background on the characters and their motivations.
This book was made into one of my favorite movies but I'd never actually read the original story.
Now I'm not sure how much I'll be able to enjoy the movie after reading this.
The book is so much more exciting, and knowing the basics of the plot really didn't impact my ability to enjoy it.
Since I already knew where the story was going, it was the journey to get there that I was most interested in and I wasn't disappointed.
I literally read it straight through without stopping except to sleep last night.
I can now see why it's considered a classic ghost story.
Five stars for the haunted house story, but one star for the narrator and his perpetual mansplaining. Roderick tells the housekeeper, who has been with the family since his childhood, his sister, a close friend, and his would-be sweetheart that they did not see what they saw nor felt what they felt. On the other hand, he accepts with wide-eyed credulity anything another man tells him. I was entirely out of patience with him.
Excellent classic haunted house novel by an Irish feminist. It took me a few chapters to get hooked but by chapter 8 I was unable to put it down!
A gothic novel about a grown brother and sister who move into their dream house on the cliffs of Devonshire, in spite of warnings that the house is haunted by its previous occupants.
1941.Full review (and other recommendations!) at Another look bookA tightly constructed gothic novel that, in my opinion, isn't actually frightening so much as it is interesting.
An engaging cast of characters, centered around an unlikely literary duo: a grown brother and sister who buy a house together.
I liked this ghost story. Not something I would normally read but I enjoyed it and the writing was occasionally quite good. 3.5-4 stars. 1943 Retro Hugo Finalist for Best Novelhttp://www.thehugoawards.org/hugo-his...
As a ghost story, The Uninvited is much more Dorothy Sayers than Shirley Jackson, but I mean that as the best compliment!
The gothic setting and Dorothy Macardle's descriptions of the Irish coast are magical, and I enjoyed the playful banter between siblings Roderick and Pamela Fitzgerald, who move into the large, vacant, "Cliff End" and quickly begin to uncover the house's dark history.
Through late night disturbances, chilling encounters, and spirited seances, these two are easily the most sensible and rational ghost hunters in literature.
It stretches the believability at times, but given this was originally published in 1944, it's also what gives this novel a distinct charm.
This was a fun, intriguing book full of mystery. The characters were enjoyable and relatable. The atmosphere was a nice juxtaposition of light and joy alternating with gloom and despair. The hauntings are thrilling with "what is the cause? What is the answer?" and suspense. Definitely an enjoyable read.The ending was slightly anticlimactic but it worked well for me. I really don't know how else it could have ended more satisfactorily to be honest.
The characters were unlikeable and the book was creepy for all the wrong reasons; the narrator falls in love with a woman he continually refers to as a child. Ugh. And there's so much that has absolutely nothing to do with the story but goes on for pages and pages. Lots of women getting ill after a fright. Ugh again. I just didn't enjoy this book.
I'm a sucker for a good ghost story and came to this via the 1944 movie with Ruth Hussey and Ray Milland (which is also excellent, and follows the book fairly closely).As I've found in other cases, knowing the story (via the movie) didn't spoil the enjoyment of the book.This was a good read from the start, charmingly 'period' in 2018 though a contemporary setting when written. Quite spooky I guess, though perhaps that was helped by me seeing scenes from the movie in my head and I read it.
Of course, it helped that I had seen the movie a number of times.
I suddenly found myself reading two books where a main character's name was Roderick.
I don't think I have ever read a book where the character's name was Roderick before.
The granddaughter now lived with him when she wasn't in school in Brussels and her parents were both dead.They move into the house and everything seems okay for a while and then they have a party where some friends come from the city.
Because I don't read a lot of horror or ghost stories, I wasn't sure how this book would affect me so I didn't read it at home.

