https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/735717.The_Secret_Mountain
I loved this book just like I loved The Secret of Spiggy Holes. I liked the character in the book known as Mafumu. He was smart, and caught on to english well. He helped Jack, and saved his parents! I loved this book very much!!!
Here she goes right out of USA and sets the story in Africa.
One can genuinely get a feel of Wales and England in Enid Blyton's works, her Africa seems like a hollow shell - if one needs to genuinely know Africa one has to read King Solomon's mines.
Due to the Africa not being believable enough, it affects the suspension of belief of the whole story.
I believe this is one of her earlier works - one can see greater maturity in handling exotic locales when one reads river of adventure and circus of adventure.
This was the first children's novel I ever saw, the first one I ever read, and the reason why I am an ardent reader today. Still have my original copy.
A wild adventure which could only happen during this time period.
Who would dream of taking young kids into the jungles of Africa with only body guards being the adults and facing who knows what environment or hostile groups?
While there are some racist portrayals you have to expect that during this time period and this is countered by the well-educated prince even if he behaves childish at times, but that is more because of his spoiled upbringing and his young age than anything else.
Reading this I was caught up in the adventure and rooting for the kids' search for their parents.
Definitely worth reading.
I don't remember much about the content anymore, but I know that books of Enid Blyton were on my bookshelf at my childhood. It was mostly mystery that was captivating and round characters (fully developed). I remember that the ending was always something that I didn't see coming and that is what I liked - this unexpected plot twist and how everything fits together. I'm sure that this and other books from the collection would be interesting to re-read or read for a bit older people. It doesn't have to be only children's literature to enjoy a fine writing.
Fue el primer libro que me leí a la edad de ocho años, y que me ha convertido en la lectora empedernida que soy hoy en día.😍
Like the first two books in this series, this one contains many familiar Blyton-esque ideas in their infant stages (many of which will come to full maturity in The Valley of Adventure and The Mountain of Adventure) but unlike with the first two books, the raw ideas in this one do not really gel for me.
This is a shame, as they all had very strong and distinct character traits before, particularly in The Secret Island.
Now, however, they are all but reduced to one single, lacklustre entity, particularly Nora and Peggy.
I get transported back to my good old school days whenever I read any book by Enid Blyton...this was
Mt least favourite of the three, although I always love the sacrificial scene with the eclipse...
good one...
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/13199627
The secret mountain sounds adventurious and when I read it I hope that it will be good.
Okay now this one is very Tintin. I didnt like it as much as the first in the series. i think i like reading how they became self sufficient in that first book.
