https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48974.I_Am_the_Cheese
It might be a surprise to learn that Cormier's novels are very bleak and pessimistic; concerned mostly with young protagonists and the pains of adolescence of growing up.
Cormier's novels are unusually dark for fiction addressed towards a younger audience, so much that concerned individuals and institutions tried to ban them.
If they knew how truly cruel kids can be, their heads would explode.I Am The Cheese is the story of Adam Farmer, a 14 year old boy who cycles from Monument, Massachusets to see his father at a hospital in Rutterburg, Vermont.
spoiler: THE CHEESE STANDS ALONE.
When I first saw this book, I thought it was strange book that no one would read and it was one of the books I just quote…dumb but Robert Cormier, who describes the protagonist, Adam Farmer, and his epic journey to see his father in Rutterburg, Vermont creates this amazing book -- all in flashbacks.
Adam Farmer a normal kid in school, one day finds the need see his father in Rutterburg, Vermont.
Shocked, grateful, and satisfied, when I finish the book the true story of Adam Farmer is shown.
Wish I had NEVER read this book.
Required reading for my 10th grader so I read it first.
Starts out good, keeps you reading even if it does bounce back and forth in time.
Then it ends horribly, suddenly without resolving anything and with no hope no finality.
It just ends where it begins.
Why, during a youth's most unsettling years of self doubt, low self esteem, bouts of depression, hopelessness; the teen years, why would a teacher want them to read a book like this?> I will ask her and report back.
However, for some reason, I don’t think I saw any of his other books in the local bookshop during my teen years (although this might have been as much because of my focus on fantasy novels such as The Lord of the Rings trilogy and the Dragonlance Chronicles as on the possibility that Robert Cormier’s books were not stocked locally at the time).
The other reason is that I am a Cormier on my mother’s side and being descended from 17th-century French colonists in Canada with the same name it’s very likely that I’m distantly related to this Canadian-American author.The strange thing is that it has taken me over twenty years to actually get around to reading the book!
Somehow, since 1977, this novel still feels super fresh.
For real.I was surprised at how much I liked the pacing and the voice, reminding me of a combination between "Catcher in the Rye", "The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Nighttime", with a bit of "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" and a splash of the films "Memento" and "Shutter Island" (in presentation of plot delivery).An excellent book at a great length for teens.
Well-written, tight, and only slowish around the three-quarter mark if I had to be picky.Will easily be reading and recommending more Robert Cormier to people, but specifically teens 13-19.
I am the Cheese by Robert Cormier was a fantastic book because it totally caught me off guard until the very end of the book.
Adam is mentally ill and is put in a facility because Adam knows something that the government doesn't want him to remember.
As a result, the government drugs Adam in the hope of erasing his memories.
The ending is very surprising, so i do not want to ruin the book.
Adam's life is like cheese in that it has many holes.
All in all, I recommend this book to anyone who likes surprises or adventures
Cormier's writing is compelling.
Adam lives in a dark world that he discovers as the book proceeds.
While I had my theories on things throughout, in the end I have no idea if they were confirmed or not.That is the problem with this book.
And for that, I loathe Mr. Cormier.
A reader should not leave unsettled.I am completely baffled as to what this story was.
Was it the tale that unfolded (newspaper man, identity, etc.) or is it a troubled youth caged living out fantasies?The reader is jilted by this book.
The lives of a small, mysterious family of the Farmers (Adam Farmer: Student, son of Mr.
What do the officials want from this average family?"A: I saw the Gray man get out of the car.A: I could tell mother was dead with her head twisted in an abnormal angle.T: What else did you see?
Personally being a fan of mystery, I enjoyed how Robert Cormier tosses in and stirs up the story with characters and conflicts to prevent the main character from getting what he wants.
Adam Farmer, or so he was given this name, lives a normal life - goes to school, hangs out with his friend, goes home, and all that other stuff.
WHOLE CLASS READINGAdam's whole life is like a maze.
He remembers when his life was happy and normal.
Moreover, the book is bleak and seems to pander to a demographic that likes needlessly scary movies or conspiracy theories.
Additionally, the format is somewhat confusing, and I feel could have been done better, so that identities and clues were more seamlessly woven together.
And while Adam begins to realize things and discover his identity, his discoveries are short lived and ultimately futile.
Honestly, I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone.
There are plenty of psychological thrillers out there, ones with better, more climactic, interesting, or useful endings.
When a friend of mine recommended me that book i thought it was a ''funny'' one.
The stories connect between them in a very clever way, the puzzle is being connected perfectlty and the final result leaves you dumbfounded when you realize what you had been reading all this time.Answers are being given, although the writer gives you some space to assume some things by yourself, and the ending though quite shocking, is satisfying.
You know, some times when you finish a book, you realize that the writer was trying to keep you awake through the reading just to offer you in the end milk and water.
I've read hundreds of books and I don't remember them all.
Usually when that happens, something in the book triggers my memory and I remember the story.
He describes these "blanks" in his memory, but he has "clues" as to what happened.Some of the clues seemed familiar to me and I'd think, "Oh, I've read this before," and I'd try to remember what happens next, but there were blanks in my mind -just like the protagonist describes.
By the time I got to the end, I was 94% sure that I haven't read it before.
The feeling that one gets from reading Robert Cormier books is vastly different from the aura of any other author's material because one senses the fact that a content, pleasing ending is not at all a foregone conclusion, that things just as likely (if not more so) might turn from bad to even worse for the protagonist that we come to know, a person with whom we become so intimately acquainted because his unforgettable narrating words are continually echoing inside our head while we read the story.
I Am The Cheese is Robert Cormier's nightmare version of Peter & The Wolf - this Peter's feverishly pedalling a rickety bike across New England in the dead of night.
Cormier's jagged narrative kicks up a hornet's nest of touchy topics like politics, religion and Freudian analysis.Several of the episodes in the book reminded me of recurring nightmares that I've had, so Mr. Cormier's novel, it can be said, crawled inside my head and stayed there for awhile.
The controversial ending to I Am The Cheese is so twisted that if Rod Serling had lived to read it he would have furiously kicked the church windows out in green-eyed envy.
(This revelation is similar to that in the movie The Usual Suspects, when the audience realizes that Kevin Spacey has invented the entire story out of clippings from a bulletin board.)Brint is interviewing Adam to see what he remembers, and in the last few pages of the book is the "annual report" on Adam's condition, complete with "advisories": (1) that Adam ("Subject A") be "terminated," or, failing that, that he (3) remain in "confinement" until he can be terminated or until he "obliterates." (Advisory #2 is that Mr. Grey be reinstated as an agent.)This is all rather cold and horrifying: to find out that you aren't who you thought you were (Paul Delmonte, not Adam Farmer) is identity-shaking enough, but then to realize - as Adam might, fuzzily, but as the reader can certainly piece together - that the governmental authority that was supposed to protect you in fact betrayed you.
I have however a love hate realtionship with Robert Cormier.
I felt he cheated in making a horrible ending for that story.One other note I Am The Cheese is the most difficult book I have read so far by Cormier.
It is also not clear really what is going on and what is real and what is not real until the end.
It is a bit like Sixth Sense.The book does require a strong reading who can stay with it.
It took me two readings to be really clear as to what was going on.
Throughout his explanation on his journey, every over chapter or so, a voice recording interview of Adam and a doctor named Brink, and throughout the interview we start, to know more about Adams past and why he is there, and the chilling conclusion leads you to find out.One thing that angers me about this book, is ITS SO UNDERATED!!
The thing I learned that was saddening, is what happened to Adam, could happen to anyone, and leaves me to believe that Adam is one of the loneliest people on literature since Holden Caulfield.
I have this distinct memory of finishing the book very late at night - when everything is dark and the house and the world are asleep.
There is no comfort to be found in the middle of the night when you are 13 years old and everything you feel isn't simply felt but you are violently attacked and conquered by the emotions you have no control over.
tl;dr - it made a big impression on me.I don't think I had read it since until this week.
It's a great book and I'd recommend it as a satisfying read, but my true alliance is in memory.
This book is about a boy named Adam who was going on a personal journey of finding his real identity.
He lived happyliy with his family until one day he became suspicious of his parents and later on found out that his real name is Paul Delmonte.
His family had being disguised since he was litte to avoid terrorists.
Not long after he found the truth, his parents both died from a car accident and he lost his memory and had to stay in a hospital to recover.
The book is really interesting because the twisting plots and various climax that make the book unputdowndable!
A great psychological thriller with a number of different aspects I felt I could relate to, personally. It trusts the reader to make connections and do a bit of thinking on their own part to really grasp what happens by the end, but I do wish it had explored the protagonist's state of mind a bit more. If you like psych-thrillers, and appreciate books that don't spell everything out for you, I'd recommend this.
Now here's a book that really breaks the mold of young adult fiction, and it's absolutely brilliant. It's told as a teenage boy's recollections to a shrink, but you won't get the full impact of his story until the very last page. And then - pow! I highly recommend it, but be warned: it's not a happy, feel-good book.
I read it for school and I absolutely loved it. Too bad I watched the movie before reading the book. Didn't know.
Having never heard about this book until it popped up on a class syllabus I was expecting to find reading this a chore and a bore.
I loved the way the story was structured switching between first person and the third person interviews/remembering.
Every time I finished a chapter I had to continue on to find out more.
The introduction in the copy I read said many people who read this book immediately want to read it a second time and I know I definitely do.
I want to go back and puzzle out the story now that I know more.
This was definitely a book that I thoroughly enjoyed! It was engaging, unique, and a great experience to read. I think the title was slightly misleading since it sounds as if it would be something humorous and whimsical, which this book certainly is not. (view spoiler)[ Even though a reason for the title was given near the end, I still thought it wasn't the most accurate title to represent the events and emotion in the story. Still, that's just nitpicking. (hide spoiler)]It had some stylistic el
(view spoiler)[ Even though a reason for the title was given near the end, I still thought it wasn't the most accurate title to represent the events and emotion in the story.
Given the main character's emotional problems that were present earlier in the story, and the kind of life he went through, I thought the ending was a logical buildup of events.
(hide spoiler)]I've also read The Chocolate War by Robert Cormier, and enjoyed that book as well, even more so than this one.
I took my time reading it and I felt like the main character.
The main character Adam Farmer is psychological ill because he faces trauma that is later mentioned in the book.
I loved this book so much because I felt like I could relate with Adam.
We need to end the oblivion in our lives like Adam did in order to live the truth not a lie.
The story doesn't have a happy ending but hey thats reality.
That another thing I like about this book, its realistic which allows the readers to relate to the characters.
What this young man does to see his father, And this Young man name is Adam Farmer.
Instead of try to see him in the hospital which would mean a lot more to that father.
Adam Farmer meets a lot of people on this journey.
Adam farmer is Frightened teen he is pretty much scared of everything.
To make Adam farmer calm is for him to pedal away his problems, Also to sing which he does a lot mostly “The Farmer in the Dell” .
In his Hospital Room he keeps singing his favorite song “The Farmer in the Dell”.
Well this book is just like that movie but it actually puts a modern twist to it.
This book is full of deception and lies that it makes this book interesting.This book is about a kid named Adam Farmer who has been drugged into finding out more information about his family, mainly his father.
As Adam is induced in the drug, someone interrogates him but instead of the normal painful integration, he is brought back to the past to relive what has happened.
I would definitely recommend this book to anyone who likes reading mysteries.
Although this does not seem like a mystery, the story within itself is one.
خیلی ناراحتم که هیچوقت قرار نیست این کتاب رو بخونید. کتاب یک بار سال ِ شصت و نه به فارسی ترجمه شده، و هیچ تجدید چاپی هم نداره. گیرتون نمیاد.داستانی که رابرت کورمیر، با قصاوت ِقلبی باورنکردنی، برای نوجوانان نوشته بود، از سیاهترین و تاریکترین داستانهایی بود که در کتابها خونده بودم یا در فیلمها دیده بودم. کورمیر برای چاپ کتابش، به مشکلات زیادی برخورده بود. کسی حاضر به چاپ کتابی به این اندازه تلخ برای نوجوانان نبود، و به نظرم کتاب، بیشتر از اینکه کتاب نوجوان باشه، کتاب بزرگساله. تاثیرگذارترین تصویرگ
خیلی ناراحتم که هیچ‌وقت قرار نیست این کتاب رو بخونید.
گیرتون نمیاد.داستانی که رابرت کورمیر، با قصاوت ِقلبی باورنکردنی، برای نوجوانان نوشته بود، از سیاه‌ترین و تاریک‌ترین داستان‌هایی بود که در کتاب‌ها خونده بودم یا در فیلم‌ها دیده بودم.
کسی حاضر به چاپ کتابی به این اندازه تلخ برای نوجوانان نبود، و به نظرم کتاب، بیشتر از اینکه کتاب نوجوان باشه، کتاب بزرگساله.
و این الزاما، از کتاب، یک رمان نوجوان نمیسازه.•در جاده‌ی سی و یک ایالت ِ ماساچوست هستم و با دوچرخه‌ام به طرف ِ راتربرگ در ایالت ِ ورمانت می‌روم.
I don't want to say too much about the action in the book because it ruins the element of surprise; but I will say that I kept reading it in fits and starts, putting it down and thinking: wait ...
am I reading what I think I'm reading?It starts off as a young boy's adventure story and keeps twisting in darker ways until it hits you over the head - BAM!
Forget about the ya genre, this is one of the best thrillers I have ever read!
(Now I understand why it was described as "subversive" .) I can't wait to read more Cormier.
The story didn't live up to its name until the last line of the book, however.
The book basically talked about this boy who's name is Paul, but he has to live a second life with his father and mother.
The book didn't make much sense because the book tells the story in two ways.
My favorite part of the book was when Paul, who has to ride his bike to the hospital where his father is staying at, goes to a restaurant and almost gets mugged by thugs.
For a classic, I really enjoyed this book.
