https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25509872-information-received
Published in 1933, this is the first in the series, featuring Constable Bobby Owen.
Bobby Owen is a young man who emerged from Oxford in the depression of the early thirties and, looking for a career, has joined the police force.
However, he finds himself on the spot when Sir Christopher Clarke is found murdered in his London home - while his safe has been robbed.
Indeed, so often is Owen on the spot, that Mitchell drily bets his colleagues that the young constable will be on the scene, at one point in the story.
He happens to be on the spot when Sir Christopher Clarke is found shot dead in his billiard room, and comes to the attention of Superintendent Mitchell who is called to investigate.
The plot tension builds to an exciting confrontation, but the method the author then chooses to reveal the whole solution is a bit long winded and flat (although the solution itself is satisfying enough).
I would just have preferred the drama of the confrontation to be carried on a bit further.I'll definitely be reading on to find out where Owen and Mitchell go next, and if all the books in the series are as good as this one, there's a lot of fun ahead!
4.5* A new author to me, enjoyed more than I was expecting.
3.5*
Last month I read Death Among The Sunbathers, the 2nd book in Punshon's Bobby Owen series.
I liked it enough that I knew I wanted to read more in the series.
While he is waiting his relief, he is called to the house across the street, where a man is lying on the floor in the billiard room, dead of 2 gunshot wounds to the chest.
Is this two crimes committed by the same person, or perhaps there were two criminals in the house this evening?
This is quite good, though perhaps not 4-stars good, which would be my top rating for the genre.
First in a series with an Oxford educated police officer (starting here as a constable). Bobby Owens is more hardworking young man than brilliant Oxford don, but he's got enough personality to at least make you want him to succeed.There's two intersecting crimes in the story that seem fairly obvious on their own, but certainly confuse issues together. Will check out further entries in series.
Learning that this author was highly recommended by Dorothy L. Sayers gave me the nudge to give this series a try. There are some very promising elements in this opening book, and I'm interested to give some of the subsequent titles a try.
The opening sentence of "Information Received" is a whole 10-line paragraph.
Welcome back to literature before Hemingway & Hurston, when English (like Greek) comprised separate written & spoken forms.
In its prose, in its lofty country-house & Lincoln's Inn settings, in the distinguished personages who inhabit them, & even in the feudal friction between ranks in the police force, "Information Received" is as vivid a showcase for the British class system as "Downton Abbey."Unwrapping the layers of E.
R. Punshon's prose to find his plot (and quite an intricate and fast-moving plot it is) can feel like forking through the filo in a spanakopita.
Please start reading this wonderfully well-written series. After tackling a few randomly, I am now making my way through them in order.They can be read and enjoyed as stand-alone but then you miss the development of Bobby as a detective and later his relationship with Olive. I cannot understand why these so literate works of detection have fallen out of favour and bless Dean Street Press for reviving them with the help of Curtis Evans.
I really love the era of classic British mysteries and I had never heard of E.R. Punshon before so this was a real treat. Interesting characters and a very complex puzzle to solve. The ending was a disappointment, but otherwise, I enjoyed reading this and look forward to reading more from Punshon. Bobby Owen has the makings of a great detective!
Enjoyable old mysteryI love the old mysteries. No vulgar words. Not explicit sex. Just a good old fashioned mystery. That's what this book is.
Punshon is another author I've recently found out when I decided to follow the thread left by the British Library Crime Classics. It was the best idea to reissue "forgotten" books/authors. I knew and liked Agatha Christie, but I had no idea there were many other good/interesting authors of detective fiction. I consider myself hooked. Some authors are better than others, and E. R. Punshon is my current favorite. I'll keep following Bobby Owen.
B
An intriguing start to what I hope is an interesting series. I liked the main characters and the mystery was engaging.
I love this Golden Age mysteries. I had to buy this one but some of the later ones are free.
Excellent start to a long series.
I enjoyed this book until the murder reveal (i.e. the letter) which I thought was too convoluted and used for padding the novel's length.
I really enjoyed this book and as it is the first in a series of 30 odd, I have plenty of others to look forward to. Although it is supposed to be about and introduce Bobby Owen it is more about Superintendent Mitchell who is a really likeable character. I have no doubt that Bobby will feature more as he gets on in the force. Good plot, likeable characters and we'll written. And ....... all available from Kindle at 99p a time. Highly recommended.
Thought this was well written and enjoyed the characters. The relationship between Bobby and Mitchell was superb, just what was expected between the ranks in the force. Will be reading more of this author's books.
Really enjoyed discovering this author. Will certainly be following his books.Really enjoyed discovering this author. Will certainly be looking f more of his books. A thoroughly good read. Thank you
Enjoyable, but it remains to be seen how this series holds up.
Classic murder mystery, I thought it was very well done and am looking forward tomreading more in the series.
