https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/366346.204_Rosewood_Lane
The positives to this series is that they are very wholesome and non challenging reading.
Not all reading needs to be of the literary type!
It takes all types to make the world go round’.There were a couple of characters I wasn’t loving in this one, Zach and Rosemary, who were divorcing and this scenario wasn’t realistic to me, at all.
These stories are a little humorous to me in the simplistic way they weave from one family to another, they are very predictable.
A nice way to spend a couple of days light reading is nothing to complain about!
There are way too many characters in this book.
Instead, we had Grace, Maryellen, Kelly, Olivia, Stan, Justine, Seth, Olivia's brother, Olivia's son, Charlotte, Jack, Jon, Eric, Shelly, their twin boys Todd and Tedd, Zac, Rosie, and their kids Allison and Eddie, Janice and her son Chris, Bob and Peggy Beldon, Troy Davis the sheriff, Roy and Corrie...I'm probably missing a few.
It was an insane number of characters for one book.
The situation with Rosie and Zac was totally ridiculous.
Keep your regular Tuesday night dates, learn to schedule your lives for God's sake.
The above map was taken from Debbie Macomber's web site and can be seen better at this hyperlink: Cedar Cove Map PDF. Warning: Don't study the red legend too carefully, there are spoilers there. In fact, maybe I should just tell you a few locations critical to the story.  is Olivia Lockhart’s house.  is Grace Sherman’s house.  is the home of Zack and Rosie Cox, and  is the bed and breakfast/home of Peggy and Bob Beldon. If you just click on the pic instead of the hyperlink, it should take you t
The narrator, Sandra Burr, again does a wonderful job of bringing Ms. Macomber’s characters of Cedar Cove to life in this second book of the series.
Ms. Macomber does a wonderful job of conveying how an argument can spiral out of control.
I do like the author’s comment on the fact that once couples become financially secure, they can drift apart – pulled by varying interest and demands - and lose that sense of being partners against the world.There is plenty of life going on in this little town: babies, secrets, arguments and romance.
A light easy book to read. Four stars only due to the fact that it was a little too much on the "romance novel" side for me. Good to read after a long involved read.
I love the way that you aren't just tied up with one heroine/hero.
You have several (just in case you aren't thrilled with one of their lives, turn the page and there's a new story line).
Starting off in the beginning, the book pretty much starts off where 16 Lighthouse Road left off.
You have most of the same characters as well to follow from the previous novel.
I loved the stories and interactions between all of the characters in the book.
I love how they live in this small town and everybody pretty much knows everybody and no one's business is a secret.
But a few days ago when I was between books I was feeling the need for something that was completely an escapist read, especially since I've got a Sanderson book going on audio right now.
This book ended kind of abruptly with more than one story line unfinished (view spoiler)[ Maryellen's pregnancy and her relationship with Jon is the one I really wanted to see a conclusion to.
(hide spoiler)] and that annoyed me a little, but it also drew me right into the next book, which I'm sure the author did by design.Review also posted at Writings of a Reader
This book reminds me of a reading soap opera. I read the first book, 16 Lighthouse Road and enjoyed it, but I wanted to know more about Grace and her family which lead me to read this novel. I had hoped that things would be cleared up about Dan and why he left, (view spoiler)[ but nope. I am as unclear as before. All I know is that Dan is dead. (hide spoiler)]Several story lines were continued & begun throughout this novel which keeps me curious, but the stories were not interesting enough t
I read the first book, 16 Lighthouse Road and enjoyed it, but I wanted to know more about Grace and her family which lead me to read this novel.
I had hoped that things would be cleared up about Dan and why he left, (view spoiler)[ but nope.
All I know is that Dan is dead.
(hide spoiler)]Several story lines were continued & begun throughout this novel which keeps me curious, but the stories were not interesting enough that I have to read the next one in the series right away.
This was an ok book, but there was so much still unresolved. In fact, looking at the major plot points, some of them progressed a little, but only one or two had any kind of closure. That's ok I guess, so that is what I rated the book :) 2.5 stars.
We do get some insight into why Maryellen is the way she is about her current situation and I could understand her a bit better.Jon and Maryellen's part felt a bit rushed at first, I didn't 'feel' the attraction between them and wasn't excited by the storyline for most of the book but towards the end I began to warm up to them.
this one I felt more emotion for than Maryellen and Jon at first, even though it was mostly annoyance at times.
hoping for more of them next time as well :)Not as good as the first book but still enjoyable in it's own way, would recommend.
I will read the next one in the series too, because this one leaves you hanging as well.I'm seeing a trend in these books that will probably make me stop reading after the next if it continues.What really bothers me is Macomber's portrayal of all the female characters.
It seems like every single female fights with herself over feelings for men and pushes men away, and they all appear to be naive and childish with their emotions.
I picked up this book after reading The Shop on Blossom Street, to see if I just really liked the author or just that series. It really wasn't my type of book. While there were somewhat interesting plots, I had a really hard time keeping track of the characters and their involvement in the stories. Most of the stories reminded me of Lifetime movies and soap operas. I can handle that type of story if there's something else keeping me involved, but this didn't really have that for me. I don't plan on reading the rest of this series.
Another reason why I gave this one 3 stars, is that this one reads a bit like filler since you don't find out the resolution with a lot of things in this one until book #3, "311 Pelican Court".
She also has managed to not shake the life out of her daughter Kelly who acts like a brat and her histrionics since her father has gone missing made me tired.
Besides Grace, we have her daughter Maryellen as the focus, her relationship with a man named Jon, Olivia, Jack, and Olivia's ex husband Stan, Olivia's daughter Justine and Seth, along with Jack's son Eric, and Rosie and Zach Cox with their two kids.

This book gives you so much from the beginning. It got a lot more suspense in this edition of her series with two mysteries that falls over Cedar Cove.
Olivia's husband Stan, who divorced her 16 years ago, is now having martial problems and wants Olivia back.
And her mother, Grace, is still grappling with the fact that her husband of 35 years simply walked out the door one day and did not return.I generally love these big cast of character stories with lots of intermingling between the plots and characters.
Also, I am disappointed that although this series seems to ostensibly be about a community, you get very little feel of the town itself.
The town should be a character but it isn't.Not loving it like I think I should.
I liked this second book, I was so mad at Dan and was figuring he either ran off or was dead.
The latter being what I was really starting to assume in the middle of book.
Then Rosie and Zach I could see both sides of what was going on.
So instead of him talking to her he would prod her into an argument which now as left them to a divorce that I don't think either of them really wanted but the damage was done and they could not see going back.
Wonderful Emotional read,its a keeper for me.This book showed up how relationships goes on rocky pat
Apparently nothing goes on in the town that is worthwhile except for all the women trying to hook men and get knocked up.
Even menopausal women like Olivia who is a judge with a law degree is whining about Jack the editor not calling her and honestly, it is just like a bunch of silly high school girls.
Olivia's daughter Justine marries a fisherman on a whim and is knocked up.
Both of Grace's daughters get knocked up (Kelly is married, MaryEllen is not), and even Jack's son who thought he was sterile has managed to knock up his girlfriend with twins.
I've read the first book in this series and always like to see how things continue on for the characters.
There were several storylines flowing at the same time and little reference to two main characters from the first book.
But ultimately, I felt like maybe the author hadn't decided yet which way she wanted things to go and thus basically left every single character hanging.....why not just write a big TO BE VERY MUCH CONTINUED at the end.
Yes, I'll be reading the next book but I was very disappointed in what I see as sitting on the fence writing.
I'm a fan of chick lit, but this is more of a romance, which really isn't a favorite genre for me. I didn't like this book as much as the first one in the series, but I liked it well enough. I got hooked on the show last year when I started watching it with my daughter, and I'm definitely invested in the characters at this point. I'm intrigued enough to want to know what happens next. So I'll keep reading the series. It's entertaining. Good beach material.
Serinin kalan elimdeki son 2 kitabını çookkkkkk sonra okurum diyerek bayrak kaldırıyorum:) Dullar kasabası desem yalan olmaz herhalde , mutlu olanlar bile bu sinerjiden etkilenip boşanmaya ya da ayrılmaya karar veriyor
O încântătoare carte care surprinde în paginile ei viața într-un mic orășel american de pe malul Atlanticului, Cedar Cove.
Toate poveștile cuprinse în carte sunt adevărate felii de viață, cu bune și cu rele, cu realizări și eșecuri, cu speranțe și incertitudini, și cu multă iubire.
Fiecare dintre noi se poate regăsi la un moment dat într-una sau în alta din situațiile descrise în carte, cu atât mai mult cu cât personajele au vârste diferite, între cei foarte tineri, la început de drum, până la cei maturi, de 40-50 de ani, și peste, care si-au găsit echilibrul interior, sau sunt frământați de nesiguranță și incertitudini în fața încercărilor vieții.
Și mai ales, este o carte despre miracolul unor noi șanse și noi începuturi.https://www.delicateseliterare.ro/spe...
Classic Macomber. I loved the plot elements that were both concluded and introduced, the strong characters, and the development of the series. I’m looking forward to reading the next one!
Picking up several of the loose threads left at the end of "16 Lighthouse Road", "204 Rosewood Lane" is the second book in Debbie Macomber's Cedar Cove series.
The book focuses mostly on Grace Sherman as she copes with the disappearance of her husband Dan and finally learns what happened to him.
The book also deals with Grace's best friend, Olivia, and her ongoing romance with newspaperman Jack Griffin, plus some surprising news from her ex-husband, Stan, and distressing news about her mother, Charlotte.
"204 Rosewood Lane" is another one of Macomber's nice, cozy stories.
This is the 2nd book in the Cedar Cove series If you are just starting the series, it's easy to tell the order of the books.
Each title is an address, & the first number tells you which book it is.
We also meet new characters.I love the twists & turns the author gives us, & I can't wait to find out what happens next.
When I finished reading the book, I could not wait to pick up the next one to start reading right away.
So, before I read book number 3, I'll first read the 2nd book in the Blossom Street series, another wonderful series.
I want to know what is happening in their lives.
They persevere in good times and in bad which makes me feel like I can be a stronger person.
I can’t wait to start the third book in this series to find out what happens next.What I Liked: The Character development, their strength and the sense of community and friendship and family that is woven throughout the entire bookI like that tough subjects like abortion, cancer, single parenthood are all tackled in a good way – in way that shows that they can be survived and overcome.What you Disliked:The amount of characters.
Underneath Grace's demure exterior, is a spine of steel that quickly surfaces when she must face the strange and sudden disappearance of her husband, Dan. So, Cedar Cove bands together around one of its own, and Grace's family and friends bring great comfort to her during such a difficult time.
However, will Grace's love, devotion, and dedication to her family in the face of such a personal tragedy, ultimately prove sufficient to keep them all together?I must say that I haven't read that many books by Debbie Macomber before.
After enjoying the first book in the Cedar Cove series, I expected to like this one too.
For example, one character arranges dinner with another, and the reader is anticipating that scene with interest.
However on the next page, that character is having a coffee at home thinking about the dinner that happened three weeks ago...
And I like some of the characters, namely Grace and Jack, who are both likeable but more complex and have more depth than many others.I am hoping the writing improves in the next book, or I won't be finishing the entire series.
In the next installment of the Cedar Cove series, we are introduced to Rosie and Zach Cox. Zach is extremely frustrated that Rosie spends more time volunteering and barely has time to cook a meal.
She’s convinced he left her and her daughters for another woman, so she decides it’s time for her to move on as well.
Grace’s daughter, Maryellen, has sworn off men as a result to a short-lived marriage.
Maryellen feels men are not to be trusted and spends her time avoiding the dating scene and engrossed in her work.
204 Rosewood Lane continues to interweave the lives of the residents of Cedar Cove.
it's to be continued for one of the storylines in the book.
Some characters from the first book are featured in this book, some disappear off the radar.
I hated the Cox family in this book and unfortunately, they are to be featured in the next book.
If I was just reading one at a time, I'd quit right here, but seeing as I own the entire series (10 books at this point but she's planning on writing more) I'm committed to the series now.
For a romance series, this series has way too much divorce in it for my tastes.
