https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/159296.Eleanor_of_Aquitaine_and_the_Four_Kings
At the time of Kelly's writing history was still, as it had been for centuries, the matter of a well-crafted narrative backed up by sound research.
And perhaps my familiarity with newer histories led me to expect something an historian from 50 years ago could not possibly provide - what the actual woman's life would have looked like, day-in and day-out, how she must have understood her own role vis-à-vis Louis or Henry or her sons, the forces that crafted her own ambitions, which were considerable.
I should not, I suppose, expect an historian of Kelly's era to fix her lens too firmly on Eleanor who, as a woman, would not have been considered overly important to the history of European nation-building, the primary focus of traditional history.
Eleanor, who began as a young Duchess of Aquitaine and Countess of Poitou and who was the richest marriage prize in all of Europe, was known, among other accomplishments, for leading 400 women to Jerusalem on the Second Crusade as Queen of France during her marriage to Louis VII (Capet) and for bearing two kings, John "Lackland" (of Magna Carta fame) and the heroic and well-loved King Richard Coeur-de-Lion, her eldest and favorite son, while Queen of England during her marriage to Henry II (Plantagenet).
Life was not alway easy for a Queen: Eleanor conspired with her sons to revolt against her husband, for which she was imprisoned for 16 years until Henry's death.
I've been fascinated by Eleanor - Alianor, in her own time - for a long while now and despite it's age, this book added more to my knowledge of this amazing woman than I'd have guessed possible.
I've read nearly every book available about Queen Eleanor, yet her story never ceases to amaze me.
I will say this is not the book I'd start with for those who know nothing about Eleanor.
Don't let the publication date trick you into thinking it's irrelevant; it's wonderfully written and really brings a remarkable woman to life.
She died in 1204 at the age of 82, having outlived eight of her ten children, the most famous of whom were Richard the Lion Hearted and King John of Magna Carta fame.
The "four kings" were Louis VII of France (she was duchess of the vast Aquitaine area) whom she married when she was 15, a marriage designed to cement France Aquitaine, Henry II of England whom she hastily married after her marriage to Louis was annulled, her son, Richard who was to die at age 42, and finally, the other son, the erratic John.
You will read the dramas behind Eleanor's lion in winter (Henry II); Thomas Becket's murder in the cathedral(by Eleanor's husband); Robin Hood, Ivanhoe, and the ransom of Eleanor's son (Richard Lion Heart); the Arthurian legends at Eleanor's Courts of Love (led by her daughter, Marie de Champlain); and the Amazon Crusader (Eleanor) with King Louis in the Holy Lands.
Eleanor had intimate relationships with battling Popes, the Holy Roman Emperor, and the Four Kings (two husbands, two sons).
Their vengeful hatreds and power struggles - with each other and King Philip of France (her ex-husband's son)- tumble to a breathtaking climax after 387 pages.
Eleanor was a 12th century French noblewoman who inherited in her own right the duchy of the Acquitaine, a large province on the Atlantic coast.
Her four kings?
There was her first husband, Louis VII, King of France; then after their annulment, her second husband, Henry, Duke of Anjoy, who became King Henry II of England.
Then two of her four sons ascended the throne: Richard I, King of England, and John, his successor.
So Eleanor was at the heart of the levers of poweer in western Europe for most of her long life.
This is her story, one of a woman fighting to assert her rights in medieval times.
One of the other reviewers mentioned that she only made it to page 271 and discontinued reading this book because there really wasn't much about Eleanor.
(The title is misleading.) And I have to agree.
The title makes it sound like this book is about Eleanor but in actuality it is more about the times than it is about Eleanor.
However, I did complete reading it mainly because every book I read about this time period adds more detail and more flavor to inform my understanding of this period in history.
I really liked this book.
Amy Kelly wrote so dramatically about Eleanor and her life.
I read in tandem with Sharon Kay Penman's books on Henry II and Richard I.
It was good to recap everything that happened with Eleanor of Aquitaine and the Four Kings.
T^he saddest chapter was the next to the last when she covered all the things John did to lose his European empire.
I was glad Eleanor died before the full realization hit her that her kingdom was gone.
She was quite a lady and her life was very interesting.
I feel she left a great legacy to the world.
The best biography on Eleanor of Aquitaine which is descriptive and vivid with details not just about this fascinating woman, duchess, countess and twice times queen, but also of her contemporaries. Laden with facts, wonderfully researched and a myriad of details written in such a way you literally are trabsported back to the twelfth century and start of the following century. Eleabor of Aquitaine and the Four Kings is a Must-Read for everyone.
While an older book, this biography of Eleanor is both riveting and rollicking. Eleanor is not always framed in soft lighting by the author, who is well-given to point out Eleanor's shortcomings and flaws, but paints a dramatic portrait of a woman ahead of her time (a little cliche, I know) that influenced the power politics and course of two nations during the turbulent early Middle Ages. While not having the same modern prose style of Allison Weir, this is still a worthwhile read.
Wonderfully researched and meticulously presented. Sadly, I found it extraordinarily difficult to read given the author's archaic phrasing and often obscure vocabulary. I finally discovered why I was having such a problem. The book was published in 1950. Still, after all these years, Kelly's book is regularly cited as a leading source on Eleanor.
Who knew? One of the most fascinating, gifted, powerful woman ever--wife to two kings, one of France and one of England, and mother to two of England. Again, a book of the middle ages and a whole new realm of interest for me...
I forced myself to finish this book after two months of false starts. It is not an easy book to read. Kelly's writing style gets overly florid at times, and this gets in the way of narrative and comprehension.
I never knew anything about Eleanor of Aquitaine or her role in the crusades. Fascinating read about the mother of Richard the Lionheart and John, signer of the Magna Carta. I really enjoyed this, but it is slow. Perfect bedtime reading.
I was directed toward this book by a professor when I was struggling to come up with a theme for a term paper. I'd never heard of Eleanor until then, but I was hooked. An excellent introduction to that era, and a remarkable woman far ahead of her time.
When I read novels about Eleanor of Aquitaine, the person I think of is the Eleanor portrayed here.
A classic recount of the biography of Eleanor. The erudite poetic-prose style is of an era worth reading, though you might need to re-read and get out a dictionary of old terms.
I didn't finish this book. I was bored to death. She is one of the most fascinating women in history and I wanted to poke my eyes out. There must be a better book about her!
Thus Eleanor, only 15 was betrothed to king Louis of France who had been raised to assume an ecclesiastical position in deference to his older brother who also died unexpectedly.
Henry did not punish his sons but he put Eleanor under arrest, kept in a castle under guard and not allowed to venture out on her own.Meanwhile Louis died and his son Phillip became King and a more formidable adversary to Henry.
She has exhaustively researched her subject and seems to have included nearly every fact, poetic reference, and rumor available, with the possible exception of Eleanor’s court rulings when she was sitting in judgement in some court as a stand-in for her second husband, Henry II of England or her son, Richard I (Coeur-de-Lion), and she has even speculated a little regarding Eleanor’s possible sentiments at certain periods of her life, especially during her early years when she was first married to Louis VII of France, but the problem appears to be that there are few actual direct facts recorded about Eleanor, and much of what we know about her is recorded incidentally to the lives of her husbands and sons.
It is dense with information, it requires concentration and unfortunately, my reading time these days has been scarce and mostly made up of small lapses spent in waiting rooms, travels or a few minutes before falling asleep at night...
And although she makes no attempt to fictionize, the book demands concentration and the font is small, I really had a hard time putting it down.
I read this book through Bookcrossing (thank you aneca!) so I will make it travel again, but I am getting a copy for my personal collection and I would love to get a translation into Portuguese, but haven't found any so far.
I loved this book.
Let me say it again - I loved this book.
Every moment of this book IS fascinating.
You will begin to wonder if you are worthy of Amy Kelly's writing, and you will be correct to wonder.
Do not underestimate Amy Kelly.
You will learn about Richard the Lion Hearted, Heloise and Abelard, and finally about effigies.
So by all means read this book.
It is inspiring and every bit as good as Game of Thrones.
I figured that Eleanor of Aquitaine is one of those historical figures that I seem to hear about often enough but I didn't really know much about her.
This book is very dense, filled with much historical fact, and yet it's better than any soap opera, I am sure!
She was the mother of King Richard and King John (from the Robin Hood legend ...
and while these kings did exist, Robin Hood did not).
And, as usual, many of the figures in the book have the same name, but that cannot be helped!So ...
This is probably the best written of the Eleanor biographies, dating from the fifties and published by Harvard. It is Amy Kelly's life work: she toiled at it for ages and never wrote another book. The current fashion in medieval studies would frown on the emphasis on Eleanor and her daughter's supposed participation in Courts of Love. But this book gives a taste of what the twelfth century must have been like, and will perhaps make readers want to know more. My book group is reading Alison Weir's bio, and finding it "dry." Kelly's book is anything but.
This was a very informative biography of Eleanor of Aquitaine, who ruled in France and England during the 12th Century, thanks to two marriages. She also bore two kings of England, Richard-the-Lionhearted, and King John. I don't believe I've ever read the facts behind these two legendary kings, nor had I ever read anything of Eleanor. I appreciated the research that so obviously went into this book, and I also appreciated the readable style.This book has caused me to become more interested in the Middle Ages.
Good Book! Rich in backgorund of the players, the times and as to why Eleanor was the bright, adventurious, power player she was. Also insightful into the Crusades and a myth breaker of the Holy Quest and good Richard. Truly an pre-read for Lion in the Winter. Recommended for those into the middle ages and powerful people.
an excellent history, but the writing style is somewhat florid and hard to read. A stronger editor might have helped her clean up the styele. I knew nothing about this queen and her husbands & sons other than what I saw in the movies "Lion in Winter" and "Becket." Their lives were certainly more interesting and complicated than the movies had lead me to believe.
It is amazing what you can find at a great used bookstore. In this case "The Book House" www.bookhousestl.com. This appears to be a wonderfully researched history, from the Harvard University Press, of a remarkable 12th century queen. Crusades, Thomas Becket, Henry the II, Richard the Lion Heart and Magna Carta famed John are all a part of this amazing woman's life.
This story about Eleanor and her kings can be a bit rough going at times. Packed with details and wandering hither and yon - as Eleanor did - I occasionally had to re-read a page or two to remember where I was. But what a stunning cast of people, what a fascinating and complicated time, and what a fine work by Kelly.
I was glad that I had read Sharon Kay Penman's books prior to reading Kelly's Eleanor of Aquitaine.... Penman's novels fleshed out the characters and locations. With Penman's background info I found Kelly's non-fiction interesting and well worth reading although it required a bit of tenacity. A suggestion when reading this book...keep a dictionary handy.
