https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13214.I_Know_Why_the_Caged_Bird_Sings
I must confess I've read precious little Angelou in my time, but I'll never forget the day she tipped me $20.It was some random gray day in Marquette, Michigan, must've been the winter of '00, and I was washing dishes as usual at the downtown Landmark Inn. Someone tapped me on the shoulder and said, "hey, there's a VIP coming in, put on your bellboy hat and head out front." I didn't put on my bellboy hat because I didn't have one — just the same dirty, drenched apron I wore every day in that year or two between high school and college, at least whenever I wasn't sitting in my shitty little apartment, or wasting time and brain cells someplace else.Stepping out into the sub-zero winds, I saw before me the fanciest tour bus I'd ever seen in my whole entire life.
Before she won her multitudes of awards and honors, Maya was raised in rural Stamps, Arkansas by her grandmother and uncle during the depression.
Born Marguerite Johnson and often called Ritie, Maya and her older brother Bailey were taken to live with their grandmother at young ages following their parents' divorce.
Even though the south was still in the throes of Jim Crow and Stamps was at the forefront of segregation, young Maya appeared to enjoy a loving childhood.
She and Bailey continued to live with their grandmother until they had advanced beyond what the education system offered them in the segregated south.
It was required reading for a University course I took on Adolescent Literature.This book has been placed on banned book lists by needlessly close-minded people for it's real life content.The book tastefully addresses issues of molestation, rape, racism.
In fact, earlier generations could have likely benefited from a little more open discussion about such matters.In any regard, the book is not about these issues, it simply addresses them within the context, which is Maya Angelou's early life from somewhere around age 6 up to about 17 or 18 I believe.
Just be sure to discuss it's content with them......like a parent should anyway.
My mother could never really speak to me about the abuse she suffered as a little girl - the closest we came to talking about her experiences occurred when we read this painful and important book together.
I imagine that Maya's book has allowed countless women who have suffered similar horrors an opportunity to know they will never be alone in their pain.
And perhaps, like my mother, an opportunity to begin to heal by sharing their story with a loved one.RIP, Maya.
Your words have made this planet a better place.
If only the rest of us could be half as decent as you.
Caged BirdA free bird leapson the back of the windand floats downstreamtill the current endsand dips his wingin the orange sun raysand dares to claim the sky.But a bird that stalksdown his narrow cagecan seldom see throughhis bars of ragehis wings are clipped andhis feet are tiedso he opens his throat to sing.The caged bird singswith a fearful trillof things unknownbut longed for stilland his tune is heardon the distant hillfor the caged birdsings of freedom. The above poem by Maya Angelou (not
However, this material comfort was offset by the fact that they were always the hated 'other' - the 'whitefolk' who lived apart (almost a mythical race, in Maya's young mind) were powerful and whimsical gods who could visit death and destruction any time on any black man or woman.
Even the 'powhitetrash', the drifters and squatters who had the fortune to be born into the Anglo-Saxon race, could insult even the propertied black people with impunity.When she was eight years old, Maya's father took her brother and herself to their mother, Vivian Baxter, in St. Louis.
She said "Mister, mister, I know why the caged bird sings!"I looked up from reading the financial news.
"But mister, mister, the caged bird sings and I know why!
I heaved a sigh, put down the paper and said:"Alright little one, tell me all about that bird of yours."So she started talking.
The girl then sang:The miserable little encounter had nothing to do with me, the me of me, any more than it had to do with that silly clerk.
But how about that bird, little girl?
During a court case,“The judge had really made a gaffe calling a Negro woman ‘Mrs’”because, of course, a white person’s perception was that a black person did not deserve the status of respect.The book seems to escalate until the reader feels that something has to give.The author reflects that it was perhaps one instance of profound prejudice, which severely affected her brother emotionally, which led to their being sent away from Arkansas.
This is my personal reaction to the book, and I support your right to make your own choices about what you read, too.I read this book because my teenage son was going to be required to read it in his English class at school.
But I believe our teenage children can understand that terrible things like this happen, without needing to be dragged through the muck of the sordid details.
In my son's advanced English class, this book was one of six main texts.
The teachers did say that our son could choose to read a different book.
This was a wonderfully written beginning to Ms. Angelou's six volume autobiography.
I love that she portrays herself with her anger alongside her compassion and speaks honestly about sexual abuse, abandonment, poverty, race relations, jealousy, desire, perseverance and a deep and uncompromising individuality.
I will leave you with one of her painful rants about her race and the race of others: "It was awful to be Negro and have no control over my life.
All of us." I look forward to reading the second volume at some point.
Rest in peace Ms. Angelou and bless you for your contributions to poetry and race relations.
I'm quite ashamed that it's taken me this long to read this book. Maya Angelou is so inspirational to many people so reading about her childhood and adolescence was really special. I found her autobiography tragic and also hopeful at the same time. Things have changed a lot since Angelou's childhood, such as segregation, and colourism in the black community (to an extent). The fact that she went through that period of history and is alive to see the first Black president in US history is just wonderful.
Audiobook...read by Maya Angelou I wasn’t a passionate reader in High School- -the handful of books I did read (“Valley of The Dolls”, “The Catcher in the Rye”, “Franny and Zooey”, “The Handmaid’s Tale”, and “I Know Why Bird Caged Sings”,), were each books I ‘do’ remember reading that stayed with me all these years.
Of course we always picked up new things when we read or listen to a book again....And something that really stood out for me this time around was that Deuteronomy was Maya’s favorite book in the Bible.
Thanks, Suzy.., for the Audiobook ‘inspiration’!Maya’s voice was like having grandma read a bedtime story ...
أدركت بعد ذلك، بأننا إن كنا جادين في نبذ العنصرية فعلينا في البداية أن نتوقف عن استخدام التعابير اللغوية المتحيزة التي تنسب كل ما هو سيء إلى اللون الأسود، ومن ثم علينا ألا نشعر بالحرج من استخدام كلمة "الأسود" لوصف الأشخاص السود.السواد ليس عيبًا بل هو مجرد لون آخر، وإنما العيب أن نعتقد بأنه لون أقل من بقية الألوان.شاهدت قبل فترة فيلمًا وثائقيًا عن الكنائس في إفريقيا، واستغربت أن المسيح في التماثيل والصور التي تملأ الكنائس أسود اللون، ولكنني عندما أفكر في الأمر مليًا، أجدني مقتنعًا بأن المسيح لم يكن له أن يكون إلا أسودًا.
When describing her excitement over a new dress for church, Marguerite notes “I was going to look like one of the sweet little white girls who were everybody’s dream of what was right with the world”, and later …”I thought that if she was planning to marry our father she must have been horrified to find herself with a nearly six-foot prospective stepdaughter who was not even pretty.”I especially enjoyed Maya’s descriptions of her love for books.
Perfect. A Masterpiece.Hype Lit Bookclub.Around the Year In 52 Books: A book inspired by real events.2018 Popsugar Reading Challenge: A book with an animal in the title.
Honest story, inspiring.Childhood memories, living in Arkansas with grandmother, later in St. Louis with mother. Sexual abuse when she was eight years old. Brother Bailey, there love and support, hopes for the future. Back to San Francisco with mother, questioning herself about her sexuality. She was the first African-American to be hired to work on the the transportation department at the age of seventeen.
Maya Angelou ends her story of her youth with the birth of her son and that is a fitting ending for with a child comes an adult's responsibilities; although, she was only a teenager when she had him and had only had one very hasty and unsatisfying, almost impersonal, sexual experience to gain that son.
Since her mother was out working a lot, Mr. Freeman sexually assaulted her and eventually raped her.
She turns to school and the power of words when nudged in that direction by a few gentle angels she meets along the way, teachers and good neighbors who bring light to the darkness.
Read along with a friend. Enjoyed it but it was another coming of age story which I have read a lot recently. Got a little boring for me at times. Loved the writing but probs wont pick up the next couple of books.
That connection I didn't really see; Maggie and Tom Tulliver's relationship is too fractured and damaged by growing up, in a way that Maya and Bailey's was not.I understand that this is one of those books that has caused controversy when taught in school's in America.
There are times in relation to racism when I think (and hope) that is the case.
But I do think we have to treat books like this as living breathing things; not as historical documents about a foreign past.
The free bird thinks of another breezeand the trade winds soft through the sighing treesand the fat worms waiting on a dawn-bright lawnand he names the sky his own.*Maya Angelou eloquently articulated how the painful struggles and scattered happy experiences of growing up in the South had a significant role in the shaping of the gifted, outspoken, determined, inspirational person she became.The free bird leapson the back of the windand floats downstreamtill the current endsand dips his wingsin the orange sun raysand dares to claim the sky.*I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings is the first in the magnificent six-volume autobiography of Maya Angelou (April 1928 - May 2014): a poet, author, civil rights activist, professor, feminist.
The book drew me in at the very beginning because of the talent Angelou has with language, scenery, and loading the moment with emotion.
(SPOILER ALERT)When Maya turned three, she and her brother, Bailey, went to live with her grandmother in Arkansas because of her mother’s divorce.
When Maya was eight and Bailey nine, they went to live with their mother in California.
The children were placed in a ping-pong game of having to move to different places and learn to adjust throughout their difficult circumstances.
If discussed properly, the book would provide a great learning experience for both student and teacher as discovery occurs.
The first time I heard of Maya Angelou was in middle school.
I haven't read much poetry in my life, but Maya Angelou held a special place in my soul since middle school.
Why not read more about this woman who influenced the world?I gave this autobiography five stars because I felt like I was in her shoes.
I could walk around her Momma's store, or felt the hate of the white populous.
I felt deeply sadden and electrified while I read her life story.
How do you feel about Maya Angelou?
Education of this nature should always have a purpose.Knowledge just for the sake of knowledge is only good if you are a contestant on a game show.Reading this book influenced me in two ways: it made me more committed to choose age-appropriate materials for my children AND to empower my children to handle inappropriate situations.We talk a lot about how private parts of your body are ONLY for you and if anyone asks to see them or touches them you tell your parents.
So this is awkward. You start a book that everyone knows so very well. The book is also written on this immensely important topic – rather, several of them. And as you trawl and trawl through it, you only come to realize that  it's murdering you with how uninteresting it is to you.  (if the images down load, read this post on my blog)Suuuure don't feel good. Hey, I've actually written a whole post about how to deal with this situation. So now I'll be following my own advice and  still sharing th
The book is also written on this immensely important topic – rather, several of them.
this is an important book for black people's history and culture 
I won't argue with the fact that this book deals with a lot of important things.
I know that a lot of people really love Maya Angelou's writing, but for some reason all it did for me was making me distracted.
I was baffled, because usually when it comes to topics like these, I gobble the book up.
I just don't see myself reading another 5 books, working through them the way I had to plow through this one.So...
In this touching and tragic coming-of-age autobiography, Maya Angelou lays it all out there for everyone to see her challenging roller coaster of a life from age 3-16.
While descriptively graphic in detail, the memoir also exhibits bits of humor in the narrative.
I found Maya to be a kind, intelligent and courageous young girl despite her naïveté, and very fortunate to have a loving grandmother (Momma) and brother.
Momma really was a tough ole bird too; the outcome of her encounter with Dentist Lincoln is hysterical.
(both Maya's imaginary version and what actually occurred)Perhaps not a novel for all ages, but definitely a memorable classic.
What can I even say? Maya Angelou was an incredible woman and this was such a poignant and moving window into the world of the difficulties that come with growing up as a black woman in the south. Maya underwent unspeakable horrors, yet found the strength she needed to overcome each and every one of them. <3 There were a few little essays here and there that I wasn't entirely sure "fit" the memoir as a whole, but for the most part, I was completely enraptured by her words.
There was (and still is) a whole world of people with little conception of what southern, rural black people went through before and during the civil rights movement (and while I’ve read more on this topic than some, I would include myself in that number), so seeing that time and place reflected here has undeniably been extremely valuable for many—both those who lived it and those who did not.
Some of the writing was beautiful and vivid, with a strong sense of place and character, but some was a little more rough and choppy, and the episodic nature of the book didn’t work particularly well, in my opinion.
Hmm, congratulations to Ms. Angelou on braving struggles most people wouldn't have survived.
As she wrote, "The fact that the adult American Negro female emerges a formidable character is often met with amazement, distaste and even belligerence.
I've seen racial attacks often, living in a country caught in puberty and again, Ms. Angelou did good for herself - but the fact remains that this was not a good "book." Plot?
Conceded it's an autobiography, but certainly a life describing commonplace church meetings for 20 pages in a go is hardly worth recording.
I read this book for the Goodreads' book club Diversity in All Forms. If you would like to participate in the discussion here is the link: https://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/...This book is the first autobiography of Maya Angelou. Maya lived with her grandmother in a small Southern town. She had a lot of tough and terrible experiences at a young age. She was raped at eight years old by her mom's boyfriend and dealt with extreme discrimination. This book was an eye-opener and so honest. I look forward to reading a book by her every month for many more months.
Now that I've researched, read, and reviewed a number of banned and challenged books, I'm no longer surprised that writing about sex, particularly from a young woman's point of view, whips up fear and suppression.
And there's plenty of sex in Maya Angelou's childhood memoir, starting with her rape, at the age of 9, by her mother's live-in boyfriend, continuing with her description of her mother's life as a prostitute, her adventures in Mexico while her father visits a whorehouse, her teen-aged fear of being a lesbian, and her first self-initiated sexual encounter and subsequent pregnancy at the age of 16.
It was a poor, segregated community.“In Stamps the segregation was so complete that most Black children didn't really, absolutely know what whites looked like.
It’s a long time since the Civil War, but it might as well have been yesterday, considering the terror blacks faced whenever they did have to deal with white people.
