https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/348.The_Door_Into_Summer
I probably read it first when I was in high school or just after.
Some I didn't care for, some I liked and some I loved.Many people place this in his so called "teen reads" but there is some question about that due to some of the subject matter.
Among some there's a bit of, consternation concerning the "final love interest" in the book.Just try it yourself and decide for yourself.Daniel Boone Davis (many of Heinlein's protagonists have names hearkening back to American history) is a master engineer and inventor...and that's what he wants to do.
Actually, Davis (and others) are thinly disguised Heinlein: fiercely individualist, libertarian, technically savvy, hard working yet innovative, resourceful, wise cracking, and with a horn dog libido that would make a porn star blush.
I wonder if Door Into Summer used some of the same notes and ideas that would later surface in Time Enough for Love?
Door into Summer may be classified as a transitional book between the earlier juvenile works and his middle works (his apex, his high water mark) and then to the weird, time traveling and lusty later books.
I really had no issues with "The Door Into Summer", and Heinlein is still one of my favorite SF masters after this.I enjoy books that feature engineers as protagonists, and here we have one proto-geek singlehandedly inventing robotics in the 50's and failing rather spectacularly in the human relations department.
Later on, there's some time travel thrown in and some cryogenics, giving us a glimpse of what the year 2000 would look like to a 1950 citizen.
It's interesting to note how we surpassed some of Heinlein expectations in the field of artificial intelligence and miniaturization, and still didn't invent regenerating teeth, disposable shirts or beard removal cream.
Well after many thousands of ratings this book is averaging 4 stars so my rating will make no difference at all.
I first read this back in the late 70s, and like most of Heinlein's early and middle work I really enjoyed it then and again now.
I just found them very introspective and self indulgent, and much as I enjoy Heinlein books I think I gave up after fighting my way through "Time Enough For Love".
I don't think I've read anything written after that.
The story of time travel by various means was excellent.
Some of Heinlein's predictions are amazing, and some are way off the mark.
It is fairly predictable, but that didn't detract from my enjoyment of the story at all.
It was fun, and it was refreshing to read such innocent prose.Although some people might be offended, there was some narrative that would be considered non-PC these days, but was just part of life in the 'fifties.
I would have been far more satisfied with the explosive ending which could so easily have been there.Having said that, I would strongly recommend this book to all lovers of time travel and sci-fi books.
The cat I’m talking about is an important character, not in any futuristic genetically altered pet sense of the world, he just happens to be a side kick of our protagonist.
Actually yes.It is interesting that he wants this relationship to happen when they’re about the same age.
As I said, the relationship between Dan and Ricky can be read in a very sweet light (or in a slightly creepy one) …or it can be just ignored, if that isn’t your thing.
The Door into Summer is a very good SF novel that is mostly about adventure, time travel, engineering, future predictions, action, being badass and all those things we love about Heinlein.
And Dan Davis' engineering vision of rescuing women from the drudgery of housework is a little dated, to be sure.However, I consider these to be the faults of a novel written in the 1950's.
It is important to note that there are no overtly pedophilic suggestions in this book, unless the reader supplies them (I'm sure there are those who will disagree)When it comes down to it, Dan's romantic feelings towards Ricki are not directed at her juvenile self but at the woman he imagines she will become.
Somewhat unusually for Heinlein, this is a cute, fun book which doesn't try to ladle a bunch of right-wing ideology down your throat, or O.D. you on dubious sex. There's some time travel, a sympathetic main character, a Bad Girl, and a cat who steals the show every time he appears on stage. He even gets the title: the reference is to his endearing habit, during winter months, of making the hero open each door in the house in turn, just in case one of them happens to lead into summer...
It's not constant and overpowering; it's just striking.Each of those would be flaws I wouldn't mind having to overlook for the sake of the time travel story, which is largely entertaining, but Heinlein completely undermines any satisfaction that could come from it by having the protagonist and narrator, Dan Davis, eagerly find a way (via the rampant cryogenics of imaginary 1970) to marry in 2000 the step-daughter of his business partner, a girl who, as a child called him "Uncle Danny." He'd known her since she was a toddler or something (in 1970, she's nine and he's [always] thirty), and there's talk early in the book about how she had a crush on him and wanted to marry him when she grew up, but it's just some misplaced childhood crush and, of course, nothing he actually reciprocates.
The idea of traveling into the future via 'cold sleep' was a pretty popular until sometime in the 70's, but cutting edge at this time, I think.
Heinlein's discussion of this tech timing over the course of the book is very practical & interesting.
Not a bad reason, if incorrect, for getting off the gold standard & he had the timing pretty close.The overall story was a pretty good one of love & betrayal.
Time travel type: Travel to the past via machine and travel to the future via cryogenics.Likes: Pete, the cat ... and robots.Dislikes: All the characters except the cat ... and robots.Points of Particular Boredom: Business talk and the hero's pompous over-confidence in himself.Plot summary: Why bother?
I first read this many years ago—probably about the time in which it is set: it was published in 1957 (just before I was born) but most of the story is set in 1970 and the rest in 2000/2001.  The only thing that really stayed in my memory was the reason for the title.    Dan Davis once lived in Connecticut in a house with twelve doors to the outside. In Winter, his cat Pete (Petronius the Arbiter) would make him open every door, looking for the one that led to Summer. Pete's not present for th
"For my money Chuck was the only real engineer there; the rest were overeducated slipstick mechanics."  Looking back from 60 years into Heinlein's future, it's hard to imagine that anyone would have missed the fact that "slipsticks" (slide rules) would be non-existent in 2000, and were on their way out in the 70s (I learned to use a slide rule in the early 70s, bought a beautiful one in 1977—at a huge discount—and have probably not seen one for sale since).
Heinlein goes into great detail describing "Drafting Dan"—a way to automate drafting, so that an engineer can design without hunching over a drafting table.
It’s the story of Daniel Davis, a hard-working engineer in 1970 who invents a wonderful robot vacuum cleaner named Hired Girl (not at all sexist, right?), but has more ambitious plans for an all-purpose household robot called Flexible Frank.
Indeed I did, for the most charming figure in the book is a tomcat named Petronius the Arbiter (Pete for short), and he really steals the show.
Well, when you’re the author you can make anything happen, didn’t you know?So lurking under the surface of this otherwise charming and very cleverly-constructed time-travel story, we have yet another subtext of creepy wish fulfillment.
I liked it far less than my previous RAH reads of The Moon is a Harsh Mistress, Starship Troopers, or even Stranger in a Strange Land.The story - silly technician looses his garage corporation predictably to greedy woman and former business partner - wasn't very good with all that implausible back and forth through time and hibernated sleep.
The difference is, this time I'm certain that the "love story" in this book is between narrator Dan and his cat, Pete, and definitely not between Dan and (view spoiler)[Frederica/Ricky (because there's a good reason why Ricky rhymes with squicky) (hide spoiler)].
The devotion and concern that Dan shows for his cat across time and distance is very touching, and is what really makes this whole book.
But in a nutshell, this held up much better as a reread than I was afraid it might, and I recommend it if you enjoy science fiction and/or books with a strong undercurrent of cat love.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Talking a Lot About Cats: "A Door Into Summer" by Robert A. Heinlein(Original Review, 1980-07-28)Probably the biggest role for a cat outside of Norton is in Heinlein's A DOOR INTO SUMMER --- the hero talks more to his cat than he does to the woman he ends up marrying.[KK: That doesn't surprise me; Heinlein seems to hate all human females over the age of 12.
It is told first person perspective and this makes things difficult for the narrative part but better for the introspective one.There are no discussions of time travel issues or paradoxes to be solved, still the book is enjoyable, but if you want science fiction with any depth or emotional resonance, don't expect to find it here, with the exception that he loves the world of the future but dreams of his friends from the past.
The future holds things Dan has never dreamed of, but it also holds a really strange past for him— when he wakes up in 2000, much has changed...some of these changes are good.
Cuando leo una novela de la edad de oro de la ciencia ficción, suelo verla de forma crítica, normalmente están muy bien escritas (con una prosa más elaborada que las actuales), pero casi siempre contienen elementos anacrónicos, cosas que a un escritor actual no se le ocurrirían porque simplemente el tiempo ha hecho que ciertas ideas resulten absurdas y sin sentido.No voy a negar que con este libro me pasa también, pero la cuestión es que el optimismo y la ingenuidad que desprende hace que le perdone casi todo.
La ingenuidad de aquellos años 50 hace que tengamos una historia feliz, luminosa y alegre, con mucho sentido del humor.
A very fast paced story line with drama for days.
'The Door Into Summer' was written in 1957 with the plots story based between 1970 - 2001.
The main character Dan Davis is extremely well written, charismatic, smart, wise and quick witted, making him very enjoyable to read.Ps: I'm not a 'cat person' though I want to give a shout out to 'Petronius the Arbiter' aka Pete who's large personality has given me a new found respect for cats.
I love Dan and Petes relationship, it is a beautifully written friendship which for me is the highlight of this book.
Това обаче, което прави от книгата роман, който завинаги ще пазя в сърцето си, е изключително оригиналната и стегната метафора, залегнала зад заглавието.
Тя и рамкира произведението, укротява страниците и им придава една друга мъдрост и меланхолия, които обикновено са присъщи на Бредбъри, примерно."Врата към лятото" е изключителен литературен образ - от онези, които ме карат да скърцам със зъби, че не съм измислил аз и че може би никога няма да съм в състояние да сътворя по подобен начин.
Пестеливият му начин на употреба говори за абсолютната концепция, зад която е застанал Хайнлайн, но също и за невероятното му писателско умение да внуши тъкмо каквото иска по най-добрия начин.
ყველაფერს რომ თავი დავანებოთ, ამ წიგნმა საბოლოოდ შემაყვარა კატები.
The protagonist ends up travelling 30 years into his future by means of a cryogenic sleep to wake up in the year 2000.
Reading this book in the year 2015 gives one quite a different perspective than one would have had reading it when it first came out.
This is an optimistic book.
The author envisaged humanity being more technologically advanced that we actually were both in the year 2000 and even the year 1970.
More importantly though it is optimistic in a way that reflects the time in which it was written and in a way that is deeply unfashionable now.
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
A long time favorite book, the narration really brought it to life!
La narración es en primera persona, y enseguida que empieza uno a leer, te pasa el tiempo volando, es una lectura ágil y no muy rebuscada ( primero por su variación de temática dentro de la misma novela: drama, un poco de acción, film noir, viajes al futuro y al pasado, romance..y segundo, porqué las partes más técnicas no se hacen pesadas en sus descripciones; Heinlein sabe muy bien simplificar y acortar explicaciones para no aburrir).
(hide spoiler)]Aunque claro, si piensas que irte al futuro va a mejorar tu vida , podrias llevarte una tremenda sorpresa.SPOILERSDetalles interesantes: Siendo 1970 en la novela, se menciona que han pasado por la Guerra de las Seis Semanas (?), donde los norteamericanos han triunfado mayormente con armas atómicas y el uso de reservas de tropas con Sueño Frio (criogenia) y la Droga Zombie , que es un suero de la verdad que en realidad es un suero-hace-esclavos que deja sin voluntad.La Muchacha de Servicio el robot que inventa Davis, hace recordar a roomba la aspiradora robótica que salió en 2002En 2001 usan tarjetas-cheques bancarias con un 'código' para sacar dinero.
I started this book and it was hitting all the right notes for me - protagonist with a quirky, strong, distinct voice and slightly wacky approximation of 'how the future works' -- there is one really fun line where he basically approximates reading on a kindle.That said despite acknowledging this is an older book I can't begin to forgive the treatment of women in it.
Despite my love of the narrative voice, I think this type of novel is both what turned off more women from liking SciFi and also why so many find themselves drawn to SciFi/Fantasy YA because in these contemporary genres relatable badass female characters are so much more common.
I liked most of Heinlein's older stuff. Once he wrote "The Number of the Beast" he started writing too weird for me. This was one of his better ones. It is the first that I recall with a cat in it (he seems to have a reverence for cats) & an inventor who is a pretty smart guy but can still get himself into a world of trouble - and then back out again. Fun, quick read.
,,თავისუფალი ნება და ბედისწერა, ორივე ჭეშმარიტებაა.მხოლოდ ერთი სამყარო არსებობს, ერთი წარსულითა და ერთი მომავლით... ,,აწ და მარადის უკუნითი უკუნისამდე''... სამყარო დასასრულის გარეშე.მხოლოდ ერთი სამყარო,რომელიც იმდენად რთულია,რომ თავის სქემებში თავისუფალ ნებასაც იტევს, დროში მოგზაურობასაც და ყველაფერ დანარჩენსაც. ბოლოს ისევ საკუთარ კარს უბრუნდები''. ბიჭო ჰაინლაინ <3
If ever I own a Cat his name will be Pete, for short.
