https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/693208.The_Absolutely_True_Diary_of_a_Part_Time_Indian
A mere 230 pages including comic sketches, Alexie details the plight of Arnold aka Junior, a 14 year old Spokane Indian living on a reservation.
A quarter of the way into his freshman year of high school, Arnold tells his parents he would like to attend Reardan High School 22 miles away.
Yet, Arnold is determined to succeed even if it means being labeled white by his tribe including his best friend Rowdy and Indian or outsider by the rest of his school.
Through his good grades and stellar play on the basketball court, the other students do not label Arnold as "that Indian kid" by the end of the school year.
When you're 14 year old and treated like a leper....as much as being outdoors is where every kid wants to be....staying indoors feels safer.
So, mostly Arnold Junior Spirit hangs out alone in his bedroom and reads books and draws cartoons.
Plus.....dealing with deep personal loss and grief - on top of the normal hardships of parents who drink too much - some parents hit their kids - bullying - best friends break off: devastating.....but find the power to forgive: healing!!!.....but also real painful loss: death - a wasteful death--- MY GOD.....you just want to CRY YOUR EYES OUT!
His contributions have been HUGE!!!!I've heard Alexie speak a few times....
and every time I've heard him speak -- I always come away feeling INSPIRED - MOVED .....
laughing.Also, Junior is a book kisser.I grabbed my book and opened it up.I wanted to smell it.Heck, I wanted to kiss it.Yes, kiss it.That’s right, I’m a book kisser.Maybe that’s kind of perverted or maybe it’s just romantic and highly intelligent.While it certainly packs a punch, it’s a quick, engaging read and I think it would be equally engaging to high schoolers and adults.
It’s one I could pick up and read through again, if I didn’t have so many others waiting for me.Also, the 1 and 2 star reviews on Amazon are pretty diverting.
Both reviews pick on the Catcher in the Rye similarities, but honestly I never thought of Catcher until Junior mentioned it on his list of favorite books.
Even if it’s a fictional story, if it feels realistic, if you can imagine these events taking place in real life, or if it reveals you something about human nature and the world we live in along the way, then it’s a golden truth.
It’s even better if the book was shaped from the author’s own living experiences.
They don’t want you to feel sorry for their lack of dollar bills or the aggression and racism directed their way.In fact, native peoples have come a long way.
Arnold Spirit, the hero of this book, lives on one of those reserves.All he wants is to get out of it.
I excitedly asked him what he thought of it, and his face lit up.
He told me he had just finished it and repeated, "It was a really good book" about three times, with the most genuine smile I've seen from this kid all year.
When I told him it was on my list of books I wanted to read, he handed it to me and said, "take it." Huh?
The whole idea is that you read it and pass it, and I had the good fortune of being handed this beautiful book.
I thought it was amazing.
Or it would have included me before I read this book.This book was one of the biggest eye-openers ever.
If the author didn't carry this story off with such witty humour, it would simply be a FML rant about poverty, death, alcoholism, abusive parents and just the sense that Hope is not even living in the same dimension as Native Americans.The fact that all the book covers for this are incredibly childish is very misleading.
It's an education as well as an entertaining story.I suppose that ultimately this book is about overcoming obstacles and finding hope in the darkest places (I obviously should write cheesy taglines for a living), or even just a bit of humour.
The book won several awards, and was the first young adult fiction work by Alexie, a stand-up comedian, screenwriter, film producer, and songwriter who has previously written adult novels, short stories, poems, and screenplays.
جونیور، البته این دست و پا چلفتی بودن خود را، با زبان طنز و شاعرانه بیان می‌کند، تا خوانشگر حس کند ایشان دارند بدبختی خود را اغراق‌ آمیز توصیف می‌کنند: «...
اوضاع کلاً شلم شوربا و خنده‌ دار شده بود؛ مغزم شده بود عینهو یک ظرف سیب‌ زمینی سرخ کرده غول پیکر.
حالا اگر جدی‌تر و شاعرانه‌ تر و دقیقترش را بخواهید: «به دنیا که آمدم روی مغزم آب بود.» ا.
The story centers around Junior, a Spokane Indian, and his family who live on a reservation.
I had read FLIGHT and RESERVATION BLUES and INDIAN KILLER and THE LONE RANGER AND TONTO FISTFIGHT IN HEAVEN, and I was expecting little from this book.
Reading Junior’s story gave me the chance to see what it is like to know as a young person what your future will hold if raised on a reservation.
But Alexie doesn’t just paint a grim picture of reservation life; he also illuminates the aspects of life that should be cherished within all colors: family and hope.
But when you draw a picture, everybody can understand it."Since Part-Time Indian received the National Book Award for Young People’s Literature, it has gotten its own fair share of attention.
Forney has created the cartoons that appear throughout Part-Time Indian, charged with the task of making them seem as though they are from the pen of Junior himself.
At one point we look at an image of Junior's best friend Rowdy as he's reading his comic books.
In the picture Junior has drawn a big angry face yelling, "What're you drawing??" with the explanation, "Rowdy .
He hits racism, bullying, addiction, death, poverty, and other topics all through his narrator's great sense of humor and his hilarious cartoons.
I think this is the best YA book I've read since The Knife of Never Letting Go. It took me into a world with a type of racism I honestly didn't know much about.
I thought the humor was great and consistent throughout the entire book.
This is a book you can read in one sitting, too, because the pages turn quickly with all of the drawings and short chapters.
"Nu contează ce ai vrut să faci. Contează ce ai făcut cu adevărat.""Bine, tata are o problemă cu alcoolul și mama poate să fie excentrică uneori, dar fac sacrificii pentru mine. Se gândesc la mine. Vorbesc cu mine. Și, cel mai important, mă ascultă."
I am sitting here just staring at the ceiling, I still can’t believe that this book packed such a punch. My sister just walked into the room and asked me what’s wrong and I threw the book at her…  “If you let people into your life a little bit, they can be pretty damn amazing.”    I don’t know if I will manage to convince anyone to at least attempt to pick this up, but I will give it my best.     The story is told from The First person by Junior, a 14-Year-Old Spokane Indian boy born with a vari
The story is told from The First person by Junior, a 14-Year-Old Spokane Indian boy born with a variety of medical problems in a poverty ridden reservation that is heavily looked down upon by the fellow white men.
He then decides to take his hope back and fight for his future by drawing funny illustrations of his life experiences and going in an all-white farm school that will pose a challenge and some interesting surprises while facing major condemnation from his fellow Indians for going to the white school.
It's like my mission in life to read all the famous-ish YA books.
Arnold Spirit Jr. basically lives on this reservation where everyone is an alcoholic, everyone beats everyone else up, and they have no hope of getting out of the cycle.
Arnold decides to go to a white people's school.
So I became good.I wanted to live up to expectations.I guess that's what it comes down to.The power of expectations.^^^^ That is so true.
HE ALWAYS GOT BACK UP."I used to think the world was broken down by tribes," I said.
Looks like I am in minority here as this is a popular book with all those 4 and 5 star ratings and all those glowing reviews.Let me start with a confession, when I'd came across this title I added it thinking that this would be about Indians of India but I was proved wrong within few pages of starting this.
So Arnold decides that he wants to read in a white school, to be friends with white kids, and somehow he feels that his community hates him for this.
His teacher asked him to change school for better studies but the guy was too busy in trying to fit in, to make himself acceptable among the rich and shallow kids.
I wanted to like this book, but I was disappointed.
It's the same Alexie story re-told for teens.
And why oh why did Alexie feel it necessary to kill off three main characters in the last few chapters?!
In these deaths (as in the book as a whole), Alexie tries to address Native American stereotypes -- drinking, fighting, etc.
However, it felt as if he just ends up pointing out how true he thinks they are.
And, of course, Alexie's point of view is valid.
I wanted to like this book, too, but it was a chore getting to the end.
Highly recommend this one! Trigger warnings for alcoholism, depression, and eating disorders.
:)  This book authentically tells us about the consequences of racism, stereotyping and isolation in the eyes of a 14 year old boy, Arnold Spirit Jr., a native Indian American who ironically suffered 14 years of bullying in the hands of his fellow tribesmen in their reservation.
In fact, he realizes that he belongs to many tribes of the world (tribe of book lovers, of basketball lovers, of travelers, of dreamers, etc.)  The manner by which the story is written to me is also very genuine as if everything is coming from an actual 14 year old American-Indian boy and I give credit to the author and the cartoonist for that.
I'm removing my rating & review for this book until I reread it because I don't think I was at an age where I could truly comprehend it, and I know the insensitive phrasing of my original review calling it unrealistic may have hurt and/or misled people who previously saw the review.
Alexie’s autobiographical YA novel features Junior, who escapes into comics (drawn in the manner of a kid, wonderfully, by Ellen Forney) from his often tragic life on the rez, particularly The Spokane Indian Reservation.
He gets beaten up a lot, there’s a lot of fighting on the rez, but Rowdy needs to make sure he doesn’t get hit on the head.Along the way there are tragedies involving his best friend dog, Oscar, his sister who wants to write romance novels, his Dad’s best friend, Eugene that are somewhat balanced by Junior/Alexie’s laughter in the face of all things bad.
For some reason it (at least to me) felt like a mix of I Am the Messenger and Wonder, and I freaking loved both of those books.
But mostly, this book was funny.
And the reason why this book was funny is the main character, Arnold Spirit Junior.
I loved his narration and how he would say random lines that would make me crack up.One more thing that I want to mention is the shock factor this book had.
That was just one of the reasons why I ended up liking this book so much.If you haven't yet read this, give it a shoot.
Dammit, I knew I should have written this review when I first finished the book, but I decided to push it off because it seemed too hard to try and sum up all my feeeeelings, but joke’s on me, now it’s even harder!Sherman Alexie has been one of my favorite writers since I was in college and one of my English comp teachers made us watch Smoke Signals, which is based off Alexie’s short story, “This is What it Means to Say Phoenix, Arizona,” and for which he also wrote the screenplay.
I own all his short story collections, and have re-read them several times.
کتابی بود که از اول تا آخرش، میتونی همزمان هم حس گریه و هم حس خنده داشته باشی.. هر دو با هم..... گوردی کتابی به من داد نوشته ی یک نویسنده روس به نام تولستوی. تولستوی میگوید: «همه خانواده های خوشبخت شبیه هم اند. اما هر خانواده بدبخت، بدبختی خودش را دارد.» خب من دوست ندارم با یک نابغه روس وارد جروبحث شوم. چیزی که هست تولستوی سرخپوستها را نمیشناخته.یکی هم اینکه تولستوی نمیدانست عامل بدبختی تمام خانواده های سرخپوست، دقیقا یک چیز است؛ عرق خوری لعنتی!
There's always a big pile of copies of it in my local bookstore, and I finally gave in to it--I don't read a ton of YA, but perhaps subconsciously I thought this would prevent me from directly comparing it to Lone Ranger and Tonto.I'm not sure this strategy worked, exactly, because at first I was disappointed by the tone of this--it just seemed a little too goofy, and I began to wish I'd chosen some other Alexie for my second book.
My desire to read it was driven partly because it has been banned in several school districts, most likely for references to masturbation and boners and other topics of interest to the normal 14 year-old boy.
My thanks to the fine folks at  The Banned Books Club group for giving me the opportunity to read and discuss this and many other fine books.Alexie's book is a unique coming-of-age tale of Junior, a Spokane Indian boy growing up in the high deserts of eastern Washingon, who decides he wants something more from life.
Really enjoyed this! It was a rather interesting writing style. It had this very casual feeling to it. I will say that there are a few things here and there that irked me, but for the most part it was enjoyable. Full video review to come! :)
So you can imagine what an eye-opener this book has been to me."The Absolutely True Diary of a Part-Time Indian" narrates a story of Arnold Spirit, Jr., a Spokane Indian teenage boy who is determined to take his future into his own hands.
Although everybody on the rez realizes that there is no future for those who decide to spend their lives in Spokane, Junior's transfer is taken as a betrayal of the tribe, his family, and Indian heritage.
It seems I’ve taken my sweet time getting to Sherman Alexie’s work, and for that I’m kind of bummed. While I’ve heard the rave reviews of this novel in particular–with its National Book Award and all–I had my doubts. I don’t always read the YA books, but when I do, I hope that they are as finely written as this one with a unique narrative voice, an emotional reading experience, and plenty to think about, no matter what your age. — Andi Millerfrom The Best Books We Read In June: http://bookriot.com/2015/06/30/riot-r...
When it comes to death, we know that laughter and tears are pretty much the same thing." As a white person, I cannot say whether or not The Absolutely True Diary of a Part-Time Indian accurately portrays the Native American experience however, Debbie Reese, a Nambe Pueblo Indian woman and assistant professor in American Indian Studies at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, whose  blog discusses "Critical perspectives of indigenous peoples in children's and young adult books, the school curriculum, popular culture, and society-at-large", praises the book stating: "There's a lot in the book that I really like because I connect with the character, the setting, the experiences...
Indians were supposed to move onto reservations and die.
You start believing that you're poor because you're stupid and ugly.
And then you start believing that you're stupid and ugly because you're Indian.
And because you're Indian you start believing you're destined to be poor.
As Junior's teacher said: "We were supposed to make you give up being Indian.
We were trying to kill Indian culture." Very tragic.It was a sad book but it was also quirky and funny.
Amazing book. Kind of kicking myself for not picking it up sooner.
