https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/67696.The_Last_of_the_Wine
On returning home he sees that his wife has taken to the baby and does not have the heart to take it from her.A whole world is displayed in this story – a father’s right to condemn a child to death, his relationship with a wife he considers as little more than a child, an acceptance, nay a celebration, of love between men, and in particular an older man for a younger, and the narrator’s respect for his father despite knowing that his father does not value him.Renault was often criticised for her portrayal of women in her Greek novels, but she is only showing their actual position in Athenian society.
Renault once again does a stellar job bringing Classical Greece to life with the story of Alexias, scion of a minor patrician family in Athens during the era when the city felt turmoil both from within and from without as they experienced not only the aggression of Sparta during Peloponnesian War, but also the existence of philosopher and iconoclast Sokrates.
Alexias is an interesting figure: someone from a ‘noble’ patrician family who is still committed to the best of the democratic ideals, a follower of Sokrates who still values many of the Athenian traditions his mentor questions.
(hide spoiler)]"As the gods hear me, Alexias, your good shall be mine, and your honor shall be like my own to me; and I will stand to it with my life."If you are a lover of Ancient Greece, philosophy, Olympic games, mythology and the Peloponnesian War, if you are a lover of classic literature so well written and documented it gives you the impression the author was an immortal who had lived in that era, if you are a lover of complex characters, honor, and love of the “good and beautiful”, then read this book asap, if you haven't already done so.
Another gorgeous historical novel from Mary Renault. I love how casually bisexual she paints Ancient Anthenian society. It's entirely normal for two men to be lovers while having female mistresses and wives. Only complaint is that I wanted to see more of the love/relationship between Lysis/Alexias. It was more telling than showing. I realize, however, that showing a healthy loving sexual relationship between two men in a book written in 1958, wasn't quite do-able. Still excellent.
The Last of the Wine, although set in the ancient Greek world, like the Fire from Heaven trilogy, it's a very different work.
Although it takes place in Greece in the fifth century BC, the time of the great upheaval caused by the Peloponnesian Wars, and though the main character, Alexias, takes part in this conflict, it's a much more subdued and sober book than the trilogy.Renault concentrates much more on using her main characters - Alexias, Lysis, Sokrates, Plato, Myron, Kritias and others - to conjure up an image and a feel of what the city of Athens might have been like at the time.
When I'm in the mood for that sort of thing, Renault is fantastic at it — but when I just want to know what's going on with Lysis and Alexias, the latest exploits of Alkibiades are less than satisfying.There are a great many tragic moments in this book, many of which are not stated directly but are left for the reader to apprehend for him or herself.
I loved this, because it made me almost a participant in the story.The language is thick and not easy or fast to read, but while I often found it challenging, there was never a sentence that wasn't worth deciphering, in the end.
From my perspective it has never been a gay book even though some would like to force it into this category, but it is a book about an ancient culture when relationships between men were approved by society, when in theory it was meant to be about much more than just love and desire.
Or is it simply the consequence of what we do or neglect to do?We follow very well pictured characters, many of them based on historical figures, through their struggle with a complex society, a net of political intrigues, a war that in the end will shatter faith in human reason.For all those who do not think pink it will be quite a revelation to see in print, from a more distant perspective than their own, why Democracy can be just as dangerous and unjust as a Tyranny.
Splendid. Full of wisdom and grace. The ending was worth the whole book. I loved Phaedo the most...
I read this book for the first time in high school in 1999 when we were studying World History.
I love ancient history, specifically Greece, so this book was a dream for me.
The book is set in Athens, Greece during the time of the Peloponnesian Wars and follows the life of Alexias, a young Greek boy.
We are able to experience Alexias' life, love and loss.
As the readers we are able to experience the life of an ancient Athenian citizen during a time of great upheaval and it's absolutely wonderful.
$1.99 on US Kindle: October 23, 2018https://www.amazon.com/Last-Wine-Nove...
Had to stop and look up too many things: which characters existed in history, what some customs were (like the Herms placed in front of homes), words such as Helots, Demos.2.
Became impatient with many details that were repetitious and yet often frustrated because something in culture of the time was not clarified.I did skip to the end and would have liked to discuss attitudes toward Demos (later found they were The People) - especially since I am now watching the protesters in Egypt.
I have too many other books I want to read to spend any more time with this one.
This books relates the story of the Peloponesian wars and the decline of Athens from the perspective of a young boy growing into a man.
This in itself held my attention, but I found it even more compelling because of the historically relevent same-sex relationship between the protagonist and his best friend and lover.
It was an eye-opening experience because it is the first and only book I've read with this type of relationship central to a story.
It is never graphic, just tender and thoughtful.
All the relationships of the book seek to enlighten us on the necessity of tenderness between humans.
excuse me whilst I cry my entire heart and soul out ;-; 4.5, RTC but MY HEART Mary Renault paints a beautifully informed painting of Athenian society, reflecting the gender hierarchies, sexual relations and political and philosophical learnings of the time yes it was great still emotionally distraught
The story is told by Alexias, who grows from a small boy in Athens to a very mature and experienced man of about 30, who at the close of the book is about to see his well-loved Socrates put to death.
She even convincingly rehearses the life of philosophical inquiry and the attitude of the young Plato towards his mentor Socrates.
My only quibbles with the book would be first that it lacks a real plot--it simply traces the events of a life, with only brief episodes in which one action brings about another.
And choosing someone is different from making a list.
It's funny that I decided to read this now, not knowing anything about the plot other than it is set in Ancient Greece. I'd read some of Renault's other books and enjoyed them very much when I was a kid and thought I'd revisit her work. I found this one very contemplative; I was surprised to find her meditations on the nature of democracy and authoritarianism so relevant to the present day.
Renault really throws her readers in at the deep end and her setting, Athens towards the end of the Peloponnesian War, feels exceptionally alien and confusing to negotiate at first.
Characterisation is superb, as is her fluent, subtle weaving of her plot through the historical record of events - this always feels lived and real, not bolted-on research or a litany of dates and battles.
Ultimately, I thought this poignant tale of a love affair set at a time of cultural and moral collapse was extremely effective and enlightening.
I've never studied Greek history and knew nothing, nothing, going in.I've never before read a book where you have to take notes, I've always kind of believed reading to be for pleasure, not work, and that the author has a responsibility to perhaps provide more clarity.
I think these things all speak to the period the book was written and the British upbringing of the author.These are not really flaws though.
If you're looking into it because you're interested in m/m romance like I was, this is not the book for you.
Instead of depicting a homosexual relationship as the genres may imply, you could say it's better defined as biromantic heterosexuality, if we're getting technical, seeing as the narrator Alexias suggests that being sexual with Lysis is vulgar, and that that's why they have women.
(The deeply rooted ancient Greek misogyny is quite apparent as well.) I don't recommend this unless you're looking specifically for a historical painting of Ancient Greece.
The focus isn't on the relationship but more on war, politics, and philosophy.
Renault looks at the end of the great war between Athens and Sparta and the collapse of Athenian democracy and Athenian power.
Renault wasn't afraid a generation ago to see that the love story would have to be same-sex, and to depict a world where her young hero would find an older, male lover/mentor as he grew into being an Athenian of his age and class.
Renault draws on Xenophon for her depictions of Socrates and the young Plato, and takes a cool and detached and ironic look at the strengths and failings on both democracy and oligarchy.
“We spoke without sound each other’s names.”There’s no melodrama, no overwrought feelings, and the physical acts of companionship detail a subtle eroticism that does not smother the cuisine with ketchup—Daniel Mendelsohn, who corresponded with Renault over many years, (from “The American Boy” in the New Yorker) writes “Sex rarely appears in Renault’s books … this was partly because of the author’s own idealized exaltation of platonic love, and partly for reasons that she identified as writerly ones.” He quotes her as having written: “If characters have come to life, one should know how they will make love; if not it doesn’t matter.
At times, I was completely drawn into it, but other times, it seemed to move a bit slow. However, the end was really, truly tragic, leaving me stunned. Overall, a good read, indeed.
Having read this book, I'm more convinced than ever that we are worse off for that ignorance.Renault ticks all the boxes when it comes to the major aspects of Greek culture that we might expect to encounter in a book about classical Greece: sports, politics, war (both on land an naval combat) love and marriage.
The historical aspects of her work aside, where this book really shines is in how Renault presents characters and culture in a way that not only makes them live, but puts us in their time and place.
I'd never heard of it but it turns out it's absolutely in my wheelhouse: if you like Socratic philosophy, ancient Greek history and the Captive Prince trilogy, this is highly recommended!Renault was in a same-sex relationship but I liked that there was no retconning of modern sexuality into this story.
If you don't already know about how the politics, education, military and religious life worked, you could be a little lost, but it's easy to pick up.It's also interesting in that Alexias and Lysis, the book's central lovers, are not depicted in a sexual way but as bonded in an intensely emotional way.
A homophile friend of mine long ago recommended Mary Renault, and I picked up one of her books - The Praise Singer, I think - and did not greatly enjoy it.
If the reading of it had one drawback (and it was my failure, not Renault's), it was that my background in Greek literature & history is not strong enough to experience the full deliciousness of her reinvention of the characters of Athenian and Spartan history.
Renault is both restrained & unsentimental in her depiction of the relationship - this is a long way off in sensibility from, say, the romantic friendships in Broster's novels, and poles apart from modern depictions of modern-day gay relationships.
The story revolves around Alexias, a noble Athenian youth growing into adulthood during the Peloponnesian War. Although he spends much of his time at the feet of various philosophers, including Plato and Sokrates, he also works out at the gymnasium, argues with his father, and goes to war when his city calls upon him.
But the relationship of Alexias and Lysis is central to the book, and in the author’s capable hands, the reader accepts it as the cultural norm.
For right now I'm going to be on the conservative side.
Seeing that my "conservative side" is four stars, that still means I loved this book a lot.
But as always, I round down.
I think a book that you randomly think about during the day and enters you into a WORLD OF PAIN each time you do (and in a good way, as good as a world of pain can be) is at least a pretty good one.update: this may be the only book I've rounded up than down.
I read this book when I was in high school and it had a tremendous impact on my life.
I even talked my western civilization prof in college into accepting a book report of this book because it was listed in the suggested reading of our textbook.Her writings led me to a lifelong fascination with ancient history.
I took 2 years of ancient Greek and as many Greek history related electives as I could fit into a geology degree.I recommend this book and all her others to anyone struggling to get through ancient history in college.
These books bring it to life.
Narrada pelo fictício jovem Alexias, essa bela ficção histórica de Mary Renault cobre praticamente todo o período marcado pela epidemia que devastou a população ateniense em 430 a.C. até o ano 401 a.C. ou seja, dois anos antes da condenação e morte de Sócrates.
E isso o diferencia de tantos romances históricos e, portanto, está mais para um ficção histórica do que um romance.Mary Renault não esmoesse em momento algum ao tratar temas ainda tão tabus hoje em dia, como o que se convencionou a chamar "amor grego" até as questões políticas e militares mais difíceis de se tratar, inclusive os discursos filosóficos.
Not quite sure what to think of this book.
Some list had it mentioned as the 2nd best Historical Fiction book of all time.
As is friendship and the Peloponnesian War. It seems very thoroughly researched but it is a very slow book.
I did learn a heck of a lot about the Peloponnesian War, Greek Society and Mythology, along with some philosophy (had a good background on all of this before the book but this was very thorough).At times it reads like a textbook.
This is a book that lives and breathes. It demands to be read slowly because it consumes its reader. A beautiful love story that is incredibly poignant and all the right kinds of sad. You’ll cry.
