https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6320534-under-the-dome
of course, payne tosses this preposterously impossibly wildly beautiful woman out, offended at the very idea: in movies like this you can't have your hero banging away strange woman or engaging in any kinda deviancy.
king's bad guys were bad before the dome and once the shit comes down they kill and gang-rape with no fore or afterthought.
i reject king's view of the world in that it lacks moral complexity, it lacks the true stink of human existence.
what king might lack in his basic presentation of human behavior he almost makes up for in his evocation of a kind of horrible and ineffable beauty.

Sure, I've read The Girl Who Loved Tom Gordon, but only because it was described as a young adult novel (King-lite, if you will).
As I was consuming Little House on the Prairie books (my earliest encounter with book rape--thanks, grandma) and Nancy Drew, I began noticing that mom was always reading these big ass books with KING running down the spine.
Eager for us to share this love of reading (Mom curiously had no interest in the plight of the Ingalls family), I begged and pleaded to be allowed to read the King books.
When I finished that scene, I handed the book over and never asked to read King again.
And Dick Cheney is in charge….That terrifying idea is what makes Under the Dome one of the best books King has done.Chester’s Mill, Maine, is a typical Stephen King small town, filled with people both good and criminally insane.
(I grew up in a small town, and I could easily think of some of the locals who would have tried to take over after a crisis if left unchecked, and some of them probably would have been worse than Big Jim and his crowd of hand-picked bullies.) Although this is a huge book and King has been bad about over-writing in the past, this one flies by and I actually found myself wanting a little more detail about some of the people since many of them don’t get much of a wrap up.
Around my house we kinda laugh when Sarah Palin comes on TV, and we say, "That's Greg Stillson as a woman." (http://www.salon.com/books/int/2008/1...)More scary than funny to me.
I’m not a sci-fi writer; I don’t know a lot about technology, so I thought I’d try again, set it in an apartment building, and then I wouldn’t have to deal with what the weather would be like under a dome.
And the third Selectman is a drug-addicted woman who is reliant on Big Jim and Andy for her supplies.
Pink Stars Are Falling!👍🐯Flat Earthers would go crazy for this story!!!🐯👍Get to the centre and jump in!!!🐯👍To leave the Matrix!!🐯👍At least that is what they did in the TV show to escape the dome and appear outside. Is Stephen King basing this book on the Flat Earth Model? The inner realm? Agartha? Shamballa? New Jerusalem? Eden? 🐯👍. 😕
Every time I read one of his books, I'm absolutely blown away by the amazing writing style and by how fast the (sometimes massive amount of) pages fly by.Even though this story was (once again) told in great detail, I never felt like scenes were unnecessarily drawn out.
I often find these sudden changes in the middle of a story confusing and rather annoying, but (of course) King knows how to do it in the right way and use it to his advantage.
It really helps to deliver the point the story is trying to make.Lastly, I also would like to show my appreciation for the little ordinary things included throughout the book.
king is also the only author to terrify me to this day with a story i read when i was about 7 or 8 on my way to the fair (yeah, i know, but what better to read trapped in a car on the way to some fair?) and even thinking about it now (the boogeyman) gives me delicious shivers.this one started off pretty good - engaging plot, fast-paced, numerous characters to keep straight in the head.
And then things get **really** ugly: The local used car salesman takes control.Think Nixon with a mean streak and a Big Fat Secret to protect."From Bad to Worse" could be the subtitle of every Stephen King novel, but this time it's so so so so bad and then it gets so so so much worse that the reader is calling out to Divine Providence for the mercy of Death...and then comes The Twist.
The Dome is revealed to be...but no, you have to read it.My Review: Stephen King = what Chuckles the Dick would've been if he'd had talent.Just sayin'.I hated liking this book.
I DID IT. I DID IT!!!
But at the same time, King has really let me down with this cast of dull, one-dimensional, and highly stereotypical characters.
In one case, a character is a blatant clone of the Trash Can Man from The Stand, complete with being the cause of a widespread disaster.
The interactions of these characters often seems forced and unnatural, and the dialogue, at times, horrendous.
At first, I thought of him as a military Larry Underwood (if you're wondering about my favorite King book, it's still The Stand), but as the novel wore on, I realized how much I'd underestimated him---both his capacity for good and the depth of his sins.
Or at least spun back the hands of the clock for one marvelous night.Reading Stephen King's Under the Dome was like watching Jordan work his magic that night.
In fact, I believe, like the great Elmore Leonard, Stephen King is going to be producing amazing books for at least a couple more decades.
Meanwhile, a small collection of like-minded good guys start to strangely gather one to another and begin bonding around their outlandish good nature and intuitive good sense, an intuition shared only by this select few who gather together occasionally to collect all their facts and come to stunningly accurate conclusions through dialogues that read like the minutes of a high school student government meeting.
King can handle a large ensemble of characters and a complex plot.
He can even write well enough to keep me reading a huge book that I find stupid.
3.5 StarsA quiet town-Chester's Mill, Maine is trapped under an invisible dome.
I was so intrigued by the invisible dome and all the images it provided.
I read this with some reading buddies and we had so much fun trying to guess where the story was going and how it would end.Plenty of suspense sustains most of the story, although some of the side stories did feel unnecessary and slowed the momentum down.
The ending was a bit disappointing to me (which I can't disclose because of spoilers) Now I can't wait to watch the television show and see how the characters are portrayed.
In the middle of the night thoughts became zombies."An impenetrable and transparent barrier inexplicably falls down over the small town of Chester's Mill, cutting it off from the rest of the world as its inhabitants are left to fight for survival.Under the Dome was always one of those King books that I dreaded.
Now admittedly that may be due to having the ending semi-spoilered for me prior to reading, but even if that wasn't the case, I'm pretty sure I would still have liked it.I'm a huge fan of when King takes a small town and really fleshes it out - I love when he expands upon the different families and relationships, and even the doggos.
Trigger warning for Rape, Abuse, Violence and Pure Gore  • MULTIPLE PERSPECTIVES - Check  • Original Scary Concept - Check  • F#$% Psychos - Check  • Stephen King’s writing - Check  “If you can't laugh when things go bad--laugh and put on a little carnival--then you're either dead or wishing you were.” I DID IT!!! I FREAKING READ THE MOST INTIMIDATING BOOK ON MY TBR!!! And boy did it take a lot of effort *mentally and physically* to pick up this book from my shelf and start it, being a HUGE *pu
It was everything I wanted in a book and more.You have to agree when Stephen King writes a big book it’s usually mind-blowingly amazing and with  Under the Dome  I got nothing less but pure perfection in story-telling.
I personally HATED Big Jim (if you’ve read the book you understand) I wanted to jump in the pages and shoot his ass.It touched upon topics of Power, Rape and Abuse, Morality, Religion, Death, Politics and so much more.
I was surprised by how fast I went through it and people are intimidated by the size but sparing some time and immersing yourself in the story, you will not regret, especially if you are familiar with kings writing.
Obviously, my opinion matters little, since Stephen King is popular enough that he can write everything as long-winded as he'd like and tell us all to move along if we aren't happy with it.This was a disturbing, gory, graphic and engrossing read.
The cast of characters varied from sane to insane, which made for a lot of booing and cheering when it came to following everyone's individual stories.Quick Story Synopsis : One small town is minding their own small-town business when from out of nowhere, a dome closes over their town, shutting them off from the rest of the world.
There are no monsters or creepers (well not really) but I think the villians in this story are much more terrifying because of the recent outbreak of fear-mongering in America.
I believe in the right to bare arms, capital punishment and small government but if I had to be trapped under a dome with a group of people I hope and pray its liberals.King has crafted himself a gang of the most terrifying villians yet and its because they are actual people.
Bravo King!But really what struck me the most is how fast a civilized group of people can turn into a lynching mob under the right leadership.
I found it to be an easy read and rather compelling, but toward the end I just wanted to get to the end to find out how it ended, not because I engrossed in the book or the characters, I just needed to know why the dome was in place.Oh, the characters.
This book had every stereotypical small town character you can imagine.
The plot was basically "what happens when a big fish in a small town has the opportunity to take complete power." I thought this would be a great psychological thriller.
Ahhh, happy ending.
I really enjoyed this. I don’t watch TV so never saw the series- in fact I didn’t know there was one until I started checking out reviews of the book on Goodreads. What I enjoyed most was the rapid breakdown of society in this small town. It was so believable and horrifying. Rennie was totally evil and I loved the whole cast of characters. While this was a long book, I think King managed to stay away from too much waffle this time although I’m sure many would disagree!
(The Stand was, for me, too verbose at times; then again, I chose to read the extended version, perhaps my own fault...)The progression of the novel was done brilliantly, aided with shortish chapters.
Before reading the novel I thought the dome would play a greater, if not central role in the story, but it takes a backseat to the characters' stories, which was a pleasant surprise.
I actually think King would have been better off to leave the ending unresolved.
With the shorter chapters it is even easy to read another book at the same time and not lose track of the story.
Indeed, what we've got here is a bit of a Slaughterhouse Five thing.
And here's the great part, I haven't seen such a kingpin since Breaking Bad, and that was AFTER this novel!
True horror is in us, after all, and not in his monsters.Honestly, I probably would have latched-on to this one of SK's novels much more had I been more of a lightweight in the whole growing dystopia thing.
Yeah, sadly, there was a lot of multidimensional characters that may not have needed much rounding out.
Indeed, a lot of them are nothing more for the fodder for the hell that's heading their way.
The townies are first rattled and shocked and then slowly, they start formulating a plan--well some do, some just take advantage of the fact that their community is sealed off from the rest of the world and they get up to some bad behavior.Like really bad, disgusting behavior.Where this all went wrong, I think, was in the character development story lines that were super long winded and overly wrought.
How could King write characters like those but then completely miss the mark in Dome?
In comparison to his other doomsday style writing like The Stand, this book falls short even more.
godine.Iako je kupola i njen "pad" na mali grad povod za pisanje ovog dela, situacije i događaje koje uzrokuje su ono što čini okosnicu priče.
King je povodom ovoga svojevremeno izjavio da je jedini uslov za prodaju prava taj da kupola ostane "nedodirnuta" kao entitet, dok su svi ostali likovi i događaji podložni izmeni i stapanju.
(view spoiler)[Verovatno najveće razočarenje predstavlja trenutak kada akteri uspevaju da nađu način da izlaze van i vraćaju se u kupolu, što nikako nije bilo moguće u knjizi i što je zapravo jedan od glavnih postulata na kojima je cela priča i zasnovana.
That is the longest it has ever taken for me to read a book.
This book was quite the undertaking but well worth it.
I take my hat off to King for the ability to write such a complex novel with so many characters & story lines merging into one.
What a fantastic smooth read.
The characters came to life!
While reading it, I almost felt as if I was part of the story, living it.
I have read several books by King and this is the first one I have truly liked.
I was kind of disappointed, there are no cannibals in Under The Dome.The book is colossal at more than 1000 pages.
This isn't anything new for King fans as many of his books are more than 700 pages.
It was over 1000 pages and was one of King's better books (although the ending was disappointing).Under The Dome should not have been 1000 pages.
It's part Tommyknockers (his worst book IMO), partly Dreamcatcher (also awful) and partly Needful Things (mediocre at best).The book is also an anti-bush polemic.
Under the Dome is partly based on Lord of the Flies which King frequently mentions in his work.
Every book by Stephen King is like magic. Pure perfectness!I think every book-lover should at least read one book by Stephen King in their life.
And this is what makes King my favorite author (well, the main thing, anyway), when he writes a fast-paced novel, I don't dare look away.
Not only is it fast-paced, but King brings the characters and their community to life so convincingly that I'm afraid of what could be happening with my back turned, and I don't want to miss anything.
If this is what it means to give a book life, then King is like Dr. Frankenstein, only he knows exactly what he is doing and is more than willing to shape and guide and love these newly formed creations of his.
Now in this book you met a ton of characters.
However, I feel like the overall pace of the book was kind of slow.
With the ton of characters throughout the book it was quite easy to get overwhelmed and lose track of who is who.
Trust me, I had some confusing moments and had to back track a lot.Overall, the story was long but it was interesting and entertaining enough to keep me chugging along.
I never finished the show so I didn't see the ending coming the way that it did.I will definitely try to read another Stephen King book..
Es una persona totalmente desagradable, horrenda, odiosa, uno de los seres más hijos de puta que pueden existir, junto con su hijo Junior Rennie...
Es admirable leer cómo las relaciones cambian, cómo son las reacciones de los personajes al verse atrapados bajo una cúpula salida de la nada.
Al principio de esta novela el autor nos advierte que son muchísimos los personajes.
Por eso nos da una lista con todos los habitantes de este pueblo.
Es como que King dijo: "Bueno, ya está, terminemos con esto de una vez por todas".
Tengo la sensación de que King se divirtió mucho escribiendo la conclusión.
