https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5197.A_Lesson_Before_Dying
How did I feel at the end of this book....uplifted and beaten down, both.
So many very heavy feelings spread through this sad story, but there are moments of redemption if you watch carefully for them.Many already know of the story...the teenaged boy who is in the wrong place at the wrong time and ends up sentenced to death.
Many people change during the course of this story, including any thoughtful readers.Shortly after starting this book, I realized that I was reading something very special, powerful, important.
And I realized that I was very glad to be reading it, no matter how difficult it might ultimately become.
I believe every person in this country should read this book.
With raw, unflinching honesty and a brilliant depiction of time and place, this is the story of a young, black man sentenced to death for being in the wrong place at the wrong time.
A white man was shot to death, the other two perpetrators dead, someone must be held accountable.A young school teacher, returned to the quarters to teach the black school children, and now enlisted by his aunt and the condemned man's nana to help the man go to his death as a man, not as an inhuman man, not much better than a hog, a thing, not a person.
Poignant depiction of strong women, women who had to be since so many of the men had left and not returned.
Jefferson’s godmother feels the importance of Jefferson dying as a “man” not as a “hog”, so she enlists the narrator, Grant, to teach Jefferson how to be a man so he can die with dignity.Grant was an interesting character in that he was the only educated black man in that community; the community expected a lot from him and the immense pressure he was under was evident.
I found the following quote immensely powerful as a person who abhors the death penalty regardless of how “bad” the person is: “How do people come up with a date and a time to take life from another man?
This account of a school teacher's attempt to bring dignity to the last days of a condemned man in 1940's Louisiana is moving but still somehow disappointing. Shortened, it would have made a fine novella.
Jefferson, a poor, uneducated twenty-one-year-old Black was standing in the wrong place at the wrong time--in a small-town liquor store outside of Bayonne, Louisiana.
Will Grant succeed, or won’t he?
I believe it will satisfy both those with and without religious beliefs.And more--about what keeps a person alive, about last requests and about the inhumanity of the death sentence.
The characters’ words and actions are well chosen, making the tale succinct and powerful.Th audiobook narration is executed by Lionel Mark Smith and Roger Guenveur Smith.
Was the word I was hearing, “hog”, what I was supposed to be hearing?!
A lesson Before Dying is a very MOVING book.
"Do you know what a myth is, Jefferson?" I asked him.
"A myth is an old lie that people believe in.
White people believe that they're better then anyone else on earth -and that's a myth.
You had one that he made from a piece of scrap wood.
And it came from a piece of old wood that he found in the yard somewhere.
And that's all we are Jefferson, all of us on this earth, a piece of drifting wood.
I am still that piece of drifting wood, and those out there are no better.
The third Ernest Gaines novel I've read gets another 5 stars from me.
There was a tiny seismic shift inside me that I recognized as another piece of understanding in this complicated dance of racial relations between black and white.A simple story on the surface: Young Jefferson, a black man, is in the wrong place at the wrong time and is sentenced to the electric chair.
This is Louisiana in 1948, and the white man is in charge.As in the other two books I mentioned, the women in this novel are the strong ones, and get things done.
I still think about this book, even after reading it months ago.
It’s a very simple story about two African-American men in 1940s Louisiana; one is a teacher and the other is a uneducated man waiting to be executed for a murder he witnessed, but didn’t commit.
Both of them have given up hope for their lives, and for humanity in general.
I won't lie; it's a very sad book, so you should read it with a box of Kleenex nearby.
So read it, and not just because it’s a profound examination of racial, gender, and religious issues.
Read it as an appreciation of what the human soul can achieve, even in the smallest spaces.
Gaines' 'A Lesson Before Dying' is a tedious read that has a good story, but ultimately falls flat mainly because of shallow characters and flat writing.However, if you are looking for a short, quick-read novel about African-Americans and whites during racial segregation in the style of 'To Kill a Mockingbird', this might be your cup of tea.
An incredibly powerful novel that peels back the curtain of injustice, laying bare human pride and prejudice, rooted in fear, and how one person can be the fertile ground for positive change. And each of us are potentially the "one." This novel, though centered around a man sentenced to die in the electric chair for a crime he most likely didn't commit, it is more of a story about executing the sin of pride which causes all humans to stumble.
A tale of Jefferson, a poor black man in Louisiana in the late 40's, sentenced to death for a crime he didn't commit, and the teacher, Grant Wiggins, who is asked to help him somehow to become more of a man before he dies.
Grant has little faith in his value as a teacher to elementary kids facing an unjust and impoverished life or belief in any afterlife.
But he comes to identify with Jefferson and his need to achieve a sense of his own self-dignity, and this task becomes part of his own quest.
The prose is rich and elegant in its spareness and the story never settles into melodrama.
Another wonderful read by Gaines. This is heavy on the heart. The question comes to mind, "who was the teacher?" Lots of role reversals in this one. Gaines is an author to be trusted, he knows exactly how to handle his reading audience. He sure can stir the emotions but he also stirs the mind.
The teacher Grant Wiggins described the trial: "He said it would be like tying a hog down into that chair and executing him--an animal that didn't know what any of it was all about.
Now his godmother wants me to visit him and make him know--prove to these white men--that he's not a hog, that he's a man."The book shows the prejudice of the Jim Crow Era in the way the black people are treated, especially in the deep South.
A witness said Jefferson was the strongest man in the room.
A young, poorly educated black man – Jefferson - is sentenced to death despite being innocently present in a failed robbery when two black robbers and one white shopkeeper killed each other.
As a result Jefferson’s elderly churchgoing grandmother and her friend, the narrator Grant’s Aunt, decide that the narrator – a teacher in the local school – have to teach him to be a man before he dies.
A black man is wrongly accused of a crime he did not commit, and a schoolteacher is given the task of helping him face his punishment like a man. The facts seem simple, but there is so much more to this little book. Through Grant Wiggins, the articulate yet conflicted narrator, Ernest J. Gaines presents the plight of downtrodden African Americans in the South. Yet he also makes the reader confront what it means to be truly human, and to face one's destiny with true courage.
This was one of the best books I have ever read.
A black man who was a slave on the cotton farms was wrongly accused of murder and was sentenced to death by the electric chair.
The book is about the last few weeks the man has on earth.
A black teacher was sent to him each week to convinced him that he was worth something and that he was a man.
He convinced him to believe in God and ask for forgivness of his sins.
He walked to the electric chair like a man.I recommend this book to all readers.
What a powerful story. This goes to my classics shelf immediately. This is the kind of great book that makes you wonder how you could have passed it over for so long. Instant respect for Ernest Gaines.
I did not want the month of February to go by without reading at least one book by a black author.
It's a question without an easy answer and Gaines' characters stumble through humbly, defiantly, confusedly, longingly.
Gaines never wastes a word in telling this story and all I want is more.Read Alikes:To Kill a Mockingbird (I don't make this comparison lightly, A Lesson Before Dying is every bit as powerful a novel.)Dead Man Walking: The Eyewitness Account Of The Death Penalty That Sparked a National Debate
I wouldn't want to think that a time will come when light, breath, and little breezes are things I will not experience.
Well, think of a man who knows that he shall soon die.
Bring in Mr. Wiggins, a teacher whom the community expects so much from, and ask him to teach this man a lesson before, well....His narrative voice, sad but deepened by wisdom as it is sharpened by doubt and pain, is like seating by a fire and listening to an old man whose tranquility exudes and soothes.
Now,I want to listen to a sad song:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SnL1e4...Totally unrelated, by the way.
Just sad.
I had forgotten most details of the plot, the narrative structure, the characters, so it was almost like reading it for the first time; and the shock and power of the book hit me anew.
This book, about a young black man condemned to die for being in the wrong place at the wrong time in the pre-Civil Rights era South and the young black teacher who is asked to teach him to die like a man, is generally described as being about race relations and about human dignity, but it's far more complex and layered than that.
I felt like the author could have done a better job of making interesting characters with multiple dimensions.
The only two characters that were even attempted to be portrayed as interesting, evolving people were the two main characters.
And even the two characters who were supposed to be "interesting" I found to be not very suprising or believable.
In fact, I found the main character to be somewhat arrogant.
Plus, I felt like the book didn't have any nuanced themes other than the "racism is bad" one that is hammered home.
I was expecting much more from this book.
"I was crying"I finished this novel a few minutes ago. I haven't uttered a word yet. Can't. This is as close as I can come to tears. Tears shedded for beauty, tears shedded for sadness, and tears for hope.... I think I will linger in silence a little while longer....
“It don’t matter.” (Page 73)Ah yes, there is that mastery, like a reincarnation of Hemingway, with an artist’s understanding of the way that life moves—not in straight lines, but in circles, ever circling on the same spot, trying out its parameters until it is known, only then shifting to the next circle, a slight distance this way, or that, or even back again.
She calls in a favor from Grant, who reluctantly agrees to visit Jefferson in prison and teach him to die like a man.
Jefferson bitterly accepts being called a hog—“it don’t matter”—but the story unfolds in those gorgeously clean lines with the meetings between the two men, some of which are nothing more than sitting together in a prison cell for an hour and staring at the ceiling.
A very difficult book to rate.
I didn't enjoy reading it; I didn't feel particularly connected to or drawn in by the characters, I found the writing somewhat flat.
And now I find myself wanting to read more of Gaines' work.Don't tell me to believe.
Don't tell me to believe in the same God or laws that men believe in who commit these murders.
Don't tell me to believe that God can bless this country and that men are judged by their peers.
Who among his peers judged him?
No, his peers did not judge him - and I will not believe.
This is one of the best books I have ever read. I especially liked the development of Grant. I like the fact that he questions the problems and situations around him. He's not content to stay where he is in life and within himself.
The plot unfolds around Jefferson’s godmother’s request which will require Grant to visit Jefferson regularly in prison.Grant grapples with the enormity of the request that’s been made of him.
We also learn about the decisions he made that allowed his life to turn out differently from Jefferson’s.During Jefferson’s encounters with Grant, we see Jefferson grow from being unresponsive and dejected to open and spirited.
It would’ve been interesting to see how his life would’ve turned out had he felt he could choose more freely.Jefferson is incarcerated through the entire novel however, the storyline surrounding him isn’t lacking.
One of the most powerful chapters in the book reveals the writings in Jefferson’s journal.
This is an exceptional book. My Gosh....I might consider reading it again myself. (I had just noticed a GR's friend is currently reading it).
A young man is in the wrong place at the wrong time, and due to his poor decision making on this one ill fated occasion, ends up wrongfully accused of murder and condemned to death row.
When this fails to prevent Jefferson from being convicted and sentenced to the electric chair, his godmother calls upon local grade school teacher Grant Wiggins.
But instead of pitifully accepting designation as a brute animal, maybe he can find a measure of dignity in his final days, allowing him to take his final steps with head held high like a man.
Jefferson does his best.
Readers may do their best in the end not to cry.
A topic that still resonates in 2015, a notion that I feel makes this novel all the more eye-opening.Jefferson was in the wrong place at the right time- at a convenient store where his two friends decide to rob and kill the store manager.
Both of his friends end up dead as well, so there's no one there to witness Jefferson's innocence.
The tactic didn't work to get him off, but now Jefferson is numb, and is convinced that he is no better than a hog.
Absolutely incredible book. I was on my couch sobbing during parts of it. And it takes a lot to make me shed tears. Great writing. Brings you right into the moment.
