https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/216088.Ripley_s_Believe_It_or_Not_
A must have for fans of useless trivia, and you really will not believe what's on every page.
Trivia! Lots of weird and entertaining facts I will probably never use in real life. But I like it.
There was a whole series of Ripley's Believe It Or Not books that I read back in the 70's. They were a big part of my pre-teen and early teen formative years. The paper was flimsy pulp and the hand-drawn B&W cartoons detailing each factoid filled the pages. Here's an example of a classic page: http://www.ripleys.com/core/answers/w...
Dear Ripleys, This book was really interesting, because I learned facts that I never knew.
The different facts that I learned were like crazy food, different animals, and other not believable but non fiction!
Thank you so much for this great experience reading these books!
So, you will know I will deffinetally be waiting for the next one.
I deffinetally would reccomend this book to anyone who loves interesting facts, adn loves to learn about the living impossible things.
I would rate this book a 4.5 because it was organized, and really fun to read.
This is a nonfiction book!
This book is full of amazing facts and photos. I recommend it to anyone that wants to be freaked out or amazed. I really enjoyed reading this book and it was my highlight of the day.
A light book. ;D
This book was really great. I think that everyone should read it. I can not wait for the next book. I would give this book 10 out of 10 stars.
I have on my shelf the 53rd edition of the original Ripley's Believe it or Not. The 53rd printing was released in August of 1943, and the first statement found when you open the cover is "In order to cooperate with the government's war effort, this book has been made in strict conformity with WPB regulations restricting the use of certain materials.
Babe, who always aims to please, stood at the plate for an hour while several pitchers tossed balls at him which he walloped over the fence - 125 in all."I could quote from this book for hours, and have a great time doing it, but that isn't the purpose here.
Furthermore I also enjoyed the fact that Ripley was so confident of himself and being able to prove it that he would include before the book started his address so that way he could prove whatever you may disbelieve (not many people are too willing to do that).
Unlike the more modern Ripley's books this one had more of the actual tone of the man himself who started a worldwide desire to learn about the strange and what some may turn the bizarre.
What also makes this book interesting is the fact that it combines a bit of his comics along with his stories and some letters from readers sharing their own Believe It or Not!
When I saw this book at the library last week nostalgia kicked in and I checked it out.It was an interesting read, although since this is an exact reprinting of the first Believe It Or Not book, published in 1929, some of the content was quite dated (for example: the fact that a telegram was sent around the world in 8 minutes is no longer amazing).
Ripley comes off a bit prejudiced against some of the cultures he describes, and content in the book seems a bit disorganized at times, but other than that this was a quick and fun read.
Melts Away the YearsIt took the kids of the generation of Robert Ripley to appreciate what he, a kid at heart himself, was releasing in the newspapers and later on any media catching his brand of attraction and curious.
Think it meant to have your wide-eyed view of the world catching fire and making a living at it.
For the kids living on the simple level, Ripley meant bragging rights when you stumped your friends.
Through Ripley, the world became a fascinating place.The younger generation may never understand in our modern times that this book melts away the years with the reprint of the original book.
Ripley's Believe It or Not. Orlando, Florida: Ripley Publishing. 2004. Target Audience: Ages 14-17. Reading Level: 6.6. An eclectic assortment of the amazing, the unusual, and the gross, including fantastic animals, purported alien encounters, and exotic human bodies, living and dead. Short, one-paragraph narratives and sidebars that are easy to read, accompanied by tons of full-color or black-and-white photographs arranged on 247 visually-appealing oversized pages. Eye-catching holograph on front cover. CSULB Class 6 High School Hi-Lo Nonfiction.
ME ENCANTAN LOS LIBROS DE CURIOSIDADES, en especial cuando son documentados, en especial cuando son reales.Mi crítica es que, hoy en día, pasa que algunos se van al extremo solo para aparecer aquí o en los Record Guiness, pero esta edición tan vieja (¡y además pionera!) no es el caso. Además, el otro día leí en el diario que ya no estaban haciendo categorías de cosas que afectaran la salud o las buenas costumbres, jaja.
If there’s such a thing as a ‘coffee table book’ for a classroom then this is probably it. The Ripley’s books are full of mind-blowing facts, feats and photos from around the world. It’s a great book for getting children interested in other countries and cultures, nature and also science. However, I would be inclined to keep it for KS2 children only as I personally think some of the photographs might be a bit scary/uncomfortable for younger children.
This is a great book for boys. This will be freaked out, amazed, intrigued, grossed out, and all those things that appeal to boys. (Ages 7-99 pretty much covers it.)Great photos, lots of colour. Lots of interesting facts and unbelieveable things. Boys cant put it down--great way to get boys to read. Highly recommend all of their books when it comes to boys.
Have you seen something in your life that scares you for life? Well in Ripley's Believe It or Not, you will see many of them. I rated this 5 stars because even though some of the pictures scare you, they mean something to me. But I rated it 5 stars because I thought that it shows what happens in real life. To read this, you need to be brave to believe what you see in the book.
This old paperback sat around grandmother's cottage in Michigan for years. It was, I believe, the umpteenth printing of the first book- length collection of Robert Ripley's cartoon columns and was just recently reprinted yet again. Naturally, as a little kid, I found it fascinating.
I enjoyd reading this book with all his wonderful, funny and rare facts. However it's something you read once , not for every day of course. But i enjoyed it and learned a few facts that i will remember :)
I think this is a really interesting book because it has pictures and stories about crazy things people have done. I really want to go to Ripley's Believe It or Not Museum and see some of these exhibits and more exhibits too!
Great book for kids and adults who've got nothing else useful to do.
finding new things that you might not of ever known about is what will make you wonder about things...
Good and unique book, I read the Indonesian editions. It's contain many unique facts, but a rather bit outdated.
This book tells you the most amazing stuff. J. S.
I grew up reading various "Ripley's" books. Amusing reads, every single time.
very interesting book
Man, the first section was basically every conspiracy theory ever known minus most of the tasteless ones. When the internet was analog...
Cool, nasty, interesting facts that I enjoy reading sometimes.
This book was funny and gross! My favourite part was when the women hade stuff on her tongue. Gret for a book to look at when down.and the pictures are so reel. It's the truth you believe it or not.
The actual version that I read was the 2007 special edition, but no matter how you cut it these books are fun.
