https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47735.Anne_Sexton
Chaotic, theatrical, and exuberant, Anne Sexton's letters chart the peaks and valleys of her turbulent career as a writer: they also give some insight into her relationships with her peers and, more interestingly, her ambivalence towards acquiring a level of fame unprecedented for a poet.
From what this collection portrays anyway, maybe there were more that we aren't privy to.At the beginning, Anne writes with wild abandon - seemingly in love with almost everyone she pens a letter to.
I can only presume that these letters were just a taste of Sexton and even then I sometimes felt like I was going a little mad myself reading them without rest breaks, so I can imagine that her whole, real life self would have been overwhelming for not only herself, but for those people in contact with her.
In some of the letters you really get to know her as a happy person.
But all her letters have a desperation about them that you just want to meet her in person and tell her that all will be fine.
It was when she realized how attractive other men can be that things went wrong and suicidal thoughts plagued her (because she felt so guilty for possibly cheating on Kayo).
I think Kayo should've gone to Europe with her, it might have had a better outcome (also for their marriage).
Again, she might not have said it in so many words, but her letters really allow you to feel her desperation.
(p.105)I do know this – I’m beginning to learn how to love without feeling it necessary to be all things to the person I love.
The soul, is I think, a human being who speaks with the pressure of death at his head.
“the uncommitted life is not worth living.”(p.231)And I say to myself that the trouble with life is that people are strangers.(p.239)Language has nothing to do with rational thought.
I think that’s why I get so horribly furious and disturbed with rational thought.Language is the opposite of the way a machine works.Language is poetry, maybe?
I think language is beautiful.
I had a severe love/hate relationship with this book. I was determined to get through it, but prolonged attempts at reading it would usually result in my throwing the book across the room. Sexton is a tremendous poet, but this collection of her letters brought her lesser qualities into plain view. Normally that's one of the things I appreciate about letter/journal collections, but in this case it worked against my opinion of her.
This is an interesting read, but if you are anything like me, you have to take a break from it every now and then or you will feel like you are going a little bit crazy yourself. It is a very intense trip throught the mind of a brilliant albeit very mental unstable woman.
My review: https://theblankgarden.wordpress.com/...
I want to give this at least four stars, because it was a fascinating read, but the fact that it's edited and put together by her daughter makes me feel somewhat dubious. It's not a rose-colored portrait, but it's the portrait of a daughter. Totally recommended reading though for anyone who likes auto-biographies or Anne Sexton or both.
I'm not sure I'd have wanted to know Anne Sexton personally, but it was wonderful to get this personal glimpse of her private self as presented to friends, family, and colleagues. Charm and craziness co-exist here, as well as intelligence and a passion for her art.
Really, really tough to rate this kind of book. I mean, it's someone's personal letters. I do appreciate that someone saw fit to publish them - they're insightful and help flesh out the woman/human behind the poems.
who's going to kill herself first? Anne Sexton or Sylvia Plath?
I remember this being very good, but I need to read it again now that I'm older.I'm sure the difference in reading this book at 33 with half grown children & half a postsecondary education & 45 with a career & an empty nest is a much greater span of life than just 12 years.I'll likely be really reading it for the first time.
It's a hard read and a slow read, but also a good one.
First bunch of letters is youthful, very recognisable in a way of trying to "happen to the world", as Anne later writes in one of her last letters to her daughter Linda.
All of them are great in being totally unapologetic - not in the words, but in personality.
To get what she wanted.It's good to read this book with her poems nearby for references and with some googling to research other sides of the story.
She's not a person if you look for easy entertainment or idol
I give this book four stars because I honestly do not like Anne Sexton as a person - or as a poet really.
I was very curious about her so I read Anne Sexton: A Biography and found that I didn't care for her as a person.
I suppose I was hoping I might like her after all after having read her correspondence to people she cared about.
I happened to see a book called "Anne Sexton: A Self-Portrait in Letters" on the sale shelf.
Though it took me a while to read the biography, I became fascinated with Anne and all aspects of her life.
The title, in itself, is interesting because it caught my attention, and I had never before read a person's biography that consisted mainly of letters--written to acquaintances and loved ones.
Though I have stopped writing letters, Anne's biography took me back in time and allowed me to live vicariously through her written word.
her letters are manic, self absorbed - ups and downs of mood.As I recall, Plath's letters were sterile, writing about the craft as if it were a self-negating chore of achievement.
Nin wrote about living, loving, sex - how to become a writer by embracing life and Paris.I'm having difficulty getting into the Sexton book because of her focus on herself and the way her mental state impacts her the letters.
It's unnerving to try to absorb and a little unbalanced in that there are no alternative voices (letters in response), and no reasoned narrators to offer perspective.
is she manic?
if the book contained the responding letters, we may discover more of her personality.
I read most of the book, but can't bring myself to rate it.
I had no previous knowledge of Anne Sexton's work, and must admit that I don't have the "poetry gene".
I appreciate poetic language in the form of a well stated idea, I enjoy many song lyrics, but there is something about poetry that I just don't get.
Anne Sexton got it, and her letters reveal a woman who rabidly pursued her art and actively sought to better her words in poetry.
An important book nevertheless.
A collection of letters written by Anne Sexton, edited and annotated by her eldest daughter, Linda, and her closest living friend, the poet Maxine Kumin, illustrated with several photographs. While Sexton's poems are often tangled and mysteriously symbolic, her letters are often exuberant, unabashedly unfiltered, unedited, and wildly passionate. She tends toward words in all capitals, long strings of exclamation points and question marks, and ellipses. A refreshingly honest, often funny, and very human subtext to her poetry.
Anne Sexton was a crazy, brilliant, brash poet. She was also a suburban Boston housewife. I loved how she accepted the conventional (in some measure) in her home life and still created a type of poetry that hadn't existed before. Even more remarkable, she did this almost entirely on her own--without a college degree or much of a writing community of any kind. She just started writing in her kitchen in her spare time.
It was an ever-present memory, unlike any journals or letters that I've read from authors who have unfortunately ended their own lives. In all those other ones, there's always a glimmer of hope that in that moment, someone could have done something and changed it all drastically. But reading this, one gets the feeling that Anne Sexton was born with a block cement tied to her feet, pulling her steadily down throughout her life.
What can I say, I fell in love with Sexton's work at sixteen. As a young poet, she was one of the first to inspire me...with her unruly and unapologetic style. With her poetry, she left the door open to her soul, which I thought was very brave and "awe-striking". She is the queen of confessionalism...and this book of her letters tells her story better than any autobiography ever has...in my opinion. A must-read for Sexton fans!
The more I appreciate myself, the less I have to pretend that I don't love Anne Sexton(being a teenage girl is hard because you're not listened to or taken seriously - especially if you read Sexton and Plath. I had to pretend to love Austen, Charlotte Bronte, George Eliot, even when I didn't/prematurely - just to feel like I had more of a chance of being listened to.)
Sexton's writings were so raw and almost needy sounding, but not in a bad way. You could really get a grasp for what she may have been feeling, and the constant need for validation sort of broke my heart. It was tough to get through, but still worth the read.
gee. scary how much sense her madness makes to me. comforting, at the same time. one thing about her, though: this woman's a fucking machine of a writer! - and so tenderly humble.
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/11040265
RATS LIVE ON NO EVIL STAR
The last hundred pages or so are terrible to read - it's this rapid, weird spiral downwards that is unstoppable. It's sad.
This is the edition I own. The edition I first read was a beautiful library hardcover. I think I'd like a copy like that as well. I love this book in much the same way as I love her poems.
I am wary of Linda Gray. Frieda Hughes is the eminently more trustable of the confessional-poet babies.
I found this book at Rhino Records, used, for $4.99. I was so thrilled and it's at my bedside, waiting to be finished.
