https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32559.The_Fall_of_the_House_of_Usher_and_Other_Tales
I became insane, with long intervals of horrible sanity.  Before reading this book, I had a misconception that Edger Allen Poe was a horror writer. Oh, how wrong I was! Yes, Poe might be known for his stories of macabre and gothic horror. But it was his versatility that I found attractive in his writings. Without much further ado, let's see what this collection holds Macabre/Horror   TRUE! – nervous – very, very dreadfully nervous I had been and am; but why will you say that I AM MAD?  Most of
Yes, Poe might be known for his stories of macabre and gothic horror.
Poe presents some of his signature stories in a unique way: Through the eyes of the killer/ mad man.
Seriously, he was in love with that plot element.Even though all of the above were excellent stories, my favourite in this genre, no, scratch that, in this book is 
Because I had no idea!From WikipediaSeriously, if Poe were not to write these stories, we might have ended up not having a Sherlock Holmes!
I remember reading an exact replica of this story featuring Holmes written by Doyle.
He even writes satire.There were also two other stories.
The "House of Usher", we are told, describes both the family and the mansion itself, and on learning this snippet of information the ending to this story is neatly telegraphed, albeit on an almost subconscious level.Poe is at the height of his powers of description in this tale.
(hide spoiler)]The reader can appreciate the beautiful powerful but haunting descriptions of Nature in this story, and marvel at the narrator's isolation and the increasingly spectral quality of the crew.
The Balloon-Hoax - Wow. That was really boring.Ms. Found in a Bottle - Good suspense, but the ending confused me.A Descent into the Maelstrom - Not too memorable.The Murders in the Rue Morgue - A rather silly Holmes-esque mystery tale.The Purloined Letter - Not bad, but far too wordy.The Black Cat - Deliciously disturbing.The Fall of the House of Usher - Not as interesting as his others, but good atmosphere.The Pit and the Pendulum - A delightful tale of suspense.The Masque of the Red Death - Meh. Weird for no reason and kind of boring.The Cask of Amontillado - I think makes Poe so memorable is his vivid first-person accounts from the point of view of a killer.The Assignation - I couldn't follow this one.
Poe and I enjoyed most of the stories in this collection.
I also hosted a readalong of this collection online on facebook andat the all about books book club on goodreads.
This month from october 20th through tonight we read and discussed the stories by poe that was in this collection along with the novel A narrative of A.
Gordon Pym. It also included my favorite poe story The Masque of the Red Death which I first read in middle school.
The only stories I did not enjoy were diddling and the man that was used up.
I've been slowly working my way through this over the past six months, reading a story here and there.
Initially I was quite daunted by the idea of Edgar Allan Poe, but as I progressed through the collection I found myself relaxing into it and just enjoying the writing.
The Domain of Arnheim and Landor's Cottage, were the only two stories that I found myself having to make an effort to maintain my focus- they were beautifully written though, and not too long.

Sure thing, they died broke, scorned or both, yet in the process gave birth to some of the great works of literature, became a pioneer and initiated many of the conventions that are now considered commonplace in much of today’s horror fiction.Thus, in my exploration (and bid to become the most annoying know-it-all) in matters concerning the horror genre, I looked back and was lead on this dark alleyway, in the hall of one of the most venerable Old Masters of Horror: Edgar Allan Poe.Looking at Poe’s life, one gets a fair idea that the man led a tragic, if not a horrific life.
The opening sequence right away sets-up the mood of the story – “the soundlessness of the autumn day, low-hanging clouds, dreariness of the countryside, waning of the day, the melancholy house itself.” The descriptions are so amazing of the inside of the Usher House which intensifies the impression of gloom and decay given by the outside. Such symbolism too! The way that Roderick’s studio is reached “through many dark and intricate passages” suggest that access to his mind is hidden and convoluted as well. The crafting of the tone is brilliant.
Hearing your name given to literary characters is a weird experience.
I guess I should be thankful I don't have a more common name, like Sarah or Kate or whatever.
Sharing a name with a fictional character doesn't happen to me often - the last one I can remember is The Departed, where the single female character was named Madeline but it didn't really matter because she got called by name a whopping one time - but when it does it's weird.
Especially when you're reading this story by Poe, and the girl in the coffin is named Madeline.
It made the story even creepier than it already was.
(Which considering my love for him, was not an easy choice to make.) I have read it several times over, numerous times out-loud and in scary voices to entertain my little brother :).
It's incredible how Poe can write in this helter skelter fashion so that you really don't know exactly what's going on-- and then in one final paragraph, or even the final sentence, he brings it all together and has you so thoroughly creeped out and simultaneously blown your mind, you need to go back and re-read it immediately.
THE FALL OF THE HOUSE OF USHERIntriguing storyline, beautiful writing style and a great plot twist! I have nothing else to add- I love Poe’s stories!
This story will absolutely freak you out. Of course, you should expect that from the greatest suspense writer of all time.
I am not sure what rating to give to this collection of stories.
On one hand, it has a bunch of well known stories by Poe such as The Murders in the Rue Morgue, The Black Cat, The Fall of the House of Usher, The Pit and the Pendulum, and The Tell-Tale Heart - all of them sit on top for me as the greatest stories by Poe. On the other hand, this book also contained the only full novel by Poe, Narrative of A.
This went on an on and I almost wanted to give up since my book had very small letters, which made it bearable for me to read only few pages per day.
I remember int he past picking up this book and putting it down after reading one short story.
We might conclude that Madeline is just an embodiment of fear and that she might not even exist from the beginning, for she neglects the narrator two times: when she walks in a distant place of the house and when she falls upon her brother.Though art, in this tale, is not very essential for some readers, it might be one of the hidden, and supreme, messages that Edgar Allan Poe wanted to transfer.
“The Fall of the House of Usher” evidently indicates that Roderick Usher’s fictional life is, somehow or other, an identical mirror of Poe’s.Roderick Usher’s fear is inevitably driving him to madness and eventually to a tragic death.
Also, purported as a response to a Poe hoax is completes the bookends with the initial newspaper piece "Balloon-Hoax".In this realm of writing, I find there is science fiction - tales tethered to scientific facts - and science fantasy - fiction with more magical, mystical premises.
Popularily, Poe may be thought more in the fantasy with this "macabre" musings, but really he is more like Jules Verne in that he is tightly bound to a scientific reality, if even he relies on unproven assumptions.
Similarly, in "Masque of the red death" like in 
This is an interesting collection compiled by Signet Classics, including many of Poe's more famous (and gothic) short works such as "The Tell-Tale Heart", "The Masque of the Red Death" and "The Black Cat", as well as the detective stories that some argue inspired Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's famous Baker Street sleuth, "The Murders at Rue Morgue" and "The Purloined Letter".
Off-setting the collection of horror are some of Poe's satirical works, which I had never read: "The Balloon Hoax", "Diddling", and "The Man That Was Used Up".
POE YOU'RE SO CREEP I LOVE IT
"Diddling" was also an interesting find, it's more of an exposition than a story but I enjoyed all the descriptions of the various cons.Poe's only full-length novel, "Narrative of A.
An adventure story and travelogue, it didn't have as much excitement as I was expecting despite having a couple sea voyages with humans braving against the forces of nature, a mutiny, cannabalism, a mysterious island and an encounter with an unknown culture.
Much of the story, though, is bogged down by dry descriptions of the technical aspects of sea voyages, and I found myself skimming through those to get to more interesting parts.
Then, the narrator reads a story to Roderick to help take his mind off of his sister’s death.
Everything that happens in the story starts happening in the mansion.Madeline comes back to life and she comes into the room.
Roderick dies in that fall.
The whole house comes crashing down and disappears into the sea, almost like it was never there.I thought the story was interesting and a little bit creepy.
I think a lot of Edgar Allan Poe’s stories are a little creepy and scary and they make you think.Anyone who likes those things would enjoy reading his stories and books.(less)

Ho dovuto leggere questi racconti con la luce accesa e, in alternativa, di giorno, perché si, Poe con la suspance ci sa fare eccome, sa come impressionare, come far rabbrividire, come colpire il lettore nelle sue paure più profonde.
Questi racconti mettono veramente Paura, con la P maiuscola, o almeno a me l’hanno messa un bel po’… ma per quanto io sia impressionabile una cosa non ho proprio sopportato: il finale di ogni racconto è sempre mega-iper-veloce!
Finisce sempre col narratore o che scappa, o che tira le cuoia, o che non parlerà più del fatto accaduto, tutto in 10 righe massimo!
i don't like this book because it don't have alot of details.it will be better if they ztick to one story and finish it.i recooened this book to the people who like scary stories.it will be also good if you read it at halloween.after i read this book i couldn't sleep.
2 Stars... meh.The only thing saving this particular edition, was The Pit and the Pendulum and the Black Cat. Nice and creepy, with some crazy thrown on top.The downside, was the full length novella of Narrative of A Gordan Pym. Utterly boring.
Poe's verbiage wafts through the air like the sound of a beautiful harp. His description of the Usher Manor paints a picture so clear that you can't help but feel you have been there. Could a tortuous haunting, so relentless, drive an inhabatant into madness?
I wish I could rate the individual stories. Some I loved others not so much. It was fun to revisit these at Halloween.
fantastic story
Absolutely mind-blowing!! Reading it is learning how to become insane without actually going through it all!! Absolute perfection!!
4,5
Good ol' creepy Poe. A classic.
TRE-MEN-DO
