https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76946.The_Haunted_Fort
A real sausage fest that was about as interesting as watching paint dry. High point was use of the word "hootenanny."
This was a pretty good book. Although, I have read better. It was a short book but also a page turner. I would recommend this book to people that like mystery.
It's business as usual for this series...which isn't a bad thing.
Pretty good action adventure for the Hardy boys. I kept picturing Ft. Ticonderoga in my mind when the author was describing the fort.I'm sure juvenile boys would enjoy this quaint tale, but I wonder just how many would know what 'vittles', 'hootenanny' and 'Jiminy' meant?! :)
I was recently thinking about The Haunted Fort and how it was the first book to really make an impression on me.
Since I've been re-reading some novels from my high school years, I decided to go a little farther back to see how the Hardy Boys held up 4o years later.
The story revolves around a deserted (and possibly haunted) fort, a hidden treasure, and art thieves.
Nearly every chapter ends with a cliffhanger; either the Hardys are in peril or they uncover a new twist in the plot.
That reminder, just as much as the story itself, made reading The Haunted Fort worthwhile to me.
The Hardy Boys and Nancy Drew are the first series that I remember reading. I was still in elementary school, but I remember thinking I was reading more grown up books because these were long (more than 20 pages, lol) and there was more than one book you could read with the same main characters! The innocence of these mysteries and recalling my own innocence just makes me happy. All parents should give their kids Hardy Boys and Nancy Drew when they're young - only good things can come of it.
Book recommendation paragraphHave you ever been invited to a mystery about a special case? in the book the hunted fort By Franklin W. Dixon, Joe and Frank Hardy got invited to a really big mystery. In this is when Chet said, “do you think Gilmore is interested in that gold chain”. so, he is basically asking if Gilmore wanted that gold chain. he reasons I recommend this book is because if you like mystery than you would love this book.
To be honest, I can't remember exactly which of the Hardy Boys series I read as a kid (it was that long ago). But I do remember going to my grandma's house and she had several of them on a shelf, and I liked reading them. Old school YA.
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
A little less predictable and formulaic than some of the other Hardy Boys books, this one kept us guessing (even Mom).
it was the creepiest book I have ever read. it was so good that I was so excited to see what would happen next that I would not put the book down.
The boys seemed less interested in this one. Too much historical context that went over their heads.
This was a great one! Finally Chet has something a little more to do again, and between the art and the treasure and the rest of it, pretty good.
I just read the book The Haunted Fort by Franklin W.
These books make the reader keep reading, these books have so many places with a suspense part.
Dixon) makes the reader keep thinking and reading.
When they find the golden chain they tell the police and the owner of the school.The reason why I would recommend reading this book is because the book keeps you reading and thinking about what will happen.
I liked this book because I just love the suspense in this book.
The author just loves to add so much suspense in his books.
This all begins with the theft of a few paintings at an art school ran by Chet's uncle Jim, and the Hardy's are in for a new case.
This one is quite different from the others, in that there are several situations/accidents that happen, where both Hardy's and even Chet could have died, if not as smart as they are.
During one scene, he uses the word "holocaust" to describe a destruction of property.
This book was published in 1964, so the author used a poor choice of words, in my opinion.
So do yourself a favor, mentally change that word to destruction and move on.
I thought this book was really good but, not as exciting as I hoped.
There were many interesting parts, but the book still felt a little dry.
I'm not saying I hate the book I'm just saying I've read better.
Some parts in there could have been better.
I thought the writing was difficult, but not to to difficult to misunderstand.
Although I did enjoy the book the series and I shall continue to read the series.
Finally, I honestly think you'll enjoy this book since everybody doesn't have the same tatse in reading plus, it's a great book.
The book that I read in class was The Hunted Fort.
I thought it was pretty good book the thing that I liked about it was that there was a lot of action parts threw out the book it was interesting and it made me not wanting to stop reading it.
One of the parts that I liked the most was the car chase it was like it was really happening.
Another part that I like was when they where at the lake and the were like looking and watching over the fort then all asundin this person just like floats a cros
I thought it was pretty good book the thing that I liked about it was that there was a lot of action parts threw out the book it was interesting and it made me not wanting to stop reading it.
One of the parts that I liked the most was the car chase it was like it was really happening.
On a scale one threw ten I would give it a eight.
I am going to try to read more of there book and maybe I will even buy some more.
I would suggest this book to other kids that like action and thrill.
Frank and Joe Hardy have been invited by Chet's uncle to solve the mystery at an art school just across the lake from an old French and Indian Battle Fort.
When art from the Prisoner-Painter's collection that hold a secret to find hidden treasure goes missing, the boys must find the thief or thieves behind it all and find the legendary treasure hidden within the fort.
I just have a soft spot for all things written back in the good old days.
This book reminds me a lot of Nancy Drew's mystery stories.
It was a good book.
The Hardy Boys along with Chet Morton take a trip to an artist enclave somewhere in New England.
They are invited by Chet's uncle, who is an art instructor at the enclave, to investigate mysterious happenings at a nearby fort.
As is customary in this series, spine tingling adventure ensues.Although probably not my favorite Hardy Boys book, this is definitely a good story.
It seems the ghost writer had fairly decent knowledge of the French and Indian War as well as various terms used to describe a fort from that era.
On the downside, Frank, Joe and Chet were the only characters with major roles in this book.
Joe is a strong kid that goes around solving mysteries.
When I read this book, I thought about how cool it would be to be a mystery solver, and what problems you would face on the journey.
You feel like Joe is bringing you along on the journey.
The book was filled with action, adventure, and mystery.
I liked that you can’t figure out the mystery until the last chapter.
I liked this book more than other books in this series because it was the most action packed and most adventurous.
If you like mystery and action books, then pick this book up right now!
I think people should read the Haunted Fort. They should read this book because there is a lot of supspense,and mysteries that happen one after another. For example, the mystery the Hardy Boys were trying to solve is, who kept steeling the prisoner painter's paintings from Fort Senandaga, and the museums. But, as they were looking through the Fort there wwere strange noises, ghost appearing, and people were trying to kill the Hardy Boys. But they solved the mystery and nobody was hurt, it was a good book.
I debated giving this book 3 or 4 stars because it's so formularic but decided to go for the higher rating since this Hardy Boys book was better than the others I've read.
Frank and Joe Hardy travel to Crown Lake in New England with their friend Chet to a summer art school where Chet's uncle Jim is an instructor.
Someone is stealing famous paintings of the nearby old French fort ruins.
The fort itself seems to be haunted but the reader will know that that's because there are rumors of a hidden treasure there that was hidden centuries ago.
The mystery is so full of trickery and I have never read a book with so much trickery. I can't give away so much about the book but what I can tell you is a gang steals famous paintings. It is said that one has a clue about a treasure which is a chain made of pure gold. Then after noticing their friend Chet had a surprise. The Hardy's were hired to go travel to England and track it down. You need to read this book.
This was a very good book with lots of action and adventure. Franklin W. Dixon does a very good job of giving you clues about the conclusion of the book while building up suspense. This book is mainly about the Hardy boys (Frank and Joe) going to an art school and finding out about a mystery on a seemingly haunted fort. They learn about a painter who was held captive in this fort, learned about a treasure and hid clues to it in his paintings and frames.
By the 44th book the Hardy boys and trusted friend Chet are apparently completely numb to several attempted murders. Also I never understood how exactly you bound your captives with a belt and then how you manage to get to the police without your pants falling off. All else aside, I still have a guilty pleasure in the Hardy Boys.
This was a much better installment of the Hardy Boys series, mainly because we had suspects to play with and not just some random spy who turns up at the end. Again, the writer is trying to teach us something, from the American Civil War to artistry, but on the whole this was a pretty good read for kids.
Pulled this off the shelf on a whim - still a fun read. Undeniably propulsive style - reliably a cliffhanger every 10 pages - and as exciting as I remember. Plot is, of course, preposterous, but what insane person reads a Hardy Boys mystery for the realism?
My first and only hardy boys I clearly recall (maybe because the rest I read were so similar to each other that I always ended up comparing to this one - or maybe just because it was first). This had long enough twisted stories for the age I read it (9-10).
The classic boy detectives by Frank Dixon--I read ALL of them in my younger years, one I ran out of Nancy Drew books. The Hardy Boys, Frank and Joe, are brother amateur detectives, aspiring to follow in their father's footsteps.
The book that opened the flood gates. I proceeded to read the previous 43, and haven't stopped reading since. All disparagers of serial writing factors will be shown the door. Joe and Frank kick ass with a jalopy and skiff to match!
