https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/242650.Currahee_
It is imperative that you read the introduction by Martin Blumenson since it sheds some light on one or two inconsistencies (if you're the nit-picking type), taking into account that the author, as a frontline soldier, wasn't always aware of the bigger picture and is recounting events as he himself remembers them.
If ever you've harboured some doubt that war is indeed hell, then this book should set you straight fairly quickly.
It's often a harrowing read, especially since the events are (for the most part) depicted rather dispassionately.As an intimate, first hand, account of men at war, I doubt if you could go wrong with this novel.
This was a fast paced, quick read that I enjoyed.
It's the first book in a series of 4 telling the author's story of being a paratrooper with the 101st Airborne during WWII.
This book covers his initial jump training, his time leading up to D-Day, D-Day itself, and the subsequent battles that followed over the next few days.
The author doesn't delve into bigger issues or about the war as a whole.
He simply tells you what he himself went through, so it's very action-packed.
He doesn't hold anything back, so he relates gory details also.
I look forward to reading his subsequent books
Excellent memoir, honestly written, truly a no holds barred look at training and the fighting in Normandy as seen by Burgett. Highly recommended.
This is a very good first-hand account of a paratrooper's training and combat with the 101st Airborne before and during the early days of the European invasion. Donald Burgett shares graphic descriptions of battles and their aftermath, and these memories are the "highlights" of the book, emphasizing the atrocities of war without glorifying them. It serves as a useful parallel narrative to the more-known Band of Brothers, covering similar timeframes and battles but without overlapping personnel.
My first serious introduction to WWII, read in 2015. John Keegan in The Second World War gives the reader an excellent and balanced one-volume analysis of this crucial historical conflict. At 500 plus pages, it is not a short read. However, it is presented with a clear prose and provided me, as a beginner, enough material to understand the events and inspired me for further readings.
This is an excellent memoir! The author tells his story from his military training as a paratrooper to fighting battles he was in during World War II in Normandy. I felt that his way of telling his own story made it more real to me.
Some of the things he saw and survived were brutal and his luck was phenomenal, especially when you read all 4 of his books.
People ding Burgett for the stripped-down style of his writing, but the narrative tells you everything you need to know without dwelling on things that would make any normal person insane if they did so.
There is none of the raw anger that drips from Audie Murphy's "To Hell and Back", but you feel Burgett's rage against the casual slaughter perpetrated by the Germans and his wonder over his survival when so many of his friends die around him.
Don Burgett takes the reader on an interesting odyssey of recruiting, training and deploying paratroopers in World War II in Currahee!
It was a standard of such high excellence that it was never to be achieved again in the Airborne.Burgett takes us through the demanding training and the evolving culture of this new breed of warriors.
The 506th Parachute Infantry Regiment lived up to its motto, Currahee (We stand alone, together).This book has some photos and decent maps and is a must read for those interested in D-Day, paratroopers or World War II in Europe.
The author of this memoir was a paratrooper in WWII.
In this book he tells his story of going thru training and how incredibly tough they were on people.
Shocking how many people died during training.
He also talks about the paratrooper mindset where you didn't get attached to people around you because you never knew who might get killed next.
A couple parts that stood out to me was when he talked about while they were training in England a very pretty young woman who didn't think she was being watched took off her shoes, waded into a stream, and drowned herself.
Now imagine you are sitting in this diner with a guy who volunteered to jump out of a plane behind enemy lines, and who did in fact invade France.
You get brilliant stories of human strength and courage.
How anybody could survive what Burgett went through is beyond human reason.
Also, frankly, the narrator's description of his thoughts and actions describe a kind of survival mode that probably wouldn't have allowed for the kind of Hollywood internal struggles that I usually assume accompany warfare.
But then again, the guy invaded France, so he's probably the real deal.
Currahee is one of the best books that I have ever read.
For a book on World War II, it is the best one that I have ever read.Burgett is a natural story teller who brings you right into the training of a paratrooper (that might be correct, I'm not good with military terminology) and then onto the bloodstained country of France during D-day and the several days that were after it.He goes into just enough detail to keep you reading but without going into long explanations.
This reads almost as a diary.
Burgett takes you from his training to become a paratrooper, to his life in England while waiting for the Normandy jump, to D-Day and the close fighting with Nazis that ensued in the days after.
You feel like you are there in all the confusion and fighting amongst the hedges.
Burgett doesn't even use chapters to separate towns, battles or days.
However, this adds to the feeling of being there because it's likely that Burgett was so overwhelmed that each battle and town just meshed together to create one big blur.
Looking forward to reading his other three.
Donald Burgett wrote 4 books about his experiences as a paratrooper.
This is the first book.
It is about training and his first combat jumping into France on D-Day. This is a great book from the private's point of view.
If you want to know what the war was like throw out Stephen Ambrose and read this.Mr. Burgett produced a video series in the last few years about his returning to Europe to visit the sites of his old videos.
You order right from Mr. Burgett and the proceeds go directly to him.
Ah Currahee; this book started it all...
During 8th grade (a kid who hated reading) I picked this book to end the year on.
This book was the greatest book I have ever read I stayed up all night (school night) reading this book.
This book got me started on reading.
Donald R.
Burgett can write this series of novels takes you through the entire 101st tour from Normandy to Germany.
It's not just a war story but a greater legend.
Highly recommend this war series, make your son read it and who knows maybe he will thank you for it.
Not as good as the other books I've read about the 101st, but this one was written 41 years ago before the whole "Band of Brothers" thing took off... Very interesting, pretty blunt and plain-spoken - makes you look at these guys as regular old human beings just like the rest of us. I think after watching Band of Brothers so many times I've sort of come to identify these men as their characters in the movie - but they're actual men who had the same fears and short-comings and desires as I do. This book made that very plain.
This book should be required reading for all American citizens. Like E.B. Sledge's "With the Old Breed", "Currahee" opens the civilian's eyes to at least a glimpse of how difficult war is. It also gives one insight as to why we won World War II--because the guys doing most of the combat had been trained under excruciating circumstances and had volunteered for the toughest airborne units.The bravery of these men (most around 19-20) should never be forgotten. They went up against the World's most formidable army and won.
I really appreciate that it was written in a very clear and direct manner with anecdotes at appropriate places. Near the end it got a little tedious with the military descriptions but the stark details of what it was like more than made up for it. It definitely gave me a different perspective of the 101st and made me realize how terribly young all of these enlisted men were. I'd definitely recommend to any fan of Band of Brothers.
We actually bought this book in Normandy at Utah Beach, when the author was there over Memorial Day weekend doing a book signing. The book is a really good account of one person's experience during D-Day. It gives a lot of insight into what it might have been like to be there, although I don't think anyone that wasn't there will ever be able to really understand. I highly recommend this book to everyone.
Read the "praise for" page in the beginning of each book.They say it much more accurately than I could. Four booksin this series (Currahee!, The Road to Arnhem, Seven Roads to Hell, and Beyond the Rhine), read them all. If you can't wade through all four books, at least read the last sentence in the last book.This series makes a good contrast to Churchill's "Second World War" which describes the overview of the war.
This is the story of Donald Burgett, a nineteen year old Paratrooper with the 101st Airborne Division in World War II. Burgett's discriptions of battle are fascinating and brutal, especial those of the chaotic drops and heavy loads carried by the paratroopers. I also found very interesting his story of an Asian-American doctor in combat and his description of a medical evacuation from the Normandy beachhead.
Wow, just finished this read. It was recommended and given to me by a good friend who has a history major from Purdue University. He was right, this book puts you in the thick of battle during the Invasion of Normandy a few hours before "D DAY"!You live the fighting, the action, the fear and the sorrow in real time. The conclusion is sweet victory. The book is endorsed by Eisenhower as "a fascinating first person tale of combat, courage and endurance!"BRAVO...what a book!
I give Currahee 5 stars it was an excellent book and a quick read but it pictured the true horror of war and how lucky he was because during training his whole squad died in a plane crash and he only survived cause he was injured. I suggest this book to all that have as much interest in the 101'st airborne as I do.
I remember the Bantam edition fondly from my youth, which I *think* was called As Eagles Screamed or something dramatic like that. Burgett's books are pretty good, but they are all dreadfully short and need to be combined into one volume. As first-hand accounts from veterans go, this one is pretty evocative of the Normandy drop, probably his best, which ain't sayin' all that much.
The first "serious" book I ever read. As a kid, still reading comic books, I found a first publication copy on my father's book shelf. I've lost count how many times I've read it over the years. Great book.
I read this as a Reader's Digest Condensed version in 68 or 69. Loved it. Then re-read it in my 30's after experience as a paratrooper. Should have left it alone. "The Devils in Baggy Pants" is a much better book and E.B Sledge's "With the Old Breed" is just haunting.
Set in 1943, the author enlisted as a paratrooper. This book is a record of his encounter with war. The book has humor, pathos and it has violence and horror. I'd say it's quite a book if you care for this genre. I think it may be an entirely too accurate portrayal about of WWII.
Good book that helps fill in some additional information about the 101st at Normandy. If you like Band of Brothers you need to read this one also... get balanced..
this book is great i recommend this to everyone
The best first person account of the Normandy jump. Bar-none.
Another great book about the 101 air born! And the horrors of war.
