https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/530561.The_Fly_on_the_Wall
My father-in-law was a fan of Hillerman's.
When he died over a decade ago, I read several of the books he had & remembered liking them, but not being wowed.
I have to say that this one surprised me.
Hillerman handled some very tough themes about reporting, truth, & integrity.
Right & wrong blurred the deeper the reporter dug & the ending was full of wonderful surprises.
There was a realistic quality throughout, too.
He's a good man that does his best under some trying circumstances & does pretty well, though.The reading was well done, too.
In reading it a second time, I'm really grateful for authors like Tony Hillerman.
"The Fly on the Wall" is a lot different than his books with the tribal personalities, Leaphorn and Chee.
This is a very different book than the others.I picked up this novel expecting it to be the second of Hillerman's Chee and Leaphorn Navajo mysteries.
I'm guessing (but it's only a guess) he wrote this book while waiting to see if The Blessing Way, the first Navajo book, was successful enough to justify his going on with the series.This story centers around John Cotton, a political reporter at an unidentified midwestern state capitol.
Very different book than other Hillerman's.
Not much New Mexico/Arizona in here, but a very good mystery novel. I'd say detective, but the prime investigator is a reporter. It's a very good read.
This mystery is the second one published by Hillerman, after his first mystery set in Navajo country, The Blessing Way.In the Fly on the Wall, John Cotton is a statehouse reporter and has just filed his story when a colleague comes into the pressroom.
Merrill McDaniels, known as Mac, comes into file his story, but he’s a little drunk and Cotton offers to file something for him and tell his editor he went home sick.
A few minutes later a man enters and rummages through Mac’s desk looking for his notebook, telling Cotton that Mac forgot it and sent his friend for it.
I was introduced to native Oklahoman Tony Hillerman, author of The Fly on the Wall, by one of my favorite senior citizens, a 93 years young Okie-born lady.
As a transplant myself, it’s good to pick up a bit of the local flavor.
The Fly on the Wall was written in 1971, so as a political-mystery-thriller, it’s a bit dated.
The main character, a reporter investigating a friend and colleague’s suspicious death was renting a typewriter of all things.
Plan to sample more by Hillerman; my friend has a big stack by him.
Probably more like 3.5. This is a very dated story. There are some very well drawn scenes, but there is also way too much political background. In these days of corporate owned media and pitifully depleted newsrooms, it just seems quaint. Intrepid ace reporter tracking down political corruption? Perhaps 30 years ago. Now, not so much.
I have put off reading The Fly on the Wall for a long while, since it’s the only mystery Hillerman wrote that is not about his great detectives Joe Leaphorn and Jim Chee.
As it turns out, The Fly on the Wall is one of Hillerman’s strongest efforts, and I thoroughly enjoyed it.The novel follows John Cotton, a political reporter at the Kansas state capitol.
Even though The Fly on the Wall is not a part of Hillerman’s famous and excellent Navajo series, it is still written by Tony Hillerman and is thus a fantastically entertaining read for his fans.
Unfortunately, it's not a very good book.
Much of the plot consists of him entirely ignoring blatantly obvious signals that something's going on, talking to people he shouldn't, and not talking to people he should.
Now, even with that, the plot is a bit interesting.
But, the ending of the book is so bad that I had to drop it another star.
Unless I'm misinterpreting Hillerman's ending, it seems like he's saying that politics excuses corruption and murder.
But, with how the protagonist acts at the end, I can only rate the book at a Not Very Good 2 stars out of 5.
The hook works, but the story slows in the first half when Cotton is doing his investigative journalism digging for facts and when he explains how the state capitol political pecking order works.
This is important detail, but it slows the pace.
That pace picks up greatly once Cotton becomes the target of very dangerous people.Even though this is dated (technologically), the topic is surprisingly timely, considering all the money in state and national politics.
I'm glad I picked this up.
This is not one of the Navajo novels...it is a political story with lots of the 'dirty politics' that make my head spin.
The protagonist is a newspaper reporter on the 'capitol beat' in his state; he gets involved after the suspicious death (attributed to suicide) of a co-worker.
Someone is looking for the dead man's reporter's notebook.
Even with the notebook, there are many questions to be answered.
I found the story to be a little long and drawn out, and the details of the corruption were hard for me to keep track of (and by today's standards, they seemed very minor!).
Boy, I was really getting into this investigative journalist/crime solver mystery until the end.
This involves politics in Washington DC (I think?) and the governors of New Mexico (I think) and some other governors and political type people and some lawyers and some contractors and some newspaper people.
The journalist part of developed well - the writer going around, uncovering information of fraud and deceit and then finding out who the bad guys are, all the while being a target himself.
As far as a crime/mystery story, this really is a 3 but I gave it a 4 for the journalist slant.
When I see a book I haven’t yet read by Tony Hillerman I quickly snatch it up, because I love his Navajo stories, so was surprised to find that ‘The Fly on The Wall’ was vastly different from the others as it deliberately focuses on an ace reporter and a dead colleague’s notebook in an unknown capitol city.
It then dawned on me that this story was one of Mr. Hillerman’s early works, and at one time, he was a reporter, so all was made clear.
The story was sufficiently interesting throughout, though it did not quite live up to my anticipation of a captivating read.

Picked this up for a quarter at the library--read it on the bus in only three trips. It's an early Hillerman and not a Jim Chee story. I enjoyed the robustness of this example of Hillerman's writing as a younger man (his later books are entertaining but often don't feel as taut and energetic as this one did). Also liked the fact that the ending was less predictable than I'd anticipated. Definitely a good chilling-out book.
This was a fun, fast read. It might be a bit dry for readers who are not interested in political thrillers and state-level politics, but it is well thought out and well paced. Mr. Cotton is a bit more naive than I would have expected, given his resume, but had he been quicker to figure out that his life was in danger, the story might have been quite a bit different.
Color me surprised. When I saw a Tony Hillerman book that I hadn't read, I eagerly snatched it up. Turns out that this is one of his earlier books written when he was a reporter and it's full of political intrigue and the dirt that can be associated with the political process when it goes awry. Take me back to the Navajo books please.
meh... I like his south-west / Navajo stuff much better... this was a bit naive, contrived, boring, predictable... blah blah blah - at about page 98 I said to myself "if this doesn't pick up soon, I'm dumping it" - well, it did pick up, but not by much. I managed to finish it, but was disappointed in the resolution (or lack thereof)... on to something better, I hope!!
Since Tony Hillerman is known for his books set in the Four Corners, I was taken off guard when the setting was in an unnamed state in the Midwest. There is a side trip to Santa Fe and reminiscing about the main character's childhood there, but otherwise the book is set in snow and sleet. Overall a good thriller book with sufficient twists and turns to keep my interest.
Not the most original, but The Fly on the Wall was entertaining for the most part and had likeable characters, a fast-paced writing style and vivid vocabulary.
I really like this book! It opened my eyes to political intrigue and how things are in politics.
I didn't feel that there was very much substance to this book; that may be partly because I have very little interest in politics, and a distrust and faint disgust with both politics and news reporting.Our main character is a political news reporter in a mid-west city.
There is kind of a morality/choices thing going on with what you report and the effect it might have and whether a reporter should pick and choose etc.
I think politics is chock full of crooks and reporting is biased; both are for purchase.
Being a massive fan of the Leaphorn / Chee series I really looked forward to this however in my opinion it wasnt a patch on it.
The book tried to raise a lot of moral questions regarding the harm and duty in investigative reporting and you could tell Hillerman had been a reporter.I've now read all of the Tony Hillerman books as started with the Leaphorn / Chee series and loved working my way through them so I'm glad I didnt start with this as otherwise I probably wouldnt have bothered reading anymore.
This is the only Hillerman book I've read that didn't feature Leaphorn; it drew me in every bit as much as the Leaphorns, proving to be a page turner.Two things that intrigued me most were not knowing for a good portion of the book what the "big" story was about, and not knowing who could be trusted.
I distrusted everybody for at least a little while!Besides being a little bit confused about the details of the scam, I really enjoyed this book.If I weren't already a huge Hillerman fan, this book would have made one of me.
This book was copyrighted in 1971, and the protagonist, John Cotton, is a man from a by-gone era. He relates to Walter Lippmann's concept of "the newsman as 'the fly on the wall,' seeing all, feeling nothing, utterly detached, utterly objective." A colleague suggests, "How about making a selection sometimes of facts they [the public] can handle--giving them what's good for them?" Cotton thought that was playing God. He still believed "that man was more than a biped shorn of feathers, that the public, given some information, could govern itself."
Unlike Hillerman's Navaho mysteries, this story takes place in D.C. The main character is a news reporter who is originally from out west. He is uncovering the truth about a story as well as the truth about the story of a woman he's attracted to. What really is his job as a reporter? Throughout his seeking he finds himself in mortal danger where he uses his wits and luck. He's a man without super powers. The plot is intriguing and the characters are rich. I very much enjoyed this book.
This is an enjoyable book. The plot is good, the characters believable. The story involves digging through paperwork to figure corruption. The story has been bypassed by technological advances since it's 1971 writing. That said, it's a convoluted suspense tale. Yes, it's a non-Navajo story set in a nameless state capitol. It shows a lot of research that went unused in subsequent Navajo books for which he is famous.
I have intended to get to this author for many years now. I am glad I finally did so. Even if much of the style of reporting is dated (teletypes, etc.), journalistic ethics should always stay in style. Especially in light of today's "fake news" and FOX.I look forward to reading more of Hillerman as he can tell a story, keep it interesting, and pack a surprise at the end.
Early Hillerman mystery focusing on a reporter exposing state government corruption. Way too much discussion of fraud and kickbacks relating to construction projects. I don’t much care how double charging for cement works.No Indian cops, which is what Hillerman was very good at.
The main character Jhon was a reporter in his time and Mc Daniel was a drug addict that doesn't like to be around people that are drunk. Although he turned into a fly it seamed as if he became a spy with speachial powers to travel throught the contios of people.
*3.4/5
