https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31391.For_the_Sake_of_Elena
I have to say the ending of her series always gives a curve ball and there is always action there.
Now I have to say that even though I do not feel that there is not enough action, I really do enjoy them.
I love the main characters in this series and they are becoming old friends.Elena Weaver is a beautiful, sexually precocious, and extremely troubled student at St. Stephens College in Cambridge.
Detective Inspector Thomas Lynley is assigned to the case, along with his longtime partner, Sergeant Barbara Havers.
A very slutty deaf girl is bludgeoned to death whilst jogging near her Cambridge college.
Was the killer one of her lovers?
Was it a misogynistic Shakespeare professor with an enormous penis?
Was it her frigid, Stepfordesque stepmother?
Will we have to explore the artistic feud between Whistler and Ruskin, and dissect much facile gibberish about art and the creative impulse before the unlikely murderer with even unlikelier motivations is revealed?
George researches her topics diligently (deaf politics, art, jazz), writes about them somewhat less successfully; the whiff of the neophyte clings to them.
Meanwhile Havers is dealing with her mother's rapid descent into dementia.I'm getting a little tired of the author's fixation on the bodies of middle-aged women who have "let themselves go".
We hear all about their crow's feet, thickening waists, drooping breasts and sagging flesh, while their middle-aged husbands seem to be merely burdened with lined faces and greying hair.This is the first of these books where I can plainly see the value of value of Lynley's partnership with Havers.
There's also some lighthearted banter between them, and Havers isn't quite as caustic.
(#5 in the Lynley-Havers Series)Elizabeth George does it again.
Lynley and Havers are brought in to investigate bringing in personal problems of their own.
Lynley is trying to win Helen over.
Havers is desperately trying not to feel guilty about having to put her mom in a home and she is doing everything she can to delay it.
George does a wonderful job giving us lessons on marriage and family.
I really enjoy the way George writes.
Solving the murder is always the main focus but George does a great job developing various characters through out the story.
Waiting till after buddy read to rate.
Her parents wouldn’t let her learn how to sign until she was in her teens because they wanted her to live a “normal” life, her friend from the campus Deaf Student Group gave her shit because she didn’t embrace Deaf culture as whole-heartedly as he thought she should have, everyone always referred to her as “that little deaf girl,” etc.
Her portrayal of marginalized people who have rejected mainstream culture in favor of their own is stereotyped in the extreme; she has some sympathy for the Deaf Student club member who was friends with Elena, but when she briefly touches on lesbianism in a side-plot?
For a long time I really liked Elizabeth George but eventually her plots became....more taxing than I was willing to read....kind of bizarre.
This one was the first I ever read and I really liked it; this time, much less so.
It can be quite inevitable that some American writes, writing about England or the UK make some glaring errors that constantly irritate and this is one.The issue of 'upper class' titles is one that always seems to cause confusion; throughout the series, Helen is inevitably referred to as 'Lady Helen', which is her own hereditary title.
16 Hours 27 MinsDescription: Elena Weaver, in her skimpy dresses and bright jewellery, exuded intelligence and sexuality.
A student at St Stephen's College, Cambridge, she lived a life of casual but intense physical and emotional relationships, with scores to settle and targets to achieve.
Until someone, lying in wait on the bank of the River Cam, where Elena went running every morning, bludgeoned the young woman to death.
Called into the rarefied world of academia, Inspector Thomas Lynley and his partner Barbara Havers find a tangled skein of love, obsession and desire -- a maelstrom of emotion that has claimed Elena Weaver's life.
Fifth in the Inspector Lynley detective mystery series set in modern-day England and revolving around Tommy Lynley, eighth Earl of Asherton, and his Scotland Yard partner, Barbara Havers.My TakeIt all comes down to love of one's craft, love for another, but mostly, love for one's self and how it affects everyone around us.
I have no objection to interpreting what you think their reasons were, but do not propound that this is the absolute truth of its creation!I just love George's Inspector Lynley series.
A side plot involving a young couple bucking the expectations of society provides further illumination on love.An important pair of characters is Pen and Harry, Lady Helen's sister and brother-in-law.
This has been my least favorite of the series so far.
In fact, I would go so far as to say it was almost a deal breaker for me.
If the following book in the series is more like this that the earlier books I am afraid I will not be back for the next.
There was way to much psychologizing and development of things that didn't relate to the mystery.
The mystery itself was to easy to figure out, plus motive was implausible.
Despite all the time spent developing characters and analyzing them, none of them really came to life.
All of George's books that I've read so far have been immensely enjoyable, but this one went above and beyond for me as a reader.
Thomas Lynley and Barbara Havers BOTH experienced important character growth, something we haven't really seen since the first book in the series.
Also: what an unexpectedly fantastic commentary on women and sexism this book contained, one which really struck a chord in me, as it probably would with any woman who reads this.
This book was published in 1992, and it may as well have been published in 2014 for the messages and commentary it contains.
I finally managed to get back to reading the next Elizabeth George book in her Inspector Lynley series after the huge block that hit me after reading the previous book, “A Suitable Vengeance”.
The reading block was because I’m not fond of mid-series books that provide me with character background all in one go.
Anyway, “A Suitable Vengeance” was painful to finish and it’s taken me this long to want to attempt to read another of George’s books.
Elizabeth George is great at working through the complex emotions of her characters.
Glad I resisted my stubbornness to read another Lynley book and picked this one up.

This seemed a little longer than her other Detective Lynley novels, or perhaps it just took me longer to read.
I enjoyed this one quite a bit.
The setting at Cambridge University was enjoyable and the emphasis on the arts added a nice element.
George always does a wonderful job of weaving her characters personal lives into the fabric of the mystery and this novel was no exception.
A deeper look into the lives of Lynley & Lady Helen as well as some pivotal points regarding Havers and her mother entices the reader to continue the characters journey of self discovery.
*re-read*Zwischendurch war es ab und an etwas langatmig und hat die Spannung gebremst - trotzdem wieder ein fesselnder Fall und vor allem eine gelungene Weiterentwicklung im Privaten bei Seargant Havers! Lynley war mir hier eindeutig zu fordernd in der Beziehung - und auch selbstsüchtig. Das ist mir früher beim Lesen gar nicht so aufgefallen ^^
My introduction to Elizabeth George was with this book. I loved it and was hooked immediately. I went on to read every single Lynley book and I have not been disappointed.
Pen's decision to nurse her new infant despite her increasing realization she no longer can handle being the sole caretaker and only parent while her husband spends all of his time working away from their house, along with Harry's complete abnegation of his responsibilities as a father and husband, brought Helen to the house to help out.
The Rodger house is in Cambridge, where the murder of Elena has taken place.
She does not want to make the decision to place Mum into an assisted living home.Lynley and Havers are SO glad Elena was murdered!
One of the best yet in Elizabeth George's "Inspector Lynley" series, this mystery novel takes place during the present day at Cambridge University, eight months after the events in Well-Schooled in Murder (the intervening book, A Suitable Vengeance, being a prequel to the series).
Lynley reminds me here and there of a modern-day Lord Peter Wimsey (high praise indeed, I assure you) and it was interesting to compare terminology and other little things between Cambridge in this book and Oxford in Sayers' Gaudy Night ("combination room" vs.
So that's how Lynley and Lady Helen finally became a couple.
Elizabeth George never leaves her characters without something to do in their lives and we careen along watching them, wishing we could offer them a cuppa, a shoulder to cry upon, and sometimes a good shaking.
In the mantime, Lynley and Havers muddle through it all and like arrows pierce through to the heart of the mess and find the answers to solve the case, somethimes discovering that the truth isn't the best answer to resolve the complex problem.
Ah what a muck up we humans can make of our lives.
I thought I might read the entire series of Inspector Lynley, but I think I'll stop here. Although the "who done it" aspect of the story is interesting, the writing around the personalities seemed preachy and unconvincing. I'm finding Elizabeth George's writing a little "twee", so time to move on. Did enjoy, however, the Lynley/Harvers relationship. Find reference to "Lady Helen" irritating!
I am reading these out of order. Yes, there is some backstory to Inspector Lynley and Sergeant Havers, but each case can be read on its own. I do enjoy reading this series. I would like to go back and read #2-#4 just to get the backstory. This one is set in Cambridge, and I like the way E. George describes the colleges and the towns.
Good read about a deaf student who was killed who had many, many secrets! Lynley is then brought in to solve the crime. This kept my attention and just another great EG book!
He is absolutely devastated by Elena’s death.The relationship between the Cambridge police and the university has been marred by a past investigation so given the nature of the murder and the important people involved, the case has been turned over to Scotland Yard.
Lynley is trying to give Helen time, still hoping there is the possibility of life for them as a couple, but is having difficulty maintaining the façade of a simple casual companionship.
They follow a series of blind leads, including sexual harassment, pregnancy, unrequited love, jealousy and illicit affairs before coming on the key point which solves the crime.George has created two wonderful characters in this novel, both of them women.
The woman who found the body, an artist, was so upset at the discovery that she ran to the nearest police station, an odd thing to do but given the circumstances, possible.Though the deceased, Elena’s early life was characterized with a bitter divorce, she’s grown now, attending university and seeming to have a life, though the anger she carries is colossal.
Elena’s father, Anthony Weaver, is a Cambridge faculty member and in line for a prestigious chair in history.
Weaver’s daughter Elena epitomizes the beauty of youth, and she is profoundly deaf.
Another in this series which I enjoyed when I read it and -in my opinion - is much better than the previous book.
The more plausible suspect was the man’s second wife, the step-mother to the girl whom she didn’t particularly like, and who blocked her husband from giving her a child of her own, because it might make Elena feel unwanted or usurped if a baby came into the picture.
It is the scenes when Lynley finds new insight into why Helen might be pushing him away…seeing Helen’s sister Pen, feeling trapped by the expectations of her husband, and then the conversation with Elena’s older secret lover about what he wanted from the girl half his age that his middle-aged wife couldn’t provide.
I've read the first four novels in the series and so I know Elizabeth George can be a bit graphic, but there was just to much in this novel for my tastes.The other reason this is not a favorite Elizabeth George is because I did not care for the characters.
I thought the motive for the murder was extremely flimsy and pushed the limits of a good mystery.Lynley and Havers have fallen into a good partnership in this book.
What I enjoy most about this series is what goes on in the lives of the main characters outside of the investigations.
Hard to imagine Poirot agonizing over his love life the way Lynley does, or Marple discussing the pros and cons of England's class structure the way Havers does.
The plot device of seemingly incompatible personalities at work on a mutual problem is a recurring theme through these books and with each central plot and its own specific cast of characters, George manages to highlight her detectives' similarities and differences.
There always seems to be a way, as an example, that Lynley and Havers are forced to deal with some component of England's class structure.
Entering the world of Cambridge University they sift through clues to Elena's elusive character to find her killer.This mystery in my opinion was utterly absorbing one of Ms George best.
The author does a wonderful job capturing the inner world of college life and the role of well-meaning and loving individuals trying to meet the expectations of those they love.On a secondary note, things are still left unresolved, one, is the confusion about Inspector Lynley's relationship with Lady Helen, he is ardently pursuing her, and second, Havers is still dealing with a dilemma on how to help her elderly mother.
In this fifth story, Lynley and Havers are called to Cambridge to aid the local police in the investigation of the murder of Elena Weaver, a university student.
Two others are also possible suspects, a local artist, and the leader of the university's Deaf Student organization.
Aside from the murder investigation, both Havers and Lynley are in the middle of deep personal conflict.
Lynley is struggling to deal with Helen's apparent rejection of his proposal.
As a result of the murder investigation, Lynley begins to understand more clearly Helen's reasons for suppressing the bond they share.
