https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107456.Spring_Moon
I've recently read three novels set in China from a list of recommended historical fiction: Min's Empress Orchid, See's Snowflower and the Secret Fan, and Bao's Spring Moon.
The epilogue, which dealt with the Cultural Revolution, was heart-breaking.Not quite a book I'd consider a standout, that I'd keep on my shelf or highly recommend to friends or gift them with, but I certainly liked the heroine Spring Moon and found myself engrossed by her story and the picture of Chinese history and culture.
Spring Moon is a novel about the history of China and Chinese cultural revolution from an empire to 
Spring Moon was a powerful book. It has been almost a decade since I read it and some passages I have never forgotten. The book follows the life of a young girl who is born into a wealthy family in Imperialist China and has her feet bound and ends with her life under the communists when she is an old lady. There is drama and heartache and rare moments of happiness. There are difficult decisions that must be lived with. I learned quite a bit about China reading this book and have never forgotten this novel.
This book was required reading in my 10th grade combined studies (English/History) class (though it could have been 11th or 12th grade--don't remember for sure). What's really wild about this book is that, 20 years after I read it, when someone asked me about historical fiction, it's one of the first titles that popped into my head. For someone interested in finding out more about growing up in another culture in another time, or in Chinese history or women's history--this book has it all.
It seems that Bette Lord tried too hard to fit this family's life into the history of China and although all the incidents are interesting, they don't seem to develop as deeply as I had expected them to.
She wanted each of her characters to play an important role in the shaping of China's history but it didn't all ring true - it seemed somewhat contrived and idealised.
The author beautifully celebrates the traditional Chinese past, particularly the importance of family ties and the grace of the rituals that tied one generation to the next.
Rating Clarification 4-1/2 stars.I remember this being a sweeping read, which left me with that feeling of having been on a grand journey.
Starting in the late 19th century, the reader follows a pampered daughter of Imperial China, Spring Moon, through the sweeping changes of China in the 20th century, and those of her personal life, covering almost 100 years and multiple generations.
I've never read an introduction that complemented the book, intrigued the reader and was profound.
I wish more historical fiction, especially those centered in different cultures took these measures for the reader.Comparisons saying this is the Chinese Gone with the Wind, which I admit caught my attention, in my opinion are stretching things.
When Spring Moon was little, it was foretold that she would live to see five generations, and her life unfolds in this story.
Spring Moon was so sheltered at first, pampered and cared for, and then she goes through all these changes in her life.
It's not the best, but it's still a fun read about a person who lives through many of China's dramatic changes and sees how it changes herself and the people around her.
Highly recommended for a fun read set in old China.
The reader does indeed learn about her life but also follows the life of her uncles, daughter Lustrous Jade and son/brother Enduring Promise.
I also would get confused by Spring Moon's son who is the result of an affair with her uncles.
Enduring Promise is Spring Moon's "secret son" because no one in the family knows she actually gave birth to him, but since he was adopted by her mother-in-law on her death bed he is known as her brother - yes, a little confusing!Overall, this book gave me insight into what life was like in the early 20th century in China.
When I told my wife I was giving up on Snow Flower and the Secret Fan, she looked at the cover and asked me why I even started reading it.
Looking back, I think I was vaguely remembering another novel I'd read as a teenager, and thanks to Amazon, two days later I had that very same novel in my hands.
Through it all, there's never a dull moment, and I found the mother/daughter relationship between Spring Moon and her child much more real and fleshed out than the malfunctioning robots from Snow Flower.
I enjoyed the first part of this book very much. From the title, I assumed the main character would be Spring Moon and that the story would be told from her point of view. I read somewhere that it's been compared to  Gone With The Wind  but I have to disagree--except to say that it concerns a family torn apart by civil war. Other characters were introduced into the story and subsequent chapters would go between Spring Moon's point of view and some of the others. I found it distracting, particula
From the title, I assumed the main character would be Spring Moon and that the story would be told from her point of view.
Other characters were introduced into the story and subsequent chapters would go between Spring Moon's point of view and some of the others.
I found it distracting, particularly after Spring Moon returned home after the death of her husband.
The illicit romance between Spring Moon and her uncle didn't really ring true to me and I thought it detracted from the story.
Otherwise, I enjoy historical fiction and particularly learning about events in history occuring in other countries--in this case, China.
Someone else on Good Reads who read this book said that it is a borderline romance novel, but she still throughly enjoyed it. I have to agree. It does have substance, however, as a work of historical fiction. In the late 1800s many people in China were struggling with the introduction of foreign ideas into China. It is the beginning of a divide that will have much greater implications. Through this novel we see this unfold in the lives of three generations of a wealthy family. I think it is loosely based on the history of the author's family.
I really enjoyed reading about the ups and downs of the Chang family dynasty as the years went through WWI, the Communist takeover and then the visit of Henry Kissinger and his entourage including one of the Chang family members. Spring Moon is the central character and she has a very interesting life. I have had this book since 1981 and finally got around to reading it. I'm sorry I waited so long!
Stopped at page 131. Couldn't read any more. I thought it boring and badly written. So much chinese stories and even the main character is annoying ! Give me Pearl Buck and "Pavilion of women" any day !Je n'ai pas dépassé la page 131, je m'ennuyais trop. J'ai lu de très bonnes histoires situées en Chine, l'auteur est très loin d'y arriver. Le fait que le personnage principal soit antipathique... Je préfère de loin Pearl Buck et "Pavillon de femmes".
I read this a long, long time ago and still remember it as a wonderful true story. Bette Bao Lord is China-born and ended up marrying an American diplomat and moving back to China (I hope I've got it right...) and this is her very well told story.Again, I highly recommend it to anyone who has an interest in China.
I loved this book which spans different generations of a family in China before, during and after the Maoist revolution. Very interesting background on the culture, especially as it pertained to women.
I learned a lot about China. Betty Bao Lord has an incredible way with words. The way she writes women is fantastic. Her women, while they are not what we generally believe to be strong, have enormous strength and inner spirit. I was in love with this story after the first page.
Something I was reading tonight reminded me of this book. I read it at least 20 or more years ago and remembered loving it. Much later, I read Amy Tan's " The Kitchen God's Wife" and "The Joy Luck Club". I loved all of these books; they are really excellent.
I think I was still a teenager when I read this . . . don't remember a ton about it except that I really enjoyed it / it was a total pageturner.
I have the 1983 edition by Sphere books. brought home to re-read sometime.
I know many people will say this is one of the best books they ever read, but I was not as impressed with this historical epic novel of the changes in China.
Spring Moon is brought up in Soochow China by a wealthy family, steeped in past family traditions, including the young girl having to have her feet bound.
Fate is a strong thread throughout the book, however, Spring Moon gets an education from her uncle, which passes on to her future generations.
Spring Moon is not political, her descendants and family that gets more educated become the political backbone of China.
Good read about the changes that took place as the empire declined at the end of the 19th century.
's An intensely personal story of the Chang clan, as told through the main character, Spring Moon.
Her life and those of her close relatives encompass all the tumult that the Chinese people experienced during those years.
After all the years of detail early on, it is a little disconcerting.
Ms. Lord's ability to paint a picture of the home place of the Chang's, the description of natives, and the locales make it worth the read.
Beautifully written story of five generations spanning 80 years in the history of China in a time of turmoil and transition, casting off the old ways and heading into revolution and Communism. This was so interesting and enlightening. If you have never known much about the old China before Communism, this is a wonderful way to learn.
I really related to the emotions of the characters in this book and learned so much more about China. The story is based on people the author knew, and results in the genuine feel of the book. It is about hypocracy and sacrifice as well as what love is able and not able to overcome.
nothing too special, long winding narrative. well written.
Story was good but took me forever to read. Very detailed and long
Note to millennials out there touting Bernie Sanders policies, shutting down free speech by those you oppose, and reveling in the propaganda released daily by the free press.
What all this does is greatly increase the power of government, an in the case of communism, which policies supported by Sanders and the like would bring in, establishes a very tiny, powerful, and extremely wealthy elite, while everyone else is powerless and poor.
Spring Moon's daughter in the book, Lustrous Jade, who devoted her life to 'social justice' and the initiation of socialism in China is the equivalent of today's youth who are so enthusiastic to bring socialism to the USA.
Per chi vuole conoscere la storia recente della Cina (ultimo secolo) da un altro punto di vista - ma non si racconta solo di quello ...Pero’ i gigli d’oro per le donne e il codino per gli uomini avrebbero preso, in ogni caso, il sentiero che conduce oltre le sorgenti gialle...La traduzione / spiegazione di alcuni termini sarebbe stata utile (senza dover ricorrere obbligatoriamente a wiki-monopolio-pedia).Alcuni brani:Il respiro di Pan Ko divenne i venti e le nuvole, la sua voce il rombo del tuono, il suo occhio sinistro il sole, il suo occhio destro la luna, i capelli e la barba le stelle, e il sudore della sua fronte, la pioggia e la rugiada.
Heart breaking. Ambitious. Satisfying. A peek into a long span of China's history. The love story was a little distracting.
I was in my 20s when I read Spring Moon, and my youth and the way struggle I had over how women judged themselves during that period may have made me feel more vulnerable, but still, only Asian books impacted me this way, and still do, though in lesser measure.I think the fact that pride matters more than anything else in Asian culture is a major part of my problem.
If books about Asian women do not get deeply under your skin, and you like epic novels with intelligent and likeable main characters, give Spring Moon a try.
However, I feel like anyone teen and above could pick up this book and comfortably settle into what was going on- it's not one of those that you need to know what was happening at the time before you can start reading."Spring Moon" tells the story of Spring Moon, from her childhood to her old age, as she witnesses the radical changes that China went through from the late 19th century to the mid 20th century.
I would recommend this book to anyone who is studying or would like to learn more about Chinese history; although this kind of skips through the Cultural Revolution, it gives a pretty good picture of things in the 1890s up to the end of the Empire in 1911.
