https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/456386.King_Jesus
He presents Jesus not as the offspring of a divine being, born of a virgin birth, but as the very mortal son of Mary and Antipater, the eldest son of King Herod the Great.
Antipater’s death left Jesus as the rightful heir to the terrestrial kingdom of Judaea, based on his descent from Herod.
King Herod the Great/Wicked - Grandfather of Jesus?
Pontius Pilate is a sly political schemer, and he can’t quite get off the hook by placing the blame for Jesus’s death on Jewish elders.
Pontius Pilate conveniently washing his hands of the Jesus problem.
Συνοπτικά, ο Ιησούς παρουσιάζεται ως Βασιλικός γόνος κ εγγονός του μοχθηρού Ηρώδη και νόμιμος διάδοχος του Θρόνου, ωστόσο ο ίδιος ουδόλως ενδιαφέρεται γ τα πρωτοτόκια, αντιθέτως ενσαρκώνει την έλευση του Μεσσία εκπληρώνοντας την προφητεία του Ησαΐα κατά την οποία θα πρέπει να σταυρωθεί ως Καταραμένος και ‘Ανάξιος Ποιμένας’ γ να μνημονεύεται έπειτα το όνομα αυτού κ του Θεού από τους άπιστους κ παραστρατημένους ανθρώπους ..Όντας Βρετανός κ έχοντας ως αντίπαλο ή σύμμαχο περισσότερο τον τελικό αναγνώστη κ λιγότερο –όπως οι έτεροι μυθιστοριογράφοι- το Εθνικό Εκκλησιαστικό δόγμα κ τους έμμισθους ζηλωτές του, μάλλον είχε και τις λιγότερες αντιδράσεις μετά την έκδοση του βιβλίου του ..Άριστος γνωστής των Εβραϊκών, Αιγυπτιακών, Ελληνικών μύθων, λαϊκών παραδόσεων, παγανιστικών εθίμων κ της Ιστορίας κάθε Αρχαίου τόπου, επιτυγχάνει μια εξαιρετική Αναπαράσταση της εποχής όπου όσα συμβαίνουν είναι αποτέλεσμα όχι μόνο της ιδιαίτατης Ιστορικής στιγμής και των σχέσεων εξουσίας που αναπτύσσονται μεταξύ των κυρίως λαών –Ρωμαίων κ Ιουδαίων εν προκειμένω- αλλά και απόρροια των Θρησκευτικών Μυθων πολλών λαών, των ζυμώσεων τους στο πέρας του Χρόνου, των προσμίξεων τους με λοιπές Λαϊκές κ Θρησκευτικές παραδόσεις κ.ο.κ.
rather parables and planets (Ninib, Marduk, Nergal) and Essenes (אִסִּיִים), oh my, floated and danced in my head as I fell into a deep Christmas slumber.Robert Graves brilliantly dances in that zone between myth and reality, between poetry and prose, between belief and unbelief with 'King Jesus'.
I can certainly understand how both believers and nonbelievers might feel a bit robbed by Graves FICTIONAL (let's not forget that Robert Graves was writing historical, speculative, FICTION here) account of the birth, life and death of Jesus Christ.
But for me at least, Graves treatment of King Jesus was amazing (I'll let this review float between four and five stars, so that last star almost twinkles).
1 Christopherus, unto the church of Goodreads: peace be with you.2 I write this epistle to you on the occasion of my completion of Robert Graves' scroll King Jesus, being an historical but also novelistic account of the life of Jesus of Nazareth.3 Not having read his masterpiece, I, Claudius, or any of his other works, I was a virgin to his style of combining history with imagination; but having read this, I remain unimpressed.4 The problem with King Jesus lies in the way it straddles the supernatural and the ordinary.
Miriamne was, of course, Herod's, an Idumaean prince, link to legitimacy as she was the last of the Hasmonaeans (aka Maccabees) and, so, Jesus was descended by blood from the last royal line of the Jews.Now some ancient sources do, in fact, talk about proper young girls serving the Goddess (Ishtar, Astarte, etc.) in the region in this way.
But, although the gospels do make reference to the hieros gamos (sacred marriage) as in the baptism story in Mark, there is, to my knowledge, no evidence that proper young Jewish girls served as temple prostitutes.
You may not accept his interpretations of Greek myth (The Greek Myths) or of the pre-Indo-European goddess cults (The White Goddess: A Historical Grammar of Poetic Myth) but you have to grant him a mastery of the sources common and obscure that few can equal.In King Jesus Graves exploits every contradiction in the canonical Gospels, the Apocrypha, Jewish tradition and Gnostic writings and combines it with pre-Hellenic religious traditions to write the "real story" of Jesus' ministry.
Jesus' birth, growing-up, and ministry are told through the eyes of a 1st century historian Agipus the Decapolitan (who may or may not be imagined.)Not surprisingly, this is, after all Graves the author of The White Goddess, Agipus says that the Jews have never been able to keep their women in perfect subjection, and have therefore never been able to worship Jehovah with the purity they profess.
So, Graves never actually says that Mary wasn't a virgin mother, but he has Agipus almost innocently show that she wasn't.
He has Agipus explicitly say that Christians who assume that Jesus' preaching was against the Jews simply are ignorant of Jewish teachings.
I first read this as an early edition hard-back in the mid 80's. It is Graves at his best and, at times, most weird. He gives an original and fairly plausible alternative to the generally accepted religious view of Jesus. I doubt the 'true believer' will like it or get past the opening chapter: a recommendation in itself. Although not as instantly readable as 'I Clavdivs' and requiring far more effort from the reader, King Jesus is still a book that deserves a far wider readership than it has received since it was first published.
I noticed several borrowings from the Christian deuterocanonical books, some of which Graves acknowledges in his very brief historical note at the end.
Graves seems to want to say that everything in the Torah is based on previous pagan religions (his obsession with the Triple Goddess gets quite tiring), but also does not want to detract from our admiring Jesus' for his fierce devotion to Jewish monotheism!
It includes the names of all seven, which should provide interesting research material for demonology enthusiast.The ending is great in that it raises more questions than it answers.
(hide spoiler)] Graves leaves the answers to these two questions to our own speculative imaginations.
Very sympathetic to the traditional villains in the Passion tale, because of Graves' apparent understanding of Jewish customs and traditions, laws and celebrations.
This novel is overtly hostile to Christian theology, just as Graves' other historical novels (I, Claudius, Count Belisarius, to name the two I've read) seem written primarily for the purpose of correcting annoying misconceptions and falsehoods propagated by the conventional surviving records of those times.
Nothing could be more different from Mel Gibson's version of The Passion than this sometimes profound and often poetic account of the life and times of King Jesus.
Is there anything Robert Graves CAN'T do?
This book stirred up controversy when it was published and it was a fascinating read.
Review on my bloghttp://dionoia.wordpress.com/2012/04/...
Il padre lo fa sopprimere, mentre Maria è incinta di un bambino, Gesù, appunto, che riunsce in sé la legittimità dinastica ai troni dell’Antico Israele, che fu governato da Davide, e della nuova Giudea entrata nell’orbita politica romana.Qui Graves fa un primo clin d’oeil al lettore più avvertito: anche nella realtà storica, Erode, fece uccidere uno dei suoi figli, Aristobulo, primogenito avuto dalla seconda moglie asmonea Mariamne, facendolo annegare poco più che ventenne.
This NOVEL is about the idea that Jesus was the son of Antipater, the oldest son of Herod. Interesting story line. The book is full of content! If a reader knows the Bible and mythology, the book will be an easy read. I found myself rereading parts for clarity.
All my Chrestian friends should read this book.
Интересна интерпретация, инак книгата е средна работа
The child of this union is Jesus, and the rest of the book describes how he deliberately sets out to fulfill the prophecies of the Old Testament.Graves has skillfully interwoven Biblical texts with practices and rumours of older gods to show that Jesus was indeed the fulfillment of many traditions.
Jesus has come to end the world in this book, by destroying the power of the female, and ending the cycle of birth and death, and Judas is indeed a traitor, but not in the ways that traditional Biblical readings would have us think.
The villains in Robert Graves novels are so thoroughly evil.
I didn't exactly have a positive impression of King Herod previously, but good god, he's worse than Ming the Merciless.3.
The best stuff is Jesus's life as a child and young man - Graves loves the confrontations with the arrogant elders who feel threatened by an upstart.
Mary Magdalene is, umm, Mary the Hairdresser, and she is a witch rather than a whore, and in communication with the evil one, who I think is female, although I didn't follow that too closely as I wasn't that interested.
It attempts to create a much more believable story than that told in the four accepted Gospels, starting with the problem of Pontius Pilate saying that he could find no sin in Jesus when he said he was "King of the Jews" (only the Romans could appoint kings of their subject peoples in order to keep order).
Mr. Graves has strung together a great many legends into a quite logical tale that depicts Jesus not as divine but still wise and compassionate.
Robert Graves's King Jesus is not a good book, I don't think.
Now, I've read two other of his books a long time ago, I, Claudius and Claudius the God. Those books were terrific.
There's none of that fun in this book.In King Jesus, Graves tells a version of the story where Jesus is the literal son of David, and he is supposed to inherit a literal kingship.
Along the way, there's a lot of mystical mumbo-jumbo, long rants on paganism, blah blah.
No fun.
Could be this book is for smarter people than me.
Either way, not going to revisit this.

Really fascinating novel that asks the question: 'what if Jesus, rather than being a mystical and magical figure, was actually the secret grandson of Herod and a descendant of King David's, thus the rightful heir to the Jewish throne?' This book sucks you in as much as Graves' other novels 'I, Claudius' and 'Claudius the God', though perhaps a little more dense and trying at times. The ideas are really quite clever and thought provoking. I'd take Graves' logical and entertaining conclusions over the gospel anyday.
An outstanding book that is very provocative for those who study religions. As someone who at one point in my life taught Christian doctrine, I found this book to be implying the obvious. Those who see beyond the veneer of modern fantasy believed by the masses to be "the believers" truth. It provides enough source material for one to pillage through and possibly discover other obscurities not readily known. Graves certainly gives you plenty to think about, and this is something I appreciate.
Found this on the shelves of a used book store in LA and bought it because I remember really likely "I Claudius" by the same author. Unfortunately, while the concept is good -- writing about Jesus from the point of view of a contemporary Roman historian -- this doesn't come close to matching the magic of "I Claudius."
La recreación de la vida de jesús de nazareth por parte de robert graves no alcanza el nivel de su famosa yo claudio pero no deja de ser interesante leer las hipótesis que plantea sobre lo que pudo ser la vida de el personaje histórico más influyente de los últimos dos milenios se sea creyente o no.
King Jesus is a completely different perspective on the story of the new testament, informed by Graves wide study of pre-christian stories and myths, and his reading of such texts as remain. What emerges is Jesus as sacrificial king, in the tradition of James Fraser and the Golden Bough. Well worth reading, in my opinion, although committed fundamentalist christians had better avoid it.
I can see why some would say this book was controversial. Christians might disapprove of the removal of Jesus's divinity or they might be appalled at the treatment of his miracles. I was let down for another reason: as a novel, the plot was encumbered by the historical pretentiousness which made the reading boring and unrewarding.
Atrevido pero bastantante interesante. ¿La premisa? Jesús no era ningún Hijo de Dios, sino el heredero legítimo de la Casa de David y la Dinastía Herodiana. Él es presentado como un profeta carismático y notable, pero nada fuera de lo sobrenatural.
Left me breathless (Graves nearly always does)His very human Jesus, and his fight to overcome the power of the Goddess, too strong even in the patriarchal Israel, combines myth and history in an amazing way. Up there with I, Claudius and Claudius the God.
