https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/530965.The_Day_of_the_Triffids
Some books can be quite ill-served by their title. 'Not enough triffids!' would complain those lured to this book by the promise of a fun sci-fi romp centered around carnivorous sentient plants - just to find something entirely different.But you gotta agree - a more appropriate title for this unexpected gem of a book such as  "How complete disintegration of society and civilization as we know it, the sudden helplessness and the painful realization how little it takes to throw us off our tenuous
"How complete disintegration of society and civilization as we know it, the sudden helplessness and the painful realization how little it takes to throw us off our tenuous perch on the top of the food chain leads to uncomfortable ethical questions about societal structures and conventions and the implications of successful survival in a forever changed world where our morals and ideas and what we think constitutes humanity may become quite obsolete"
Add to it a plague-like outbreak that followed, and finally the titular triffids (semi-sentient mobile carnivorous plants carelessly bioengineered by humans back when our supremacy was a given) - and the survivors of the disaster have their hands full when they try to survive and rebuild some kind of organized new world.
However, I struggled with Wyndhams vision of the societal response of (view spoiler)[ mass chaos, destruction and despair based entirely on blindness.
(hide spoiler)]At any rate, almost all apocalypse novels require a suspension of disbelief, so I jumped back into the story and was pleasantly surprised by the triffids' backstory.
(hide spoiler)]The intellectual explorations were most interesting when Wyndham broke down the issue of how a handful of sighted people could take care of the blind.
Feed me, Seymour / Feed me all night long / Ha ha ha ha ha!
/ Cause if you feed me, Seymour / I can grow up big and strong.John Wyndham published his novel The Day of the Triffids in 1951 and it’s influence on speculative fiction since has been Triffidulous.
(Including Little Shop of Horrors)Being perhaps an allegory for Cold War paranoia and also maybe a cautionary tale about the deleterious effects of mucking about with nature and the biological results of such shenanigans.Wyndham does an above average job with characterization in a post-apocalyptic setting as the world has been dealt a knockout one-two punch from a Triffid infestation and a blinding meteor shower.
For a person who claims not to like science fiction, I read and enjoy quite a lot of it!
What I particularly liked about this sci-fi take on apocalypse and the survival of a few people was the insight that knowledge, however complex and vast, can be lost if humanity is not organised enough to provide a place for teaching and learning.
In a situation where the vast majority of humanity turns abruptly blind, the natural world constitutes enough of an obstacle to overcome without walking and talking plants to add to the predicament.
But as a thought experiment, I found them rather amusing!Recommended for people who don't like science fiction but enjoy reading it anyway.
This was so great! I have a lot of thoughts so I'll try to write up a review later.
If homicidal flora was a popular sci-fi/horror subgenre, the triffids would be the most badass, with Robert Plant coming in a close second.At the beginning of the book, triffids are already commonplace, a rich source of top quality oil and farmed throughout the world.
The plot focuses on Bill’s struggle to survive in this post-apocalypse landscape, his meeting with numerous people, communities and groups of survivors.I first read this book decades ago and before this reread I thought that the meteor shower and the advent of the triffids seem too much like a coincidence.
Everything seemed fine with the domesticated Triffids until the Earth passed through the tail of a comet, blinding much of the world's population.
It was then the Triffids struck!I love the proto-sf of the first half of the 20th century, when the lines between sf and horror were more blurred than they are now.
Day of the Triffids is one of those books that many things that came later owe a debt to.
The roots of the survival horror genre can be found within its pages, in my opinion.
Many zombie flicks owe a debt of gratitude to this book.
Heck, 28 Days Later lifted the beginning directly.
Wyndham's world, where a tiny minority can see and the rest are blind, is a blunt metaphor for Rand's philosophy (popularized eight years previous by her first hit, The Fountainhead).
Because John Wyndham is a jackass.Here's what Bill does right after Josella proposes finding him a harem of blind breeder women: "I ruminated a little on the ways of purposeful, subversive-minded women like Florence Nightingale and [19th-century prison reformer] Elizabeth Fry. They so often turn out to have been right after all."If you want to pause for a moment and ruminate a little on the fact that Wyndham just compared Florence Nightingale to a pimp, I understand.
"We hold the chance of as full a life as ['those blind girls'] can have," says Josella of the harem idea.
They form no serious threat (view spoiler)[ unless that is you have no gumption, know-how, neither a home made flame thrower nor a shooting razor Triffid Trimmer (view spoiler)[buy yours now before disaster strikes (hide spoiler)] (hide spoiler)].While The War of the Worlds is about military preparedness, Triffids is more about moral preparedness - what kind of new society will you create given the opportunity.
The next stop in my end-of-the-world reading marathon was The Day of the Triffids, the 1951 man-versus-plants tale by John Wyndham.
While on the job, a triffid splashes poison inside Bill's protective goggles, sending him to the hospital.Wandering the groping city, Bill comes across the blind as they stagger the sidewalks for food.
Being attacked by a triffid actually seems preferable to surviving one, especially if you were blinded.The more time I allowed myself to think about Wyndham's slow motion apocalypse, the more spooky it became.
This review can now be found at Expendable Mudge Muses Aloud!
I've read it countless times since, and is one of the books I think about most.
What gripped me, and grips me still, is the central premise -- that one day, the vast majority of humanity goes blind (Jose Saramago, the Nobel prize winner, has the same premise in "Blindness," but for my money Wyndham makes a better job of it).
In the middle of the book, there is a talky chapter in which various sighted people debate the options.
The main character is a guy called Bill Masen, who was in a hospital outside London with his eyes bandaged on the day of the comet.
For some reason, I had the impression that Day of the Triffids was about the sudden attack of man-killing mobile plants. So I was surprised when it was revealed that the triffids had been around for a long time and a worldwide case of blindness was the cause of the catastrophe - the triffids merely took advantage of it.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
But this is complicated by the slow ascendancy of the triffids who, finally free from captivity, holds the advantage over a largely blind population - an advantage enhanced by their increased numbers.----------This story was written at the height of the Cold War: when the Westerner lived in fear of "The Other", the communist, who was ready to overturn his comfortable world at the drop of a hat and turn it into a socialist hell.
However, I feel that the book was not written with an aim to terrify - rather, Wyndham wanted to explore how society would evolve after such a double whammy.The author has done a great job with the creation of the triffid.

4.5/5. // Have you ever been afraid of plants? No? Well, you will be after you've read this book.
The triffids and the cosmic rays are not the main focus of the novel, they are just the useful devices that set up the subsequent scenes for the study of the social and moral implications of survival in an extremely hostile environment, one where Man is no longer at the top of the food chain: You know, one of the most shocking things about it is to realize how easily we have lost a world that seemed so safe and certain.
4.0 stars. I am very glad that I finally got around to reading this classic post-apocalyptic novel. I really liked Wyndham's writing style and the way he presented the story. It was well written, well plotted and kept me interested throughout the book. As with most really good post-apocalyptic science fiction novels, the true point of the story is the exploration of human nature by showing how different people act when the society they have grown up in falls apart. Recommended!!!
I’m pretty sure some of the weeds in my garden must be related to the triffid! A scary look at a potential post apocalypse situation- the majority of the population are blinded by comets, while ambulant flesh eating triffids do their stuff. As always, the worst post apocalyptic dangers seem to be largely comprised of disparate groups of survivors vying for control. When will we learn?...
Really enjoyed this post-apocalyptic tale which I wasn't expecting to like so much. It didn't really sound as dated as some other books of the time and was quite humorous in places. What a great opening line too!
There's something about the End Of The World that just grabs me and won't let go.
The end of the world came in two parts, one of which was definitely of our own doing.It started with a comet.
Green streaks of light brightened the night skies around the world, and everyone who could go and watch them did so.
From the girl who believes that the Americans will save her to the man who believes that polygamy is the way to a brighter future, everyone has an idea on how to survive.But first they have to deal with the Triffids....
Blind women have value because they can produce sighted children.
Some see blind men are just a drag on the system and do not contribute anything useful.
Others use the blind as labor gangs with a sighted person leading.
To complicate matters, the triffids are loose and their population is expanding along with a fast incubating typhoid-like disease.
The blind make easy targets for the triffids who feed off the decomposing bodies.
The story is one of survival (yes, there is a romance in it) and a battle of dominance between thinking humans and the seemingly mindless plants.
I was 1 year old when this book was published so, understandably, didn't read it for a number of years after that, Think it was around 1958 when I first read it, even then it was groundbreaking, radio programmes, films wow what a concept.
Science fiction was really still in its infancy in those days and authors like Jon Wyndham were laying the ground for the massive genre it became.
Anyway, this was one of the first 10 or so Sci-Fi books that I read, so it has a special place in my memories.
Thank you Jon Wyndham for being a pioneer.
A book everyone should read. I love it when a story takes a jab at humanity and how balls up it generally is or can get. A rather amusing, cleanly told story. Amongst the many, many, many (oh so many) crappy post apocalyptic books out there, this still has to be one of the best and most original. It has walking killer plants for goodness sakes!! Read it, and you'll never look at your garden in the same way again...Very cleanly written, short and interesting.
The disaster allows some unusual mobile carnivorous plants, widely nurtured because of valuable oils, to spread widely and threaten human extinction, the triffids.
My memory of the book from my youth, distorted by the movie, mistakenly had a focus on the war between human and alien plants.
Instead, the tale concentrates on the moral issues behind various pathways for human survival in the face of apocalypse, with the triffids just an added challenge to the mix.
Compared to today's thrillers that emphasize individual heroic action, this classic novel appears understated, providing a more thoughtful consideration of what aspects of human nature are likely to help sustain the species in the face of extreme disaster.
My partner told me about this classic post-apocalyptic novel; I'd not heard of it before. I enjoyed Wyndham's writing style and the way the story unfolded. It's a short read and will possibly make you scared of plants... but the main focus of the book aren't the Triffids but how humans survive in the middle of a disintegrating society. Of course the book shows its age and the attitude towards disability and women is not a very modern one. Still, I thoroughly enjoyed this read.
Lectura conjunta para el Hell-o-win con el grupo La cafetería de Audrey "Los que poseen algún tesoro siempre llevan una existencia precaria" "El día de los trifidos" se presenta como una obra como pocas, tras una serie meteoritos que dejan ciega a toda la población del mundo que disfrutó observándolos, aquellos que mantienen su capacidad visual deben buscar sobrevivir, lo cuál incluye aprender a realizar actividades básicas como cocinar u obtener agua, evitar ser sometidos por aquellas personas
"El día de los trifidos" se presenta como una obra como pocas, tras una serie meteoritos que dejan ciega a toda la población del mundo que disfrutó observándolos, aquellos que mantienen su capacidad visual deben buscar sobrevivir, lo cuál incluye aprender a realizar actividades básicas como cocinar u obtener agua, evitar ser sometidos por aquellas personas ciegas que buscan convertirlos en sus lazarillos y a los trifidos, estos últimos plantas carnívoras genéticamente modificadas que poseen la capacidad de caminar y parecen estar aprovechando rápidamente esté colapso en la sociedad como antes se conocía.La Guerra Fría, el miedo al descontrol de la ciencia y lo antinatural de las convenciones humanas son algunos de los tópicos que este magnífico libro toma.
He rescues Josella, a famous author who can also see, from a group of blind who were using her as their eyes.
They meet with another enclave of sighted survivors who are planning to escape to the countryside and join them.As the people realise the enormity of what has happened, different factions start to appear.
Bill and Josella are kidnapped and used as eyes for a group of blind people.
The people manage but stealing provisions and other supplies, but as these run out they start to realise the enormity of getting civilisation back up and running again whilst facing hostile attacks from the triffids.
The possibility in recent weeks of a thermonuclear exchange makes this novel all the more relevant today.
The world as understood is over.
A great meteor shower has left most of the world blind.
This is one advantage of the journal mode of the novel.
There are a few situations towards the end of the novel where plans for society are debated.
I can imagine a dozen or so world leaders I'd hope would read it and discuss such in tandem over Kölsch and tea.
One can hope.
A few days ago I realized I have two paperback copies of The Day of the Triffids sitting on my shelves, so I really must have wanted to read it.
Anyway, I finally got around to reading it, just the one copy though.What I found out was that I like it.
The novel doesn't have as straight alien invasion plot.
Another thing is that mankind has been dealing with the triffids, and the danger they pose for much longer than in the film.
This gives the whole triffid break out a different air then it has in the film.
