https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9409458-forever
This is probably the hardest review I’ve ever had to write.Shiver tears my heart in two every single time I read it.
Sam and Grace also seemed like shadows of their former selves, and I found myself becoming impatient with the way their narratives dawdled over insignificant details.The only scene that really moved me—yes, the only scene—comes very early in the book when Sam is racing to pick up Grace after she’s turned human again for the first time and the awful feelings he experiences (view spoiler)[when he arrives to find nothing but her clothes and a pair of shoes (hide spoiler)].
Maggie is such a fabulous writer, but her talent is wasted on writing boring chapters for shallow characters like Cole and Isabel to whom I don't feel connected at all.
I will start by saying, I just don't believe in Grace & Sam's "love".
With this being a fictional relationship I understand there is nothing real about it in the first place, yet I feel Maggie missed the mark if she was trying to depict genuine, consummate love.
Grace says it's their fault they know nothing about her life, and she should be able to see Sam..Then disappears and comes back home and demands all of these priviledges.
Just because I didn't like this book doesn't mean I'm telling everyone not to read it.
And if your opinion is to come on MY review and tell me how awesome this book is and that I got it wrong.
You have to hate it to bc I do!"Giving it two stars but I will probably drop it down to one the more I think about this book and it's horrible ending.
I want my money back...and the more I think about this bull crap about the reader having to decide what happens in the end the more pissed off I get.
Just SAM AND COLE, THE DARLING WOLFISH, MUSICAL ANGSTY WOLF POPSICLES THAT I LOVE ASTRONOMICALLY HARD.
I LOVE COLE.+ SAM: He so moody and agsty and folds paper cranes and writes love songs and loves Grace with every bone in his body.
Just Sam. He really is the best of anyone.+ GRACE: While I love her (I truly do) if I had to rate these foursome, she would come last.
I love Cole and Isabel and Sam and Grace.
I love bookshop and Karen when she's like Sam's mum for a second when the cops come for him.
I love Sam/Grace's mature devotion.
I love Isabel/Cole's immature devotion.
“People shouldn't have to earn kindness.
They should have to earn cruelty.”I think what kept me from reading  Forever  years ago, was my fear that something depressing would happen to Grace and Sam. But most of all I didn't want the series to end, because I loved it so much.
Some books just make you feel happy from inside out, they give you the feeling of being home between their pages.
That's what  The Wolves of Mercy Falls  is for me.
And this last part of the series was as good as the first and second one.Find more of my books on Instagram
But that's about all that I'm going to give praise for.The first big thing I had an issue with was that this book was so long and drawn out that the last 15% of the book was action, and then it was over and the book was finished.
If I'm the only one then so be it, but I thought that after all of the "changing" that Isabel did she at least deserved a happy ending like Grace and Sam. Same with Cole.
Aside from all of the unanswered questions and Sam annoying the hell out of me...the thing that pissed me off the most was the ending.
"It was a little after midnight, and I was trying to sleep mostly out of self-defense." My initial rating for this book was 4.5 stars. Then, while I was trying to write a review (I say trying because all my attempts have been pretty unsuccessful by my standards), I just went ahead and changed it to 5. It felt like the right thing to do. I suppose it would be easy enough to start pointing out flaws, complain about this and that, compare this book to Linger and especially Shiver, but I don’t want
The truth is, even if it didn’t have as many breathtaking moments as the two books before it, I was still very happy with how it was done.
Maggie Stiefvater has a way of making me see beauty in the simplest things.
People keep talking about Cole and how much he’s grown in Forever, but Grace did too, just in a less obvious way.
I will never be able to write anything worthy of Stiefvater’s beautiful prose, so I might as well stop trying.
It was one of my favorite worlds to read in over the past few years, since first picking up Shiver on a whim at Book Expo in 2009.
I've got so much respect for her and love following her travels or hearing where her next big talk will be.
Over the past 48 hours, I've had a hard time trying to explain the series to those who haven't heard of or read it.
It's funny to hear myself get choked up with enthusiasm while talking about what is -- essentially - a werewolf book.
Just because they were filler, and no time was taken to develop them, doesn't mean they don't count and simply get tossed by the wayside with Grace's parents.Third: the cure.
And, again, I'd like to toss in the word: cheating.Fourth: Sam. He spends the entire novel vacillating.
Okay, maybe that's a little unfair, but under the circumstances I felt the author cheated again.
And for anyone who has read the first two books and loved them, these scenes alone are worth reading the third.As always, Ms. Stiefvater's writing is melodic and maybe I'm just being grumpy about all the other stuff...
Disappointment carries with it some emotion, and the problem I had with Forever--much like I did with Maggie's latest, The Scorpio Races--was that I just didn't feel much of anything from it.Sam Roth has been my number one book crush for almost two years now, and after Linger crushed my heart into a million pieces on his behalf, I swore up and down I wouldn't read Forever until someone who loved him as much as I did gave me the all-clear.
Maybe my wariness to read translated into a distance from the characters, but even Sam Roth felt like a pale shadow of the boy I'd fallen in love with in Shiver.
It did take me a while because I wanted to take my time with it and not rush the entire book in a day (which I could have easily done...) This series has been on my tbr for a solid 5 years maybe(?) and I really regret not reading it sooner.
It just felt really rounded to me like we came full circle in a way and it was just great (I did cry a little though js :')) Maggie's writing is just incredible, this is the first series I've read from her and it's definitely won't be the last, I'm pretty sure I want to read everything she's ever written.
"There was something vaguelyglorious about having a purpose again."  I have mixed feelings about Forever. The plot is pretty awesome (the second half), and I love Cole and Isabel together, but I’m disappointed with the storyline of Sam and Grace.Maggie Stiefvater’s style is still as amazing in Forever as it was in Shiver and Linger. The story-building and the alternating viewpoints are delineated professionally.The first half of the novel basically gives a sitrep of the characters and is about
The plot is pretty awesome (the second half), and I love Cole and Isabel together, but I’m disappointed with the storyline of Sam and Grace.Maggie Stiefvater’s style is still as amazing in Forever as it was in Shiver and Linger.
Furthermore, it is not clear if (view spoiler)[his sacrifice is temporary or permanent (hide spoiler)], and I hate not knowing the long-term consequences of his deed.All in all5 stars to Cole and Isabel, 2 stars to Sam and Grace.Originally posted on my blog on September 3, 2012.My favorite quotes.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
I thought that the two following installments weren't loyal to the first book and they were a mayor disappointment for me.Today (August 17, 2018), I answered a friend's comment that got me thinking.
But the story has moved on in another direction, a direction we missed the first time because we took our own particular turn, a turn that made us read a completely different book that what it was intended to be.
You read the book(s), you learn about the characters, you love them (or hate them), and you let them go.
That's what made this process - my personal goodbye to Grace, Sam, Cole, and Isabel - so painful.
As much as I would love to have Sam for myself, he truly belongs with Grace, and I'm happy with the way the book ended.I could go on and on about the characters, especially the way Stiefvater threw in small details and thoughts that caused them to come alive.
Sam, Grace, Isabel, Cole, and Mercy Falls will remain in my heart.
It's a testament to how well the author can write that I am in love with this book as I have always read books about supernatural/paranormal romance, but I have always had a fastidious distaste of werewolves.
I got this book by accident, and when I found out it was about werewolves, I didn't want to read it.
I fell in love with the book and its fluid plot line along with the gorgeous descriptive writing from Sam's eyes to the woods that Grace haunts.
I really am hooked on this book, and it takes a very good author to make someone change genre.
Why begin a book I was so sure I wasn't going to enjoy, you ask?
The previous side characters, that continued to be given a larger role as the series progressed, were this book's saving grace.
Isabel and Cole each had so much sass and seeing their burgeoning romance and growing character developments felt truly special, opposed to the instantaneous attraction and endless endearments uttered by Sam and Grace.The actual plot was accessible, if pretty predictable, but not completely horrible and, as before, Stiefvater's writing continued to shine.
This story, as a whole, is just not for me, but I have not written myself off from trying more of Stiefvater's renowned book series.
If you thought that any of the first two books were slow or prone to melodrama (as I know that others have said), then in my opinion, you may find Forever challenging.
Sam - whom I absolutely adored in Shiver - just kind of moped around and really didn't do much of anything but feel sorry for himself.
For me, it's practically false advertising when you've got the final book in a series titled something permanent sounding like Forever, and the ending doesn't have a whole lot of closure.
I get that it's bad to give teen characters any kind of "permanent closure," because after all, they're only 18, right?
Το πρώτο βιβλίο της σειράς-που τιτλοφορείται ρίγος- ήταν μακράννννννν το καλύτερο.
Σαν να ήμασταν μόνιμα εκτεθειμένες στο παγερό κρύο και στην απεραντοσύνη της νύχτας.Κατενθουσιασμένη καταπιάστηκα με το δεύτερο βιβλίο-άπνοια- που ήταν υποδεέστερο.
Δεν είχε τη μαγεία του πρώτου αλλά φύσηξε ένας αέρας ανανέωσης χάρη στον Κόουλ.
Είναι η πρώτη φορά στα χρονικά που παραγκωνίζω το αρχικό πρωταγωνιστικό ζευγάρι προς χάρη του νέου, του ωραίου.
Ευτυχώς συνέχισε το μοτίβο με την εναλλαγή αφήγησης και ανέπτυξε τον χαρακτήρα του Κόουλ (που σε αυτόν οφείλουμε την πιο ρομαντική στιγμή του βιβλίου).
Όπως στο πρώτο βιβλίο ήθελα ν’ αφήσουν τα δάκρυα …λίγα κρυστάλλινα ίχνη στα μάγουλά μου.
Bir seri daha bitti.
Ebedi'yi okurken ilk başlarda o kadar sıkıldım ki bitse de başka bir şeyler okusam, dedim.
Sonrasında kitap daha okunası bir hale geldi ve okurken sıkılmamaya başladım ama beni fazla süründürdü o kısma kadar ya.
Son sayfaları hızlı geçti, neyse ki biraz heyecan yaratayım diye düşünmüş yazar fakat kitap genel anlamda "okudum, bitti, eh işte sevdim ya" ayarındaydı.
Okudum bitti bayıldım bee demeyi çok isterdim ama yok yani.
Daha çok Grace ve Sam aşkına odaklı ilerliyor hikaye.
Dört karakterin (Sam, Grace, Isabel ve Cole'un) bakış açısıyla anlatmayı tercih etmiş yine yazar.
Herhangi bir kitabı okurken sürünmemeyi tercih ederim.
This stunning conclusion moves faster than even Shiver and Linger did, sometimes I wanted to find out what happened next so badly, that I'm afraid I missed some of the amazing and unique details that I love so much in Ms. Stiefvater's novels.
This was totally true to Ms. Stiefvater---not everything is tied up with a pretty bow, the good guy doesn't always win, and the bad guy isn't always apprehended....but the reader is completely satisfied!I have purchased all three books as a gift for my niece, and I will pre-order another Scorpio Races, just for her.
I know this series is a hit or miss series, and for most it's a miss, but for me this was a hit.
I love the characters too much to hate this story.
I am absolutely happy with the conclusion to this story.
There are a few unanswered questions at the end but knowing Sinner exists I'm not upset about them.
It makes me nostalgic for twilight since its basically the wolves story in twilight of vampires didn't exist and Bella met only Jacob and it just makes me happy.
i can't with this series anymore
:Spoilers:This series has been one long roller-coaster of pure emotional agony from the very first book till it hits the very last page in the third and final installment in, Forever.
I'm sad to see this gorgeous series go and while I had my moments, both the good and the bad, these books will always be treasured in my heart.I swear, there is nothing like reading a Maggie Stiefvater book.
Maggie's writing is pure art, pure poetry and I'll never get tired of it.I love these characters, but I think Cole should take a bow in this book.
Actual rating: 3.5 starsIn a recent Q&A discussion, Maggie Stiefvater mentioned that she loves to write books that will make you cry your little eyes out.
Now, while the sparks didn't exactly fly between Forever and I, there were a few things that I did really enjoy about this book:1.
I think this is most quotes I have "liked" from just one book.
In fact, Grace confronts her parents in Forever about this.
(hide spoiler)]I'm not entirely sure how I liked the ending.
But on the other, I feel like it just *ends*.
Some things are already there - the writing is beautiful, the characters are well developed, as always - but the plot is rather...flimsy.
I still liked the series, but I'd recommend her latest books more.I liked Sam and Grace.
I think it's wonderful that Maggie can portray different characters and stories, and Sam and Grace's story is extremely different from Puck and Sean's or Blue and Gansey's.
I can't say that I liked Sam and Grace as much as the others, because I find very difficult to imagine a love story like theirs, but I do find them rather cute and romantic.
**3.5 STARS**Forever by Maggie Stiefvater is the conclusion to the Wolves of Mercy Falls series.
3. Sam and Grace being in wolf love is the most adorable thing I ever read.
3. There wasn't nearly enough Isabel and Cole chapters!4.
Overall, I enjoyed the finale to the Wolves of Mercy Falls series.
I got what I needed out of it to feel like the story was complete and I was happy with how things turned out.
Really, I'm more excited that the spin off is a primarily Isabel and Cole story.
However, Cole proved to be extremely intelligent and emotional in this installment and reminded me of many guys I know - not the whole rockstar thing, but the hiding the true emotion thing.In regards to Grace and Sam's relationship.
One minute I was crying, then I was happy, the next minute I was angry at Maggie for ONE particular scene (view spoiler)[I mean "KILLING" COLE in such a terrible, fast way, and "KILLING" HIM FULLSTOP.
THEN Maggie pulls another stunt, which made me happy again (view spoiler)[Cole actually living, I sort of expected it but it still made me immensely happy (hide spoiler)].The entire second half of this installment had me going nuts with emotion and then, it just ended.
As I progressed through Forever, I tried to keep an open mind that it was going to get better.
I really think the author was bored with this series and its characters before she attempted to write the third.
Oh---uh, so I didn’t get to see the colored copy of Forever.Dislikes:*The four points of view.
It seemed ok in Linger because there was more going on.
Isabell and Cole would break in when I would start to get interested.
Anticlimactic and lame.*The End SUCKS.
The End. What a rip off.
It's kind of a shame that her first popular series had to be a werewolf series because it caused people to go into it thinking, "Oh, this is going to be exactly like Twilight" and therefore losing respect for her.
But I see a lot of potential in Stiefvater's writing and ideas and I expect even greater things to come from her in the future.Thirdly, I'm so glad there was no love triangle in these books.
It left me with more of an empty feeling, like I didn't think things had quite been tied together.
(hide spoiler)]Anyway, in the end it was a good book and I enjoyed it.
So, I should have just powered through it…loved on it, rolled within the pages and then lamented on the end of an era.
Will they be able to work together long enough to even come up with a plan?This physically hurts me to write this review but I actually felt that Sam was a moping mess most of this book and I literally wanted to scream “Get your head out of your butt emo boy!” Then the Cole and Isabel dynamic was trying.
I really felt that the first 100 pages were just a big sobbing mess of descriptions and angsty lamenting about how their life sucks.
