https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/346087.Captain_s_Fury
And this time around they were even more boring than usual.Zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz.Too big a chunk of the story was spent following Bernard, Amara, and Gaius on their loooooong journey to Lord Kalare's lands.They're heading into the woods!Now it's raining!Now they're in a swamp!Will they make it in time to save the day?!And, yes.
But there were some really cool stories that unfolded in Captain's Fury, and those kept me coming back for more.Gaius leaves Tavi and his legion with some high-ranking political vipers, which leads him into several (seemingly) impossible situations with massive moral and legal ramifications.
Tavi and other regulars of the series are still where they were left in the end of book 3.
The High Lord of Alera decided that enough is enough and it is time to abandon the diplomacy and show people his raw power.
To make Tavi's life even less boring he happened to stay exactly on the way of some high-powered ambitious lords to their goals.
While the parts related to the High Lord and his companions' misadventures are quite boring, Tavi and the First Legion more than make up for this in the excitement department.
[4 stars] Academ’s Fury and Cursor’s Fury were two of the best fantasy books I’ve ever read – I loved the snot out of them.
They took me on a whirlwind of a ride and so, by comparison, Captain’s Fury was a slower burn, more on par with the first book (although the events that happened within this one still rocked my world).
It seemed more like a set up novel for the last couple books in the series and it did a great job generating some momentum.
I love it!Via The Obsessive Bookseller at www.nikihawkes.com
The series has definitely gotten better each book. I'm glad I stuck with it. The less whiny Tavi gets the better.
They're often seen as the 'bad-guys' and in this book they're against the Aleran's, but some of them are more reasonable than others.So this story once more follows Tavi as the lead character with others also taking leading roles.
Tavi is a young man by the time we meet him in this book and he's been masquerading as Scipio, the young Captain leading troops against the Canim.
She's fun to read about and imagine and I feel like she's the sort of person you'd like to be friends with (because being her enemy would be deadly).Finally Gaius himself deserves a fair mention as he's one of the most powerful men in all of the land with many Furies under his command and a long time of ruling and experience.
Another excellent installment in what has turned out to be an above-average epic fantasy series.
I also find myself really liking the characters Butcher has created and believe that he has done a better job in this series at fleshing out the characters and making them three dimensional than in his more popular Dresden books (which I also like by the way).
As with the previous books, the political elements are always present and Butcher does a good job in creating tension among the various factions while continuing to introduce new players to the game.
This series gets more and more interesting with each book!It could have been a tad shorter as we really didn't need to know so many details about that very long journey of the First Lord through so many places. I get it. It was loooooong and dangerous! And I almost reached the stage of:  Oh, come on!! Still not done with it?! Apart from that however, no complains from me!A thumping good read!And if you love adventure with a great touch of magic, you're going to love this!Those furies are awesome
This series gets more and more interesting with each book!It could have been a tad shorter as we really didn't need to know so many details about that very long journey of the First Lord through so many places.
It was loooooong and dangerous!
And I almost reached the stage of: 
Oh, come on!!
Apart from that however, no complains from me!A thumping good read!And if you love adventure with a great touch of magic, you're going to love this!Those furies are awesome by the way!!
I wish I could get one myself!
Butcher crafts a compelling fantasy. These are some of the first books in years that have given me chills during some of the more stirring scenes. Can't recommend the series enough. Hail Octavian!
Perfection! 5 Every book has gotten better for me and I loved them from the beginning. Instead of a book of theories and questions it was an entire book of ANSWERS! The battle scenes were more condensed and that left more room for personal storylines. LOVE this series!
Executive Summary: While this one didn't live up to my memory of it, it's still a really fun read with a lot to like.Audio book: At this point, I'm used to Kate Reading as a reader and can't imagine anyone else doing it. Full Review I originally maintained my 5 star rating after finishing my reread, but I think if I'm honest and rate it how I would if I were reading it for the first time, it would be a solid 4 star. This book starts and ends really well, but slows down in the middle some. Like t
Like the first two books, some of the subplots just move too slow and left me wanting to get back to Tavi's story.
Mr. Butcher does war well, and I think of all the antagonists of the series, the Canim are by far my favorite.
Mr. Butcher always writes an excellent climax and this one is no different.While there is still a lot yet to resolve, this one ends in a nice place that allowed me to take a short break and read another book.
I've been partially listening to these books, and now there is one person ahead of me in line from the library for the audiobook of book 5.
Sad.Also, I very much appreciate that the audiobooks are narrated by a woman.
In my experience, that only tends so happen when the protagonist is female, and in this case, it is not.Edit: I've wanted to start mentioning it when fantasy authors address periods, especially male authors.
Jim Butcher both acknowledged cramps and the desire not to have sex while on your period (and of course this is individual, many woman do).
The four installment of this series is easily my favorite so far. Taxi really is growing up, isn't he! I love that Jim Butcher can deliver such a sweeping epic fantasy adventure and still take the time to do right by the characters, even those secondary and minor characters I've come to care about. I can't wait to continue this series.
Tavi still overcomes by depending on his wits and forming strong friendships.
A good read, especially aboard the Slive with Captain Demos, and in Alera Imperia with Ambassador Vaug.
Tavi learns a few things about himself, and the cause of his inhibited fury-crafting abilities.
Major problem with the characterization of Fidelius.
Early in book 1, Gaius told Amara that he suspected FIDELIUS.
He knew Fidelius incapable of truly understanding loyalty.
He saw portents of a capacity for vicious treachery when Fidelius was a young graduate.
So, trusting this treacherous, murderous pig diminishes Tavi's and Katai's perceptiveness.On to the next.
Another fun, quick read, although a bit predictable. The main character, Tavi, matures further & is slowly coming into his own, which is neat. The interactions with the Camin are interesting - different cultures meeting & clashing. It's nice to see that the 'good' guys aren't always perfect & often, no matter what they do, their options are limited so that they can seem pretty bad. I'm definitely looking forward to the next book.
Fantastic!
This is the 4th book in this series by Jim Butcher.
Just like with the 3rd one, I loved the ending.
I can't imagine where the next one will go.
Certain info was being constantly revealed as the story progressed.
I loved that part.
There were actually many things I liked about this one.
The story line unfolded at a fair clip.
There was plenty of action and as always, this author does amazing world building.
The characters were also given time to shine as they continued to progress, especially Tavi.
I like the way Jim Butcher puts his stories together.
3.5 Stars 🌟
Admittedly, I did remember many of the characters a bit better this time, but I think the series suffers from the large number of recurring characters.
Butcher's normally good characterization is noticeably absent here--many of the characters are little more than a name and collection of traits.I did finish, I did enjoy the ending, but I personally think the book has taken some wrong turns along the way.
I found the first book refreshing because Tavi was a hero who had to survive through his wits because he had no power of his own.
Bad things continue to happen but the characters are never in any real danger, because no matter what, something will save them.I love fantasy, there is no way around that.
The readers have known it was coming since the end of book 3 (or longer, depending on how quickly you picked up that the titles basically spoil the entire series), but here, it happens.
I don't want to spoil anything so I won't go into details, but I feel like the nobility in this series has to have better things to do than harass Tavi out in the middle of nowhere.
3.5 stars. The perfect combination of action, intrigue, relationship and character development, I enjoyed this one the most of the series so far. The different story lines, settings, and points of view helped to move the overall plot along quite nicely. The H was really my favourite character. Unfortunately, Isana turned into a bit of a caricature in this one, but then again I've never really liked her. Looking forward to book five!

Tavi has grown so much within these 4 books, discovering some very important things about himself. Most of what he learns has in one way or another been hinted at in previous books, so I don’t really think the discoveries came as much of a surprise. Anticipating when these things would be revealed was still exciting though. Enemies are far more faithful than friends…more dependable than allies.  Tavi’s interactions with Varg and Nasaug are some of my most favorite moments. Over the course of tim
Over the course of time Tavi has gained an understanding of their social structure and has learned to use it to his advantage, also earning their deep respect, but not necessarily revoking his status as an enemy.
He’s created a very tentative relationship with the Canim, and I’m curious to see how long that lasts, and how far that will extend to the rest of Alera.And of course, the First Lord is still battling the ongoing political scheming within his borders.
It remains to be seen how the rest of Alera will feel with his most recent decision, and if/how his political enemies will use this event to further their causes.
The battle scenes were amazing and if they weren't in this book I wouldn't love it this very much.
The parts with Canim, loved it.
Even Gaius was amazing out there at the end.We are talking about amazing creatures here the Canim, the Marat, the Leviathans, this book is not just about a war or people in a fantasy world.
I don't even know what to say but I want to say so much more about this book.
(view spoiler)[ I love the Canim, so I'm extra extra excited to go to their lands and continue on this world.
The series started off as a pretty solid and entertaining read but each subsequent book is better than the last.
More interesting, to me, is that Isana and Fade are built into extremely interesting characters in their own right, as they have a solid plot line all there on.
And yet more Bernard and Amara, who are my favorite couple in the series right now.The biggest, and most appreciated, shock to me is that Gaius Sextus actually plays a greater role in this book than in all the other books put together.

This series is such an amazing adventure.
The fourth book in this series is not my favorite only for one reason, they took a huge plot development from the last book and I feel like they didn't totally capitalize on it, if you know what I mean.
That aside, the character development is still the best thing about this series.
My favorite characters throughout this series are constantly Isana and Amara, I just love reading about their struggles and how they are able to overcome each obstacle.
Tavi is close behind with his amazing wit.
Our hero continues to grow into his destiny and things are brought out into the light for all to see in this book.
Some useless parts but overall an enjoyable read!
(Butcher keeps banging on about Kitai and her eyes being like Tavi's) Explains Gaius and his comment.
Sounds like they aren't since Araris is back with Tavi as his body guard.
Maybe it's like Tavi?
Good of him to allow Tavi to ask about Septimus :) While I like Isana/Kitai bonding, just seems a little too convenient that they get along famously.
Like Kitai taking the Mickey out of Isana though :) So Rari thinks Septimus may have passed on his furies to Isana.
Sounds like Kalare was the one who orchestrated the Septimus kill.
This is my first reread, and I enjoyed it very much. Not as much as the first three, but it’s still a great read. My original review is below. ——————————Loved it. It was so great to see Tavi come into his own, and to see him learn the truth of who he is. Captain's Fury is action-packed, and a lot of fun to read. Plus, there were moments I found myself chuckling – whether it was witty banter or just things explained in a way that made me smile. I love this series and Butcher's writing.
