https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37398.Jazz
155. Jazz, Toni MorrisonJazz is a 1992 historical novel by Pulitzer and Nobel Prize-winning American author Toni Morrison. The majority of the narrative takes place in Harlem during the 1920s; however, as the pasts of the various characters are explored, the narrative extends back to the mid-19th-century American South. The novel forms the second part of Morrison's Dantesque trilogy on African-American history, beginning with Beloved (1987) and ending with Paradise (1997). عنوانها: جاز ؛ نویسنده
Jazz, Toni MorrisonJazz is a 1992 historical novel by Pulitzer and Nobel Prize-winning American author Toni Morrison.
The majority of the narrative takes place in Harlem during the 1920s; however, as the pasts of the various characters are explored, the narrative extends back to the mid-19th-century American South.
The novel forms the second part of Morrison's Dantesque trilogy on African-American history, beginning with Beloved (1987) and ending with Paradise (1997).
A city like this one makes me dream tall and feel in on things."Oh, how I adore the lyricism of Toni Morrison.
Set during the Jazz Age in New York City, this book had great potential.
It now became apparent that the title of the story had less to do with any musical plot than it did with the perhaps experimental style of writing.
I can imagine each voice in this story as a different instrument in a jazz ensemble.
However, the shift from one voice or instrument to the next was too jolting, too disjointed.
got lost in all the lovely words, loved getting lost.
minor note but major emotions.
narrative glides down perfect prose pathways and through poetic passages to different destinations, into one mind and out of another, into many minds, past future past future, man.
who knows where the next road goes, probably somewhere bad, tragedy and bloodshed and murder and all kinds of fucked up and twisted emotions, but it all reads so pretty.
can I understand such things?
I don't know but I can try.
this is a history of sorts; it also feels like a beautiful bad dream, my favorite kind.
Yet, and I’ve seen again and again with Morrison (and this is one of the things I admire about her the most), she is able to relay the facts in a non-judgemental way, and somehow she allows us to feel some sort of compassion.Apart from Dorcas, the murdered teenager, the character who I felt for most in this story is Violet.
At the age of 56 she said ,”I want some fat in this life.” This is a lady who experienced childhood tragedy, worked hard, was misunderstood, betrayed by her husband, and became the subject of gossip by her neighbours: “This notion of rest, it’s attractive to her, but I don’t think she would like it.
Sth, I know that woman. She used to live with a flock of birds on Lenox Avenue. Know her husband, too. He fell for an eighteen-year-old girl with one of those deepdown, spooky loves that made him so sad and happy he shot her just to keep the feeling going. When the woman, her name is Violet, went to the funeral to see the funeral and cut her dead face they threw her to the floor and out of the church. She ran, then, through all that snow, and when she got back to her apartment she took the bird
With this terrific first paragraph which encapsulates most of the story, Toni Morrison begins Jazz, her short novel which however, covers an extremely broad canvas.
but above all, it is the story of Harlem in the 1920's and its sinful music: jazz.Morrison uses a jagged storytelling style, with the narrative shifting in the verbal equivalent of jump cuts between people, places and events.
I missed the people altogether.I thought I knew them and wasn't worried that they didn't really know about me.
Joe, seen through his wife's eyes, is different, special, richly worthy of love, and his own telling inspires deep sympathy and liking.
But it's Joe, not Acton, who destroys Dorcas, literally killing her, because it is easy, much too easy, to deal death, much too hard to reject what white supremacist capitalist patriachy teaches: that black women are expendable, that men are entitled to unconditional female loyalty.Missing mothers and a missing motherland for black people in America are imperfectly substituted by fellow orphan migrants to Harlem, where some kind of safety in numbers and mutual support are found.
The gatherer, the teller, bears an authority that comes with responsibility; she does it justice by reminding her hearers that there is no single story, only herstories and histories variously nourished and starved and intertwined.
but check this one from Jazz:It's nice when grown people whisper to each other under the covers.
…Breathing and murmuring under covers both of them have washed and hung out on the line, in a bed they chose together and kept together nevermind one leg was propped on a 1916 dictionary, and the mattress, curved like a preacher's palm asking for witnesses in His name's sake, enclosed them each and every night and muffled their whispering, old-time love.
and:What do they think has happened, the old fools,To make them like this?
Unlike so many others, that parade the usual melting pot, American Dream, Racism themes, Morrison examines human relationships in a real and down to earth way.Having finished the book I walked around in a daze for a couple of days reconsidering almost everything I had previously thought (that is no overstatement).
Though some obvious questions are raised (especially the lives of african-Americans), I did not meditate on racism or poverty, but rather relationships and the ties between human beings.I'm not sure if it was because of the time of my life that i read it, or whatever, but to me Jazz spoke volumes.This book really is amazing.
On the other hand, "The Köln Concert" is a very gorgeous, trippy and hypnotizing live album, elegant without any pretentiousness, Jarrett sounds as if rehearsing poem writing with his piano while spreading hallucinogens on the air.Similarly Morrison's Jazz is not her magnum opus, far from it, but the cadence, lyricism and beauty of her written words is very Jarrett-like, at the same time her writing is, while still technically very complex, as effortless complex as Monk's.
Υπάρχουν συγγραφείς που σου ταιριάζουν και αλλοι που δεν σου ταιριάζουν η Μόρισον για μένα , για τα αναγνωστικά μου γούστα , ανήκει στην δεύτερη κατηγορία . Ποτε δεν ξετρελαθηκα μαζι της . Ποτε δεν μπόρεσε να μου πει όσα ήθελε . Ομως η τεχνη ειναι κατι το υποκειμενικό . Το βιβλιο -οπως και ολα της - δεν ειναι κακο , απλως δεν μου αρέσει/ουν
“We born around the same time, me and you,” said Violet.
“We women, me and you.
Tell me something real.
Don’t just say I’m grown and ought to know.
I don’t.
I’m fifty and I don’t know nothing.
Do I stay with him?
I want to, I think.
now I want.
now I want.
I want some fat in this life.” “Wake up.
Fat or lean, you got just one.
This is it.” “You don’t know either, do you?” “I know enough to know how to behave.” “Is that it?
Is that all it is?” Perhaps, someo
Perhaps, someone can help me with this, but despite all the talk of “change” and looking ahead and not allowing the past to entrap us in her preface, I see Morrison actually preoccupied with its reconstruction, rather than allowing her characters to escape its confines, its memory.
I mean, Joe’s mother is named “Wild” here in the novel, so I don’t know how it could be any more obvious.
If not as compelling and poetic as Song of Solomon, Morrison’s fans will still appreciate this novel as it talks of love, and how sometimes all we need is a little grace and acceptance to get through life.

It’s that view of life stripped down to nothing but the basic.
Why else does adversity create some of the best art?
Jazz, because life requires improvisation; this is a route that no one has traveled.
Once it’s over, that time and place are gone.Morrison confounds in a world where we don’t know how to experience.
Like jazz, life is improvised as you go.
However, we share life, and improvisation is required from everyone to make a unified expression.
But the musical proficiency is easier as you go, and the fun part, like reading Morrison, is experiencing each note in that one moment it’s played.
I like Toni Morrison. Beloved is one of my top 10 favorite books of all time. My first Morrison, The Bluest Eye, took me by surprise with it's power. I appreciated the rhythm of Jazz, but couldn't connect to the story.
It is set in Harlem during the Jazz Age and tells the story of a long term relationship between a husband and wife that is in deep trouble.
In lyrical prose the reader learns that the husband's young lover is already dead.
She explains how indifferent they are towards each other, her love for the City, her disdain for the dead woman, and how it was that she came to disfigure the young woman's corpse with a knife at the funeral.
Their stories are a composite of artful storytelling.The plot follows the evolution of their life-long relationship.
The maturity really shines in the later chapters where we get to know the narrator and the relationship between Joe and Violent in more depth.
But as I read the last chapter again, I realized that Violet was Toni Morrison’s stand in.
Violet, like all of the characters in the book, evolved and reinvented herself in ways Morrison couldn’t predict.
Every author begins to feel this way about their characters -- after a while.
It takes maturity to let your characters walk on their own by and by and to not try to make them into something other than what they are.
"...and when she got back to her apartment she took the birds from their cages and set them out the windows to freeze or fly, including the parrot that said, 'I love you.'""Maybe she thought she could solve the mystery of love that way.
If you don't know how, you can end up out of control or controlled by some outside thing...""You are there, it says, because I am looking at you.""This notion of rest, it's attractive to her, but I don't think she would like it.
The place of shade without trees where you know you are not and never again will be loved by anybody who can choose to do it?""'You want a real thing?' asked Alive.
But doesn’t this relationship mirror the love triangle between Dorcas, Joe, and Violet….?Oh man, Toni Morrison.
This is a wonderfully complicated book and it’s hard to even give a short summary because I feel like it doesn’t do justice to the complexity of the novel.
HER ONLY CHILD, A LITTLE GIRL NAMED DORCAS, SLEEPING ACROSS THE ROAD WITH HER VERY BEST GIRLFRIEND, DID NOT HEAR THE FIRE ENGINE CLANGING AND ROARING DOWN THE STREET BECAUSE WHEN IT WAS CALLED IT DIDN’T COME.”I loved the contrast between New York City and rural Virginia, which was beautifully symbolized by Violet’s caged birds and the Redwing birds in Virginia.
Toni Morrison wrote a trilogy exploring African-American history through three crucial periods.
Morrison is interested in the Great Migration - the process by which all these black people ended up in Harlem in the first place - and it all feels a little anthropological to me.
I liked the central story, in which a guy kills his mistress and then the guy's wife shows up to disrupt the mistress's funeral.
But I kept getting pulled away from it so everyone could tell their origin stories.
Morrison has two bad habits: postmodernism and corniness.
They're both over-indulged in here, and this isn't my favorite Morrison.
Αυτή την ιστορία χρησιμοποιεί σαν αφορμή η συγγραφέας για να δημιουργήσει το βιβλίο το οποίο της χάρισε ουσιαστικά το Νόμπελ λογοτεχνίας, αφού το βιβλίο εκδόθηκε το 1992 και την αμέσως επόμενη χρονιά, το 1993, η Morrison βραβεύεται.Το παρελθόν του Τζο αλλά και της Βάιολετ, ακόμα και της ίδιας της κοπέλας που δολοφονήθηκε, της Ντόρκας, έρχεται και φεύγει μέσα στη γραφή της Morrison, μεταφέροντας τον αναγνώστη από το παρόν στο παρελθόν και τούμπαλιν από τη μία παράγραφο στην άλλη.
I listened to this book once and then immediately began again.
I loved Toni's voice and the good jazz music infused through the novel, however that is only part of my reason for rereading.
I needed to listen twice to even begin to comprehend the depth of the issues presented here.
I read this book as a young woman , but did not understand it at all and as a result found it very difficult to read.
Presented here are the lives of people searching for that first love every baby is entitled to at birth.
Desde el primer momento noté que a la novela le debía de estar cayendo muy bien porque era digno de encomio el esfuerzo que estaba realizando por gustarme y mantenerme a su lado.
Yo me dejaba querer intentando que no se me notara mucho lo encantado que estaba de haberla conocido, no fuera a ser que bajara su solicitud hacia mi persona.
aunque no sé qué dirá ella, porque, la verdad, yo nunca he sido un amante ideal.
هذهِ الرواية تمثل صدمة جمالية، جمال لا عهد لي بهِ في كل ما قرأتهُ سابقاً، جمالٌ قادم ٌ من البشاعة والقسوة في الحياة، قسوة تم الإعتياد عليها بشكل لا يُفهم، لا أحد يفهم كمّ ما يتحمله الإنسان، ما تحمله العرق الأسود بالذات من الإضطهاد.
هناك أيضاً ما يُميز هذا الكاتبة، هذهِ التوني موريسون العظيمة؛ وهو أسلوبها السردي بدمج حكايات الشخصيات والتلاعب بحرفية في السرد وصوت السارد.
هذهِ الرواية واحدة من أفضل النصوص السردية برأيي، وأتمنى أن يُتاح لي الحظ لقرائتها ورقياً.
Just as 'Beloved' dealt with maternal love, in this work Morrison turns to jealousy and romantic love and produces another brilliant novel: poetic, vivid, sensual.
Looking at the negative comments that some of the reviewers have given I think they mainly boil down to the effect that Morrison is difficult to read.
If you're not willing to put in some effort and to actually use your imagination, then you had better return this to the book-store and swap it for that Stephen King novel you had your eyes on.
A Morrison novel is a genuine work of art but it requires to put some work in and to play your own part in creating the story.
Toni Morrison più che il Nobel avrebbe meritato un Oscar (anche due, un altro per la miglior punteggiatura non protagonista). Lo dico senza ironia.
A whole world is born in the first paragraph of Jazz. It breathes in and breathes out, rippling the edges of you with a gust of unrelenting force, and then you’re there.
This novel had me at its foreword (in edition I read there was this fascinating foreword written by Morrison herself in which she compared novel with jazz music).Think of this!
More serious, more complicated than tears.' Toni Morrison, Jazz It wasn't easy to select just one quote to share with you because there are so many memorable passages in this novel, but I think the one I choose works well enough.
Yes, more hopeful, more open to it and in one way it even prepared me to be willing to be more vulnerable because it made me believe that the complexity of human heart is a beautiful thing.
بین این پرنده ها طوطی ای هم بود که مدام می گفت :«دوستت دارم».کتابهایی که شروعی چنین طوفانی دارند همیشه جزو محبوبترین کتابهام هستن و «جاز» هم با همین شروع به سادگی دلم رو بدست آورد و ثابت کرد ارزش این رو داشت که سالها دنبالش باشم، «جاز» در واقع قسمت دوم از سه گانه ی تونی موریسون هست که با «دلبند» شروع شده و به «بهشت» ختم میشه.جو تریس (همسر ویولت) پس از انجام قتل ,به دلیل نبود مدارک کافی, متهم نشده است.
SPOILERSOverview: Joe Trace is a middle aged married man (Violet, wife) who has an affair with an 18 year old Dorkas and shoots her over anguish of her breaking up with him.
Characters: The first half of the book looked at Violet and touched on the affair and general growing up aspects in what I would call a simple to read type writing.
However, the second half of the book was almost written by a different author.
I didn't care why he cheated - why Violet let the birds go - why Dorkas let herself die.
The language of this book is so beautiful, which makes an interesting counter-point to the lives of the characters which often are so far from beautiful. The structure of the narrative can feel a little disjointed at times as Morrison jumps from time to time, narrator to narrator. Despite this she weaves a moving tale with light and shade like the eponymous music for which the story is named. I highly recommend the audiobook, which for me really made the poetry and rhythm of the words more apparent.
