https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/351563.Hangman_s_Holiday
Hangman’s Holiday is a collection of short stories and Dorothy L.
Monty figures out who and how it was done.Maher-Shalal-Hashbaz Rather a bold name for a ginger cat, but when he came back Monty had to find out why.The last two short stories are less mysteries than they are a look inside the minds and motives of those who contemplate and/or commit murder:The Man Who Knew How Why are all the papers filled with deaths by people in their baths?
However, I have to say that my very favourites in this collection were the two final stories in this book; the stand alone stories, “The Man Who Knew How,” and “The Fountain Plays.” Of the Lord Peter stories, “The Queen’s Square,” concerning a murder at a ball had a lot of good Wimsey banter, while “The Necklace of Pearls,” had a Christmas house party setting.Montague Egg is a fun character, who appeared in eleven short stories – six appear in this volume, while five appear, “In the Teeth of the Evidence.” With his maxim’s from the, “Salesman’s Handbook,” and his intelligent mind, he is a really great amateur detective and interesting character.
My main complaint about this one was the changes in sound quality every so often, and narrator Nadia May (who’s well suited to reading Golden Age detective stories) could have done with a better mic to take the brittle edge off her voice—although I suppose it was quite suitable that she sounded as if she were speaking into a mic from the 1930s.The stories themselves are pretty entertaining.
You can read this book on two levels: one is for mere entertainment, and one is for the Sayers enthusiast who wants to get a better understanding of her development as a writer.
The first of these is rather weak, but the second one has a creepy horror story quality to it (Sayers edited a collection of detection and horror tales) and has stuck in my mind from my first reading of the book years ago.
It is also fun to catch a glimpse of his mother, the Dowager Duchess, with her stream of consciousness talking.However, on this reading of the book I enjoyed the stories involving Sayers' second sleuth, Montague Egg, even more than the Wimsey ones.
A shame Monty never starred in a novel.There are also two standalone stories at the end of the book, which both have clever plots and twists in the tail.
At the onset, I thought of writing a review in my usual way.
After writing a few lines I hit the backspace button continuously until all of it disappeared.
Being totally honest to the narrative which was straight as an arrow, it is way better to cut through the archaic descriptions and call this a damn fine set of stories !
The mysteries themselves are rather well etched as puzzles even when the content is that of a murder and such is the beauty of writing.
Includes:The image in the mirror --The incredible elopement of Lord Peter Wimsey --The queen's square --The necklace of pearls --The poisoned dow '08 --Sleuths on the scent --Murder in the morning --One too many --Murder at Pentecost --Maher-Shalal-Hashbaz --The man who knew how --The fountain playsThis is a really good collection of short stories featuring Lord Peter Wimsey, and Montague Egg. This is my first encounter with Mr Egg and I am looking forward to reading more featuring this very sharp minded travelling salesman.
A couple of stories in, I realised I had already read much of this book within a different collection of short stories by DL Sayers. They are good but not great. If you like the Peter Wimsey books they are worth a read but perhaps not a reread.
Not enough Bunter. Never enough Bunter.
I like the way she PLAYS in short stories.2) I have never read any Montague Egg stories before and I'm SO glad the novels are about Peter Wimsey instead.
I mean, Monty's heart is in the right place, but he's awfully earnest.3) What further do we learn about Peter's character here?"My religious beliefs are a little ill-defined.""I'm a bit of a conjurer myself."4) Rural garages no longer use "clock-faces with movable hands to show lighting-up time." Wow, it took me a LONG time to work out what this meant, and it was key to the plot, as well.
And didn't recall being crazy about the Montagu Egg stories.
But the story that really knocked me out was "The Man Who Knew How".
Guy is reading a detective story on the train (author taking a swipe at writers who write intelligent school stories - possibly at Edmund Crispin or Michael Innes?) who isn't too sure about how a guy is looking at him.
Just look at all these people being found dead in their baths.
The reader starts noticing that many people are being found dead in their baths.
This story falls in the ironic category.
I'd hoped those were the stories that were in this volume, on the principle that it was a 'hangman's holiday' in the sense that there was no work for said 'hangman'.To prevent others from being similarly disappointed, and just on general principles, I will include a table of contents: LORD PETER WIMSEY STORIESI The Image in The Mirror: Contains some interesting observations about how we interpret images of ourselves, but there was no real need to bring in an improbably ruthless character to illustrate those observations.II The Incredible Elopement of Lord Peter Wimsey: This one involves a cruel but non-'capital' crime--a case of a doctor practicing sexual, physical, and emotional abuse on his adopted child whom he (quite illegally) married.
I couldn't have even come in the described building, if the lighting was like what's described.IV The Necklace of Pearls: This is another non-'capital' story, involving Sayers' hatred of Christmas.
Meh. A collection of Sayers' short stories.
Some feature Lord Peter, but most have working-class sleuth Montague Egg solving mysteries and spouting adages from the salesman's handbook.
I find these stories to be small gems of ideas dressed up as short fiction.
There's a Christmas theft feature (The Necklace of Pearls), two poisonings, several murders, cats, fancy-dress parties, trains and some blackmail in the mix.
One that will puzzle anyone who doesn't have a solid grasp on the endocrine system is “The Incredible Elopement of Lord Peter Wimsey”.
This does NOT feature Harriet Vane - Lord Peter is helping a lady in distress.
***.This is a collection of short stories by Ms. Sayer that displays her skill in the mystery genre.
There are a total of twelve stories in all: four featuring Lord Peter Wimsey, six featuring Montague Egg, and two “other” stories with no series hero.
I was pleased to discover her character Montague Egg. He was a travelling salesman dealing in wines and spirits, and managed to make his way around England vending his wares.
In all, this collection shows a side of Sayers that we don’t normally see in her novels.
These stories can be roughly divided into the Lord Peter's, the Montague Egg's, and the standalones.I liked the Lord Peter stories.
They were not nearly as good as the novels.I think the Montague Egg stories worked the best.
Something about his personality worked better for short stories.
It might also be that because I'm used to reading Lord Peter in novel form, which I think probably relies more on characterization than just straight up mystery, that the short story worked better with a protagonist where I'm not looking for interactions with other characters.The standalones generally didn't work for me at all.
3.5 starsErrr, not what I expected as only 4 out of 12 of these stories involve Peter!
Then there are six with Montague Egg, who Google tells me Sayers used in several short stories, and 2 just completely stand alone.I actually liked the Montague Egg stories best.
So many of these Peter short stories seem experimental, like these ones verged on horror.
It feels almost like reading about a different character leading not-quite the same life.
You don't get many non-Peter regular characters at all.But the Egg ones were fun!
Almost brain teasers.The stand alones were not really my thing.
Wie immer absolut delightful und wunderschön geschrieben, aber teilweise waren mir die Kurzgeschichten ein bisschen zu kurz um die Atmosphäre und die Charas richtig zu genießen. Aber sehr unterhaltsam.
Lovely, small collection, with some considerable attention given to Montague Egg and his Serviceman's handbook.
A great collection of murder mystery short stories.
I'm not really a short story person, and I also don't think the short story format is the best way to deploy Lord Peter Wimsey, as his stories are so much more dependent on character work than on actual mysteries—Dorothy L.
Sayers lampshades this, almost, in one of the stories included herein, with a character lamenting that detective stories tend to be "rather lacking in characterization and human interest", which is of course the cardinal genre norm that she subverts with Lord Peter—but I would be an absolute monster if I couldn't still appreciate Dorothy's fine work.
In any case, there is a broader spectrum in this collection of shorts than in the previous Sayers compilations, which was a good thing, and demonstrated her versatility; from the tiresome Montague Egg with his constant quotes from the apocryphal Salesman's Handbook (sorry, the Egg is addled IMO), through the typical Wimsey-as-boy-wonder (I love Lord Peter, but not in his short-story Deus Ex Machina mode), to the frankly creepy, and on to the now-we-know-silly idea that a hormonal deficiency can turn one to a maundering hunk of insentient flesh.
I'm just sorry I missed out on a couple of the tales--and that says a lot.
Sayers' Hangman's Holiday, an old short story collection featuring several shorter pieces about the redoubtable Lord Peter Wimsey as well as her lesser-known amateur sleuth, Montague Egg.I continue to like Sayers' novels better than her short pieces, and I definitely prefer novels when it comes to mysteries in general; with short pieces it often seems like you have only enough time for the crime and then the immediate solution.
Sayers definitely gets around that in several of the pieces in this collection, though.
This collection of 12 short stories, predominantly featuring Lord Peter Wimsey and Montague Egg, are a gentle introduction to Ms. Sayers’ writing.
Poirot).I’ve not read any Sayers before, but after Alex was raving about a Wimsey mystery, this little collection was just right.
The short stories are a bit shorter (12 in 256 pages) than the set of Christie short stories I reviewed, and that may be why I enjoyed them more; the writing had to be tighter.Wimsey and Egg are both excellent detective characters with their own foibles and idiosyncrasies without being isolating or offputting.
This is a collection of short stories - some featuring Lord Peter Wimsey, some featuring clever salesman Montague Egg and two crime short stories which don't feature either character.
I particularly liked 'The Necklace of Pearls' in which Lord Peter uses his powers of observation to find a missing necklace and 'The Queen's Square' which also features events at a party.Montague Egg, with his rhyming couplets, sunny temperament and excellent powers of observation, is a marvellous character.
This is an excellent and varied collection of crime short stories and I recommend it to anyone who enjoys short stories as well as fans of DLS.
Extremely short and wildly uneven. Interesting to see how her non-Wimsey stories compare. Very interesting to see her dip a toe into the early 20th century horror genre. She captures ghastly almost too well. Also, there's an interesting bit of meta on "one of those mystery novels" that rips it apart on exactly the lines of what bugged me about Have His Carcase. Makes me suspect DLS was srsly blocked in this era and sending any damned thing to the publisher while struggling to put another good novel together.
Short stories, mostly featuring Sayers' predominant heroes Lord Peter Wimsey and Montague Egg. To me they were mostly fine, but there were two standouts.In "The Incredible Elopement of Lord Peter Wimsey," Lord Peter comes to the aid of Professor Langley, who has discovered his former beloved in a degenerated condition, sequestered in Pyrenees with her physician husband. The gruesomeness of the story benefits from an intelligent drama."The Man Who Knew How" features neither detective, and like the other, this story depends on the volatile mix of two specific personalities.
This isn't actually a Wimsey book. It's a collection of short mystery stories, two of which have Wimsey in them. Most of them are about Monty Egg. Enjoyable, but a little more scattered.
Nice collection of short mysteries
Now that I've started I remember reading this collection in high school. The stories so far are weirder than her norm -- almost Father Brown-ish.
As much as I love the detail-rich, full-length Peter Wimsey novels, Dorothy Sayers holds up just as well in short form.
There are only four Wimsey stories in this book.
One of them, The Incredible Elopement of Lord Peter Wimsey, just happens to be a story that I've been searching for after having read it once decades ago.
Reading it again was a wonderful experience because I'd forgotten a lot of the little details.
The plots and writing are lighter than the Wimsey stories, and we don't get a detailed wrap-up at the end, but I found them to be very satisfying.
This is another short story collection: 4 Lord Peter Wimsey stories, 6 featuring Montague Egg and 2 general murder stories both with ambiguous endings.I really enjoyed the Montague Egg stories.
My favorite story was Murder at Pentecost, set at the fictional Pentecost College in Oxford.
Although the college is fictional, other places mentioned are real, particularly the Bodleian Library where M.
We didn't get to see the Bodleian (spent too much time at the Botanical Gardens and the Ashmolean) but it's definitely on the list for next time.The final story of the collection, The Fountain Plays, is very familiar.
