https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24611919-liberty-bar

Ένα από τα 'νουάρ' αστυνομικά μυθιστορήματα του Σιμενόν κατάλληλο για το καλοκαίρι. Οι περιγραφές της Αντίμπ, της Νίκαιας και της Κυανής είναι πολύ 'ζωντανές', ικανές να μεταφέρουν τους αναγνώστες εκεί, ενώ η ιστορία της δολοφονίας έχει ενδιαφέρον και ικανοποιητική εκκίνηση. Πέρα από αυτά, όμως, ο ρυθμός της πλοκής είναι αργός και οι περιγραφές των χαρακτήρων των ηρώων περιλαμβάνουν κάποια στοιχεία που επαναλαμβάνονται. Επιπρόσθετα, το τελικό ξεκαθάρισμα, ενδεχομένως, να 'θολώσει' την ειδυλλιακή 'νουάρ' ατμόσφαιρα της ιστορίας. Βαθμολογία: 3,88/5 ή 7,76/10.
Just when I think I’ve finally gotten the true measure of Chief Inspector Maigret, you write a 180-degree curve into a novel, making me reassess the French sleuth yet again.
But just as soon as I’ve written him off as an insufferable, distasteful sexist, Maigret finds two other women — the fat, motherly widow, Jaja, who owns and runs the Liberty Bar in Cannes, and her friend, the young, tender-hearted prostitute Sylvie — and he waxes so admiringly about them both, that — yet again — I don’t know what to think about Maigret.
Read it for its sketches of sun-drenched Antibes and Cannes and for Boutigues, the dashing inspector always on the hunt for a good place for a drink (occasionally contributing a clue or two), and for the Liberty Bar itself with its louche denizens, delicious food and its fruit machine. What exactly is a fruit machine? I pictured an over-sized gumball machine filled with oranges operated with exotic metal tokens. The reality is more prosaic but let me have my fantasy. The plot itself is meandering and frustrating and more like the romans durs than a traditional mystery.
مگره موجود غریبی است واقعا. انگار که از داستانهای غیرمعمایی آمده و پایش توی داستانهای معمایی باز شده. میتوانست آدم نابوکوف باشد، میتوانست پنین باشد که شغلش را عوض کرده و شده کارآگاه پلیس. میتوانست اشتیلر باشد حتی. لابد خیلی از ما دوستداران قصههای معمایی فکر، و حتی آرزو، کردهایم که کاش داستانهای عزیزمان را میشد با داستانهای عادیای که بهشان «جریان اصلی» میگویند ترکیب کرد و آن لذت ناب و مکاشفه غافلگیرکننده جهان و انسانها را، که در آن داستانها اتفاق میافتد، با جذابیت و طعم نگاه بیرحم و لحظات بحرانی
می‌تواند وسط داستان کشف کند که خودش چه قدر شبیه آن بیچاره‌ای است که جنازه‌اش را گذاشته‌اند توی تابوت و از کشف این شباهت به یک درک حسی برسد که چرا مقتول بدبخت این میخانه را دوست داشت.
مگره نه مثل شرلوک هلمز و پوآرو و باقی کارآگاه‌های انگلیسی ارتباط حسی‌اش را با جهان خارج قطع کرده و معنای چیزها را فقط در تالار ذهنی‌اش، یا پای برج ساخته شده با کارت‌های پاسورش، می‌فهمد و نه مثل فیلیپ مارلوی چندلر و کارآگاه بی‌نام داشیل همت و باقی نوآرنویس‌ها آن قدر درگیری حسی با ماجرا پیدا می‌کند که خودش را سوژه ماجراها کند و عاشق مظنون و متهم و شاهد شود.
5 αστεράκια γιατί είναι ο Μαιγκρέ και γιατί έτσι!!!
Oddio, sembra un giallo!E mi ritrovo, a solo un euro, in giro per i bar di Cannes con Maigret , buon compagno di bevute, da quel che so..
Un 'Bar liberty', dove liberty è anche il sentimento, il chiacchierare, il bere e...l'amare.Tutto il resto è vita grama e grama vita.Tutto il resto è solo abbandono e tradimento.
No, sbaglio...si può tradire senza abbandonare, grande mistero...Tutto ciò diventa movente.
Assassinio.Che dire del merluzzo mantecato della signora Maigret?Solo che il signor Maigret è ben strano a tornare ogni volta, dopo, alla sua normalità casalinga con un grande appetito!!!
Ognuno fa quel che può per difendersi ...
Maigret is not very likable is he? He is kinda whiny and tired the whole time and he doesn't really give a damn about Justice, he is quite happy to solve the puzzle and then just leave it all to play out and go home.
Μια ακόμα εξαιρετική περιπέτεια του Μαιγκρέ! Τι να πεις για τον Σιμενόν, όλα είναι ένα κ ένα!
Chief Inspector Maigret is on special assignment in the Côte d'Azur.
He is met at the train station in Antibes by a young inspector by the name of Boutigues.
Boutigues, knowing of Maigret's reputation, tries to ingratiate himself with the veteran policemen of the Paris Police Judiciare.
As he goes about uncovering the clues and questioning people who were associated with the Australian (who, it turns out, lived a somewhat schizophrenic existence), Maigret becomes caught up in the festive and somnolent atmosphere of the Côte d'Azur - "...
MAIGRET ON THE RIVIERA.
****.Warning: Later reprints of this novel use the title with “Maigret” in it.
Simenon’s Maigret books sell better than his “roman dur” novels, so…Maigret is put a bit off his feed in this episode.
He is ordered to go to the South of France to investigate the death of a Mr. Brown.
Brown was a man who lived in the countryside of one of the Riviera towns, along with two women.
Needless to say, Maigret manages to discover the killer while utilizing maximum tact, while also trying to enjoy the new surroundings of this area of France.
I have read seven Maigret novels in the past year, and this is the most satisfying of them all, despite the fact that almost nothing happens.
William Brown, the dissipated, expatriate head of the wealthiest sheep ranch in Australia, has died on the steps of his rundown villa, stabbed in the back.
Because Brown has a distinguished war record involving army intelligence in addition to his wealthy background, Maigret has been given explicit instructions that there is to be "no dramas." Of course, the situation is a nest of potential drama, but Maigret meets the principal players, in all their sleazy glory, sorts things out and leaves.
Maigret è in trasferta in Costa Azzurra, non in vacanza, ma mandato dai superiori per l'assassinio di un australiano.
I superiori "soprattutto" non vogliono grane e l'australiano in Costa Azzurra...
che ci fa un australiano lì negli anni '30?
Ben presto anche Maigret si lascia prendere dall'atmosfera indolente , quasi malinconica, della Costa Azzurra e, soprattutto, del Liberty Bar. Infatti anche il finale è insolito: stavolta l'assassino...Sarà la nostalgia dei racconti di mamma e papà sulla vita in Costa Azzurra negli anni '60 (io ero troppo piccola per ricordarmelo), sarà che dopo la scomparsa di mamma tutto ciò che mi parla di lei è soffuso di nostalgia e malinconia, ma anche la lettura di questo libro è stata così: malinconica, nostalgica, un po' dolce.
اسم الكتاب: جريمة في الريفيرا.المؤلف:جورج سيمنون.عدد الصفحات:189 صفحة.يحقق كبير المفتشين ميجريه في قضية مقتل اللص التائب مارسلان حيث يعتقد بأنه قتل بسبب علاقته القديمة بالمحقق ميجريه... في الواقع هي أول تجربة لي مع جورج سيمنون لم تكن  تلك الرواية الرائعة لكنها لم تكن بالسيئة أيضا،هي جيدة قد تعجب البعض أما أنا فلم تعجبني كثيرا...
Only the alarm clock went busily on with the day’s work, pushing its black hands, which seemed too heavy for it, around its pasty face.
A sober Australian businessman goes to the riviera and goes off the rails, leaving his family business behind for debauchery. He’s murdered for reasons that seem to have to do with money but don’t. A plot involving the Demi Monde and a lot of drinking as Maigret solves fhe crime “without making waves”, as his superiors requested. The atmosphere in Liberty Bar, with its wreck of an owner and the young prostitute Sylvie, is a bit like Zola. A very claustrophobic mystery despite fhe holiday setting by the sea.
Grandissima tenerezza nelle pagine finali è un bel recupero nella trama che andava un po' ingrigendosi. Molto bello come tutti i simenon.
I started reading these Georges Simenon classics after picking up a couple of the reissues put out this year by Penguin.
He finds a small clue in the dead man's pocket that leads him to a dive bar and to a trio of odd characters -- and ultimately to the real solution of the case.What bothered me was that, for at least the second time in the collection of reissues, Maigret at the end decides his own version of justice is better than what the law requires.
I hope next time I read one of these Simenon classics, Maigret actually arrests someone.
Liberty Bar is an early Maigret and most of the early Maigret novels are not really whodunits: often there is only one suspect, the interesting questing is why they dunit and Maigret has to understand the motive to solve the crime.
Liberty Bar works as a whodunit.
As always in the Maigret novels the point is the investigation of character: we share Maigret’s process of understanding the motives and personalities of the characters.
As always in the Maigret novels the final revelation is not so much the revelation of the murderer as the revelation of the motives that lead to murder.
Very quiet indeed.There are, I believe, about 100 novels and short stories featuring the detective and I've read about 10 of them so generalizations are a bit premature, but so far I find I like this man tremendously and I have begun to see how his mind works and how he uses a combination of old-fashioned information gathering by routine police methods and sudden intuitive jumps.2012 No 38
A good, but not outstanding, Maigret novel. Maigret goes to the French Riviera to investigate the fatal stabbing of a wealthy Australian domiciled in France and estranged from his grasping family, one working in the neighbourhood too. Maigret gets to know the women he lived with, and the women in the tiny bar he frequented, in order to disentangle the lives and motives of those close to the victim.
داستان نسبتا خوبی بود با اینکه قبلی هاش برام جذاب تر بودن ولی این هم خوب بودحس میکنم اوایل کار مترجم بوده چون همین مترجم کتابای دیگه توی همین سری رو بهتر ترجمه کرده بودو البته بعضی جاها سانسور شده بود چون مربوط به روابط پیچیده بین شخصیت دوم داستان و چندتا خانم دیگه میشد !!
Ben presto il commissario scopre che le circostanze sono un po’ diverse, tanto che non solo l’uomo vive in una villa modesta con due donne mediocri, ma si avventura sovente nell’infima taverna del titolo sito nella zona portuale di Cannes: è qui, tra la vecchia e sfatta Jaja e la giovane prostituta Sylvie che sta la chiave del mistero di un omicidio lontano dalle spiegazioni più ovvie.
Liberty Bar Georges Simenon, 1932Un Maigret toujours vêtu à la parisienne descend dans le Midi, à Antibes, où tout sent les vacances. Le soleil omniprésent, les gens habillés en blanc et bleu, les raquettes sous le bras, l’odeur sucré des mimosas. Tout est plongé derrière un voile d’irréalité. Néanmoins, un homme a été assassiné… Un homme important, autrefois, alors la consigne c’est la discrétion. Pas d’histoires !Dans ses va et vient, il rencontre les deux Martinis, mère et fille ; la grosse J
Liberty Bar				Georges Simenon, 1932Un Maigret toujours vêtu à la parisienne descend dans le Midi, à Antibes, où tout sent les vacances.
Pour revenir à la réalité, il se répète que William Brown a été assassiné.Mais à Cannes où ses démarches le mènent, il découvre aussi les ruelles minables et la grande trouvaille : le Liberty BarLà, le temps n’existe guère, même l’ambition de l’argent.
Un style sobre dans ce roman, mais plein de petits détails, de nuances, des sous-entendus...Un Maigret presque tendre, dépassé, débordé, noyé par tout cette mer, tout ce soleil et tout ce grand boulevard qui s’étend de Cannes à Menton.Liberty Bar, un chef d’œuvre.Manuel de Français
When Maigret stepped off the train, half of the railway station at Antibes was bathed in sunlight so intense that the people coming and going were reduced to shadows.
The extract above is the opening of the book, and it is hard not to marvel at how elegantly and concisely Simenon sets up the scene for this book.
The other great quality that comes through all the books is attention to character, and Liberty Bar is really a book about character, beginning with Maigret's construction of the victim's personality over the opening chapters.
Too quality Maigret.
En menos de un año (la primera novela con Maigret de protagonista es de 1931), Simenon hizo suyo el viejo adagio del "menos es más": menos complejidad a la trama le da más tensión a la historia; menos enredos de personajes devienen en psicologías más profundas y a la vez más cotidianas.
La del Liberty Bar es, como dice el propio Maigret, una historia de amor y de alcohol, con un muerto y vari@s sospechosos quienes, en su simplicidad, a la vez que en la evidencia de su culpabilidad, hacen mucho más rica la retórica.
MAIGRET ON THE RIVIERA (1940) by Georges Simenon is a great example of logical thinking, exploring the back lanes, and the power of letting others do the talking.
When a man dies on his front step, the two women he lives with panic.
That he has been stabbed is obvious, where the stabbing occurred is not so forth coming.
The man drove himself back from town.
And what of the missing days that occur every month, and which just happened prior to his return home.
This is an interesting little puzzle, as are all Simenon's Maigret novels.

So, after seeing Maigret is a show on Britbox and considering giving it a go soon, I find we have two copies of the Simenon series at the local library where I work, and grabbed this one. Short. Blunt but with crisp clips of wording I loved. Simenon was a darn good writer, and I'm glad to have read this and will take in more soon.. Maigret is a wonderfully stern policeman, pipe smoking, black wearing Parisian. I love how the Riviera setting dulls his perception and affects the case!Brilliant storytelling in under 150 pages. Formidable.
A short take:Again, the mystery that pulls Maigret into the story is less interesting than the people Maigret meets as he unravels the plot. I love how well Simenon establishes the feel of a place in just a few sentences. Each Maigret book peers into a different corner of the 1930s and pokes around and sees what people were up to. For that insight, alone, I would continue reading this series. Maigret, too, fascinates me, and 17 books in, I’m still learning about him and how he operates in the job.
