https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30097.The_Eternal_Champion
Why was I chosen? I still do not know…I shall always be here. And if, as wise men tell me, time is cyclic, then I shall one day return to part of the cycle I knew as the twentieth century, for (it was not a wish of mine) I am immortal.  I enjoyed my first introduction to Michael Moorcock’s fascinatingly complex multiverse, and even more fascinating character – the Eternal Champion. The stories of Erekose, The Eternal Champion and Phoenix in Obsidian, were my two favorites of the four in this v
I enjoyed my first introduction to Michael Moorcock’s fascinatingly complex multiverse, and even more fascinating character – the Eternal Champion.
The stories of Erekose, The Eternal Champion and Phoenix in Obsidian, were my two favorites of the four in this volume.
I loved the concept of this character, as he not only serves an eternal destiny, but vaguely remembers his former aspects, or those he will eventually become.
But like To Rescue Tanelorn, it introduced characters important to other series within the multiverse, and the different aspects within the cycles of the eternal champion, so I may have reread it eventually.
http://panopticonitalia.blogspot.it/2...The Eternal Champion is the first volume fantasy eponymous cycle, written by Michael Moorcock and published on the UK market in 1962.
Although the plot may seem straightforward, there are a few twists that make it more interesting the story and allow significant points of reflection to the reader; over that bloody battles and clashes with cold.Ultimately I believe that The Eternal Champion is a great fantasy book and I recommend it to all lovers of the genre.
When White Wolf Publishing began anthologizing the Eternal Champion series in the 1990's, the three novels and one short story included here made up the first volume.
In the eponymous novel, one John Dakar is summoned by incantations into a far future earth to take on the role of Erekose.
But having just read the first novel in this series, it comes as no real surprise that there are nobler options for Ulrik's support.It sounds oxymoronic to suggest that this first volume is for completists only.
*****SPOILERS******While the book starts off promising with the 'resurrection' of Erekose, the Eternal Champion, the book quickly devolves into a simplistic humans-hate-other-race-and-are-therefore-the bad-guys story.
While Erekose is summoned by the humans to fight against the alien Eldren (read elves because that's what they are) he ends up switching sides and exterminating the human race....for no clear reason and to the contrary of what he has tried to do during the entire book.This book fails on many levels.
The war between the humans and Eldren is never fully explained other than....'we fight alot' and the end of the war is equally anticlimactic as Erekose switches sides and convinces the Eldren to use their 'forbidden weapons' (pretty sure this is cliche).
Four stories each featuring the Eternal Champion.
The first story is Moorcock's first written story and is okay.
Even Moorcock admits it isn't great, but important in the whole milieu.
The second story is very sci-fi and really didn't grab me at all.
The fourth story is the shortest and actually could have used more space to really flesh things out.
A good read overall, but not a great read which is why I give it three stars.
When compared to other Moorcock work I found it to be a little below the average.Especially when compared to superior works such as Elric and Corum.
• Michael Moorcock is recognized as one of the forefathers of modern science fiction. This book truly illustrates why. He was the first to use terms like inter-dimensional and multiverse. On top of the originality of his terms, his stories are also excellent. Each story left me with the right amount of question while answering enough questions to both be coherent and also keep me intrigued. This book also lets you into the passions and desires that drive Moorcock’s Eternal Champion enough so tha
•	Michael Moorcock is recognized as one of the forefathers of modern science fiction. This book truly illustrates why. He was the first to use terms like inter-dimensional and multiverse. On top of the originality of his terms, his stories are also excellent. Each story left me with the right amount of question while answering enough questions to both be coherent and also keep me intrigued. This book also lets you into the passions and desires that drive Moorcock’s Eternal Champion enough so that there is really a connection with the character. I look forward to the next book.
Warning, this is total crap. The first story was written when Moorcock was 17, and it's very weak. Like Elric 'fan fiction." Weak story, weak characters. Yuck. Then a space adventure, totally disjointed and ridiculous. All action basically random, with the main character dying half way through. I couldn't make myself read the third story, but the final story deals with Tanelorn. Badly. If I had never read Moorcock before, I would never consider reading him again. This is all so bad. What a huge disappointment.
My first introduction to Michael Moorcock and I am SO ready to delve into more of his work. I actually found the straightforward story telling to be refreshing. Made my brain wrap around the worlds he was introducing better.
One of my very favorite fantasy series; it's the book that turned me on to fantasy in the first place, and I've been a fan of Moorcock's since.
This book is the first of three stories Moorcock wrote about the "John Daker" character, who is doomed to travel through time and space, inhabiting the bodies of different heroes for just long enough to resolve whatever current crisis looms.
Here are the first explanations of the concept of "multiple universes" and folding space, all wrapped up in a great narrative story with well developed characters.
I found myself very much caught up in the plot and I find the John Daker/Erekose character much more sympathetic than Elric, Moorcock's most popular hero.
The second novel changes gears completely, and is a very trippy scifi book that seems very drug inspired (and not normal drugs either, stuff like salvia, DMT, and DXM.) It was quite a page turner, and I was very surprised that the third novel picks up where the second left off, although I felt it had much better writing, and was more interesting.
The last short story only indirectly ties in with the rest of the stories, and I'm fairly sure The Eternal Champion isn't in it at all (perhaps the Red Archer was a manifestation, but I don't think so.) The short story was ok, but its the 2nd and 3rd novels in this collection that really shine, and leave me hungering for more Eternal Champion stuff.
I have always had a hard time with Moorcock and Vance as writers.
But its when moorcock goes off on his mind bending tangents that I have a hard time "Wanting" to keep with the story.
A 2 paragraph tangent on myriad chaotic forms writhing within a cloud with a brief allusion but to the main plot of the story just ends up losing me.Again, I must restate that I do like the crux of what Moorcock brings to the table.
Thus why I will take a break before I move to the second book in the Moorcock Eternal Champion series, Von Bek.
I tend to be skeptical when it comes to primary fantasy settings having elements of Sci-fi in them, because after watching a few episodes of that Shannara Chronicles stuff it just feels to me like finding a ball of hair in ones soup.
It is still soup and it is still "edible", but you'd rather not.
This however was a quite different animal, the way it was mixed here seemed almost natural, at least to someone who has played the RPG Exalted for 10-15 years.
So he decides stuff and fights.
I sort of want to rewatch Babylon 5, but once a year should be enough...
Just re-read this book for my Moorcock binge.The first novel in the volume, _The Eternal Champion_, is one of Moorcock's best.
This is the story in which Moorcock introduced the concept of the warrior fighting for destiny with multiple incarnations across time and the multiverse.
That sort of macro-perspective isn't Moorcock's strength, and this story wasn't nearly as compelling as must of his work._The third _Phoenix in Obsidian_ is very atmospheric, very moody.
Continuing the story of John Daker from _The Eternal Champion_, it reintroduces the idea of the cursed sword of the Champion.
I haven't read Michael Moorcock previously.
How that came about is a wonder as I've read Fantasy since before the Silmarillion.
Anyway I finally got around to it.
I suspect this is not a typical Moorcock - but what do I know?It started off kind of bush, a spirit called from our age to ...
But pretty soon I began to sense that there was more to this story than a hero bashing elves.
That the hero is pretty thick - and telling his story in the first person - detracts.
Kind of a bad taste in my mouth when I finished...
I liked and didn't like this book at the same time.
It is fantasy, but it is also an anti-fantasy book, the kind that must have made Moorcock known as the anti-Tolkien fantasy writer (insofar as his works try to draw away from Tolkien's vast influence).
Still it was funny, and is nevertheless the kind of novel the fantasy canon needs.
Looking forward to reading more of Moorcock and this series, though hopefully not all of his books are like this.
One must take on the big giants of our field, but still - Tolkien rocks.
Luckily, Moorcock probably does too.
Mixed feelings.On the one hand Moorcock surpasses lyrical level on several occasions. The contradictions of the main character, common feature in his novels, are the hallmark of this one.However, I missed the fluid narrative, developments, and finally, the great splurge that in other of his works grabs you like a whirlwind. The plot in "Eternal Champion" is much slower and sometimes almost stagnant.I recommend reading to understand more about Moorcocks universe, but for those who want to begin to delve into it, better read the sagas of Elric or Corum, two of his masterpieces.
My first attempt at Moorcock provided some very cool moments mixed in with some very lackluster moments. Of course, this collection of stories is taken from several different eras in Moorcock's career, so the uneven styling is to be expected.Overall, if you want to be introduced to the basics of the eternal champion premise and the multiverse concept, this is a very good volume to read, I think. But it is not the best of Moorcock's writing in terms of story and character.
I do not know why Sundered Worlds appears where it does in this collection. It should have been the first story or the last. The last story in the book, the novella, is not as good as the other material. Eternal Champion and The Phoenix in Obsidian are more than worth the price of admission. And Sundered Worlds is also fantastic, if a little out of place. It was chosen for the first volume for thematic and chronological reasons, I think.
Fantastic book, it was consistently riveting from start to finish and conveyed well its moral message. The Eternal Champion prompts us to consider who it is we side with and advocates a personal development of our own moral perspectives instead of blindly following the masses, even if they're people we've lived with our whole lives desperate times can expose the darker, perhaps realer side of ourselves. It also had cool fight scenes.
This is is great start to the epic Eternal Champion series. This book introduces readers to the key elements in the series: the Eternal Champion, the Multiverse, and the eternal city of Tanelorn. I'm excited that the stories have been updated by the author to better fit together and really enjoyed his insights shared in the new introduction to the stories. I can't wait to get into the next book.
One of the few books that has withstood the test of time for me. I read this as a teenager and have read it several times since then, and it still hooks me. Sure, it drags at some points. If you stick with it, Moorcock delivers an engaging story and memorable characters. Worth the read.
An introduction of sorts to the Eternal Champion concept that populates most of Moorcock's fiction. I could do without the second of the three books in this volume. I skipped it. I'm not ashamed to admit it. It was pretty terrible. The other two (especially the first) were so much better.
I remember this book being kind of cool, but I guess I wasn't that motivated to seek out the rest of the series. I definitely read this as a teenager though, when I was phasing out fantasy/sci-fi/horror in favor of literary fiction and non-fiction.
Something about this story struck a chord with me the first time I read it 20 or so years ago, and I return to it every few years - probably because it was the first time I had read a humans vs "others" story in which I was rooting for the destruction of the human race. Dark? Oh Mais oui!
The Eternal Champion is called to rid the world of mankind's enemy, the sorcerous Eldren. He slowly learns that it is the human race that is wretched and must be destroyed. A lovely little tale of genocide, expertly written by a precocious teenager over the course of a week decades ago. Cheers.
Great! Read these before and wanted to revisit the Eternal Champion Cycle by Michael Moorcock-one of my favorite writers!
Fantastic read. I had read the Elric books before but had never read the other Eternal Champion stories. I will be checking out the rest for sure.
One of the best ever!!
I first read this book when I was 13 and I loved it. However, going back to browse through it again left me quite disappointed. There is a lot better dark fiction for sci-fi and fantasy lovers.
