https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20299683-rat-queens-vol-1
I've been hearing about this comic for a long while, and now that I finally got a copy and read it, I can see what all the fuss is about.So... yeah. I want all of this all the time. Can we somehow make this happen?
THIS WAS SO GREAT. SUCH DIVERSITY. SUCH VIOLENCE. SUCH MAGIC.
For mature audiences only! I totally loved this novel and have placed the next 3 on my Amazon wish list. These women are cool and bad to the bone 😄Mel ❤️
The Rat Queens! I've been searching down this book from the local library. One minute they have it..then somehow it disappears, but thanks to my lovely friend Kat I got approved by Netgalley to read this. Yay Kat!This might not be the graphic novel with the most consistent story-line but you know, sometimes you just don't care.It has ass kicking women characters!! Beating the shit outta bad guys! Fun! and more Fun! and I just really liked it. So there. I received an arc copy of this book from Ne
The Rat Queens!
  I've been searching down this book from the local library. One minute they have it..then somehow it disappears, but thanks to my lovely friend Kat I got approved by Netgalley to read this. Yay Kat!This might not be the graphic novel with the most consistent story-line but you know, sometimes you just don't care.It has ass kicking women characters!!
  Beating the shit outta bad guys!
  Fun! and more Fun!
  and I just really liked it. So there.
  I received an arc copy of this book from Netgalley in exchange for an honest review.
hilarious
I was a little hesitant going into this one, but I needn't have worried because Rat Queens was exactly what I was looking for after finishing Blue Lily, Lily Blue.This graphic novel had me from the start with the name, the logo, and the concept.
I really hope we’ll get more background on her and the rest of the Rat Queens.Overall, this was an awesome, addicting graphic novel with phenomenal artwork.
I can’t wait to start the next volume!
If you're interested in buying Rat Queens, Vol. 1, just click on the image below to go through my link.
While I do not regret trying it out, I will have to, I guess, pay more attention to comic covers before I pick one up and not forget that, if there is a monster and some bad-ass killing women trying to slaughter it on the cover, it may probably be representing adequately the story of the comic in question.But I did not want to build any expectation or idea and decided to only blindly try this after seeing how the rating average was fantastically high and how the art work looked to be an interesting one – even though, like I said, it turned out to not be of my appreciation.The plot is very underdeveloped and there is more killing then anything else.
This is going to be a great series for fans of RPGs, as there are so many references to video game and D&D mechanics.
It's as if the series is winking and nodding to RPG fans.
Unfortunately, I will not be continuing this series after Volume 3 due to choices made by the creative team to welcome back the co-creator (who was arrested for domestic violence), after they had told the female artist that he would not be coming back and that she would be the artist moving forward.
So while I adore this series, and plan to read those first few volumes, I ultimately know I will not be continuing and can't really recommend it to others based on that.
so on and so forth.One of the book's biggest strengths is the variety shown here in regards to the MCs.We have: different body types (skinny, chubby, big breasts, tiny breasts, huge thighs, skinny thighs, big ass, no ass).
You think you've got one of the Rat Queens figured out and then she does something completely surprising.: Different sexual orientations: Hannah and Violet like men, Betty likes women.
;) And I love her battle cries.P.P.S. LIST OF MEN CARMEN WANTS TO HAVE SEX WITH FROM THIS BOOK:LOL Orc Dave was just melting my heart.
<3 Actually there were a lot of men I wanted to have sex with in this book.
Not my kind of feminism.In the book's second half, however, the female protagonists are further developed and become much more likable and engaging, a shift in tone that also opens up new opportunities for more subtle, character-based humor.
Some of the fantasy tropes, especially the extended fight scenes, are still not really my thing, but they are executed competently enough.What I appreciate most about the series, though, is its attempt to create a less "epic" and symbolically meaningful, more tangible, character-based, often touching and funny fantasy world.
These girls will kick the knight in shining armour's ass in less time than it takes to blink.A typical day in the life of a Rat Queen usually involves:✔ Killing anything for profit✔ Drinking lots of booze✔ Slaughtering things around✔ Cursing profusely✔ Getting arrested repeatedly✔ Destroying property✔ Going on quests✔ Trying to hook up with girls/guys/orcs/whatever✔ Getting all bloodied up✔ Being generally epicOne of the coolest things about this comic?
I LOVE it."Shut the fuck up, Gary!" Hahahahaha!A word of advice: if you like fluffy bunnies, cute kitties and rainbows, this might not be an ideal read for you.
But who would want these lovely ladies dead?
Whoever it is had better disappear, because the Queens are now out for revenge.
Bloody, bloody REVENGE...This was just a big ball of fun.
The Queens are all delightful with their own unique personalities and quirks.
The fact that they don't always get along with each other only adds to the merriment.Plus, I love it that there's a mercenary group called The Four Daves.And now the long wait for the next volume.
Instead, it makes me think "Jesus, this book is trying really hard to say 'hey, girls can be funny and strong and gross and boorish, which are traits you typically associate with male characters, so these ladies are therefore totally worth your respect, bro, because they're basically dudes with boobs!'" Which is not to say that I'm knocking the idea of violent, beer-swilling, crotch-grabbing female characters.
It feels like the book can't trust me enough to think the main female warrior character is a badass -- it has to let me know that she's capable of growing a beard if she wants.Because you know.
It's commendable that two men, one writer and one illustrator, have set aside their shallow teenage perversions to create a complex narrative with dynamic characters who run from place to place killing things and indulging in near fatal bouts of homoerotic viking hedonism. Much like Thor, but without all that “fluffy” mythology and altruism. Populating this story are naked women who only know how to joke about dicks, drinking, and getting high, which of course provides valuable life lessons, an empowering story, and admirable role models for teenage women.
Because of her size, she plays such a big role in being very sneaky for the other members of the group, but also does some insane damage.Then we have Hannah, our Elvish sorceress who is rocking a pinup aesthetic that is to die for.
The four groups are: Peaches, Four Daves, Brother Ponies, Obsidian Darkness, and, of course, Rat Queens.
After Hannah gives the girls the news about the Merchant's Guild, Betty and Dee pay them a visit, and we find out about Mr. Lake, his business, and just how sneaky Betty's hands really are.
I needed it.Awesome fact #1 : Girl power guys!I can't stress how much I enjoyed meeting this bunch of mercenaries.
you know, this girl whose best friend is her sword?
Meet Violet.
Seriously, I ship this girl like crazy.Of course there're more to know about them but where's the fun if I tell everything, huh?
Awesome fact #2 : Quests aren't never what they seem!I can't help but feel that this book can be taken of a parody of all the RPG world and wow I loved that - as Kat pointed it.
Yeah, that's French so you probably certainly don't know it.
I wasn't going to do a review but...Meet the Rat Queens.
A mercenary band for hire that puts the sexy back in wholesale slaughter.Seriously this book was awesome.
It has been a while since I've enjoyed myself this much in a comic book, but this one had me laughing out loud and reading snippets to my husband, who enjoyed it as much as I did.Read it!Unless of course you are offended by one of or all of the following:-Strong Females-Offensive Language-Obscene Gestures-Violence-Gore-Sex-Public Drunkenness-Drug Use-Worship of the god N'rygothIf so then you also may have to explain why you're following my reviews...
I've never winced seeing the art of violence of RQ comic books.If you happened at first read from in the middle of comic book, the arts and setting of this series at the first glance similar with AD&D or other medieval fantasy comic books.
It is the characterization that distinguished this series from other fantasy.If you want stories with females characters that passed The Bechdel Test, these foul-mouthed ladies will kick the test out of their universe and will only talking about men just because they want it.
These independent female mercenaries won't let anyone else telling them what to do.The format of the team seems generic in medieval fantasy plot: one warrior, one priestess, one thief, and one wizard.
As some of you, LadiSean in particular, might know; I VERY recently joined a Dungeons & Dragons adventurer's quest.
I AM LOVING IT!Rat Queens takes place in a world not all too different from my current world of Dungeons & Dragons, and as such caught my attention and my sqeetastic love right from the get go.
Where do I sign??I loved all these ladies so much!
♥As a complete noob to all of this I am still a little unsure what clan’s all these lovely ladies belong to, it didn’t stop me from enjoying all their quirky and sarcastic voices.
It's about a kickass group of girls who call themselves the Rat Queens.
They generally do nothing but get up to mischief (fighting, drinking, tripping out on magic mushrooms, the usual).
But at their core, they are true friends and just searching for the same things we all are - love, friendship, money to pay the bills, alcohol, good sex...It's got:✔ Girl power✔ Friendship✔ Family✔ Magical creatures✔ Humor✔ Realistic female body typesThe illustrations are AMAZING.
There's a lot of violence and cursing if that sort of thing bothers you, but I freaking L-O-V-E-D it.I found out about this through Kat and Shelby.
Thanks!
(Also, thank you Net Galley!!!!!!!)
And here’s the thing about Rat Queens - it’s definitely generic but it’s different because its a character driven story and Kurtis Wiebe has done a marvellous job of writing some of the most likeable and entertaining characters I’ve ever read in fantasy.
This book has a great plot but to be honest by the end I was so invested in the characters, I wouldn’t mind if Wiebe eschewed it in the next book to focus on the everyday lives of the Rat Queens - that’s how well he writes them and how enjoyable they are to read about!
So funny and loved seeing realistic female body types! These ladies are kick butt and I loved them all - jumping into Vol 2!
Equality, ftw!-Humor-Adventure, gore, and trolls!-Diversity!-It's got some pretty cute cuteness.It had some bad:-The four lead women are less women than they are partying Peter Parker, sensible Clark Kent, dwarf Hulk, and bitter Bruce Wayne (or the TMNT) only with boobs, probably-vaginas, pretty hair, and shapely bodies.-Oh, stereotypes, what would we do without you?-Lots of girl-on-girl hatredy in the name of friendship-Diversity: forced-Storyline: not so original actually.
Lots of times.I had some neutrual observations:-Color is big.
Each Rat Queen has her own color.
And the Pony Brothers wore colors that matched the Rat Queen colors.
I am crushing real hard on Violet and Hannah,to be honest.
Aggressive humor, kick-ass female friendship, ladies who don't give a shit about what others think about them, some pretty cool action scenes and awesome guys too - Sawyer and fucking Orc Dave with his bluebirds of healing.
What more do you need?
Magic?
Well,you can bet your sweet ass there's magic in here too.
Realistic body image?
You can check that one off the list as well.
Different sexual orientations?
Hell to the yes.
I loved reading this Volume and I am really looking forward to the next one.
When I got started in this medium, I made the unwise decision of picking up Saga, Volume 1 first...and well, everything else hasn't even come close since.But now there's this, and I love Rat Queens so much that I can't even write a coherent review.The characters shine in this—fleshed out, distinct, funny, charming, badass.These are the women I want to read about.Realistic body images, kicking ass all over the place, unapologetic for their sexuality and recreational drug use, and generally the women we deserve to see in stories.It's not just a gimmick though.
Rat Queens, Vol. 1: Sass & Sorcery takes place in the small town of Palisade and is a humourous tale of monster-slaying mercenary gangs, involving mostly violence and killing and drinking booze.
But suddenly a mysterious killer starts targeting the mercenary gangs of Palisade...While this was not exactly a literary masterpiece, I must say I liked it a lot.
This was an awesome break from the epic fantasy I usually read, and one of the more enjoyable comics I've read lately.
Recommended to anyone who enjoys reading fantasy and comics.
Ooooooo this was delicious and delightful.
But thankfully, NetGalley let me partake of this glory early in exchange for an honest review, which basically goes like this:Why the hell aren't you reading Rat Queens already?
You do not really have to be a roleplaying game fan to appreciate the Rat Queens, though it probably helps quite a bit to understand how the characters fit into the basic roles of a team of adventurers.
Some might find the Rat Queens over the top, believing them to be the product of a man trying too hard to write liberated females, but ending up with stereotypical male characters with boobs.
I love this world, I love these women. Me and Violet are bros. <3
My first EVER graphic novel :)
