https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/854332.The_Fellowship_of_the_Frog
Doch konnte ich mich bis zum Schluss nicht an die Handlung erinnern.
Nur winzigkleine Bruchstücke kamen mir in irgendeiner Weise bekannt vor.Da dieses Buch ja bekanntlich ein wenig älter ist, ist auch die Schreibweise ...
Aber nach den ersten 50 Seiten kam ich gut in die Handlung rein, was sich auch bis zum Schluss hielt.Der Frosch mit der Maske ist ein, wie ich finde, sehr spannender Krimi, bei dem das Mitraten qausi dazugehört und sehr viele Verwirrungen hervorruft.
It reads very much like his Black Mask pulp contemporaries, lots of action with more clubs and knives and fewer guns.
Both inspectors are also much more wholesome than their 20's fictional American counterparts were portrayed.
There's still a fair amount of corruption and violence, hard-boiled to say the least, and not a drawing room mystery for the most part.
Sort of reminds me of Hammet's Red Harvest, a fun read.
It's been said that Wallace influenced many later writers, quite possibly, I'm not a pulp expert but this was published pretty early.
Pure Wallace! Who is controlling the tramps trade union "the frogs" who is John Bennett, Sgt Elk is baffled! I did work most of it out before the end but some real surprises came up along the way. This is a good old-fashioned mystery one of Wallace's best.P.S. Did Graham Greene consciously or subconsciously take the name of Harry Lime from this book for "The third man" or was it a coincidence. For Harry Lyme appears in "the fellowship of the frog" a book that was written almost 25 years before "the third man."
Lots of humor in this one. I love Inspector Elk. He can't remember dates, so he can't pass the history portion of the exam that would allow him to be promoted. He's a terrific detective, though!
But, the rabble are basically a front to distract from the more serious crimes carried out by the leaders of the frog fellowship.
There's something shady about Ella's father, John Bennett of Horsham, and her brother seems to get into the clutches of unscrupulous people, primarily through his infatuation with Lola Bassano, who is married to a second-rate, ex pugilist, Lew Brady, but who manages to keep Ray in the dark about this.
Johnson is also a friend of Ray, who works for Maitland at the beginning of this book, and is also infatuated with Ella.

It's years since I read an Edgar Wallace novel.
When I was in my teens, a TV series called The Four Just Men popularised his books, which were mostly written in the first quarter of the twentieth century, as did the the B movies 'Edgar Wallace Mysteries' shown in cinemas in the 1960s.
This exposure of the prolific thriller writer's influenced me to devour many of his novels, which I mostly enjoyed.The Fellowship of the Frog is one that I didn't read.
I found this very entertaining, a bit sinister and with some clever twists.
Because Wallace often dashed off a novel in little more than a week, the characters are usually a bit wooden and there are few location descriptions.
One of Wallace's best. Great suspense, interesting characters.
I tried to like this book, but it just doesn't hold my attention. Got about half way through and quit.
grave, questioning eyes, deeper thangrey, yet greyer than blue"Raymond Bennett - brother of Ella, son of John Bennett "very ambitious and dreams in millions" but is just a clerk at Maitlands Consolidated John Bennett - a strong, mysteriously employed "sour-looking gentleman of middle age," who is "Tall, loose-framed, grey and gaunt of face...[with] deep-set eyes" who also "is a naturalist photographer.
a tall, good-looking Swede who spoke without any trace of a foreign accent."Mills - "the man we caught at Wandsworth" trying to get to a Frog prisonerDetective Sergeant Fayre - "a promising young man, in whom Elk placed considerable trust"
