https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/761787.Pale_Gray_for_Guilt
Before he knows it, his loans are coming due; his business has dried up and his dream has turned to crap.
Because just when things are coming up roses, you slap yourself upside the head and say, "OMG; I really hope that damned marina guy wasn't one of Travis McGee's best friends!"Sadly for you (and for a lot of your pals), it turns out that he was and you are about to find yourself in a huge stinking pile of steaming stuff.
As readers of the series know, McGee is a "salvage" expert who recovers things that have been taken from people who are left with no legal recourse.
An angry McGee decides to get revenge by swindling the developers with a complicated stock scheme, and this will also allow him to get a nest egg for Tush’s family in the process.I’ve written before about the good, the bad and the ugly of the Travis McGee series in other reviews like One Fearful Yellow Eye, and this one is a pretty typical example of the series.
As always after checking out one of these books, I’m left liking the plot and the McGee character, but am left shaking my head in amazement at the way the females are written.
Gray...this is the real Gray, not that stupid book about shades.
How many ways can I say I love, love, love Travis McGee. He's tough.
When I read a TM book, it reminds me of the first time I read him and how astonished I was with the storyline, the character and the setting, Bahia Mar, Slip F-18, the site of the Busted Flush.
I want to get real mauldin right now about Travis.
Been overdue for my Travis McGee fix.
I want to pick up the next in the series now, this being #9 and my third time reading.
Reed’s portrayal of backwoods tough guy Bama McCall fits in with some of the slick action MacDonald describes.Like all of the Travis McGee books, this one the ninth in the series, the title includes a color (for product recognition and book sales).
This one, describing a revenge and some woman troubles (McGee???) stands above the rest as a truly great book.
MacDonald has always got it in him to create a book better than an intelligent adventure novel and here he does.
MacDonald, Pale Gray for GuiltA good solid Travis McGee romp.
MacDonald's novels, like his titles, don't stray from his themes very far.
But like a seafood restaurant you know well, and go to for its quality and execution, the Travis McGee novels are well-executed variations on the same themes: revenge, woman-in-peril, etc.
McGee is challenged in this novel because he is doing his job, but for a friend.
As he says, "Strangers make the best clients.
I'm too angry, too sick at heart."This isn't his best.
If you aren't a hardcore John MacDonald fan, I'd skip this one.
D. MacDonald (not to be confused with mystery writers Ross MacDonald and Philip Macdonald) because of the eye-poppingly sexist crap on his jacket blurbs, wherein naked women and dead people appear to be the only folks populating his world.But this jacket blurb wasn't like that, so I read it.Holy crap, do I love John D.
MacDonald!You know what kind of women populate his novels?
(McGee tears what up as he walks back to Meyer?)But this book is structured fabulously and written great, capturing a textured, thoughtful view on MacDonald's own time and place.
Tush Bannon, an old football buddy of Travis McGee, has been murdered and made to look like a suicide.
Indeed, the man had been in financial difficulty as he tried to put together a nice marina/motel on the coast of the Florida Straits, but he just isn’t the type to take his own life, especially considering a lovely wife and a couple of kids left behind.
McGee soon discovers that the marina/motel property happened to be the last hold-out in a large real estate deal and the fact that Tush wouldn’t sell was likely the real reason behind his murder.
Excellent plot and characters, one of the better McGee books.
But us guys just love the way Travis CHOMPS on the Bad Guys.
And I almost gave up on GOLD WATCH (glad I didn’t; it’s Sweet!)PALE GRAY is a tale of revenge, Southern style.“What are you?” she asked.I stood up and put my hands on her upper arms, near the shoulders and plucked her up off the sawhorse and held her.
Maybe he didn’t listen very good, or catch on soon enough.
Gray and pale, oily and guilty as hell, and some eyes shifting around looking for some way out of it.
It's a salty tale, as most Travis McGee novels are; jaded souls wading in to make right of a bad situation, given meager means and fleeting opportunities.
McGee manages well, and if you like jaded antiheroes, McGee's your man.This time, he takes up for an old friend who's met with a mysterious and unjust fate, one of those fates that might just as easily pass as a tragic story local Florida neighbors remind themselves of, and sadly shake their heads.This is set in (mostly) pre-developed coastal Florida, just as development greed is setting in, throughout real-life Florida.
This one started out extremely slowly, but ended as the strongest yet. It is the first in which Meyer plays an active role. Travis and Meyer undertake a major long con to settle a score and thus the plot is more entertaining and complex than is usual. The poetic descriptions of human nature and Florida in the sixties are firmly in place and make the reader feel at home in a McGee novel.2018: This is the one that gives Meyer's first name! Ludwig!
I really wanted to love this as much as I love the color gray, but it was truly on the boring side. So many details about real estate, so very long before there was real action (this is not atypical of this series). John D. MacDonald may be my favorite writer, but his Travis McGee books sometimes seem like a lot of filler. Depends. A few of them are amazing.
***.Travis McGee is in the salvage business.
Sometimes his business dealings are not so simple, like in this adventure.
McGee meets with an old friend from years back.
Soon McGee’s friend finds himself at the mercy of the consortium’s political clout, and his place is foreclosed upon.
When McGee goes out to see what he can do, he finds that his old friend has – supposedly – committed suicide.
This episode from the adventures of Travis McGee starts off fairly complicated, but works its way up to a satisfying thriller for MacDonald fans.
Wherever Travis McGee lands there are a bunch of bad ass people available and willing to help him.
Some of the financial fraud committed by McGee and his economist friend Meyer to get even with the bad guys are preposterous (like when McGee walks into one of the villain's offices and pitches an equity investment idea and they actually accept it!).
A private investigator (salvage consultant!) who lives on a boat and likes to have a good time (Cold beer, good music and a place to go!) even as he helps wounded people settle their scores is too good a premise to cast aside after one average novel.
Travis McGee, dashing beach bum and salvage expert, helps out the widow of murdered friend. His attitudes toward women are a bit creaky, he's fond of overexplaining his world philosophy, and this time I out couldn't follow all the financial workings to his con job. But I still enjoy reading his capers from time to time, as I did with this title.
BOOK FOUR - Mid-2oth Century American Crime ReadathonHere, I move from a 1962 work by Ross MacDonald to this 1968 novel by the more famous MacDonald and his Travis McGee series.
But basically, the owners of massive amounts of land want ten acres from a man who refuses to sell, definitely not an original plot line.Place=3: The Atlantic Ocean plus many rivers and canals of Florida play a part here, and it's interesting to read about which boats can or can't visit which canal or marina.
And here in Florida, there is water everywhere and I'd never thought about how a person might have several boats to access various water locations.Characters=3: McGee is in love!
ok, sometimes these books are a little hard to review.
You need to keep in mind they were written in the 60s, and some of the outlooks regarding women are considered a little pre-historic by todays standards.
But if you truly read the whole book, you will also see how dang STRONG these women are!
Seriously, a guy in a two-way, respectful tryst isn't taking advantage of anyone, no matter how convenient or short it may be.This time Travis's love interest is named Puss.
Travis conveniently knew a few too random people who were tailor made to get him out of whatever hole he was currently in.
I love Trav but all the high finance was a little dull for me. So sorry he lost his lady early but it was a great read
You have to love John D. MacDonald. Every time I think that I have him figured out, he throws me a curve ball. As always, a good read that keeps you guessing.
Great on the ins and outs of Florida land deals, even better on stock market scams. Meyer comes into his own in this oldie-but-goody.
Unfortunately for the bad guys, Tush Bannon is a dear and longtime friend of Travis McGee.The ninth novel in this iconic series sees McGee, with invaluable assistance from best friend Meyer, set up a sting operation to bankrupt the two main villains.
The nephew of one of them turns out to be the actual murderer and he gets turned into shark-food in the penultimate chapter.As with other novels in the series, McGee frequently rails against the corporate corruption and environmental damage which is slowly destroying the Sunshine State.
Very prescient for a novel published in 1968.
Travis McGee, if you are unfamiliar with his world, lives on a houseboat, The Busted Flush, in the Bahai Marina in Florida.
It is an endless string of parties in a world unlike that of the 9 to 5 Joe. McGee doesn't necessarily work in the general sense, but does collect salvage for people who have been wronged and for who the laws and the system will never make whole.
While McGee can't bring his friend back from the dead, he can make this animal bleed and so, with the help of Meyer and a tall redhead, he sets up an elaborate sting.
I found this 9th entry in the Travis McGee series to be above average -- it had the social commentary that I like so much without the sometimes disturbing 1960s view of women & sex.
But some of the earlier books in the series had a bit too much of a masculine 50s/60s attitude about women which bothered me and I found that happily missing in this one.As I have mentioned in some of my other reviews of the McGee books, Travis McGee is clearly the forerunner of the TV show Leverage; his job is to help out the guy who has been 'done wrong' by the rich & powerful.

In his way, MacDonald was an environmentalist as much as he was a champion for the little guy, which is great, but the pacing here was slow for me.
Tush Bannon is an old friend and former football teammate of Trav's who's trying to make a go of it with a little motel and marina.
This won't stand for McGee, who teams up with Meyer to concoct an elaborate real estate and stock swindle to avenge Tush and help his widow and two kids.
MacDonald goes into great detail on the specifics, and this part of the book gets tedious.
Travis McGee is salvage expert.
Travis is a finder, a recovery expert, for hire.
If someone has been swindled or cheated out of money or objects and all conventional means of recovery have been unsuccessful, or legal means are unavailable or unacceptable, Travis steps in and takes 50% of what he recovers in payment.
But in this book Travis isn't hired, this is personal.
When his friend is found dead of a very suspicious "suicide", Travis and his economist friend Meyer concoct an elaborate sting to financially ruin the men responsible for his friend's murder.
But, Travis is slick and convincing as a con man.
You don't want to be the person who crosses one of Travis McGee's friends. Worse yet, you don't want to be the person who kills one of Travis McGee's friends. McGee may take his lumps, but you will forever regret what you did, because McGee will make you pay heavily for it.
MacDonald's Travis McGee series are all classics of the mystery genre. I read all of this series decades ago, but I may have to reread them for the sheer joy and entertainment.
And the whole long bar is slowly moving down that river of time, washing away at the upstream end and building up downstream.
Always there is more room where you stand, but always the swift water grows deeper, and you feel the shift of the sand and the gravel under your feet as the river wears it away.
There are sounds in the rocky gorge, the roar of the water, the shifting, gritty sound of sand and gravel underfood, the forlorn cries of despair as the nearby ones, and the ones upstream, are taken by the current.
Some old ones who stand on a good place, wel braced, understanding currents and balance last a long time.
MacDonald’s Harvard MBA is showing in this 9th adventure featuring iconoclast boat bum Travis McGee, which involves a “salvage” job requiring stock manipulation, real estate fraud and other financial malfeasance.An old football buddy of McGee’s, a giant sweetie and family man named Tush Bannon, is “smashed flat, plucked clean” (p241) by a Florida cabal of small-town Chamber of Commerce types.
Avenging what a bad guy ill-advisedly calls a “dreary little smalltime buddy” (p297) requires that McGee get a close look at “some nice gray skin … pale, oily and guilty” (p50).In PALE GRAY FOR GUILT, Trav now has his own signature drink, “the McGee” (check out the mixologist’s recipe on p25) and a jazzy little speedboat to tow behind his “Busted Flush” houseboat.
