https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1258005.Bowser_the_Hound
That was a good book. It teaches many morals in a simple way to children. But the book is not that simple. It has many twist.
The story is actually not that only focused on Bowser, but it is centered around mainly 3 characters: Bowser himself, Blacky the Crow, & Reddy Fox. The story begins when Bowser had been chasing Old Man coyote until the latter tricked him and lured him far far away from his home.
Bowser the Hound, what I would expect as a reader from the story that the protagonist will be recognisably developed, but the character Bowser the dog seems as a minor fixed one from the beginning until the resolution.
We've been going back and reading some of the Burgess books we missed. We enjoyed it. We just read Old Man Coyote so all the characters in this one were ones we knew. This is the only Burgess book I've read that feels like it has a real ending with all is well for all (even Reddy Fox) so that was nice.
Another great book, but not all that much about Bowser the Hound. My 4 and 5 year old boys loved it as a read aloud!
As a young child, I would lose myself for hours in the simple world of the wood and pond inhabited by Little Joe Otter, Buster Bear, Grandfather Frog, and terrorized by Farmer Brown's Boy. I can remember the very shelf, even the exact spot in the little library in Felton, CA where these books were kept.
I do not recall if Old Man Coyote plays a role in Danny Field Mouse's story or the other way around, but this concept was presented several times.
I liked it. It's about how old man coyote leads Bowser the Hound out of the way and he's lost and it's about how he gets back.
Cute kids book. A parable or I guess more of a fable, life lessons.
I liked it. Bowser the Hound chases Old Man Coyote and he gets lost and it's how he gets back.
Cute kids book about a dog named Bowser, and his adventures as he gets lost and then found again. The chapters are very short and each one begins with a moral.
