https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/148639.Waterland
It's a semi-Postmodern text examining the difficulty of writing Realism in a Postmodern era, but it goes off on romantic (not Romantic) tangents about natural history and cultural history and all, in a very Julian Barnes (A History of the World in 10 1/2 Chapters) way.
But again, that's very Barnes.There is a beautiful passage, though, which I'll include here:Once upon a time people believed in the end of the world.
Look in the old books: see how many times and on how many pretexts the end of the world has been prophesied and foreseen, calculated and imagined.
Description from Wiki: The film follows the story of an anguished English-born Pittsburgh high school teacher (Irons) in 1974 going through a reassessment of his life.
The film portrays the history teacher's narrative in the form of flashbacks to tell the story of a teenage boy and his mentally challenged older brother living in The Fens of England with their widowed father.
The teacher explains to his class how he and his wife had a teenage romance which led to a disastrous abortion that left her infertile.
A side-theme is the teacher's grandfather, who was a successful brewer and who fathered with his daughter the narrator's older brother.
A lot of my favorite books, some of which I enjoyed even more than this one, have some combination of good plots, good themes, or good characters, but the quality of the writing leaves something to be desired.
The premise of a history teacher who is about to involuntarily retire due to the principal's decision to eliminate the history program makes it plausible that the narration is the main character's last lectures to his class.
As a result, the stories of his life jump around rather than happening chronologically.
In short, I recommend this book to anyone who is craving writing as art.
Like the countryside in which it is set, I recall this book as being grey, depressing, and sodden. I can't recall a thing that I learned from it - all I remember is the enormous sense of relief I had once I managed to finish it.Though, as the blurb helpfully point out, there are eels and incest.
I only regret reading Waterland in Lithuanian instead of its original language, and I will not know until I pick up the next book by Swift if my four stars should be attributed to my not fully identifying with the author’s voice or the translator’s.Waterland is a story about storytelling, a narrative about narration that analyses the meaning and the necessity of history.
The Fens, where the biggest part of the story is based, serve Swift as the main metaphor of this cyclicality.
Do we all live in the fens of history, I dare to ask?
Murder, incest, guilt, insanity, ale and eels.
Hard to imagine not loving a book with themes like that eh?
Or is it?Waterland: Picador Classic is undeniably an impressive and ambitious novel which ruminates upon history's relentless tide of change and humanity’s subsequent shifting fortunes.
The left side of my brain admired the novel’s ambition and scope.
The right side of my brain remained detached and I was unable to stay immersed.
So, whilst clever, ambitious and diverse, it was a book I admired more than enjoyed.
3/5Waterland: Picador Classic (1983) by Graham Swift
What is it about Swift's writing that I find so haunting?
It might be his concise sentence structure, or it might be his ability to, at the end of the story, connect all the small moments and rush them toward the reader in a fast, breathtaking wave until finally leaving a brisk declaration of The Point of Everything in the wake, like a broken shell on shore.
If you find yourself at the end sitting on a beach, skin saturated in emotion, mind stunned by the force of Swift's writing, and holding a husk of this book, then we'll know it's the latter.
I don't know, you guys.
G. Swift, you keep throwing books over the Atlantic and I'll keep catching them with open arms.
Or wait, maybe this would rouse your interest; a girl of fifteen getting pregnant in the hapless curiosity and discoveries of the body and then never being able to deliver a child and feeling the need to steal one at an age above 50; “God told me”, she said.History doesn't always need to be about kings and queens, wars and revolutions, countries and soldiers, little Tom Crick and his childhood sweetheart Mary Metcalf had created history too, by doing a little and by letting a lot been done.
UPDATE:I thought I'd revisit this one, as I do often for books I rate 5 stars.
It's still VERY good, but for me, 2 years have passed and I can't sing praises as loudly as before.
Maybe it's just me, maybe it's the 2 years, maybe at the time I read it there had been an issue (emotional?, physical?) this book addressed.
Besides, our Earth has changed in so much, I understand more about some things, and I'm convinced (via a number of science books I read in 2017) I understand very little about most things.
"Waterland" is easily the best novel I've read so far this year.
Yes, there's eels.
Yes, there's incest.
But more importantly, there's a subtle flow of history, back and forth across the pages from the French Revolution to the nuclear days of WWII.
Lessons learned from the trials and tribulations of the Crick family can easily be applied to the great events of world history, and history itself is shown to be an irresistible constant of useless baggage wrapped around dire foretelling.
Not to get THE answer, but SOME answer, delving deep and retrieving something serviceable, something that will reason out the unfortunate events and say, "Here.
And perhaps add you to the chain of consequences propagated from this history.
I really loved this the first two or three times I read it--I even saw the movie adaptation with Jeremy Irons, which wasn't very good. But then I reread it 15 years later, and thought it was insufferably pretentious.John Irving read it too--I am convinced he ripped off elements of this book for "A Prayer for Owen Meany," which was based mostly on "The Scarlet Letter" and is a piece of shit.
If you struggled to get to the end of that sentence then Waterland may not be for you, as it’s basically hundreds and hundreds of pages of that sort of thing interspersed with a bit of incestuous shagging between the idiot offspring of farmers and lock keepers.
Unfortunately I was bored stiff after 100 pages, which I attribute in part to the contrived way in which the author introduces his meditations on historical theory and methodology (an elderly history teacher responding to a claim by a precocious student that learning history is pointless, which ties into a sub-plot around the teacher’s wife going mad and trying to abduct one of the kids).
This is the story of Tom Crick, a history teacher, who tries to find the real meaning of life.The movie based on this book  Waterland (1992) is so good as the book.Stars: Jeremy Irons, Sinéad Cusack, Ethan Hawke among others
Excellent and atmospheric novel – conjuring up a strong sense of time and place (both the Fens with its waterways, mud and eels – such that the Fens becomes one of the characters in the story) and the late cold war feeling of an end to progress and a possibility of Armageddon which informs the attitude of the children (especially their spokesperson Price) to history.
The Tide of HistoryGraham Swift won the Booker Prize in 1996 for Last Orders, the story of a group of East-End Londoners on a trip to dispose of a dead friend's ashes, and looking back at the mingled histories of their relationships going back decades.
Tom's official subject is the French Revolution, but he spends more time on the story of his family and the history and geography of his birthplace, the fens of East Anglia.
It is here that Tom's preoccupation with history and Swift's feeling for the fenland come full circle.
No one ever said it was real.
And no one ever said it would last for ever."When I add a book to my 'pessimism' shelf, after having finished it, I probably enjoyed it.
It's also probably the most parenthetical book I've ever read, with lots of little asides and notes included between parentheses on nearly every page.
Well, a lot of things.
I once read (or heard) that the central appeal of any novel is the association of disparate ideas, the author's ability to link things together in unexpected and interesting ways.
It's basically a family history spanning more than two centuries with its quirky characters, its tragedies, past glories, some sex, incest, suicide, murder, alcoholic intoxication and the usual stuff one finds when one digs up ancestral past to turn it into a novel which people will read with their mouths open in shock or surprise.I do not find it difficult to relate to this novel because the narrator, like a true professor, love to occasionally segue into interesting topics perhaps to demonstrate his expansive knowledge about things (or, to be more precise, the impressive research done by the author--the narrator in real life).
C1983: This book won the Guardian fiction Prize and was shortlisted for the Booker Prize.
) so sadly it wasn’t all that shocking or perhaps the way the story slowly meandered towards the revelation helped to ameliorate the shock.
It is a brooding story set in a brooding landscape and whilst there were some clever asides, I did not find much humour to lighten the load, so to speak.
This is definitely a book that shows how the sins of one’s forefathers can impact on the present day/situation.
I think this is a novel I'll continue to think about. At first I wasn't sure about the digressions into history, and eels and waterways, but then I came to see how cleverly they were part of the story afterall.
Waterland may be the most intelligent book I have ever read. It is a mystery, a novel, a history or eeling and beer making on the fens and a romance. Graham swift is one of the best writers in English and this books is just way better than his other excellent stuff.
"Waterland" is a book I think I will quickly forget.
The place is perhaps what will stay with me the most.
We travel through generations of the Atkinson family history, following their rise to prominence, their greatest successes (in the brewing industry), followed by strange supernatural happenings which lead to the inevitable family decline, a notable incestuous entanglement and finally a murder and somewhat disgraceful modern circumstance.
I think I was generally bored by the narrative voice.
The narrative commentary on the declining relevance of history in our lives was too heavy-handed for my taste.
Where do we draw the line between history and stories?
A personal history, the story or one's family, the study of what brought you to your present state and situation - history?
A search for answers will always lead backwards, and sometimes what you find is not pleasant; perhaps at times not knowing is best.Gothic family drama flutters back in forth through the life of history teacher protagonist, Tom Crick, and back through the history of his family and the flat Fens countryside that they called home.
This is not only a Gothic drama, but also compelling for it's well crafted mysteries.
If I could only have five books with me on a desert island, this would be one of them.
It's got everything--madness, arson, alemaking, incest, the claiming of land by technology and its reclamation by the sea, and the French Revolution.
Plus a lyrical, fairytale-like tone.
No other book I've read explores the relationship between geography and the history of a people better than this one.
What more could you want?
Swift was shortlisted for the Booker Prize for this novel and won it for Last Orders, but IMO he should have won it for Waterland instead.
It's a much better book.
An incredible story, writen in a peculiar way. There are several plots in different timings going ahead together and the narrator changes quite often from a first to a third person in an area which is partly real and partly fictional as a teacher, whose career has come to an end for a certain cirumstance, makes the transition from teaching “history” to telling “story” which he believes is supposed to save us. Since stories aren’t blemished as history is: incomplete knowledge of actions themselves undertaken with incomplete knowledge.Definitely recommended!https://kommunia.wordpress.com/2018/0...
Kitabı okumakta zorlandım fakat süprizlerle dolu olaylar içerdiğini söyleyebilirim. Sanki yazar Roman yazmayı değil de bazı hikayeleri birleştirmeye çalışmışı düşündürdü bana. Herşey rağmen okunası bir kitap. Sıra dışı anlatım ve olay örgüsü , en doğru tanım olurdu bence.
Tom's final lecture proves to be the most important, most relevant, and most heartwarming and personal, even though it came from a history teacher who pales in extreme comparison to monumental world events.
To end it off, here is one passage that I really enjoyed:"Once upon a time people believed in the end of the world.
For a little while – it didn’t start so long ago, only a few generations ago – the world went through its revolutionary, progressive phase; and the world believed it would never end, it would go on getting better.
There are times (they come around really quite often) when good dry textbook history takes a plunge into the old swamps of myth and has to be retrieved with empirical fishing lines.
History, if it is to keep on constructing its road into the future, must do so on solid ground.
And above, all let us not tell stories.
Let us get back to solid ground ...The narrator of this book is a history teacher.
As the book progressed, however, a definite sense of unease builds.
I cannot imagine how that scene could be done with justice to the book.I want to read more of a lot of authors.
I want to read more Graham Swift.
Graham Swift's "Waterland" blends the innovative use of language of James Joyce; the multilayered, obsessive attention to detail of Herman Melville; the philosophical underpinnings of Dostoevsky; the epic historical sweep of Salman Rushdie and Tolstoy; the engrossing arc of a family's rise and fall of Faulkner; the page-turning, intricately plotted suspense of Stephen King; all tied up neatly in what amounts to a history teacher's meandering digression from the syllabus.That's a lot of name-dropping, I know, and it sounds like a recipe for disaster.
And Swift is a master storyteller in the tradition of Dickens, to drop another name.I tend to favor contemporary fiction that takes place in contemporary times, and I rarely if ever rate a book with five stars.
So he decides to abandon the syllabus and instead tell his class about his and his family's history on the Fens rather than about the French Revolution thats he supposed to be teaching,Without wanting to sound jingoistic I believe that,certainly in the latter years of their education, that children, wherever they are in the world, should be taught about their own countries History rather than that of some place that they might never visit thus giving them a background to their own lives.
For me though there was far, far, too much meandering, sleepy, irrelevant setting and barely any actual plot whatsoever.I've read authors/books of this ilk before - modern British literature with a personal mystery surrounding a tragedy, all teased out over the course of several hundred pages.
This worked so hard at detailing the place, time and preceding two hundred years worth of happening, the actual tale of a East Anglia childhood and a modern career and marriage affected by tragedy was pretty much smothered.
