https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/837278.Augustus_Carp_Esq_By_Himself_Being_the_Autobiography_of_a_Really_Good_Man
Carp is a totally obnoxious, arrogant, self-righeous prig who has purportedly written his own memoir; I squirmed with embarassment at his total lack of self knowledge and laughed out loud at his failure to grasp people's reactions to his holding forth.
Marvelously named characters litter the pages and his purple prose demands to be read out loud in the most pretentiously pompous voice you can muster.
His description of his slipping on a mat and falling on his backside doesn't sound like the stuff of genius comic writing, i promise you it is.
The rating system for goodreads makes it more difficult to award 5 stars, as not every book that you enjoy is "amazing".
I had no hesitation in ranking this book as 5 star, however, as it is absolutely brilliant!
Very, very funny and while it is much less well known than Three Men in a Boat or The Diary of a Nobody, it is as good (if not better) than either of these.
The wonderfully pompous hypocrisy of Augustus is beautifully written and the characters that surround him are equally eccentric and grotesque.
One of the most enjoyable books I have ever read.
A comic masterpiece which deserves to be much better known. The title character is a monster of self-unawareness and pomposity, but a hilarious one; the type of book that you shouldn't read while in company, because you'll alternately be laughing out loud and trying to read great chunks of it to anyone who's nearby.
I don't know how I failed to discover this comic masterpiece until now, but a pleasure all the greater for being deferred, I suppose. The only sobering aspect is that Carps still walk among us, almost century later.
He then tells of his birth, his dignified father (pompous & insufferable), his mother (who is only mentioned when she is in servitude to him or his father), and others who seem to all have character flaws as a reason they do not get along with Carp.
One must read between the lines to enjoy this as Carp unwittingly reveals to us his own lack of character.I enjoyed this very much, although I felt that the humor probably runs even deeper than I realize, as it was written in early 20th century Great Britain, and some of the references are lost on me, I'm afraid, nearly 100 years later on the other side of the pond, as they say.
This book is hilarious and brilliantly sustained throughout. It's impossible to quote from it, though the Goodreads extract given as the description of the contents will give the flavour. Get hold of a copy and read it as soon as possible.
3.5*While I could appreciate the humor of this satire of the pompous & self-righteous Carp men, this novel never made me laugh out loud though I did smile often. I'm glad that I read it but still prefer Jerome K. Jerome or P.G. Wodehouse.
Free download here -- http://manybooks.net/titles/bashfordh...25 JUL 2014 - Friday is "clean-the-house" night.
So, I have downloaded this one and will enjoy reading Augustus' story tomorrow.
As I have already recorded, she was a woman of repulsively over-developed physique, and she now began to shake my father so violently that his upper denture fell to the ground.Can you just picture this man being shaken by the charwoman so violently that his false teeth fall out of his mouth?!
Ah, Augustus!
Silly man!
But, truth be told -- we all know an Augustus in our own circle of friends.
I know I do!
A classic annihilation of English society in the late 19th century and still relevant today.
Full of one-liners, never to be forgotten, wonderful names, fantastic illustrations, it conjures up a world of prigs living in a world they feel they understand, but never will.
I started this book in 1985, and felt sated with the first few pages - I went on to recommend it to several friends and bought them copies - but to my shame this is the first time I have read it from cover to cover, and it is much better than I had first realised.
From being the victim of a despiciable Portugalade poisoning, to having his burgeoning career in Xtian commerce so unjustly cut short, Mr Carp's many unfortunate set-backs serve only to strengthen the reader's own sense of indignation against the injustices of this earthly realm.Surely then, in these days, when the sordid flicker of the cinematograph lures courser-fibred souls from the higher pleasures of the Athanasian Creed - and indeed of edifying volumes such as this one - nothing is more urgently required, at every level of society, than the noble example set before us in his own words by such an exemplar of moral fortitude as Augustus Carp, Esq.*Providence
He is a glutton, a hypocrite and a coward who blackmails and bullies his way through life..always convinced he is a true Christian (or Xtian, as he spells it).
When he convinces her to accompany him to a prayer meeting, and after copious amounts of Portugalade, his carefully constructed moral authority comes crashing around his ears.
And the reader roots for the revenge of Augustus Carp's victims, including his downtrodden mother.
Augustus Carp describes himself and his equally loathsome father as shining examples of moral rectitude, but the reader is not deceived : these are prime examples of self-regard and hypocrisy, often with hilarious consequences.
I first came across Augustus Carp in the late 70s when Kenneth Williams read it on the radio – wonder if there’s a recording of that anywhere?
It’s in one of my favourite sub-genres, the satirical bogus autobiography (see also Gentlemen Prefer Blondes, Little Me and my own stab at it, I Must Confess).
It’s largely set in south London, which is always a bonus.
Many of the lines in Augustus Carp are in daily use in our house (‘In the full flower of his Metropolitan Xtian manhood’) and I laugh like a drain every time I open the book.

For those who are curious about learning "the theory of mind", this book is a challenge.
You must look at the world through the eyes and minds and self-image of an exceptionally nasty piece of humanity: a god-fearing, law-abiding, litigious, humorless, pontificating self-righteous “good man” who made his life’s work of lecturing others and torturing them at any given chance to “punish the sinful”.
The story started slowly from his birth till his youth.
Then the story picked up speed till it almost went for a full-frontal crash.
One must try to see the world from their eyes since we can never be rid of his kind.
This is such a delightfully funny gem of a book, very British in its satire and irony, and very much in the tradition of British comic writing, with its priggish, pompous and self-satisfied narrator, Augustus Carp himself, who is firmly convinced of his own self-righteousness, but who in reality is an insufferable hypocrite and bore. First published anonymously in 1924, and later discovered to be the work of a doctor, Sir Henry Howarth Bashford, honorary Physician to George VI, it’s a book that truly deserves to be better known.
This book is delightfully horrid. My husband and I read it aloud to each other, and could only handle one or two chapters at a time before we needed a break. The main character is dreadfully odious, and yet you can't help but read a little farther to discover that he really can get worse. I don't think I'll ever read this book again, but it has certainly been an experience I'll never forget.
Thus when his (equally pompous) father gets into an argument with their charwoman after dealing her son a blow ("dividing the integument of his forehead"), Augustus describes the woman's actions:"I beheld Mrs O'Flaherty thrusting my father's head into her pail.
Mother is a poor cowed creature, her life spent serving her husband and son:"After every such exhibition of pristine vigour, however, my father experienced an acute reaction, and for many weeks would become a martyr not only to neurasthenic indigestion but to digestive neurasthenia accompanied by flatulence of the severest order.
Wonderfully dead-pan humour utilised to asset-strip the bloated pomposity that is Augustus Carp, Esq. down to his nether integuments!
What is revealed is a man of small parts but great pretensions, & the reader is privy to even his daily ablutions as if they were sacred rituals of a demi-god!
This comic novel pins the 'really good man' like a monstrous moth to a board, an exhibit on a museum wall...a evolutionary cul-de-sac...written-up, as if in the annals of an entymologist's compendium of bizarre insects that once flourished over London's social dung-heaps!
But how can we be so sure that modern Augustus Carps don't still circle our high-minded north-eastern suburbs like plagues of locusts?!
An utterly brilliant satire originally released anonymously to give it a not-so-subtle hint of irony. The novel details the coming-of-age of the pitifully pretentious twerp that is Augustus Carp Esq., the singular offspring of an equally contemptible member of the lower English aristocracy. I highly recommend owning a copy, but free text is available for you internet gluttons at http://www.ibiblio.org/eldritch/carp/
Top 6 literary characters I want to slap:6. Henry Waugh (The Universal Baseball Association, Inc., J. Henry Waugh, Prop.)5. Bellwether (Dimension of Miracles)4. Mr. Collins (Pride and Prejudice)3. Wade Watts (Ready Player One)2. Augustus Carp, Sr.1. Augustus Carp, Jr.
This is a weird little absolutely hilarious book. Totally recommend!
Thus when his (equally pompous) father gets into an argument with their charwoman after dealing her son a blow ("dividing the integument of his forehead"), Augustus describes the woman's actions:"I beheld Mrs O'Flaherty thrusting my father's head into her pail.
Mother is a poor cowed creature, her life spent serving her husband and son:"After every such exhibition of pristine vigour, however, my father experienced an acute reaction, and for many weeks would become a martyr not only to neurasthenic indigestion but to digestive neurasthenia accompanied by flatulence of the severest order.
Written less than a hundred years ago, I thought of both 'Diary of a Nobody' and 'A Confederacy of Dunces' while reading it, and thoroughly enjoyed the life story of a rather unlikeable, snooty man portrayed.From childhood to manhood, Augustus Carp is grovelling, self-satisfied and someone you wouldn't really want to spend any time with at all.
I liked the sketches included as well, by a woman no less, who was thought to be a man, included in a book whose author himself was unknown.
There's an odd phenomenon that happens with some books: there you are, quite happily reading your way through when all of a sudden you realise that you've had enough and just want to give up.
That's what happened with Augustus Carp, 'the funniest unknown book in the world' according to the quote on the front cover.
First published anonymously in 1924, It is a funny book in a very English way.
Augustus and his father are appalling creations: self-righteous, priggish to a monstrous degree and criminally manipulative, while all the time espousing a holier-than-though evangelical Protestantism, and the book absolutely skewers them.
Absolutely HilariousIf you enjoyed Three Men in a Boat , any P.G. Wodehouse, My Life and Hard Times, or The Diary of a Nobody, you will love this book. It's terrifically funny; satire done right. Short note that the Kindle edition I read did not include the illustrations, so I do feel like I missed out there.
I thought I'd be reading a classic bit of satire, a fake autobiography that really took the late-Victorian middle-class to task.
I suppose that was what I got in Augustus Carp, but what the book really expertly skewered was the breed of pompous, litigious, self-important, self-righteous ass which afflicts us all to this day.Get a volume which has the original pictures, you'll be doing yourself a favor.
The only downside is that it might be too obscure to have a really good conversation with someone about it today.
A lovely sustained chuckle of a novel that skewers both the form and content of the gentlemen's memoir from a certain time. Mr. Carp, Esq., and father, are gems of comic creation and both deserve a swift kick up the butt. I would caution that, to me, this is a real love it/hate it experience so if you're not in by, say, the 4th chapter, there's no shame in moving on. If you're in, however, it's a very satisfying time!I received an ecopy from the publishers and NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.
I can think of so many people (politicians, mostly), who could have written this :).. This is a hilarious 'memoir' of a completely clueless and stuffed up guy called Augustus Carp who is unremarkable in every way you can think of. But he doesn't think so and assumes (correctly) that thousands of people will read his 'memoir' and will benefit from it. Laughter is the best medicine, so yeah, the reader does benefit from reading this book. I loved the way the mother's story arc ended more than anything else!
There is a free, illustrated version on line, if anyone is interested:http://www.ibiblio.org/eldritch/carp/This was a very amusing read, a perfect snob and holier-than-thou Englishman who really thinks he is better than anyone and more holy than anyone, and who judges everyone else mercilessly. The unrelenting humor comes from his never having a clue how boorish,mysoginist, sanctimonious or funny he is. The ending, which is a delight, made my day. Written in the 1920s under a pseudonym, the book skewers just about all things needing skewering.
Times have changed, but I still know people like this. I enjoyed this book because it was funny, quick to read in spite of the many unfamiliar words, and because I really love a pompous narrator. It just cracks me up. Augustus Carp, Esq. is the worst type of human being - a holier than thou, socially inept prig. That he learns nothing from his misfortunes is brilliant, and the ending preserves my worst fears of the cycle continuing!
