https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/119797.The_Old_Man_and_the_Boy
Were Ruark and his grandfather really as close as we see here?
But whether it's an every word true blow by blow account or if it's embroidered it's still wonderful and brings tears to my eyes.It may be that the book is a bit dated and may appeal to older readers more, I don't really know.
Reading this could be a nostalgic experience and bring back memory or it may be simply a taste of what you missed, but whichever it's something that ought not be missed.And it's something that ought not be forgotten.
It's one of a few books that I routinely give away, not as a gift but just because "You haven't read it?!
His stories of growing up, wisdom shared, and often times earned the hard way, are what anyone, especially any boy should be blessed with growing up.
Cussing is a prerogative for adults.
I know it did with me when I was growing up.This book isn't for everyone, but I haven't met many people I couldn't recommend it to so I'm recommending it to you.
My father read me this book when I was a child and I have probably read it four or five times my self. It has an endearing quality that very few other books have. It is a book filled with love; it is a series of stories, and anecdotes written by a grandson about his grandfather. It demonstrates affection in a way that is so masculine, whilst being full of devotion. The Old Man and the Boy is a book that I would recommend to almost anyone...
While this is a book for men about being a man, I think in today's world it is women who ought to be reading it.
Ruark recounts the profound affect his grandfather had in raising him to be a real man.
as a real man.It was an eye opener for me as to how much our modern feminist culture has destroyed real manliness.
As it turns out, men really are different creatures, and not really built for androgyny...
Our current culture of misandry and its feminization of men seems a bit unfair.
We do not have to feminize men to make them decent human beings.
This is a series of tales, hopefully true, which were originally published in a sporting magazine. The writer (the titular boy) lovingly relates the wisdom passed on to him by his enate grandfather (the Old Man). It's refreshing to read something written by someone who claims to have had the perfect childhood, in spite of the fact that he grew up during the depression. The author's love for his grandfather shines through on every page; the book is consequently sentimental and soppy, and I loved every word of it.
My dad read parts of this book to me when I was a kid. I remember loving the stories then. Now, reading the stories as an adult, I loved it even more. It is a well-written nod to a childhood spent outdoors under the tutelage of a wise and devoted grandfather.
A world in which a mentor would guide him, show him, teach, and where he could come and go, where he learned all about life, character, integrity.
This is a story of young boy, who learns about life from his grandfather.
Who sage advice, today would be frowned upon by the politically correct, but the sound, tired, and well seasoned advice that made a boy into a man.I would recommend this book to everyone.
You will not be disappointed reading about a time, not so long ago, in which a young boy could grow up to truly become a man.
This is one of those books remembered from childhood.
But he is a better writer than Hemingway because he actually tells a story you want to read and the characters are not as dull and dreary as Hemingway's.It was a book to escape into for an 11 year old boy.This book might not have withstood time if I went back and read it again, but I suspect that it would.
Unlike the narcissistic drivel that passes for memoirs today, this one is a delight to read and you actually like the people and the stories.
Time to go back and look at it again.
The nostalgia of this book ebbs from every page. Ruark's memoir transports readers back to his childhood in North Carolina. The Old Man in his life imparts various pieces of knowledge and experience that shape the young writer into a classy young man. The detail with which Ruark recounts hunting expeditions, meals, and characters of his childhood are amusing and endearing. Reading this narrative is a slow and relaxing way to spend a summer day in the South.
This is my absolutely favorite book. I first read it when I was about 13 and have read it every couple of years since. It is extremely well written and will engage you from the first word to the last. It is a reflection on a simple but rewarding childhood that most of us can envy. Ruark led a tragic life as an adult but this account of his childhood is wonderful. I have searched out every other Ruark book and count him as one of my favorite authors. Not suitable for PETA members.
The home spun philosophy delivered while learning to hunt and fish is priceless and ageless. The relationship between grandfather and grandson is pure southern and worth a read. Don't get discouraged in the middle when it seems there are one too many hunting or fishing trips. The last 12 or so chapters branches. I live in Southport, the town where this book is based; it's a legendary tribute to the way things use to be.
Most books I read once; some twice; this one I have read 3 times and am ready to read it again. It is the essence of the outdoor life for those of us who still think like a kid and want nothing more than wade a creek, paddle a canoe, or find a wing shooting paradise. I can't get enough of reading it and of living it.
This book furthered my appreciation of nature and also led me to move out of the city.This book focuses on passing on information from the older generations to the newer. I think we have lost sight of how important that is in our society and I will no longer take my elders for granted.
Ruark spent his summers with his grandfather who taught him to hunt and fish as a sportsman and in the process how he should act in the world as he lived his life. These lessons stuck with Ruark his whole life. This is a excellent book for any young man!
My Dad had me read this book when I was young.Beautiful story.....
This was the first book that I read with my father and to this day I still remember almost every page, This one book and the time I got with my Father has forever changed my life!
To appreciate having known, in my case briefly, a grandfather--read great-grandfather--who had time for you, with few distractions and a lifetime of wisdom to offer.
A must for the bookshelf; I return again and again.
My favorite book ever. I've read it at least once a year for over 40 years!
One of my top-ten favorite reads.
Six stars if I could.
I grew up in Wilmington, NC and spent my childhood roaming the beaches and backwaters of this book. It is a great tale of love and coming of age in a time and place that doesn't really exist anymore, but you could still catch glimpses of in my youth. I could relate the close relationship of the boy and his grandfather and was deeply touched by this story and it's setting.
Really enjoyed this book. Lots of great lessons to be learned for children, particularly that in many instances you have to earn the ability to do certain things...and that can only come about through contemplation sometimes.
Great stories about a grandpa and his grandson knocking around the outdoors while the elder taught the younger about life. The stories come to a heartwarming but sad end as the Old Man enters the last days of the winter of life as the Boy is just starting his Spring. Good, good stuff.
The boy fascinates himself in the great outdoors as the old man teaches him lessons
Enjoyed the book,I'm as old as the old man. I think anyone that loves to fish or hunt would enjoy reading this book.
required. sweet lessons using an old man's wisdom and the outdoors.
Great read about embracing the simple things in life.
It's a book about handed-down wisdom hidden inside a book about hunting and fishing.
Great read if your 75 years old and have a 14 year old grandson. As I do!
