https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12759.The_Search_for_Delicious
Tons of fun.As to the book, it's an entertaining read with some interesting themes and principles.
Added to the "delicious" problem, we have a power hungry man riding around the country stirring up trouble in hopes of eventually getting the kingdom for himself.An intriguing parallel story thread starts with a prologue in which we're given definitions of mystical/magical creatures who still exist but have been forgotten or ignored by humans.
Throughout Gaylen's journey across the kingdom, he learns more about these mythical beings and the part they may still play in the kingdom.Overall, this was a fun and entertaining story.
Babbitt can do better, iirc. But even young me would have found the problem, and the solution of the quest, ridiculous. And some kids might get the impression that the world is even scarier than it really is, because adults are even stupider than they really are. Still, some lovely bits, an enchanting vibe, and delightful pen & ink drawings by the author.
There was so much I loved about "The Search for Delicious." "There was a time once when the earth was still very young, a time some call the oldest days.
This was long before there were any people about to dig parts of it up and cut parts of it off.
People came along much later, building their towns and castles (which nearly always fell down after a while) and plaguing each other with quarrels and supper parties.
The creatures who lived on the earth in that early time stayed each in his own place and kept it beautiful.
Amazing! At first it gets "BORING" but if you read it, it is very, very, very, worth reading! I guess i'll rate it 4 :)
The king, on the recommendation of his PM, chooses Gaylen to go on a journey to survey all the kingdom's residents, asking them what's the most wonderful food they can think of.
Problem is, no two people seem to give Gaylen the same answer, so how is he to choose?
While on his journey, Gaylen uncovers some issues far more serious than food.
The way Galen's journey turns from one goal toward something else also felt similar to modern times, the way news sources can throw out a smaller story they know will get people riled up so that their attention is off of bigger issues that some may want going under the radar.
My 14 year old daughter found this on a shelf and had vague memories of hearing me read it years ago.
The vocabulary was not challenging for a 14 year old, though we renewed familiarity with 'lithe' and 'zephyr' and touched on spelling a bit as we went.
I would recommend it as a fabulous family read-aloud for any able to listen without pictures.
I remember choosing this for 2 genders separated by 4 years.
I think I read it about 10 years ago, when I had a 4 year old girl and an 8 year old boy listening.
A wonderful tale about how everyone can come together and agree on something, even if originally they disagreed.
In this story, Gaylen, a young boy, is sent to poll the kingdom on what the meaning of delicious is.
Since everyone has a different opinion, fights often break out.
But in the end, it's someone who previously had no voice that makes a difference, just by sharing the joy of water.
And after reading this and thinking about a long drive I had yesterday, it's very true.
Nothing is more delicious than a cool drink of water when you're very, very thirsty.
3.5 ratingI really enjoyed the fantasy and fairy tale elements and how the plot progressed. The writing was also lovely and embodied the fairy tale atmosphere. I don't really have much to say about this book other than that it was a fun read, but I felt that the cause and catalyst for the progression of the plot was a little too silly for me. I would highly recommend this to any child or middle grade reader.
A nice fun little story with a delightful quirkiness and intriguing plotting, but somehow a little lackluster. Overall, a nice read.
We read this once for third grade Language Arts, and I thought it was the one of the greatest books in the world. I still love this book, it is definitely one to read again and again.
Rating: 3.5 starsAffectionate is your dog,Annoying is a loose boot in a muddy place ...Bulky is a big bag of boxes ...Delicious is fried fishFried fish! Delicious? I think not. Every person had a different opinion. So exactly what is delicious? In the search for delicious, 12-yo Gaylen sets off on a quest, which of course consists of a series of adventures.One take-home lesson: Wars can start because of misunderstandings and/or for ridiculous reasons.
"Good luck, Gaylen, and I'll send my cockatoo after you with the news each Wednesday and Saturday."
Or maybe the lesson is that all wars are fought for ultimately silly reasons?In any case, this book presents some interestingly complex themes in a simple way that is accesible to readers of any age, but I can't help but find it a little boring.
This is the second time I've read this book as an adult, and both times I've ended up putting it aside to read something else, even though it is relatively short and really only requires a couple of hours to read through.
But I still recommend it to anyone searching for book for their children, or to anyone who was not fortunate enough to discover it during their own childhood.
This book is one of the best things I read as an older child.
I figured it would just be a quick read to occupy my time during a long summer.
The Search for Delicious is the tale of a nation torn apart by a simple definition.
They are creating a dictionary for their nation to use and while things had gone fine for a while, the definition of "delicious" had created much tension.
A young steward is sent through the kingdom to poll for the best definition.
However, while he's gone, there is a terrible drought and the kingdom learns the true meaning of what is delicious.
I probably could have stuck with 3 stars and still made this an honest review.
I love this style of writing so much it's nice to find an example of it that genuinely works.
I was willing to give Babbitt another chance after Tuck disappointed me greatly, and she delivered what just may be my ideal example of pleasure reading: an unusual fantasy that doesn't have any roots in reality (perhaps some sly parody of war) and doesn't at all take itself seriously.
The wit and descriptive writing flow smoothly, and it wasn't nearly as disturbing, creepy, and preachy as Tuck, although if you have read that one, you'll notice a ton of similarities here.
4 stars.
If it wasn't for Sister Willburn, I'm sure I would just think this was a fun book with an interesting plot.
Natalie Babbitt's messages about religion and education were really profound(although they reminded me a lot of Ben, ha, ha).Summary: Gaylen, the adopted son of the prime minister, sets off on a journey to poll the kingdom to find out the true meaning of the word "delicious." Along the way, he meets some interesting characters, including Ardis, the mermaid.
When Gaylen meets Ardis, he also discovers how to save the kingdom from chaos.
In The Search for Delicious, the Prime Minister of the kingdom is writing a dictionary.
The King approves for it except for "Delicious is fried fish".
Soon, the whole town is arguing about what is the most delicious food.
The King decides to send the Prime Minister's son Vaungaylen to go to all the people in the kingdom and take a poll.
Vaungaylen does-and he goes through many adventures along the way.I really like this book.
It teaches people not to underestimate what they have.
I recommend this book to people who like reading about medieval times.
It was relatively short (less than 3 hours) and there was a mystery to be solved so it kept people looking for clues.
The main character goes through a sort of hero journey through the country trying to find the definition of the word delicious.
He comes to know and love the people of the land so he is willing to work to protect the people from a man who is trying to lead the country into civil war.
In the end, the young man establishes unity within the people and even I agreed on the definition of delicious.
This is the second book I have read by Natalie Babbitt.
Tuck Everlasting was the first book I read by her, which we read last year during fifth grade.
Like Tuck Everlasting, I really enjoyed this fantastical story about a young man sent on a journey by the king.
Mythical characters include dwarfs, a mermaid, and a strange little creature called a woldweller.
I would recommend this book to someone who likes action, adventure, fantasy, and friendship.
I found the story engaging and the book very readable.
What is a woldweller?
You'll have to read The Search for Delicious to find out!
It's been almost 20 years since I read this!
I remember that one weekend I was supposed to read the first few chapters so we could discuss it in my third or fourth-grade class, and instead, I read the entire thing in one sitting.
Not much of the book has stuck with me, but I remember a character going kind of crazy and throwing nuts around (was his name Hemlock?).
Mostly, I remember the conclusion - what they finally all agree on as being truly delicious.
It's a very satisfying answer that I won't spoil here, and I've thought about it often over the years.
April 2014 review:This is a book that my family discovered via an audio recording. We only listened to it once or twice, and for the most part forgot about it. I found it in a used bookstore and picked it up--my siblings were excited too!I just re-read it. It's a very delightful, simply-told story that says a lot about humanity, good and bad. Technically it's exaggerated and would never happen but it's also about what happens all of the time. Like most fairy-tales, I guess.I really enjoy it.
I thought that this book very very interesting to read because it shows how unrational humans can become.
This entire story was based on the agrument that sent the entire country into a state of fenzy.
Th search for the meaning of delious had sent the kingdom and its inhabitants into argrument over this one conflict.
Since everyone was busy fighting with one another, it gave tyrants to take control.
this story reminded m of how Hitler took control of Germany when the Germans had lost ww1.
When everything is a mess and everyone is agruing, it is very easy to minupulate.
This is a charming, wonderful story. I read this out loud to my family while we were on a long car trip, and everyone enjoyed it. A young boy is charged with a task for his King, and on his journey he meets magical beings and deal with unreasonable people. We had lots of laughs, and there are many touching moments. This is one the kids kept pondering after we were all done with it.
What a fabulous little book! This would make a great movie. Gaylen, the Prime Minister's assistant, is assigned the task of polling the kingdom to discover what food is most delicious. This task leads him to meet strange beings and to accomplish something even greater. Enjoy!
Thank you, Ms. Keebler, for reading this to us in 2nd grade, with your sparkly red chair and your Tab. Every day, we waited to hear what delicious truly was. And it is.
A very interesting book! It amazes me that Natalie Babbit can think up such an interesting story!
it was awsesome, if you haven't read it READ IT!
As a math project, students would brainstorm ideas of topics they could survey people on, while pulling details from the text to develop a creative survey.
The students would do all the work to develop and conduct a survey.
In their character's attire, the students would go around school gathering the information for their survey.
During their trips around the school, the students could recite or read a passage (previously written on their characters' dress) to a teacher or faculty member.
This would be a project supporting reading, writing, public speaking, math, and history development.
Prime Minister DeCree was asked to create a dictionary for the kingdom, but the castle people like the King, Queen and the General of Armies debated when they arrived at the word "delicious".
TO avoid the Civil War, the Prime Minister tasked his skinny assistant Gayle as a messenger to ask everyone outside the kingdom about their opinion with the word - delicious.But what Gayle discovered was more than he had asked about.
He pondered about the wit of the creatures in the book, the realization of an imminent war instituted by the King's own blood relation and the complexity and grave dangers that a simple word can cause.
Everyone in the kingdom is going of on what the most delicious food is so the king sends a 12 year old boy Gaylen on an adventure to figure it out.
It was like a 3 year old trying to tell a joke.
The woldweller was as old as time.
It was kinda different from what I normally read but still a great book!
It wasn't to little kid ish but it was still a fairy tale so it had lots of imagination and creativity definitely would suggest this book.
