https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/666194.Marguerite_Porete
And yes, I am so neurotic, I had to read it just to "get" that one reference.
Sometimes I wondered if I wasn't "spiritual" enough to understand it.
Sometimes I wondered if I didn't understand it because it was SO CRAZY.
Sometimes I wondered if a different translation would make more sense to me, but again, it was written in English, so...
Anywho, I am really glad I read it.
I'm glad I have this reference tucked away in my brain.
Its already really informed my understanding of another book, "The Shack" and my mind is blown that I would read these two books consecutively.
a life changer
While Porete is certainly an interesting historical figure my interest in her does not extend to her interpretation of the Free Spirit heresy.
What I am interested in however is how this woman submitted her book to church authorities in Paris just about the same time they were winding down with the Templar Knight heresies.
Less than a month after fifty four Templar Knights were burned to death in a field outside Paris, this woman too met the same end in the same way.
This is a wonderful translation of a difficult late-13th century French text, written by a woman who was later put to death for it.
Unlike many spiritual texts of the time, it discusses how one gets started through the Church and Christ, but then rockets past at least the Church in the fifth and sixth stages to work directly with God.I am interested in this text because of the mystery surrounding its transmission into other languages.
The English edition was translated by someone who left us only a set of initials to work with: M.N. But I am also interested in the spiritual notions of the 12th and 13th century expressed both in literature and in devotional texts such as the Mirror.
Not for those new to mysticism A bewildering, magical book, that is definitely not for those new to mysticism—if I had read this book a few years ago, I would not have been ready for it, and even now I’m certain much of its riches lay undiscovered to my current spiritual level.A book that neatly removes any and all middlemen, it is unsurprising that the Church found her and her message to be such a threat to institutional religion.
Women look too far to find the real stories of spiritual women. Marguerite Porete is a wonderful spiritual leader whose writings come from this 13th C mystic. Translated by Ellen Babinsky this becomes a beautiful teaching.  We listen to 'modern' women theologians or tv preachers and miss the wholeness of this Mystics thoughts.  Come and drink at the well.
The text is a running dialogue intended to describe the relationship between the individual and God, especially the relationship between the Soul and Divine Love.
Porete’s spirituality is unique, especially with respect to Divine Love.
She refers to five stages in which divine love makes a transition to act directly on the soul.
In the fourth stage, the soul becomes consumed by the ecstasy of God’s love, and in the fifth stage the soul comes into mystical and existential union with God. These stages involve three kinds of “death” along the way, in similarly difficult language and concept.
And not a book for persons unready to fall over the precipice from dogmatic constraints, or possibly very good selection for those needing a push to let go and discover another so-called heretic that simply lived too intimate with truth for the hierarchy to consider how she was a light of hope, not a darkness threatening the present and future of the Catholic church.
Yet her treatise of truth-telling lyrics lives on many centuries after the burning of her body, at the injunction of Catholic church heirarchy.
This fate and this treatise may remind us that sometimes the fear of falsehood easily blinds one to the truth.
Porete is astonishing and strange. She's also a lot less like Schreber than I initially thought. I read this, slowly and in awe, for a paper from which I wound up cutting all Beghard thought. Oh well.
Tried very hard to find meaning in this. Finally gave myself permission to take it back to the library. Blech.
Studied her life in the Foundation of Spirituality course when we covered Women Mystics! We read excerpts but I'm looking forward to reading whole book once my studies are done.
Strange and brilliant.
Some wild and astonishing moments, but mostly I was skimming over what felt inaccessible.
Before the world discovered the word spirituality Marguerite was writing about it.  Modern words from a 13th C mystic ..translated by Ellen Babinsky read this and get centered.
