https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/128435.Trusting_God
That meant that even if I failed my finals....even if I was without a job and without funds to continue my schooling...even if the Lord decided to take my precious brother home...it was good...and even more amazing, God was good too.The point of this story: I recommend this book...it may get tedious at times...but I am certain that the Lord wanted me to read it when he wanted me to read it...and for that I'm very thankful.
But God in His goodness had different plans for my brother.
I love Jerry Bridges books.
It's sad that there will be no more as the author died last year.
However, we still have a good number to read.
They are simple yet profound bringing Gospel truths to millions.
This is probably my favourite of his, followed by Respectable Sins.I anticipate reading this book again and again especially when going through trials.
It is easy to read about the sovereignty of God and mentally concur with this truth.
This book is a reminder that God is in control and that everything in our lives happens according to His plan and purpose for us.
If we are to trust God, we must believe He really is in control of our lives, that He is wise in His dealings, and that He is loving.God always seek His own glory.
"If we want proof of God’s love for us, then we must look first at the Cross where God offered up His Son as a sacrifice for our sins.
Calvary is the one objective, irrefutable proof of God’s love for us.” Bridges never minimizes the difficulty of trusting God in the midst of suffering or hardship.
Great book on God's sovereignty in the midst of difficult circumstances.
Prudence is the acknowledgement of our responsibility to use all legitimate means.""We must not only pray for God's providence in our lives, but we must also pray for wisdom to rightl understand our circumstances and use the means He has given us.""We should never use God's sovereignty as an excuse for our laziness or sin.""Not only is God sovereign, He is perfect in love and infinite in wisdom.""Dependence comes before perseverance.
Depend on God daily and He will give you the perseverance.""We are responsible to trust Him in times of adversity, but we are dependent upon the Holy Spirit to enable us to do so."
For someone with control-freak tendencies like me, letting go of my need to be in control of the situation and to have an answer or explanation for everything and putting myself completely in God's hands was an extremely difficult thing to do.Jerry Bridges addresses this exact issue in Trusting God: Even When Life Hurts.
198 "It is no wonder that someone has observed 'few Christians finish well.'" ...Who is this "someone" that keeps appearing?..) But all-in-all Bridges did a good job of answering the unasked follow-up questions that other Christian authors ignore.For instance, I found myself getting annoyed the whole way through chapter 3 - which deals with the sovereignty of God...
Then, at the end though Bridges adds: "A Word of Caution:The material in this chapter is "tough stuff." It should be read, studied, and prayed about when life is more or less routine...Above all, we need to be very sensitive about instructing someone else in the sovereignty of God and encouraging that person to trust God when he or she is in the midst of adversity or pain.
It will challenge you, remind you, move you, undo you, humble you, lift you, convict you and ultimately, change you.When I started reading the book, I thought I lived in a way that allowed God to function in my life unhindered - or out of the box, if you will.
For His glory, for our good or for both - His glory and our good.Coming to terms with the concept that God allowed the incident that happened to me personally in which I lost my home and all my possessions, as well as, the damage that was caused to my lungs, was challenging to say the least.
Jerry Bridges seems to have a knack for communicating the biblical understanding of the tension between of God's sovereignty and man's responsibility. He does this with his usual ease in this excellent work: Trusting God. Mr. Bridges' firm biblical grounding, immersion in the works of the puritans, and own life experiences have prepared him for the work of bringing this important topic to the layman in an easy to follow style, while never compromising on theological accuracy. A fantastic read for those in the midst of adversity or those wanting to prepare themselves for the future.
A profound and encouraging book, grounded in scripture. Trusting God in adversity is far from easy at times, but as Bridges reminds us, he is sovereign, he cares for us, and he never wastes our suffering. And that makes all the difference.
Loved this book! Jerry Bridges reminds you throughout the book that God does everything for our good and his glory (which go together). A good reminder that nothing is out of God’s control.
Excellent treatise on the sovereignty of God and how we can trust Him in the good times and the bad.
Trusting God Even When Life Hurts is filled to the brim with ways to help you build your faith and trust in God. The first three chapters are very deep as it challenges readers to trust God when we have bad things and situations happen unexpectedly in our lives.
This book, Trusting God Even When Life Hurts, challenges readers to place their trust in him completely even when they don't understand why God allows trials and tribulations to enter their lives.
I participated in a Church book study using Trusting God Even When Life Hurts.
I've always believed in the sovereignty of God. This book made it very practical to my life. Believing God is totally in control makes the hard times much easier to accept and face HEAD-ON. I highly recommend this book.
This book is excellent!
A must read.
I appreciate that the book is written "for the average Christian who has not necessarily experienced major catastrophe but who does frequently encounter the typical adversities and heartaches of life" (p.
This book is a help to anybody (read, everybody) who struggles with discontentment or anxiety related to life's "average" challenges.
A quote from Alexander Carson at the end of the book sums the book up well, "Nothing can be more consoling to the man of God, than the conviction that the Lord who made the world governs the world; and that every event, great and small, prosperous and adverse, is under the absolute disposal of him who doth all things well, and who regulates all things for the good of his people" (p.
I normally am not passionate about reading non-fiction and especially Christian non-fiction. That being said, this was a five star book for me listening to the audio version. Bridges wove scripture into the text seamlessly, and used both the stories and the wording from all genres of biblical literature to explore what it means to trust God.My only comment would be that the subtitle is misleading; the book could really be called Trusting God: as you live life.
It's true that trusting is much difficult than obeying. When you trust, you let a part of you to surrender the things you have no control. Trusting is especially hard when you are in an uncertain position of your life. The absolute promise of God is that He is always with us amidst the joy and the trials. Laying down your trust in God means putting up your faith in His sovereignty. Not easy, but it's worth doing.
Enjoyed every page of this book. I recommend this to anyone looking to grow in their knowledge of God’s sovereignty and to deeper their trust and dependence on God and His plans. Even if life doesn’t “hurt,” there are so many biblical truths to take away and countless reasons why God is worthy of our complete trust.
Very good book. A definite read/listen again (to be reminded of the frame of mind we need to have when dealing with the sovereignty of God in the midst of sufferings). Ended a little abruptly though (like this review).
Beautiful presentation of the sovereignty of God, His unfailing love, and the confidence a believer has in every situation.
This was a really good look at what sovereignty looks like in day-to-day life.
While the book didn’t introduce any new “big” ideas, Bridges made several thought provoking statements on the subject on God’s sovereignty and goodness that I found both uplifting and sobering.On Trust:If we are to trust God, we must choose to believe His truth.
Now, I must continue to remember that God is actively involved with every traffic light, email, and drop of rain that I encounter.Bridges addresses the notion that some will try to gain comfort by saying that God “missed that one” when tragedies occur, the position held by Rabbi Harold Kushner in When Bad Things Happen to Good People.
His discussion of God's sovereignty is beyond thorough, while the sections on God's wisdom and God's love feel a bit like an afterthought.
The closing chapters feel a bit tacked on as well.I think Bridges would have been better served to limit his book to the subject of God's sovereignty.
That is clearly the subject he spend the most time researching, and the area where he seems to have struggled most with trusting God. However, for those of us who struggle more with trusting the love or wisdom of God, this extended treatment of God's sovereignty--over circumstances, people, nations, and nature--does not really address our issues.
I have only had the privilege and pleasure of meeting Jerry Bridges once (when he visited Northern Ireland), but I have had the immense pleasure and deep blessing of hearing him speak every time I have read any of his books, and especially so when reading, and re-reading, Trusting God, Even When Life hurts!
We live in a world of 'self-made' and 'self-determining' people, and even we as disciples of Jesus can get caught up in this distorted worldview.Bridges, with a deft use and insight from Scripture, reassures us that God IS in control of all things, events and people and that he IS working out his good purposes for our blessing and his glory!the focus of the book is to enable us to easily trust God ...
Instead, Bridges presents a biblically-grounded celebration of the sovereignty of God in all things.His central theme asserts that we can only trust God when bad things happen if He is totally sovereign, wise, and loving.
Rabbi Harold Kushner chose the latter in his best-selling book When Bad Things Happen to Good People, a position that Bridges references (and refutes) throughout the book.Instead, Bridges presents a God that is both powerful and loving, both sovereign and wise.
Rather he draws heavily from both the Old and New Testament to defend a sovereignty that overcomes evil, a sovereignty that secures the glory of God and the good of His people, a sovereignty that can be trusted.
I just could not get into this book.
Perhaps I am not the target audience, having wrestled through the concepts of trusting God already, but it fell flat.In fact, when I finished I thought "I'm glad that was over".
If this is the first book of Jerry Bridge's that you've read, I'd encourage you to choose another.
The Discipline of Grace: God's Role and Our Role in the Pursuit of Holiness is one of my favorite practical theology books, and Transforming Grace: Living Confidently in God's Unfailing Love was the first book on God's grace that I read after coming to truly understand the gospel.
I've struggled with this audio and almost gave up halfway through as it is very repetitive.
At times this audio came across as very fatalistic although the author does warn against that himself.
I would only recommend this to listeners who come from the same theological background as the author, or maybe someone who is studying this particular subject.
There are so many better audio books out there that are far more encouraging and not repetitive.
I haven't listened to anything else by this author, and I doubt very much that I will try anything again by him.
This book was recommended to me by my counselor who recognized that deep beneath many of my issues in life and character was a distrust of God. That being said, this book sliced and diced me.
Jerry Bridges looks at different aspects of God's character - his sovereignty, his goodness, his love - and brings the reader to see from scripture and analogy that God is trustworthy.
The result for me has been healing and peace.Given that trusting God is at the heart of our relationship with God, I highly recommend this for every Christian.
Jerry Bridges did a wonderful job putting God's sovereignty into perspective.
He shows us, through Scripture, that all the adversity that comes into our lives as believers, is used for good.
God's main purpose is for His Glory and for our good.
One of my favorite passages is:"Looking upward we see God in all His majesty, power, glory, and sovereignty as well as His mercy, goodness, and grace...We deserve nothing from God but eternal judgment.
We are continuous debtors, not only for His sovereign mercy in saving us but for every breath we draw, every bite of food we eat.
We have NO rights before God. Everything is of His grace."
We may think God doesn't care, or that He isn't involved with the details of this world or our lives, or that He isn't in control, or that He doesn't love us.Jerry Bridges reviews three of God's traits: He is all powerful, has perfect knowledge and wisdom, and has perfect love.
He uses these traits to frame a perspective which one can then use to look at life with a God who has these traits and how we can learn to see His hand in our lives, in our trials or the perplexities of the world around us.
This is a wonderful book about God's sovereignty in the midst of pain and difficulty.
God is in control of every part of our lives and we must trust Him with the big difficulties as well as the little ones.
A great book to read if you are going through a hard time, or a good gift to give to a friend who is hurting.
Some of the most helpful chapters to me were: God's Sovereignty over People (chap 4), The Wisdom of God (chap 8), Trusting God for Who You Are (chap 11), and Growing Through Adversity (chap 12).
