https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32748305-silver-storm
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestI got my friend Minerva to buddy-read this with me, because the only thing better than bodice-rippers are bodice-rippers with friends. Also, the covers. Can we all take a moment to appreciate that cover? The original artwork, the banner font, the colors - I'm not sure who started the bizarre trend of replacing the original artwork with badly photoshopped covers for the Kindle edition, but they suck.I originally tried reading SILVER STORM a
The original artwork, the banner font, the colors - I'm not sure who started the bizarre trend of replacing the original artwork with badly photoshopped covers for the Kindle edition, but they suck.I originally tried reading SILVER STORM a couple years ago but ended up shelving it due to boredom.
She is bodice ripper HOT, which is like being Helen of Troy HOT.The plot is difficult to explain but it's basically Devon and Raveneau arguing constantly, with her thwarted ex, Morgan, occasionally popping in to remind everyone that he exists and Was There First.
Raveneau does the annoying thing of constantly getting Morgan's name wrong when speaking to Devon, referring to him as "Merlin" or some other name he comes up with.
he pays Morgan to go away so the wedding ceremony is actually a sham, and Raveneau comes to Devon's bed that night, initiating sex in the dark without even telling her what happened until after.What the freaking HELL?(For the record, I shipped Devon with almost every single character except Raveneau, despite knowing these other pairings would never happen.
It was great and I wanted more!The first half involves a sensuous French privateer Andre Raveneau escorting orphaned Devon Lindsay to her fiance in Virginia at the end of the American Revolution.
I can listen to Eric Ripert recite recipes all day...Years ago I read a book that designated romance novels, specifically bodice rippers into two genres: "Sweet" or "Savage".
(Even though it was Kathleen Woodiwiss who started the bodice ripper genre it was Rosemary Rogers that gave it a name.) Sweet defined a story with a hero who may be a cruel, callous, forceful or cheat, but he is the heroine's one and only.
Check out the cover for this and compare to this,  The story begins in New London, Connecticut in 1775. Devon Lindsay and her childhood sweetheart have their lives mapped out, but all that is swept into the dust when she meets dashing French privateer Andre Raveneau. After the town is sacked by the Red Coats, she's *rescued* by one of Andre's crew members who dresses her as a boy and stows her away on ship (he's in it for the sex). Andre discovers her in the nick of time and...You can pretty muc
Devon Lindsay and her childhood sweetheart have their lives mapped out, but all that is swept into the dust when she meets dashing French privateer Andre Raveneau.
After the town is sacked by the Red Coats, she's *rescued* by one of Andre's crew members who dresses her as a boy and stows her away on ship (he's in it for the sex).
Andre discovers her in the nick of time and...You can pretty much guess the rest.
I confess to having a lower tolerance level for heroines like Devon, hence a somewhat lower rating than the other reviewers.
Would like to see a lot more of these oldies brought back to life.
Solid 4 StarsIf you're in the mood for a good Bodice Ripper, you can't get much better than Silver Storm. It's an oldie but goodie.
Well, my stars....what the hell is this?I suppose it's an eye-opener in terms of women's lib, but that doesn't exactly make for a compelling, enjoyable read.
Our heroine, Devon Lindsay, is a simpering 18-year-old woman-child with a crush on the overbearing misogynist "dashing" french privateer, Andre Raveneau.
anytime something doesn't go exactly her way.
He date rapes Devon, but it's all her fault.
There wasn't really any "romance" just two emotionally void and immature assholes who couldn't keep their hands off each other.
There's a Happily-Ever-After ending, of course, but I couldn't help imagining that wasn't the end.
Listening to audio, which was ok if a bit monotone. It was cheaper than a usual audio, so I wasn’t complaining. Heroine is the old school foot-stompy spitfire always running blindly into trouble. I was still enjoying it though. Good, cheesy nostalgia.DNFd because apparently this is a neutered version of the original. Nope, nope, nope. I understand authors likely feel pressure to do this, but still drives me batty, especially when it’s not explicitly stated that the book has been neutered. I can’t enjoy flashing sapphire eyes and stompy feet unless a few bodices are actually ripped.
This was an interesting read with a few problems.
Andre our hero is simple delicious.
After all, it’s rare that you find a book with two friends genuinely in love with the hero.
The story started to become a bit too predictably after a while though, and although the heroine’s fiancé made things entertaining, he wasn’t nearly a good enough rival for Andre.
It would have been more interesting if he had giving Andre a run for his money.
The hero does get a little more wicked as the story moves along and that’s when the book started to get really good IMO.
I thought the story started off a bit slow detailing her adolescent years and first coming face to face with Raveneau.
Then the story moves on and now she is 18 years to his what???not sure.
They eventually share a kiss and when she turns 19 years they start a relationship.Not sure about his fascination for her but it is understandably that her fascination with him is because he loves the sea just as her father did.
As I got further on in the story, it became a little dry and I tired of reading but I can say close to the end it picked up which pushed me to completion.Was not fond of this particular read, but others may like it.

This story kept me thoroughly entertained the night I started it until 4:00 a.m. I chuckled and at times laughed out loud thru every chapter in the first 3/4's of this book.The feisty little wild child heroine was wonderful.
This woman's anyway.The darkness in his character slowly develops and doesn't really recieve the light of clarity til near the end of the story.
I say appreciated because at times there seemed such a gulf between these two in their maturity levels that it made the man/woman relationship feel a bit off.Action packed and never a dull moment, I was thoroughly entertained the entire time.
Cute colonial romance -- Andre Raveneau is one sexy pirate, and Devon Lindsay is an adorable heroine!
I was stoked to find this old bodice ripper for free on Amazon with audible narration available for a discount rate.
I don't think I have ever wanted to shake a character quite so much.I can't really say much about the hero, Andre Raveneau, other than that he is a French privateer.
However after reading some of the other reviews, Andre turns into a big ol' douche canoe sleeping with the heroine's best friend, sneaking into the marriage bed, and all kinds of other creeptastic behavior.The narration of this story was way off for me as well.
It is not well written.
I am just perplexed by the reviews given this book stating how well written it is!
Yes, the plot had promise, but the dialogue is stilted and...juvenile, for lack of a better word.
The formulaic plot was easy to predict, but could have made for a really great book nonetheless with better dialogue, MUCH stronger character development, and by working the period attitudes and customs more strongly into the characters' actions and opinions (and there are mistakes in regards to the period--ugh).
Every other period romance I've read just about beats this one.
As the story progresses, one would believe that she is maturing and learning, but no.
Both of the main characters are true to their personalities until the end, with Andre bending slightly to his new life.I was relieved at the way some of the plot lines ended (very little death/bloodshed) and happy to hear how some things were wrapped up so nicely, it was like the author tied a bow on it.This book does not get more stars because frankly I think some of it was too obvious (I can't say much or it will give the book away, but seriously Blue Jay?).
I just realized this book is older than me. sweetheart I mean no disrespect, but you are one horrible little book.idiotic heroine, doesn't know her feelings, fight the hero unnecessarily. I guess the writer thought picking a fight meant courage? I was so blinded by my irritation at the heroine to notice whether the writing was any good. it probably wasn't horrible. maybe this kind of style was popular then. this heroine is annoying and stupid. ahhh I am so frustrated by this heroine. I didn't notice anything else.
I wanted an "oldie but a goodie". Instead, I got a self-entitled, whiney 18-year-old brat who should have been thrown overboard after her umpteenth temper tantrum. And Raveneau, our heroic captain, twitches his lips at her antics. Standard response.I stopped reading at about 30%. Couldn't take it anymore. DNF, unfortunately.
A Privateer Rogue and a Young Innocent: Superb Storytelling in this 18th Century Romance!First in the Raveneau series, this wonderful story is set in the late 18th century, mostly in the waters off the coast of America in the time of the Revolutionary War when the French were allied with America in fighting off the British and the privateers were an important part of the young country's defenses.Young Devon Lindsey grew up in in New London, Connecticut and dreamed of adventures at sea borrowed from the stories of her sea captain father.
The British are coming!I always wanted to say that! When the British attack New London, Devon finds herself homeless as they attack and burn down the town. A man finds her and offers to help sneaking her onto a ship. It's when she meets Andre a handsome furiously intimidating man. What happens next? You will have to read to find out.
I've read all of her novels. This series is beautiful. Although Devon can get on your nerves, she is young and there was a war going on. The age difference of course was a bit of a problem I guess. But I loved the history background of the revolution. Fell in love with Andre. Devon turns into this beautiful woman and mother as the series continues. I've read this novel about 4 times.
The Pirate Andre Raveneau was such a fun character to read about. I was totally involved in reading this book and enjoyed every minute of it. This book typifies why I love reading BR's from the 70' and 80's and makes it worth being seen in public with these lusty book covers.
In a romance novel where we are supposed to sigh and swoon over the love between the hero and the heroine, all I saw was how unfaithful Devan could be.
She has everyone believing she is in love with Morgan, when her thoughts to us betray the fact she barely can stand him.
Devan was dreaming of Andre even before she was on his ship, while she was supposed to be with Morgan.
It was not Morgan's "wet and cold" kisses that turned Devan off, but that she wanted some old man who spoke French.Frankly, I think Morgan deserves his own book where he gets a woman worthy of him.
It has a great mix of true history in this action packed fiction.The main problem I have with this book is the immaturity of the main character, Devon.
People who enjoy that dynamic will love this book.
She has a great feel for Devon, really makes her far more like-able.
She has a terrific pace in the read, it makes the story move along.
The combination of a unique genre, the American Revolution, and a great narrator made the book a solid good read.Disclosure - I received a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.
Lovely twist towards the end when she finds out about how her Mother died (no point asking, I'm not giving you a spoiler!).
It's amazing that what you think you want, and what you end up with are sometimes wildly disparate.All in all a great read with a lovely swash-buckling hero and highly recommended if pirates, or indeed love and romance are your thing.I've put the other books in the two inter-twining series (see above) on my "To Read" List over at Good Reads.Having given this a bit of thought, and decided to give it 5 stars on Amazon/Good Reads.
My first book by this author....5 stars easily given.
I just loved this swashbuckling passionate romance.The story was very well written and kept me turning the page.
I have not put this book down.
Andre and Devon a match made in heaven two very strong characters dominated the story.
I wanted to hit Andre at times for his high handed attitude, but most of the time Devon stood up to him.
The passion just sizzled.
The book had everything a reader could want.
I shall be reading more from this author, have downloaded another book already.
Swashbuckling, check. Adventure on the high seas, check. Actual history (American Revolution), check. If not for a few writing issues (too much telling and passive tense, keeping the reader from connecting emotionally with the characters at times) and the fact that the "friction" between the characters seemed ridiculous at times, this could've entered five-star territory. Still a good enough read I bought the rest of the series.
Not bad, not bad. Came for the pirates, stayed for the romance. What? I can't help that I'm a marshmallow inside. Shut up.This book combines things I love. The Revolutionary War. A fiesty heroine. A strong male with a soft side hidden deep inside. Pirate ships. Battles. And the HEA wrapped up with a bow. I know this makes me cheesy, but I don't care.Three stars. I'll read the next one.
Absolutely loved it!Review over here!
I could not put this book down! As much as I loved the story, though, there were times when I absolutely hated Raveneau. However, by the end, I was much happier with him. Loved this book!
Tried to start this but not feeling it. Good thing I got it for free.
