https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14349.The_Pearl_The_Red_Pony
These are two of Steinbeck's shorter works combined in a Penguin edition.
Perhaps a better description is "just right stories"--beautiful writing with no more words than necessary.
The Pearl explores what happens to a pearl diver and his family when he finds "the pearl of the world." We see how the potential of riches transforms the diver's heart as well as his community and how he struggles with the tension between the 'song of the pearl' and the 'song of his family'.The Red Pony is a rich story of a young boy growing up on a western ranch in the early twentieth century.
The Pearl is a story I had not read since my school days.
It's funny, I remembered it as an "island story" but it's really set in Mexico.
The end is just too darn sad.
But it is superbly well written!The Red Pony is great, and sad, too!
Reading Steinbeck is like talking to a great friend!
I read the first story in this collection in school and I'm really glad I re-read it and read the whole thing!
The characters are so vivid - Jody, Billy Buck, Gabilan, and Gitano, to name a few - and the settings are alive with the author's vibrant description!
In The Pearl, circumstances repeatedly warn Kino and Juana that their great find is a curse as greedy men try to rob or swindle them at every turn.
Jody's choice lies in how he will deal with the death of his beloved friend.So while these stories were likely packaged to form a volume solid enough to sit on a shelf, together they show both sides of that age-old human conundrum about changing what we can, accepting what we can't and being able to tell the difference.Edited 8-13-2018
Two very good stories, albeit hard to digest in typical Steinbeck fashion. The Red Pony was more a collection of 4 very short stories than a continuous story.
I think I read this book after reading "The Red Pony." I set the bar low since I hated "The Red Pony", but I ended up loving this book.
Steinbeck doesn’t know how to write happy stories!
I love what the back of the novel says, though: “Two classic stories, in one volume, celebrating the spirit and courage of ordinary families.” That sums up this book perfectly.
The Pearl is about an extraordinary event that happens to a very ordinary man.
V depressing, would not recommend if you enjoy stories of progression or improvement; poor Kino & Juana.
The Red Pony is a tale about an even MORE average boy, Jody, and all of his time spent anticipating great events, just to face letdowns.
Beautiful language and descriptions of lovely landscape, deep feelings, & complicated characters.
The Pearl stands tall amongst Steinbeck's works, in my eyes.
I can't get over the images that gird the moral decay and the sense of imminent doom.
The pearl's existence, and its surreptitious collection, rends the souls of Kino and Juana.
They sink to a low place, populated by colonialists, common thieves, and the depraved greedy in such a human way that I too can still hear its evil song.As for The Red Pony, well, I think I just didn't immediately get what Steinbeck was going for.
But man, I admire the way he paints with his words.
When no one ever asks the question, "What were you reading the day you turned 40?" I will never have to answer, "This book."I've probably had this book following me around since I was 12, which is a good enough reason to read it. Another vacation read -- you'll see a trend of short novels and graphic novels this trip. Neither of these did a hell of a lot for me. "The Red Pony" worked more than "The Pearl," but the end didn't do anything for me.And now, to the dustbin of history, the book and the reader.
My memory from my junior high English days is that this literary duo opened the door for me to explore other writings of Steinbeck. Consequently, this read served a good purpose to lead me into deeper waters of this marvelous writer.
These are two short stories by John Steinbeck. Both were beautifully told and deeply engaging. I especially loved The Red Pony, as it reminded me of growing up on the farm. I love Steinbecks writing style of never going over descriptive, just enough to make his point. Each and every sentence is carefully constructed. I just ordered the short story collection, so I'm excited to check out Of Mice and Men, and his other well known works.
"He wanted to live in a great heroic time, but there weren't any heroes now"
if ''The Red Pony'' was better i give this book 5 stars, bc ''The Pearl'' wow, that was amazing.
"The Red Pony" was yet another beautifully written story by Steinbeck, though I did not enjoy it as much as The Pearl. Steinbeck had such a way with words in getting straight to people's emotions.
The Pearl Review (8/30/12)Gave 3.5 starsThe novella is widely entertaining with great plot and characters, still, I was just really hoping that the infant, Coyotito, could have gained something.
I was not hoping for Kino and Juana to become rich after they found the pearl (that would go against Steinbeck's message), but I was disappointed when Coyotito was killed off like that!
I liked Steinbeck's use of different characters and the balance between Kino's idealistic dreams and Juana's practicality.
I read this in one sitting.The Red Pony Review (9/1/12)Gave 2 starsTo be honest, I felt like the story was just a bit too depressing.
These 2 stories are the John Steinbeck I love.
He ends up throwing the pearl back into the sea.The Red Pony is about a young boy who gets a new pony that dies.
At the end of the story, a mare is pregnant and the boy is promised the colt.
All is poignantly told.One of the sub-stories in The Pony is about Gitano, an old, feeble man, whose life is at its end.
He takes an old, feeble horse, whose life is also at its end, and rides into the mountains, presumably to die with the horse.
i've only read the pearl and not the red pony just wanted to be honest.
everyone probably read this book in middle school or high school.
me i stole a copy one day while i was subbing at a middle school.
i fully intended to give it back but alas i never subbed in that building ever again.
i dont feel bad about this because it seemed like the book had never been opened and it was in a box full of copies of the pearl.
plus those kids were really stupid and i doubt that they could have made it through this book as short as it is.
Ненатрапваща поучителност (поучителност, защото след Стайнбек човек се чувства някак добър, зрял и изпълнен с уважение). Допаднаха ми и двете повести "Червеното пони" и "Бисерът", но "Бисерът" е по-поетичен, заради преживяванията на Кино, които са представени като мелодии. Стайнбек трябва да се чете, за да се усети бисерът вътре, за да се чуе музиката - дело на духа и природата
I am half cheating with this addition because I read "The Pearl" in middle school. Still, from what I remember, these two stories encapsulate many of Steinbeck's literary accomplishments. With "The Pearl," Steinbeck uses more mythical devices, while "The Red Pony" seems to derive from the author's life experience.
It's hard to choose between these two books, as they're both great pieces of literature. I read them as a child, and I can never forget it. Very powerful, but then anything by Steinbeck is wonderful. He is an artist with language. I've read them again, and cried just as hard.
I would like to state right here that I am sorry Mr. Erikson (7th grade English teacher), this book is wonderful. I ought to have appreciated it all those years ago...even if the pony does die on page 30...oops...spoiler alert.
This book was very different from the other books I previously read by John Steinbeck. I was highly disappointed with this book , for I did not feel as much connected with the characters as I did when reading Cannery Row.
A terribly descriptive and depressing account of a boy and his father and their search to express love to each other through the gift of a roan horse. The ending is quite grim...or so it was for me as a teenager. This is a great story for impressionable children.
This review is only for The Pearl. Charming story, even if a little too transparent with the theme of riches ruining character. This was timely reading--after a big promotion and raise :)
I thought that the Pearl was beautifully and simply written, but also very depressing.
The Red Pony by John Steinbeck
The Pearl was great, but I couldn't quite get into The Red Pony.
Both stories read like children's stories, but with brutal happenings. Thinly-veiled life lessons in both.
Kind of strange and disheartening stories.
Wonderful novella by a famous writer.
Both stories were rereads, but it's been about 15 years so I didn't remember much.The Pearl - 4 stars The Red Pony- 3 stars
