https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/393902.Basic_Writings
Every valuing, even where it values positively, is a subjectivizing. It does not let things: be.  A Gentle Warning Although perhaps a bit off topic, I’d like to preface my review with a gentle warning, by way of a note on interpretation.In matters philosophical, it is wise to be skeptical of interpretations. An interpretation can be reasonable or unreasonable, interesting or uninteresting, compelling or uncompelling; but an interpretation, by its very nature, can never be false or true. Thus, w
To put the matter another way, to read a great book of philosophy is not, I think, like reading a science textbook; the goal is not simply to assimilate a certain body of knowledge, but to have a genuine encounter with the thinker.
In this way, reading a great work of philosophy is much more like travelling someplace new: what matters is the experience of having been there, and not the snapshots you bring back from the trip.
In trying to understand why Heidegger might think this, we are led to his conception of truth.If you are like me, you have a commonsense understanding of what makes a statement true or false.
Heidegger is not as comprehensible as most people deem him to be; and this book certainly is a key to unlocking Heidegger as a thinker. Its the perfect peak into his ideology; from early on to late. I also feel Heidegger's philosophy becomes exponentially easier with a basic grasp on the German language, and also a basic knowledge of the Greek prefix/suffix. Its certainly a great introductory book to one of the greatest thinkers of the 20th century.
Second, he conceptualized the presence of beings as occurring by their absence--or what he termed "pres-absenciality".
It also made me think of what is traditionally termed "ordinary grace," like, for instance, our atmosphere.
And it can also, Heidegger would have us think, happen in even deeper ways as in the sense of Being and not just beings.
The task of Heidegger's philosophy would seem thus to be in accord with the ancient sense of philosophy as being the love of wisdom, wisdom being to recognize and appreciate and be open to what the tradition termed "ordinary grace".
had read some previously, decided to try this after latest heidegger: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1...questions arise, as usual- do i like his thought or the way it is shared?- but this is the man himself, and not near as complicated to read if you are afraid of trying, if you have heard he is difficult.
and this selection has useful abstracts before each reading, chronologically follows him, shows how his original conception of 'being' and 'time' over the years becomes 'clearing' and 'presencing'- but he never abandons his primary concern: the 'question of being' even as his language matures, he forms neologisms, he offers provoking thoughts, engaging thoughts, and some of his concepts easily misinterpreted become decidedly clearer...do not know if this would work independently as introductory.
This is a particularly famous, though cryptic essay, the major ideas in it are expanded at great lengths by Heidegger in his book `Introduction to Metaphysics,' published later in 1953.
The next essay is titled On the Essence of Truth, and it is particularly difficult.
He is interested in the essence of this question with regard to Da-Sein's `liberation' for `ek-sistence.' The Origin of the Work of Art is unlike any essay in the history of aesthetic philosophy or criticism, because Heidegger is not at all concerned with the beauty of art, nor with the thinking of the artist.
There is something reactionary, and old fashioned about Heidegger, but those same things are also what lead directly to the post-structuralist's and 'hip and edgy' philosophy.
Two works especially in this book, one on art and the other on technology are especially interesting, and have occupied my thoughts pretty regularly in the past ten years.
Maybe there will be more of a review, some thoughts or something here or in the comment section while I try to figure out how I'm going to use this book to bewilder a professor and get myself invited to an academic conference.
Martin Heidegger changed my life. Really. Every aspect. I'm not joking.
i never had heidegger prescribed to me at school, but i was given a lot of theorists whom you apparently can't understand without having read him.
having now read a fraction of his writing, i feel i have at least some grasp on the project of phenomenology and how enormously important his thought is to later critical theory.
and though i'm far from fully understanding his thought, i've so far found reading heidegger to be a pretty astonishing experience – maybe as powerful as first reading nietzsche's genealogy in high school philosophy class.
Review forthcoming...
They are the same kinds of arguments that are easily spun to make Humanism sound like the root of all totalitarian philosophies.
The meeting is now the stuff of myth, for some it is proof that Heidegger should be forgiven his Nazi affiliations.
The rest are fairly approachable, kind of like reading Faulkner: Once you get the rhythm you're in.
Sartre, Camus and the whole existentialist thing was an offshoot of Heidegger.
His work is also visible in a lot of post-war fiction.
I liked it a lot.
I've only read The Question Concerning Technology from this collection, but I am impressed. Now I need to set aside some time and discover what all this Being stuff is about.
Never had philosophical reading been such a difficult enterprise of attempting to understand what exactly the author was trying to explain.
When I could sneak a spare moment, I would go back to the  Basic Writings  and rediscover the way Heidegger approached metaphysical suppositions.
Now, with a fresh understanding of Heideggerian thought, I re-approached the  Basic Writings , this time reading them completely.
My suggestion is to first read and understand  Being and Time , then approach  Basic Writings .
I have more to read, but I will always keep this copy of  Basic Writings  close to my mind whilst trying to understand further thinking in Western Philosophy.
Yet this denial is not a defect or a fault, as though truth were an unalloyed unconcealedness that has rid itself of everything concealed.
This denial, in the form of a double concealment, belongs to the essence of truth as unconcealedness.
Truth, in its essence, is un-truth."And then two pages later: "Beauty is one way in which truth essentially occurs as unconcealedness."And then two more pages later: "Truth is un-truth, insofar as there belongs to it the reservoir of the not-yet-revealed, the un-uncovered, in the sense of concealment."It kind of made me think someone should just write a poem about it instead.
What these qualities are, I cannot say (if I could pinpoint them, then I don't think they'd be so powerful!) Another way to say it is: reading Heidegger, I'm reminded why I like this thing called art in the first place.
The thing about MH is you gotta accept the rules of his world.
And the only way to make a world in art, an all-comprehensive one, is to invent rules, many of which are arbitrary.
I think anybody can love at least some of Heidegger and not be, that dreadful word, a Heideggerian.
Wonderful introduction to Heidegger.Very important essay "The Origin of the Work of Art" influenced me greatly. Helps one philosophically understand work, space, contexts, and other vital philosophical concepts.
This is a fascinating collection of Heidegger’s writing, serving as an excellent introduction to his thought. There are some truly beautiful essays in this volume, especially interesting among them being ‘The Origin of the Work of Art’ and ‘The Question Concerning Technology’. Aside from the content, one thing to be noted is the clarity of Heidegger’s writing; it may be dense, but it is simple, without unnecessary adornment and fundamentally rewarding. Though I am not sure of every idea advanced by Heidegger, these ‘Basic Writings’ were an excellent introduction to this powerful thinker.
I didn’t understand half of what I read.But of the half that I did, I did like.
The readings can be dense and can certainly be heavily parsed for those who are reading for a heavy, intense account of Heidegger's views on metaphysics, but generally speaking the essays are fairly straightforward [especially compared to "Being and Time"] and well prefaced.The collection itself is well designed, thoughtfully organized and edited, and the notes by David Krell do exactly the job that I think editorial notes are supposed to do: Provide exposition that engages, without gratuitous commentary and insertion of opinion.
In "The Question Concerning Technology," Heidegger claims were are chained to technology, which he defines as both a tool and a human activity (311-312).
For Heidegger, "Technology is a way of revealing," rooted in the Greek techie, which means both activities and skills of a craftsman, but also arts, something poetic, a "bringing-forth" (318).
By the "essence" of technology, Heidegger means its "enframing," its ability to bring forth a totality where everything is available and manipulatable (Krell 309).
This, of course, is a danger that blocks poiesis (331, 335), but it also makes possible the saving power of poeisis, the arts that we can use to counteract the totality of technology (341).
Martin Heidegger is the original philosopher of Being. Much of his philosophy seems to be a largely circular argument around the idea that Being cannot be known, but we still try to know it; as such, it can be a bit tiresome. However, most of the tiresome bits were published in Being and Time, of which only the introduction is included here.By far my favorite work of his is "The Question Concerning Technology," a reasonably short essay wherein he discusses the motivation behind the advancement of technology - control, and ultimately reducing man to a resource.
pseudo-professor intones with severity on non-topics, in the service of his NSDAP paymasters. barf.
SENSITIVE AND NON-WORDLYThis is a strong collection, benefiting from an excellent and up to date cri
Reading B&T first helps make the Heidegger reading experience itself less jarring, while the subject matter does the whole "building" thing on priors.
of B&T, I found the selection of readings to be awesome, as I built on my previous reading of B&T.
However, the intro, excerpt made me wonder just how helpful the intro.
alone would be to a reader of Heidegger, assuming this was one's only exposure to B&T.
And I don't think it is helpful.
I see the logic behind excerpting the intro., but I can also imagine readers' frustration here.
Some essays on this collection are of the best pieces of prose in Western philosophy, especially "What is Metaphysics?" and "Letter on Humanism".
Heidegger creates a whole new set of tools to recover our lost relation with the world, which is from the outset an ethical-political-philosophcial project, if we think through classical categorizations.
However there is a huge amount of questions and problems left unresolved, or in Heidegger's language, his "clearing" brings some veiled aspects forth and lets certain beings shine through a process of unconcealment which at the same time conceals an awful lot of "locale"s of the question of Being.
Those concealed areas are the task of his successors.
I thought this collection was magnificent. I may not have understood as much as I'd like to have understood, but I felt like I got the gist of what he was trying to convey most of the time, around 70-80% of it. The prose actually felt pretty lucid and fluid, which I didn't expect. I deliberately skipped the introduction to Being and Time, since I thought I'd read it as a whole instead. My copy should arrive soon.
"Nothing Nothings."
Heidegger argues that any true humanism must be, in essence, about man's relation to being - not to some abstract notion of "man.""The Question Concerning Technology" contains Heidegger's thoughts on how the modern mind, conditioned by the all pervasiveness of technology, has forgotten itself, forgotten its purpose, its essence.
Our relation to language is defined by the mode according to which we belong to propriation, we who are needed and used by it."The Task of Thinking and the End of Philosphy" gives the main thrust of Heidegger's later thought, and also reflects on the history of philosophy and its purpose - keeping mind, among other things, that philosophy has been totally institutionalized, that it no longer not takes place outside the universities.
This is a strong collection, benefiting from an excellent and up to date critical apparatus and providing a decent, if not exhaustive, overview of the thinking of German philosopher Martin Heidegger through a well judged collection of essays by that author.
And that includes the step of reading authors besides Heidegger who look(ed) deeply into the fabric of the world but with different, less philosophical, lenses on.All that being said, this is philosophy of the first rank and deserves nothing less than five stars.
I'll probably read Building Dwelling Thinking, The Way to Language, What Calls for Thinking and The End of Philosophy in the near future, although I think I need to check out Heidegger's readings of other philosophers (he was a teacher after all), particularly Hegel.
My main fear is that this just another grand metaphysical construction that follows too uncritically in Kant's and Hegel's footsteps, whatever lessons he's claimed to have learnt from their failures in his writing; I can qualify this fear with the confidence that he's made enough departures in good directions for his to be an immanent and significant contribution to Western thought.
In his essay Letter on Humanism, Heidegger lays bare the source of his inquiry: "And yet Parmenides, in the early age of thinking, says esti gar einai, 'for there is Being.' The primal mystery for all thinking is concealed in this phase."This collection of essays represents the total spectrum of Hedeigger's thought as it began with Being & Time and ended with his declaration of the completion of philosophy and the beginning of thinking.
But in my opinion, where Heidegger ends with the task of thinking is most illuminating of where he begins: with the meditation on the mystery of the clearing, or the open region where everything becomes present and absent.
