https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1175227.The_School_at_the_Chalet
The series is also a weird mix of cosmopolitan (students from all over Europe, even a few Americans) with casual misogyny and asides that smack of racism, which honestly isn't the oddest thing in old-school British boarding school stories.The second set takes place some fifteen or twenty years later, when Madge and Joey and a bunch of former students, of course, have children attending the school.
And it's fun reading about the school now that it's so established!I don't know how the books deal with the two world wars that take place during the time these stories take place.
This is a well written, well paced, and engaging story, the first of many in a long series about a boarding school in the Austrian Tyrol.
I’m really glad that I got an unabridged copy, a facsimile reproduction of the original edition.
I might seek out the second book and others too if I can get unabridged editions.
I really enjoy Joey and Madge and so many of the other characters, and I’m curious to know what happens to them; I would guess quite a bit given how many books follow this one.
A reread of another favourite childhood series, which (slang aside) is holding up surprisingly well for a 93 year-old. There's something appealing about English school stories - especially ones that unfold amid the Austrian alps. Take a pinch of Enid Blyton, a shake of Noel Streatfeild, sprinkle with The Sound of Music and you're nearly there.
Loved these when I was growing up and they are still as magical as ever.
I read the entire Chalet school series when I was young.
Ms Brent-Dyer never patronised her readers - she expected them to be able to read and understand well written English and to have a broad understanding of history and geography.
I re-read this - the very first Chalet school book just recently and was charmed by its ability to still evoke my childhood enjoyment.
However, I will not be bothering reading the entire series again!
I am pleased I was able to revisit my childhood so pleasurably.
It is encouraging me to revisit many books that I have not read for decades!!
It is true that many girls of good family of the time had to make do with a governess, and perhaps a year or two at a boarding school which might have as few as a dozen students per term.
This was a time when most upper-class English girls spoke German--ww1 notwithstanding, the dear old Queen and her beloved Albert were still admired, and England still had ties with Germany, given that she was grandma to most of the royal houses of Europe.There are many adventures, large and small, and of course a case of "brain-fever"; I've read of it before in 19th century novels.

This is the first book in the famous Chalet School series.
This is a fun book like Enid Blyton's St. Clares and Mallory Towers.
So focus is on the young headmistress Madge and her attempts to start the school.
Individual girls and their temperament, the inter personal dynamics is not given so much importance.
Other than Jo, Madge's sister, only 2-3 of them even come across as characters with distinct personalities.
In some ways intensity is much lower because a broad sweep of events are covered and across both inside and outside school.
So the individual events just pass like specks.
I think I must have read every one of these stories when I was young. I just loved the fact that it was set in a foreign country and the pupils had to speak different languages depending on the day of the week. I wanted so badly to be a pupil there!
Enid Blyton's gypsies have nothing on Brent-Dyer's "religious" superstition!The School at the Chalet suffers from first book in a series syndrome, in that it's very slow to get started.
Joey is very likeable, although her health issues are forgotten for most of the book, and Grizel and Simone are also a little more three-dimensional than most of the characters, but one would hope that there is more development in later books – or at least more of an effort to focus on one or two of the school's students.
The first, and possibly the best, in the Chalet School series by the prolific Elinor Brent-Dyer.
Despite their tenuous financial status, she is able to acquire a Tyrolean chalet capacious enough to house a small school without much difficulty.
Despite this unlikely setup, the descriptions of the formation of the new school are detailed and homey.
Starting with only one pupil (besides Jo), the school soon attracts new pupils and quickly becomes an educational force to be reckoned with.
Soon the school is deservedly drawing pupils from all over Europe and even the Western Hemisphere.
I adored these books when I was a little girl, and I used to wish I could attend the Chalet School.
It sounded like a dream, a boarding school for girls, studying in a foreign country, and plenty of outdoor fun.I decided to re-read my collection this year, and even though I'm much older now, I still enjoy them.
In this first book, Madge Bettany decides to open a boarding school for girls in Austria.
Her younger sister, Joey, is her first pupil, and the Chalet School soon grows rapidly.This book sets the scene for the many books in the rest of the series.
Вроде ничего особенного, типичное произведение жанра jolly hockeysticks and lashings of lemonade, но затягивает, и теперь, когда ты, читатель, закончил книгу первую из пятидесяти, что ли, четырех, коготок увяз, и хочется знать, что там дальше.
А дальше тяжкий выбор между дешевыми, но сокращенными изданиями и полными, но довольно дорогими, особенно если собирать все.Жизнь в школе-шале уютна и весела.
Никто никого не лупит линейкой, наказания справедливы, ванны -- теплые, а на завтрак подаются великолепный кофе и небывалые сдобные булочки.
А вокруг Альпы: захватывающие дух пейзажи, альпийские цветы, неотесанные, но дружелюбные пастухи, которые приютят во время грозы и продадут кружку молока.
Все шалости удались, и никто не умер.
A ripping yarn is the best way to describe this. Written and set in the 1920s, there were some great moments to really transport you to that time. These include Joey nearly having 'brain fever' due to her imagination running away from her and Madge being prescribed a shampoo from the doctor to calm her nerves!
Loved this intro to the 60 odd book series of the Chalet School by Elinor Brent Dyer. I feel I have made some new friends and look forward to the fast paced adventures of future readings. Highly recommend to young and old.
Прелестная девичья книжка, в мире которой очень хочется жить.
first of many in series. great if you like old-fashioned school storeys. I loved it.:)
Great series about a school started in the Chalet. I look forward to reading the rest of the series.
It started out rather interesting, I especially liked the small-yet-international atmosphere of the school, but some of the sub-stories later on were just too cliché and a bit on the dull side, too.
Loved these books as a child and wish I could find them again.
The School at the Chalet is a very nice children's modern classic. The amazing adventures of the children captured me, the christian theme was intriguing, and most of there situations were hilarious. A great kids book if you ask me. This is an amazing idea for a story and the beautiful descriptions of the vivid countryside were THE best. I absolutely loved it. I do wish there were more illustrations, coloured, but it is a great book. Loved it!❤️
That's the equivalent of over £5 now, a price I try to avoid paying for any book, let alone a flimsy child's paperback - and I try to get as many as poss on Amazon's 99p deal!It really does stand up to adult/modern-day reading.
I thought the description of the 'Tzigane', the Romany, was far more respectful than modern day rubbish like 'My Big Fat Gypsy Wedding'.I'm sure Ofsted would put The Chalet School into Special Measures for its teaching and learning.
I'm sure modern day girls would be amazed.The plotting of mini-sagas is excellent, and in this book she is beginning to outline the characters which will develop throughout the series.
When I was about 11, my Mum came home with about 30 of these books that she’d picked up from a sale, and living in the country and with not much to do I ploughed my way through the lot.I was a `70s child, so I thought them old-fashioned, overly religious and much too goody, goody (Just William was my favourite, more anarchic and funny.) Even I could see Jo casually popping out all those children pretty unlikely.
You could almost do a GCSE History on the back of the Chalet School Series - OK a very Anglicised GCSE history without any poor people.I can still remember that first book vividly as if I read it yesterday (which is annoying when you consider there’s plenty more important things I’d like to remember but can’t).
She seems to have settled down a bit, so instead of trying to cram in every idea she's ever had, in case she never gets another book published, she focuses on just two: starting up a school from scratch, and Being Abroad.
When I finally visited Achensee a few years ago, it was like coming home, and although of course that was after several decades of reading and re-reading all the Tiernsee Chalet books, and many years of sighing over other people's photos, still, some of what I felt stemmed back to that very first introduction to Abroad which EBD gave me when I was a child.
Brent Dyer's quite long series--some nearly 60 books--about the fictional Chalet School, begun by Madge Bettany in the Austrian Tirol about 1925 as British boarding school chiefly because it's too expensive for her to live with her much younger and somewhat frail sister Jo in England.
The air of the Austrian mountains was then thought to have healthful qualities, and the school starts up with about 15 girls, some few from England, the others from local families.
Her younger sister Jo eventually becomes a writer of girls' school stories and historical novels along with marrying another doctor from the sanatorium, and many of the other students, including their younger sisters, show up for several of the books.
Years ago (I won't say how many!) I went on holiday to the Austrian Tirol with my parents and stayed in a resort called Pertisau situated by the largest lake in the region, Achensee.
In August this year, I went with my husband to the Tirol and we went to Achensee for a day trip.
It's all that which prevents me from giving it the five stars I would have given it when I was 13.That said, I'm on the lookout for the second book in the series, Jo of the Chalet School, because I want to see improvements.
Good and entertaining - though I'd prefer if more of the classes and school itself were shown (as opposed to whatever happens in the area around the school), I really enjoyed this, especially the fact that Brent-Dyer focuses as much on the staff as she does the students.
The premise is quite original since we see the founding of the school and the number of girls is quite small in this first book.
I did enjoy the story as it's got enough school stuff to keep me happy but I do hope the next installments will be a bit more focused.
The balance of the Englishness of the school with the foreignness of the pupils and the location is deftly handled and we can see the roots of EBD's belief that, as with the Nazis, a nation as a whole cannot be responsible for individual examples (although she is rather unkind to Berliners).
New ideas appear, some of which are strongly location-based - the cinema-company wanting to film the girls, the half-term night spent on the Alm, Grizel's attempt to climb the Tiernjoch, vaselining the blackboards (which seems to be a peculiarly Chalet-ish idea as it does not appear in any of her other works), etc.
The setting and EBD's experience of it is what sets the Chalet School apart from a lot of her other works.
Reading other reviews it's interesting to see some of the negative comments (the gypsies, there are both negative and positive views given on them (a character is even corrected re: they steal children), more so then in many modern tales/opinions - but it is by no means perfect.) I am equally sad to hear that they edited the series, as they have a number of others, as the time it was written is a key element of the stories and attitudes within.
In comparison to some later school stories, it is milder in some ways - and the mixed national nature of it is very interesting, along with things likes Josephine being in love with Napoleon...
It is about a new boarding school in a remote (at the time) area of Austria.
A British woman and her sister need a means to live off of (without going to India with their brother) and had fond memories from traveling to this area.
The younger sister is still of school age, so they decide to start a school for girls in the area.
Then the rest of the story is simply about the various girls interactions with each other.
I liked that it was about the women and girls trying to fend for themselves (for the most part...
However, it was still a nice, sweet, but at times, real story.
