https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7234828-glimmerglass
Especially when there are such wonderful authors out there who do it right - Richelle Mead, Melissa Marr, to name a few.\\\The writing here is incredibly unsophisticated and the characters so one dimensional and just plain stupid that it was difficult to finish this book.
It apparently never occurred to her which is strange because Black likes to go on and on about how Dana has been an adult for years now, paying all the bills, covering for her mother, yada, yada.
"I know you can be overwhelmed, and you can be underwhelmed, but can you ever just be . . . whelmed?"Courtesy of 10 Things I Hate About You, my thoughts on Glimmerglass.
But don’t get me wrong, it was not like I had to force myself to continue reading because it was so bad.
I tried to only read 5 pages a day like a certain heroine in one of the books I’m currently reading does, but I just couldn’t pull it off.
A gripping plot, cute romance and lots of endearing characters.Ok, I admit that the idea of Avalon being on top of a mountain in the middle of Great Britain is a tad bit ridiculous but apart from that I really liked the world Black created in her novel.
Jenna Black did a marvelous job of intertwining the fascinating, enchanting world of Avalon with unique, compelling characters.At the age of sixteen-years-old, Dana Hathaway decides she has had enough of her alcoholic mother.
Despite her father being one of the powerful politicians in Avalon, Dana struggles to discover who she can trust and how to survive in this strange, sensational world.My favorite aspect of Glimmerglass was Dana's narrative - Black managed to keep her wry and witty tone consistent alongside the vulnerable voice of a lost, teenage girl.
The second she sees Cute Guy #1, she's all: OOO, I'm in love.
Wahwahwah, some cute guy never really liked me because I'm so plain looking boohoo.
She spends half the book obsessing over how cute Cute Guy #1 or Cute Guy #2 or Cute Guy #3 is, or how boohoo, they'll never like her because she's plain.
Sure...It's not only Dana that's shallow, but the book itself.
Dana spends a majority of the book mooning over Cute Guys #1-#3, more time feeling sorry for herself, more time shopping and wishing she had a BFF, and the rest screaming and wailing while various people are attacked.
I think.I think I would have enjoyed this book more if I'd read it at a different time.Fact is, I'm getting a bit fed up with the new 'teen urban fantasy' genre and how formulaic it can be.
Not to say that I didn't enjoy them both, in the end, but after reading it I got the feeling that TSF was this book crossed with Beautiful Creatures; and as it was published before either of them, that feeling really bugs me.Breakdown-Liked: Avalon.
(Okay, so this is entirely possible.) But Ethan, Finn, and Keane is a bit much.The ending's little 'zOMG DANA IS SPESHUL SNOWFLAEK' thingamabob.
Loved this book! The Fae world was so enchanting and intriguing
Interesting characters, fast paced and gripping plot and fantastic writing.I liked Jenna Black's take on Avalon and Fairy.
I also loved the characters.
Dana is a strong character that I instantly liked.
Her possible love interest, Ethan, was my favourite character, he was witty and gorgeous.
I'm very curious about Keane, I feel there is a lot more to his character and can't wait to find out more.
I also like how the romance in this book is happening kinda of slowly (no love at first sight just lust).
I also liked Finn, her bodyguard, he was a great supporting character.
Can't wait to read Shadowspell.
However, by the second half of the novel I think Dana’s voice finally gelled with me, and I could actually begin to enjoy it.Plot .5Being bored in a book is never a good thing.
I also thought the realism of the Fae society in Avalon still being quite human-based was intriguing – it wasn’t so extraordinarily different like in Spells, another Faerie book I’ve read recently.
She’s not my favourite character, but I liked her more than almost everyone else.I think Dana’s mother alcoholism was approached rather well in this book.
4.5 Loved the world building full review to come....
Period.Overall, Glimmerglass is a welcoming new series that adds to my favorite collection of Fae books, along side, Lesley Livingston's Wondrous Strange; and Julie Kagawa's; The Iron King.It's creative, fun and funny, exciting and best of all it has Ethan's charming smile and teal blue eyes that made me melt like butter (okay, I talked about him a little) seriously though, it has a wonderful cast of characters that I loved.
Avalon is a place where the modern world mingle and coexist with Fae. Dana is through with being the parent to her mother.
So she runs away to Avalon to visit her fae father who she has never met.
She strongly feels it's gotta be better than the way she's living now, but sadly she has no clue what she's walking into.I thought this was a fantastic story.
I really enjoy fae stories- always unique and a departure from vampire novels.
Now I haven't liked every fae story I've read ...
Avalon is home to both humans and fae.
Everyone knows about Faery and Avalon seems more like Disneyland where everyone wants to go once and visit.
Dana is a rare half-breed with a human mother and an old Faery father whom she has never seen in her life.
Half-breeds are rare and apparently they are powerful ( Dana has no clue about this) so everyone tries to take advantage of her once she entered Avalon.
She meets two possible love interests ( what would be a story like this without love?) Ethan and Kean.
In summary, the plot is interesting and has a great potential, the main character Dana missed some deepness and development.
What it doesn't have is realistic teen dialogue, action, or consistency.
For a book about the world of Faerie, it is steeped in mundacity: shopping at Victoria's Secret, drinking at Starbucks, talking about Danish Modern furniture (p.
Seriously, what teenager knows about Danish modern furniture?
The novel is rife with this sort of thing.A couple of things will be appealing to readers, but more of the tween than the teen set.
If you know a girl that likes long descriptive passages about kissing, Glimmerglass is for them.
While Edward Cullen glitters in the sunlight, Ethan the Fae's kisses taste like cherries (p.
I for one, know that I've made multiple stupid mistakes in my lifetime and knew that they were stupid when I was doing them.The Faeriewalker thing was a little confusing to me initially.
"OH, SNAP!" I don't think that is spoilery to say that, but just know if you are having trouble fully grasping the concept like I did, Black doesn't leave you hanging!I think I was expecting a little more of a love story mixed in there as well, but I could see the possibility of a love triangle happening in future novels.
think there is a little something under the surface that we don't know about yet, plus he is totally bad-ass...
I spent a great deal of time being irritated by this book and the main character.
I did like the premise (I'm always up for stories about the fae), but Dana made me want to throw things.
I was rather intrigued by several of the side characters, some of whom I actually liked (Keane, Finn, Dana's dad [I feel like the man is trying.
Maybe Dana grows some more.
And maybe we'll see more interaction between the characters that has less of Dana blushing and her heart thumping and more actual content.
I felt like instead of giving the reader information about the current life or death situation unfolding around Dana, the majority focus of the book is a terrible love interest.The love interest, Ethan, is a huge flirt.
Especially when Ethan gets dumped out of the story line for a bit!Avalon is where our tale takes place, a place that connects earth and Fairy.
If a fairy wanted to leave Avalon and go to earth they'd basically be a ghost there and unable to use magic.
Upon finding out that Dana is Fairiewalker many Avalon fairies want her for there own agendas.
He was suddenly the most contrite guy ever, begging Dana for forgiveness after only knowing her for a few days.
I myself didn't like Dana too much, so I was confused as to why Kimber and Ethan were so smitten.
Finn was kind of funny, although I thought the situation where he let himself get beaten up for Dana was a bit dramatic and emotionally drawn-out.
I liked how Ethan kind of redeemed himself in the reader's eyes (I couldn't care less if he was redeemed in Dana's eyes), but other than that it was too weak.
When drunk, she admitted that he was a good guy but that being near him would turn Dana into a pawn in the politics of the Fae. Unable to bear her mother's drinking any longer, Dana contacts her father and arranges to run away to Avalon.Avalon is a unique city, and one of the most interesting parts of Black's created world.
However, that said, Black's Avalon and Dana's character are both interesting enough to move beyond the realm of stereotype and into the realm of good storytelling.I look forward to book two.
I was quite reluctant at first to read it since like I said, it's another Faerie book and there's so many already out there.
But the concept of Fey co-existing with humans in Avalon and humans knowing of their existence and living with them without fear or amazement is refreshing to me.
There could definitely be more than teaching that could come out of these three characters...like a love triangle perhaps?
And if this book was made into a movie, Finn's character is definitely the one I'm looking forward to viewing on the big screen!Fun, fun read!
Actual Rating: 3.5 StarsI had no reason to like this book.
The writing is mediocre at best and the characters lack originality.
I liked it a lot more than I thought, though.
For one, the plot was a little more complex than I expected, twists throwing me off every few chapters or so, and a few of the characters were not sickening stereotypes that you see so much in YA fiction.Shadowspell is sitting on my shelf right next to Glimmerglass, and my only question about the next two installments is:Are the next two titles related to the story like Glimmerglass was?Now, onto Shadowspell!
And the award for shit writing, dumbass- shallow characters and a storyline that would annoy a pre-schooler goes to.........Wait for iiiiiiiiiiitYOU GOT IT: JENNA BLACK and the FAERIEWALKER SERIES!WTF was i thinking????? I wasn't, at the time....nop....i did this to myself.sadface
But from the moment Dana sets foot in Avalon, everything goes wrong, for it turns out she isn't just an ordinary teenage girl — she's a Faeriewalker, a rare individual who can travel between both worlds, and the only person who can bring magic into the human world and technology into Faerie.”And for the most part, it’s an interesting enough read, if a bit slow getting started for me.
I am hoping that many of the names that kept popping up are actually introduced in later books.I don’t know if Black was trying to oversimplify the Faerie politics and events in the book to make it more YA-friendly, but I really wanted more explanations, more intrigue, and more action.
Yet, once in Avalon, she's caught within petty political games and several abduction attempts on her person because of her identity as a Faeriewalker - one who can pass through the human and Fae world without complication.If that particular summary sounds interesting, then I have to tell you that the way the story unfolds is nowhere close to the level of intrigue of the premise.
The political games and even the contrast between the human and Fae world are never fleshed out or added upon in this book, choosing instead to focus on Dana's encounters with some interesting characters that have more assumptions attached to them than proper fleshing out.
The slow-start story around sixteen-year-old Dana, who flees the move-around life with her alcoholic mom in the States to live with her fae father in Avalon, a neutral mountain state between the human world and Faerie, physically situated in Great Britain, picks up around the middle of the book, when Ethan, a panty-collecting member of the Unseelie Court, who tries to woo Dana in order to pull the Faeriewalker on the side of his house, temporaily disappears out of the picture.
Even though Black's writing wasn't the best in the world, she at least kept me engaged through much of the book.
Her reactions to the newness of Avalon, a city that's part fairy and part human, rang true to me.But I did get frustrated with some of Dana's shallower moments.
Just the thought of the love triangle that will probably be in future books is enough to keep me away.And the writing...
There's a moment, late in the book, when Dana has nearly drowned.
And it dragged the book down quite a bit, to have tense moments interrupted with something that just didn't gel.
Originally posted on Jul 14 2012 at Butterfly-o-Meter Books:This must be the hardest I have tried to read a book I wasn't feeling much.
Plus the story in itself didn't really get me all that curious about what's going to happen, I suspect this might have to do with the fairies, faeries, whatever you want to call them.
And here neither the MC nor the story as it evolved to the point I stopped reading it got me hooked.So I'm not saying that there's a particular thing that turned me off the read exactly, there just wasn't something to keep me in it.
Growing up with an alcoholic mother has left Dana feeling a little lacking in the parental department.
Black does a nice job of balancing the awkward position that Dana is in, and makes it almost fun to watch her grow into her own skin.As for the romance factor...
In regards to their relationship's with Dana, there really is not one.
Although there is no competition between the male characters for Dana's affections...
But there is definitely something about Keane that makes me want to get to know him better.Glimmerglass is filled with faerie intrigue, family secrets, and quite a few fascinating characters.
Glimmerglass did a good job, it’s not close to being epic or a must-read, but given the rules and circumstances – I really liked it.First 60 pages was like “hmmm, OK, not too bad, I just don’t see where it’s headed and what might be special abut it”.
But I like her all right and I believe she’ll have enough space for further development in future books.What I liked the best about Glimmerglass was the romantic tension between innocent Dana and self-assured but galant Ethan.
I blame it on the fact that I was really distracted my first few times trying to read this book.
Glimmerglass starts off in America, but then for the rest of the book, the setting is in the UK.
And some of the stuff that happens in Glimmerglass is just creepy.
Saying that, Glimmerglass is a super easy read!
Im glad I didn’t though!I don’t think I’ve ever read a book such like Glimmerglass.
There’s like, a lot of hubub about the term in Glimmerglass and I’m looking forward to reading the second book.
