https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85563.The_Empire_Novels
Ovaj serijal je sacinjen iz tri kako vremenom tako i prostorom odvojene price.
Heroji su neretko veliki protivnici samog Carstva ali zbog covecnosti koju nose u sebi i mogucnosti da sagledaju siru sliku ljudske civilizacije i budu humani spasavaju Galakticko carstvo razaranja i bede koju bi to razaranje donelo svakom zivom coveku u svemiru.
Dok poslednja govori o tome kako je imperija spletom cudnih okolnosti izbegla najsmrtonosniji moguci udarac koji je mogao doci sa planete Zemlje, odbacene i izolovane kolevke citave ljudske civilizacije.
Serijal dalje napreduje ka knjigama o Zaduzbini, vrhu Asimovljeve spisalacke karijere.
Tenía pendiente este trozo de la cronología de Asimov. Interesantes pero al ser cortos, algunas cosas parecían apuradas. Un "must" para los fans de Fundación y Robots.
Tenía pendiente este trozo de la cronología de Asimov. Interesantes pero al ser cortos, algunas cosas parecían apuradas. Un "must" para los fans de Fundación​ y Robots.
These are my FAVORITE science fiction books. They link to the robot books and the prefoundation and the book that comes after. Every few years I do a Foundation reading fest. It is about the changes in society and civilzations over thousands of years. Extremely interesting and insightful.
Трилогия о Галактической империи заметно уступает двум другим известным сериям романов Азимова (Роботы и Основание). Но это и не удивительно, ведь это были одни из первых крупных произведений автора, в которых он только пробовал перо, чтобы спустя несколько лет засиять на небосклоне научной фантастики.
Consolidating.The Stars Like Dust - 1995 - 3.75The Currents of Space - Nov 10 1995 - 4.00Pebble in the Sky - 1995 - 4.00
Die drei Romane sind in sich geschlossen und zeitlich - obwohl nicht direkt erwähnt wird, wie viele Jahre dazwischen liegen - voneinander weit entfernt.
Als eigenständige Romane lesen sie sich sehr gut, auch wenn Asimov vom wissenschaftlichen Standpunkt her viele Annahmen macht und diese nach heutigen Wissenstand, wie er selbst in einer Note sagt, unwahrscheinlich bzw.
Dennoch sind die Geschichten sehr fesselnd geschrieben, was nicht zuletzt auf die interessante Charaktergestaltung zurückzuführen ist.
I have read a lot of Asimov's work, and I've always liked it.
It's the last book of the "trilogy", and also, in my opinion, the best one.
I would highly recommend reading only Pebble in the sky, but if you want to know how the first Galactic Empire evolved trough time you should read them all.English is not my mother tongue so I'm sorry if the "review" isn't grammatically perfect.
I read these as a teenager and just devoured them. I don't know how they hold up for adults, but I still like the main premise of the series: psychohistory. Psychohistory theory is such that given a deep enough set of data for a particular chunck of time and space, one can predict the future. Those that parctice gathering that data and making predictions are called psychohistorians. The founding psychohistorian predicts bad things for mankind and makes or affects the changes in human society to change the course of history for thousands of years into the future.
Worth reading if you want to feel like you've tried to bridge the gap between the Robot and Foundation series. Unfortunately The Empire Novels don't add much to the Galactic story but are three independent SF books. All three books are weak. Pebble in the Sky was the only story worth reading on it's own merits alone. Reading The Empire Novels satisfied my curiosity about their place in the Foundation universe but not much else.
Three short stories about the imaginary future. One of them I think ties into the Second Foundation, as someone on a dying earth invents a procedure to enable psychic powers. I always wondered wear all them psychics in the 2nd foundation came from.
Asimov is the grandmaster of sci-fi for a reason. The characters are enjoyable and the stories compelling. A throughly enjoyable set of novels.
Asimov's writing is fresh and while building on a theme doesn't re-hash the same old characters in these novels.
N/A
Great collection of early Asimov. All short reads with interesting who-done-its.
impressive.
Composed of three stories, this is a set that acts as a bridge to the foundation series. They are all fantastic in a sense but they are all a bit boring too.
Pebble in the Sky by Isaac Asimov
