https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43015.A_Long_Way_Gone
- for his courage, his honesty and the remarkable work he is doing to shed light on the life of child soldiers in Sierra Leone and elsewhere; to raise consciousness and motivate political action to put a stop to the brutality and corruption of the regimes that use them.But, this is about the book--did the book work, did the book move me as it had the immense potential to do, did it put me into his world and let me share his trauma and pain at a visceral level - making me angry, sad, guilty, moved to action?
But when I let out a sad sigh of remorse that I didn't figure out exactly why I really wanted to be friends with that one guy in band in high school until it was way too late to do anything about it, I will at least think, "At least I wasn't killing people and snorting gunpowder."Like most of you reading this, I knew absolutely nothing about what was happening in Sierra Leone in the 1990s.
The army of Sierra Leone were hard-pressed to fight the rebels, and needed recruits.
It was a year when local High School kids in our area were assigned to read this book.
Then later in the year --Ishmael came to speak at our local state University to a room of more than 1,000 people.It was a powerful night!
Ismael Beach was 26 years old when this book came out.
**The beauty of connecting with new Goodreads members --is re-visiting books we have read!
Thank you *Ike* for the reminder that this was a valuable book to read.It only takes a few hours to read...but its a story one can never forget!

Anyhow, as an admirer of your never ending legs, I enclose a pill to your deteriorated hippocampus.Let me introduce:-Ishmael Beah(now don’t you get that dirty little mind working), Beah is a regular teen, trying to make sense of his life with his stepmother, a father who appears to have lost track of Beah’s life, harbors a dream of being a rapper by aping the likes of Run-DMC, MC Hammer and loves playing soccer with his brother Junior.Oh!
Dreadful isn't it?Beah’s story travels to a quaint village of Mattru Jong in Sierra Leone.
قصة مؤلمة جدا...لم اقرأ عن السيراليون قبل ذلك...اتفرجت علي فيلم Blood diamondوشوفت ازاي المتمردين بي
كتاب جميل جداو ذكريات صعبة جدا جدا جداو عمل إنساني فوق الوصفأنا فعلا مش متخيل ازاي ممكن إنسان يمر بك
A Long Way Gone. Memoirs of a Boy Soldier, Ishmael Beahتاریخ نخستین خوانش: نوزدهم فوریه سال 2016 میلادیعنوان: راهی طولانی که رفتم، خاطرات یک کودک سرباز؛ نویسنده: اسماعیل بئا (به آ)؛ مترجم: مژگان رنجبر؛ تهران، کوله پشتی، 1394؛ در 240 ص؛ شابک: 9786007642412؛ چاپ دوم 1395؛ شاید رقمی بالغ بر سیصدهزار کودکْ سرباز، نشئه از مواد مخدر، و کلاشنیکف به دست، در بیش از پنجاه منازعه و جنگ، در سرتاسر دنیا حضور داشته باشند. «اسماعیل به آ» یکی از همین کودکْ سربازان بوده، و یکی از نخستین افرادی ست که داستان و مشا
Memoirs of a Boy Soldier, Ishmael Beahتاریخ نخستین خوانش: نوزدهم فوریه سال 2016 میلادیعنوان: راهی طولانی که رفتم، خاطرات یک کودک سرباز؛ نویسنده: اسماعیل بئا (به آ)؛ مترجم: مژگان رنجبر؛ تهران، کوله پشتی، 1394؛ در 240 ص؛ شابک: 9786007642412؛ چاپ دوم 1395؛ شاید رقمی بالغ بر سیصدهزار کودک‌ْ سرباز، نشئه از مواد مخدر، و کلاشنیکف‌ به‌ دست، در بیش از پنجاه منازعه و جنگ، در سرتاسر دنیا حضور داشته باشند.
«اسماعیل به‌ آ» یکی از همین کودکْ‌ سربازان بوده، و یکی از نخستین افرادی‌ ست که داستان و مشاهدات خود را از یکی از مهیب‌ترین جنگ‌های دنیا بازگو می‌کند.
اسماعیل به‌ آ در «راهی طولانی که رفتم» که آن را در سن 26 سالگی به نگارش درآورده، داستانی را روایت می‌کند.
The fact that he does this with a child's candour, unemotionally, makes it even more disturbing.Children can be easily moulded.
And cruelty comes easily to children, because they do not think of it as "cruel" in the adult sense.
Values such as the difference between "kindness" and "cruelty" have to be taught to children-but these boy soldiers of Sierra Leone, most of whom have seen their family and friends massacred mercilessly, have been fed only drugs and hatred.
War is their religion, and their gods are Rambo and Shwarznegger.I salute Ishmael for the courage to come out of it.
From the very first page to the very last, you are kept on a rollercoaster ride of emotion, happy one minute and torn with grief the next, until you and the narrator have both attained a kind of wariness to happiness since you know it won't last.
An overview, so that you don't have to read it if you don't want to: Sierra Leone has been war-torn since the discovery of the diamond mines in the 1960s; in the 90s things really hit the fan.
Eventually, after much hardship and losing his friends to gunfire, the narrator is "trained" as a soldier and sent out to fight.
كلًَّما قرأت فصلاً من الكتاب أو جزءًا منه كنت أعود إلى صورة الغلاف وأتخيَّل ذلك الطفل المسكين الذي قادته ظروف حياته الصعبة لأن يكون مجندًا، ولأن يقتل المتمردون أول ما يقتلون فيه طفولته وبراءته، فيعيش حياته محاربًا مشردًا  تلك صفحة من تاريخ إفريقيا التي يبدو أننا نجهل عنها الكثير ـ شأن الكثير من دول وشعوب العالم ـ يوضحها إشمائيل ببراعة وبدقة، تجعلني كأنما أشاهد حياته فصلاً فصلاً ..ذهبت إلى محرك البحث ـ أثناء قراءتي ـ لأطالع هذا الكاتب الآن بوجهه البشوش وابتسامته الرائقة، ياالله!
For anyone out there who thinks war is "exciting" or "cool", that it's like a videogame or a film, this harrowing account from a former child soldier will make you think twice, no doubt about it. As he recalls the fear, grief and horror of the situation, his story becomes really powerful and one that hopefully people will remember for a long time.
Gut-wrenching and virtually unbelievable to a modern, Western-minded suburban sheltered life, this compelling first hand account of contemporary struggle and tragedy landed like a thud in my soul.
In the end, though, it is a tale of individual redemption, and hopefully a glimpse of possibilities on a national scale.
'Memoirs' provides a helpful introductory glimpse to the ravages of war: it does not discriminate and it is a hideous prospect.
I'd like to know, and the perfect time to present the information is with an epilogue of some sort.
As an over-privileged white American, it can be tough to even begin to fathom the struggles and atrocities that Africans face.
When I started reading this book, I wondered if the stories Ishmael Beah would tell would be so horrific that I couldn't continue to read, much less comprehend, them.
However, Meah tells his tale with a blend of humor, distance, and insight that took me right to the edge.
As a rule, I resist saying, "this is a book everyone should read," as it sounds so hyperbolic.
But this is definitely a book everyone should read.
Another tragic, eye-opening read. Chronicles Beah's childhood/teenage years in Sierra Leone.
Ishmael spent years fighting in his country's civil war, but then one day, he and his fellow child soldiers were rescued by UNICEF.
I liked how Ishmael admitted that he didn't understand the words he sang -- he was just imitating what he saw on music videos.Another favorite scene was the first time Ishmael heard the Atlantic Ocean -- the crashing of the waves was so loud that the boys hid because they thought it was an attack.
And when he visited New York, he saw snow for the first time and had no idea what it was.I am so thankful that Ishmael survived the fighting to tell this story, and that he finally found some peace.
This is one of those uber-rare books that everyone in the world should be required to read.
If I can cry while reading it on a train full of strangers and feel lifted up at the end of its conclusion, than I think it's touching in all the best ways.
It is one of the most sincere books I've ever read in my life and contains chronicling of a type of human experience that I've never seen and find too easy to ignore, that of the child in a war state on the front lines.
Please read this book.
Ishmael, a 27 year-old refugee from Sierra Leone now living in New York City, left his home with his brother and some friends to practice a new rap routine in a neighboring village.
Left starving and hiding in the forests, Ishmael and his group were eventually captured and forced to become soldiers.A boy whose favorite thing was to perform rap songs for people was suddenly cutting throats and shooting anyone that moved.
He was only fifteen years old.When the fighting moved from the villages into the city, Ishamel knew that he could not become a soldier again.
[10th Grade] DNF ~40% Found a scene very triggering and had to ask for a different book.
Unlike the concise yet powerful "Refugee All-Stars," the Diamond Road series was 3 parts, 2 hours each, covering the Diamond Industry from start to finish, the start being the diamond mines of Sierra Leone, and the end being the industry's attempts to make themselves not look like criminals who take diamonds out of a country whose citizens are among the poorest in the world.Movie Review of "Refugee All Stars"I wasn't excited "Long Way Gone" until I realized it was about the same country as this freakin AMAZING documentary I just saw on POV about refugees from Sierra Leone.
I finally got around to reading the highly lauded A Long Way Gone.“Africa breaks your heart.” That’s what David Denby of The New Yorker concluded at the very beginning of his review for “Blood Diamond,” drawing on the then recent releases of “Hotel Rwanda,” “The Constant Gardener,” “And The Last King of Scotland.”I concur, having read Ishmael Beah’s memoir relatively close on the heels of Dave Eggers’ What is the What and Beasts of No Nation.
في كل مرة يأتي أناس إلينا وهم عازمون على قتلنا كنت أغلق عيني وأنتظر الموت.
ورغم أني مازلت حياً، أشعر في كل مرة أسلم فيها للموت وكأن جزءاً مني يموت وسرعان ما سوف اموت تماما وكل ما سوف يبقى هو جسدى الفارغ يسير معكم .
سوف يكون اكثرا هدوءا منى ”ان تكون جلاد وضحيه فى نفس الوقت .
انا تحارب من اجل كل شىء ومن اجل لا شىء , ان تنتزع الادميه والبراءه من الاطفال ويتحولوا الى قتله يتسابقون من فيهم الاسرع فى قطاع الرقاب ومن يقتل بطريقه اكثرا ايلاما .
This book is the subject of my final project for Human Development psych class, and as such I will be updating the review at a later date.
While this story is an important one, for me the book did not go deep inside the issue enough to make any real impact.
I had known about child soldiers before, and I expected to read more about the psychological impact, et cetera.
I may be too hard on this, because I do not read biographies often, and whenever I read biographies from Africa, I tend to compare them to Nelson Mandela's Long Walk to Freedom.
.. هذا الطريق الطويل الذي سيسلكه إشمائيل حتى يُجند ثم تأخذه اليونيسيف لتعيد تأهيله ثم يعود ليسكن مع عمه بعد مقتل أسرته المباشرة كلها في الحرب، ثم ينجو فيه في النهاية و يستطيع الفرار من سيراليون بعد أن غرقت عاصمتها في الدماء ..
لتفاجئ بإنقلاب على الرئيس المنتخب يتحد فيه الجيش الوطني مع المتمردين بهذه اللا أخلاقية المشتركة و يعيثون فساداً هنا و هناك ليصل للعاصمة فريتاون بعد هذا الإنقلاب !صياغة الكتاب ممتازة تعبيره عن المشاعر الإنسانية مرهفاً و رائعاً ..
و نهاية الكتاب في نظري بهذه الحكاية الفلكلورية التي تُحكىَ في سيراليون كانت النهاية المُثلىَ ..
I listened to this on audio, and I adored the author's accent. I struggled to really emphathize with Ishmael for the first half of the book as the horrors of what was happening with him was so far removed from what I know. I can't even imagine children having to deal with these situations - as a victim, and as a perpetrator. The section that dealt with the rehabilitation of the child soldiers were my favorite section in the book. I admire the people who have the heart and the guts to do these amazing jobs.
How horrific! The amount of trauma both incurred and inflicted is immeasurable. What these boys have experienced simply to have their needs met is no way to live. Ishmael is the exception not the rule. 2017 Lenten nonfiction Buddy Reading Challenge book # 37
الكتاب مؤلم جداُ و هذا طبيعي كونه يتناول مواضيع كالحرب الأهلية و تجنيد الأطفال،وما يجعل تلك المواضيع
What an incredibly sad story. This book went full circle as it covered the life of a little boy in war-torn Sierra Leone. It starts out with him happily tucked between two families that love him, then he is ripped out of that little piece of reality . This story covers how the limits one sets for himself in life can be eroded away by life experiences that pick away at that line, blurring it, especially when survival and safety are on the line. Such tragedy.
The world undergoes problems, a whole load honestly. In this book light is shed on one of these problems. A problem that a part of the world might not have a clue about: the life and plight of a childsoldier. Ishmael Beah a Sierra leone boychild brings out his past in this book. the traumas he went through as a childsoldier and his eventual breakthrough.It was alot of heartgetting content in the book. Ishmael undergoes alot, the shine however fares in the end.
Ishmael wanders around Sierra Leone, examining the paranoia that the war has caused for the people, who usually are very peaceful, but at last gets caught by a rebel and forced to become a boy soldier, exposing himself to the savagery of war.
This book is an eye opener for it shows how horrific the war is in Africa and how it effects the person, causing Ishmael to go from a young boy who loves rap music, into a killing machine while he works for the army as a boy soldier.
