https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/186344.With_Malice_Toward_None
An intimate portrait of Lincoln; if I hadn’t liked Lincoln before reading Stephen Oates’ biography, With Malice Toward None, it surely would have won me over.
No matter how many times I read or hear of Lincoln’s assassination I hope and pray—for the country’s sake if not his own—for a different outcome.
I have multiple statues, books, movies and other memorabilia of Lincoln.
But this is my first time to read this book ...
Discovered there is a sequel to it: Abraham Lincoln: The Man Behind the Myths, which I may read.
But no, I will not read, Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter, even though my friend who also loves Lincoln says I should.
No book has ever made me cry like this- then again, I don't read many biographies.
It took me much longer to read than I anticipated.
Not because it wasn't interesting- but because it was a long book with a lifetime's worth of detailed information.
By the end I had really grown to love Lincoln and when his final days drew near I was deeply moved by his life and sacrifices and what he accomplished under what I can only describe as divine guidance.
Everyone ought to study history.
And every now and then we get an Abraham Lincoln.
What a dude! It wasn't just that he did so much, but he stayed so calm while doing it.This is a must read!
My favorite Lincoln biography. Take this with a grain of salt. You know how this works when you critically assess another reader's statements - what often comes out is that it is very likely the reader's only foray into said biographies. :> Not quite true for me, I recently finished "Lincoln and Whitman: parallel lives in Civil War Washington". Another excellent read, with a finale that's hard to beat in the genre. Off to "Team of Rivals" we go . . .
He is the author of sixteen books, many of which are focused on important people and issues relating to the Civil War.Oates’s biography was the first comprehensive treatment of Lincoln in nearly two decades.
Instead, like many other biographies of this president, this book ends disappointingly quickly following Lincoln’s assassination.Overall, Stephen Oates’s “With Malice Toward None” is a solid, but not outstanding, biography of Abraham Lincoln.
While there is much to praise about this book (including its comprehensive but efficient coverage of Lincoln’s life and its fluidity compared to many other biographies) it is far from perfect.
I was looking for a good, comprehensive biography of Abraham Lincoln's life.
Mission accomplished.Of course, you will learn all about Lincoln's political life, but you also get a sense of who he was as a person.
Why was Lincoln a great man?
No other President in American history faced such a great burden.Although this book isn't exactly a page-turner, it is very easy to follow and provides a very good overview of Lincoln's life, both personal and professional.
If you want to have a good foundation for learning about the great Abraham Lincoln, this is an ideal place to begin.
Even though I knew how this story would end, this book still had me on the edge of my seat!
I loved seeing him in the light of a real human, from his humble upbringing, through trial after trial, and failure after failure.
a man of peculiar strengths, not a strong, aggressive individual so much as a passive one with the durability of an iron cable, swaying back and forth in the tempest of politics, yet tenacious in carrying his 'great end.'" I also admire how his word was like an unbreakable contract that couldn't be broken.
I loved this book!
I learned about the Big stuff regarding Lincoln's life in grade school but I have never really understood the smaller details associated with his life.
This is a fantastic history book.
I was shocked that his presidency was under constant criticism...right up to the point of his assassination.
It was also interesting to read about the prominent people of the day and the absolute, bigoted comments they made concerning equality of all men.
If this book piques your interest in the Civil War, check out "Killer Angels" which is THE book about the battle of Gettysburg.
Abraham Lincoln truly was a national hero!
Extremely well done biography on Abraham Lincoln!Would recommend to everyone.Recommended to me by DavidI learned a lot from this book. A blessing from God that this was the man in leadership during one of the most tragic times in America's history.
Oates gives the reader a sense of the times, especially concerning the country’s hardening stance on slavery…many in the North originally thought it was tolerable if kept in the South where it would slowly die of its own weight, but did not want it to extend into new territories which would de facto nationalize it.
In Oates’ book you are reminded how Democrats fought to continue slavery in the south and extend it into the Kansas-Nebraska territory, while Republicans fought against it.
While there has been a lot more written on Lincoln in the intervening years, Oates’ 1977 book stands up to the competition.
Listened to audiobook from Recorded Books.Narrated By: Nelson RungerThe Los Angeles Times hails this biography as the finest ever written.
With an outstanding blend of brilliant scholarship and entertaining style, Professor Stephen B.
Oates brings us closer than ever before to knowing the real Abraham Lincoln.
Here is Lincoln as he really was—a gentle, determined man obsessed with death yet filled with life, troubled with bouts of melancholy yet blessed with a witty nature, and gifted with a talent for literary expression.
With Malice Toward None reads like an enthralling novel while piecing together the richest, fullest portrait of Lincoln in existence.
This text may seem tedious in regard to the details of Lincoln's early life. I found later that these details aided in my understanding of Lincoln's decisions in office. At the conclusion of the text, I felt I knew Lincoln personally and may have even shed a tear reading about his death:)
I had to read and write a book review for my History class a few years back and this was on the book list and I chose it because I could listen to it at work and thought it would be easy.
Second of all it was the most boring book I've ever HAD to read (or listen to).
However, on the flip side I learned a great deal about Abraham Lincoln and his life.
Over all, a very dry read in my opinion, but if you want to learn about the life and times of Abe this is the book for you.
This book was one of the best biographies I have ever read. As a Social Studies teacher I thought I knew a lot already about Lincoln and the Civil War, but I learned so much from this book about who Lincoln was as a human being and about the competing political forces leading up to and during the Civil War. I highly recommend it for people interested in history and for American citizens in general. And I'll say that it's crushing and sad that a man and a leader like this had to die like that.
Oates clearly holds Lincoln in adulation. I read the entire book wondering what human qualities and shortcomings might have been left out of glossed over. This read more like a pro - lincoln debate presentation. i'd like to hear the con viewpoint so i can make my own descision. again, great subject matter though and the arguments against the legality of secession WERE compelling and made me really re-think my position. (i didn't chionge it though)He dies at the end...
Oates is an evocative and gifted storyteller, as well as a first rate historian and biographer. This is the definitive Lincoln biography.
Took me 3 years but I finally finished it! Excellent! I learned so much about this great man that I was never taught in school. A long read, often dry, but worth the time.
Amazing book. Though you can see his bias towards Lincoln, it also shows his faults and his humanity. Love this book.
The most objective biography of Lincoln told in the most compelling way. I recommend for any Lincoln fan.
This all happened while the United States was being torn apart by a highly destructive Civil War.My favorite line of the book that captured the very essence of Abraham Lincoln as President of the United States:"....she (Harriet Beecher Stowe) extolled Lincoln as a man of peculiar strengths, not a strong, aggressive individual so much as a passive one with the durability of an iron cable, swaying back and forth in the tempest of politics, yet tenacious in carrying his 'great end'.
Oates did a wonderful job describing the anguish and turmoil Lincoln fought throughout his life during his frequents bouts of "the hypo"---depression.
And the reader gets an intimate look into Lincoln's friendships with many of his cabinet members and appointees, especially William Seward and Charles Sumner.
It was also illuminating to read further into Lincoln's anti-slavery beliefs; he was staunchly in favor of ending slavery but not necessarily someone who supported equal rights.
His personal friend though often political rival Sumner was a passionate abolitionist who believed that blacks be afforded the same rights, including suffrage.
This was my first full Lincoln biography, having read Team of Rivals and several books covering the civil war.
I found the book very approachable and especially liked the short sections that made it easy to put down and pick back up.Some things I picked up that I didn't know previously about Lincoln: His great admiration of founding fathers and principles of the revolution and of popular government, his depression and uncertainty in Springfield years, his admiration of Henry Clay, and his early moderate view on slavery.
Lincoln was a practical leader rather than an ideologue, willing to settle for less-than-ideal solutions when he couldn't have his ideal solution.The book reveals the hardship of the presidency on Lincoln and his relationship with his wife.
This is by far the best biography of Lincoln that I have read.
Lincoln's humor comes through, of course, but so does his anger, and most surprisingly, his self-doubt.
And it is a lively read, with wonderful, insightful sketches of the important people in Lincoln's life, like his father Thomas; his wife, Mary Todd; Sec'y of State Seward; Sec'y of War Edwin Stanton; and Senator Charles Sumner.
If I had to recommend a single volume biography, this would be it.
Afterwards, the reader should also treat him/herself to Gore Vidal's wonderful novel, Lincoln.
This is a powerful biography; I found myself feeling very sad for Lincoln, angry at the incompetence of so many Union generals who basically refused to fight, and frustrations with the whole Civil War that probably was unnecessary given the outcome.
The Emancipation Proclamation, while bold, did little to help slaves and was years before it was recognized.The book is depressing as it details Lincoln's poor childhood, the loss of his mother at a young age, and his estrangement from his father.
After four years of bloodshed the war finally ends in April of 1865, and Lincoln is assassinated days later on April 14.
If you like biography books then this is a perfect book for you.
The book goes through Abraham Lincoln's life and what surprised me was that there were a lot of stories about him in the book that just amaze me.
In the beginning of the book it goes through Lincoln's childhood and how his parents were.
After reading this book it made me look at Abraham Lincoln differently, you might just remember Abraham Lincoln as our 16th president of the United State but to achieve this he had to go through so many things and this book portrays it really well.
Okay...this only got abandoned because I didn't realize it came in two volumes of tapes (and I only have the first 9 tapes)...and I imagine I'd rate this higher as the early life stuff really doesn't mean much to me. Still, very informative and detailed enough to see how a man can be a politician and still be relatively honest and true to one's principles. I'd like to hear the second half.
Oates biography of Abraham Lincoln was one I remember wanting to read when it first came out in 1977, but I was too busy then. I've finally gotten to it, and really enjoyed it. It's reputation as on of the best Lincoln books of the late 20th Century is well deserved. So my current project of brushing up on the leaders & commander of the American Civil War is more than half done.
I picked this book up randomly at Goodwill sometime ago and figured it would be worth the $0.70 to eventually get around to reading it. This is an amazingly in-depth biography, all the more impressive that it was written in 1978. It had to involve so much research. I'd recommend it to anyone that wants to learn more about arguably our greatest president. 5 stars!
Stellar biography of Lincoln showing how he became the man he was and the president he became..Warts and all, a truly complicated man,who rose above all others to guide our nation through it's most troubling times.
Wonderful book! Packed with intriguing detail and scope. I left with much more understanding of the war, the nature of the president, and revelation that he had many detractors. It's not a quick read but it's well worth the time.
