https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39980.A_Year_Down_Yonder
With her father out of work during the Great Depression, Mary Alice, the female half of the Windy City siblings that we met in A Long Way from Chicago, returns to stay not just for a week in the summer, but for a WHOLE YEAR at Grandma Dowdel's place.
Though her Grandma is still as feisty as ever, Mary Alice has grown a bit, and she's not looking forward to spending so much time in that tiny town.
Though perhaps not quite as funny as the first book, this one ends up being much more touching and heartfelt.
I read A long way from Chicago, the first book, years ago and been meaning to read this one for a long time.
Recommended!Mary Alice's childhood summers in Grandma Dowdel's sleepy Illinois own had been packed with enough surprises and drama to fill the double bill of any picture show.
In the presence of these witnesses, I'm on record for saying you outdo the most two-faced, two-fisted shortchanger, flimflam artist, and full-time extortionist anybody ever saw working this part of the country.
" With a small turn of hand, Grandma waved Mrs. Sheets away.
Did your late husband go to war?" "Only with me,"Grandma said, "and he lost every time."
With her previous visits to her Grandma’s having been spent with Joey and only for a week, she had no idea how she would get on for a whole year!Grandma had all the folk from her small town frightened of her – and Mary Alice slowly began to see Grandma’s ways.
With a dry wit, stoic personality and strength of purpose that only the women of small towns who knew hardship seemed to have, she brings this book to life.
My 5th and 6th graders are currently reading this book.
I started the audio book on the way home from work and couldn't turn it off.
Much to her own surprise, she even begins to emulate Grandma in some ways.
Side note:After reading the first three chapters, all my students (boys and girls) came to school today raving about Grandma D.
If you ever plan to do an in-depth character analysis with middle grade students, I suggest this book.
And they're already asking if we can read the rest of the series.
This was a laugh out loud short that I could have listened to for hours more. The small town, rural, characters are the very best!! All are so creative and quite different that I could not wait to see what they would do next. Grandma is someone I would love to know. This is a series I won't miss.
3.5 stars.
I did not really care much for Mary Alice, who is sent to spend the year with her kooky grandmother because her parents cannot afford to feed her in the late 1930's.
On the other hand, I really liked the grandmother, who is a hoot and a prankster, wreaking mischief both on deserving teenagers and adults.
My favorite quote from the grandmother about how much easier life was then: "When I was a girl, we had to walk in our sleep to keep from freezing to death." This is a feel good story though, written for middle age readers.
Must take after her mum.) Anyway, A Year Down Yonder is the tale of Mary Alice, a teenaged Chicago girl suffering from the recession of 1937.
With a premise like that, one would envision a warm tale of discovery as the city girl discovers the wonder and beauty of rural life in the loving care of her kind and wise grandmother.
I probably should try to check out this book's predecessor.
It's one of those stories that you read it to just enjoy it, not just to see how it ends.
Her grandmother's life style is very far removed from what Mary Alice has ever know because her grandmother is pure country.
She is so country that even the townspeople are afraid of Grandma Dowdel.
In Mary Alice's year stay with grandma she has many life experiences that will follow her through to adulthood.
You are always waiting for the next surprise from Grandma Dowdel.
I can't wait to read A Long Way From Chicago!
Same cast of characters, different layout.Mary Alice, Joey's younger sister, is the narrator.
Joey is off with the CCC planting trees, and Mary Alice is sent to spend a year with her grandmother.
The girls in the school (all 17 children in the "high school") study "Home Ec" and somehow crochet used soda bottle caps into hot-pads (for taking hot casseroles out of the oven.Richard Peck's ability to make his teen girl narrator real, to evoke cash-strapped Grandma Dowdel's strength of character and attention to the personal dignity of the least of her neighbors make you wish she were YOUR Grandma, and that there were more stories of her and her grandchildren.
I'm not sure why my memory works that way.What I particularly liked about this book was that it was a lesson in show-don't-tell emotions.
Grandma Dowdel is said to have "eyes in the back of her heart", and that is an apt way of putting it.
She sees the revengeful mean streak, of course, but she also sees that Grandma makes sure the Abernathys are provided for, and rescues mean Old Man Nyquist when few other people would even think to check on him.
The grandmother is the kind of person that other people would call a "character".
And with each Holiday, we get another droll incident about something mildly shocking done by the grandma.
I liked the chapter about getting the materials for making the pecan pie.And then, pretty quickly, I thought it was getting old.
There are almost no recurring characters that wind through the book.
I can't imagine any kid recommending this book to a friend (maybe I'm wrong about this).
It seems to me that if you give this sort of book to kids, you will ultimately be teaching them that they shouldn't want to read.
Everything seems to be going well until the great depression hits Mary Alice's family. Her dad lost his job and her family moved into an old apartment for 7 dollars a week. To save money, Mary Alice is sent to her grandma Dowels quiet Illinois town, with a tiny little school house. At first Mary Alice longs to go back to Chicago, but after she meets new friends and goes on new adventure with her over weight, peppy grandma, all she wants to do is stay.
Listened to this with my true love. I wasn't the only one sniffling at the ending. I love this book with all my heart. Grandma Dowdel reminds me a lot of my own grandmother, and listening to this brings her back a little. I love the cats in the cob house, and what happens when the tornado comes to town. I love how Joey is and isn't here for the whole book, just like real life.It's absolutely splendid, and a lovely narrator doesn't hurt a bit. Highly recommended.
This was a very endearing and amusing book. The writer is going into her senior year of high school during the Depression and her parents, out of jobs, can't afford to support her in Chicago...so they send her to stay with her rather kooky grandmother and go to the little schoolhouse in the tiny town.
I've not read any other books by this author, but I'm sure that will change now.
Feeling awkward and rather in awe of her outspoken, gun-toting Grandmother, she doesn't want to go and has some trouble settling in.
This is an episodic book that follows her school year.
There are nice glimpses of life at the time - WPA and Kate Smith.
The story was spritely and would probably keep a young reader's attention well.NB - I listened to this narrated by Lois Smith.
Still, I had fun with it and it brought up some fond memories of my own Grandmothers, who were amazing women.
The Adventures of Grandma Dowdel, part 2, is as good or better than Peck's first in this series, "A Long Way from Chicago." As far as I'm concerned, Grandma Dowdel is one of the most memorable characters in all of kids literature! Both she and this book are hysterically funny, heart-warming, clever, inspiring. Mary Alice's character develops beautifully here, as she learns and matures and adopts some of her grandmother's most endearing traits through her year living with her. I only wish Peck had written ten more in this series.
I re-read this one for our Battle of the Books competition at school. I'd forgotten how much I enjoy Richard Peck's books!
it's not one of those books that has a point at the end or anything like that, but it's one that, if you're old enough, you notice -- one of those books where the characters change subtly so that by the end they've gotten much more mature or changed some other way.This was a really sweet book because you can see Joey understand his grandmother more.
But also give her grandchildren (Joey and Mary Alice) a really good time, away in the middle of nowhere (which is in stark contrast to their bustling Chicago home that they miss and also resent being sent away from).I love the book because it's sweet, sad, and hilarious.
This is exactly the kind of book I love to lose myself in.
No, I take that back; this is exactly the kind of book I find myself in.
I loved it from page one to the end, and everything in between.
Richard Peck may be the only male author I know of who can accurately capture the essence of an adolescent girl.
(Seriously, how does he know???) Mary Alice was a darling and a duck.
I want to be a Grandma Dowdal when I grow up.
There's a lot of love in these pages, some sadness, and a lot of lessons.
Grandma Dowdel steals the show in this tale of her granddaughter who comes to stay with her for a year.
This reminded me a lot of my father's story and how he spent a year on a farm with his aunt and uncle right around the time that the story was set in.
Farm folk always seemed to have more food than those who lived in the inner cities.
Chicago in this story, Philadelphia for my Dad. Learning important lessons about love and self sufficiency, people that grew up during these difficult, lean times had their lives forever shaped by them.
This is a charming book and quite short.
It is about a teen girl from Chicago during the Depression who goes to stay for a year in rural Illinois with her quirky grandmother.
It is really a series of vignettes about this year, and it's a great character study of the grandmother.
Oddly, the main character, Mary Alice, isn't terribly interesting or play much of a role in this book except to merely watch and tell the story.
If you enjoy character driven stories, this is a clean, light read you might enjoy.
It’s the Depression, and Mary Alice is fifteen. Her dad has just lost his job. Consequently, the family needs to move from their apartment in Chicago to a “room with light housework”. Her brother joined the Civilian Conservation Corps to plant trees. Mary Alice must go stay with her grandma. Wabash is a big change from Chicago! No tv, electricity or indoor bathrooms. How will she survive?This is a well-written and hilarious story. The characters are all well-defined, especially Grandma Dowdel. This is a light story that takes place during the Depression, and it is an unforgettable one!
Goodness, did I ever enjoy this.
It is old-fashioned, but charming, witty and humorous.
This is the sort of book that adults could definitely enjoy.
I will definitely try this book out on my daughter when she's a couple years older.
I sure hope she enjoys it too.
I don't want to spoil any of it, so, I'm not going to share any further details.
The grandmother is the fun character.
The characters feel like they are the extended family I used to sit around the kitchen table having coffee with, before the old generation passed on.
3/5- I liked itI liked it more than i honestly thought I would since I'm being forced to read it.
It has hilarious and heart-warming events.
The only thing that bothered me was that the ending was SUPER fast.
I'll give it a half point back since it was only 130 pages and fast endings are expected.
Grandma Dowdel was a really smart, funny, and cunning character who I came to love alot.
Mary Alice Dowdel was a pretty cliché character, but that's expected with these types of books.
All in all, it was a really good and short read.
I remember loving this one as a kid, and I certainly enjoyed it this time around. Peck's humor is spot-on, and his characterizations are truly delightful. Frankly, I think this book lacks the punch of some of its contemporary Newbery winners, but it's still an enjoyable tale.
A well-deserved 5 stars for this heart-warming little gem. GSD B of B 2017-18.
This book is just as good as the first one, and I'm glad I re-read it! One question, though- why is this series not called "Grandma Dowdel"? *shakes head in confusion*
Still such a fun read. Re-read for the Battle of the Books.
I kind of liked this book because it was about a girl who didn't want to stay with her grandma. Her grandma had a twelve gauge winchester (a really powerful double barrel gun) behind her toolbox. I like adventure books the best.
My goodness! We loved this book. I read this out loud to my two youngest. I don't know how anyone could not love these books. Just as good as A Long Way from Chicago. I will say though that the funniest parts of the book are best appreciated by adults, but my kids (10 & 13) still really liked it. A definite 5 star rating from us.
