https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/133793.Dead_Man_Walking
According to Sister Helen, failure of the defense to actually provide a defense is a rampant problem.I keep coming back to thinking about this issue in relation to the recent Supreme Court case 
Thompson was that Mr. Thompson was convicted of a crime and sentenced to the death penalty because the New Orleans prosecutors withheld evidence of a lab test that exonerated him.
The interesting thing if you take the Thompson case with Dead Man Walking is that Prejean is pretty clear that she thinks that this kind of thing went on all the time in the New Orleans Parish.
...if we believe that murder is wrong and not admissible in our society, then it has to be wrong for everyone, not just individuals but governments as well.  This is the crux of Sister Helen Prejean's argument against capital punishment. She also asserts that the death penalty is not a deterrent to violent crime, costs taxpayers substantially more than life in prison in the long run,and is not fairly meted out on the merits of a case, but instead influenced heavily by race, poverty, and geogra
However, I think she rectifies this somewhat in the second half of the book where the victims are finally given a face, albeit a somewhat hazy one.At this point in my life, I tend to agree with the sister, though I can't imagine how my resolve might be tested if it had been my child that was tortured, raped, or brutally murdered.
Plus, my personal experience is that those who claim to be of a religious persuasion tend to be more supportive of the death penalty than those who are not.Bottom line: it's a great discussion about the value of life, and whether the collective "we" has the right to take it.
„Przed egzekucją”, wydane w Polsce w trzydzieści lat po wykonaniu ostatniego wyroku śmierci w naszym kraju, wciąż wywołuje skrajne emocje, bez względu na to, po której czytelnik staje stronie.
To nie jest książka do czytania z przyjemnością, ale do poznania szerokiego spektrum faktów i uczuć, jakie pojawiają się przy tematyce kary śmierci, targając zarówno skazańcami, ich obrońcami, rodzinami zarówno skazanych, jak i samych ofiar.
„Przed egzekucją” to ważna pozycja, która wciąż robi wrażenie, tym większe, że w polskim wydaniu książki czytelnik znajdzie nie tylko wstęp napisany przez samą siostrę Prejean do polskich czytelników, ale również uzupełniający reportaż zatytułowany „Dawca krwi” Mariusza Sepioło o ostatnim polskim skazańcu.
I thought the book was going to be challenging, but not like this: people, dates, times, corruption of legal process, withholding evidence, common brutality to the families of both those convicted and those victimised.
Isn't that the saddest sentence in the whole book?Compare with p312-3: " Lloyd...went to the execution....not for revenge, but hoping for an apology.
Each day it must be prayed for and struggled for and won."Questions of justice, revenge, 'paying for crime', punishment, acknowledgement, restitution, acceptance, restoration all come up here.
El otro día me encontré de nuevo con este libro mientras buscaba en la biblioteca futuras lecturas, lo leí hace ya casi 20 años pero es tan estremecedor que te marca y a pesar del tiempo recuerdo lo que me hizo sentir el leerlo.
Lo escribió una monja católica que ha dedicado su vida a dar consuelo a los condenados a muerte y a sus familiares y que dejó en este libro el testimonio desgarrador que le ha producido esa experiencia.
Un alegato contra la pena de muerte con argumentos demoledores difíciles de rebatir.
Su historia fue llevada al cine con las interpretaciones inolvidables de susan sarandon y sean penn.
Actually 2.5/5 This was okay. I do really appreciate the message, but due to my mental health state at the moment this book made me super uncomfortable and made me feel kind of shitty. That ending was really good, and I almost started crying. Mini RTC
One thing that made me rethink the death penalty; she asserts that putting a prisoner to death is actually more expensive than keeping them incarcerated for life.
Sister Prejean says; "Public surveys indicate that support for the death penally drops significantly when the public is assured that murderers will remain behind bars for life."Another couple of things that made me think; "I wonder whether his death sentence makes his own repentance even more difficult.
I've never abandoned this many books in a short span of two months so I'm a little worried that I may be giving up too soon on them.
Really wanted to like this and was so excited to read this since I had loved the movie with Sean Penn.
The author jumps around a lot so there's not a linear storyline that made me focus on the story.
It made me start to lose interest every time she jumped around storylines.
A little part of me does not want to give up on this as I find a story about a nun befriending a man on death row so fascinating.
No matter your current thoughts on the death penalty, you owe it to yourself to read this book with an open mind.
I read it in the run-up to Easter 2007, and would recommend it as perfect reading for the season.
As I truly engaged with themes of guilt and retribution, I felt the reality of death row was brought home to me for the first time.
I saw it first, but it does not ruin the reading experience in any way.)
So, this one has a seriously funny story attached to it, but it also had a huge impact on me at that time in my life.
I went out on a first date with a really cute guy, and we went to the movie.
The book is very good, and it lives up to the notion that the book is always better than the movie.
It won't make you cry as much, though, as it's written exclusively from the Sister PreJean's perspective, and it's more about her work in the case.
Her perspective and guidance for those she meets is so compassionate and honest.
Sister Prejean is speaking on our campus on April 9th. I'm very much looking forward to speaking with her, and I'll be assigning this book (as well as attendance at her lecture) to my undergrad students. There may only be one or two books you read in college that really make an impact on the person you become. This might be one of them.
The author has devoted her life to being a spiritual advisor to people on death row. I have also read two books by her that deal with men on death row that have been unjustly accused. Her books will make you re-think the death penalty. This book has been made into a movie, which I have not seen, but will look for it.
The poor are more likely to be given the death penalty, the wierd laws surronding appeals, the political reality of the South, free defense attorneys who literaly do not know what they are doing, etc We in IL know all to well how people inncocent of the particular crime can be placed on death row..
Now that I am reading this I am fairly sure I cannot support the death penalty, but I am not sure what the answer is when it seems more and more really angry sick people commit such heinous crimes.
Capital punishment is a topic I have long wrestled with and this book is a must-read for anyone who is interested in a thorough treatment of the multi-faceted issue, albeit one with a heavily religious slant.
It is, after all, written by Helen Prejean, who is a Catholic nun who served as a spiritual advisor to several men on death row.
While I don't share Prejean's religion, I do share many of her opinions on capital punishment.
The fact that the book is 18 years old and thus presents obviously out-of-date figures was more of an obstacle to me than the religious slant.
I don't think you can read this book and continue to support the death penalty. Sister Helen Prejean's account of her personal experience is compelling, but when augmented with her cogent philosophical arguments, firm grasp of statistics and facts, and ability to calmly but firmly entertain and then quash every remotely plausible counterargument, the result will transform the way you think not only about this pressing political issue, but about punishment, humanity, and forgiveness. I think it should be required reading.
Written in the early 90's, Sister Helen Prejean's non-fiction memoir highlights her emergence as a leading voice in criminal justice reform.
Sister Prejean makes an interesting argument against the death penalty which can be ultimately summed in the Gandhian phrase, "An eye for an eye makes the whole world blind" despite the fact that Sister Prejean herself acknowledges that Sonnier's and Lee's crimes were horrific.
What ultimately makes Sister Prejean's argument compelling is that she acknowledges the pain of the victim's families and that the criminal justice system often fails to help the families as well.
Sister Helen is an excellent storyteller, and she is always careful to keep the other side of her story in mind: the Bourques and the LeBlancs as well as Pat Sonnier, the Harveys as well as Robert Lee Willie.
Sonnier, who expresses remorse and accepts responsibility for his terrible crime, who loves his brother fiercely enough to forgive him and (in a sense) to die for him, who is open to and accepting of Sister Helen's message.
A still sadly relevant treatise on the injustice and cruelty of the death penalty in the United States. The author, Sister Helen, is the real star of the book. She clearly and openly elucidates her own moral and ethical ambivalence between being a spiritual guide to men on death row--who have done horrible things, but are having equally horrible things being done to them--and aiding the victims' families whose lives have been ruined by these men.
I found this book to be an insightful look at the death penalty from both the individual and societal perspective. I thought Sr. Prejean did a great job of presenting the multitude of view points regarding the issue and handling each with delicacy and love.
Very affecting
Never mind, that is just a pet peeve.I don't know why I haven't read this before as I am passionately interested in the moral, legal, social and societal impact of the death penalty, on which my views have changed over the years.It's clear to me that, for a civilized society, capital punishment is anachronistic, barbaric, expensive and serves little purpose in crime deterrence.
In the capital punishment debate, this manifests as accusations of anti-death penalty positions as soft on crime, soft on murders, insulting to the victims and so on.In reality, death sentences serve no purpose other than a misguided sense of revenge, out of context and misleading quoting of "an eye for an eye" etc.
However, she does a great job of both giving a personal and detailed argument against capital punishment based on her own experiences as a spiritual adviser to two death row inmates and of giving a big picture, statistically based argument.
By sharing her own experiences, she gives death row criminals a face, makes them real people instead of monsters or cartoon villains.
She also makes clear that both men are deserving of punishment.
In fact, she did release a second book in 2004, one I've yet to read, but even that is five years old at this point.
Her talk didn't really convince me, to be honest--all I could think was, these men on Death Row aren't innocent.
But reading this book, and spending page after page with Sister Helen and her spiritual advisees, I couldn't help but see how very human these men are.
Sister Helen writes in a beautiful way.
The first 100 pages, especially, up until Pat's execution, were extremely intense and I felt as if I was building a friendship of sorts with him alongside Sister Helen.
But she challenges you with him--not all death row inmates are like Pat Sonnier.
From the point of Sister Helen Prejean and her intimate encounters with the death row inmates, one learns how much affects the executions and how much bias is presented throughout the whole process of the capital system.
Before I read this book I was all for it because I felt it could solve murder increase and punish those accordingly to their crimes, but after seeing the death penalty from the point of view of those affected by it, I realized that so much more goes into the execution than finding someone guilty and sentencing them to lethal injection.
Dead Man Walking by Sister Helen Prejean is a nonfiction novel that portrays the cruelty of the death penalty through two inmates she befriended.
After a rocky court case, Pat was given the death penalty, and his brother Eddy was given life in prison, although he did not kill the kids himself.
Throughout the book, Prejean worked to fight the death penalty for Pat, and all of the other inmates on death row.I would rate this book a 5 out of 5 due to its intriguing plot line, and controversy.
First line: When Chava Colon from the Prison Coalition ask me one January in 1982 to become a pen pal to a death-row inmate, I say , Sure.This simple answer led sister Helen Prejean down a road that shaped her into a spiritual counselor to those on death-row, an activist for victim's rights, and an activist against the death penalty.
This book was later made into a movie, but it covers a lot more ground than the movie.
If you ever get a chance to hear her speak make sure you go.
She's a truly wonderful presenter, and does a great book signing.
I read this book now, because my daughter's school chose it as required reading for this summer.I am purposely reading it before she does because I know it would provoke strong emotions and some very intense conversations.
I want to be prepared.This book is written by a pure soul.
It is written with a heart that holds an immense amount of love, passion and sorrow.
I am humbled by her passion, and grateful to my daughter's school for putting this book in our hands so we can learn the lessons of compassion, understanding, and forgiveness that these pages hold.
Sister Prejean makes no secret of her opposition to the death penalty; her book is an extended call for a religiously-inspired stance against it.
But neither is she blind to the pain of the victims, nor to the necessity of justice.
Her solution is thus the most difficult and radical of responses: to love and to forgive.
This is not a clinical analysis of abstract legal theories, but an impassioned plea borne of experience: Sr. Prejean has come face to face with evil, and countered with pity and love.
I read this book when Helen Prejean was back in the news for counseling Dzhokhar Tsarnaev after his conviction. Her central point is that how society treats its worst criminal offenders is a reflection on society as a whole, and she makes the argument that the death penalty is inhuman and cruel. Her interactions with the families of the murdered is fascinating as well, since she had to learn how to be compassionate both towards the families of victims and the criminal offender who has been convicted.
this book changed my political views. Prior to reading this, I'd always said that while I was intellectually opposed to the death penalty, if it were my sister who'd been murdered, I wouldn't be opposed in the slightest. After reading this simple, honest, forthright story of a nun's experiences counseling two murderers, I am now completely opposed under any circumstances, even more than 10 years after having read it. (The movie merges the two men in the book into a compilation.)
