https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/375990.The_Sleeping_Beauty
This is an adaptation of the classic French fairy tale by Charles Perrault written and illustrated by American artist Trina Schart Hyman, one of my favourite book illustrators of all time.
The double-page and full-page illustrations (and there's not a single page without artwork!) are just exquisite beyond words, all coloured, and with the story so well embedded to go with the illustrations.
I loved how Mrs Hyman is able to capture the dark and creepy atmosphere of the wood and the dormant castle and yet infuse them with a measure of romanticism quite suitable for a fairy tale at the same time.
Finally a satisfactory retelling of this classic fairytale!This is a retelling of the Grimm's version of Sleeping Beauty, and of the Sleeping Beauty books I've read I must say that this was at once the most grim and the most merry.It contains all the same warnings I've mentioned for other versions:Dead hens being plucked, a scullery boy being pummeled, bathing women (mostly just bar bums-though, I'm pleased this version clears up the bit about the frog-the queen was bathing in a pond here, which makes way more sense!).
That's it, that's it, Trina Schart Hyman is my favorite illustrator. She has a majestic, yet dark medieval style that I've become enamored with. The story was very nicely told but the artwork is fantastic!!!
A fairly standard Sleeping Beauty adaptation with a few beautiful sentences in it that set it apart.
Lovely illustrations, even though the Prince looks too old for the princess to me.
Probably accurate to the times, but still, she's just 15!
The guy who breaks the curse shouldn't be old enough to grow such a luscious beard!
One scary spread of the thorns around the castle filled with skeletons and such that might be difficult for sensitive kids (probably would have bothered me a bit when I was young), and the prince is imbued with a bit more personality than Briar Rose.
It was an interesting and rather enjoyable version of Sleeping Beauty.
It isn't grim and horrible like what the Grimm Brothers tell and I prefer it over the Disney version, which is saying something since I LOVE Disney.
Anyway, this version has more fairies, a gallant prince who wakes up the (surprisingly still young) sleeping beauty, Briar Rose, and I simply loved the fact that they called her Briar Rose because she was not only beautiful and graceful like a rose, but also mischievous like a thorn found in a briar patch.
The art in this book was simply BEAUTIFUL and AMAZING.
Me ha gustado ver muchas similitudes con ésta, como cuando todos los seres vivos del castillo se quedan dormidos, parte que me ha hecho gracia especialmente; también, el hecho que crezcan rosales alrededor del castillo.
Lo que me ha sorprendido es que en vez de ser tres hadas las que le regalan sus dones el día de su nacimiento ¡son trece!
Y todo por no ser invitada ese día.
Me ha gustado pero tampoco me ha parecido algo espectacular dado que ya conocía casi todos los detalles de la historia y no es uno de mis cuentos clásicos favoritos.
Aún así, me ha gustado conocer el cuento original.
The tale of a princess whom a vicious fairy decides to put her to sleep for a hundred years as the King and Queen have forgotten to invite to the party of the princess' birth.
Why the hell should children's fairy tales be for the most part dependent on this idea of damsel in distress, the princess who is helpless and waits for a prince to save her?
Such fairy tales distort children's conception of reality and build their minds and personalities to accept the gender roles that society forces them to adopt!
My favorite Sleeping Beauty version. Forget Disney. I love Trina Shuart Hyman's illustrations and her retelling of this fairy tale is a delight to read aloud. The Gospel and redemption elements shine brightly through as one reads of the King's son rescuing his bride from the curse that had a grip on her and all her kingdom. Love it. "Where one drop of blood drains a castle of life, so one kiss can bring it alive again."
Beautiful, earthy, very detailed paintings.
A beautifully elaborate retelling with magically dark illustrations.
All of Hyman's books are unbelievably beautiful.
It's slightly different than the other stories I have read about Sleeping Beauty, but it's so lovely.
which were awesome gifts to have -The book explained why her name is Briar Rose which was because of all the awesome gifts the good faeries gave her, she grew up to be so good and kind, but also mischievous and clever, she earned the name Briar Rose-The king only had 12 golden plates and the reason he didn't invite the last fairy was because he was ashamed of her eating out of a silver plate (honestly though, couldn't he just have bought a golden plate?
The Sleeping Beauty is a traditional retelling of the fairy tale, beautifully illustrated by Trina Schart Hyman. When the king and queen send out invitations to their daughter's christening, one fairy is left out-- and takes her revenge by cursing the child. When she pricks her finger on the spindle of a spinning wheel, she and all the castle will fall asleep for one hundred years. Trina Schart Hyman's illustrations are detailed and expressive, imbuing even the most minor characters with movement and emotion. A very satisfying retelling.
This book got five stars because there isn't a thing I would change about it. The illustrations are beautiful and the way it's written is also lovely.
Traditional LiteratureThis is an interesting version of the classic story, closer to the Grimm's brothers original. The illustrations are amazing and it keeps you interested in the story.
Face it, this creation will never be much of a feminist standard.What makes this book worth the read are Ms. Hyman’s illustrations.
When Briar Rose has her christening, the pictures are filled with flowers and candles and bracketed by stony pillars with blank-eyed human faces.
Even if Briar Rose is just a snoring bore, this book gives you plenty of other things to look at while she rests.
Every character has their owndesign, that also shows emotions and simply, personalities.
Also don't like Prince being on cover, even though Briar Rose isn't too active.
It should have been fairies and crib in my opinion.I like how story was developed yet stuck true to original-for example, father's feelings towards 13th fairy, 12th fairy's reasons for why she did such edit to curse, Briar Rose's name.
Sure, there should have been some of showing, but hey, not everything can be perfect.
I also love Prince's design, so original.Wouldn't reccomend it for small children, or adults that couldn't handle dark of this tale.
Hyman retells the story, but it is the illustrations that take the prize.
I was a little disturbed by the costuming of the rescuing prince, as it is of a different period from that of the original court- but then i realized, yes, it is of a later period.
late 14th century, to my non-costumer's eye!) Also, though Hyman says the princess pricked her finger on the distaff of the spinning wheel, the wheel itself as depicted is accurate to the period for the storyand has a quill, which is the 'spindle' mentioned in original story, instead of an aperture on the wheel.
While visiting the library, this book was chosen by the four year old girl that I baby sit, for us to read together.
Unfortunately, my inner-feminist did not feel that this story was good for my young friend.
I know this story is based on the Grimm tale but I didn't like reading a story that involved a helpless princess who is constantly being described as beautiful (nothing more).
Her existence is based on her attractive looks and the privilege (and in this case, misfortune) caused by living in a wealthy, ruling family.
Predictably, the story ends in a happily ever after and a wedding.
Now, I am not sure if this is just not the typical version of the story, or if I'm simply not remembering this correctly from my childhood.
This is the classic story of the little baby girl who had a spell cast upon her as a child.
The spell said that she would prick her finger and fall asleep eternally at the age of 15.
In this version, the entire town also falls asleep and the forest overgrows the city.
The fair prince many years later comes in to save everyone, marry the princess, and live happily ever after.

1 sleeping beauty IBCパブリッシング 2 80min3 sleeping, spindle, princess, fairy, rose, beautiful, kiss4 a You slept for a long time. I tried to wake the others, but they will not wake up. Now that you are awake, please come with me.b Many princes tried wake sleeping beauty up, but only Philip could help her from sleeping a long time, so I like this passage.5 I love a fantasy story and Disney animation, so I read this book. When I was a child, I always watched a Disney movie, that why I chose this book.
1 sleeping beauty IBCパブリッシング 2 80min3 sleeping, spindle, princess, fairy, rose, beautiful, kiss4 a You slept for a long time. I tried to wake the others, but they will not wake up. Now that you are awake, please come with me.b Many princes tried wake sleeping beauty up, but only Philip could help her from sleeping a long time, so I like this passage.5 I love a fantasy story and Disney animation, so I read this book. When I was a child, I always watched a Disney movie, that why I chose this book.
I did not enjoy reading this book very much. Honestly, it is probably because I grew up watching the Disney version of Sleeping Beauty. I did not think that this book was very appealing. The illustrations were dark and gloomy. However, they did look very traditional and rustic. I think that they fit the story really well. It was also interesting hearing this story in a little bit of a different perspective other than the Disney version. However, I like the Disney version better. I would suggest this book for middle aged readers, such as 3-5th graders.
A traditional retelling of the Sleeping Beauty tale, made amazing by the amount of detail in the artwork. As a lover of fairy tales, I was charmed by the beauty and detail that went into every page. Everything from the formatting of the text to beautiful scrolling details on the border, the attention to detail was apparent. I particularly appreciated the artwork on the page about all of the young men giving their lives in search of the fair maiden; it was effectively haunting. I can honestly say that this is my favorite retelling of Sleeping Beauty.
3.5 starsThe artwork by Hyman is lovely and memorable. The retelling itself is basic without deviations or flourishes.
This version of the story seems to me that it is intended for an audience slightly older than young children. The illustrations are full-page, full-color, and gorgeous. A couple are a bit more graphic than I would expect in a children's book, but are not offensive.This retelling is very, very similar to the original told my the Brothers Grimm, and the only changes made that i noted were for the purpose of further explanation or enhancing the imagery/character development.
Our old friend, Sleeping Beauty, retold from the Brothers Grimm. Only lightly altered, and nothing that really changes the plotWhat really makes this one, however, is Hyman's illustrations. Which are stunning. There's a running theme of an arched window, or something like it, in just about all of them. I also note the prince looks uncommonly mature for a fairy tale prince -- easy to believe he's bold enough.
Trina Schart Hyman was one of the greatest illustrators of children's books we had. It's a shame she's gone. Her work here was beautiful. The text and the path of the story have a very old-fashioned feel (as opposed to some of the more "Disney-fied" stories) and Hyman's images are a perfect fit. (Although I will say that the prince looks way too old for a 15-year-old girl, fairytale princess or no.)
This is a very traditional telling of the Sleeping Beauty story, based on the fairy tale originally written down by the Brothers Grimm. There is no real innovation where the plot is concerned. What makes the book special is its beautiful illustrations. It is suitable either to be read aloud, or for the kids to read themselves. All in all, a beautiful telling of this classic story.
Another gem from Hyman's pen. There is wonderful imagery -- forest and mountain-horizon, clothing, castle interiors. The sleeping beauty and the thorn-encircled castle have never been illustrated better, and this particular take on Briar Rose stands out markedly (and pleasingly) against previous depictions.
