https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13453029-wool-omnibus
The writing is good, the story is original, I highly recommend this book.
Usually I do like to give a summary of the novel but I won't in this review as I think there are lots of refreshing little things about the novel that are enjoyable to discover while reading, plus a few good places where you can say "oh wow I didn't see that coming".
I disagree with the importance of either as a reason for naming the book WOOL, and if you read even a few of my comments you will find lots of reasoning.
This is the review for the entire Wool pentalogy (my new favorite word, btw). Wool introduces us to a postapocalyptic world where survivors of whatever disaster that made the outside uninhabitable huddle underground in a giant "silo" that houses hundreds of people. As we can predict, the disaster was man-made (*). (view spoiler)[What we may not immediately suspect is that there are several more dozen of similar silos around (hide spoiler)] (*) "You Maniacs! You blew it up! Ah, damn you! God damn
Wool introduces us to a postapocalyptic world where survivors of whatever disaster that made the outside uninhabitable huddle underground in a giant "silo" that houses hundreds of people.
Right - apparently people already live in the underground missile silos.
No shit.Even speaking about the outside has become taboo, and breaking this taboo results in exile to the toxic outside, where - for reasons unknown to most - the condemned take time to clean the silo "windows" before their death, and the survivors inside can enjoy the toxic views for a few more years.
This isn't knitting a scarf so much as forging a steel chain.I absolutely love the character of Juliette, determined, essentially elemental, a person that rocks my character world.
132).But as organized and mechanistic as Juliette is in her world, by no means is she limited in her range of emotion: "She had made the same choices as an adult, to love without sanction, and so her hypocrisy was more keenly felt" (p.137)Howey has a gift for understated prose, and the writing was one of pleasures of the book.
Howey embarks an ambitious idea - trying to create a new society from scratch, and create characters the readers can care for - but a vast majority of questions the reader can have about his world, its past and present, science and technology are never answered.
Howey seems to be caught between wanting to tell a single story, and split it into several independent short novels - but doesn't pull it off, leaving each installment bordering awkwardly between wanting to experiment with new ideas and characters and dependence on the old for the sake of continuity.
Wool is the first volume of a trilogy (apparently, the 2nd volume is a prequel and the 3rd is the sequel to the first.) The plot is interesting, dystopian future with humans living inside because we destroyed the environment outside (you listening Mr Pruitt?).
A commenter as I was reading said the story was similar to (inspired by?) a Philip K Dick book called The Penultimate Truth.I found myself skimming towards the end, knowing how things would turn out pretty much.
That being said, this initial book did inspire me to learn more about Howey's particular take on a dystopian future.
Juliette takes over for the Sheriff, Holston, and quickly begins to uncover the secrets IT, led by Bernard, are hiding.This book got several good reviews from Goodreads' friends, whose opinions I deeply trust.
On one hand, it's got a fascinating story and was a great lesson for me to think about characters being non-white (see my Casting Review below).
Lots of great characters - it was even more fun for me because, instead of imagining each as a white dude or chick, I went out of my way to find non-white actors and actresses for each role.As I mentioned above, the story and world-building had a lot of promise.
Nothing leaped out at me, as sometimes happens, to kick me out of the story because of some technicality of writing or style that reminded me, "Hey, you're reading a book." Some beautiful little turn of phrase or clever dialogue that made me focus on the words and not the story.I thought the main characters were likable, and I found myself caring what happened to them at every point.
I mentioned as much to a friend who had read the whole thing, and she told me that Juliette remained the main character for the remainder of the book.Had I not known this, I would have honestly stopped reading it right there.
Due to excited reader response over WOOL 1, author Hugh Howey quickly released the next four parts in the series.
Word of mouth among bloggers and enthusiastic readers on sites like Amazon and Goodreads has the potential to lift the curse of invisibility from self-published works so that they may find their way to audiences who will love them.
Authors and readers are doing it for themselves, and I for one think it's a beautiful thing.
All of that to say, I love that the writing is so strong and capable (I've read too much self-published stuff where the prose is inexcusably sloppy).
Hugh Howey paints a world, or what is left of one post apocalypse, with an eye for detail that is easily visualized; one that you can descend into and inhabit.This is epic storytelling, told with a taut hand on the tiller, controlling the pace and direction, allowing the reader to uncover truths together with the many, care worthy, relatable characters that populate this place.
I blinked a couple of times and found myself entrenched in this world.
And every time I thought I knew where I was going, Howey held his grip firm on that tiller and took me someplace else.
When the old sheriff of the Silo dies, Juliette, a Mechanic, is thrust into the role and quickly finds herself in over her head after asking the wrong questions.
What will she discover when she's cast out of the Silo into the toxic world beyond and left for dead?Yeah, that's not a great summary but there's a lot I don't want to spoil.Since I've become more and more interested in the idea of Kindle publishing as of late, I decided to check out Wool, one of the juggernauts of self-publishing.
Juliette and Bernard at war with each other in the Silo is a story I’m more interested in than just another plot about unspeakable secrets kept from a society.
(hide spoiler)]Overall, Howey created a well written sci-fi tale with an intriguing setting that I was very interested in, but unfortunately, I found the plot and actions taken by the characters far less compelling.
Wool, by Hugh Howey is reminiscent of Robert Silverberg’s Time of the Great Freeze or Philip K.
I felt like the great work in the beginning slacked off towards the later chapters; I really liked the first story and the second and third novellas, but by the last book, I was ready to see this wrap up.
In fairness to Howey, I did like the ending and felt he concluded his story well.
Ultimately I think this book, like most dystopian stories, is fundamentally optimistic, with a story about the resiliency and determinism of humanity.
This book is an excellent and unique take on a post-apocalyptic earth.
Recently, literature has been saturated with post-apocalyptic stories and sometimes it is hard to find something that is fresh .
They are easy to empathize with.
They are easy to cheer for.
They are easy to despise.
In the end, some are hard to mourn.I am not sure this book is for everyone.
I did not feel either of those things so hopefully you won't either!
Wool Omnibus (Silo #1), Hugh Howeyتاریخ نخستین خوانش: دوم ژانویه سال 2017 میلادیعنوان: پشم (سراب)؛ نویسنده: هیو هاوی؛ مترجم: آیدا کشوری؛ ویراستار: نیما کهندانی؛ تهران، آذرباد، 1393، در 684 ص؛ از سه گانه سیلو کتاب اول؛ شابک دوره: 9786006225531؛ شابک کتاب اول: 9786006225548؛
Some books take a while to dig into.
The first few chapters set up the story, introduce you to the main characters and build a framework for the tale to come.
Wool sets up the story too, but in a heartbreaking and gripping way that has you consuming the book as quickly as possible, if only to learn the answer to: "that's not really about to happen, is it?"There are moments in Wool when I wondered if maybe the book was too dark.
This reminded me of  The City of Ember and a lot of other similar shows and books. I think IT and Engineering would be evenly matched adversaries for power in the silos. Even if they cycled with a history as often as the moties, control over the energy, food, and water should balance out any control that IT had.That being said I really like Juliette.
I enjoy Post apocalyptic Stories every now and again and as this book had been getting rave reviews I had to give it a go.
They are given the very thing they profess to want: They are allowed outside"The first chapter had me gripped and I really thought I had another The Road in my hands and really looked forward to something special.
While I did like the concept of the novel I found the book lost its initial impact after the first couple of chapters.
You won't regret it!Update May 13, 2012:Hugh Howey has announced over on his blog that his self-published book Wool has been acquired by Fox!
How crazy to have something explode so quickly like Wool has!Update October 29, 2012:Wool has been spotted at Powell's Books in Portland!I was bleary-eyed and walking towards the coffee shop when lo!
October 30, 2012:Guess what book is totally on the Goodreads choice for best sci-fi novel?Yeah!I know!I cast my vote so fast I didn't even see what else was on there.I'll be rooting for you, Hugh!
well, like living in a dystopian world where you don't know anything about what is beyond your immediate reach, while someone, someone else does.
It's a very workman-like plot, and I guessed a few things before they were revealed.
These were maybe not entirely believable all the time (Peter's "conversion" was off-putting, though necessary), but each character was identifiable enough and warm enough that it was fairly easy to willingly suspend my disbelief.
I greatly enjoyed getting to know her.And Lukas was one of the most believable characters I've read in a long time.
I read this a few years ago and as I remember I enjoyed it very much.
Cameras offer a glimpse of the outside world on monitors throughout the silo, letting the inhabitants see the sunrise over the wasteland and allay some of their claustrophobia, but the cameras often get grimy because of the atmosphere.
For many crimes, including the forbidden act of simply expressing a desire to go outside, the convicted is put in an airtight suit and sent on a one-way trip to clean the lenses of the cameras.
When a new sheriff of the silo begins to explore some dangerous secrets uncovered by her predecessor, she makes powerful enemies and stirs up forces that could lead to civil war.The characters are well-drawn, and even the villains have a sympathetic side.
This dystopian world is also well presented and I felt as I read it is literally in the Silos with numerous underground levels in which people live for hundreds of years.
Live in the Silo is under strict rules with which all the people are kept in ignorance and obedient.
Although she does not know anything about the law, she begins to explore the reasons why Holston voluntary departure in death, and soon realizes that everything around it is based on lies.
Believe me; the story will draw you into such vortices in this cruel world, where human life is worth less than a speck of dust.
Wool tells the story of a group of people living in an underground bunker with over 100 floors.
Cleaning is when the condemned person cleans the windows so the people can get a clearer view of the world outside.
This series has Twilight Zone written all over it, and I'd be surprised if it doesn't end in a Twllight Zone-type fashion.Wool One, 4.5 starsA man who is still grieving for his wife who was sent out for Cleaning three years ago, decides to go for Cleaning himself.
4.7/5 ∼ ITA/ENG (NOW ADDED) “Venivamo al mondo come Ombre e, dopo averne originata una a nostra volta, ce ne andiamo. Possiamo sperare solo di essere ricordati dalle generazioni a venire.” Più penso a questo libro e più mi redo conto di quanto mi sia piaciuto! Ecco perchè il mio voto si è alzato e ho portato a punteggio pieno la valutazione.L’idea è veramente originale, mi ha incuriosita sin da subito questo concetto del Silo e di come veniamo a conoscenza che in quel posto ci abita una vera e p
Mi è piaciuta veramente molto!Anche in questo caso, poi, ogni personaggio ha un suo ruolo e il suo perché, non ci sono nomi messi lì a caso, ognuno ti resta subito chiaro nella mente e appena viene rinominato si sa subito chi è, qual è il suo ruolo nel Silo e con qualche tra i vari protagonisti si collega e relaziona.
So. How  does  one start a review for a book as big as this one..? Wool  feels like the best book I've had in my hands this year. I know it's only April. But I don't feel like I'll read another one like it soon. Books like this you only come across every so often.All I can think it reminds me of is  Way Station  by Clifford D. Simak, although that one was more sci-fi, and this one's more dystopian. But the scope, the ideas, the implementation... That's what feels close.In case you haven't read t
feels like the best book I've had in my hands this year.
You can go to my blog to view this post in full.I do not know how to review this book without giving things away, to be honest.
Hugh Howey appears to be like that magician who pulls rabbits and other surprises out of his hat, and they just never stop coming.
Being Hugh Howey’s protagonist is no enviable task.The story begins in a silo - which isn't really a silo, it's more of a shaft, a bomb shelter, deep in the ground - sheltering the last remaining life on Earth, because the outside is a vast deadland.
I loved Juliette, the mechanic, who is thrust into the job of sheriff, only to discover the deception of the IT department in keeping the members of the silo complacent and unaware.Jahns, the elderly mayor's story was fantastic.
I loved their journey down the silo together.The last two sections might have seemed a bit too long, but overall, I was swept away, and definitely want to continue the series.I could see something like this happening to us in the future.
But my drive to understand the real story behind this post-apocalyptic colony was undermined by the slowness of revelations, their contrived nature, and wooden quality of character portrayals.I couldn’t suspend disbelief on the lack of communal knowledge about the causes of the apocalypse, why the world outside is so toxic, how the society could make a celebration out of the capital punishment associated with cleaning the lens of the only camera on the outside world, or that enough food could be grown without sunlight and enough energy generated from coal conveniently available for mining under the silo.
Wool is such a fascinating and absorbing political sci-fi. Give me the most complex of high fantasy worlds or magic systems and I can navigate them with no problem, but for some reason science fiction can sometimes completely baffle me. Not so here, thankfully! I was completely captivated with this early dystopian novel and chilling insight to the possible future of humanity.
This is fiction that to be honest I can almost see as a possible (and very scary) future the way our world is going, it's not as far-fetched as some novels I have read, food for thought.
It had me a bit glassy eyed in places.This is the Wool omnibus edition, so all five books in one, which frankly reads like an entire novel, you can't pick the end of or the start of the next book, very seamless writing.
I will be reading the next books/omnibus in the series as very keen to see what happens next.

