https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/296299.Puppet_on_a_Chain
13/01/2017I had read this book in the early eighties - I don't remember anything of the book other than the title. But the title suddenly flashed into my mind today. I wonder why?17/07/2018This book again came to mind today...

So here you do not have the gadgets of Bond or the ingenuity of Bourne but in Paul Sherman you have a determined investigator who remains credible in all his efforts, in an account that carries a threat and conveys a sense of danger still to a modern day reader.
The pleasure some seem to take in destroying human life is a chilling sensation that remains with you long after you finish the book.
Perhaps it is the violence within a tourist setting that unsettles still when we are now familiar with drug related incidents and its gun crime culture in our modern cities.
Set in Amsterdam and dealing with the drug trade, Paul Sherman of Interpol speaks in a voice similar to Agent 007. Too much description, telling and exaggerated action.
Paul Sherman is an “unreliable narrator” and keeps a lot hidden from us—too much, in my opinion—making for some vague reading.As a character, I did like Major Sherman much better than Maclean’s other heroes, I also loved the first person tense.
Overall, this story just didn’t do it for me—it was too dull and too disturbing.Most of this book is involved with dealing with junkies and pushers and thus, it’s pretty intense.
(hide spoiler)]I think I’m missing some parts with the content, but you get the idea.Overall, it ended up being a very dark and disturbing book, without enough plot or excitement to make up for it.
Breathtaking SuspenceThis novel starts with a bang then proceeds at breakneck speed to a dizzying climax. This book should come equipped with seatbelts. This was my introduction to this author's work. If his other books are this good he'll have a new fan.
MacLean seems to venture out of his depth in Puppet on a Chain, which results in a presentation of a drug culture that fits more with paranoid anxiety like Reefer Madness than with real drug economy.
This story is full of over-top crazies, and the main investigator with his two super beautiful assistants reads like a silly male fantasy.
This is redeemed somewhat by the investigator's incompetence -- he makes mistake after mistake, stumbling around Amsterdam -- eventually resulting in the most lurid nightmarish death sequence I've found in MacLean's work so far.
I never took the saying 'Do not judge a book by it's cover' even for it's face value.
Never before have I ever read or even seen a book which was as shabby as this one.
It's shabbiness was understandable because it was taken out of a public library.
As said above, this book was taken from a public library.
So unwillingly I took up the book.
The first couple of pages proved me right.
Mr MacLean has got a unique way of writing the thoughts going on through his character's mind.
But, with his character.
So it was with a strong sense of nostalgia that I picked up one of the few books by him I hadn’t read, Puppet on a Chain.I was disappointed.One disappointment was the main character, Major Sherman, an INTERPOL agent investigating narcotics trafficking in Amsterdam.
But if Sherman has spent two years trying to crack this operation, I want to see the scourge that heroin is, in detail, not have one strung out junkie paraded out of the character rolls and then have me believe that Sherman is risking his life for that.Sherman identifies the antagonists in the book as “a brilliantly directed criminal organization,” yet, given three opportunities to kill him, these brilliant criminals fail to carry it out.
Well...Right now I'm in the process of re-reading my small collection of MacLean's books.
This time it was similar, except the story, that I liked then, and that didn't seem so good now.To be honest, by the end I felt that it would be a very short story if it wasn't for these cartoon villain-ish types of bad guys.
Normally, a character like Paul Sherman would quickly find himself in a canal with a bullet hole in the back of the head and instead the bad guys play cat and mouse with him.
When the whole thing was explained at the end, that was interesting in an intellectual way, but not exactly satisfying.
The novel is in first person, so it could just be that this particular character was meant to feel that way, but it certainly didn't help me feel for him.
On the other hand, the book has its funny moments - the main character is always letting others take his gun from him (mostly because he screws up) and he can be endearingly forward about his faults, which include sometimes not being very good at his job.
This is another MacLean I have elected to re-read after forty years. My primary memories are the puppet images and the rather gristly murder of one character who is pitchforked to death. Being largely a police procedural and themed on drugs, I was curious to see if this story would hold up or seem dated. While it does not equal MacLean's spy thrillers of the late 1960s, the story still works. In many ways it is very typical MacLean. It is also worth reading.
Puppet On A Chain is an example of one of MacLean's later efforts. It's not a great entry. Too much sarcasm (which for me is a lot). Many of the scenes where the protagonist is in danger, just don't come across as such. It was later made into a movie. Can't comment on that.Reviewed by, David Feeney, author; Terror on the high seas
I liked this book overall. It contains one of Alistair Maclean's iconic scenes (the pitchfork scene, not to spoil it too much), but some of the techniques MacLean uses to maintain suspense are annoying. In this particular book, the overt withholding of critical information from the reader is used overmuch. Still fun, though.
British Interpol agent Major Paul Sherman bulldozes through Amsterdam in his quest to uncover major drug dealers. That he manages to survive his headlong rushes into danger is more luck than pluck. The body count is high and the villain predictable. Not among MacLean’s best, but the description of the ravages of heroin use provide gritty realism to an otherwise mediocre bit of action-escapism.
The European spy thriller without computers or cell phones. Phone booths, sending coded messages, attention to detail and working by your wits are tools from the past. MacLean allows Major Paul Sherman to use these tools to combat the narcotics trade and it's associated murders in the streets of Amsterdam.
One of Macleans best stories which is remorseless in its plot line. He was prolific but few of his stories are as good as this. The characters are not wholly beleivable but the plotline is. A great relief read, which will pass the time on a plane or beach trip.
I really liked this Maclean book but can't remember why.
Много шум за нищо ... Не обичам криминалета, но тази книга определено си е популярна и доста хвалена, по тази причина бях изненадана колко клиширана, наивна и скучна е.
Load of old pish. But with flashes of Maclean's genius.
This was creepier than most of his books that I've read, but it was still really good. Very dark, scary characters. The ending was a bit weird, but not completely unexpected.
Deze gebeurtenis is bepalend voor de rest van de reis en zoektocht van Sherman.Het boek begint meteen spectaculair met veel actie.
Daarnaast weet Alistair ervoor te zorgen dat ik, als lezer, meteen geïntroduceerd wordt aan de hoofdpersoon en de "hulpjes".
Herkenning in een boek vind ik persoonlijk altijd erg leuk.Wat mij ook opvalt is dat ik veel moeite heb met het neerleggen van het verhaal.
Normaal gesproken is het begin van een verhaal een introductie, maar MacLean weet ervoor te zorgen dat men meteen gefascineerd raakt door het verhaal.
One of my complaints about the book is, after years on the case -- from afar -- and after the Dutch have done nothing, in one to two days, Sherman finds the drugs, the source, the dealers, everything.
(This book was written in the 1960s....) After treating his female assistants like annoying children the whole way through the book, at the very end, he all of a sudden wants to marry one of them.
I wanted to like him.
It is fast paced and entertaining, yes, but just not very believable, and that knocks it down a star for me.
In these days of Internet and high technology, it’s a pleasant change to read a spy thriller, without all these complexities – thankfully no use of super-computers or cell phones, but what is referred to as ‘old school’ tactics, where the hero had no organisation or back-up (other than a pair of dumb assistants, who needed everything to be spelled-out).
Although they catch him fairly easy, they then leave him alive (?)– to deal with later (rather unbelievable).Although his assistant Maggie is quickly, though rather viciously, disposed off, but they don’t seem to give him the same treatment.
You hope the good guys win, but you don't really know.The title, 'Puppet on a Chain', refers predominately to the poor drug addicts who are hooked on heroin, dancing to it's effects and are yanked along by the pushers and suppliers.
The human body gets reduced to the highs and lows of the drug and they are always dancing to it's effects.
The drug addicted were like puppets on a chain "dancing to the tune of heroin", Alistair MacLean.
They ended just dancing like puppets to the tune of their drugs.
Not one of his better books but still highly entertaining. Worth the read.
It was over 25 years ago when I first read that book in my language Turkish and I had fond memories.
The grizzly and strange scenes of murder were still vivid in my mind.
So when I saw it in a bookstore in Paris two years ago I bought it again and read it in the original language it was written.
I was a bit disappointed.
The first person viewpoint feels a bit forced in some places.
In other words some scenes in the plot seems to be planned that way just to make sure our hero sees the action.
A fast fun exciting read - and a good way to spend a three hour flight.Of course it isn't realistic.
Of course it could never happen like that.
Rather like Fleming's Bond books, it was exciting escapism for the sixties and seventies.
It took me back to watching the film in a double bill with When Eight Bells Toll at 13.
This was the darker and more violent film and book.
The film has the famous boat chase, which wouldn't work well on paper but the book has a greater sense of menace.
Not bad, but not great. Interpol agent Paul Sherman defends on Amsterdam with a couple of twenty-something, mini-skirted cuties and one of them gets killed. It's never quite clear why Interpol, an agency that in reality does not actually pursue malefactors, hires young girls with no ah, completely visible skills.Not a bad plot line if the characters were more believable. He's done much better.
If it wasn't for the fact that the story takes a rather long time to get to the point and there seems to be a lot of extraneous information between here and there, this would probably be five stars. I almost gave up on it several times. Obviously not my favorite MacLean novel, but it's good if you can hang in there and read it all. And when you get closer to the end, some of the extraneous stuff begins to make sense and weave into the plot. Not a book for those with a lack of patience.
