https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40304.The_Worthing_Saga
Then the somek would allow that person to pass through time without aging, and then, perhaps even live for decades, hundreds, maybe even thousands of years while those around him not taking somek would live a normal and short life.Dieter: So much sleeping, so many hours und days und weeks, months und years of sleeping, how do your readers survive such narrative?Card: Well … I don’t write about the sleeping, it is just a factor of the book, I was exploring the alienation of the results of the lust for long life, when in fact the price of the longevity is a separation from friends and family and all that they have known and held dear.Dieter: (yawns dramatically) You have disturbed me almost to the point of insanity...There.
It was rather long, but full of interesting ideas about humanity.
Ammortality & pure safety are examined & found wanting.
Then I listened to a couple of other books.
Now, 20May, I'm listening to the next book which is short stories.
The first book were short stories about Capital, the other about Worthing farm & its folks.
Several of the stories were alluded to or told in short form in the novel which was written afterward.
I didn't like those as much, but they were interesting.All in all, I liked it.
It was longer than I wanted, so I'm glad I took a break.
It is almost as if Orson Scott Card wrote segments of this book between playing marathon sessions of Civilization and/or SimCity.Problem 3: The inane, boring frame story -- which was actually just a device for OSC to be able to tie all of these barely related short stories together into one steaming collection of manure.
And in between these tasks he has dreams, which are actually the short stories OSC is collecting into a "saga," in what I am sure he thinks is a clever manner.Problem 4: The coolest character found in the entire book, Abner Doon, is given so precious little time and attention.
"The Day of Pain" begins on the day when the "loving God" realized that it was a horrible mistake to have taken away the peoples' suffering, and thereby have also removed their ability to experience real joy and real growth.
If we have no pain, we cannot experience real joy.
There is no real progress of mankind if mankind is not left to struggle with failure, success, pain, healing, sorrow, joy, hate and love.
Doon wants to destroy the world, and he sends Jason and some colonists off to found a new world way off in space.There are really three stories at play: 1) the world before Jason is sent away, on the planet Capitol, 2) Jason's colonized world, which is eventually called Worthing, and 3) another unnamed world, in a town called Flat Harbor, where Jason comes after everything is done, and the above two stories are told via flashback.It's kind of convoluted, but somehow it made perfect sense to me, even as a teenager.
Instead of trying to type up a plot summary, I'll discuss some of the wonderful themes and devices used in the book.
I find that many people tend to overlook the dystopic theme of the story, but I think the idea works almost better then your normal 1984, Brave New World or We. Instead of an evil or corrupt dystopia, or a dystopia founded on the loss of human emotions, The Worthing Saga discusses a dystopia founded on the loss of pain.
While it may sound great to live without pain, after reading this book you'll understand why its such a dreadful idea to some of the books characters.
The first book basically he has ever written, which provided the foundation for all the other books he has ever wrote since.
I read this book wondering what one thing had to do with another and when I got to the end, it all tied up, it all made complete sense and fit so well together and left me with a very satisfied and amazed feeling.
I also began to wonder why I was being introduced to all these societies, and then, at the end it all came together in one Big Bang, it all made sense, they all intertwined within each other in an amazing way, a way that I never even thought of.
Mormons in space. I think. I really know nothing about the The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. A friend of mine recommended the book, and I read it, but I was seriously underwhelmed.
I've only begun reading Card this past year, and the strength of his stories amazes me.
It shows us a future in which the universe has stagnated- humanity has reached a point where we have populated the known universe, created a majority of peace, and have learned to slow the aging process.
But the Worthing Saga is mainly a story about what happens next; why pain is necessary, why living is necessary, and given the space to grow- what is the true mettle of man?The short stories created while developing the novel over the years, are added to the back of the novel, unedited, for reading.
This is one of Card's early novels.
It started as a handful of short stories set in the world of Capitol.
The last part of the book is the earlier short stories.
And those stories actually make more sense having read the full tale of Jason Worthing.
Jason's story is very interesting.
Jason's ship encounters a hostile enemy that damages the holds where people are stored; people sleeping on somec.
While he takes decade naps in the starship, the children of Jason raise the "ice people" from the ship.
So how do Abner and Jason deal with their power?
As a writer – just reading this book you learn so much abut the writing process and how to see other characters through one character’s eyes.
Not only that, he also picked a current time, and wove the telling of the ancient story within the current storyline in an excellent manner.Also, a bit Tolkeinish – he kept his originals of some of the stories of characters and included expanded versions of their stories as separate stories at the end of the book.
Card goes back to some of his first science fiction writing and melds the early tales into a compelling saga.
Jason Worthing, blue-eyed mind reader, is sent from Capitol on a colony ship.
This book collects stories of Jason's childhood and Jason's children both before they leave Capitol and after, as well as a time far, far into the future when Jason returns to have his tale written.I had read a lot of the stories that are collected into this book.
It was like I was reading them for the first time, even though I already knew what happened.
I expected a lot from the author of "Enders game", and I was not disappointed.
The theme of a savior figure that the people don't understand or appreciate is woven throughout this story just like in Enders game.
It made me think about how we believe in and treat God. There are so many different layers to this book, from the simple medieval world where Lared lives to the cold world of the Capitol, where billions of people live in massive metal structures that are all connected.
Card in his master storytelling wove everything together into an interesting, if not bizarre, saga.
It was as if an ancient and comfortable presence left them, one that they had never noticed until it was gone, and no one knew what to make of it at first, though all knew at once that something had changed deep at the heart of the world.Premise/plot: Imagine living in a world where there is no pain, no suffering, no grief, no fear, no anger, no violence, no injury.
It is not his place to understand everything, just to write it down as it's been given to him.Lared and his village provide the framework for the stories that Jason and Justice share.
Nope nopity nope! I just can't. I got this book from someone who told me she "found it absolutely fascinating". For this reason, I forced myself to keep reading until I finally let myself give up after Chapter 7. This is only the second book I've ever given up on. I can't put my finger on exactly why I was disliking this book so much. I just know for 155 pages I didn't like the book for a second so I gave myself permission to abandon it.
It is told with gallons of truth, and a direct bluntness that is refreshing to the victimized psyche we have trended toward in Western culture for decades.The story hints at puncturing human dissatisfaction with God and suffering for the almost the entire book, and slams everything home in one fell swoop at the end which should mind-blow every reader out of their staus-quo-like endless loop of wondering, "Why do bad things happen?"Pain makes you happy for pleasure.
Removal of the pain is the removal of yourself.Be prepared for either a rude awakening or a profound enlightenment.Or both.
Note: My audiobook review is at the end of this review.Orson Scott Card never ceases to amaze me in the questions he tackles in his writing.
In The Worthing Chronicle, Jason Worthing comes to a small village where Lared resides and asks him to write his story.
As Lared writes we learn of two worlds - Capitol and Worthing.
If you're into this type of thing, it's definitely worth a read.Audiobook ReviewThe audiobook version was narrated by Scott Brick.
He is one of my favorite audiobook narrators and he did not disappoint in his reading of The Worthing Saga.
A collection of linked short stories, set in two different time zones and places, yet with a thread that connects them both.What makes this book so special to me is that it attempts to answer the riddle of Joy and Pain, by exploring what life might be without pain, and whether it would even be worth living.The feeling that without pain we have something precious taken away from us, a certain loss of our own claim to humanity, but really only by reading the stories could someone understand what I'm trying to say.I have read this book quite a few times over the years, and it never fails to move me, to ask me to look deeply inside myself to at least feel for the answers we can never really know in any empirical sense.
But I've come to accept it, recognising even the greatest author is just a fallible human being like all the rest of us.I could not recommend this book more highly.
La Saga de Worthing incluye, además de "La Crónica de Worthing", los "Cuentos de Capitol" y "Cuentos del Bosque de Aguas".Los "Cuentos de Capitol" me resultaron, en general, más interesantes, al girar en torno al somec y a la distorsión de la droga en el día a día de los habitantes de Capitol.
En los "Cuentos del Bosque de las Aguas" se habla de la Granja de Worthing y de algunos personajes que vimos pasar en la Crónica...
My favorite OSC book.
OSC really shows his Mormon roots in this tale without hitting the reader in the face with morality.
He uses the setting of the book to explore the relationship of Justice and Mercy.
In the Abrahamic religions, the idea of sin and reconciliation are applied as the balance between Justice and Mercy in Mormonism.
If a judge forgives a criminal mercy is served but not justice, etc.
OSC also blends in powerful imagery about the purpose of suffering and the need for opposition in all things.
I jumped into this blind. I haven't read much Orson Scott Card and this showed up in my library's limited audiobook selection. I wish I had better understood that the Saga is a collection of three separate books with three separate perspectives. Without understanding that, the first transition three me for a loop. I'm left pondering what makes a successful civilization, what we can do to protect our communities from corruption, and how far privilege can spiral into out of control power.
Pretty much my dream book. This book details what would happen if you crash landed on a different planet and had to remake civilization. A very very interesting read. The main character goes into cryo so he is able to witness the world evolve over thousands of years. This book gripped and captivated me, a pure 5 star rating.
OCS is a wonderful writer. His stories are about people so they continue to hold up over time. This story is a great example of that. This story reminds me of why it's not good for people to have everything they want all the time. Loved it.
Uncertain when read. Before 2003.
A book about near immortality and its consequences. Ideas somewhat reminiscent of Asimov's Naked Sun, but explored in a way that only Card could pull off. Excellent!
Best Card book that I've read so far.
All the grievances in every nation were joined now with the anger of the aristocracy -- all classes acted at once, and Italy was undone, the empire fragmented, the armies in mutiny.p. 97 No, but you'd be amazed at how often people who have no choice act as if they had one, and lose everything because they could not bear to do what had to be done."P.
WIthout his father's beatings all his life, without the face of his father haloed in the flames, without his wife's adultery and the deaths of Bessa, Dallat, and Cammar -- yes, without the touch of Cammar's fingers as he leapt and fell, what would there be in Hoom to make you love him?
You love Hoom because of what he did in the face of pain.
The Worthing Saga is a loose and non-linear collection of a series of novellas and short stories centering around the rise and fall of a rich planet named Capitol, and the flight from it of Jason Worthing, who can read minds.
The stories span millennia, with generations rising and falling.
Orson Scott Card is ...difficult.
The women here are generally beautiful and fundamentally broken, where they impinge on the story at all.
People are very good/simple folks or very bad/rich/powerful, by and large.
Card's a decent writer and storyteller, as always.
But his view of how the world works and who people caused a lot of eye-rolling.
This is probably my current favorite book.
The story is almost biblical and Orson Scott Card drew inspiration from the Book of Mormon.
Worthing decides to wake them up two at a time and raise them until they are mentally developed enough for the next batch.
He entrusts them with waking the rest of the passengers and raising them as he had.
He then goes into cryogenic stasis as well to check back on them every few decades, and then centuries as their civilization grows.
Any lover of sci-fi should read this book.
