https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99736.The_Little_Island
I was so confused. The cover says Golden MacDonald and the Title page says it's Margaret Wise Brown and I found out that Margaret wrote this as Golden. Mystery solved. Wow.I loved the illustrations here and I like the story. We learn the history of this island and the animals and plants that live on it. Then a small kitten comes and learns that the island is connected to the land even though it surrounded by water. A simple story about an island told in a lovely way.The kids liked this book too.
Beautiful book for small children.

I really loved the beginning and ending of this book--a loving look at a little island as if told by a poet and naturalist.
The mid-section with the little kitten that comes to the island is just too didactic and out-of-place for me, though.
The bit about the kitty being an island--yet the island being connected to the world--and about the meaning of faith--just don't seem to fit the rest of the story and seemed, dare I say it, just a bit odd.
Of course, I appreciate the underlying message it just felt like two different stories and was a bit, um, odd.
I recently reread that and several other of her books.
Perhaps because it has no associations with my childhood I looked at it a bit more critically and thought: Brown is really kind of surreal.Don't get me wrong, that is not a complaint!
I enjoy surrealism, especially in picture books.
It was just a bit unexpected.
The first half of the book goes along very peacefully detailing the animals and plants on a little island.
It could be a non-fiction book about wildlife.
And then, with the abruptness of dreams, a kitten arrives in a boat and starts talking to the island.
The Little Island is alone in a sea of crystal blue water, but enjoys the change of seasons. A little cat visits the island and learns something about nature. Flowers bloom, animals molt or have babies, birds migrate, and fruit ripens. Margaret Wise Brown (best known perhaps for  ) wrote this book under the pen name of Golden MacDonald. It’s a very nice story that gives a young child an introduction to the natural world. Leonard Weisgard’s illustrations are beautifully rendered.
This started out as a pleasant book with lovely flora and fauna illustrations, but then a cat visits the island and I thought the text became a little weird; it just sort of stopped the rhythm and flow of the story. It did get back on track, though and ended well.
1947 Caldecott AwardMargaret Wise Brown does a good job of showing the passing of the seasons on a small island surrounded by ocean. While I am not a great fan of Leonard Weisgard's artwork, he does faithfully depict in his illustrations what the text says. The colors are quite muted, and some of the side illustrations are in shades of gray, brown and black. This is a quiet little book, and nothing much happens, except that the kitten learns that the island is connected to land far underneath the ocean.
At times it feels as though you are flipping through a nature book, one of my favorite illustrations in the entire story is the pair of kingfishers, beautifully illustrated as though right out of an Audubon bird book.
I personally like the kitten part and think it offers some different perspectives for young readers to think about; such as what it means to be a part of something (i.e. the world), and the idea of having faith in something.
Originally published in 1946, The Little Island can rightly be called a classic, and many young readers will certainly enjoy it just as much today as those generations before them did.
I had never heard of this book, until I picked it up for my Caldecott Challenge.
It won the 1947 Caldecott Award.
In this book, the reader learns about a little island, as told by the island itself.
The little island goes through all four seasons, as the reader observes how the the plant and animal life on the island changes as the year progresses.
It is interesting to note that Leonard Weisgard, who illustrated this book, also illustrated a Caldecott honor award winner of the same year "Rain Drop Splash".
I think this book might be my new favorite of Margaret Wise Brown's.
A perfect marriage of text and illustrations.Clouds passed over itFish swam around itAnd the fog came in from the seaand hid the little Islandin a soft wet shadow.Golden MacDonald (Margaret Wise Brown) acquaints us with all the flora and fauna of the little island, including underwater, as the four seasons pass.
One day a kitten on a sailboat visits the island, the island explains itself to the kitten with help from a fish, and the kitten sails away again.Text and grayscale illustrations are on the left side of the page, Leonard Weisgard's color illustrations are on the right hand side.
Weisgard's art always takes me to my happy place.
It really wouldn't be a Margaret Wise Brown book without a bit of surrealistic weirdness. Loved the haiku-like descriptions of life on the island and the gorgeous illustrations. The weird tangents somehow make this book even more appealing to me--like a kid giving a report on island life then veering into a fantasy tale of islands and kitties conversing. I kind of love it.
An island so mysterious, you almost need a laboratory under a church in Los Angeles to determine where it is. (view spoiler)[The metaphysical conversation between the cat and the island about connectedness was fantastic. Tons better than someone turning a wheel, the island moving through time and space, or other such nonsense. (hide spoiler)]
I have always loved anything illustrated by Leonard Weisgard, and this book is no exception. I love the rich, deep colors he uses in his paintings, and the way he fills entire pages, with no white space leftover. The story is one of Margaret Wise Brown’s stranger stories, especially at the end, but I think it shares an important message about individuality and interconnectedness.
In The Little Island, the Caldecott-award-winning book authored by Margaret Wise Brown, a little Island speaks to a black Kitten, and tells the Kitten that it, too, is connected to the earth, down under the sea.
The Kitten can only visit the Island via boat, and returns to the mainland after spending some time with the Island and its creatures.
Ms. Brown's book visits the Island in spring, summer, autumn, and winter, in fair weather and foul.
She describes the plants growing on the island and the animals that live or visit there, and makes my heart ache with the beauty of it all.
Book summary: This book was about a little island, and all that goes on around the island.
A kitten visits the island and learns this secret that all land is one land under the sea.
Grade level: K-2Appropriate classroom use: This book talks about land and animals so it would fit around those subjects.
In class we could do some activities on how islands are still land.
Whole class use: I would read this book aloud to the classroom.
It is just a nice tranquil book about a little island.
I must have been a very, very strange child.
I must be a very, very strange adult because I love this book.
because I feel totally the opposite.I was captivated by this book as a child, and still as an adult the pictures and simple language really intrigue me.
The colors are beautiful, and the words are very atmospheric and philosophical, it kind of gives you a sense of wonder as you hear them.
I just remember hearing it as a child, and imagining myself on this mysterious little island.It does have an odd diversion in the middle, where the cat visits the island--it's weird, but kind of cool.
This started out with good descriptions of the flora and fauna of the island. Then in the middle of the book the kitten enters the picture and the flow of the writing just stops and stutters along. The cat made the story worse. I hate to say bad things about an award winning book, but it just doesn't go well because this cat shows up and the island starts explaining itself to this "outsider". I don't know, I didn't like how this book was written. It would have been better off without the kitten. 3 stars.
Illustrated by Leonard Weisgard using gouache. Winner of the 1947 Caldecott Medal. I must say, I really didn't like this book. I found the text awkward and with a strange rhythm and though at first I liked the illustrations, as soon as the cat appeared I found them awkward too. The book follows the life of an island and even touches on the philosophical. I just didn't like it at all.
The sweet little book by Margaret Wise Brown and Leonard Weisguard shows the evolution of how an island came to be; the life it gave. Fantastic starter of geography lessons for young readers. Excellent! Loved it.
First of all, lovely pictures. I liked how this book followed the seasons and just painted a word-picture of the little island. But the part with the cat being an island was just weird. I think I would have liked it better if people (and cats) had not come to the island.
On each page you see different plants and animals depending on the season.
Within the pictures the illustrator uses coloring to reinforce the text.
Depending on the season the coloring of the pictures changed.
During the springtime on the island the picture had lots of greens and blues.
Then when a storm hit  the picture was covered in dark colors, this identify that the cold weather is coming and winter is soon approaching.
The colors brought the pages to life and pulled my attention in the book.
Also, the illustrations were realistic and allowed me to identify with my own experience of the different seasons.
Picturesque views of a tiny island (based on the animals, I'm guessing off the New England coast) with a short narrative that is melodic. The addition of the kitten is a bit strange, but overall the book is a short and sweet look at life on a small "uninhabited" island as the seasons progress. This book was selected as one of the books for the April 2014 - Quarterly Caldecott discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
I found this book strange and confusing.
It was written back in the 1940's.
The author did a wonderful job with word choice.
The illustrations look like they were painted with watercolor.
These illustrations were my favorite part because they complimented the writing and amplified to books classic charm.
I didn't completely understand what the author's message was and will have to read it a couple more times to make sure I didn't miss anything.
Although I gave this book a 3 star rating, I appreciate that it is a classic award winning book.
Favorite Illustration: I loved all of the pictures of the animal and plant life on the island.
My favorite is most likely the King Fisher birds, however.There is a little island in the middle of the sea.
I loved the island and the illustrations and animals.
The part with the cat in the middle, though, was really weird and didn't fit at all with the rest of the book.
It's like somebody told Brown that the book had to have some didactic meaning other than a little island and it's season, so she just threw it in there.
The opening to the story was interesting, as it introduces you to various animals and bugs.
You see the seasons change on the island as well.The middle section was very odd though.
A kitty comes and has a dialogue with the island - about being part of the big world and of faith.
It felt rather abstract and as if I had suddenly turned the page into another book.**Like my reviews?
I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too.
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
Odd. There are two books with the same title listed as having won the Caldecott this year, but they are written by different authors ~ Golden MacDonald and Margaret Wiess Brown. Have I been looking at the screen too long? I read the Golden MacDonald version. It read at first like a nature based picture book, and then a kitten came along and religious overtones suddenly presented themselves. Mixed feelings and messages.
• 1947 Caldecott Winner •I like the illustrations - the paintings are beautiful. The text is a little dry, and halfway through the story a kitten randomly shows up and becomes the main focus of the narrative. The kitten just didn’t fit in with the beginning and ending of the story. Other than that, this is a decent little book but it felt a bit like two books in one. Materials used: unlistedTypeface used: unlisted
This 1947 Caldecott Medal book is lyrical and charming. The illustrations pull the reader into the story.The beauty lies in the simple tale of an island and the changes that occur during the seasons.Merged review:This 1947 Caldecott Medal book is lyrical and charming. The illustrations pull the reader into the story.The beauty lies in the simple tale of an island and the changes that occur during the seasons.
I expected to like this book, but I didn't. There's not really a storyline; it's basically a description of an island. I wish the pictures correlated with the cover art a little better. The kitten is an odd addition. Maybe, if a child is familiar with a small island, they would enjoy this. My favorite illustration is of two kingfishers. The rest of the images are just okay.
