https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/120711.Outside_Over_There
this is the only thing my summer class was useful for: it tipped me off that this book existed.
greg gave me this one years ago, so he is off the hook: http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19...
outside over there is terrifically creepy, and it may not have the purple spandex-clad david bowie that really makes labyrinth shine as a filmic masterwork, but maybe sendak will make it up to me with where the wild things are.
or maybe he will just make me cry, because every time i see that trailer, i leak.
I really like this book.
This is a book of art.
The problem with the stunning art is the story.
I can't let her read this story of people climbing in a window and stealing away a child.
This is a horror story for children.
But the art is out of this world beautiful and safe.
It's a mix of horror and beauty.
I actually liked the story knowing the kidnappers were goblins, but I won't read this to the kids.
I wouldn't be allowed to read more books to them.Wow, such a powerful story.
I don't know why this lovely book has been challenged and/or banned.
In fact, so beautiful and appealing that it was a Caldecott Honor Book in 1982 (yay Maurice Sendak!!!!)I LOVED reading this book to my children when they were smaller.
Recently I gave them each their own copy for their Hope(less) Chests, so that they can read it to their own children.My children are all in therapy and take strong psychiatric medicines due to their fear of being exchanged by goblins for an ice changling and being carried away.
I am positive that the reading of this book in their formative years had nothing whatsoever to do with that, however.By the way, I am drugged and in therapy too.
When she safely returns home with the baby, her mother reads a letter from her father asking her to watch over her baby sister “which is just what Ida did.”For me, this book invited so many questions.
Ida’s name is strikingly similarly to Id. Do all the characters of the dream reflect the thoughts and feelings of the dreamer?Sendak has said that the three children’s book (Outside Over There, Where the Wild Things Are and In the Night Kitchen) are part of a trilogy.
She was mesmerized and when we finished she turned back to the page where the goblins are stealing the baby and asked me to read it again.
She takes care of her baby sister while Papa is at sea (and Mama sits under the arbor, in a catatonic state).
Ida puts on her cloak and takes her horn and goes to find her sister, hidden among goblins in a goblin wedding.
Here is Ida in a passion, eyes wide, on her tip-toes and her fist up in rage; here is Ida tumbling backwards out her window, through the mass of sunflowers grown by the tune of her wonder-horn, falling 'outside over there'.
Ida must be taught by her father's song (coming on from off the sea) where to search for the baby.
I confess the only reason I gave Where the Wild Things Are four stars is because over the years, as an adolescent and as an adult, I’ve read it to many children, and their enthusiasm has been contagious.
If I’d read it in a void I’d have also given it two stars only.I think I’d have appreciated the illustrations in this book much more if the story had been different.This story was way too creepy for me.I think I’ll look for some children who want me to read this to them or who already know this book to possibly change my perspective.
Dr. Mr. Sendak, Please seek therapy elsewhere and stop scaring the hell out of me!
(Her baby brother, however, she was not concerned about for some reason.) The next day she spent an hour pretending to rescue her "babies" from the goblins.
I don't think I want to encourage her to dwell on goblins, however, so back to the library this one has gone...I'm not generally one to believe in kid gloves when it comes to children's literature...but this was just too creepy for a young child.
On the other hand, I often think back on the books that fascinated me as a child, and their creepiness and grimness, and I think perhaps we lose something in not allowing children to contemplate and confront their deepest fears...so perhaps I will check it out again after all.
This deceptively simple mythopoetic tale of a sister rescuing a baby from the goblins is powerful and disturbing in the manner of dreams.

What a strange book.This Sendak book inspired the movie "Labyrinth". I guess it would be perfect for bedtime if you want the kids to have nightmares :)
“Outside Over There” is a Caldecott Honor Book from the creative mind of Maurice Sendak about how a young girl named Ida must save her sister from a band of goblins.
“Outside Over There” may have some scary images and the theme of child kidnapping, but it is still an excellent book full of adventure that many children will love.
I would recommend this book to children ages five and up because the images of the goblins and the theme of child kidnapping might scare smaller children.
A reader unfamiliar with this picture book is practically implored by Victor LaValle's marvelous The Changeling to rectify this oversight. This dreamy and grotesque fable warns both parents and older siblings of leaving a baby unattended: they will be burgled by goblins and replaced with an icy impostor that will melt and render a bassinet soggy. If this is first flipped through as an adult, then the reflective reader can curse their parents for how profoundly they have failed them once again.

SUMMARYThis is the story of how Ida’s little sister, who can’t hardly be two years old, is snatched up by goblins and taken away to Outside, Over There to be a goblin’s bride.
Sendak’s story here is charming, and the lessons of confronting fears and realizing responsibility, having courage and being brave are all important for children.
Overcoming the goblins that exist in the shadows in our minds, especially as young children, only happens when we are exposed to literature and stories that show us the way, and this book is the map that shows us how to get Outside, Over There, and the guide that tells us how to Overcome.
I had decided that I must have a copy of this when I found it on a list of the "most disturbing children's books of all time." The reason? Goblins steal her baby sister and try to have a goblin wedding with her as the bride . . . And it's the basis for the movie LABYRINTH! You say disturbing, I say, Awesome!Finally got a copy, and it did not disappoint. Aside from the gorgeous art, the story is delightfully strange, and left me not disturbed, but wanting more!
This book fascinated me as a child. In struggling to wrap my brain around the writing style, I recognized it, along with the illustrations and the story itself, as an element of the eerie beauty of the whole. The story line, the illustrations, and the writing style are all creepy and unsettling, yet I could not take my eyes away. It has been years since I read or even thought about this book, but the excerpt from the never-ending book quiz sent chills down my spine anew.
Whether by accident or negligence or a psychic manifestation of Ida's resentment, the baby is stolen away by goblins, and Ida must don her mother's raincoat and take her wonderhorn, embarking on a journey to save her sister.The night journey, the absent parents, the monsters which must be mastered, will all remind the reader of both Where the Wild Things Are and In the Night Kitchen, and in fact Sendak considered Outside over There the third book in a trilogy with these other two.I was in high school by time Outside over There was published, so it doesn't really resonate with me the way much of Sendak's work that I grew up with does.
I'm a huge fan of Where the Wild Things Are, but Outside Over There lacks an appeal to children in its text and storyline.
I think the book was probably intended for a second or third grader, but the text and word choice is a bit much for someone of that age.
He uses soft colors and lots of them, which makes the pictures very aesthetically appealing.
The attention to detail in the pictures makes it easy for a child to understand what is happening in the story even if you were to take away the text.
I rarely do a review on childrens books but I felt it necessary to write one on this book.
Firstly, the pictures are revolting - they look like dead babies - when you're reading it to a pre-schooler, this is something that needs addressing as young people use visual clues to understand the text, and the illustrations in this book scared my son.
Secondly, the writing is very poor - particularly disappointing when it's written by a world renowned author such as Maurice Sendak.
Thirdly, the story is horrible - it's a children's book for crying out loud.
What an awful story for a child to be exposed to.
This is a freaky childrens book wherein the baby is stolen by goblins who want to make the baby a goblin bride.
Big sister rescues baby, finding out the goblins look like babies too except they wear cloaks.
The whole time mom is depressed because dad is a sailor away at sea.
Mom sits on a bench for the duration of the story, not realizing that her baby was stolen or that big sister saved her.
Since Daddy is gone at sea, Big Sister has lots of responsibilities resting on her shoulders as she cares for baby and depressed mother.
Excuse my lack of eloquence when I say the first thing that I thought while reading: "WHOA." This is a dark, nightmarish story, in which the late, SO-great Sendak specialized.
The story of "Outside Over There' is very simply written, with a sentence or less per page.
The foliage looks Wild Things-esque, but the German Shepard is so intricately shaded it looks like it was cut and pasted into the book.
I discovered this story after Sendak died, when a Portland illustrator I admire said that this was one of the most influential books in her life.
Some people think this book is super creepy, and I guess it kind of is, but we like it anyway.
Big sister Ida has to rescue her little sister from the goblins who have kidnapped her (and they leave an ice baby in her place).
The goblins look like little children themselves, and Ida plays her horn until they dance themselves into a stream and..well...you know.
But both my kids have really liked it.
And I remember really liking it too, as a kid.
So I'd only recommend it to people who like different kinds of children's books and one with a spooky element -because Curious George this ain't.
Sendak's most puzzling and perhaps most brilliant picture book plays complex allegorical games with sibling rivalry and Oedipal tensions, as Ida (note that her name contains "id") loses her sister to goblins, who replace the baby with a changeling ice baby.
Ida must engage, superficially, in a fairly typical quest-type narrative to regain the lost sister, but in doing so she assumes disturbing associations with her mother.
Probably irreducible to a single meaning, this book is provocative every time I read it, and the page spread when Ida catches up to the goblins remains one of the most memorable and creepy moments (for me) in all literature.
With In the Night Kitchen, among my favorite children's books. Gorgeously illustrated, the story of how Ida loses, then finds and rescues, her baby sister from the clutches of goblins, while her mother pines for their father at sea, has all the qualities of a dream. Stunning, elusive, epic, Sendak doesn't shy away from showing a child's deepest fears, and revealing her deepest strengths, and he's not afraid of ambiguity either. If I had all the money in the world, I'd buy all the original artwork and hang it where I could look at it every day.
This book scared the CRAP out of me as a child. Changeling goblins stealing babies? But now I love it because it reminds me of how young my appreciation for messed up books began. But seriously, this was nightmare fuel.

We've read all of the Caldecott Medal-winning books, so now we're working our way through the Caldecott Honor (May 2018 update: I guess they are now designated as Caldecott Award Nominees) books.
I have to admit that I've never been a huge fan of the late Maurice Sendak's books.
And once again, I feel the same way about this book.
Overall, it was a good book, but not great.This book was selected as one of the books for the March 2018 - Boston Globe-Horn Book Award Picture Book Winners 1975-1982 discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
Maybe she was mystified by the story--Young Ida is jealous of her baby sister; she must help care for the baby while her dad's away; cloaked goblins steal the baby while Ida is looking the other direction; the goblins leave an ice sculpted changeling in the baby's place; Ida gets angry and goes to reclaim the baby; Ida overcomes distraction to take her sister back from the goblins who look exactly like the baby; Ida comes to understand that helping her mom take care of the baby is an important task.
Not surprisingly with Sendak, this somewhat creepy story includes beautiful illustrations, Grimm-like danger for children, and a happy ending.
The kidnapping of the Lindbergh baby!Sendak teaches us that life may be scary at times, but there's safety and love, too.
Yet another children's book recommended for adults.
This seems to be a book that most people either love or hate (based on the reviews I just skimmed.).
Hate may be too strong a word for my reaction, but I certainly didn't enjoy it.
The father is away at sea, the mom depressed (in the arbor is what the text says), and Ida is watching her baby sister.
Ida is described as making a serious mistake, never watching, foolish and sly.
She is entertaining her baby sister and sets off alone to try to find her when the goblins snatch her.
So I don't like the way Ida is portrayed.
