https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/98405.Born_in_Shame
What an awesome conclusion to the series! I think this might even be my favorite of the series, but then Born of Ice was excellent too.Murphy was a fantastic, yummy, dreamy, wonderful hero that I couldn't get enough of and if Shannon was a little cold, she had reasons for acting this way. Besides, I loved watching the previous couples appearing in this one, without ever stealing the show. Highly recommended.
Okay, I am with everybody on the "Shannon was just an idiot." But Murphy Muldoon was worth it and it was such a nice final touch to the end of the Concannon sisters series as Maggie and Brianna come face to face with their half sister Shannon.
There was a bit more magic and mysticism and even some ancient stones compared to the first two books in the series.
But Nora Roberts has a tendency to dabble in all that and I didn't find it detracted too much from what has been overall an interesting series.
I just finished rereading this series for the third or fourth time and I'd just like to write myself a quick note:Dear Future Flannery,Stop reading after book two.
You like the contemporary romance books of Nora Roberts.
Also, when she writes about paintings in this book, they all seem like Thomas Kinkade paintings.
Of course, sometimes you are an idiot and you probably won't even read this, but if on the off-chance you are, DON'T DO IT!
Read one of the other 100+ Nora Roberts books you like more!Sincerely,Flannery in 2016.
A wonderful conclusion to the series. The romance between Murphy and Shannon was sweet with a little bit of Irish magic, but it was a bit light compared to the first two. I would recommend reading this book only after reading the first two. I don't think this book as a stand-alone explained all of the characters and their relationships to each other well enough to really enjoy it as it was meant to be enjoyed.
This is me while I was reading the whole trilogy... This is a reread and the review is from the first time I read the book but I am not going to change it... I am so sad that this trilogy came to end with this book! It was more difficult to read this book because it had many sad moments but it was as good as the previous two! All the trilogy is set in Ireland but this story gives us the mystical side of this beautiful country.It’s time for Maggie and Brianna to meet their half-sister, Shannon. I
I am so sad that this trilogy came to end with this book!
All the trilogy is set in Ireland but this story gives us the mystical side of this beautiful country.It’s time for Maggie and Brianna to meet their half-sister, Shannon.
It’s not easy for her to accept the truth, but she goes to Ireland and tries to know her sisters.
She’s lost but in this place she’s going to find herself…I have to admit that Shannon is not my favorite sister but after a while I accepted her.
Her trip to Ireland is not just a journey to meet her sisters.
Reading the book further you start liking Shannon more and all the unanswered questions in the family are finally answered.I also loved the conflict that she has with the Concannon sisters' mother and how she stands her own there.
However, on reading this story the second time around I am now smitten with Murphy and like Shannon a lot more, particularly now that I am the same age as her and find it easier to understand how she thinks.
I still love 'Born in Ice' but this last instalment in the trilogy has now become a close second.
This trilogy is my all time favorite series.
When she receives a letter from Brianna, her half-sister, she makes a trip to Ireland where she meets her new family and Murphy, a family friend.
At times, the story tends to drag a bit but all unanswered questions from books 1 and 2 are answered.
Murphy, on the other hand, is my favorite male character in the entire series.
The Shannon/Murphy story at times seemed a tad on the silly side but it came together.
The way everything ties-in in all of the books makes this series my favorite.
The first chapter in Born in Fire (Born In trilogy #1) grabbed me and drew me in to the Irish flavor and culture of the series, but by the time I finished that book, I wasn't sure if I wanted to continue.
It was very much an OK story, but Maggie was difficult to like, so I put the rest of the series on hold until recently.
I'm so glad I continued.
I loved Brianna & Grayson's story in Born in Ice (Born In trilogy #2), but Born in Shame (Born In trilogy #3) was even better - the icing on this family's saga.
I think this book grows on me each time I re-read it.
Murphy is of course the dreamer romantic and yet so loving you can't help but believe him in the immediacy of his feelings.I love the backdrop of Ireland in this series.
This story finally brings some warmth to Maeve and her coldness to her daughters.Of course Maggie and Bri are as lovely as ever.
Murphy and Shannon of course are inevitable.
Shannon's painters heart wars with her practical business head and yet she is ever destined to fall for Murphy's romantic soul.
Her mother is still the same disagreeable self and I'm not sure I believed her mellowing with Shannon's words, to tell the truth I don't even understood why they felt they had to tell her that Shannon was their sister, what she didn't know would not harm at this point and it definitely would have saved them a lot of unpleasantness.
So I think this made for a very agreeable story, not much conflict and I would definitely have preferred for them to get to know each other and only after fall in love instead of having Murphy being struck dumb just by looking at Shannon, but overall his personality more than made up for it.
Her fighting the feelings and discovering her real identity is the book.Things I loved- oh it was so great to see Maggie and Brianna in their HEA with their adoring husbands- the family bonds- Maeve accepting a part of the truth - Murphy as a devoted hero - The dream paradigm mixed with the past lives Things I wasn't a big fan of- to be honest, it was the heroine Shannon.
I completely understand her identity crisis and how the book was about her discovering herself- and though I came around to how she dealt with her sisterly feelings- I wasn't a fond of her behavior with Murphy- though she eventually falls in love.Overall It was a good read.
This rarely happens for me because I read so much, but Nora introduced me to the best of people and the best of traditions.
I may not read for a couple of days and those who know me will be shocked because I am rarely seen without a book in my hand or a book on the fireplace calling my name.
I feel I should mourn the loss of never again getting to read for the first time this "Born In..." series.
If you have never read any of Nora's books please just pick one up.
And amid the lush Irish landscape steeped in mysticism and legend, she discovered the possibility of a love that was meant to be...What a wonderful conclusion to Nora Roberts Born In trilogy of the three Irish sisters.Shannon Bodine’s is told by her mother, just before she dies that she is actually the daughter of an affair she had in Ireland with Thomas Concannon, a married man and before her birth had married the man who Shannon has always believed to be her father.After being contacted by Brianna and Maggie decides, reluctantly and after much heart-searching, to travel to Ireland to meet them.
If it hadn't been for falling in love with Murphy, there's no way I'd have made it through.Here's the thing: Shannon spends the entire freaking book being a complete and utter idiot—which would have been fine if I hadn't felt the whole time that she was only being a complete and utter idiot because Nora Roberts needed her to be in order for the book to last longer than a short story.
It was worth wading through Shannon's idiocy just to spend some time getting to know the man who has been on the fringe of the other two novels.
I didn't read the first of these books with Maggie, as her personality doesn't appeal to me (she's very like me actually, but I don't want to read about fiery prickles like me) but I did read the second in this series, Born in Ice, and enjoyed it very much.
In a lot of ways I enjoyed this book more than Born in Ice. I think I liked the h better in Born in Ice, but I liked the story better in this one.
I'm too logical, and don't think you change just because you find out something like that.
Graphic Artist Shannon Bodine has worked hard to get to the top of the corporate ladder.
But her world is shaken when she learns that she was the result of her mother's secret relationship with Thomas Concannon.
She also learns that she has two sisters living in Ireland who have been searching for her.
Shannon soon travels to County Clare to meet Maggie, Brianna and their families.
But one look at Shannon and he knows he has met the woman of his dreams.
I loved Shannon's relationship with her sisters, especially Maggie.
I also enjoyed Murphy's confidence that Shannon was the woman for him.
I liked this book the best in the Born In trilogy. I think it was because of Murphy; I didn't check the goodreads' character listing for the book, hoping to be surprised with whom Shannon gets paired. I was not disappointed! Roberts throws a little magic in this one. My only wish is that there was an epilogue; I find it a little sad to leave Ireland so soon!
THIS REVIEW MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS!!!I read this one just as fast as the other Born in Trilogy books.
The reason for that is because they are soo good that you don't ever want to put them down for a second in case you forget with where you were reading at.
So I recommened with this trilogy to only put it down for a couple of seconds before going back to reading it or you won't be a happy person like I was at certain points.But other than that this book was such a good read.
I picked up the second book, Born in Ice at the thrift store and read the entire book one night during a blizzard.
I was happy to know that Murphy was going to be the love interest as I just adored him in Born in Ice. I loved that he didn't know what to say or do around Shannon at first.
There was so much heavy stuff in this book between the sisters meeting and Shannon trying to discover where she belonged that it was very distracting.
Shannon seemed to have no clue what she wanted and she was leading the poor man around by his heart which I thought was cruel.
Shannon is a very harsh, disbelieving heroine, and while she's had to be strong in order to deal with the sudden deaths of her parental figures so close together, it is that strength that has her pushing away what she finds in Ireland.
This is the only book in the series that ties the romance to a bit of Irish legend and mysticism, and I felt that the story suffered for it, because it became a distraction and felt unnecessary to the plot.
I enjoyed the other stories in the series more because they didn't have that mysticism in them, they came off as more realistic and strong romances because of it.
Some close friends of mine highly recommended this series of Nora Roberts and I concur... they were really good. Typical steamy, fun romance but wonderful characters that I grew attached to more and more throughout the series. I even grew fond of Maggie from the first book by the time the third rolled around! It was nice to see the continued story lines of the first two main characters as they lived out their marriages.
Absolutely awesome. Usually in a trilogy or series the first book (to me) is always the best. This was by all time the best of the three in this series. I don't usually cry in my books (except for Nicholas Sparks). At the end I was in tears. If this book (or trilogy) was not made a move or tv show (as some of Roberts books are) it SHOULD be. Wonderful job in tying all three books together as well.
I love this trilogy. Period.(P.S. I was searching for some kind of novella after this but damn there's nothing! I am going to miss these characters)
However just after that, she took another leave of absence, most probably without coming back to the office or just for a few days or short weeks, for 2 to 3 weeks that she extended without ever defining its term until what should have been like 1.5 to 2 months.
While Murphy's speech was indeed touching.Another story where the hero is way too good and should have chosen himself someone else.The best thing in this book was to see how Brianna and Grayson had managed to settle themselves, more or less like I imagined, with lots of love from both of them.
I did enjoy the whole series but while I loved the other 2 books this one wasn't as good for me.
I did not care much for the heroine, I found her too hard-headed and even a bit annoying.
The hero, while I loved him in the past books just disappointed me in this one.
I like my romances to develop smoothly and a bit more slower than this one.
I just can't understand nor care for a romance where the hero decides to be in love with the heroine by plain sight, even though he had been having dreads about her his whole life.
i want more from this family!
This rating surprised me a little, because I remembered liking this more.
It's definitely well set up--Shannon spends the entire book developing a love for her homeland, her sisters, her art, Murphy.
And Murphy does offer to go with her instead.
But at the end, it's Shannon saying that everything in her past life didn't make her happy and that she wants to stay and it's a little icky for me.
Which is a shame, because everything else is SO GREAT and I like it almost as much as Born in Fire.
Nora Roberts wraps up her Irish Born trilogy, the stories of three sisters, with the mystical Born in Shame.
Born in Fire was the story of Maggie Concannon, the oldest sister, a tempestuous glass artist.
But, this story closes the circle as Roberts intended when she introduces the American sister, Shannon Bodine.When Tom Concannon died, he was staring out to sea, and whispered a name Maggie never heard before.
But, from the moment Shannon and Murphy meet, they feel as if they've loved, and parted, before.How does Nora Roberts do it?
Roberts beautifully handles sisterhood and family issues, romance and magic, in a powerful conclusion to the series.And Ireland.
To see that both Maggie and Brianna had children of their own now as well as happily married and so in love.
It all warmed my heart to read about them and then Maggie was pregnant again.
Murphy was such a charming man and the way he was sure from the beginning that she was one for him was literally the best.
But well i wont complain more because Nora robert's novels now make me feel so content that i will read every one of her novels.
You are the best Nora <3
Probably closer to 4.5 stars.
I just love Murhpy.
I've loved him since we first met him in Born in Fire.
Easy-going, kind, generous, and loving don't even begin to describe him.
There are so many aspects to this fascinating man.
And when he finally takes the tumble into love, it's instant and unstoppable.
He says it with such quiet conviction, you can't help but believe it absolutely.Watching Shannon start to believe it, and return it was fantastic.
At the end, I was sighing in happiness.
Such a happy way to spend a couple of days with this series.
