https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/143890.Gypsy
Arthur Laurents once said Gypsy Rose Lee was "allergic to the truth", and while that might be true, this was still a fascinating book.
I knew next to nothing about Gypsy Rose Lee - only what was shown in the musical version of this very book, but it got me interested enough to go out of my way to find this book and read it.
Even if the stories are slightly fudged, I get the impression that there is a great deal of truth in the book, and it is indeed a book worth reading.
I am completely blown away by Gypsy Rose Lee's writing ability... She wrote this book herself. It wasn't ghostwritten, and it's phenomenal. If she was as magical onstage as her writing was then I understand why she's famous. I was not expecting to be so blown away by this memoir. If you're interested in her life READ IT. It's so excellent.
Who knew that the most famous stripper of all time, Gypsy Rose Lee, wrote an autobiography? Well, she did. This is what the musical "Gypsy" was based on. If you like the musical, you will adore the book. It's full of hilarious stories about Gypsy's eccentric mother and goes much farther than the musical into Gypsy's life after she makes it as a stripper. There's also a great collection of photographs. Gypsy's writing style is fun and easy to read--she's at her best writing humor.
Of course she finesses a lot of details--they all did. But the parts that ring true (because I've seen echoes in so many autobiographies and biographies of early film stars who started from similar beginnings) are the harrowing details of life in vaudeville.I hope someone is doing a study of the life of the traveling players because that part of our history seems to have come to an end, and at least for the children dragged from flophouse to flophouse as their mothers and or fathers (usually mothers, I find) pursued their dream of fame and riches, maybe that's good.
When I was lucky enough to play the role of "Louise" (aka Gypsy Rose Lee) in "Gypsy", I found and read her autobiography - self written, it was an amazing view into an unusual, dysfunctional family (a mother and two daughters) and into the life of a strong, intelligent woman who made a permanent mark in show business. I loved every word and felt like I knew her personally when I was done, for someone who loves performing, it is a must read!
Spoiler: Her life is really sad and her mom is pretty delusional. But I guess Gypsy turned out pretty normal. Or like, or normal as someone can be with no education and a delusional parent. Also. I LOOOOOVE that they always had so many pets, even into her adult life. Good read. Easy too. A lot of name dropping that I don't know because I'm too young to know but otherwise, very interesting perspective of a very interesting life.
The book is wonderful!And she is/was one of us - a Geek. When she was a kid she would read 'Weird Tales' magazine.She also had a wonderful way of looking at things, one in particular I adore:'You don't need to be religious to believe in God, just observantIf you have seen the movies you will love the book.
I enjoyed this book written by a famous stripper on which the musical "Gypsy" was based. My only complaint was how abruptly it ended. I was reading a first edition of the original 1957 version, so I do wonder if the updated version tells more of the story.
It was fun to see where the musical came from - how awful Mama Rose really was in real life, how Louise and June were truly raised on the road, and how Herbie was more like a composite of a few different people than an actual person (though there was a similar character who the book referred to as "Gordon").
Gypsy Rose Lee's son wrote about going with his mother to see the opening of the musical on Broadway, and about realizing during the song "Little Lamb" how desperately lonely his mother had been in her youth.But the second half of the book, all about her navigation of burlesque, wasn't that exciting.
Perhaps that's why it was shortened into about 2 songs in the actual musical...
As usual, the book was way better than the movie!!!
Fun and interesting autobiography. Worth reading. Gives a great view on vaudeville and burlesque.
This 1957 memoir follows the early life of Ellen June Hovick a.k.a. Rose Louise Hovick, alias Gypsy Rose Lee, who became a legend in her lifetime.The author was older sister of later Hollywood actress June Havoc.
When the maturing June deserted the act, Rose stepped out of the cow's behind and into the spotlight, becoming Gypsy.
Showbiz was all Rose had ever known when she made this fatalistic transition.She was a self-made lady, a raconteur, an entertainer of the highest order.
As Gypsy's archetypal overbearing stage mother, Mama Rose, starred the wondrous Rosalind Russell, scoring the Golden Globe Award for Best Actress.
Rose even signed her up to strip--although she never did all the way--and they played sleazy clubs in disreputable areas of cities.So Gypsy became the equivalent of a .400 hitter in triple A baseball, even though she continually tried to make it on the legitimate stage and was never able to.Evidently her act consisted of her talking to the audience the entire time and doing such daring things as throwing pins into the tubas in the pit.
Interesting-a glimpse of the early days of entertainment in America.
And although the style is quite entertaining with detailed glimpses of life on the road, the pathological infantilizing of June, and the insistence of denying Gypsy's femininity along with consistent deprecating remarks to destroy her self-confidence are disturbing to read.Of course, it is understood that as a memoir, this book's veracity should all be taken with a healthy grain of salt, but if a fraction of this is true( and based on historic events from Rose Hovick's brushes with the law), it's still a strong indictment against a malevolent mom.Unfortunately, this section of the book is also the most interesting as the rest neglects to mention Gypsy's own three divorces, her son, or her own life in depth once she escaped the constant control of her mother.
Gypsy: Memoirs of America's Most Celebrated Stripper is, well, exactly what it sounds like -- the life story of the infamous Gypsy Rose Lee, the undisputed queen of the burlesque strip-tease.
When I realized that the musical was based on this book, I decide to give it a go, and see what I did and didn't recognize.What I Liked:- The entire story is told in a very matter-of-fact way.
It takes the high points and makes them higher, grabs onto subtle character flaws and makes them thematic, and streamlines the entire story without making it unrecognizable.What I Didn't Like:- This book is billed as a memoir, but it hedges on autobiography.
Dalla lettura si evince chiaramente come Gypsy Rose Lee, a parte spogliarsi, non è che sappia far molto nella vita.
Gypsy non pone mai abbastanza l'accento su temi davvero interessanti come il sotterraneo conflitto con la madre - donna da cui tenersi alla larga il più possibile - June, ed anche la sua iniziazione agli uomini e all'amore.
Ne mettesse a parte anche il lettore...?L'autobiografia non è brutta di per sé, anche se molti dei suoi contenuti probabilmente non sono da prendere per oro colato, ma manca quello che dovrebbe avere un'autobiografia come si rispetti: la vita vera.
I have always found Lee to be a very fascinating woman, I attribute this to not knowing a whole lot about her outside of vaudeville/burlesque.
I decided to read her words and story in hopes of discovering more.Once again I find mystique surrounds Lee. Her story is fairly generic, she doesn’t divulge a plethora of information, rather just enough to add clarity to the audiences assumptions.
Really no surprises were revealed from her mighty pen.
Describes vaudeville forward to burlesque.
On stage she revealed just enough and it carried over to offstage.
I bet some of it is even true, and if it wasn't, it is now."- John Steinbeck This sums up exactly how I feel about Gypsy Rose Lee's Memoirs.
Other stories start to take on a sameness, where the surroundings are described, then a problem arises, which Gypsy's mother Rose then sets about to solve in a flamboyant fashion.
Despite this sameness in some stories, it is a fascinating work, showing the sometimes absurd existence of vaudeville and burlesque performers.
The older Gypsy Rose Lee's tour with Fanny Brice serves as an epilogue that wraps up all these themes in a neat and cyclical way.
Bookshelf cleanup- re-readI had originally given this one 4 stars and have elevated it to 5 (for the pure enjoyment I basked in these many years later) after having re-read it.This book it just too enjoyable.
She had such a knack for being fun, funny and open-hearted (sure sure, it's said she wasn't exactly 'nice', but I get the impression her sincerity was pretty set).
She was extremely well organized within her chaos and had a soundly level head (from the impressions I gather.) Her outlook was pretty freaking amazing, and she's positively interesting, and I want to know more.
I read the original 1957 version, so I'm missing all the extra information and chapters from the newer releases.
The first two sections of this book were fabulous: delightfully dysfunctional, full of ridiculous stories about her mother, and a retrospective on vaudeville and traveling acts.
The last section of the book felt rushed and completely dissociated from the first sections--was there a radical time jump that I missed to leap forward what felt like 10 years?
(But maybe updated editions explain this better.) The stage version I saw did a much better job of explaining her new career and how it happened.

Autobiografia della prima star del burlesque - un libro pieno di ironia ed autoironia . La descrizione della vita di una scalcinata compagnia teatrale nell’ America degli anni a cavallo della depressione del 1929 e’ divertentissimo.Il burlesque , inizialmente snobbato perche’ non “teatro”, diventa prima un mezzo di sussistenza e poi il trampolino per la fama, fino ad arrivare ad Hollywood. Il tutto senza mai perdere di vista che , per una star, il vero imperativo e’ : « Che se ne parli bene, che se ne parli male, l'importante è che se ne parli »
This book definitely feels like memoir, impressionistic in nature, a mix of truth and fiction. It was very interesting but kind of glosses over the bit where Gypsy learns to take her clothes off on stage. One day she lowers her shoulder strap, the next she's in a tease costume, the next she's a world famous burlesque performer. There had to be some interesting psychological insights in the moments between.There is quite a bit of animal cruelty in this book, just the nature of vaudeville I guess.
I've often heard about Gypsy Rose Lee, but didn't know anythign about her.
In Topeka the Jayhawk Theater claims to be the home of her debut.
Well, though this book I learned they were stretching the truth, but it was still a signifant moment in her life.
I didn't know what to expect when I picked this book up.
I thought it would be much more scandelous than what it really was.
It was easy to read, along with some good humor.
This is a great book to read about a strong woman with no regrets.
What an outrageous family, especially Mama with Gypsy coming in second.
If anyone ever thought his or her family was disfunctional, they have only to read this memoir to be disabused of that idea.
It is almost unbelieveable to read of the various adventures.
I think that I have seen a video of the musical, but I'm not sure.
She got to meet and interact with a lot of famous people, including Fanny Brice, whose story also became a musical.
The afterword by her son Erik Lee Preminger is interesting, but nowhere is it explained who his father was--Otto?--and what happened then in her life.
An entertaining show-biz yarn written by the infamous strip artist Gypsy Rose Lee. The biography is fairly linear and deals mostly with Gypsy's truly fearsome mother Mamma Rose and amusing tales of hard vaudeville life and her turn as sole breadwinner after the self-liberation of her sister "Dainty June." Certainly more illuminating than the musical but stops dead at the point that Gypsy leaves New York for Hollywood in the 1940's leaving her biography unfinished.
A fascinating autobiography, which became the musical/movie that she's probably more famous for now. Interesting how it was adapted from this, besides how frequently Fanny Brice is mentioned throughout (they were best friends), since Funny Girl/Funny Lady is the other mainstay musical of the vaudeville era.
This was the book that inspired the Broadway show and later 2 movies. I feel for the person who had to decide which stories to cut for time - and there were many. Each chapter moved the story along, but also stood alone, more or less, as a little story. I enjoyed it, and took it with a grain of salt. She is an entertainer and it is an entertaining book.
The best autobiography I have ever read- this is a humour driven memoir of life on the road with a pushy mother and star sister and how Gypsy 'accidentally' falls into the world of burlesque. I was surprised how funny it was and really enjoyed her style of writing and I now want to read her sons biography of life on the road with his mother to see what his take on it was........
