https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7156505-the-9th-judgment
I have to hand it to Patterson, the crimes were especially disturbing compared to some of his other works and the killer's calling card - WCF (meaning "women and children first") was pretty clever.
As usual, there was a secondary plot moving the story along, but this time, thank Jeebus, the two crimes were actually connected!
The sex was too delicate and cheesy and people saying things like "fricken'" and "gosh darn it" was just ridiculous given the crimes, the setting, and all we know about adults in this little thing I call reality.Final Rating: 3 stars up and one doo-doo face down
However in this one they are all more bearable than usual and anyway the story is so good I could ignore their sillinesses.As with all Patterson novels the book moves at a very brisk pace with short, choppy chapters each leading straight into the next.
I think this is the main reason I read his books.
They are ideal reading for a tired brain - not much concentration needed but plenty of action to keep the reader awake.I enjoyed the secondary story about the cat burglar and liked the way it was related to the main murder mystery.
The main storyline was a killer shooting random women and children for no apparent reason, with a cat burglar nicknamed 'Hello Kitty', a secondary thread.
I enjoyed the cat burglar more than the main thread, especially the way it ended.
The main story didn't always make sense (view spoiler)[I'm not actually sure why the shooter was targeting women and children and how this and his tagline WCF tied in with his wartime trauma (hide spoiler)] but it had a few twists and a good pace that kept me entertained for a few hours.
3.5★ but I'll bump it up to 4★ for Hello Kitty!
Is there a certain word count or page number that an author has to hit before their book is complete?Lindsay Boxer and her team respond to a gruesome murder – someone is killing young mothers and their children and leaving a horrific “WCF” message behind in the woman’s lipstick.
As the two stories reach their conclusions and intertwine, Boxer and her team, with the help of a character from a previous book, try to end the WCF killings and bring peace once again to San Francisco.
However, that would be too easy and once again, Lindsay is drawn into yet another round with a lying deceitful manipulating character that appears to turn Lindsay’s world on end.Patterson writes a very simple easy to follow book.
why am i still reading this series?? it's TERRIBLE. i mean, the first ones were good. but then . . . i swear, after 3rd Degree everything went down hill. and now it's what, six books later and i'm still surprised that they are getting worse? there wasn't even anything INTERESTING in it. and it made NO SENSE. clues? a mystery? what? i'm kind of still confused. at least they used a map when plotting the chase scenes this time. so glad i waited for this at the library. ugh. i still miss jill. the end.
The 9th Judgment audio book is number nine in the Woman's Murder Club series written by author Maxine Paetro and narrated by Carolyn McCormick Once again author and narrator pair up together creating another breathtaking, nail biting, thriller that's not to be missed!Maxine Paetro is an old hand at blending several story lines together creating even higher levels of suspense and anticipation throughout the story while Carolyn McCormick deftly accentuates each character's individual personality portraying them into living, breathing, larger than life people.
Was so awesome to get back to the these characters after years being away from them. When we were moving bookshelves because of a pipe busting so now want to get caught up on the series. Yep so that's my month goal! They aren't huge books and are fast reads so....on to book ten! My quick and simple overall: loved the plot and getting reunited with the characters! Fast read you can do in one sitting.
Of all of the Women's Club Murder mysteries, this one has to be my favorite!
This has to be one of the toughest cases yet for the Women's Murder Club - a deranged killer is targeting women and children all over San Francisco, and the bodies are piling up.
Lindsey, Claire, Cindy and Yuki deal with their own challenges as they go about their jobs trying to protect their beloved San Francisco.
The ending will surprise readers!
The only disappointing part of the book is that we don't see much of Yuki this time!
By far, the most twisted book in this series. You know from the get go who the bad guy is and boy do you want the cops to get him. He's sick and twisted and ... Ugh he was just bad. There there was the second case in the story that you couldn't get a read on until it was coming to an end and you were almost glad to see it end the way it did. Very very good 9th book in a series.
I'm sick of this series and the fact that there's a 10th book already out pisses me off even more BECAUSE i CAN'T BELIEVE ITS NOT OVER YET.
I followed this series because the first book was AMAZING, I enjoyed it and thought "Wow a women that's a cop and a series that centers around her life count me in!" I was interested in reading the rest of the series because I really enjoyed the first.
But THIS one just pisses me off, its like Patterson just wrote it to write it.
I don't understand why Patterson likes to ruin a good series by writing another book for it every 15 freaking seconds.
Just writing about this book is pissing me off.
Here are the reasons why I like this book:1.
I like intelligence, even in serial killers.
The harder they are to catch and figure out, the more difficult it is for the police to outsmart him, the more exciting it is for me because I become increasingly frustrated to get him caught.
Dumb criminals invoke a 'meh' reaction from me because unless they undergo a miracle, they're bound to get caught in the end anyway.2.
I liked how the Kitty burglar was somehow pitiful, not in a snide way but sincerely worth the pity.
You'll understand after you read the book.
I read it only because I didn't have to pay for it.
I am SO disappointed in James Patterson and his "cop-outs" over the last several years.
He was such a good writer in the early "Alex Cross" novels, but now he just puts his name on other authors' works to give them notoriety so the book sells.
I refuse to pay full price for a book that is as much "white space" as it is words.
It is ridiculous to start a new chapter every 200 to 300 words!
I don't understand why such an outstanding author would end up selling himself out.
I mainly read these books in the Women’s Murder Club, because I enjoy the friendship between Lindsay, Sergeant in SFPD, Claire, Medical Examiner, Cindy, journalist at the Chronicle and Yuki working as an Assistant District Attorney.
Mostly it works out and Cindy respectfully follows Lindsay’s lead.This 9th book is very disappointing in the fact that 4 lead women hardly interacted and little was happening with Claire, who’s my favorite.
I’m serious here – what motivated the authors to have that psychopath kill young mothers with babies in deserted parking garages?
Especially, as we don’t know what motivated these killings?
Time taken to read - 1 day Pages - 368Publisher - Little, Brown Young ReadersSources - gifted from another readerBlurb from Goodreads Detective Lindsay Boxer chases a Jewel thief, a murderous movie star, and a killer with a vendetta against women and children.A young mother and her infant child are ruthlessly gunned down in the garage of a shopping mall.
My Review Lindsay is on the path of a killer, murdering innocent mothers with their children.
It is really good, action, friendship, relationships, police procedure and investigations.An easy read, I think I have read one or two of the previous books and have enjoyed them and I will read them as I come across them.
The 2nd case involves a cat burglar who commits a crime but later finds out one of the people they robbed was murdered and they're being accused of murder.James Patterson reels you in with the prologue and from there, the action begins.
The stories are interesting and feels as if they're happening at the moment you're reading the book.
The activities in the story were believable and plausible.
There's only one thing I don't like about this story.
JP keeps dragging Lindsay's indecisiveness about her true feelings about Joe and marriage.
I rated this book a 4 because there's no long-winded downtime within the story.
The action is top notch, the storyline is very plausible and keeps you reading.
I really really enjoyed this one at times but at other times it was very very hard for me to read. The whole case with the mothers and children really got to me as a mother myself. As for the cases they were interesting and it was very cool how they tied in the lipstick killer in with the hello kitty thief. It was cool. As for Cindy, she is really starting to annoy the hell out of me. Her and Yuki I really do not like very much anymore, can we just go back to just Lindsay stories?
Jen's ReviewDear JamesI can call you James right, after all your books I have read, I feel we are on a first name basis.
For the first time I have had to put down one of your books and decide not to finish it.
Joss, you made me cry, but I came back for more and James I am going to do the same for you now.Now promise me darling, no more murdering innocent children --or while we are at it no evil murdering toddlers back from the dead either.
**Short "end of the month" Review**Okay this was probably the hardest book for me to read. I really couldn't even rate this. I wanted to hate every part of it, i mean really, children are killed in this book. It was very hard for me to read, and i was glad when it was over. I really thought the guy was going to go after Claire when she was on tv and told people to carry a gun, it would have shown the city that even she isn't safe, but it's whatever. I would skip this one.
Rated 3.5 stars Still enjoying Lindsey Boxer and her girls
I really enjoyed the 9th book of the Women's Murder Club series.
A cat burgler is stealing jewels from the rich and famous only something goes wrong at one heist and the lady of the house is murdered.
At the same time a seriel killer is terriozing the city doing the unthinkable......killing young mothers and their toddler children.
The victims seem to be random and there is no rhyme or reason to the killings.
In past books there have always been duel storylines taking place.
I wouldn't have enjoyed not knowing, but it sure would have made me rush out to get the next book.
It reminded me of a more grisly Stephanie Plum type book.The story kept my interest, though I was a bit disappointed and confused at the ending.
Not as much resolution as I'd like.The epilogue also had some confusing elements to it, but with it being a series, I guess I can get behind it, it just seemed so out of place.I do love the Stephanie Plum books because they're fun, funny, and easy-to-read, and I am interested enough in this series to start at the first book because it reminded me of the Plum series.A coworker gave me the audio CD.
Παρ’ όλ’ αυτά μου φάνηκε τόσο ουρανοκατέβατο, μιας και το μεγαλύτερο βιβλίο εκτυλίσσεται στους δρόμους του Σαν Φρανσίσκο, οι δύο υποθέσεις μας απασχολούν πάρα πολύ και τσουπ, σχεδόν μετά τη μέση του βιβλίου, εμφανίζεται ένας ουρανοκατέβατος Τζο, που μέχρι τότε, με όσα δεινά είχε περάσει και όση πίεση είχε ζήσει η μέλλουσα γυναίκα του, δεν είχε εμφανιστεί ακόμη για να τα αντιμετωπίσουν μαζί ενώ όταν οι υποθέσεις τείνουν να κλείσουν ο Τζο και η Λίνζι μοιράζονται την ευτυχία τους με διαλεγμένους φίλους.
"...and died."right
Patterson's books always make great audiobooks.
Not bogged down with heavy prose to lull you into sleep (not great when you're driving), and always fast-paced and tightly plotted, making you excited about the next chapter.
Still, this isn't an awesome book to say the least.
The plot was intriguing enough but the characters were all one dimensional.
And then, there was this weird plot involving a plane crash towards the end.
It was pointless and totally weird.This book isn't one that will make you think at all; the kind of audiobook that you put on while you're tidying up the house.
3.5 stars
With unparalleled danger and explosive action, THE 9TH JUDGMENT is James Patterson at his compelling, unstoppable best.This is a fast paced book and can be read in an afternoon.
I do like all the female characters in this book, but this is definitely more about Lindsay and not Claire or Cindy.
I am still not sure if Lindsay is going to stay with Joe, as the tension between Rich and Lindsay seems to be mounting.
I am not sure that Lindsay really likes Cindy seeing Rich.
I do enjoy this waffling though.There were some interesting developments in the relationship between Cindy and Rich, but also between Lindsay and Rich.
Lindsay and her partner, Rich Conklin, are angry that someone is killing mothers and innocent children.
They are determined to bring the killer to justice.Lindsay and Rich are also pulled into the “Hello Kitty” case.
Given his celebrity status, Lindsay and Rich have their hands full trying to solve his wife’s murder.I really enjoyed The 9th Judgment.
It added to the suspense when Patterson and Paetro revealed more of their private lives.All in all, The 9th Judgment is a great addition to The Women’s Murder Club series.
Fans will sympathize with the police force as they race to stop the Lipstick Killer from killing innocent mothers and children.
4.0 out of 5 stars Entertaining read in the Women's Murder Club series...., July 23, 2010This review is from: The 9th Judgment (The Women's Murder Club) (Hardcover)This is one of the better books in the Women's Murder Club series. It's fast-paced and has several different criminal actions going on that involve the members of the WMC.In first person point of view, Sergeant Lindsay Boxer of the SFPD juggles simultaneous investigations involving the shooting death of the wife of a movie star, trac
4.0 out of 5 stars Entertaining read in the Women's Murder Club series...., July 23, 2010This review is from: The 9th Judgment (The Women's Murder Club) (Hardcover)This is one of the better books in the Women's Murder Club series.
It's fast-paced and has several different criminal actions going on that involve the members of the WMC.In first person point of view, Sergeant Lindsay Boxer of the SFPD juggles simultaneous investigations involving the shooting death of the wife of a movie star, tracking a cat burglar who steals from the rich during dinner parties, and chasing a psycho dubbed the LIPSTICK KILLER who is running rampant in the garages of San Francisco shopping malls killing women and their children.
Please for the love of God James Patterson, NEVER EVER write about someone who kills innocent babies.
It's bad enough you write about kidnappers, but killing little babies..that is too much for me (I had to stop reading the Alex Cross books after book 3 because it was about a child killer).
And this story reminded me of those mall killings a few years ago.
The missed calls from Jacobi made a lot of sense too..
Does it have something to do with Lindsay's love for Joe??
We have to wait for book 10..and that could come out sometime next year.
This is the 1st series that I read and after having read other authors and stories since, I didn't quite enjoy it the 2nd time around.
I will keep my original rating of 5 stars because I did enjoy it the first time I read it...
Makes no sense the way he ends chapters in the most odd places!
It's hard to get into the flow of the story when you're switching chapters ever 2 pages!!
I really hope his Alex Cross series isn't the same way because I'd love to read those one day.
