https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16303287-the-bane-chronicles
Okay, I just wanted to say to all those Cassandra-Clare-Releasing-More-Shadowhunter-Books haters, well, SHUT THE FREAKING HELL UP!!!!!!!*Clears throat* Thank you.-------------------------------------------------------------------------Now that that's been said, let the fangirling begin:OH MY GOD! Only my favourite character EVER is getting his own freaking series!??!?! This is just the best moment of my life.Okay, the List of titles:1) What Really Happened in Peru2) The Runaway Queen3) Vampires,
This is just the best moment of my life.Okay, the List of titles:1)	What Really Happened in Peru2)	The Runaway Queen3)	Vampires, Scones, and Edmund Herondale4)	The Midnight Heir (Origionally Titled "The Rise of the Hotel Dumort")5)	 The Rise of the Hotel Dumort(Originally Titled "The Rise and Fall of the Hotel Dumont")6)	Saving Raphael Santiago7)	The Fall of the Hotel Dumort (Origionally Titled "No Immortal Can Keep a Secret")8)	The Course of True Love and First Dates What to Buy the Shadowhunter Who Has Everything:9)	 The Last Stand of the New York Institute(Originally titled "What to Buy the Shadowhunter Who Has Everything")10)	The Last Stand of the New York Institute (Originally Titled "The Letter")EDIT- 18/3: Yay!!
I so enjoyed my time reading The Bane Chronicles!
This is one of the only books from The Shadowhunter Chronicles that I had not previously read more than once, so it was interesting to re-read it 4 years later!I treasured getting to know Magnus better through his lifetime so much.
It's fascinating how there is a distinct change in his character when comparing the stories where he is much younger and more care-free to tales of him being older, wiser, and more mature.
I think the complexity of Magnus Bane is perfectly captured in this group of novellas and would absolutely recommend to anyone interested in gaining a larger history on his character.
Those who try to bring this truth to light, ohhhh, those who try are told that they are the bullies, bringing out the truth about this woman and her absurd past.CassyPants,How is it that these blogs that have nothing but evidence to the hellish nightmare known as your fanfiction days are considered bullies?
And I'm ashamed of that past, which is why I tried to hide it from you, my fans."I'm sick of your bullshit, and I'm sick of you milking out this nonsense.
This book, unfortunately, did nothing for me.I remember Magnus Bane being one of my favorite characters of the original TMI series (if you can remember that far back, with all of Clare's publications and planned publications since then), but it's been so long since I read City of Lost Souls that all of my emotional attachment to him has disintegrated into ash.For someone more connected to this series than I am, this may be a great addition, full of intriguing backstory and unique Magnus humor.
But for me, this book was minimally funny and minimally entertaining.
(Oh my gosh, my lovely friend Lance just told me about The Last Hours and I’m happier than I’ve ever been!) But I am going to break down each short story with my thoughts, opinions, and individual star rating!➽ 
Then we jump to 1890 when Magnus meets Imasu and we get to see him drinking, riding magic carpets, mentioning people from TID, and falling in love.
This was perfection, and give me all the 1857, London Institute, stories with Magnus going on adventures with these people and fighting demons.
I loved how this short story was set in 1929 New York, while Magnus is trying to run a speakeasy.
Woah looking through the comments all I can see is hate....for Cassandra Clare and how she is milking the fanchise,for a start:STOP if you dont want to read another one her books you don't have to- we are not making you!
I love the Shadow Hunter world and I dont think there is any problem with so many books being out.
I just wouldn't read them at all.Stop hating it- no ones forcing you.Sorry for that rant just all the haters rant about it saying how she's milking it when most, if not all, of them will buy this book!
It's Magnus ❤️
Which is one of the reasons why it took me half a year to finish this book.I really enjoy short stories that let you see more of your favourite books.
It's real, she loves her own characters so much, she's her own biggest fan and she needs to calm down.Now, this doesn't mean it was all bad.
Because there's Alec and then there's Isabelle and they're my favourite characters in this series.
The cute little scenes between Magnus and Alec made me giggle and smile.
I'm so glad for their existence.Honestly, Cassandra Clare needs to cut the crap and get it over with.
IT HAS MAGNUS BANE.MAGNUS BANE!!!!!!What more do ya want??*rereads book for the 6th time*
You know, the ones that built shrines for Clare's writing ability, who desperately wanted to live in the world she created and the ones that proclaimed City of Bones as the best book evah?!
I know it's hard to invest so much time in the creation of such a complex world, but you need to let go and improve yourself as a writer.
She told her story and she was done, because she knew that, as a writer, she can do more and it is also her responsibility to do more.The more I think about this, the angrier I get and the less I like her books, so I'll just leave it a that.
First thing I have to say.... To everyone who is complaining about Cassandra Clare or TMI or anything like that, please kindly Shut up. If you don't like her or her work why spend your time bitching about it why waster your breath on something you hate.... Anyways I am so excited for this book!!! I love all of Cassandra Clare's books and am can't wait for for them all to come out.
Yes, everyone's entitled to their opinion, but I've read some reviews that say she bullied people in her past, well, the things those people have been saying can be considered as bullying.
And it's her life; she doesn't have to tell the entire world about what she's done in the past!
And so what if she is making A LOT of series about her world.
She can write 10 different series with the same concept.
Please just stop hating on Cassandra Clare, and think about what you write, before you post it on Goodreads or anywhere else.
The stories in here were really hit or miss. I loved "The Course of True Love [and First Dates]" and seeing more of Magnus with Alec, Tessa, Will, and Jem, but then absolutely didn't care about the filler and slapstick humor in others. This reminded me of that "Tales from the Shadowhunter Academy" book with the different writing style and how some characters didn't quite feel like themselves. I'd give a lot of the stories 2 stars, but there are definitely a couple scenes that really make this worth the read!
I have never read City of Fallen Angels.Then, as I heard all the ravings from fans about how much better TID was, and all the raving about Will and Jem, I became curious and wanted to know which side of the love-triangle I would fall on.
It introduced me to Jem, who is one of the best things Cassie has ever created, the story was very interesting, and Tessa is somewhat better than Clary.
But as I said, Magnus Bane is one of the redeeming characters she has created, and I was excited to read about him in his own world.Each story in this book was interesting in its own right.
I HAVE BEEN WAITING FOR THIS MOMENT MY ENTIRE LIFE.!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
¡Un cinco estrellas rotundo!
Cuando Magnus Bane es tu personaje favorito de The Mortal Instruments no puedes más que adorar todas y cada una de sus historias.
Desde desastres en Perú, barcos piratas, la Revolución Francesa, Edmund y James Herondale, vampiros vengativos, la crisis económica del 29, decepciones amorosas, romances de verano, viajes exóticos, aventuras con Ragnor y Catarina, el origen de la transformación de Raphael Santiago, vampiros frenéticos y drogados y las primeras matanzas del Círculo, hasta el amor verdadero, las primeras citas y mensajes de voz tristes y de amenazas...
¡todo está en The Bane Chronicles!¡Súper recomendado!
PS: Pueden mis reseñas individuales de cada uno de los relatos si los buscan por separado <3.
Milk that money cow, Clare. Milk it until it's a shriveled husk of a once peaceful and prosperous animal. Fucking do it. You know, I honestly didn't know you could make so many fucking books and shit out of one concept. I have been proved wrong. Oh, God. *EDIT*Damn. The money moocher herself admits to the crime - with a smile, too! Wowza, Clare. Not only do you plagerize and mooch, but you're proud of it, too. Head on over here to see the woman in action. *shakes head*
“Magnus, you were trying to flirt with your own plate.""I'm a very open-minded sort of fellow!”  THIS HAS BEEN SO GOOD !.The truth is that re-reading on a character for whom I have so much love, like Magnus, has been a pleasure.I've always been very curious to know more about the life of this eccentric character , who has always been present in the life of the Shadowhunters both The Mortal Instruments saga, as in the trilogy the infernal devices, which as you know, I love with all my heart :).
THIS HAS BEEN SO GOOD !.The truth is that re-reading on a character for whom I have so much love, like Magnus, has been a pleasure.I've always been very curious to know more about the life of this eccentric character , who has always been present in the life of the Shadowhunters both The Mortal Instruments saga, as in the trilogy the infernal devices, which as you know, I love with all my heart :).So, for me has been incredible that in these short stories the writers have given me the possibility to not only revive to Bane , but also to ancient characters of the sagas that I miss so much !.
I love the fabulous Magnus Bane as much as the closest violent fangirl, but seriously, Clare? Stop milking that dead cow of yours already and move   FORWARD.
This almost took me a month to read so I am SO happy I finally finished it.I absolutely adore Magnus Bane so I was really excited to get to know him more, but unfortunately the stories in this were really hit or miss.
The other 6 stories bored me to no end as they were just filler stories that didn't add anything to the shadowhunter chronicles/Magnus' character in my opinion.
I am happy I read it though and I do think it is worth the read for those 5 stories that I really enjoyed, which were:
The Voicemail of Magnus Bane:
I LOOOOOOVE THAT SHE'S MAKING ANOTHER BOOK. I LOVE THAT SHE'S GOING INTO DEPTH ABOUT THE WORLD SHE'S CREATED. I LOOOOOVE THAT SHE'S TRYING TO PLEASE HER FANS BECAUSE WE DDIIIDD ASK FOR THIS. I LOOVEEEEE THAT SHE STILL HAS MORE TO GIVE US AND WON'T STOP. I LOOOOOOVE THAT SHE IGNORES ALL THE HATERS AND KEEPS GOING BECAUSE I DON'T WANT THIS TO END. I LOOOOVEEE HER PERIOD. [image error][image error]Y'all are just jelly that Magnus has been sexier than you since the 13th century.
And i'm so disappointed :( Had I read this back in 2013 when I got it, back when I was still OBSESSED with TMI, i'm sure I would have loved it.
The entire reason I took off as many stars as I did is because I was booooored.
I skim read a ton of stories and put the audiobook on 2.5 times speed as I scrolled Tumblr just to slog through it.
I only enjoyed 3 stories out of this, but even those were only like 3 stars individually.
I would advise skipping this unless you're reading the entire shadowhunters chronicles and read this right with TMI/TID.
4.5/5Magnus has always been one of my favorite characters so of course I thoroughly enjoyed this. I didn't love it as much as the Shadowhunter Academy anthology because there were a few stories I didn't love as much, but I still enjoyed reading about Magnus' past.
Actual rating 4.5 starsThis was such a pleasant surprise. I wasn't expecting much for a book of novellas about a character I already knew but wow, there are a lot of golden nuggets in these stories from past books, past characters and future ones as well! Absolutely a must-read if you have read and loved The Mortal Instruments and The Infernal Devices :)
(Las películas también, pero no de la manera que a mí me parece más correcta.) Por lo tanto, esta historia tuvo un par de elementos que me gustaron mucho.
El primero fue ver a Magnus es una situación algo más complicada e interesante, a la par que emocionante, y el segundo elemento fue, como he dicho, la conexión con la historia real que tiene.
Le robó el corazón a Magnus y se comenta varias veces durante las sagas, pero creo que la historia no está a la altura.
“Have a little faith in my magic fingers”  Magnus is a character that I always liked. I enjoyed it in TID trilogy, while he helped Will and I loved it in TMI series with all his eccentricity and his love for Alec although he seemed a little stalker sometimes.It is a fascinating character, one of those who always brings light to a scene and even can make you laugh at the most tragic moments. “Magnus did not have enormous respect for the Law, but if he was breaking it he wanted to look good doing
I enjoyed it in TID trilogy, while he helped Will and I loved it in TMI series with all his eccentricity and his love for Alec although he seemed a little stalker sometimes.It is a fascinating character, one of those who always brings light to a scene and even can make you laugh at the most tragic moments.
This was so perfect 😂Review to come.
Okay, Cassandra Clare. You are really milking this. A lot....However, Magnus Bane is my favorite character so I'll probably read this anyway.
Out of eleven stories I enjoyed five but only truly loved two.
One of the most easily explainable is Magnus' constant skin tone changes from gold to brown even when it contradicts the other books (you would have to come up with a pretty good explanation why in City of Bones he was golden and in the story here that plays less than a week later he is brown and in City of Ashes no one notices that change; plus I think when writing this the authors often had Godfrey Gao [who played him in the film adaptation of City of Bones] in mind and not the person introduced in TMI).
