https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/824871.Guys_and_Dolls
“Guys and Dolls, the stories of Damon Runyon” is a unique collection of short stories, and I have not come across anything quite like it in my reading life.
The dark elements in this book almost slip by you and the reader must remind themselves from time to time that many of the actions depicted are despicable.Special mention goes out to the story “A Story Goes with It”, one of the best examples of Runyon’s gift of characterization in the piece.I would recommend reading “Guys and Dolls” because there is nothing like it in modern literature.
They were William Sydny Porter (Pen Name: O.
Intanto, perché è l'edizione che mia suocera si comprò nel marzo 1957, con nome e data scritti sul risguardo con un'impeccabile calligrafia da educanda di una volta.
Il libro è come una serie di telefilm a episodi, e bisogna amare il genere: io in genere, più che i racconti a breve respiro, amo le architetture complesse.3.
Adesso è necessario usare il vocabolario, perché parole come "grascia" e "paìno" non è che risultino poi chiarissime a tutti.
E poi "paìno" sul Devoto-Oli non si trova: ho dovuto disseppellire un Palazzi del 1939 per scoprire che vuol dire "zerbinotto".4.
While I have been familiar with Damon Runyon as a famous New York character and the writer for such films as "Guys and Dolls", "Little Miss Marker" and "Pocketful of Miracles"/"Lady for a Day" I had never really read his original works.
"Guys and Dolls and Other Writings" puts it all together in one volume and it gave me many hours of joy and amusement.
But even he can't hold a candle to the likes of Nathan Detroit, Harry the Horse, Big Jule and the other citizens of Broadway.
This is a decent selection of twenty of Runyon's Broadway stories and would serve as a good introduction to one of the truly great comic writers of the 20th Century.
If you need a sample of Runyon's wonderful, utterly distinctive prose, try this paragraph from the classic The Brain Goes Home:"I once read a story about a guy by the name of King Solomon who lives a long time ago and who has a thousand dolls all at once, which is going in for dolls on a very large scale indeed, but I guarantee that all of King Solomon's dolls put together are not as expensive as any one of The Brain's dolls.
For a much fuller selection, my advice is to get hold of a copy of the Picador paperback, On Broadway.
They are more like cynical fairy tales in which the endings are sometimes grim.Most of the career criminals which populate the stories are portrayed as the good guys (in contrast to police and bankers); although in some instances the narrator merely feigns goodwill toward Harry the Horse and Little Isadore from the Brooklyn waterfront (who have a reputation as killers) because to offend them might be injurious to his health.
More interesting is his reporting on the trials of Arnold Rothstein's killer (George McManus) and Al Capone (for tax evasion).
It's kind of a shame that, good as the musical "Guys and Dolls" is, it's more or less taken Damon Runyon's entire place in the public memory to itself.
Runyon's short story anthology of the same name is a minor masterpiece of style over substance.
What sets Runyon apart, and makes you keep reading after the initial novelty has worn off, is the unique, Runyonesque writing style.
It's a style instantly recognizable from almost a century of homage and parody, and nobody does it better than Runyon.
This reminded me of Wodehouse - whimsical early 20th century stories featuring a very specific milieu in which everyone shares the same absurd social assumptions. Of course the environments are very much different - Runyon specialises in the hoods and gamblers of Broadway, characters seeming to spring out of a classic WB movie. It took me a bit to get into the spirit of this but once I did it was a hoot and a holler.
You start out with your unnamed narrator, who either gets invited along on a caper or sits next to a guy who has a story to tell him.
There's lots of gangsters, betting on horses, heartbreak and/or romance, and then comes your twist ending.
The plots are simplistic, like  Encyclopedia Brown meets Henry O; you can see the twist coming every time, but these stories are mostly about the language.
And if you're looking for the story that inspired the musical Guys and Dolls, you want The Idyll of Miss Sarah Brown, which, I will also say is a favorite.
(Once you've read a certain amount of these stories, you'll find yourself thinking in present tense.) Some of the situations in these short stories are honestly very funny, but on the other hand (or at least when you've been reading a steady diet of them for a while) some feel a bit forced and trite; once in a while the narrator's dialect gets a little too involved and repetitive for his own good.Among my favorites in the collection were "A Story Goes With It," "Butch Minds the Baby," and "Breach of Promise." "The Bloodhounds of Broadway" and "Palm Beach Santa Claus" were pretty funny too.
This was actually a collection from three short story collections: Guys and Dolls, Blue Plate Special and Money From Home (so I'm hoping I am entering this in the right book slot).
Runyon's stories inspired (among other things) the Broadway musical Guys and Dolls.
This collection contains numerous short stories on such colorful characters like Dave the Dude, Rusty Charlie, Benny Southstreet, The Brain, Good Time Charley, Nathan Detroit, Big Jule and many others.
Still, Runyon captures the heart and eccentricity of his world very well, and it was interesting to read some of the stories that inspired the musical.
Guys and Dolls is the collective name for these short stories, which I believe were made into a musical and a musical-movie.
Guys and Dolls takes place in New York in the 1920s and 30s, on Broadway, sort of an underground, gambling, semi-illegal world.
Many of the stories are humorous, such as A Piece of Pie, in which two contestants (representing New York and Boston), have an easting competition.
Quite amusing.Guys and Dolls is also written in a style (presumably) like the people in the stories would talk.
A "doll" means a woman, "potatoes" means money, etc.
Though I expect alot of people don't even remember the musical Guys and Dolls or the film Little Miss Marker, I do.
Honestly, Hollywood has gotten better about their adaptations in recent years.For example, Little Miss Marker was a cute film with Shirly Temple.
The short story is a tragedy with some dark humor mixed in.
And there certainly isn't any singing like Guys and Dolls.
The stories have a pretty unique style.
They feel like stories a guy from the 1930s would tell you during a casual dinner.
Anecdotes and the like.
I read this collection as "background research" whilst playing Nathan Detroit in the musical.
Sadly, Nathan only features in a few stories as a minor character but reading this gave a broader understanding of the New York dialect and the morally bereft behaviour of the characters.
Stylistically, Runyon writes as an unnamed narrator who tells the story as though he's a lifelong friend of yours, providing dry, witty asides here and there.
And who wouldn't want to read a story that contained a character called Madame La Gimp?Runyon's unique subject matter and highly original prose puts him in a league of his own - Broadway's Hemingway, if you like.
My copy of this book is the one that belonged to my grandfather, who died in the late 40s.
Runyon is an extremely undervalued writer, IMHO, one of the New Yorker writers who helped sell the magazine but isn't revered the way the other New Yorker writers are.
Is it because his characters are obviously lower class?
Not taxi riding tennis players like Holden Caulfield?
Or is it that lots of this stuff went to Broadway and the movies (Lemon Drop Kid, Apple Annie, Little Miss Marker, Guys and Dolls.)But these stories are still darn funny as well as touching.
When I am sad, I read them again.
I ordered this book when i finished watching the movie 'guys and dolls' with marlon brando and frank sinatra.
I loved the world created and wanted to read more about it.To my surprise i quite enjoyed it.
I was a bit hesitant to pick it up first but i read through it very quickly.
There are parts that are very offensive and not all all pc.
This book is mainly for people who want to read short stories set long ago who can overlook a little offensive use of violence and language.
Hint: i loved the use of the word 'indeed' it was very amusing to me.
A typical story in this collection is framed by an encounter of the nameless narrator with someone in Mindy's deli. The plot twist is rarely much of a surprise. But oh, the juice is in the telling, with obscure bits of slang (some of which Runyon must have invented himself) and paragraph-long litotes-laden sentences that double back on themselves to comic effect. Runyon manages to tell a tale in nested flashbacks using nothing but the present tense. The stories are both more violent and funnier than the material in the stage musical, and sometimes much darker.
I was predisposed to like this, being a big fan of the musical based on them. And these short stories did not disappoint (excluding the fact that I couldn't find a mention of Miss Adelaide anywhere! What's up with that?) I liked the turns of phrase and "wise guy" stylings that his first-person narrator uses (tho i spread out reading this collection over a few weeks -- perhaps reading them all at once it would have gotten old). I like the humor, I like the mini-mysteries that get set up, I like it all.
Odd that as famous a name should be so hard to find here.
I don't know if the term 'Runyonesque' has disappeared from the language, but if so, it's a shame.
No-one ever summed-up the place and the period as perfectly...and his stories are as delightful now as they were back then.
The key, of course, is his use of language and idiom, and by the time you've finished this, you'll be talking like Nicely-nicely Johnson!
His style is like a gentle Philip Marlowe, and a grittier Bertie Wooster.
Not much help?
I guess not.
Read this, then, and do a better review.
Guys and Dolls is my all-time-favorite musical, and I love the collection of short stories on which it is based. Reading these stories is a helluva good time. You'll laugh, you'll cry, you'll want to go out and buy a checkered suit ...Now if you'll excuse me, my school is performing G & D as the spring musical in about 15 minutes, so I gotta head to the auditorium to watch my very talented students in the roles of Sarah Brown, Sky Masterson, Nathan Detroit, Nicely-Nicely ... whatever his name is. Good times!
I started reading the first tale, and the style stuck out like a purple thumb: Runyon seems obsessed with run-on sentences, in the manner of a caffeine addict who loathes periods -- or even the ellipsis -- for fear that any pause in his speech will allow someone else to get a word in edgewise or endo. It seems to be an accurate mimicking of an actual speech pattern, but it doesn't induce me to read on.
I have never really liked the musical Guys and Dolls, but these short stories are wonderful. Short stories are already my favorite form, as they get to the point quickly and have tight construction. These stories are all great, every one with a twist at the end. I found myself wanting to read them aloud to somebody just for the joy of the language. Now I have to watch the musical again and see if I get more out of it.
its tempting to read story after story but they're too alike to do so without a break inbetween. the plotlines are no big deal but his effective economy with words is stunning and makes me want to never write another sentence for the rest of my life. i laugh aloud every story.the tough-guy jargon of the narrators is wonderful. and catching. lately i've been calling all my female friends "dolls"...
I came to this book not as a fan of either the musical or the film (not having seen either, and watching the trailer online, have no intention on doing so) but just seeing the book around and it looking cool, and me embarking on a concerted effort to read more classics. I loved the hip jive language and the scenes of the city I once visited and loved. And the characters! Brilliant....
If you like the happy-go-lucky musical & movie Guys & Dolls and are expecting the same here, you might be surprised by the dark edge of many of the stories. They are, after all, about criminals. Overall, Runyon is very funny and great at ending his stories with a final twist or jab you (usually) don't see coming. Good bedtime reading.
This was actually a re-read of the book, which I read when I was much younger. Only the first story has anything to do with the musical whatsoever; that said, the musical retained much of the feel of the stories, which were enjoyable, entertaining, and occasionally very touching. Read in a "Brooklyn accent."
I went to a top-notch production of Guys and Dolls last week and the artistic director of the theater said the most appalling thing: that most of the people in the audience had probably never heard of Damon Runyon. Oh, tis enough to make a doll despair, or at least develop a cold.This is one of the great masters of American humor and I'll stake him in a crap game against Mark Twain any time.
Runyon is the rare author that seems to be able to break a lot of conventional writing rules. His characters are pretty generic, his stories focus heavily on irony, he uses little dialogue and a lot of exposition. But the voice he writes in is so amazing, it makes up for all that. I'm always up for a story about lowlives and the women that break their hearts.
This collection of short stories brings a smile to my face, just because you have seen the film don't think you know what the book is about. Five stars may seem a lot but by the end of every story my face was lit up because they are just charming. I need to read Runyon's other short story collections.
Seen the film? Well the stories are better. The characters leap out at you, take your money and leave you for dead. The lilt and language of this cityscape conjures up a world normally obscured by melodrama or prejudice. The poetry is as much a precursor of Dylan's storytelling as anything by Hank Williams.
