https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/111890.Jill
From BBC Radio 4 - Classical Serial:A young student arrives at Oxford and is drawn helplessly into his own imaginative world.
Larkin wrote Jill during Word War II, while he was still at university and set the book in the same time and place.
Larkin writes brilliantly of the displacement felt by his main character, John Kemp, a working class freshman at Oxford University.
As I was reading the book I was counting the pages until the end, never a good sign.
Mediocre is not good enough though, when there are so many books to read and many, many of them more worth reading than this one.The early qualities resurface towards the end after a bombing raid hits John's home town.
Although this one of Larkin's only two novels - all his other books were poetry, it is obvious that he would have succeeded just as well with prose. He was a wonderful writer and this is a small an ordinary story made great by way Larkin relates it.
The principal character is John Kemp, a young working-class student from the north of England who, while at grammar school, wins a scholarship to read English at Oxford University during the early years of the Second World War. During his first term at Oxford, John meets a number of middle class students, one of whom - Christopher Warner - is his roommate.
The middle section of the book, which features the letters and diaries of John's fictional sister Jill, is nothing like as good as the opening chapters.
Jill tells the story of a young man, John Kemp, away from home for the first time, going up to Oxford to study English literature.Published a few years after Larkin left Oxford, there appear to be many parallels with his own life: a less privileged background, from the north of England, studied English at Oxford - apparently wrote more than he studied - during the war and would have been at risk of having his home bombed.
As part of a misguided attempt to impress him, John creates a fictional life for his sister, Jill, by writing himself detailed letters.
Classical Serialhttp://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b006qfz6Duration: 58 minutesFirst broadcast: Sunday 31 March 2013(view spoiler)[ BBC Blurbs: Dramatised for the first time on BBC Radio 4 by Robin Brooks (Ulysses, I Claudius, The Chandler Season).
Starring Samuel Barnett as John Kemp.
John Kemp, a Northern Grammar boy arrives at Oxford for his first term.
In effect, Jill is about Larkin finding himself as a writer - a book about the craft of writing and a young man's journey from boyhood to maturity.(view spoiler)[Dramatised by Robin BrooksProducer/Director: Fiona McAlpineSound: Alisdair McGregorAn Allegra production for BBC Radio 4.
Sorry I give everything five stars. If I hate a book I don't finish reading it! This one is beautiful.
Slow, dream-like tale of a northern working class scholar spending his first term in Oxford at the start of WWII.
While it includes the familiar British theme of class, it isn't ultimately about that.
John Kemp, the subject of the story is disorientated and confused in a world he worked hard to reach.
The story is not particularly strong; mainly one of youthful obsession with a girl who starts imaginary and becomes real; but the writing captures something essential of what it is to be young and confused.
He frequently bumps his figurative elbows, if we continue with this metaphor: he sometimes attempts to use symbols without first calling a spade a spade, so that they jar and are somewhat inconspicuous within the rest of the narrative, and several avant-garde metaphors fall a little flat.
His first attempts to characterise individuals lead to him creating caricatures instead, and it is here that his indecisiveness regarding his narrative voice become obvious – formal and scholarly, or nonchalantly colloquial?
You can really feel Larkin grow as a writer throughout the novel, (though the plot leaves a little to be desired) but it is not his best work; he himself acknowledged that the plot was ‘immature’, and considered Jill a juvenile ‘indiscretion’.
And more skilful than expected, as I've already said.
I'm afraid I didn't like Kemp so much [even as I identified with him, poor soul] but that's probably a GOOD thing, not bad, and Larkin managed to tread the balance between creating someone pathetic and yet -- quite flawed.
I think his poetic abilty shows through as well, and (his own) marketing of himself as a plain style poet is undermined I think, by the surreal portions of this book (also by poems like Solar, but since poems come in little bits I think it's easier to miss?).
Often, I say, it's when you read the book, and I felt very sorry -- because I identified with Kemp.
Hard not to read this and absorb the protagonist's sensitivity and inwardness.
His diffident, conventional nature causes him to be swept along by outside circumstance until his imagination and desire overwhelm him.
Most surprising here was, to me at least, the kind of fantastical feel of his delusion.
In fact the college setting, impeccable writing style and feeling of increasing disturbance made this a kind of more subdued version of Hangsaman by Shirley Jackson which came out 5 yrs later.
Would love to know if she'd ever read Jill.
With Stanley Hyman for a husband it doesn't seem unlikely the book made it her way.
Philip Larkin begins my version of the novel with a self-serving introduction that pretends to apologise for the novel as a piece of "juvenilia". It does little to disguise the overwrought self-pity of the following couple of hundred pages. Jill is well-written, but incredibly self-involved. Larkin's narrative is based around one-term at Oxford University, as he idolises his room-mate, feels sorry for himself and becomes annoyingly obsessive about a multitude of things. The book is repetitive, but without plot; intelligent but graceless. It has some excellent sentences, but adds up to little in the end. Jill simply wallows.
He feels cheated by John's lack of imagination84 Crouch thinks John a mystery not worth solvingThe Green Leaf tea shop in Oxford98 a walking bow tie100 "The day's happiness had gone with the day."105 "They were not laughing at the same things but that did not matter"109 "What he had imagined to be his most secret feeling was almost cynically common"110 friendliness like a tip for a waiter111 John sees himself in worse light than Chris, one he's heard Chris's opinion117 Finally, the name Jill appears, when John invents a little sister for Chris119 An easy lie116 John actually looks Chris in the eye135 Description of Jill = "hallucination of innocence"136-149 We read John's short story about Jill149-152 Jill's diary as written by john150-51 new Venus pencil156 John sees a young woman in a bookstore, Jill come to lifeSCR senior common room166 screw = pay?
In Jill, Philip Larkin masterfully opens with a visceral college freshman experience through the eyes of John Kemp.Kemp is inexperienced and can’t quite fit in with his blue blood roommate and his crowd.
The opening pages of the book and the potential of the plot never quite feel realized.
John Kemp invents a sister, the eponymous Jill, and a correspondence with her to make him more interesting to his roommate but this rabbit is never chased to its hole and the appearance of a real-life Jill a, while strange things certainly happen, never feels plausible.
As an escape from this John creates an imaginary sister Jill whom he writes to, painting himself as confident, outgoing and admired.
The novel then explores his infatuation with Gillian and his attempts to woo her.
It's a great read for any Larkin fan.
Larkin himself slated the book and quickly moved onto exclusively writing poetry (after his second novel Girl in Winter), so it's interesting for a Larkin fan to be able to read the novel knowing this.
However, I feel you can see the improvements when you compare this to The Girl in Winter, which is a much better novel.
While Jill – his debut novel – isn’t quite as good as Winter, it still makes for very interesting reading, particularly given its depiction of student life in the early years of WW2.In essence, the novel focuses on John Kemp, a socially awkward young man from a Northern, working-class background who wins a scholarship to Oxford University to study English in 1940.
However, things get complicated for John when he meets, Gillian, the fifteen-year-old cousin of one of Christopher’s friends, and the boundaries between the imaginary Jill and the real-life Gillian begin to blur.To read the rest of my review, please click here:https://jacquiwine.wordpress.com/2018...
This book is so strange.First of all, nothing really happens.
There aren't any huge plot twists, you don't browse the pages as quickly as you can to see what happens next.
This book is very still.
Second, I don't know whether this counts as a spoiler, but every single character in this book is detestable.
They do and say things that I didn't know anyone does.
Yet, despite of these things, this was one of my favorite reads in a while.
It was so beautifully written, and in a way very different from a lot of books I've read through my life.
I don't think any book can do existential-crisis-while-at-Oxford (or some other college) better than Brideshead Revisited, but I'm just not a huge fan of the genre outside of that. I KNOW I love Larkin, though, so perhaps there's something I'm missing.
I loved this book - that going off to university theme - on your own for the first time, in life. The exposure to wisdom and fantastic access to volumes and volumes of knowledge, and then the relationships with all around.I was also so disappointed that Larkin only had the one novel.
I am so pleased that I was not depressed before I read this book.
My burgeoning dislike for the protagonist (which in itself I think reflects what the author was trying to do) spoiled my pleasure in the book, so I fear I can only give it three stars for being frequently eloquent and evocative, but not to my taste plot or character-wise (it does mean I should question why I wanted John to grow - what my personal investment in the redemptive storyline is).There are a number of lovely moments - flashes of closely observed realism and painfully honest characterisation, and certainly there is a descriptive talent in the writing, an emotional truth and clarity.
Given this, he does a skillful job bringing to life a specific time and place (Oxford during WWII) and the inner workings of an 18-year-old male mind.
Jill has interesting meta potential (out of frustration at his failure among a boorish, privileged set, John creates a character Jill who later appears before his eyes in a bookstore).
It was ok, but it gets an extra star because it was a gift from my husband from an impromptu work trip to London during which he saw only the inside of a conference room, plus the bookstore where he bought me this book.
Le echó hiel, retrató perfectamente la mediocridad, la soledad, entre las paredes de un college; estudiantes ricos que se codean con otros (nuestro protagonista), becados por su capacidad, pero colocados al otro lado de la fractura social de una Inglaterra en plena Segunda Guerra Mundial.
Es, dada su localización y dada las vivencias de los personajes, una "novela de aprendizaje" en la que nadie aprende nada.
En fin: un excelente paseo por el paisaje de los pequeños desastres de un personaje que no acaba de levantar el vuelo, perdido en su propio laberinto.
He has a complex infatuation which starts with a girl he's invented until he meets one who is close enough to the girl of his imagination to transfer his affection to, all the while struggling to keep up socially with his loutish but nonetheless somewhat higher class roommate.I especially like the fact that it does not end in high melodrama - no one dies or goes mad or has their life irrevocably ruined as would have happened in the hands of Thomas Hardy - he has a rough few months, learns a lot about life and, assuming he is not conscripted and killed in the war, might turn out alright - no promises or insinuations one way or another.
'Jill' describes the experience of John Kemp, a Northern scholarship boy, during his first term at Oxford.
John's awkwardness and introversion, and his growing infatuation, is almost embarrassing to read and the denouement is a little ridiculous though at least picks up some pace.
A Girl in Winter, the follow up novel (there was supposed to be trilogy, but the third never appeared) was more successful and left a much stronger impression - perhaps this is why I found this, in contrast, disappointing.
A young man, John Kemp from the North of England ends up sharing a room at the University with a brash Londoner.
The books shows Kemp's obsession with trying to get with the in crowd even as they mock and denigrate him at every turn.
This discovery thrills John Kemp so much that he ends up inventing a whole fictional narrative around a sister he doesn't have.
Kemp's instant infatuation with the real Gillian fuelled no less by his earlier creation of her leads to a mad pursuit of the girl.
A slow burner for me, as nothing much seemed to happen in the first third of the book, but I persisted, and it paid off.
Larkin portrays the British class system in the microcosm of Oxford during the Second World War, when a scholarship student from the 'provinces' ends up sharing digs with a boorish and entitled idiot from the home counties.
Although written in the 40s, Larkin's prose has a surprising contemporary feel, and as one might expect, he doesn't back away from telling it like it is.

Philip Larkin was a poet of some note.
John Kemp is a working class kid who having been coached by his English teacher, get a scholarship to Oxford during the war years.
The story is a description of his social inability to fit into a society that he may have been academically trained for but not socially.
Develops a fictional character who he finds a real person to be that character.
His fixation develops to such an extent that he seems to lose his grip on reality.
A gentle bumberling story which carries you along and makes me wonder about my potential to be that character.
Jill was Philip Larkin's first novel, written when he was 21 and just out of Oxford.
Socially awkward and inexperienced, he finds he is sharing rooms with the upper class Christopher Warner, whose brash loutish behaviour both intimidates and attracts him.Jill is a subtle and moving account of a young man facing the big issues of life - sex and class - and retreating into the world of the imagination.
In effect, Jill is about Larkin finding himself as a writer - a book about the craft of writing and a young man's journey from boyhood to maturity.
