https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/120726.Grapefruit
Instructions for obtaining, reading, and disposing of GrapefruitBuy this book on amazon with two others for free s&h.
Don’t care you spent too much money because you think this book will make you a better person.See the word “whimsical” on the back cover.
Don’t care to figure it out because you can’t translate crazy.Feel bad for John Lennon.
Then stop thinking because you’ve wasted enough time thinking about this already and you’ve got more important things to do.Don’t do Yoko the pleasure of burning this book like she requests.
Then stop caring and read something else.Forget this book exists.
it is sectioned into 9 "chapters" or so that instruct you on how to create an art piece in a particular genre: music/painting/poetry/event//object/dance/film/etc.
in its range, the book is truly democratic, imagining all the possibilities for experiencing and creating art in so many ways.
because you can "throw it off a high building." (cut piece) i want to re-read this whole thing more carefully, as it really does work as an instruction guide on re-creation from genre to genre, which possibly purifies the work at hand.
Appreciating Yoko as more than John's wife is one of the best things that ever happened to me. The pieces in this book are hit-or-miss for me, but much love for Yoko.For your listening pleasure, some of my favorites: x, x, x.
A rewrite I composed, addressed to my family, based on my experience with Yoko Ono's flowering poetr
It is a piece of incredible artistic work, only because it really allows you into Yoko Ono's thought process.
I think Yoko Ono might appreciate that I didn't, taking it as a sign of individualism, of assertiveness, maybe even rebellion?
Hang it after sleeping on it for more than 100 nights."And some were intimate: "Listen to each other's pulse by putting your ear on the other's stomach."Some instructions your mind couldn't help but follow: "Think that snow is falling.
Think that snow is falling everywhere all the time.
When you talk with a person, think that snow is falling between you and on the person.
Let’s Piece I500 Noses are more beautiful thanone nose.
Even a telephone no.
is morebeautiful if 200 people think of the same number at the same time.a)let 500 people think of the sametelephone number at once for a minute at a set time.b)let everybody in the city thinkof the word “yes” at the same timefor 30 seconds.
Do it often.c)make it the whole world thinkingall the time.1960 springI’ve been carrying this book around with me for a month and a half.
I need more time with it, though.
Yoko is amazing and it’s too bad that she’s demonized in popular media because of unapologetic racism and misogyny.
So many people are missing out on what she’s trying to communicate.
I can't believe these reviews! To people who hated it and who hate Yoko Ono: wtf have you ever done that made me feel good about life? Have you ever slowed down time through the economy of words? Have you ever made me wonder? Yoko Ono likes simple words everyone can understand arranged in small, beautiful koans! Little bouquets of language! Just like flowers! You have to stop and smell them!!! What's not to understand/like? I love this!! GTFO!
Fuck . I've never hated someone so much.
I became aware of this book because of my interest in the Beatles and John Lennon. Yoko Ono's art is one of those things that you either love or hate. I happen to love it. This is a book of instructions...little koan-like thoughts like; "imagine the clouds dripping. Dig a hole in your garden to put them in." Some of them are bizarre, some of them are poetic, some of them are painful, but they are all thought-provoking and beautiful - just like Yoko. Read this, and you'll understand why John fell in love with her...and you will too.
Sometimes I laughed with it and sometimes at it (I am a bad person) but I always enjoyed reading it.
oh Yoko!
Evocative. People should give this a try!
And if the book doesn’t have a plot or a story, and it’s not particularly easy to understand, then I depend on its lyrical language.
I.Find a bus stop.Board the first bus that comes along.Sit in an empty seat at the back.Either wait for someone to sit next to you, or turn to whoever is already sitting in the nearest seat.Covertly stare at them.Now imagine that somehow you’re related through love, blood, or friendship.This will vary depending on who you are, and who they appear to be.For example, I once imagined the man sitting next to me was my boyfriend.This was because he was especially ugly.I guess I though it would be a worthwhile challenge.Regardless of who you pretend this stranger to be, it’s important to imagine where you’re going together in detail.I imagined we were on the way to the supermarket to buy groceries for dinner.I imagined his name was Henry and, like me, he was twenty-one years old.
I was probably just learning about Fluxus in general at the time.
This is "A book of instructions + drawings by Yoko Ono" & it exemplifies Fluxus short performance index card scores - such as the ones also explored by George Brecht.
I have "LIGHT PIECE" circled in pencil: "Carry an empty bag.
Hang the bag in the middle of your room in place of a light bulb." Love it.
Ono's comment was something to the effect that 'there are many ways to walk on something' as her way of saying that the guy was an asshole.
Destroy the originals.1964 Spring*I was inspired to read this book after sitting through brunch with a middle-aged dude who spent the whole pancake course sh*tting upon Ono, specifically for her bizarre (but, I would claim, intentionally subversive and hilarious), screeching performance as a backup singer for John Lennon and Chuck Berry's otherwise standard duet of "Memphis, Tennessee".
People portray her as a manipulative leech who "stole" John Lennon away from his band and his fans, but she was a groundbreaking artist in her own right, as creative as John within her medium.
In this playful book of “instructional poems,” Yoko Ono allows readers to become participants of their own sensory experience.
Words and scattered drawings make up this abstract but pleasant book, where Yoko will tell the reader to do something to enhance life: “Steal a moon on the water with a bucket./ Keep stealing until no moon is seen on the water.” Or, “Carry a bag of peas./ Leave a pea wherever you go.” This style of writing allows the reader to conceptualize the act, and be there with her.
I chose this book for teens because I think teens will be interested in her unconventional, experimental poetry.
Revisitar este libro después de leer el ACORN representa un contraste y a la vez una proeza:Si algo tiene de sobra Yoko Ono, es paciencia y ver las líneas que trazó aquí para ser reflejadas 50 años después en el otro es algo digno de tomar en alto aprecio.Este libro (objeto) es muy bueno y si ACORN nunca hubiera sido publicado, sería el mejor, pero el tiempo ha vuelto refinados sus gustos, sus palabras exactas.
En el otro lado del espejo, el publicado 50 años después, es algo fino, una delicadeza.Si fueran música, este sería punk, el otro sería un vals.Maravillas cada uno.
Geniales en conjunto.
So you still think Yoko broke up the Beatles? Get over it. One great way to do so would be reading this book. It's quick, light, and madly creative. The book consists of a catalog of performance art pieces for you to try -- most of which are completely impossible. One I try to practice is imagining snow is falling all the time. It's the heat of the summer, and I am certain my fellow Texans will agree that this is refreshing.
Oh, Yoko. What will we do with you? I'm a huge huge fan of Yoko's music but this book just seemed silly to me. I dislike things (and people) that tell me to be still and breathe for a minute, and that that will change my life. I'll do that when I feel like it, thanks! I suppose I'm glad it exists...even though I DIDN'T burn it after reading as instructed, out of spite.
Those who expect to find a cute story or anectode like Patti Smith's "Just Kids" or those who know the exact definition of art and are really really sure that Yoko Ono's work is not it, will be highly disappointed with this book. If you don't expect anything from the book, it can be quite interesting.It made me happy. While reading it, I looked at the sky a lot more than usual.
Man, whatever Yoko says.... Seriously, most people don't know (or outright deny) that Yoko was far more famous an artist than John. I bought this book a a joke, but it is actually really great. Yoko is a brilliant woman. And the Beatles were going to break up anyway. So eat that!
if you're feeling aimless or a little lost, you can always pick up GRAPEFRUIT and let ono offer an assignment. they are verbal, visual, imaginative, hopeful and productive. ono is a tender writer and a fierce instructor.
Well I wasn't prepared 100% for what this book was about to offer, but it's safe to say that at the end I was left with a big smile on my face and with a lot of paint and color plastered on my mind.In this beautiful conceptual collection of collages of words and images, Yoko Ono seeks to challenge the readers mind through the use of play, of taking the mind of a person and splashing it against the canvas of the 'real' world.
One of my favorite books.
"To the Wesleyan People" would have been helpful first as it explains her views on art and what she hoped to achieve with her events vs happenings, also add to that her ideas about mind music and perception - which is almost like a meditation on finding zen in a small repetitive action.
Otherwise it's pretty hit or miss for me as far as an art concept book goes - some are interesting thoughts that could be the seed of stories and others just come across as fooling around for the sake of it.
Grapefruit captures that spark and sense of possibility that she and the '60s had, and it transports you to another time and another way of thinking.Grapefruit is an early example of Postmodern conceptual art, and takes the form of a series of brief "event scores." Simply put; each piece proposes an activity intended to produce an artwork or performance.
However, Yoko puts a whimsical twist on this: many of her pieces are simply impossible to perform.
I originally thought of doing this review as a cute and clever list, mimicking the style of Yoko Ono's experimental text.
The cuteness persists in the oddball scraggly drawings and a strange and thought provoking series of instructions.
Though the word 'cute' kept coming to mind, I didn't find the work cloying.
I recognized one of Yoko's performance pieces in an instruction to let the audience cut one's clothes off with scissors, so that was kind of cool - to read about something I've seen a video of and studied in relation to performance art.
But I enjoyed this work for what it is (as if one can really 'know' what the hell is going on in anything by Yoko).
I have a lot of love for Yoko Ono, but I struggled with this book as it seemed uncharacteristically self-serving.
Though not my favorite of her works, it did produce a few gems for me within it.
Grapefruit is a book that I assume many people would disagree on and maybe in that way, it is a successful work.1// VENUS OF MIRO PIECEHand out small portions to people whocome to see.Ask them to polish them at home.Ask them to bring them back in fiftyyears to put the Venus together again.1964 spring2// A dream you dream alone may be a dream, but a dream two people dream together is a reality.3// It's also nice that we share the air.No matter how far apart we are,the air links us.-from AIR TALK4// Dance Reportin the old east there was a dance in which young girlsat the age of 12 or 13 wore specialintoxication flowers inducing them to sleepwhile standing.
I will always have a soft spot in my heart for Yoko and this collection of imagination.
Yoko gives instructions for observing and appreciating the world around you.
There are many pieces here that could form the basis for beautiful and productive meditations, ways to explore internal imagery, as well as physical, activity-based creative interventions.One of her sets of instructions asks you to poke a pin through a canvas and then hold it up to your face and look through the pinhole at your friends.
You can pass the canvas around and everyone gets a chance to look through the pinhole.
Este libo cambio mi vida cuando lo lei por primera vez a los 15 años. Fui a hacer el pedido a la libreria porque era imposible de conseguir, y me trajeron la primera edicion en español por un precio ridiculo (demasiado barato, aunque bastante deteriorado). Desde entonces lo tengo siempre a mano, leyendo un par de instrucciones por dia, siempre con una reflexion diferente. Gente que no tiene afinidad con la literatura experimental, abstenerse.
