https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/75291.Art_as_Experience
And because her playing incorporates a mastery and control of a particular technique (flute playing) and expression of emotions and feelings with others, it is a powerful artistic form of human communication.Expanding on this example, a key concept for Dewey is ‘continuity’, that is, how all of life within the universe is part of a dynamic rhythm, forever alternating between disequilibrium and equilibrium, tension and resolution.
Thus, for Dewey, viewing art and aesthetic experience as something set apart, restricted to museums, galleries, theaters and concert halls is a modern distortion.Also, along the same lines, Dewey asks, “Why is there repulsion when the high achievements of fine art are brought into connection with common life, the life that we share with all living creatures?
A chair is just a chair, unless the artist can somehow, in the chair's construction, communicate meaning beyond the mere utility of the chair, thus providing an aesthetic experience to the audience: "Without emotion, there may be craftsmanship, but not art"Dewey also separates the art object from that which it represents.
for me, 'practical' is simply the 'practice' of writing, the doing, the words, which do not necessarily or instrumentally achieve a set goal or form or experience- that it is always a 'try' an 'essay'...this is a later addition: i have now read some of dewey's poetry, not enough to review, but it is the exact sort i did not like studying- poetry that is self-consciously using language that is poetic, with rhyme schemes, stanzas, apostrophes, with sentiment rather dominant, but then as admitted i have not really read much poetry so maybe it is actually considered good...
There's no way I can go through the chapters point by point here (I've highlighted something on practically every page), but I'll leave a sample of Dewey's cut-to-the-chase sensibility:"'Imagination' shares with 'beauty' the doubtful honor of being the chief theme in esthetic [sic] writings of enthusiastic ignorance.
Yet if we judge its nature from the creation of works of art, it designates a quality that animates and pervades all processes of making and observation.
When old and familiar things are made new in experience, there is imagination.
When the new is created, the far and strange become the most natural and inevitable things in the world.
He claims, in an even harder book to read, (I know, I know, but its worth the effort) Experience and Nature, that experience itself exhibits aesthetic characteristics (rhythm, flow, spatial and temporal relationships) and only when we understand this will we understand the nature of thinking, joy and fulfillment.
This book lies at the core of American philosophy and one of best gifts that 20th century America has given, unto this point, to humanity.
But just try to read the book, and a few others by Dewey.
But one of the functions of art is precisely to sap the moralistic timidity that causes the mind to shy away from some materials and refuse to admit them into the clear and purifying light of perceptive consciousness." (197) And speaking of anachronisms, unlike critical works published today, this book is not weighted down with endless footnotes or endnotes.
Whether you want to weigh in to a philosophic debate on aesthetic theory, or just browse for inspiration on the function and form of artistic endeavors, you'll find something useful in Dewey's book.
Every page is brilliance--seriously, I am not exaggerating.
Dewey's insights and thoughts are as refreshing and relevant to us today as when the lecture was presented at Harvard (1932).
As I read through the first few chapters, I found myself copying pages of each chapter to use in my classroom.
He provides necessary theory to challenge and discuss the relevancy of education and function of English Education.Nice thoughts:"The moment of passage from disturbance into harmony is that of intense life" (16).
"Most European museums are, among other things, memorials of the rise of nationalism and imperialism" (7).
Every page on this book provides rich perspectives on what we perceive as art, aesthetics and experience - each of them calling for a sound discussion.
This would be a great read for anyone who's curious about learning why they experience what they experience in the way they experience (in my opinion not limited to art or aesthetics).I took a long time to complete this book mainly because of the cognitive load that each line put on me :-).
I'm certain I'm only half way in truly understanding every bit of what he wrote and will certainly read the book again after a few years to learn what changed in my understanding of his teachings.
It may be better for you to just stop reading, buy a copy, and struggle through it.
Today, at risk of coming off as expressing misplaced epistemological confidence, I feel fairly confident in saying that I understand what art is, and how it functions, on a fundamental level.
Dewey starts the book with a shoutout to cartoons and 'jazzed music,' which he (quite controversially for the time) calls some of the most exciting mediums of his day.
Dewey might say that I have an impulsion, but (as shown by the literary-review tropes above) not mastery enough of the medium to produce a work that expresses it.
Dense. I love reading through this, taking time and careful reflection.
"Mountain peaks do not float unsupported; they do not even just rest upon the surface. The ARE the earth in one of its manifest operations."
I slogged through this text, but after reading am thoroughly entrenched in Dewey's philosophy and theory about art as experience. Her writes in a manner that is accessible, but this material is dense and not exactly riveting. If you are reading Dewey with an academic or theoretical framework in mind, then you won't be disappointed.
I was always going to give this book 5 stars from reading bits and pieces before actually now finally reading it front to back. It is an astounding accomplishment in aesthetic theory written with two feet placed firmly on the ground, in the true pragmatist style that Dewey involved himself with. In summation, I feel, it takes or removes the magic from art and leaves only the essence, and essence is all that is ever needed to make and/or view art.
"Art celebrates with peculiar intensity the moments in which the past reinforces the present and in which the future is a quickening of what now is." (17)"'Spontaneity' is the result of long periods of activity, or else it is so empty as not to be an act of expression." (75)"There are values and meanings that can be expressed only by immediately visible and audible qualities, and to ask what they mean in the sense of something that can be put into words is to deny their distinctive existence." (77)"In other words, art is not nature, but is nature transformed by entering into new relationships where it evokes a new emotional response." (82)"Every work of art 'abstracts' in some degree from the particular traits of objects expressed.
Thanks John Dewey for writing this book, even more because it was written in 1934.This should be obligatory read for anyone studying/researching Art Communication.
Before the domain of Communication Sciences even existed, before Emotion Studies were seriously accepted by the academy, Dewey has written a profound and dense work on the subject of Art Experience.
It was done from a philosophical approach, however Dewey, clearly influence by his Pragmatics companion, William James, the father of Functional Psychology, does a magnificent cognitive analysis of the relation between the Art Work and the Subject Receptor.
What a wonderful book! Aesthetics, as perceived by John Dewey, is more than just philosophy; is, as Baumgarten stated, the science of perception, while Art is perhaps the most sublime expression of human aesthetics. Moreover,Dewey reminds us that art is not exclusive to art galleries, museums, or expensive collections but is born in our daily experiences. A brilliant work, written in an elegant, dynamic style!
Super verbose to the point where he'd spend pages to get to a single point. The author's writing style was also very dry and hard to wrap my head around. I had to read this for a class, and I was reading it early and I'm glad I did because I could not be able to finish this quickly. I often could only read a few pages a day and call it major progress. If I wasn't reading this for a class, I'd never ever read this book and do not recommend it.
I think part of the resonance is because I read the book once 20 years ago and sort of understood it, and over the past two decades have experienced experience in a way that was only somewhat consciously shaped by this work.
And articulated far better than anywhere else I’ve seen in modern spiritual writings.The poverty of lived experience - if it is not fully integrated with the senses and objects and the world - is a big theme for Dewey.
Great observer, not a great writer. It takes time to get used to Dewey's heavy hand but then you are treated to a well nuanced exploration of relationship between the audience and the piece of art be it poetry, painting, music.
Another text that has changed my understanding about art and living. This text helped me to continue to emphasize the importance of the arts and the imagination in school. Dewey clearly demonstrates how art is a natural and important part of life.
Ouch, this is a tough one. Some very memorable and useful pieces swimming in the sea of concepts. I've never felt so stupid reading a book in my life!
Dewey shows how Art is not a specialized realm, but is rather at play in all ordinary experience.
Profound and sensible.
I would give this 6 stars if I could. Had to read most of it twice because John Dewey was way smarter than I might ever be! Killed 8-10 highlighters on this one.
There is merit in Dewey 'holistic' perspective as he always seeks continuities within the flow of temporal and social life; likewise, while emphasizing the environmental and embodied nature of aesthetic experience, he manages to avoid any physicalist reductionism.
Dewey seems to have had a reactive distaste for any sort of contemplative / meditative forms of life, and consequently suffered a certain blindness to the value of contemplation as itself a meaningful aesthetic practice.
(See recent neuroscience studies on the practical effects of mindfulness meditation, for instance, various forms of monastic practice, or the idea of 'prayer as art').
It obviously wasn't too bad if I'm using it, but that doesn't mean it was enjoyable!John Dewey is a fascinating educational figure that I did not learn about until my doctoral program, which is horrifying since I've been in education for years now and hold multiple degrees in it.
He pioneered learner-center classrooms and utilizing the arts for learning, and this book does dabble in the effect the arts can have on students, especially while creating.
But it's long and the majority of it is length semi-poetic prose on examples of great works of art, and my students aren't going to be creating a Mona Lisa in my English classroom.
I have read many books, treatises, and articles about the arts and aesthetics.
As a musician and humanities teacher, however, many philosophic/aesthetic approaches have fallen short of my own personal experiences with performing, engaging in, and teaching the arts to students.
Dewey has a wholistic approach that opens the door for many kinds of experiences and many types of art that are all valid and all deserve a place at the table.
His definition of art and his wholistic, flexible approach most closely comes to the truth of the nature of art (in my experience).
Opera eccezionale, in grado di offrire sia un'analisi approfondita dell'esperienza artistica in chiave filosofica (mirabile l'intuizione di separare l'esperienza dall'oggetto, così come le osservazione sul rapporto artista / fruitore), sia delle osservazioni fondamentali sul rapporto tra esperienza artistica e società.
"The artist's work proceeds not from a finished imaginative experience to which the work of art corresponds, but from passionate excitement about the subject matter." - Samuel Alexander, quoted in this book
There is so much information.This is remaining on my side table so I can pull it up to reread whenever.READ THE REVIEW BELOW BY "FOREST"; it is comprehensive and he's put more work into his review than I could.
