https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/175847.The_Return_of_Don_Quixote
Reading a Chesterton novel is like sampling an expensive wine or eating a rich dessert; it must be taken slowly, and every bit must be savored.
Reading The Return of Don Quixote was my chance to really sample a piece of literary greatness.
This was one of the best books I've read in a while.Combining Wodehousian hyjinx with Cervantian flair, and a style that is all his own, Chesterton creates a unique and fulfilling novel that must be read more than once to be fully appreciated.
Set in 20th-century Britain. Only thematically related to Cervantes' Don Quixote.
de adım adım, içindeki tüm insanların ahlaksız addedildiği ve DÖNÜŞÜMLÜ olarak cezalandırıldığı, polislerinin de kendilerini TAVANSIZ, DEVASA VE KURALSIZ BİR HAPİSHANEDEKİ GARDİYANLAR olarak kabul ettiği bir dünyaya düşmüştü.-Bunu yaşamınız boyunca her sabah yaparsınız; bir gün bile FARKLI BİR ŞEY YAPMAYI DÜŞÜNMEZSİNİZ, bir gün bile eski zaman peygamberleri gibi Tanrı'ya haykırarak üstünüzü başınızı parçalamak içinizden gelmez.
...İnsanlarımız genel olarak beyefendiler tarafından yönetilmeyi seviyor, ama kimse bir TEK BEYEFENDİ tarafından yönetilme fikrine dayanamıyor.-Ben BEYEFENDİLERE pek saygı duymam, çoğu eski kafalıdır.
Ama bu beyefendiler yaklaşık 300 SENEDİR bu adayı, hiç kimse asla ne yapmaya çalıştıklarını ANLAMADIĞI için, oldukça başarılı bir şekilde yönettiler.
I didn't enjoy this book as much as I thought I would. I love Chesterton, so I will have to revisit this one.
Due to appear in the play as a troubadour, he pulls out when the strike is called, precipitating an attempt to have 'him taken down a peg' by Olive Ashley, an unconventional upper class girl who appears to dislike him, but of course loves him.
So she calls on the aid of their shared friend, the irrepressible Monkey.Getting himself mixed up in the play, the strike, and eventually the highest echelons of British politics is Michael Herne, a crusty old librarian and esoteric scholar.
Epigrams, wordplay and bon mots abound, with just deserts being dispensed to both the right and the left, the upper and lower classes.
Quintessential Chesterton, more overtly religious than 'Thursday', better plotted than 'Napoleon' - I wonder why this novel is so less remembered than the others?
It doesn't have quite so much of his wonderful weather and sky descriptions, but is as based on paradox as ever, as full of delightful characters, and is better on man/woman relationships than usual - here he is with a passage between one of his couples:"People are often very misleading when they talk about themselves; even when they are perfectly honest, and even modest, in talking about themselves.
But people tell a great deal so long as they talk about everything except themselves.
Chesterton with his love of medievalism, matrimony and puns. *sigh* His puns are perfect. His characters are lovable - against all odds. His favourite argument was turning things inside out. He turns his readers inside out, too, but somehow it always feels like the right side is up. I want to ride a hansom cab, search for illumination paint and marry an English gentleman who dares to be deathly idealistic.
A weird story, with moments of rich profundity, as was Chesterton's habit in his fiction. This was my favorite bit: "For worries are never anything but worries, however we turn them round. But a sorrow is always a joy reversed."
The Return of Don Quixote is as lyrical as they come, because as in all Chesterton's works, the victor of the struggle between human, happy Catholicism and cold, blank modernism is the Catholic hero; in this case an El Greco-esque Boanergis who literally goes mad from reading medieval literature (though, significantly, true medieval histories, and not inflated knight-romances,) and wanders the countryside tilting, not with the giants presented by windmills, but with the giants presented by Nietzsche, Bernard Shaw, and H.G. Wells.The characters walk the groove of a thundering narrative in a kind of sing-song twilight of fairy land and mystic recall of King Arthur, such that you can hear ravens calling, but can also hear motor cars revving behind them.
Reading a Chesterton novel, one is captivated not by the plot -- which, if I'm honest, is often poor -- nor by the characters -- who lack depth as people -- but by the ideas.
In much of this novel one is all too aware that Chesterton is making a point; it is almost allegory.
It's also great fun, and Chesterton has a real skill for description, but I wish it was less uneven as a novel.
As it is, I'd frankly rather read his non fiction.
His novels are attractive as weird fantasias, but they are not that good as novels; whereas his philosophy is brilliant philosophy.
Chesterton's dedication calls the book a "parable," and though the setting is realistic, many implausible things happen--so that Chesterton can, through the story, let you know how much is wrong with the society he lives in. It's fascinating to see how many of the very same things are still wrong with ours, in spite of years of political upheaval. Like nearly all Chesterton, the book is intensely Catholic in outlook.
Честертон остроумно переносит прошлое в настоящее, и голосом своего героя выносит свой приговор: "Сервантес считал, что романтика гибнет, и место ее занимает разум.
Нам нужен человек, который верит в бой с великанами." Он выворачивает привычные вещи наизнанку и задает вопросы, на которые так не хочется отвечать:Он встал и показался выше, чем был до сей поры.– Я больше не король и не судья, – вскричал он, – но рыцарем я остался!
Плуты и бродяги, где вы украли ваши шпоры?Где мы украли наши шпоры и почему дон кихотов так мало в этом мире, где никто уже давно не верит в бой с великанами?..
A complex and magnificent book written by the famous writer, G.K. Chesterton. It is many layered. Initially, it might feel that you are sinking into a cake, a huge complicated cake of different layers of sponges, fruits, creams and you may feel it challenging to keep track of the various kinds of threads of issues, skilfully interwoven to make compelling reading. There is abruptness and surprises, religion and politics, psychology and feelings. Very colourful, very evocative of medieval times, and well etched characters. You may find it hard initially but it is thoroughly enjoyable.
Typical Chesterton.
http://soveryvery.wordpress.com/2014/...
