https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50831.The_Green_Hills_of_Earth
Sexist – and wonderfully, absolutely Heinlein.His 1951 collection of “Future History” short stories, all written in the 1940s, represents some of his earlier works.
Fans of his juveniles will especially like this publication.Modern readers will point to stories like "Delilah and the Space Rigger" and "Space Jockey" and will scream that Heinlein was a male chauvinist pig; but progressive for his time Heinlein was carrying Rosie the Riveter into space and expanding her importance in a later, progressive culture."The Black Pits of Luna" and "It's Great to Be Back!" describe plucky Lunar dwellers with a pioneering soul.
"—We Also Walk Dogs" is a pragmatic and sanguine exploration of future capitalism and libertarianism; and this story, to me at least, demonstrates what is best about Robert A.
Heinlein.
Under Dubya, the US had a goal to repeat Apollo (more or less) by 2020, but funding has been cut and it's almost certainly not going to happen.
The only manned space program which ended up looking the least bit like Heinlein's vision was the Soviet one.
Things are so bad that the US will soon have to rely entirely on Russian spacecraft to provide transport to the Space Station, unless there's a last-minute change of plan and the Shuttle is not retired next year.However could that have happened?
Both were staples at the time even though RAH probably knew by then they weren't like that at all even if it wasn't until 1962 that Mariner 2 flew by Venus & 1965 that Mariner 9 flew by Mars, a couple of decades after most of these stories were written.There were some old social references, too.
So what is it like for the pilots of spaceships?"The Long Watch" (1949; originally published in The American Legion Magazine) This story gives me chills each time.
The ending is magical, but it's still a good story."The Green Hills of Earth" (1947; originally published in The Saturday Evening Post) features poetry by RAH.
People are still people, although they've traded in their cars for spaceships.Some of the stories are a bit dated, such as "Delilah & the Space Rigger" - what happens when a girl shows up to work on a space project with an all boy crew?
It's still a fun read.Most of the stories are good, clean fun, with a large element of suspense, such as a boy lost on the moon & his brother the boy scout helps in the search.
If you've lived on the moon, is it really good to be home again?
The title story is about Rhysling, a spacer who lost his eye sight to shoddy maintenance & finally bums a ride home.
This is an early collection of stories by Heinlein. As a Heinlein fan, I found some of them corny and dated, but others were not bad. They seemed to improve as I progressed through the book.
This collection of short stories is classic Heinlein.
That is to say, sexism, chauvinism, rocketry without computers, a bit of magic, and heaps of bravery.
Like the guy who wouldn't let girls on the space station, or the guy who planned to nuke Earth from Luna.My favorite scene was in that later story, where the hero sacrifices himself.
(Yes, I'm a sucker for bravery.) The narrator of the story is revealed to be telling a tale about the monument to the hero.
That places it in a more credulous realm, for me, somehow.The title story is about a folk singer in space.
Yep ... I love the stories of Robert A. Heinlein. Got a problem with that?The Green Hills of Earth, the titular short, and Logic of Empire are particularly excellent.
Suggested Alternate Title: SPACE BARD--PORT TO PORT"I pray for one last landingOn the globe that gave me birth;Let me rest my eyes in the fleecy skiesAnd the cool, green hills of Earth."This "Future History" short story is essentially an account of the life and death of a renowned minstrel named Rhysling--a man who'd worked haphazardly on many a space mission until a radiation accident left him blind and he continued making his way by playing his accordion, writing songs, and hitch-hiking his way around the solar system.
The story focuses on one in particular--which he happened to put the finishing touches on at the end of his life.
This a another of the very few Robert Heinlein short story collections. They ten stories are all quite good. Speical favorties of mine among the then stories are "The Green Hills of Earth" and "Ordeal in Space".Heinlein's short stories are not as well known as his novels, but he is a good story teller whether writing novels or short stories.
This is a fantastic short story. I came to love "Noisy" from his appearances as a minor character in other Heinlein stories, but this this short piece describing his history and heroic end always gets me right here.
I first read this book about fifty years ago (my Dad had the Shasta 1951 first edition with the Hubert Rogers cover and the Future History timeline printed on the end pages), and I'm sure I've read all of the stories at least two or three times again in the intervening years.
His vision of the future was optimistic and hopeful overall, not so accurate because he was too hopeful, but he was never trying to be a prophet, just tell good stories and teach his readers something.
3.5A collection of short stories in his Future History series. I quite enjoyed most of these, but couldn't get into The Green Hills of Earth. They seem quite dated in many ways, and of course sexist, but still fun.
This had been one of the books that Heinlein was known for, in one version or another.
Heinlein's strength I think was in novel length books, not short stories, which this is.
The book is dated both scientifically (which likely Heinlein would be among the first to acknowledge) and sociology.
One example was how in the last story: "Logic of Empire", he uses the N word deliberately as a synonym for slave.
This concept appears in several of his books and I completely disagree.
He never really considered women the equal of men.
My choices of best stories are not likely the same as others.
With 10 short stories Heinlein tells tales filled with problems that are common to those in a complex society, especially those that might deal with complex technologies.
The last story deals with someone who believes that contract labor cannot devolve to something akin to slavery, thoroughly backed up by a corrupt legal system, then gets drunk and, presumably on a bet, ends up on a labor ship bound for Venus and experiencing first-hand the effects of one of those contracts.
I was born with almost perfect teeth--except for one canine which was a bit bent out of line.
It worked well enough to allow the resulting cavity at the root to fill with fluids and become infected, leading to a tremendous fever which hit during the last week of junior high.
The swiftly suppressed look of horror on her face at the sight of my swollen, purple one remains vivid to this day.Another memory of that period, of the time after the fever had abated enough to read again, is of picking up The Green Hills of Earth.
1977 grade A1994 grade A2018 grade A-Ten stories ranging in length from 9 to 41 pages. Six at Grade A and four at Grade B. Some are rather out of date but still good.Abbreviated titles, grades, page count, and notes:Deliah... A- 11Space Jocket A 16 out of date but goodLong Watch A- 13 sad but very goodGentlemen... A+ 9Black Pits... B 12It's Great... B- 16"--We Also..." A- 21Ordeal... A+ 14Green Hills... B+ 10 sad but goodLogic of... B- 41 out of date
A series of short stories connected to Heinlein's future history and all mentioning or taking place in Luna City (Moon colony) at some point. I liked the last novella, The Logic of Empire, the most. It tells a story how slavery seems inevitable in colonization of planets. There is a wide array of types of tales here, some about adjusting to the moon, the technological challenges of meetings from people from different gravitational constants, marriage issues, overcoming agoraphobia, etc.
I am a fan of Robert Heinlein's novels and consider "Stranger in a Strange Land" a must read for, well, everyone.This collection of very old, very dated pulp fiction really should be set aside for fans only. Each story (with the exception of the final,longer piece) is a single event, simple often predictable plot often featuring a single anachronistic idea. Unless you are trying to read all of Heinlein's work, there is better material out there more worthy of your time.
This is a fun anthology of short stories by Heinlein. All of the stories revolve around colonization of planets in our solar system. The themes are not about the technology, but about contemporary problems and dilemmas that we still have today; indentured service as slavery, prejudice against women in the workplace, young brats given too much freedom and too little discipline, phobias, and more. These contemporary themes help to explain the "staying power" of Heinlein's stories.
Die meisten Kurzgeschichten in dieser Sammlung sind eher unspannend und wirken so dahin geklatscht. Ich hatte nicht das Gefühl, dass es hier wirklich darum ging, eine Idee zu thematisieren. Einzig "Auktion auf der Venus" scheint mit einem konkreten Vorhaben geschrieben worden zu sein, wobei ich hier in Frage stelle, ob die Geschichte überhaupt einen Science-Fiction.Rahmen benötigt.Alles in allen sehr mäßige Kost, die zwar schnell gelesen, aber auch schnell wieder vergessen ist.
Classic Heinlein short stories. One minute I think its dated, but then I remember he wrote it 60/70 years ago. Despite trying to take on some heavier themes, it has a certain innocence that is charming. And more than anything a cracker of a title!
Some great stories here. You know it. I know it.
The stories are really interesting in that although they’re set in the future, they’re still so ‘50s.
Occasionally there are details in a story that seem so odd, and then you remember that, oh yeah, these were written before humans had actually been in space, and then the things he got right seem all the more prescient.
For example, people smoke everywhere in space, which just seems preposterous now, and there are aliens from almost all the planets in our solar system, as well as human settlements.
You should be forewarned that the stories in this book were written in the 1940’s and you will find many things in it therefore insensitive.
If you are able to read on with that grain of salt, you will find thought provoking insight along the way.
I wonder if Heinlein was aware of his time and how to best edge us all closer to the possibilities of the future.
The last story left me really considering my own stances on how the world would best be changed.
I will leave the details for you to find in your own way.
Really enjoyed this dated work of science fiction.
It was especially fun to read with my daughter, partly because the timeline placed these fantastically futuristic stories in the recent past (it was written in the 40s, when our time was still so very distant), and partly because of the really outdated social aspects of the stories, especially their treatment of the female characters (I did run a little damage control to put them into context).
And yet the stories themselves are all actually pretty good.
Heinlein was a terrific writer and this collection of barely-related short stories showcases his craft well.
The Green Hills of Earth by Robert Heinlein is classic SF at its best. All these stories are solid, and I had only read one prior. All of the tales are about near Earth space travel, and was first published in 1951, most of the stories having first appeared in the classic pulps of the day. My top three in this one are "Delilah and the Space-Rigger," a tale about chauvinism in space, a topic well before its day, and "The Green Hills of Earth" and "Logic of Empire." Recommended, as is all of this Grand Master’s work.
Good Heinlein; not his best, but it offers multiple perspectives and situations that do a good job of showcasing his creativity, wit, and ideology. In some ways it was reminiscent of Bradbury's Martian Chronicles, in that this handful of short stories all take place in the same universe, in the same section of our solar system, and show multiple facets of a larger story; but where Bradbury tends towards the poetic, with his beautiful descriptions and use of language, Heinlein is terse, and his sharp wit and insights cut and poke the status quo.
Listened to on CD. Tom Wiener is by far one of my favorite narrators. His different voices that he uses for the various characters is brilliant! Made listening to this a real treat.  Read most of these when I was a kid in the early 80s. Really enjoyed them again as an adult. Logic of Empire ended rather abruptly. Would've liked to hear more on the Heinlein's answer to slavery in regards to economics.
Around the Year in 52 Books 2018 Reading Challenge. A book whose title includes 1 of the 4 elements: EarthThis is a collection of short stories by Heinlein about space travel, life in a space station, in Luna, and on other planets and/or moons. Somewhat political. With regard to technology remember the year in which it was published.
Book #16 out of #21. The short story originally appeared in The Saturday Evening Post (February 8, 1947). "We pray for one last landingOn the globe that gave us birth;Let us rest our eyes on fleecy skiesAnd the cool, green hills of Earth."This song is mentioned in four other Heinlein novels: "Time enough for love", "Farmer in the Sky", "Logic of Empire" and "Universe".
