https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/316362.Operating_Manual_for_Spaceship_Earth
What, forty-four years on, is the future of Spaceship Earth?
This idea rightfully endures.
I must, however, disagree with his future characterization of the earth as a spaceship - that would imply some military hierarchy, international cooperative order, strict roles and assigned positions.
Some strange attempts at metaphysics.
Idyllic plans for attempting to rewrite human nature.
You start to wonder if he's lost it.I end with Fuller's closing words:"Go to work, and above all co-operate and don’t hold back on one another or try to gain at the expense of another.
They are not man-made laws.
Fuller definitely overextended and exaggerated a few generalizations about world history and specialization to make his theory about synergy more unified, but I think part of the exaggeration also has to do with him having to present a very urgent and complex thesis in a short space of paper.
For example, I don't think Fuller wants to throw specialization out the window completely; I think he just wants to avoid us veering toward this absolutism where we're so nearsighted that we can't see the integrated effects of what we're doing.
I don't agree with Fuller that resources are unlimited, but I do think this kind of structure would definitely increase what we're able to produce and how effectively it's distributed.

Now almost 7 billion, world population has nearly doubled since he wrote this book and has not yet even peaked.Another issue that Fuller wasn’t exactly wrong about, but that he didn’t take fully into account, is that of waste; for example, what to do with all the plastic, such as the Texas-sized mat now floating out in the middle of the Pacific ocean, or nuclear waste (though it must be said that he categorized atoms similarly to fossil fuels as non-renewable capital, to be used only sparingly and then only for start-up purposes).
World economics have been based on false values- as all the gold in the world cannot possibly help to sustain life on our planet! Acclaimed author/inventor/architect Buckminster Fuller reviews the irreducible facts of physics, the fallacy of governments, and an introduction to systems theory.
A regret of youth which may be remediated is that I read so little of Buckminster Fuller. Indeed, this is likely the only complete book of his I finished as a kid and it wasn't even my copy. A friend loaned it to me one night at the Cogswell Dance Studio in Park Ridge which, for a while, served as an informal youth center for the disaffected youth of our community.
One of Cambridge Sustainability's Top 50 Books for Sustainability, as voted for by our alumni network of over 3,000 senior leaders from around the world.
To find out more, click here.Operating Manual for Spaceship Earth is a fascinating combination of Fuller's deep scientific grounding and his philosophical and metaphysical way of looking at the world.
The main thesis of the book is that humanity has been too shortsighted and siloed in its thinking and, as a result, we have lost the ability to see the whole system, the big picture.
He argues that this is the main cause of our impending ecological crisis.
I really wanted to like this book.
But I found that Bucky's arguments were let down by his style of writing.
He has lots of clever, relevant points but they're drowned out in his weird, 'comprehensive' perspective where he keeps going on about universe in a way that seems completely irrelevant to the operating issues at hand.It is a fascinating document, considering it was written in 1968 and doesn't seem that dated.
I would have liked a little less background and a lot more focus on the actual operating manual aspect, which he only touches upon in the last chapter with a whole lot of hand waving.
Although it's not a manual it points to the real manual: yourself. The book is clearly a manifest of world centric perspective showing the need to not exploit the planet but rather value it and play. By valuing the planet we also value ourselves. The books reminds us that our biggest strength is to understand and therefore find a adequate response instead of reacting compulsively to events.
Operating Manual for Spaceship Earth - Bucky FullerAs I have return to serious reading, am devouring the works of Bucky and understanding it in a whole new light.
I got back to his classic work Operating Manual for Spaceship Earth after many years.
If you are a veteran world airlines pilot you may have seen one one-hundredth of Earth’s surface.Spaceship Earth was so extraordinarily well invented and designed that to our knowledge humans have been on board it for two million years not even knowing that they were on board a ship.
The author writes in metaphor describing the people who really run the world as pirates.
Pirates to the author are the only people who really know how the world works; the vast majority of people have no idea how things really work.This book sees the world as complex and interconnected and is one of many books of its time that advocated a holistic approach to life.One thing the author overestimated is computer technology.
Like many of the time he saw what today would be called the singularity happening soon.Overall a great book with only a few outdated ideas.
As a designer and lifelong curious person, this book has been on my must read list ever since learning about the geodesic domes and fullers visions of the future.
The book starts out telling a fascinating tale of the history of accessible knowledge and education.
The middle of the book kind of lost me, then the last chapter, for me made it all worth it.
The last chapter alone is worth everyone reading.
The book was written in 69 but is still so valid today.
He makes so many important points and was trying to get the world to cooperate to save itself 40 years ago.
Interesting read. Three chapters didn't make any sense to me at all and reeked of pseudo-science.
beautiful ideas, not beautiful prose
Fuller was brilliant--and I'm sure his work was suppressed to some degree because he seems politically closer to anarchist and can envision a world of equality for all people--to realize that all sailors were inherently pirates because floating massive tonnage was the lowest energy cost method of moving goods (thus the cheapest, both in terms of labor and fuel).
He seems to believe that the age of pirates ended with the First World War, but the truth seems to be that piracy has expanded greatly and become controlled by the governments with the use of military might (US military bases and ads for our Navy as the world's 'peacekeeper' are ample evidence of this).
But even that is sum totally not enough to see and feel Earth to be a sphere unless, unbeknownst to me, one of you happens to be a Cape Kennedy capsuler."And, also, ironically:"Thomas Malthus, professor of political economics of the Great Pirate’s East India Company"The more scientifically minded readers of this community will probably be plainly appalled at this strange mix that is partially conspiracy theory (Great Pirates!), partially scientifi-mystical prose poem, partially over-optimistic futurism, generally overall weird text.Well, I guess, as with Anarchistic Philosophers, Mystical Writers, Charles Fortean style Conspiracists, and the like...
Ho letto questo breve saggio perche' ne avevo sentito parlare, come di un testo molto influente e originale; non sapevo bene di cosa si trattasse.L'autore, Buckminister Fuller, e' un personaggio molto poliedrico: inventore, designer, con una storia personale unica nel suo genere.La tesi di fondo, provando a parafrasare in poche righe, e' che grazie alle sue capacita' fisiche e intellettive ("meta-fisiche", etimologicamente; ci si riferisce anche, o soprattutto, all'invenzione tecnologica) l'umanita' e' in grado di accrescere esponenzialmente la propria influenza sull'universo, e questo, a sua volta, le consentira' di raggiungere un piu' alto stadio di consapevolezza, fino a porre fine a tutti quegli atteggiamenti irrazionali, retaggio del passato, che attualmente ne minacciano la sopravvivenza: perseguimento della ricchezza finanziaria, logiche di sovranita' nazionale e conseguenti guerre, eccetera.Questa tesi viene discussa con un linguaggio a meta' tra il saggio politico-filosofico ed il formalismo logico-matematico, che ho trovato un po' ostico.
I actually picked the work up after reading, somewhere, his claim about the use of fossil fuels, thinking that he might offer some reasonable arguments against our blatant disregard of our limiting resources.Though this was present to a certain extent I just could not get over the constant reiteration of man's ability to overcome matter.
He cites the laws of conservation of energy and matter as some how helping his case that man's intellect will be able to overcome the problems of limited resources.Though I do value and admire humanities ability to work with what we have and, as he states "constantly do more with less" I think it irrational to believe that we are not limited by our surroundings.
Just getting a grasp on his arguments is difficult enough, even though what I think he is trying to say is fairly simple.We inhabit a closed system called Spaceship Earth, provided with energy by supply ships we call the Sun and the Moon.
Only by learning to live synergistically, which Fuller says we are capable of doing in a crisis, can we unlock our full potential.
This means looking at the Earth as an integrated system.I think the overall argument he presents is sound and thoroughly thought-provoking, if one can look past his wacky ideas and wackier ways of expressing them.
The book is wacky. Like straight cockadoodle.
A historical book worth time, but with some reservationsVirtue signaling at its finest.
The book is well ahead of its time.But, these concepts are not very practical.
Life is not about finding the perfect path or process to follow; life is about finding the best options considering all of you localized limitations.I do believe in his statement that given 100K people the freedom to purely think the ground breaking result of just one would provide for the other 99,999.
Facts have half lives and where he is misguided is reasonable given the time.
What is missing is how do we influence the world to also believe this?
We could use a visionary like Bucky now but he was mostly a thinker and dreamer, we also need people to figure out the logistics, economics and engineering to make his ideas happen.
But we could all take a bit of Bucky's philosophy to look at the big picture and carefully consider our Spaceship Earth."It is also to be remembered that despite the fact that you are accustomed to thinking only in dots and lines and a little bit in areas does not defeat the fact that we live in omnidirectional spacetime and that a four dimensional universe provides ample individual freedoms for any contingencies."
This political manifesto sells the disproven and evil idea that the ecology is a machine that will naturally tend towards harmony.
Disorder, not order, is the result of these ideas.The allure of this book to selfishness, vulnerability to psychopaths, and disenchantment with political process itself, combined with cynicism, makes it especially dangerous, because it ensures citizens who are functionally illiterate about political basics laid out by Plato and Aristotle for centuries.
So the panacea for this book is Plato and Aristotle, who are recommended instead of this book.
There are some enjoyable parts to this book, but the author writes as if he is proceeding through a logical argument while doing nothing of the sort.
Ultimately I didn't get much more out of the book than the ideas that (1) we're on board a spaceship and should treat it as a limited resource and (2) a total is more than the sum of its parts.
Dated, dense philosophical clusterfudge of a book that largely looks at the stability of Earth's population in light of finite resources, climate change, global conflict, etc. Written in the late 60s, clearly not all of the catastrophic predictions have played out 40+ years later, but these predictions/observations are profound. Fuller was clearly forward-thinking, and much of what he suggests remains pertinent and will likely play out in some degree over the 21st century.I didn't seek this one out for its reputation; rather I just saw this on my parents' bookshelf and it peaked my interest.
Admirable for breadth of vision and optimism. Interesting to see how his predictions have or haven't come true. The title is a bit misleading and periodically obnoxious sentences like this show up: "Wealth is the product of the progressive mastery of mind, and is specifically accountable in forward man-days of established metabolic regeneration advantages spelt out in hours of life for specific numbers of individuals released from formerly prescribed entropy-preoccupying tasks for their respectively individual yet inherently co-operative elective investment in further anti-entropic effectiveness."
Food for thought if you can stay awake while reading it. Some good quotes:"...the spoken word, which took a minimum of two humans to develop, was the first industrial tool...The written word, dictionary, and the book were the first information storing and retrieving systems.""...every time man makes a new experiment he learns more. He cannot learn less."thus, under his definition of "wealth" as meaning something more like knowledge or invention:"Every time we use our wealth it increases."
He was a cool big picture thinker who saw the opportunity to rid the world of many problems but because of lack of backing could not get it done. Why do we have incredible funds for war but find environmental policies or social policies too costly? Throughout the book I'm feeling yes I agree! But something even held him up and it bothers me. He was an awesome entrepreneur and technician but I think he was stifled by his communication and politicking abilities. Something I don't want to be stifled by...
Operating Manual for Spaceship Earth is an excellent addition to anyone’s library! This is a brief overview of nearly everything, from an important systems expert futurist. It’s an appropriate book for most readers but the Great Pirates could perhaps be disconcerting for young children. As another reviewer has stated: “this a necessary book”. While it was originally published in 1968, it will still manage to put cryptocurrencies into context for the uninitiated. If you haven’t gotten an opportunity to read this than do so. It shouldn’t be difficult whatsoever for you to find a copy.
Some of it was good, but other parts of it were just too far beyond my understanding, particularly the bit on Synergy. Probably a good read for those with a philosophic or scientific slant to their brains.
