https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/189441.1_Is_One
Just stunning! I love Tasha Tudor and this book is a beautiful display of her signature style of old-timey New England, full of warmth and charm and period details. I appreciated, too, the rhyme scheme and the diction (some of the words, like "rye" and "heath" are ones that many children today may not be that familiar with but in context it works beautifully and can be a good way to learn new words).
I was very disappointed to see that this board book edition is, as it says on the cover, “Abridged from the Caldecott Honor Book” because I wanted to read the full book, but received this edition.The illustrations are fabulous, and make this simple counting book a lovely one. Young children will probably have fun with this board book edition, but I’m off to my library’s web site to see if I can borrow a copy of the full edition. I also want to see just how abridged this edition is.
This is one of the most beautiful illustrated books I've read. The images are soft and lovely. The reader feels like you are reading and falling into a soft, puffy bedspread of pastel colors. I enjoyed this book so much that I'm going to purchase a copy.A 1957 Caldecott honor book, using the numbers one - twenty, and alternating two-page spreads between black on one spread and then color on the next two page spread.This is the first book I've read of Tasha Tudors delightful art work. I will be seeking more.
I had another book by Tasha Tudor that I grew up with, so I enjoyed seeing the familiar illustration style here. Another thing I liked is that this book goes all the way up to 20 (seems most counting books only go to 10), which is nice since my preschoolers seem to have the most trouble with the mid-teens. Not all of the objects are clearly grouped together in an easy way for young kinds to count though, so it hasn't been as interactive as some.
Tudor's illustrations are so delightful, you really should add this to your list of early books for your children. Numbers go up to twenty.Ages: 3 - 7**Like my reviews? I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too. These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't. I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website: The Book Radar.
• Book summary-Counts to 20 while using familiar situations children can relate to. It counts and describes animals, sounds, children, items, and more. Shows children that numbers are everywhere and they can count absolutely anything. • Caldecott Honor Book• Grade level, interest level, Lexile -Pre-K through kindergarten• Appropriate classroom use (subject area) -Use while teaching children how to count up to 20. • Individual students who might benefit from reading -All students can benefit. It
•	Book summary-Counts to 20 while using familiar situations children can relate to.
Children will begin to see all the things they can count around them which will increase practice.•	Small group use (literature circles) -Have students read together and then find something in the room to count.
•	Whole class use (read aloud) -Ask students what can they count at home to open up their minds to the idea numbers are everywhere.
•	Related books in genre/subject or content area-“A time to Keep” is another fun story written by Tasha Tudor.
A Caldecott Honor counting book. Sure it's nice, but there are better counting books. It is showing its age but not really in a bad way. The subjects of the art still work. And the choices for the art are pretty and not trite. But they are also not especially exciting or engaging. And the text is only okay.
A sweet, old-fashioned book with a nicely lyrical poem that helps children learn how to count to twenty. It's also a good book for beginning readers. Its short sentences and cute illustrations are good for them to practice reading while also counting. Our oldest read this one to us at the library.
A lovely little rhyming counting book with charming, old-fashioned illustrations. This one goes from 1 through 20 and each number gets its own spread. The spreads alternate between full color and black-and-white. I'm sure we will be reading this one many times!
This is a counting book by Tasha Tudor which won the Caldecott medal. Read it with an older toddler and try not to both become lost in Mrs. Tudor's soft and detailed art, it is impossible.
Title: 1 is One Author: Tasha TudorIllustrator: ^Genre: Concept Book, Counting bookTheme(s): Numbers, counting, animals, rhymingOpening line/sentence: “1 is one duckling swimming in a dish.”Brief Book Summary: This rhyming number book aids in helping children to identify each numeral from 1 to 20.
Professional Recommendation/Review #1:Marilyn Courtot (Children's Literature) (http://www.clcd.com.ezaccess.librarie...)If you enjoy a book with a bit of nostalgia for a more bucolic time, then this is the board book for you.
The pictures of animals and nature and children communing with it all are pretty and soothing, and very young children will enjoy the rhyme, counting to ten and the details in the illustrations.
Tasha Tudor is the author of this book over simply counting objects and giving illustrations.
Unlike other common counting books in the 2000s, Tudor includes vocabulary you would have heard in the 19th or 20th century, along with similar illustrations.
On the other hand, students in the 21st century in a kindergarten classroom might not know the meaning of these vocabulary so this would be a book that needed more instructional time than other counting books.
I would leave this book for a segment in the classroom that would instruct kindergarten or pre-k students to their numbers and counting items.
This is a classic children's book that I personally don't recall, but it is possible that I read it as a child. beautifully illustrated and presented in a very old style, this introduces the very young person to the idea of numbers.Let's face it numbers are something that is not an automatic principle to grasp, even though it does become second nature, and this does a great job in a very simple way too introduce numbers,Good old classic book.
• 1957 Caldecott Honor Book •The text and pictures seem very dated, but this is charming to me for some reason anyway. The illustrations are really ornate and I think the type is hand-lettered which gives it a really sweet, folksy feel. My favorite illustration is of the cherries. I also like that the numbers go up to 20 - it seems most only go to 10. Materials used: unlistedTypeface used: unlisted
I labeled the book, 1 is One, in the Informational Text: Math genre. It is evident why this book was a Caldecott Honor book through it's simple text that counts from one to twenty and it's super dainty illustrations of animals, nature, and children. It's an easy read and easy on the eye, so it will captivate young readers quickly.
This is a simple counting and rhyming book. Where most counting books go only up to 10, this one goes up to 20. It is very sweet and appealing, with soft illustrations.
very cute illustrations.
"Vintage" illustrations, numbers from 1-20.
Wonderful illustrations
This mathematical picture book explains numbers through twenty by showing an example, telling the numeral value, and telling the word meaning of each number. This book includes detailed illustrations of number examples within nature. This story can help the reader better understand the concept of numbers, visually see what the values mean, and strengthen their comprehension abilities.
Classic counting book. We explore numbers with animals, plants, and children. The illustrations are delightful. Great tool for learning.
It is extremely appropriate for the young child (aged 1-3 years) and would probably be one that is read again and again.b. The strong aspects of this book are its illustrations and its rhyming scheme.
Little ones love to hear the rhythms of a rhyming book and they enjoy pointing out the number demonstrated in the text.
I would probably read it with a child one on one (and allow them to turn the pages) letting them point to and count all the different illustrations as we go.
I have always known of Tasha Tudor, but I think this might be the first book of hers I actually sat down to read.
The concept is simple - 1 is One is a counting book, and each page depicts a number and a scene associated with that number.
I also don't think it's necessarily a very effective counting book.
The objects to be counted aren't easily picked out of every illustration, and the book as a whole doesn't really read as a cohesive unit.
Not as good as the game “3 in Three”.
That game rocks.It's not a bad book, but it's boring and very dated.
I much prefer my books to have some kind of point to them, if not necessarily a message.
A story, perhaps, rather than this book which has a list of things.
I mean, it would help a kid understand the digits corresponding to the word, but beyond that it's just very pastoral, like so many other books from the era.
It really shows its age.For more children's book reviews, see my website at http://www.drttmk.com.
This is a classic book with beautiful illustrations.
This is a counting book, and it is written in verse and rhyme.
2 is two sisters making a wish.” The counting goes up to 20.
The illustrations are the best part of book.
They are classic and look like works of art.
This makes for an interesting effect when turning the pages.
The illustrations are so beautiful that I would put the works on my wall if I had poster versions of them.
I would recommend this book to emergent readers and very young children learning to count.
I had heard of Tasha Tudor in grad school as one of my professors was a huge fan of her work, and we had to watch a video on the author/illustrator in her class.
I have been wanting to read her stuff for years as a result, but never had the time until now.
This book won a 1957 Caldecott Honor.
It is a very cute counting book, up to twenty, with precious illustrations.
My favorite is "9 is nine red cherries on a white china plate" and "12 is twelve baby birds learning how to sing." Highly recommended for ages 1-6, 4 stars.
Tudor alternates pages of paintings with pages of black and white drawings. The watercolor paintings are colorful and bright; the drawings life-like. The animals are fluffy or feathery; the all-white children angelic-looking, and the setting is rural. Each picture, painting or drawing, is bordered by flowers or other plants. The counting text is very simple and the illustrations mostly reflect what the text states. (Caldecott Honor, 1957)
1 is One is a short, charming children's book about counting and rhyming book. Although it is an older book, it is a great way to assist children learning to count to 20-and great practice! The visuals in this book are also great. I know if I was reading this book to the three year old boy I babysit, we would have to stop and count each picture drawn just to make sure the illustrator did not miss count!
A Caldecott Honor Book with pretty illustrations. I liked that it went up to twenty versus just ten and that the items counted weren't common things like balls and cats. The only number I didn't like was the unnatural number 1, which was a duckling swimming in a dish---my first thought was of Peking Roast Duck! Fortunately, the rest of the numbers were quite cute. The illustrations lend themselves to finger counting quite easily and are nicely done.
Published 1956.This is a beautifully illustrated counting book that is just as relevant for young children today as it was when it was originally published more than 50 years ago. Additionally, the rhyme creates a pleasing flow as the reader counts to twenty.Themes include counting and nature.This is a lovely book to read aloud to one or a class full of young children. Focuses for the classroom include counting and rhyme.Highly recommended.
