https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31170723-behave
The book itself covers a wide range of topics, mostly centered around neurology and it's subsequent effect on behavior.
The book then goes into the genetic and evolutionary basis of our behavior and the ways we're predisposed to think about others specifically in groups and out groups.
Sapolsky even talked about a lot of popular nonfiction books I havent gotten around to reading plus the criticisms of them and what the evidence against and for them are.
I learned a lot and I really think I need to read more of Sapolsky's books.
Looking at events a second before a behavior taps into automated and unconscious processes in the brain; seconds before brings in higher neural systems associated with conscious actions; hours to days before is the realm of hormonal influences; days to months before the impact of things like chronic stress and adaptations of neuroplasticity; years and decades before includes the shaping of culture and individual development; and centuries to millennia before the processes of evolution.
No book I’ve read, at least this year, has challenged me the way this one has.
Let’s plunge right in:In the fall of 1990 Iraq invaded Kuwait, and in the run-up to the Gulf War, Americans were sickened by a story that emerged.
But Sapolsky says, never mind, let’s just consider Liberals and Conservatives.
What will we think of how we behave now in 100 years, 500 years?Notwithstanding some annoyances, which I stated above, this really is a remarkable book and highly recommended by me.
Sapolsky is my lord.
But it's next to impossible not to adore.It's basically a textbook for his ridiculously, cosmically good Stanford undergraduate course on the biology of behavior (HUMBIO 160 -Stanford)You're not fully sentient until you have watched all 20+ hours of his lectures from the course (at least once) which are freely available on YouTube.
Or listened to them in condensed form in his absolutely spellbinding audio programs available by Great Courses.
Its biology man.
Sapolsky is a puckish rascal genius.
Sapolsky is an intellectual nonpareil.This is a horrible AF review of the important work of a fuckin' intellectual demigod.FIVE STARS!!!!
In the shortest possible summary, let me start by saying that Behave is a stupendous book, and among the best science books I have read.
This book is certainly a tribute to the remarkable progress science has made in understanding our brain and our behaviours.
I have to admit I have many conflicts I am unable to resolve myself – such as the fact that I find very impressive the progress that science has made as detailed in this book, and yet I am very pained that much of this has come with cruel experiments on animals.
After Sapolsky mentioned a study that I know researchers have failed to replicate, I waited for him to discuss the subsequent controversy.
At that point, I started keeping a tally of "red flags:" studies that have subsequently come under fire, but where Sapolsky fails to acknowledge any controversy about their findings.The ones I noticed:- People behave themselves when there is an eye watching them, even if it's just a painted eye.
Just last week, the NYTimes had a great feature about the replication crisis, told through the story of Amy Cuddy (whose work is also cited uncritically in Behave): https://www.nytimes.com/2017/10/18/ma...I'm not an expert on this stuff, but I still found all these red flags.
There is a lot that underlies human thoughts, decision-making and actions that Sapolsky uncovers for us.
I felt, while reading this book, that I was less than successfully punching above my weight class.
If I had a bit more book learning, I am sure it would have been easier.
This isn’t because Sapolsky discusses the issues using fancy terms to impress his audience.
He even includes (toward the back of the book) a very helpful section on terms and functions.
I don’t regret it and I am sure I will be coming back to various sections as time goes by.
Sapolsky is encyclopedic in his study of humans and their behaviors and thoughts and down to earth in his presentation.
The format, in general, is to look at proximal causes of our behavior starting with immediate causes like the firing of neurons and progressively going farther back in time to cover causes more distant from the present.
This complex and layered picture starts to do justice to our extraordinary species and its multifaceted behavior.
Sapolsky covers much material and ranges widely but ultimately comes back to practical issues, like human development, war and peace, violence, stress and solving problems very serious problems we as people face.
He readily admits to gaps in his/our knowledge about human biology, but he tries, in this mighty interdisciplinary work synthesizing a lifetime of observation and thought, the current state of knowledge and points to areas for further study.Don’t be intimidated by its size or erudition.
Read the story for yourself--plan to read the whole back-end of the book because you won’t be able to stop with Newton—about individuals, ordinary individuals making a difference and doing the right thing.Sapolsky may be a great scientist, but he is great writer and a great teacher.
The first deals with everything that affects behavior: The brain, neurons, neurotransmitters, hormones; environmental factors particularly in adolescence, childhood, and the womb; culture, genes and epigenetics.
No matter how idyllic you paint primitive existence, I could not value it over one where we can develop our minds and build a better future for our children, as hard as that may be.In the second half of the book Sapolsky explores how all the forces that impact human behavior come together to influence the way we see each other and the world.
Seu primeiro livro que li, Memórias de um Primata, explicava como ele fez sua pesquisa com babuínos selvagens, acompanhando os animais e coletando o sangue deles para entender como o estresse e o comportamento deles no bando influenciava o balanço de hormônios no sangue.
E desde então ele tem escrito sobre comportamento e estresse, como o Porque Zebras.Agora, mais de 20 anos depois, ele aproveita toda a experiência na área para escrever uma obra excelente.
Ele compara sociedades, como diferentes etnias lidam de forma diferente com alguns problemas e como temos vários elementos em comum.
This is an important book, which I suspect, will be a classic.
the whole book was dedicated to explaining how our biology and environment interact to give rise to our behavior and what does that implicate for our ethical and social views.
Yet the author vitally made the decision to write in classical style, as the intended reader were lay people.
however, even I, as a person studying this exact field, have had struggled with some challenging parts, as the book is essentially about one of the most complex systems that we know.Fluency: 4/5Style: 5/5Content: 5/5
Of course, that's all wrong, as shown by the temperature of a cup - something processed in the hypothalamus - altering assessment of of the coldness of someone's personality.""...after all, LTP (long-term potentiation) is what occurred in Schopenhauer's hippocampus when he read Hegel, not what the spinal cord does to make you more coordinated at twerking.""Agriculture's invention is one of the all-time human blunders, up thee with, say, the New Coke debacle and the Edsel...and from there it's just a hop, skip, and a jump until we've got Mr. McGregor persecuting Peter Rabbit and people incessantly singing Oklahoma."Quoting Steve Jones: "Evolution is to analogy as statues are to birdshit."He ends each chapter with important bullet points and makes this very complicated work flow seamlessly.
I expected the workshop participants to raise and leave the room, however they only applauded onward as he charismatically spinned the story to his liking.Please educate yourself, use critical thinking and always be skeptical in order not to be fooled and robbed by the likes of them - science is not perfect, however it is undoubtedly better than falling into the traps of cheap generalizations, confirmation biases and short term placebo effects.Reality is very complex so we should acknowledge this and act accordingly.***If you'd like recommendations on books I consider to be good in this area, feel free to ask or just take a look at my 'read' list.****I'm starting to seriously think there should be modern means to teach people how to think and the emergence of Mixed Reality might be a good medium for that.
Without question, this is Sapolsky's best work yet. I have too many pages of notes to synthesize a review that could possibly do this book justice. Review to come when I have more time to write. Meanwhile, put this book at the top of your list! A+
Wow. This book literally covers everything there is to know about evolution, the human brain, behavioral theories, culture, etc. And Sapolsky does it in a fair and humble way. In other words, on the one hand, this and on the other this, but at this point there's more evidence for the latter. He's not selling a pet theory. It's so comprehensive and insightful that I'm mad I've read so many other books in this basic arena.
Definitely for a smarter reader than me.
The writing was very good, but what sounded like a fascinating topic was immensely dry.
Eventually, all the scientific speak led to hypotheses by the author.
Personally, my favorite line of thought was prison time for young offenders.
So, how can we charge 14 year olds as adults?The author kept everything light.
He had lighthearted analogies to maintain the readers attention.
All in all, excellent writing work in my opinion.
However, I found it too mental after a long day at work.
Truly 3 stars is more reflective of me as a reader than Dr. Sapolsky as a writer.
This book explores the biology of violence, aggression, and competition – the behaviors and the impulses behind them, the acts of individuals, groups, and states, and when these are bad or good things. It is a book about the ways in which humans harm one another. But it is also a book about the ways in which people do the opposite. What does biology teach us about cooperation, affiliation, reconciliation, empathy, and altruism? Behave took me longer than average to read – at a rate of about 30
And out of that come three key points: First, you can't begin to understand things like aggression, competition, cooperation, and empathy without biology; I say this for the benefit of a certain breed of social scientist who finds biology to be irrelevant and a bit ideologically suspect when thinking about human social behavior.
Already called "a masterpiece," "a miraculous book," and "the best book I have ever read," by eminent experts, Behave: The Biology of Humans at Our Best and Worst defies further superlatives.
I would happily give it ten stars on Goodreads.
What I loved most about this massive tome, at 717 pages with the important appendices but not including the glossary, abbreviations, notes, and index, is the extraordinary man who wrote it.
This great teacher imparts ideas of enormous complexity without losing us.
A very thick, long, messy, and complicated work (stay tuned) Sapolsky is so fond of digressions that it becomes slightly jarring at times, not to mention his obsessive usage of footnotes (even David Foster Wallace would be envious of his propensity for footnotes!).
He’s a good-humoured guy with a very self-deprecating sense of humour, and there is a lot of it in the book (stay tuned).
It’s made me aware of how humans tend to think, how we are so prone to Us/Them thinking, and just prone to thinking in buckets in general (as Sapolsky calls it).
They prefer holistic views, and are suspicious of any knowledge that has been derived through breaking up a big problem into smaller chunks.
However, the biggest challenge lies ahead in understanding the most complex system we have encountered so far – our mind.
in terms of their science alone.This book is the only one I have read that not only celebrates the great accomplishments of our reductionist approach towards understanding of how the mind works, but also exposes the severe limitations of not appreciating the complexity of all these subsystems when they work together.
But "Nothing seems to cause anything, instead everything just modulates everything else" is probably closer to the truth than the endless internet debates over nature vs nurture.However even though the book is expansive, remembering to critique both sides of the debate (not even Pinker or Ramachandran are spared) while being filled with citation and humorous footnotes, I still had a few minor issues that force me to discount other things as well.
Things like Wellesley effect and Freakonomics explanation of drop in crime rate in US are presented without any remarks about the contentious nature of the findings (largely believed to be false I think, but I could be wrong).
What surprises me the most, it's how many topics this book covered, by the amount of pages if may seem obvious there were many, but when reading it, those pages don't seem to be much for the great work he did.
I think the title is the perfect summary of what this book is about ''the biology of humans at our best and worst'' but of course, to cover that you have to go from cells, genes, evolution to race, politics and wars.
Robert Sapolsky's Behave is a magnum opus: a definitive work from a definitive genius on a topic he leads the world in discussing.
For Sapolsky, it's just the start.
Behave is entrancing, accessible, and infused with a spirited likability that you just can't help but enjoy.
Behave will turn heads and raise controversy in the field of neurobiology, something the field has come to expect from Sapolsky, but Behave will also change science writing.
Gone is the jargon and hundred-watt rhetoric that repels the plebians and ill-informed.
No more tented-fingered, cross-legged analysis.
This may be the definitive book on behavior, but it's a book for everyone
Behave is an ambitious book that seeks to explain human behavior at almost every level of abstraction - what parts of the brain lit up in the second before an action (the lizard-ish amygdala, or the primate-y frontal cortex), what sensory information obtained in the past few seconds to minutes “primed” you for it (if people are shown a random string of positive words, they tend to behave nicely in a cooperative game), what hormones were secreted in the past few hours to days (effects of testosterone, oxytocin etc.), what happened in the years before (say during adolescence or childhood), or in the prenatal period (kids show preference to flavors the mother consumed when pregnant, can hear things and show preference to stories they heard while in the womb etc., the “boy/girl” brain development, connections with sexual orientation / identity), what cultural forces in the last few hundred years shaped the behavior (for example, difference between individualistic and collectivistic cultures), and last, but not the least, how evolution in the last thousands of years influence behavior (ideas from sociobiology or evolutionary psychology - kin selection, reciprocative altruism, etc.
34th book for 2017.This is a really good, well balanced book that offers a state-of-the-art summary of what we know about behavior. It's probably a little too textbook-like for some readers, but for those who really want to get a good general grounding in what science in 2017 tells us about behavior, there is probably no better place to go.I particularly liked the discussions on the law and neuroscience, and a really nuanced take on role (or lack thereof) of genetics in behavioral determinism, and final chapter relating to war (and peace).
Warning: I've got a degree in psychology and biology and this book was a little dense for me (also I graduated six years ago and no longer work in a related field). However if you are interested in brain chemistry or feel like a challenge this was quite well done.
Why do we do things we do?Behave: The Biology of Humans at Our Best and Worst is a book by American author Robert Maurice Sapolsky.
Sapolsky, Behave: The Biology of Humans at Our Best and Worst Book focuses on Robert Sapolsky’s attempt to tackle seemingly impossible question.
Sapolsky, Behave: The Biology of Humans at Our Best and WorstChapter 15: Metaphors We Kill By: How Rwandan genocide came to be and how metaphors were used as a weapon.
Sapolsky, Behave: The Biology of Humans at Our Best and WorstChapters 6 & 16: Author explained PMS syndrome.
Enjoyable and informative.
Packed with information, but written in an easy, conversational style.
Interesting insight into the causes of human behavior, good and bad.
(Spoiler: "It's complicated.") I read this together with Steven Pinker's "Enlightenment Now," and I felt that the two books complemented one another well, even though the two authors don't necessarily see eye to eye on every point.
Both discuss (in somewhat different contexts) the social, cultural, and psychological evolution of the human animal.
Both give reasons for cautious optimism, though both also seem to realize the potential for disaster that looms as we move forward as a species.
10/10 would behave again
