https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59819.Tears_of_the_Moon
made me wish I could have recorded them ;-).There's a bit of a business deal going on, Trevor Magee wants to build a theater of sorts (not cinema) in Ardmore and has his eye on the land behind Gallagher's Pub. Watching them work the deal and fitness so they get good terms was very wonderful and occasionally amusing to watch.
Shaun's part was particularly genius, I was high fiving him the whole way through.We get a small sense of Magee here, not enough to judge him yet but I'm intrigued to see how he'll be in book three.
As hard as it may seem, it's even better that Jewels of the Sun. Nora keeps excelling herself.
It was so good I finished it in one day.
So good, i'll probably re-read...
Shawn and Brenna are simply sensational and so flammable it turned out explosive.
Really, Nora could go wrong, but as her usual way handled it masterly.
(view spoiler)[ And the way Brenna decides to spice things up: We should have sex!
She thowns Shawn way out of his balance...
It was so good!
Nora's books are generally good.
I will continue reading them and proud of.
This book is not as good as the previous one of the trilogy. But, I liked it anyway.
This Irish trilogy is one of my top five written by Roberts.
Edited and Updated 5/22/15I love the two main characters Sean and Brenna (the gorgeous artist and the tomboy).
They are the middle characters of the trilogy that surprisingly made me connect the most.
This couple has to overcome their own pride and misconceptions of each other in order to find their HEA.Moreover, Robert's expertly spins a tale of ordinary people in Ireland, with a tact-emphasis on dialect, surrounded by charming Irish folklore--namely Carrick: an otherworldly power who appears to entice, antagonize and reprimand human folly as well as his own.
Me gustó. Me faltó un poquito más de emoción en esta pareja.
Like I said, I'm not a big fan of romantic novels, but I have read enough of them to be able to say that this is the only series of the genre that has really stuck with me (except maybe the Three Sisters Island trilogy by the same author).
Roberts has an incredible writing style - very beyond the usual fluff and slap and tickle of other romance writers; and I think that's why I've enjoyed many of her stories so much.
D. Robb.:]I love the way Roberts uses Irish lore and tradition to make these books as magical as the land they take place in.
Mas agora, dez anos após Brenna ter começado a sentir uma atracção por Shawn, ela ganha coragem e faz uma proposta a Shawn que mudará tudo...Este livro proporcionou-me bons momentos e umas boas gargalhadas.
Com este livro eles estão um passo mais próximos de ficarem juntos após trezentos anos de espera interminável.
Confesso que sinto particular curiosidade em relação a este casal e a como o encantamento será quebrado, ansiando assim pela leitura do terceiro e último volume desta trilogia.
Apesar de ter gostado bastante deste livro e de achar que se encontra ao mesmo nível que o primeiro volume, continuo a gostar mais do primeiro.
I'm just relaying this so I can explain one of my pet peeves when reading a book.
It has actually led to projectile books against unsuspecting walls.
I HATE it when an author doesn't do enough research before putting their characters in a home repair or building place.
So I know when an author skips the basics so they can move on with the story it makes me livid.
Nora, the Queen of Romance, never skips the research.
She and her Dad take care of all the repairs and building in their wee Irish town.
*wistful sigh* I love this wee village.

Nuestra reseña en A la cama con... un libro 2'5, 2'9, lo que quieras, pero a 3 no llega. Eh, que es aprobado!!! XDDDDD
I love the magic associated with this book. Not the type of spell casting magic but the kind that produces jewels out of no where, the kind that brings people together, and the kind that makes people stay on earth long after they have meant to left.
Loved the Shawn and Brenna. A wonderful romance set in Ireland. Fun to get swept away!
I enjoyed finding out what fate and the magical mind of faerie Prince Carrick and Lady Gwen had in store for the lovely Brenna and Shawn.
I cared for the ‘alive’ characters, and also the eternal faerie prince and his wondering ghostly love, Gwen.
In that suspended state of lost love, unless three special couples learned those important lessons, the magical spell of doom would never be broken for the faerie prince and his true, mortal love.I loved it when the present day lovers were taught lessons, both magically dramatic and heartfelt from Carrick.
That’s all faerie Prince Carrick and Lady Gwen need….
Not as good as I expected I'm afraid... :/There's always something important missing in this author's books. I can't really put my finger on it. The stories are enjoyable, sweet, easy to read but I can't FEEL them. I'm more of an angsty romance reader, I guess, and that's probably why I don't feel completely satisfied when I read books by Nora Roberts.I'll still finish reading this series and I really want to try and read an standalone by this author next time.
These two have known each other forever and Brenna has been all wistful about Shawn for long enough that she’s kind of getting tired of it.
I don’t know if it was easier or harder for Roberts to pull off with such distinctive and unusual protagonists, but I sure enjoyed getting to know Shawn and Brenna better.Shawn’s wholly masculine domesticity was even more fascinating to me than Brenna’s ability to navigate the perils of being a top-tier builder/handy-person while maintaining her femininity.
The female handy-person, while not exactly common, has been done often enough, but Shawn’s blend of domestic expertise while maintaining everything manly is much rarer.
So, three stars, for a book that I was actually enjoying up to the very abrupt ending that was monumentally uncool.
(view spoiler)[I don't care if I'm "supposed" to feel like Shawn should be grateful to Brenna for selling his music without even telling him or asking if it's okay first, I feel like that is absolutely not okay.
I know it's book 2/3 but I don't particularly have any desire to read about Darcy, and I was actually really shocked how Shawn and Brenna got basically no ending whatsoever.

It was obvious to me from the first book that Brenna had something for Shawn.
And I was wondering how this little something could end up filling a whole book.
This book started like lightning, when Brenna proposed herself to Shawn in a decisively unromantic and pragmatic way.
I really liked the way both characters personalities complemented but contrasted to the other and how the constraints of a rural highly catholic small town influenced their behaviors.
Both of them changed or at least learnt to try to adapt thanks to their relationship.Despite the magical intrusions in the story, this book felt completely realistic with highly likable characters.
(3.5 stars) Not as good as the first book in this trilogy, Jewels of the Sun, but still an enjoyable and pleasant read. Thought I would really like it, because Shawn and Brenna's antagonistic friendship in the previous book was fun to watch, but didn't end up being as satisfying as I was anticipating. It was worth the read, though, and shouldn't be passed up if reading the full trilogy.
É uma história muito gira e doce. Temos o lado mais mágico (ou não teria como cenário a Irlanda) que não é demasiado usual na NR.É bom para desanuviar. E gostei muito do casal. Embora a história do irmão do Aidan, o Shawn esteja melhor conseguida. No entanto esta vertente mais fantasista denota uma imaginação rica, com um enredo bem construído e ponderado.Um final nada apressado, como às vezes se repara nas obras da autora.
Holds up even better during a reread. I love the notion of friends falling for each other, and these two were such lively additions to the first book, it was enjoyable to watch them stumble towards each other. Special shoutout to Mollie O'Toole, Brenna's mother who is one of my favorite NR secondary characters ever.
I liked the book, loved the atmosphere, but in the end I had some problems with a couple of the heroine's decisions. Besides, since I could never love a man I could not respect, I was kind of hesitant to accept the heroine's love for the hero. Who, I must add, is one of the least memorable I've read about by Nora Roberts. Still, an enjoyable read that flowed easily by.
What an extremely annoying female character Brenna is. She can't carry a single conversation without flying off the handle. No growth or maturity at the end. Really wish I didn't spend the time reading this.
Stupid romance novel. that I love. So much.
Serilerinde ikinci kitap hep en zayıf oluyor bence. İlk kitaba benzer ama ondan biraz daha yavaş ve monotondu malesef. Üçüncü kitapta eğleneceğimi düşünüyorum.
plot spoilersI liked how the story started off with a little history about storytellers&the legend of Lady Gwen&Carrick. It was cool how they come 2 each of the 3 people when they’re going 2 fall in love. I liked Shawn’s personality&style. I liked that Shawn&Brenna knew each other since childhood&cud come&go in each other’s houses. A full, firm mouth that was meant, she supposed, 4 long kisses&soft words.Not that she knew of either firsthand. But she’d heard tell. &am
At the beginning she longs for him&it’s been that way since she was little, but when Carrick asked how she felt about Shawn she said she didn’t know.I liked the little song he created thinking of her.He toyed with the idea of trying 2 talk himself out of being in love with her, as he imagined ppl did when the fit wasn’t as comfortable as they might prefer.
Vol. 1  "She'd had a yen for him even before she'd beaned him with that baseball - and she'd been fourteen to his nineteen at the time. And a yen tended to grow into something hotter, something nervier, by the time a woman was twenty-four."   «••● tl;dr & spoiler-free ●••» You know what you're getting when your read a Nora Roberts book, especially if it's a trilogy that takes place in Ireland. It will be atmospheric, it will be full of romance tropes, and sometimes...that's just what you nee
You know what you're getting when your read a Nora Roberts book, especially if it's a trilogy that takes place in Ireland.
Tears of the Moon picks up shortly after Jewels of the Sun with the annoying habit of never letting us see the fun events in previous characters' lives, like weddings or babymaking.
This time the story follows Brenna and Shawn (still maintaining that should be Sean...), and I do think I enjoyed their romance a little more than Jude and Aidan's.
It felt like a nice role reversal from typical romances to have the woman be levelheaded and the man with his head in the clouds.
I wasn't as impressed with this book as I was the first in the series.
I always enjoy the main female character being independent, strong and outspoken, but I found Brenna is way over the top.
She is manipulative, conniving and very disrespectful to Shawn and too unfeminine.
Shawn is Adian's younger brother who does all the cooking at the pub.
He and Brenna have been friends since childhood.
Until Brenna throws himself at him telling him she just wants sex with him, does he finally discover he loves her?
On to the final book 3 of the series.
What always draws me to Nora Roberts is her character development. I started with this book, the second in the trilogy, which is odd for me. I quickly got over it as I fell in love with the banter between characters & the story of Shawn & Brenna. A good, fun read.
Many of those friends stem from the Gallagher family’s pub around which our trilogy is centered (especially the oldest brother in this case…).Besides Jude’s growing relationship with Aidan, the biggest part of the book focuses on how Jude learns to fit in her own skin and appreciate herself.
It turns out that once all three of our happy couples fall in love the curse will be broken.Now, I’m obviously by no means a paranormal/fantasy hater but in my opinion, these books don’t need this element.
Does anyone else that has read these books agree with me?Anyway, that being said – I obviously still think The Irish Trilogy is worth reading, weird paranormal elements and all.
