https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/319964.On_The_Black_Hill
He wanted to live with Lewis for ever and ever; to eat the same food; wear the same clothes; share a bed; and swing an axe in the same trajectory.
There were four gates leading into The Vision; and, for him, they were the Four Gates of Paradise.”Identical twins Lewis and Benjamin Jones have shared most of their days of their lives together since they were born.
Their mother factors heavily in their memories as they go through their days, through their lives.
The twins rarely leave their farm, and the town is much like you’d expect from any small town where the people rarely change, living is routine and never easy.
This one blew me away. So simple; so complex. So small; so big. I finished it a week ago, but I've been holding off on reviewing it until I could find the right words. I still haven't. Until I do, I'll just leave these stars here and tell you: this is one is pure gold.
Meanwhile in  On the Black Hill  we receive ordinary though unusual in its simplicity story, set on the farm called "The Vision " on the english-wales border.
Chatwin effortlessly and with great charm and discreet humor painted hymn to the unchanging rhythm of life, hard work and carefully cultivated Welsh separateness.
We see, unusual even for twins, intimacy.
Violent quarrels with neighbours, love for the farming, beauty of the countryside, two world wars, economic progress, tractors, planes.
And on the Black Hill two old childless men are to make over the farm to their sister's grandson.Masterpiece.
A warm-hearted and somewhat bleak tale of identical twin brothers, Benjamin and Lewis, living out their lives together on a rural farm on the border of Wales and England.
Lewis is more physical and likes girls; Benjamin was more sensitive and spiritual, loves to tend to the lambs and wants only to be with Lewis forever.
But my “B” rating is relative to the wonderful books on rural life and coming of age that I have sought out, driven in part by my origins from a place in Oklahoma where our nearest neighbor was a mile away.
One son was caught up in the First World War, one had love affairs; neither “ever strayed further than Hereford.” Through sickness, community scandal, and the rise and fall of fortunes, they remain wedded to Welsh village life.I especially loved Chatwin’s descriptions of the natural world (he’d visited Radnorshire as a boy and considered it a kind of spiritual home), and the glimpses he gives into the twins’ preternatural closeness:Lewis and Benjamin gambolled ahead, put up grouse, played finger-football with rabbit-droppings, peered over the precipice onto the backs of kestrels and ravens and, every now and then, crept off into the bracken, and hid.
The beauty of the book is the way the author carries you away to a sheltered little farming community on the border of Wales and England.
With very few words he richly creates all the small-town provincial characters you'd expect for that time and place.
There's the gossip, the crazy person, the greedy one, the pious one---and then all the interlopers "from off" that the locals don't trust because they're new.
Born in 1900, they spend their entire lives on their farm, with only one holiday away at the age of ten.
Sounds boring, but the book has its own special charm.
Twin boys, Lewis and Benjamin Jones, were born in 1900 on a farm on the border of Radnorshire, Wales and Herefordshire, England.
The identical Welsh twins spent more than eighty years together with the stronger Lewis doing the heavier work on the farm, while Benjamin handled the finances and birthing the lambs.
It immerses the reader in the rural life of a Welsh village where the residents live close to the land in what is often a bleak existence.
Lewis died first, but Benjamin cannot be separated from his twin.
Lots of props here: cats talking to humans, frogs falling like rain from the sky, a son having sex with his mother, a brother-and-sister love scene, killings, ghosts.
Bruce Chatwin even chose the most boring place, the most ordinary characters, the simplest plot, and an unpretentious title.
Amos tended their farm, the twins grew up to be farmers too.
After their parents died, and their sister had ran away, the twins continued tending to their farm, acquiring additional land every now and then.
"todas as frustrações da sua vida acanhada e frugal tinham deixado de ter importância, pois, durante dez extraordinários minutos, fizera o que sempre sonhara." (p. 314)
The story of a Welsh farming family focusing especially on twin brothers, Lewis and Benjamin.
Having recently read a biography of Chatwin by N Shakespeare, I had already encountered several of the “characters” here.
L&B are based upon two farming brothers introduced to Chatwin by his friend, Penelope Betjeman.
Similarly, some of the other characters evolved in this way.
It was therefore difficult for me to see this always as a work of fiction.Beautifully written in spare clear prose it is entirely absorbing and the characters are well drawn.
I now want to find the DVD of the film based on the book and see how they compare.
Se este romance tivesse menos oitenta personagens, talvez o relato dos oitenta anos de vida dos gémeos Jones fosse muito mais interessante.
The novel is imbued with seemingly mundane details of life in rural Wales, yet it is this detailed description that gives the novel its magic, its fairy tale element comes from its very ordinariness, as we come to learn about and care for the Jones twins and the other characters who live on the periphery of their lives, it celebrates instead the miracle of every human life no matter how superficially mundane it may seem.
I felt like I was luxuriating in the language of this beloved novel about a family living in a house that straddles the Welsh-English border. It covers about 80 years in the life of the Jones Family, which particular emphasis on the identical twins Benjamin and Lewis who are so close they can feel each other's pain although they are different in many ways. It's a beautiful look at identity, siblings, family history, class, and place. I loved it.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
From BBC Radio 4 - Book at Bedtime:Iestyn Jones reads from Bruce Chatwin's novel about the lives of identical twin brothers Lewis and Benjamin Jones, on their farm in the Welsh Marches.1/5.
By adolescence, differences begin to emerge but the brothers' bond is stronger than ever.3/5: Benjamin is called up to fight in WWI and Lewis is drawn to young Rosie Fifield, but neither love nor war can separate the boys for long.4/5: After the war the twins turn their attention even more towards each other and their home.
But tension erupts when Lewis has an encounter with Joy Lambert, the wife of a local artist.5/5: The twins continue to enjoy farm life, shunning modernity and sharing their parents' bed.
I've read plenty of novels set in the rural 1900s, but have not yet seen one modernise this world as Chatwin did, ending his novel in the 1980s.
To me it was really interesting to watch the world become familiar (and to watch it become foreign to the novel's inhabitants).
I felt sad that the times were changing, but amazed, at the same time, and connected again with the old world as a result.
I especially loved the twins, Lewis and Benjamin, and I think they were brilliantly crafted by Chatwin.
I'd love to read this novel again, perhaps in twenty years or so.
I read On the Black Hill in 1982, when it was published, and among the half-dozen or so sentences I copied were the following:"Crossing the pasture one evening, he watched the swallows glinting low over the dandelion clocks, and the sheep standing out against the sunset, each one ringed with an aureole of gold--and understood why the Lamb of God should have a halo.""Perched on the tractor mudguard, he would watch the plough-share bite into the stubble, and the herring-gulls shrieking and swooping over the freshly-turned furrow.""He came to a stream in a copse of hazels, where the water combed over a rock, and there were piles of bleached bones brought down by the winter flood."In novels like The Marquis of Ouidah, which is about the West African slave trade, Chatwin captures the exotic.
(To be clear - I listened to the abridged reading on BBC radio, not the book itself. )Difficult to describe this! About closeness and loneliness all at the same time - can that be? It felt as if something sad was always imminent, a suspended state of unease- the brothers were real enough to me that I worried about them! Don't think I can write a proper review without having read the full book, though.
Always I have associated Bruce Chatwin's work with travel to far-off places.
Not only did I wind up liking it, but I thought it was by far the best of Chatwin's three novels, despite being so un-Chatwinlike in its subject.
Except, he tried to live the life of a nomad.I have always loved Chatwin's work.
2.5 stars - Metaphorosis ReviewsBrothers, twins in body and spirit, spend much of their lives together on a farm at the Welsh-English border.I've not read Bruce Chatwin before, but have heard of him mainly as a travel writer.
While a few other colorful characters come in and out, others are summarily dealt with in a few paragraphs.The novel has a fairly clumsy start - after a chapter on the twins late life, the book suddenly and without warning drops back to a time before their birth, to give the history of the farm itself.

This was a fine novel and I enjoyed it but it was radically unlike anything else I’ve read from Mr. Chatwin.
More measured, less eccentric, but a very warm and mildly humorous and satisfying read.
Chatwin was a famous traveler, but On the Black Hill is a story about staying put.
The story spans a period from roughly the 1890s to the early 1980s.
You might say it’s the world around the twins that does the moving here; it’s the world, in a way, that comes to them.Chatwin gets extra points for knowing how to end his story properly.
This took a while to grow on me.
I expected to be about two twin men aged 80, but actually it's about from before they were born up until they're 80, and the farming community they live in, and so has to move very speedily through the years without much pause to look around and reflect.
And that's what I found difficult; it was only by the time the book finished that I got used to this speed.
It's full of odd characters which I loved, the kind of people I remember from my rural childhood, tramps and loners, eccentrics and naturalists.
ein sehr wunderbares und anrührendes Buch.
'For forty two years, Lewis and Benjamin Jones slept side-by-side in their parents' bed at their farm ...', 20 Dec 2014Set on the Welsh/English border, this is the story of elderly twins in a remote rural community, opening in the late 19th century, with their parents' courtship, and concluding in the 70s, with the twins in old age.As other reviewers have observed, nothing massive happens; there is interaction with the local aristocrats, the Bickertons; with various neighbours, notably the unfortunate Watkins family - daughter Meg puts one much in mind of a Mary Webb character.World events seem relatively far away, although the First World War leaves its traces on one of the twins.
Reading this book is like taking a trip to a farm on the English-Welsh border. There isn't much happening and the everyday things that are normal happenings to us are a big deal at The Vision Farm. Chatwin's writing is very gentle and gives us a feeling of adoration for the two brothers that have such devotion to each other. Without much of a plot, the book is place driven and character driven. I would recommend it to anyone who loves to read about rural nature.
Brilliant book! A gentle, meandering story about the lives of twin brothers who live out their years in a rural farm on the Welsh border. It's one of those quiet books where not much actually happens, there's no big story arc as such. A story that is very much rooted in the beautiful minutiae of everyday life.
This was dazzling. I need to reread it soon.
Super. I am sure I'll read this again someday. Nuff said.
I found it compelling, and fortunately had the time, between Christmas and New Year, to read it compulsively.I find myself still thinking about the portrayal of the characters, who are either Welsh farming people or English gentry and professional/merchant class.
The narrative runs through the course of the long lives of the twin brothers, reclusive hill farmers who resist the advance of modernity in the twentieth century, and counter in their own way the intrusion of two world wars.
