https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31490.The_Serpent_and_the_Rainbow
Wade Davis's renowned investigation into Haitian zombies has the benefit of featuring a hero who is fearless, rugged and insightful.
‘It belongs in a museum,’ snarls Wade, who, conceivably, has spent his life trying to make up for the extreme dullness of his name.
Eventually I came to respect those moments, for the cycle of logical questions was getting me nowhere.I imagine these passages got up the noses of any academics who were trying to assess the book on its scientific merits.
Perhaps aware of this, Davis published a straight academic account of his investigation a few years later, called Passage of Darkness: The Ethnobiology of the Haitian Zombie.
Just got reminded that I've read this book, and never spoken about it.Tetrodotoxin - it's a word to live and die by. But is it death, if you comeback as a zombie.Read this book and find out. It's a classic if you would like to know more about Voudoun and Haitian culture. (Note - this is not the movie by Wes Craven...) this is the real stuff.
This is the stuff of legends after all.Davis provides detailed descriptions of the poisons that can bring about a death-like trance.
Davis also talks in great detail about Zora Neale Hurston's Tell My Horse: Voodoo and Life in Haiti and Jamaica, in which she recounts her experiences participating in vodoo practices.
From his description, I can't help wondering if maybe Hurston's is not the better book on the subject.
But then I also a good amount of time worrying about giant squid attacks as well, so perhaps my fears aren't the most rational.
Funded by a group of scientists eager to learn the secret potion used to make one appear dead and then miraculously rise again some time later, Davis begins to peel apart the layers of mystique and tradition that serve to create the soul of Haiti, and which once allowed it to be the only country to successfully free itself from slavery in the history of Western domination of the Americas.
Уейд Дейвис забива пирон право в сърцето на парцаливата кукла на клишетата. Защото зомбитата и вуду магиите съществуват, но съвсем не приличат на това, което Холивуд показва.„Змията и дъгата” е риба балон (защо тази аналогия – като прочетете книгата). Прочитът ѝ или ще те убие веднага, или ще те остави още дълго да се рееш сред сенките между наука и мистика.Браво, Издателство Ерове! http://knijno.blogspot.bg/2017/07/blo...
After graduating from Shimer College, my youngest stepbrother, Erik Badger, sponsored by an undergraduate mentor long active in Haiti, went to the island to work on education projects.
When the project ended, he moved in, staying for several years during the course of which I became introduced to many persons from the island and endeavored on my own to read up on what he'd been involved in.
This book is best read after studying something of the culture and its history in order to be able to contextualize what is really a rather marginal subcultural current.
Everything you think you know about voodoo is probably wrong. Voodoo dolls were never part of the religion, and zombies are not the living dead. "Voodoo" simply means "god" or "spirit" in the Dahomey language. The beliefs and practices are every bit as logical as those of any other religion when viewed as a means of providing social structure and maintaining order in the community.
The book is about a Harvard trained ethnobotanist who goes to Haiti to learn about some of the naturally occuring compounds used in the voudoun culture.
What I found remarkable about the book was Wade Davis' ability to embrace and respect the voudoun culture (and it is a culture in the full sense of the word) without making western value judgements and assumptions about it.
It is only through his understanding of the culture that he is able to learn what he came to find out.
…народът се състои от осемдесет и пет процента католици и сто и десет процента водунисти…: http://knigolandia.info/book-review/z...Робите в Хаити донасят своите специфични вярвания и ритуали, които залягат в основата на вуду-културата, която Холивуд изкриви до неузнаваемост за своите цели, и именно която Уейд подробно изследва на място в поредица от посещения, всяко от които запълва още някое парченце от пъзела.
Той попада сред една бедна, но адаптивна държава, която притежава могъщо вътрешно самоуправление, работещо в изненадващ синхрон с формалните държавни институции.
Това самоуправление се поддържа от тайни общества, формирани около борбите за независимост и които обединяват локалните общности, търсещи и намиращи справедливост и сигурност в своята сплотеност.http://knigolandia.info/book-review/z...Издателство Ерове
A book that starts off with the taste of sterile laboratory text.
And grows throughout to ensnare and hold you, till your sitting next to this man, feeling the mists from this massive waterfall caress your face.
Hearing the great roaring crash of the water.
Seeing the rainbow, and knowing serenity as the light falls upon your face.
A really thorough description of a mans journey to find the zombies of Haiti.
And how he instead finds a family.
A family that can be as sweet as sugar, or as bitter as bile.
Very different from the Wes Craven 80's horror film (I just watched it in all its cheesey glory). I found it very interesting, and it made me want to know more about Haiti and voudon.
There are wonderful passages about the history of poison in politics, Haitian rebellion and toxic botany, and Wade is limber enough to take on the language of both toxicology and sociology without sounding like he’s straining.
I would highly recommend reading this in conjunction with Mountains Beyond Mountains so that you can compare the different appearances of the Ton Ton Macoute. I believe this book is very good for 'blancs' to read, because Western society just doesn't engender the capacity to understand Haitian culture, or for that matter any culture that is highly spiritual outside of Judeo-Christian religions. Just from an anthropological standpoint, this book is highly interesting, but combined with all of the spiritual, political, and scientific background it becomes truly eye-opening.
Still, the rhythm of the rails is always seductive, and the passing frames race by like so many childhood fantasies, alive in color and light.My interest waxed and waned the further I got into the book.
I appreciated that he apparently loved the country and seemed respectful of the culture.
I liked this description of returning to Haiti after a year away.
Still, along with the easy happiness I had come to associate with the country, I was aware of a new and perhaps less superficial sensation—that sense of familiarity and alienation that comes to one who knows a place well, but who can never hope to become a part of it.A couple of personal issues probably affected my rating, even though they had nothing to do with the quality of the writing.
Книгата е доста разхвърляна, с много повторения и ненужно подробно задълбаване в историята на Хаити с дати и имена, както и в йерархията и философията на култа - с термини, чинове и куп други понятия, веднъж обяснени под чертата и втори път - в текста.
На всяка страница по няколко.
Дразнещ основен шрифт (с камшичета на к, ж, ю) в компот с други като начални в главите и трудно читаеми в курсив и под чертата.
Има и няколко проблясъка като "убоде долния му крак" (на мъж) и "той се държа формално".
I noticed most of the poor reviews of this book come from people who were expecting to read about zombies and then the odd person who really dislikes Wade Davis.So movie style zombies aren't real and I happen to have a mad author crush on Wade Davis so I feel free to enjoy this book.
I love his TED talk on the destruction of cultures and my guess is that he is better at speaking than at writing but it's still pretty good.I read this because I like his voice, not because I am really, really interested in how to make a zombie, although I guess I now know as much about that as most who aren't Haitian or anthropologists.
I really don't understand most of the reviews for this book.
This book offered much more than just a zombie story.
And not just about voodoo and "zombies".
I completely understand how and why Haiti has evolved to where it is today because of this book.
I've read this book 3 times.
Will read it again.
The most interesting and unique non-fiction book I have ever read.
The Haitian history, voodoo, cultures, people....
Scary, interesting, educational, astonishing....
but reinforces the statement that "fact can be stranger than fiction.".
Get it, read it, you should enjoy it.
When I bought THE SERPENT AND THE RAINBOW by Wade Davis I was on a horror kick, a quest to find a genuinely scary book.
I’m glad I didn’t read this then, because the book is nothing like the movie of the same name, from which it was adapted by Wes Craven in 1988.
The movie was bad, the book is good, but it’s not a horror story.
From that start Wade delves into the Haitian culture, history and the practice of vodoun, which are all tied together.
It’s an interesting read, somewhat creepy, if a little unsatisfying.
Допълнителни точки и за минималистичните корица и разделител, както и за смелостта на „Ерове” да издадат вече втора книга с антропология.Уейд Дейвис е етноботаник(нещо като криптозоолог при растенията) и е изпратен от професора си в Хаити да намери ботаническите корени на зомби отровата, с която се надяват да заменят опасната пълна упойка при хирургическите операции.При сблъсъка му с вуду културата на хаити, ученият затъва дълбоко и успява да заобича страната и свободолюбивия и народ.
I'm not sure what I was expecting - maybe something fairly dry and academic, but I got sucked into Davis' story and thoroughly enjoyed reading about his adventures in Haiti.
Do you have to take his Indiana-Jones-style narrative with a grain of salt?
But at the same time, Davis clearly took the time to try to understand the cultural underpinnings of the zombi phenomenon, and kept digging even after the specific poisons had been identified.
I appreciated his efforts to include the historical and sociological contexts, without which the zombi is just a Hollywood monster and not an expression of a complex and deeply spiritual cuture.
<3 много любов за Ерове и всичко, което решават да издадат
In 1982 Canadian anthropologist Wade Davis ventured to Haiti to learn if and how voodoo sorcerers turn people into zombies. His motive? Their poisons, he thought, might be medically valuable—the way curare, an arrow poison discovered by Harvard ethnobotanist Schultes, had proved valuable as a muscle relaxant for surgery. Assisted by local contacts, Davis penetrated the society of houngans (vodoo priests) and bokors (voodoo sorcerers), attended voodoo ceremonies, and after a false start or two o
In 1982 Canadian anthropologist Wade Davis ventured to Haiti to learn if and how voodoo sorcerers turn people into zombies.
Davis learned that zombies are not randomly created by hostile or greedy sorcerers; zombification is a social sanction exacted by secret societies on folks who violate the unwritten rules of their communities.
So traditionally the Haitian government, the secret societies and the voodoo religion have been intricately intertwined, and zombification has long served as a form of social sanction to keep people in line.
I watched the movie based on this story sometime in the 80’s. I expected this book to be similar to the movie, but to my shock it was much better than it. I’m not exaggerating if I say that Hollywood had ruined this book!
THE SERPENT & THE RAINBOW is a fascinating anthropological study that reads like fiction; capable of holding a reader’s interest from start to finish.It is the early 1980’s and Harvard educated ethnobotantist (one who scientifically studies the relationship between people and plants) Wade Davis is sent to Haiti to investigate the validity of two reported cases of zombification.
Wade Davis does indeed obtain the mysterious powder; several forms of it in fact and analysis in the States prove the substances to contain the active ingredients tetrodotoxin from pufferfish and another potent toxin from dried tree frogs.
The movie, which is completely fictional, actually works better as a story, but of course the very fact that it is plotted as a horror film prevents any deep insights into the actual workings of Haitian vodoun and the creation of real-world zombis.
This book is an attempt to present vodoun to a American audience in order that they come to understand it better.
Other interesting material includes information about psycho-active drugs and their use in spiritual (and non-spiritual) contexts, and his investigation into the drug he believed to be responsible for the zombi phenomenon.
The resulting exploration covers a great deal of fascinating ground, from Haiti's brutal history as a slave colony and as the home of the first successful slave rebellion in the world, a discussion of the (mostly erroneous) earlier views of the culture (including Zora Neale Hurston's outstanding "Tell My Horse"), and a dispassionate, focused look at the differences between traditional, religion-based cultures and modern science-based ones.Davis keeps up the pace with a crackling narrative brimming over with information, and while he occasionally strays a little to close to a kind of personal hero role (such as in the horse race), his clear vision of the benefits and the handicaps of his choice to become a scientist more than makes up for it.
Davis proves it in this wonderful sociological/anthropological/botanical book.Davis arrives in Haiti with a theory and a grant to uncover a drug that would cause zombieism.
The culture supports belief in zombies, people believe in them and they happen.Davis also shows how large a part psychology plays in the magical atmosphere of Haiti.
It's not as simple as we think.Davis also gives a great history of Haiti which has made me decide to read the historical fiction series by Madison Smartt Bell again.If you are at all interested in how history, culture, psychology and drugs cause the creation of a society, any society, begin here.
The Serpent and the Rainbow is an interesting mix of science and myth, as Davis attempts to dispel the myths of Haitian voodoo.
Voodoo is an old religion that can be traced all the way back to the times of the African slave revolts.
Haiti was the place of one of the only successful slave revolts in the "Americas," and because of this, an interesting culture developed around the runaways.
This tale explores the history and mystery surrounding Haitian voodoo and zombies, and was extremely enlightening in the way of learning about a mostly unknown religion and culture.
Davis' account of his research in Haiti into the zombi phenomenon and its potential pharmaceutical basis is just as fun as you'd imagine it to be, and just as ultimately unsatisfying as you might imagine it to be.
Of course, the years have shown that the toxin hypothesis might not stand up so well (the matter is still unsettled between Davis and his detractors) but Davis makes a convincing early argument for the chemical basis for the fake death and "reanimation" as blathering servant of Haiti's zombis.
Basically, this story starts with somebody who a doctor in Port Au Prince, using up-to-date medical technologies, diagnoses as dead and leaves them to be buried.
The real story begins when this scientist interested in ethnobotany (the study of a given culture's use of the flora [and fauna] around it) travels to Haiti to figure out just how this person was diagnosed as dead, but obviously is not.
Bringing together the culture of voodoo, the chemical trails left behind by medicine men, and the surreal quality of Haitian life, Davis finds an answer to the problem that is all the more amazing for the fact that it's all TRUE!!!
