https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114242.Fortune_s_Daughter
I started with  Practical Magic, then bounced to  Blue Diary, which was the most recent at the time, and just kept reading.
The magic of everyday life is lost in the more traditional female characters of the early 80s.
Her devotion to location, description of climate and flora, as well as simple, everyday fancy does neatly embroider a mostly mediocre novel.For those just beginning to read Hoffman, I'd start with something a bit more polished, such as  The Probable Future,  The Blackbird House, or, my favorite,  Practical Magic.
I’ve just finished another wonderful Alice Hoffman novel.
2 women, Rae, a young unwed pregnant woman whose boyfriend seems to have less than a full deck, meets Lila, a fortune teller who is older and married.
Their lives become intertwined when Rae asked Lila to tell her fortune.
The story weaves between present and past of each in a way only Alice Hoffman can tell it.
I can always count on a wonderful read by Hoffman and my expectations are always met.
After finishing this novel, I feel as though I have been on a journey knowing Rae and Lila as friends, and I’m better off to have met them.
I love Alice Hoffman! Her prose is like poetry. I was introduced to her about ten years ago by a friend. It was Practical Magic. Some of her plots are better than others but the imagery of her words never fails to capture me.
She takes the ordinary world, makes it completely awful, and then pulls all of the magic and wonder out of it, like a magician pulling a rabbit from a hat.
I loved the whole tea-reading-fortune-telling thing and Rae and Lila are interesting within their world's that lack--completely--celebrity and fame or anything very sparkly.
that upon reading it...made me smile and nod because, after all is said and done, life is a mysterious thing...Into this cake Lila had baked three gifts: a cool hand to test for fevers, a kiss with the power to chase away nightmares, a heart that can tell when it's time to let go.
This is actually the first Hoffman novel I read all the way through.First of all, the writing is breathtaking.
_I_ want to write like this.
The interweaving of image, especially nature image, with character and action inspires.Second, the characters all carry pain, even the "bad boy" with the "good girl." And no one is that one-dimensional.
And the attempts to connect and reconnect, even when they don't want to, show their desire to overcome the pain of the past and move into a more functional future.
While they display the same open emotions as Hoffman's other characters, it just comes across as being wishy-washy instead of endearing.
She was such an influential character - after all, it was she who taught Lila Tasseography (the art of reading tea leaves), and as another Goodreads reviewer noted, it was with her that the real magic in Fortune's Daughter seemed to lie.
I can honestly say that there is no such thing as "earthquake weather", and anyone who says otherwise hasn't spent much time in California - Hoffman, this means you.
It's a book about loss, in many forms, a theme I just don't really care to read right now.
(The one exception was I did want to learn more about the old fortune teller's heritage and village-- sounds like that's where Hoffman's magic was hiding.) I live in the south where there actually is a hurricane season, but have always been told by relatives in California that earthquakes can occur at any time of the year and at any time of the day or night, under all weather conditions, sunny, wet, hot, or cold--without special tendency.
If I'd rated Fortune's Daughter the moment I finished it, I would have given it 5 stars. I was completely engrossed and rather weepy by the end. But, having thought about it for a day, there are several points I wish had been wrapped up a little neater. It felt like a lot of things were left unresolved. Still, Alice Hoffman's unbelievable talent always leaves me humbled.
while it's an ok story, it lacks the usual magical realism that she usually brings to the table.
2 women suffer because of 2 different things (view spoiler)[one of them gives her baby up for adoption and the other gets pregnant and her boyfriend leaves her- the adopted baby dies, but the mom doesn't find out until much later in life (hide spoiler)], and while it's a sad, interesting story, it is not among her best.
i didn't highlight any passages, which is rare for me as her writing is usually like poetry.
Listening to the audiobook, I found it hard to recognize the time transitions.
I found a lot of the events in this book to be mystical.
And from the audio version, I did not get at all what the publisher says: "This contemporary world is set against a series of Russian folktales told by an old woman who lives at the edge of Manhattan, in a place so well hidden it can only be found once in a life-time.
" Maybe that's where the mysticism comes in.Carrington McDuffie does a really good job as narrator.
Felt like there was too much nonessential narrative. In the midst of scenes and conversations, the author goes off on tangents that don't add anything to the story loved the relationships, though - how the characters dealt with one another
There is considerable evidence of the excellent writer Hoffman will become—the magic realism, the gorgeous language, but so many, so dear, so strong, so sharp, so beautiful .
" I might agree with both, and also found it convoluted, messy, and unfocused—a novel where characters thrash without necessarily getting very far, not even in the narrative sense.
Nevertheless, I am happy to have read the novel and I will put it back on my shelf where it has been stored since my mother died.
She purchased Hoffman's entire backlist without actually reading these hardbacks from the 80s.
Lila and Rae, memorable characters. The strength and endurance of a mother's love.
Not my favorite Hoffman, but still a decent listen as an audiobook.
"You don't understand," Lila said.
The worst thing in the world for a mother is to leave her child.
She couldn't bring herself to remember you, because if she did she'd have to leave you behind." (page 106) "Out in the rain, Lila pulled her bathrobe tighter around herself.
She wondered if there was something about California that made the time move so quickly.
Without winter to shock you into another year, entire seasons had dissolved in the sunshine; and no one could manage time in a place where even the roses were so confused that they bloomed year round." (page 107)
This one definitely brought a story and characters to life in a beautiful way.
This is a story full of heartbreak , sadness, and loss, but somehow still full of magic, hope, and joy at times.
Fortune's Daughter tells the story of two different women, Rae and Lila.
I can't stay that I loved the main characters in this book - they are definitely flawed, complicated, and don't always make the best choices (or ones I agree with)- but they still felt real.
It was easy to get pulled into this world.
The plot was easy to follow and understand.
She does not want Rae to look to her for help, as it opens up wounds in her past that have never entirely healed.
Lila as a protagonist is as flawed as they come.
In her efforts to flee the pain of her past, she causes a lot of heartache to people who care about her.
The people who weave in and out of the two women's lives are a fascinating mix.
The third person narrative skates deftly from the present to the past to the tangential past as we look back at Lila's memories.
Rae's past gets less focus.
Beautifully written and full of emotion.
A woman who gave her child away and is haunted by this becomes friends with another woman who is pregnant and essentially alone.
I felt so frustrated with Lila when she wouldn't tell her husband her secret and he loved her so completely and could have helped her through it.
Loved the way the relationships between Richard, Lila and rae grew even though each had their own difficulties, they helped each other in great ways.
So interesting to read how holding things in can be so destructive and the healing power of love.
Such a great story, love Alice Hoffman.
Great ending too.
Just ok. I usually LOVE alice Hoffman's books, but this one. I HATED the women! They were are so dumb, and spineless, and just passive. I mean, why not talk to the men? or other people? and the way the one woman treated her husband who loved her. And then she realizes her child she gave up for adoption had died, when she had this happy ever after story in her head,and she couldn't accept it. ugh!!
The dichotomy of this book simply compels you to read it. While the story is mostly mundane, selfish boyfriend, friendless pregnant girlfriend, befriends a fortune teller with a secret past, develops severe depression, etc., the writing is so incredibly beautiful, magical even. While not really caring about the story, I simply wanted to experience the reading of it. Now that I've completed the book, I'm sorry it's over.
Having discovered Alice Hoffman sometime in the early 2000s I didn't realize she had books dating back to 1985 which this does, and I daresay this is among my favorites. The earlier Hoffman fiction is among the most magical and this doesn't disappoint. These characters are each so solitary and yet connected in a way that weaves an intriguing story of heartbreak, regret, redemption, and love. I could hardly put it down.
Ooooh, this is one of Alice's best; she was writing magical realism before anyone knew what it was. I've been reading and re-reading her wonderful stories for years and years and have found only one to be a stinker-Here On Earth.
Thoroughly enjoyed this book and I will look for other books by this author. The story is unique, the characters are fascinating - they don't always do what you'd like them to do. Renee and Michelle - you'd both enjoy it.
For an early Hoffman book, this one shows the beginning of how she weaves lives and stories together and out comes a beautiful end, not perfect, as life is not perfect. Real is how it goes.
Two women’s lives – one older with a rich and painful history, the other younger but not without her own share of stories – intertwine the most unexpected turns.“Into this cake Lila had baked three gifts: a cool hand to test for fevers, a kiss with the power to chase away nightmares, a heart that can tell when it’s time to let go.”The subtle fantasy elements here are subdued to a most artful state, Alice Hoffman’s trademark.
(I blame myself, since I picked it, and not the friend I borrowed the book from.) This nostalgic, romance-laden story follows two women - Rae, a secretary grappling with her first pregnancy and her unreliable boyfriend, and Lila, a fortune teller who was forced to give up her baby girl for adoption - whose lives become irrevocably entwined when Rae asks Lila to read her tea leaves.
I wanted to like FORTUNE'S DAUGHTER, especially for the beauty and enchantment of Hoffman's writing.
but not enough hope (hide spoiler)].That being said, I've noticed that the general consensus on FORTUNE'S DAUGHTER is it's not one of Hoffman's stronger novels.
I love Hoffman, but halfway through the book I was completely over it.
It was a struggle to get through the rest of the book.
Her writing style is beautiful, but I found myself getting irritated with it towards the end - “It’s hot outside in February, we get it...” I was equally annoyed with both of the main characters.
I think I would have been much happier if through some strange twist of fate, Rae had ended up being Lila’s daughter.
I would recommend other Hoffman novels, but not this one.
While her writing style began -- and has remained -- lyrical and magical, Alice Hoffman has improved dramatically with her stories as she has matured as a writer.
Her later novels are the ones that prompted me to read her earlier ones, but her earlier ones just don't compare.Rae is in a relationship with the enigmatic Jessup, but she is the one holding it together.
When an unplanned pregnancy sends Jessup away, Rae is forced to examine what her future might hold.Lila is a happily married fortune teller who gave up a baby for adoption twenty seven years ago.When the lives of Rae and Lila intersect, their fortunes and futures become intertwined.Unfortunately, this book is an earlier Hoffman book, and the story itself left me unmoved.
There are books you read, enjoy, set down, and never think about again.
And then there's those books that are best read as part of a college literature course where you have weeks to discuss them with learned people.
It makes me long for my college days so I could discuss the magical realism, the meanings of the birds, or notice how the weather gets very extreme just when something extreme is happening to the characters or note the patterns among the three women.Oh, you can enjoy the book without these things, but you'd miss the richness of it.
Alice Hoffman is extraordinary.
Everything she writes is touched with magic but not overwritten.
That's a tough balancing act, especially in books for adults.
This one is about the intersection of lives: a young woman who finds herself pregnant by her awful longtime boyfriend, and an older woman married to a prince of a fellow who doesn't know she is haunted by the baby she gave up for adoption while still a teenager.
They are drawn together by the rootlessness of life as transplants to SoCal, because they don't have relatives and old friends to turn to.
But the story ends on a hopeful note.
