https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18007564-the-martian
I’m pretty much fucked. Ok, show of hands. How many of you have uttered these exact words? (or words to that effect). Not everyone? I see we have some liars out there. How many have said them at least twice? Three times? Four? Those with hands still up, you probably need to make some adjustments to your approach, find a safer line of work, hobbies that do not entail long drops, stop trying the weekly specials at McBlowfish, or seek out people to date who are into less extreme…um…sports. These a
The other was taken at Death Valley, which was used, BTW, in the filming of Robinson Crusoe on MarsMost of the tale is spent on Watney’s very compelling attempt to survive, going through all the challenges he faces trying to make air, preserve and maybe generate water, make his food last, get some sort of communication set up, deal with things like exploding air-locks, biblical level dust-storms, toppling ground-transport vehicles, you know, stuff, most of it life-threatening.
Unpopular opinion time: I don't like how this book is written.
Watney's journals read like a nerdy blog rather than a dramatic survivor's diary.
It sucks all the tension out of any situation, which is the complete opposite of what I want in a book that's supposed to be a thriller.Now, don't get me wrong, Andy Weir is a great technical writer.
And that's fine, I have no fault with a book that's factually complicated like that.
In fact, it's really admirable and cool that Weir is able to pool all of his expertise into a book about survival on Mars.
My astronaut crewmates accidentally left me behind on Mars!
Oh wait!
I just thought of something highly logically unlikely and technically complicated, that I am sure to pull off without a hitch, because did I mention that I am Plucky and Ingenious?
It sure is a good thing that I am super-talented!
[Next chapter] But wait!
Shit happens, when you're stuck alone on Mars.
It's a good thing I'm so naturally optimistic, because it sure would make for a bummer book if I ever showed any signs of being depressed or having any kind of mental deterioration after spending nearly two years in total solitude!
What does Mars actually look like?
A meticulously researched, briskly paced and surprisingly funny story about an astronaut left behind on Mars, presumed dead, who must now figure out how to survive and let the folks back on Earth know he is alive and needs rescue.
You can tell Andy Weir loves his space exploration and knows a ton about it.
The Martian is a fast read, and the main character’s irrepressible sense of humor will have you cheering for him as he tries to survive against impossible odds.
(Long story.) If you’re looking for a fast-paced, believable space adventure set in present day, this is your book.
My only real issues were that some of the minor characters didn't really stand out as much as they could've, and some of the science heavy bits were a little hard to follow and felt info-dumpy at times.
But the human aspect--the heart of the story--was totally on point, and for the most part I just had a great time reading this!Overall, this book was exciting and fun and oh man, am I excited for the movie!
I would definitely recommend this to anyone who likes survival stories or funny thrillers or sci-fi with an emphasis on the sci!
I have never wanted so badly for the characters in a book to be real.
I want to meet them all the way I want to meet the president, or Taylor Swift.This story is perfectly told.
It is perfectly paced, it is brilliantly written, it is beautifully crafted.Andy Weir does this incredible thing where he make the reader feel the isolation that Mark Wagner feels, and he does it so subtly, we don't even realize that he's doing it until it's done.The Martian completely captivated me.
I couldn't wait to find out what happened next, and I never wanted it to end.
I go so emotional at the end, so good!
In this book, Mark Watney becomes one of the first people to walk on Mars but after an accident causes him to be believed dead and abandoned by his crew, it looks like he will be the first person to die there.
Like Cast Away x a million, Mark must battle extremely foreign territory, the likelihood of starvation, and the possibility of technical failures.It's pretty hard to see an outcome where he isn't totally screwed.The best thing about this book is the juxtaposition between the very scientific nature of everything Mark must do to survive - gave me a renewed level of respect for how damn smart astronauts have to be - and his absolutely wonderful personality.
I'm so happy that I randomly decided to pick this book up! I did find that the story dragged a bit towards the end and some of things went over my head a little bit, but for the most part this was a fantastic read!
”So that is the situation. I’m stranded on Mars. I have no way to communicate with Hermes or Earth. Everyone thinks I’m dead. I’m in a Hab designed to last thirty-one days. If the oxygenator breaks down, I’ll suffocate. If the water reclaimer breaks down, I’ll die of thirst. If the Hab breaches, I’ll just kind of explode. If none of those things happen, I’ll eventually run out of food and starve to death. So yea. I’m fucked.”When I read the line “kind of explode” I couldn’t help thinking of Arn
I’ll wait for the next mission to a blue planet thank you very much.Mark Watney, Mars astronaut, has a lot to worry about.
And if you think things are bad after opening the piss box, imagine the smell after I drop anchor.”When he finds a way to communicate with Earth in one of his more spectacular MacGuyver moments they tell him that he is going to have to drive to another site where there is a rocket ship, already delivered, waiting for the next mission.
i have finally seen the movie, so i added some notes at the bottom.this book is basically just a really long SAT question. and i so hope the movie is just matt damon sitting at a table doing equations for two and a half hours. oh but first, as promised, here are the photos of me being an astronaut this past weekend.  zooooom! i am orbiting the eeeeeeaaaarttthh!! i did a really good job at astronauting and i didn't need to do math even once! (although i started experiencing cramped space-madness
i'm definitely glad i read the book first, but at the end of the day, i'm not sure if there's an answer about which is "better." book wins:some of my favorite harrowing "OH NO" moments from the book did not make it into the movie (like that sudden realization which sends him scurrying outside for a long time), and also some of my favorite solutions were absent (hair).
but overall, the most interesting stuff got cut from the movie - stuff on mars, stuff on hermes, stuff on ground, etc.movie wins:having a montage to look at while math goes on and on in a voice-over is way more interesting than me kidding myself reading the math paragraphs several times like suddenly i'm gonna get it.
Skip forward to early October when I saw the movie (twice), and then immediately went out and bought another copy of the book (yeah, I was so sure last time that I gave it away.
However, as the book progressed, I realized that there wasn't enough of this to make me fully dislike Mark's portions, so all was well.I also really wish that the book was like double the size so we could have had more time to get to know the Ares 3 crew, but there's nothing I can do about that so WHATEVER.
There’s a reason people are talking about this book.I just don’t fucking get it.I think I am the only person on GR to give this pile a one star rating.
I wanted desperately to fit in with the Goodreads community and love the shit out of this book and start farting rainbows every time I saw the title.
I think they’re still up there somewhere because I can’t for the life of me understand why people find this book is so awe-inspiring.I loved the concept.
Just for the love of god, don’t write another book.
I read because I love books.
I’m stranded on Mars. I have no way to communicate with Hermes or Earth. Everyone thinks I’m dead. I’m in a Hab designed to last 31 days.If the Oxygenator breaks down, I’ll suffocate. If the Water Reclaimer breaks down, I’ll die of thirst. If the Hab breaches, I’ll just kind of explode. If none of those things happen, I’ll eventually run out of food and starve to death.So yeah. I’m fucked. If you think about it, Robinson Crusoe is kind of a whiny pussy, I say, while sitting in my plush computer
This book was fan-fucking-tastic.It is filled with humor, it's got a adequate depiction of science that wouldn't confuse a layman like me (not sure how technically correct it is, but it sounds adequate to me, and while I'm not a scientist, neither am I a moron), it's got diversity and female scientists, the narrator is this brilliant genius while having the humor of a 17-year old DotA gamer/frat boy.
As it turns out, botany is more useful for his survival than you would think.Because now that he's alive and back in the Martian Habitat (the "Hab"), Mark's got to set out a plan for survival.
Sometimes I'm lucky enough to come across a book that makes me go all Whee-heeee! with the sincerest glee rivaling that of over-sugared-up kids about to open Christmas gifts. “I can't wait till I have grandchildren. “When I was younger, I had to walk to the rim of a crater. Uphill! In an EVA suit! On Mars, ya little shit! Ya hear me? Mars!” A book that makes me willingly turn my chronically sleep-deprived state into the acutely sleep-deprived one as I battle somnolence at 4 a.m. so that I can re
But what makes this book my literary soulmate and more addicting for me than a bag of crack laced with meth and sprinkled with chocolate (or whatever the drugs of choice may be now) is Mark Watney's near constant wisecracking that is EXACTLY the humor I *get* and I (sadly, perhaps) inflict on others.[NASA guy on Earth]: “What must it be like?” He pondered.
“I wonder what he’s thinking right now.”[MARK'S JOURNAL ON MARS]: LOG ENTRY: SOL 61How come Aquaman can control whales?
No wonder Mark Watney can call himself the King of Mars.
If The Martian isn't a million dollar blockbuster in the next 5 years, Hollywood have missed a treat.
I read the entire thing in one sitting, making it probably the best way to pass 8 hours that I can think of.
Maybe it helps that I came to the book with no expectations, except the hope that I might get my next 'fix' for my inner space geek.
It's the kind of book I'd like my future children to read, to help them understand the importance of science.
If The Martian was marketed as a prescription drug… Every year, thousands of critical readers around the globe roll their eyes in frustration at the science fails they find within their favorite fiction genres.Extreme cases of literary frankenscience carry the risk of full-blown ocular gymnastics on the part of the reader. As a result, serious injury has been reported, to include corneal abrasions, iritis, and sprains of the lateral and medial rectus muscles.Luckily, there is a cure.The Martian
As a result, serious injury has been reported, to include corneal abrasions, iritis, and sprains of the lateral and medial rectus muscles.Luckily, there is a cure.The Martian, consumed in single doses, has been clinically proven to reduce the instances of ocular wounds in critical readers, especially those familiar with orbital dynamics, physics, chemistry, biology, and common fucking sense.**DISCLAIMER**The most common side effect from reading The Martian is emotional instability brought on by rapid changes in the reader’s mood as they follow the daily mission logs of the main character, Mark Watney, and his struggle to survive on a planet that humans clearly have no business being on.Other common side effects include drowsiness due to lack of sleep from being up until four o’clock in the fucking morning because you couldn’t put the book down because things keep happening and JESUS CHRIST, HOW HASN’T HE DIED YET, as well as pain.
Mission Control to Reviewer One...Reviewer One, here. Go ahead, Mission Control...Lift off minus fifteen. Final Systems Check...Roger, Mission Control...Characters... Go...Story... Go...Style... Go...Overall Reading Experience... Go...Roger, Reviewer One. All Systems are Go. Iniating Countdown.Ten! Nine! Eight! Seven! Six! Five! Four! Three! Two!...One! Lift off! We have a lift off!...Welcome to CNN's Reviewer One Report. Presented to you thanks to the sponsorship of "The Martian"'s Quotes... No
Don't get me wrong, I appreciate the effort of making this story as realistic scientific possible but sometimes was like wanting to read a novel but ending with a college book.
Welcome back to CNN's Reviewer One Report.CNN: What do you think about the style of the novel?R1: I like it since the author alternates regular paragraphs of text with some enhanced text simulating the communication used through electronics.
Welcome back to CNN's Reviewer One Report.CNN: Closing our interview, what was your overall reading experience with the novel?R1: I think that it could be quite better with fewer pages and/or less too much detailed explanations full of scientific facts impossibly to retain in your head.
Weir doesn't even make an ATTEMPT to channel human emotions at any point in the novel.
The book is like a science textbook with random lame jokes sprinkled on top.
NO - more as if someone had asked Weir to write a thesis on how to survive on Mars, and yet allowed him to throw in as many "fucks" and lame jokes as he wanted.
Not even a semblance of any human relationships or interactions that aren't based on scientific discussions.I was attached to and cared about exactly zero people in this book.
But everything changes when a freak accident strands astronaut Mark Watney on Mars.In a crazy-bad storm on the surface, Watney gets stabbed with flying debris, knocked away from his crew, and his suit's vital readings flatline.
And the downside of someone like me reading a book like this is that there's A LOT of it that blew over my head.Garble-mumble molecule + Mumble-garble molecule = Fizzy-pop moleculeWhich means Mark survives for another day!WHOOSH!Between the science (damn you, smart people!) and the diary/log way that most of this story is written, you'd think I would've hated this sucker.
It is insanely well-researched, and it's impossible not to be charmed by Mark Watney's hilarious sense of humor, or jeez-MY-brain-is-filled-with-absolutely-useless-information-impressed by his smarts, ingenuity, and spirit.I will say that after a few chapters, I started skimming some of the more technical parts of what he was doing to survive.
I normally love this stuff, and certainly I absolutely DID enjoy much of what was here and sincerely appreciated the amount of research and experimentation that went into his Mark's scientific calculations.
That's a fucking bargain for the amount of awesome crammed into these pages.So impressed this was a debut--I hope we get many more books by this author in the future.
How many exclamation points can you shove into one book?Time to start off 2015 with an unpopular opinion: I did not like how Andy Weir wrote The Martian.
His rampant optimism felt unrealistic in the context of his situation, and Weir developed his other characters in a similar one-dimensional, stereotypical, and disappointing way.
My overall thoughts on The Martian center on its lack of introspection and repetitive descriptions of action, its disconcerting lack of characterization, and the drought of struggle each of the characters underwent.
Watney faces a difficult situation, but I at no point in my entire reading thought he would suffer, based on his Pollyanna tone.
Mark Watney. I just can't even tell you how much I love this character. I think he may just be on the list of my favorite male characters ever. The dude is stranded on Mars..with no one. Does he cry? Well, only sometimes. Does he fight against the planet from hell? Heck yes! Everywhere I go, I'm the first. Step outside the rover? First guy to every be there! Climb a hill? First guy to climb that hill! Kick a rock? That rock hadn't moved in a million years! I did get lost in some of the science o
I just can't even tell you how much I love this character.
The dude is stranded on Mars..with no one.
Climb a hill?
First guy to climb that hill!
Kick a rock?
That rock hadn't moved in a million years!
If I ever get trapped on Mars I would probably die in 2.5 seconds.
Mark Watney is full of snark and is probably the smartest character I've even had the pleasure of reading in a novel.
One of the comments he makes is that women don't line up for botanist/nerds.
Dude...
start the line behind me please!
i was so annoyed by how cheap everything was i went on an imessage rampage pointing out which terrestrial american aircraft cost ten times as much as the surely trillion dollar mars-to-orbit craft weir prices like he's the home shopping network.
$200 million sounds like a lot, until you find out that there's a piece of software running the windscreen wipers on a b2 stealth bomber that costs more than andy weir's entire spacecraft.aaaaaaand for the nitty-gritty of where i thought this novel failed as a novel, which i chose to express in catty gifs instead of catty words as usual, go read this guy.
4.5 starsThis whole book left me stupid happy and deliriously impressed and I spent most of my time declaring:Jesse would have loved Mark Watney.
I love Mark Watney.
Watney is also a funny, the glass is half-full kind of guy who gets repeatedly knocked on his ass but finds a way to get right back up again.
It's definitely an adventure survival story (my favorite kind), and just like Tom Hanks, Watney finds himself stranded and completely alone.
There's a lot of geeked out science descriptions, but I found most of it to be pretty accessible, even to a softcore sci-fi gal like myself.

You are an astronaut, the immensely able, Mark Watney, with a great, glamorous job, until stranded through a freak accident, on the desolate, airless, extremely cold, red deserts of Mars, in the mid 2030's, a powerful dust storm has apparently , killed...the five others in the crew, ( originally four men and two women, including the commander, Melissa Lewis) they barely escape , themselves, with their lives, up into orbit, in a small spacecraft, rejoining the massive, very expensive, Hermes vessel , on a long, sad voyage, of hundreds of days, back home to Earth, its ion engines slowly accelerating in limitless, merciless space, leaving their dead companion, behind, a shame , but nothing can change this fact, except that Mark is still alive...The lone, not badly wounded spaceman, regains consciousness, sees a frightening sight...he's all alone on the vast planet, and says, I'm pretty much screwed, ( admittedly, not an exact translation) the castaway, repeats this frequently, in the story.
Mark Watney is stranded on Mars in the near future.
If that makes sense.
Mark's crew thinks he's dead.
He got incredibly lucky, just as his character Mark did.I had to set a lot of my critical brain cells apart, while reading this book.
Mark does not have a single moment of retrospection.
He keeps on coming up with solutions and keeps on making jokes about his plight.
Despite that I had no problem in reading The Martian.
I'm glad to have renewed ties with the sci fi genre with such a wonderful book.
A good portion of the book is done as his first person log entries with the idea that he thinks he’s making a record to be found long after his death, but rather then give in to self-pity or despair Mark cracks jokes.These log entries show a sense of goofy humor that initially make you think that NASA standards must have slipped badly, but behind that you see that Mark is bringing an impressive problem solving intellect and understanding of science to his situation.
But so do you, so don’t judge.”Log Entry: Sol 12“Things are finally going my way.”Log Entry: Sol 13“I am fucked, and I’m gonna die.”“I came up with a brilliant plan that didn’t work.”“I guess you could call it a "failure", but I prefer the term "learning experience".” Let’s try the traditional approach to reviewing…Alternatively…The sit is clear from the start: Mark Watney is a US astronaut, left alone on Mars, presumed dead, when the crew make an emergency evacuation: “I’m stranded on Mars.
