https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1030934.The_Birds
I laid a blanket down at a local park that offered a clear view of the thrill rides in the distance, and pulled a book from my bag.
Following the debacle of my day of peace, I made a mental note to read this little book this October.The Birds is an eerie and perfectly atmospheric classic short story by one of my favorite authors.
You might not look at those cute little songbirds outside your window the same way ever again."They waited and watched… on the hedge-rows, on the soil, crowded in the trees, outside in the field, line upon line of birds, all still, doing nothing."
Many people believed that misery had befallen the family because of this reason, meaning birds had become the town's enemy because of one of their species being kept imprisoned.Film poster of Alfred Hitchcock's "The Birds" (1963).The book has no bar where the town's folk keep blaming Tippi Hedren for bringing misfortune to their town as she is "an outsider" and does not belong here.
While I liked Hitchcock's movie "The Birds", and admittedly it is a classic in film history, to me somehow, it doesn't quite equal Daphne du Maurier's original tale.
They are very different, almost unrecognizable, and the novel delivers it's horror much more subtlety than the film, but just as effectively.
There are other noticeable differences also, the setting most obvious.
The novel is set in Cornwall England on the seashore.
The movie, for reasons of convenience, is set in Bodega Bay, California.
The characters and events in the story are also much different.
Both are very good, I just prefer the book.
Mir war das vor der gemeinsamen Lektüre in einer Leserunde gar nicht bekannt.
Das sind die schlimmsten Horrorgeschichten für mich.Du Mauriers Vögel ist vom Aufbau eine klassische Kurzgeschichte.
Die Vögel greifen auch relativ unmittelbar die Familie des Protagonisten an, der sich in das Haus zurückzieht.
Danach bleibt nicht mehr viel Zeit, um sich von dem Schrecken vor der Tür ein Bild zu machen.
Dann beginnt die zweite Nacht, der Kontakt zur Zivilisation bricht ab und mit dem abrupten Ende, welches ja auch wieder typisch für ein Kurzgeschichte ist, kann man dann seiner Phantsie freien Lauf lassen.
Das Buch ist unmittelbar erschreckend und unerwartet apokalyptisch.
Very atmospheric horror story about birds attacking humans in England. They come in like the planes in formation during the Blitz. Nat, a resourceful veteran, tries to protect his family. (I shouldn't have read it right before bedtime!)
Weshalb die Vögel den Koller kriegen, bleibt dem Leser verborgen und ist auch gar nicht weiter interessant.
Denn gerade aus der Unkenntnis der Gründe entspringt das Unheimliche dieses existentiellen Überlebenskampfes zwischen Mensch und Kreatur.
Es ist vor allem die absolute Gleichmütigkeit und das bedrohliche Schweigen mit denen die gefiederten Freunde zu Werke gehen, durch die sich beim Lesen allmählich eine unterschwellige Beunruhigung überträgt.
Eine mögliche Auflösung bleibt der eigenen Fantasie überlassen.Zuerst war ich skeptisch, ob das Buch neben dem Hitchcock-Klassiker überhaupt noch bestehen kann.
Eine Gruselstory an der ich rein gar nichts auszusetzen habe.
Smith mit seiner Crabs-Serie an die Novelle angelehnt; so greifen auch die Vögel in Abhängigkeit von den Gezeiten die Menschen an und Militär und Regierung sind unfähig, geeignete Gegenmaßnahmen zu ergreifen (warum die Vögel nun aber gerade im Dunkeln angreifen sollten, hat sich mir trotz allem nicht erschlossen und ist nur als dramatisches Mittel zu verstehen).Was THE BIRDS auch heute noch hören- und lesenswert macht ist aus meiner Sicht die klaustrophobisch apokalyptische Grundstimmung, die mit großer Eindringlichkeit transportiert wird.Du Maurier beschreibt das Szenario auch mit Begriffen aus der Kriegsführung und so entstanden beim englischen Leser der frühen 50er Jahre sicherlich Reminiszenzen an die Traumata der englischen Landbevölkerung durch Fliegerangriffe im zweiten Weltkrieg.
I have loved the movie since I was a kid!
I have wanted to read it for awhile now!
I listened to the Audible version, which is new to me, and I loved it.
I wasn't feeling well, and having someone read to me, was so cool!
The book is very different than the Alfred Hitchcock movie, but that didn't bother me at all!
I was truly scared and worried for these people.
The story really did unsettle me.
Even though, I knew what the premise was and there were no surprises, DuMaurier really drew me in and did more than just tell a story....I experienced the story!
If all you know about The Birds is the Hitchcock movie, I suggest your go ahead and read the book. The only thing the movie and the book have in common is that Birds go homicidal and attack humans. As different as the movie and book are, there both great stories.
Die Beziehungen zwischen den Figuren spielen kaum eine Rolle.Auch wenn man die Geschichte als unterhaltende Horrorgeschichte lesen kann (und vielleicht auch einfach sollte), drängt sich eine mögliche Deutung auf, die ein Nachbar der im Mittelpunkt stehenden Familie nahelegt.
Steckt da mehr dahinter?Etwas entrüstet hat mich allerdings die Tatsache, dass alle Namen tragen, selbst der Kuhhirt und die Nachbarin, aber die Frau der Hauptfigur wird immer nur „seine Frau“ genannt (als Erzähler tritt ihr Mann Nat auf).
Na ja, aber die Frauen in  Rebecca glänzen ja auch durch ihre Opferrolle.Am meisten Spaß hat man aber an der Geschichte, wenn man sich über Politik und Geschlechterrollen nicht den Kopf zerbricht.
I loved the Alfred Hitchcock film taken from this book and that was probably what drew me to reading this novel but although the story is similar the book is a completely different experience. Written in the classic style that du Maurier uses so well the book is thought provoking and although different from the film it is still packed with suspense. Another classic read from this master of suspense.
For a short story, it's amazingly frightening. du Maurier is brilliant. I had nightmares for months after this one and never felt the same about birds!
Puede llegar a ser muy útil tener una enciclopedia del reino animal al lado (o Google, en caso de haber olvidado también qué era una enciclopedia), sobre todo porque al enemigo es mejor conocerlo bien.
Nat es el que conoce a los pájaros, los entiende y el lector empieza a pensar en por qué el gobierno de Gran Bretaña no lo llama a él para solucionar el problema.
Hay algo que no se puede negar: la historia es horrorosa y deja mucho para pensar, sobre todo por el contexto que envuelve a Nat. A excepción de la acumulación que mencioné anteriormente, la narración es muy buena y provoca tensión en momentos clave.
A very creepy and claustrophobic novel.I really liked all the WWII references.
Could the London subway system - which was a vital shelter during the blitz - be nearly as secure against an enemy like the birds as it was against German bombs?
And I also have to wonder about all the references to Communism...
Cold war terrors certainly play a big part here - with the winds from the east, and whispers that the Russians are at fault.
But is du Maurier just pulling in the paranoia from the time to make a point about that, or is she actually trying to predict what the Cold War might evolve to?
Creepy short story in true du Maurier fashion.
A brilliant novella (and much better than the movie) which transforms the horrors British families have lived through during WWII into an atmospheric horror story about birds amassing and starting to attack people.
There is a deep sense of dread prevailing throughout the story, and you feel as helpless and as frustrated as the people in it in your inability to do anything to save them, or even understand what is going on and why.
Birds are dark and come from above, you can't communicate or haggle with them and you can't understand them, just like most things that happen in people's lives.
Daphne du Maurier is never a disappointment and this short story was no exception. Always atmospheric in her writing and gripping to the end.
Captivating from the start, this was a thrilling read. Though short and predictable, du Maurier is able to keep the suspense real and evident throughout the story.
عنوان: پرندگان؛ نویسنده: دافنه دو موریه؛ مترجم: علی مسعودی نیا؛ ویراستار: میلاد کامیابیان؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، به نگار، 1393، در 83 ص، شابک: 9786006835440؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان انگلیس قرن 20 م
I'm a little behind on my reading goal for this year, (4 books!) and so I was counting on Audible to help me out with some short horror that I could listen to and multitask and feel productive.
Nothing is ever really explained or fully resolved by the end, and the reader is given the chance to play god (so to speak) and fix things up in their mind regarding the way the story wraps up.
It feels like the story ends just when things are starting to get crazy.
I'm OK with leaving the story open ended so that the reader can resolve things in the way that they are most hoping to see.
A lot more terrifying than the film.The various species of birds, so different in size, behaviour and place on the food chain, consolidate in a mass homogenous threat, like a natural calamity the humans are helpless to stop or hide from - like a faceless, indifferent force driven by an unknown but relentless impulse to destroy.
The birds don't seem motivated by anything, they don't appear to have determination or a purpose - they're like a force of nature, like the persistent east wind, uncontrollable, impenetrable, impossible to reason with or scare, or stop by any means known to man.
September 2017I read this book in 6th grade, along with Poe's The Tell-Tale Heart, and Hawthorne's Rappaccini's Daughter. All were made for the horror-loving tween. I guess I am trying to relive my youth, bibliographicly so to speak. At 10 year old, I loved to starkness of the story. A bleak outcropping with a house jutting over the sea. The 43 year old me loves the same. The movie The Birds is loosely based on this story. And by loosely based I mean they both have birds, and the birds attack people, but other than that, they are worlds apart.
I read this awhile ago and I have to say this book still resonates with me. I'm not one for horror books as this is classified, but I did like this a lot. It creeped me out more so than the movie did.
Nat and his family live on the British coastline when one night a variety of birds attack the children's bedroom.
The next day, Nat inquires with his neighbors, but they treat him like a lunatic.
What has happened to the birds?I enjoyed that the story was very suspenseful.
But even big typhoons only last for a day or two.
In this story, Nat has to not only think about food, but also fuel, candles, timber (to secure the windows)...We live in a world that is so interconnected and interdependent, if a major AND unexpected disaster strikes, what are we going to do?
BBC audio dramatization.Less than 1 hr in duration.Production values: 5 *sStory: 2 *sI couldn't stand "Sue," the wife. the child "Maggie" had too much dialogue for my taste. I don't like much to do with children in books I read unless I am in fact reading a children's book.
So different from the Hitchcock film. It is dark, sinister, claustrophobic and terrifying. The farmer is clever and a survivor but unlikely to save his family against nature's power in the birds.No beautiful heroes just a farming family trying to survive. It is so well written that we feel we are living with the family - the poor father trying to protect his family from the birds and the truth of the mayhem they have created. At the end the farmer is smoking his rainy day cigarette and we are left to imagine their dreadful fate.
ok, I'm not sure I listened to the whole thing? I downloaded it from my library and it said part 1 but I couldn't find any other parts. what I did hear I liked very much! there is so much going on in the story that is only hinted at and I liked that. I'm looking forward to reading more by this author.
So, my oldest casually tells me he has about a page left in his homework assignment... he is reading The Birds by Daphne du Maurier! I tell him to hand over his book so I can finally read this short story by my favorite author of suspense. And that's how I spent the last hour. Thank you to his English teacher, for exposing these students to what truly great story-writing looks like.
Con Los pájaros debuto con Daphne du Maurier. ¿Y qué decir? Simplemente es un relato maravilloso, de esos que se leen en una sola sentada. Amé. Y con respecto a Hitchcook, insisto: sus adaptaciones son bastante pobres. Le sigo agradeciendo el acercarme a autores y ficciones alucinantes.
I never found Hitchcock’s movie frightening. This dramatization of the original story is horrifying.
