https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39339072-risky-business
★★★★✩Well narrated by Gabra Zackman. Difficult to rate this book NR wrote way back in 1986. Twenty-five years ago! Parts of it definitely dipped down to 3 stars, but others were excellent. At certain times the pacing is off. Neat to see the romantic suspense writer she will become, but hard not to compare it to the best of to her current work. I love a good treasure hunt and a diving story, so I’m going with four stars.
Review haiku:Murder brings lawyerTo diving business owner.Love in Cozumel.
The hero is smoking without any comment by anyone around him, he simply goes ahead and not only visits the parents of the heroine without her knowledge, he even takes her ten-year-old daughter alone out to the zoo and buys her stuff.
Today this comes over as rather skeevy, just as his comments about said daughter.The writing was so incredibly facile that I ended up being very astonished about the success of this author.
This is less than what I'd expect a teenaged girl to write these days.Some reviewers commented on the "arseholish hero".
Just that he is mild-mannered compared to the idiot alpha hunks populating romance right now.I don't recommend this book.
Another good NR oldie. Wonderful suspense with the drug-trafficking ring, great pacing, and wonderful hero. The heroine bugged me, though, which came as a huge surprise. And it’s because of her indecision, her insecurity, and her inability to face the truth about herself, that lowered the rating for this story. I could’ve done without all her “angst”.Still, it was a pleasurable, quick, exciting, and intriguing read.
DNFLa seule chose sympa à propos de ce bouquin, c'est sa couverture fleurie.Pour le reste, et bien que j'apprécie les romans de Nora Roberts en temps normal, je n'ai pas pu entrer dans l'intrigue ni m'attacher un minimum aux personnages.Dommage.
While not the most likable man, he and Liz do the romance dance as the mystery unfolds and eventually find themselves having an island romance.
When the mystery is solved and Liz decides to send Jonas on his way, it gets creepy.Having been told no thank you by Liz and sent packing back to the States, he takes it upon himself to contact her parents and said parents allow an unaccompanied visit to Liz's ten year old daughter to the local zoo!
And when the daughter and parents come for their summer visit with Mr Creepy tagging along with an engagement rock, Liz is flabbergasted and says yes!
Gostei tanto desta história, para além das paisagens de Cozumel de sonho gostei da forma como Jonas e Liz se apaixonam a par de tudo o mistério inerente ao crime em questão e aquele final foi mesmo cute com a filha dela de regresso aos braços da mãe na ilha!
These were some REALLY DUMB villains! Aside from that, it was a good read for what it was: an 80s romance. You know what to expect and you get it...although, the hero wasn't NEARLY as big a jerk as I've read from other books in the same time period.
Loved the setting, Carribbean. Again, some romance, a d some mystery. Good combination !!!
El libro en general está bien.
La trama es buena, aunque puede ser algo predecible, sorprende bastante una vez resuelto el caso.
Creo que este libro ganaría mucho más si se le añadieran 50 o 100 páginas detallando lo que sucede desde que se resuelve el caso para poder entender bien el final de la novela y hacerlo creíble, ya que hay un salto temporal y el final llega de repente.En resumen, el misterio me ha gustado, lo que no me ha terminado es como se resuelve la historia entre los protagonistas.
Nora Roberts tiene una enorme capacidad de entretener, cierto que algunos libros son mucho mejores que otros, pero no podemos negar su enorme capacidad de entretener, con libros románticos con toques de suspenso e intriga.Enmarcado en la isla de Cozumel, los protagonistas se ven envueltos en un asesinato y narcotraficantes, aunque el argumento pareciera pesado, la realidad es que es muy pero que muy ligero.
An interesting mystery.
I've read so many Nora Roberts books over the years, I'm really out of compliments on her work.
*LOL*This is a typical Nora Roberts book.
You have a heroine who became pregnant in college and for reasons explained in the book, she leaves her home and even her country to start a new life with her daughter.
She winds up creating a successful business and a comfortable life for her and her child.The book starts when the glass-bottomed boat she is captaining comes across a horrrific scene.
To a point, I can understand why this story is so offensively patriarchal; the book is from the late 80s - things were different then.
However, a weak-willed heroine plus an over-bearing-to-the-point-of-ridiculousness hero with a completely unrealistic masculine pov, multiplied by an unbelievable (in a bad way) love story, equaled lots of skipped pages.
It sucked, because if the romance part had been better the book would be a really fun read.From now on, I will endeavor to check the decade of first publication the next time I check out a Nora Roberts book, even if it's on sale for kindle.
Risky Business is one of Nora Roberts' earlier works, which shows. It's a nice book with lots of suspense, but it lacks the superb quality of her later works. I find it difficult to refrain myself from comparing it to her current works, which would not be fair. The characters are likeable, the suspense is well-done and the mystery well thought out. I enjoyed reading it, but I don't think I will re-read this book as I often do her other works.
Ben blijven lezen, dit boek leest lekker weg in gezelschap van zon. Net echt ;)
I actually think I wanted this to be shorter, which is not something I say about a category length title very often.
Re-read
I hadn't realized that this too would be a book that revolved heavily around scuba diving and the ocean (with both female protagonists have a passion for both).
The employee, Jerry, has a twin brother, Jonas, who is a lawyer with his own practice in Philadelphia.
Where Liz wants nothing to do with the mystery, Jonas is determined to have her help in finding his brother's killer.
By the time he starts feeling guilty over this, Liz's life has been threatened and he realizes she's in it now, whether or not either of them likes it, and determines to protect her.
Un homme sombre, déterminé, et visiblement prêt à tout pour découvrir la vérité.
Un homme auprès de qui Liz ressent aussitôt un trouble déstabilisant.
Alors que son instinct lui dicte de rester en dehors de cette affaire qui pourrait se révéler très dangereuse, elle accepte à contrecour de louer une chambre à Jonas le temps que durera son enquête, tout en se promettant de rester prudemment à distance.
Mais quand elle comprend que le tueur semble désormais prêt à s'en prendre à elle, Liz n'a plus le choix : il va lui falloir faire confiance à Jonas
Typical Nora Roberts, excellent twist-filled mystery and plenty ofromance A single mother who gives everything for her child, even letting her be away for months to get a better education.
The arrival of the brother of her murdered employee not only creates more mystery to untangle, but also makes her feel emotions she closed off when she made the decision to raise her daughter alone.A great read which has everything I’ve come to expect from Nora Roberts.
Not too gooey, just enough that it feels right and the mystery is not obvious and is resolved perfectly.
Diving for loveNot sure how I missed reading this when it was first released as I've been reading Nora Roberts for more than 30 years. The ending surprised me and I loved Jonas and Liz together. Having been alone and pregnant at 18, Liz has always been independent. Jonas provides the support and encouragement she needs to face her past to have the future she can only imagine. Perfect Nora Roberts story with suspense and romance to keep the reader on the edge of their seat!
Business as usualNora Roberts never seems to fail me she keeps me enthralled even if I've read it before they're still details when you do a second we pick up line . She is the only writer that I don't have a problem with reading two and three times over and over because that's how good she is don't ever change your style stick to what you do best don't veer off the path.
This was an old Nora Roberts book. It was a very predictable story with a hero who was a little too forceful with the heroine at times, but still a good read. Her newer books have far more depth, but I still like to read her oldies to see how far she's come.
Written in 1986, this classic Roberts romance does have a mystery; based in Mexico at a skin diver's rental / lessons shop. I still enjoy these earlier books, though the characters are less developed than her later ones.
Nota Roberts Doesn't Disappoint Bought this kindle version of Risky Business because I have always liked her writing. My family was talking about getting rid of paper copies. I said let me read them ONE more time!
It was a great story. Captivated me and kept me interested. It would have gotten 4 or 5 stars but the love story really rubbed me the wrong way and the circumstances that the main characters got together intimately felt very wrong. Overall, it would have been a great story if not for that.
I don’t love these 1980s era Nora Roberts books. The men are bullies and the women have psychological trauma and self doubt. And there’s always smoking built in that’s irrelevant to the story. Anyway, it would be fun to see some of these plot lines rebuilt for the 21st century.
RISKY BUSINESS Nora Roberts is one of my favorite authors, regardless of whether it is a new book or old. This is one of her older books, and it was great. Good suspense, nice romance.
Great as alwaysI always enjoy Nora Roberts' books. I was sorry to see this one end. A young woman is caught up in Risky Business not of her own making. I loved the interesting twist at the end. Some romance and a lot of mystery and suspense. Can't ask for anything more!
