https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/682919.Two_from_Galilee
I figured, I already knew the story of Mary and Joseph, so how interesting could this be?
But one thing the book did really well was make them into real people and the more I read, the more involved I got.I really liked their different views of God. Joseph viewed God as this big God with more important things to do than listen to the prayers of one poor carpenter.
But Mary saw God in everything, thinking that if he's a part of all those small moments, liking blessing their meals, he must be a part of her life too.
I liked the contrast.The story also incorporated the expectations of the people.
This is my second reading of this book. I read it the first time about 20 years ago and loved it. My opinion hasn't changed. Although fictitious with lots of liberties in regard to personalities and family descriptions, the scriptural evidence of the miraculous birth of Jesus Christ is retold in a personal, tender way. Reading it before the month of December begins has helped me be in the frame of mind to think more deeply about that sweet babe and His humble beginnings, as well as the sacrifices Mary and Joseph made to bring him into the world.
I LOVED reading this book and finishing it right before Christmas. It really brings their love story to life. I really liked it and had no problem with any of the fiction the author added. It was so fun to read during th Holiday season, too.
I really wanted to like this book, but it read like a cheap romance novel disguised as historical fiction.
What a beautiful story about the true meaning of Christmas.
Told through the eyes of Mary, Joseph and other members of their family, Marjorie Holmes meticulously crafted this story of love and the promise of salvation for all.
What I liked about this book was that the reader got to imagine what it was like for the Blessed Mother when she found out she was with child.
I also enjoyed the romance between Mary and Joseph; I found it to be very heartwarming.
Overall I highly recommend this book for anyone who wants a touching story about the Christian faith.
Marjorie Holme’s Two From Galilee imagines the story of that child’s parents, Mary and Joseph, in their small town of Nazareth in Galilee.
Families dream of great futures for their children, love intervenes, and unplanned pregnancies are as hard a fate to cope with then as now.
But this pregnancy has more than the usual cause behind it, and the author blends a well-drawn evocative vision of time and place with nicely imagined mystery and deep faith.
If you’ve ever wanted to imagine how Mary felt, or even her mother, this is the book for you.Disclosure: A friend loaned me this book.

I will admit to struggling with fiction written about real people. I always wonder what they are thinking of the fictional dialogue and situations. I wouldn't want someone to fictionalize my life. Parts of the book were interesting, and some parts dragged on too long, but the thing that made me put the book down was that it seems wrong somehow to fictionalize the life of the mother of our Savior. It just seems icky. I know a lot people like this book, and that is fine, but it isn't for me.
Two from Galilee is a Must read. It is the most beautiful story Every writtenI have read this book each year and can never put it down. You are there with Mary and Joseph as they are given the glorious honor of God's love for us all. As you walk with them in this book you realize all the human journey they walked . Share and read this marvelous book and share in His ponderous love. You will cry with them and breath the joy that they share and we share each day through his birth.
I first read this at my brother's when I was newly married and had the then-popular short 'fro perm, so I'm guessing 1979? I like to read this at Christmas time and think about how it must have been.... Like the author, just to sit and ponder that these were real people and this miracle actually happened in their previously ordinary lives.
This was an OK book. I didn't really agree with the author's interpretation of the characters, especially Mary's parents. I could see why this would be appealing to read, most people like to read a good love story, right. But, the assumptions of how each person felt just didn't seem right to me.
What a great Book! I loved the way this book made Mary and Joseph so real to me! Great love story! Loved seeing more into the Jewish Culture.
I read this 20 years ago. I read it again this week. I still like it.
Books like that always make me think. I've read this scriptural account many, many times, but putting these characters into a fictional story--supposing their actions and thoughts--made these people come alive. It made me wonder what they really did and said, and what they truly thought and felt. It was a good story with a lot of elements that we had fun discussing at our book club.
I also loved in the book that Joseph and Mary were alone for the birth.
Yes, Mary was the mother, but Joseph was the chosen father.
As Mary pointed out in one part of the book, her job would be to birth the baby and feed him, but then, since the child was a boy, the responsibility fell on the father to raise the child and teach him the ways of Scripture and work and right and wrong.
I read this as a teenager and LOVED it.
I read it again this month and really enjoyed it.
It's helped me see the nativity and Christmas story in a much more personal and real light.
I've never considered what a scandal it must have been for Mary to become pregnant while engaged (but not married) to Joseph - or how hard it must have been for him and for the parents and friends of both of them.
Was she the subject of scorn, ridicule and gossip?I've always been fascinated by Mary and would love to know more of her story.
Great Christmas book!
Marjorie Holmes in Two from Galilee paints a beautiful picture of the Christmas story.
She begins her story with the development of Mary's character and a depiction of what her life and family were like before she began the greatest adventure of her life.
Holmes closely follows the Biblical narrative of Mary's and Joseph's story creatively weaving in descriptions of the terrain of Israel and the hardships faced by the Israelites.
Of course we know the end to this story; however, the author brings it to life in a way I have never experienced before.
I really enjoyed this book.
This is the story of Mary and Joseph as love interests, as a couple, as the unexpected recipients of a miracle.
Obviously the author had to fictionalize many of the details, as very little is actually written in the Bible about Mary and Joseph, but I loved that the author really got me to think of them as real people who faced real life situations.
Mary was a very young mother and an unexplained pregnancy would have really made people wonder.
Despite the challenges they faced Mary and Joseph were the perfect parents to raise Jesus.
I started this before Christmas and am just now getting around to finishing it.
(Crazy busy holiday!) I tend to rate books according to others I've read in that genre.
So compare this to several of the dystopian novels I've read lately, and I probably would have rated this a 3.
But compared to the other biblical novels I've read (namely Orson Scott Card), I think this book is right up there.
I enjoy having the Bible or history come alive, and I thought the author did a great job with the story.
So interesting and a great Christmas read.
I last read this book thirty years ago and remembered very little. I am surprised to find both how compelling the book remains and how terribly romantic it is. But, thinking back, quite a bit of the 1970s-era popular fiction was very romantic. This imagined courtship narrative of Mary and Joseph is personal and vibrant. What appealed to me most was the historic detail--similar to the historical fiction of Anya Seton, with very strong characters and more narrative and setting than dogma. Although this was written before the genre of Christian fiction developed, it fits in nicely.
I really enjoyed this book.
In reading it you learn a lot about the customs of that time.
Even though the story is this authors interpretation of the birth of Christ and the events leading up to it, it gives the reader a greater knowledge and understanding of the miracle of Christ's birth.
To quote the book, "Somehow I can't think of our son as a king," Joseph said.
"At least not a king who will mount a throne one day and rule the world.
But rather as a king who will somehow change men's hearts." A must read for all.
I really liked the way this author wrote about the period when Mary was chosen to be impregnated with the Christ child. The disbelief from her parents when she told them and then the struggle that Joseph went through knowing that his beloved was with child and he had not "been with" her yet. The tradition back then in regards to a situation like this was very in humane. I loved to read how this may have all unfolded with the virgin Mary. great book!
I first heard of this book on a nightime radio program. They were reading an excerpt from it and I was intrigued. I immediately went to the library and checked it out. I loved it. The story of Joseph and Mary told in a fictional way that was well researched by the author so that while reading it you have moments where you say to yourself, it could have been just like that. I highly recommend this book.
I loved this book, especially reading it during the Christmas season. At first I was unsure if I was going to like it, as I didn't want it to change the way I already envisioned the Christmas Story. But I feel in love with the characters and reading about what might have happened deepened my feelings about each important person in this most glorious birth. I want to read it again in December and perhaps make it one of my traditions. Thank you, Corinne, for recommending it for our Bookclub.
A fictional story of Mary and Joseph with a Biblical prespective. The story is of how God may have come to choose these two unlikely individuals to be the parents of the coming Messiah, His son. A story of love, faith, and acceptance despite the judgments of the world. If you ever wonder just how Joseph may have felt since the Bible does not give you his account this book with give you a lot to think about.
Excellent read for Christmas. The author has created a believable family and backstory for Mary, given context for those few beloved Bible verses. The characters are diverse and human and really made me wonder how I would have reacted to the entire, miraculous situation. The love story is strong and sweet and entirely good for a teenager to read and imagine.
I liked this book a lot better as a 14-yr-old than I did as an adult...but I still found it a beautiful love story. I can't imagine the pain of being Joseph OR Mary - the decisions they had to make, and the follow-though which they must have supported each other through. Not as well-written as I remember, but I'm glad to have reread it.
Great story. Really brings the traditional story to life. So many times, while reading it, I thought "Aah. Well that makes sense!" Insight to the customs of the time period, how people lived, details of what happened in the temples, and more, gave me a greater understanding and an appreciation for all of the untold stories within the Christmas story. I highly recommend this book!
This is the love story of Mary and Joseph and I REALLY enjoyed reading it at Christmastime! Mary and Joseph seem like real people to me now: they had fears, faults, and hormones, and they were also brave and full of faith. I never really thought about before how much they each sacrificed to be Christ's earthly parents. I'm sure I will be reading this again during future Christmas seasons.
I thought this would be really nice to read, what with it being Christmastime and all, and I've had a secondhand copy kicking around since high school, but it reads like fanfiction about Joseph and Mary. And that's just ... creepy.
