https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7912007-full-dark-no-stars
King points out that sometimes we’re the ones who invite that darkness in.In 1922, a Depression-era farmer in the Midwest just wants to work with his son and read books in the evening, but his wife wants to sell some land her father left her to a hog factory and use the money to move to the city.
Since he’s got a lot of resentment and grudges against his best friend Tom and his perfect life, Streeter decides that his old buddy deserves some misfortune.The question in A Good Marriage is how well do you know your spouse?
رجلا كنت ام امراة..كهلا كنت ام صبيا..ظالما كنت ام مظلوما..ثريا كنت ام فقير..شقيا كنت ام سعيدفي لحظة ما...في يوم.ما ستجد نفسك.
.تخطط..تقرر..وتقتل!!!نعم تقتل ..هكذا و ببساطة ..قد تطول خطتك او تقصر..و لكنك تعلم انك ستفعلها ..طالما زارك شيطان القتل و وسوس لك ..مرةاقنعني كينج بعبقرية لا تصدق..عبر أزمنة متعددة..أماكن متناقضة ..وعبر نماذج بشرية منتقاة ببراعة..ان القتل هو الغريزة المخفية لدينا جميعا..انت قد لا تجد أسبابا" كافية لقتل أحدهم..*بعد*اانا قد يكون لدي عشرات الأسباب ...ولكنها تلك اللحظة *الضلمة الكحل*تتملك منك وتغيرك..للأبد..
بلغة سهلة واسلوب اسر..تستحق كل لحظة من وقتك..واعتقد انها توجد مترجمة على موقع بجوجل anyone can kill...the king proofed it ...and convinced me..not once or twice..but 4 times..he did not loose his edge not by age or illneas > he is and still and..
king
4.5 Stars. Very Dark and "Wonderfully Gruesome" collection. Was happy to have found this gem when cleaning and reorganizing one of my too-many to-read bookshelves here at home, and even though I find I've already read each and every one...SHEESH...I actually didn't remember the ending on a couple of them so all is well, and having a real KING book is hardly a hardship after all. 1922 - 5 Stars A marital disagreement to sell or not to sell...the farm, that is...turns deadly, but RATS!...Talk abou
Was happy to have found this gem when cleaning and reorganizing one of my too-many to-read bookshelves here at home, and even though I find I've already read each and every one...SHEESH...I actually didn't remember the ending on a couple of them so all is well, and having a real KING book is hardly a hardship after all.
We're back in Derry (oh no!) to consider a devilish proposition, and enjoy a wickedly horrid story.
A GOOD MARRIAGE - 5 Stars
Shocking, suspenseful and a deadly good short story depicting a BIG marital secret of the deadly kind.
He let her live...Wow, this was a powerful, dark, unsettling tale of rape and revenge.
But with deals of this kind, there's always a catch...This one kind of reminds me of The Monkey's Paw. For all the good luck the Streeter family has, shit rains down upon the man Streeter hates the most.A Good Marriage: Darcy Anderson thought she had a good marriage until she found something her husband hid in their garage...The point this story drives home is how little anyone really knows anyone else.
Chilling and very effective.Full Dark, No Stars isn't my favorite King book but it's chock full of Kingliness and is an excellent example of what sai King can do when he isn't allowed to write phonebook sized tomes.
Full Dark, Four Stars.  In Full Dark, No Stars, we get four dark tales filled with murder, revenge, terror, and death. That, my friend, is regular Monday morning at Stephen King's head anyway!  Novella #1 1922 To be honest, I picked up Full Dark, No Stars after watching the trailer for 1922 movie adaptation, and I am happy to say that the novella delivers. The story is set in Nebraska and the year is (that's right, you guessed it) 1922. We are introduced to Wilfred James, a farmer who loves his
You see, he is kind of person who loves the land he lives in, and he wants to start farming in Arlette's land too.I think you can see where this is going.What you will not see if you don't read this book is how good the narration is.
The story is narrated by James, and King did an excellent job fleshing out the characters and the incidents.
I loved the period drama King brought to the story.
If you did want more hair, Mr. Streeter, I’d be happy to sell you a hair extension.❞
It's just how the world is."Full Dark, No Stars is a collection of 4 novellas in which King explores the "dark side" to people, and how exactly would you react if placed in certain situations?
One of the best short stories (or novellas, whatever) that I've ever read from King.
I can honestly say I was sad to come to the end of this collection and I think I now have a new book to recommend to people who are looking to venture into the world of King.
Best of 2010 Hold up wait a minute King of fiction releases novellas, stop all reading! Bump up to the front of your to-read list! Essential reading right now! Beauty of Kindle is that i could start reading instantly on release date.King sums these stories in his afterward he says " I have tried my best in Full Dark, No Stars to record what people might do, and how they might behave, under certain dire circumstances. The people in these stories are not without hope, but they acknowledge that ev
Beauty of Kindle is that i could start reading instantly on release date.King sums these stories in his afterward he says " I have tried my best in Full Dark, No Stars to record what people might do, and how they might behave, under certain dire circumstances.
King's first novella is a treat of a story, a family who live on a farm with their fates in Kings hand to twist.
This was a gripping story, it made you think, do you really know what your partners up to?
Oh man, each story makes you forget about the other, they're all equally fascinating and terrifying ... From the farmer who convinced his son to kill his inconsiderate drunk ass mother, to the lawyer who made a deal with a devil out of spite and jealousy, to the brave author who went through hell and back and avenged herself in a rather bad-ass fashion , and finally to the housewife who made a shocking ,albeit a late discovery about her husband and responded Properly... King never disappoint !
you also wonder why king feels the need to end each story on the perfect note.
yeah, the story might end a bit on-the-nose...
a nice bit of literary punkrockery with the novel twist of there not being a twist.
as brutal a story as any i've read simply because king plays it straight -- pretty sure i've never read one of these that didn't turn all that faustian crap back on the protagonist.
having only read 2 king novels (pet sematary & under the dome) and a bunch of short stories and novellas, i'm thinking the short form might play more to his strengths...
Full Dark, No Stars is a collection of short stories each one in my opinion darker than the last.
In my humble opinion no author does the short story collection better than Stephen King and this collection is just further proof of that.
In 1922 we meet a man who suffers some major consequences after the untimely death of his wife.
Full Dark, No Stars was very dark and at times I felt very unsettled reading it but if you like Stephen King and aren't afraid of letting a little darkness in I suggest you consider picking this one up.
You need about four of them to make a standard-sized book.It has been almost 30 years since Stephen King's first set of four novellas, Different Seasons, four stories written in the golden dawn of his career.
They were sharp, smart, dark stories of a perfect length to film – longer than the short stories King had written for men's magazines early in his career, shorter than the blockbuster novels he had started to carve out, following the success of Carrie (which was itself a novella, padded out to novel-length with commentary on the events of the book).
I finished!Full Dark, No Stars. I always liked that title. It’s a subtle warning for what lies ahead within these four novellas, but I didn’t realize how accurate it was, until I read them all. Let me add a warning you before you decide to read them: Not for the faint of heart.  Big Driver Tess is a mystery writer, and like writers do, she attends a few speaking engagements throughout the year. Get close to her fans, talk about her latest book, and sign some autographs. She only has a couple of
It’s a subtle warning for what lies ahead within these four novellas, but I didn’t realize how accurate it was, until I read them all.
Like King says in the afterword, “the people in these stories are not without hope.”
She knows how much I like Stephen King:“Oh gosh, I watched that movie 1922 on Netflix last night!”, she says.
“Bloody?” (me knowing full well that it probably was that **snicker-snicker**, but at this point I had not read the novella, or watched the movie).”O-M-G!”, mom said.
If the movie is anything like the book, then egad.
But this story follows her in how she handles this life-changing situation.
But I felt left wanting like the story wasn't finished.
A Good Marriage - This story was about a woman named Darcy Anderson, who has a pretty charmed life....the good husband and 2 beautiful children.
This story follows Darcy's discovery and how she handles the nightmare that her life becomes.
Now I don't want to say too much about this little treasure, but it's the story of a man, who is under a lot of stress due to work, recurring nightmares that he can't explain and a sick wife.
I think my posture is still suffering from my slack-jawed slouch as King pulled me through the story of a writer of cozy mysteries, and her trip back from a speaking engagement.After showing us his softer side over the past few years, our Stephen shows he still has dark things in the tank.
I was again hauled through this story mercilessly.Afterword: Probably the most terrifying part of this novel for me was learning that King still goes for his 4-5 mile walks along a road (he was hit by a van in 1999, for those of you who don't know), and that his favorite snack is a candybar and a soda.Firstly, if you ever read this, Steve, please stay off the roads.
4.5This was a great collection by King; 2 short stories and two stories that are actually novellas.
My favorite of the bunch is 'A Good Marriage'.
King does a great job establishing the feel of the relationship, given from the POV of the wife, and then leading us to her discovery that changes everything.
This was such an eerie moment because of its possibility in real life.
I'm sure it has actually happened in one way or another.
What would go through your mind at that moment?
Great stuff by the King.
It’s safe to say that, by today’s standards, Stephen King’s novellas are actually novels.
When you have publishers considering 35,000 words “novel length”, it makes you wonder what the actual difference is between a novel and a novella and whether or not the distinction will make a lot of difference in the coming years.
Buddy of mine, Gregor Xane, thinks novellas suit horror just fine, that they are the perfect length to bring on the scares and then GTFO of Dodge.
They normally feel like novels twice their length.
I can name numerous bad novels and short stories of his, but I can’t think of a single novella from him that I’ve disliked.
So, Stephen......this grandma is ready for all the stuff you've churned out while I wasn't looking.I decided to start with a book of short stories.
Definitely classic demented and disturbing King.Big Driver: Tess writes cozy mysteries and puts money away for retirement with public appearances and book signings.
Classic King.Fair Extension: Dave Streeter is living on borrowed time.
And while I know that a multi-millionaire ridiculously famous author does not really care about the opinion of one long-time reader.....I will say that this story collection has reawakened my love for his writing.
Different Seasons was the reflection of life and its passing years, Full Dark, No Stars dwelves deep into the chambers of the human heart, mind and soul and looks in the corners forgotten or deliberately locked.
Different Seasons reflected the seasons of the year and the moods that came with them; here the darkness is unrelenting throughout the whole volume.
How far would you go to save what you think is the most important thing in your life?1922I believe that there is another man inside of every man, a stranger...This is the opening story, and in my opinion the best of the whole volume.
It both fascinates me and humbles me, because I can't see life in the way that King apparently does.
In the end, I couldn't help but feel like he definitely didn't deserve his punishment.I like how ambiguous the story is as to the rats...
(hide spoiler)] I find it interesting how King comes back to rats time and again in his work.
But somehow King changes the way 'life changing' is defined.
I LOVED the way that Tess voiced everything around her and gave things their own personality.
I like it when King ends his short stories this way, and lets us follow it out to our own conclusions.
Main lesson: Don't get married.
I love short stories, so this felt like a good place to start (also recommended by a friend).1922 - 4 stars - though I was told this was the worst of the collection, I have to say it left the largest impression on me.
But overall I enjoyed the story, am now terrified of rats, and loved the ending.
I thought the idea of the story was neat and unique and found myself going "omg what if this is real?" But the story left me kind of disappointed it wasn't more fleshed out.
"This was the Darker Life, where every truth was written backward."Full Dark No Stars is a book of 4 novellas - 1922, Big Driver, Fair Extension, and A Good Marriage.
It hurt to read Big Driver, and it's one that will stick in the back of my head.Fair Extension was after that.
My favorite was the last one - A Good Marriage.
I wish that there would have been a story between this one and Fair Extension because they were both about a marriage and had some similarities in the beginning, but they wound up being quite different.
Overall, this was a good collection.
There are no happy endings here, but instead some fascinating, page-turning stories that will linger with you long after you're done reading.
As with all King stories, there's a supernatural element to things as Wilfred tries to come to terms with the consequences of his actions.
"Big Driver" is a revenge story but one with a dark, dark turn.
"Fair Extension" channels the spirit of Matheson's "The Box" with the added twist of instead of bad things happening to someone you don't know, they happen to someone you do.
Me encantó.
No he leído tanto de S.
King como para decir que es mejor o peor que sus otras obras, pero si hay que reconocer algo es que le va muy bien con los cuentos y relatos cortos: justos, precisos y tan ágiles que es casi imposible que en algún momento pierdas el interés (como sí me ha pasado con algunos de sus otros libros más extensos).La línea argumental de al menos tres de las historias, se basa en el “y si no hubiera…” de los personajes principales, dejando plasmado cómo a través de pequeñas decisiones y circunstancias se puede llegar a situaciones y experiencias aterradoras, transformando, a su vez, toda la estructura de valores y convicciones de una persona supuestamente normal.
Es en ese momento, al perder ese pilar de creencias e internarse en el lado más sombrío de la personalidad, es que es muy fácil ver todo oscuro, sin estrellas…
I see why this collection is titled, "Full Dark, No Stars." This is a collection of four short stories or novellas, or five if you have the bonus story 'Under the Weather.' I don't want to give anything away for those who haven't read it, but I will say these stories are dark.
Digressing..1922 really shows the evil people are capable of, but at the same time, you almost feel bad for Wilf for his situation.
But, King again, shows women are capable of overcoming and seeking revenge, and again, how evil people, in this story, a family can be.
With most of King's more recent works, I've found that they just don't have the same spark that his older novels like Pet Sematary and The Shining have. But Full Dark, No Stars is definitely an exception. Filled with all kinds of creative, frightening stories that range from horror to crime thriller, this collection features different stories for different eras, and they all capture something important and something valuable.
To be finished any year now, providing the man stops outputting new ones in the pace he normally does (not that I would want him to).If the last one, Just After Sunset, was surprisingly good (don't ask why I have low expectations on the newer books, I really can't say why), this was surprisingly great!
While the last one was a horror short story collection in the vein of Graveyard Shift or Skeleton Crew, this is very much sharing properties and feel of Different Seasons; 4 longer short stories which are, while horrible, perhaps not the kind that comes to mind when talking about 'horror stories'.
1922: Can't help myself associating with Joyce Carol Oates (like I did in my update) when reading this story.
1922: El cuento que más me gustó de esta novela.
Es muy fuerte y en él King explora las profundidades del corazón humano y de cuánto somos capaces por esconder un secreto y lo mucho que éste nos contamina y nos perturba dentro nuestro.
Es muy atrayente y es de esa clase de relatos que los disfrutás con pletórica atención.Un Buen Matrimonio: Otro cuento que trata sobre los secretos que se encuentran dentro nuestro, pudriéndose y atormentándonos.
En Un Buen Matrimonio el autor nos narra que a veces no conocemos tan bien a nuestros seres más queridos...
King takes on these questions here in three novellas and one short-ish story.
One day she takes a shortcut on the way home from a speaking engagement.
She meets a big bad man and winds up in a culvert, left for dead.
But Streeter has to choose who that someone else will be.
When Darcy discovers his secret, she sees to it that he's punished in a very special way.
In the process, she learns a thing or two about her own darkest fathoms.1922 is the first story, and it's the reason I cannot give the book four stars.
And Full Dark delivers all of this..Each story in the collection concerns principally human acts of evil, darkness, and just plain bad decisions.
A bad decision coming back to haunt you.
A discovery that leads you to realise your other half is not at all who you thought they were....King does not hold back on the brutality in these stories, especially in Big Driver.
Along with Big Driver, my other favourite was A Good Marriage, as I'm a sucker for a female protagonist and I found myself more engrossed in these stories than the other two.
