https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7096.The_Coming_Fury
Some fun facts: John Bell's Constitutional Union party (a neutral 4th party, after the Republicans & a split Democratic Party) was a very serious contender and he was actually nominated before either Democratic candidate, neither Stephen Douglas nor Abraham Lincoln were actually present at the convention at which they were nominated president, Jefferson Davis was very nearly the Confederacy's top general rather than its president, and the Civil War could have started at Fort Pickens or in Texas (with Robert E Lee on the Union side!) before Fort Sumter finally happened.Most interesting of all though was how HUGE slavery was.
Interestingly, for whatever reasons, I never got around to reading The Coming Fury, Catton’s history of the year preceding the Civil War. It is a monumental book, that on book jacket surface, with its attention to day to day and week to week minutiae between North and South, seems to lack the compelling endgame of Appomattox.
Does it presage that, hereafter, that star after star will shoot from the galaxy of the Republic, and the American Union become a fragment, and a parcel of sectional republics?”Merrick is not mentioned again, but his speech, his little moment in history, is a fine example of Catton’s discerning eye and his overall grasp of his topic.
I tracked it down at my favorite used book store last summer and brought home the whole trilogy.The first big, beefy hardcover book is almost entirely devoted to the events that led up to the American Civil War. Those of us living in the US are so accustomed to a 2-party system that it is hard to wrap one's head around the fact that there were multiple parties campaigning in various regions around the USA during this exceptional period, when the cotton aristocracy that had previously ruled the US without contest from anyone else ran smack up against the Industrial Revolution and the drums of history marching forward to a place it really didn't want to go.One thing I had not realized before reading this work was that not only did the majority of Caucasian southerners not own slaves, but the majority of most states did not even favor continuing the plantation economy.
This one is about the complex legal issues that led to the Civil War and to the most momentous decision in U.
S. history: how should President Lincoln respond to the secessions and the seizures of federal property in the South?
If Lincoln had known the consequences, would he have made the same decision?
Was secession a Constitutional right, as the Confederates claimed?
If not, why did Lincoln recognize West Virginia’s right to secede from Virginia?
When federals violated the Fugitive Slave Law, did that constitute recognition that the South was an independent country?
It was a complicated war by the legal standards of the time.
This volume details the build-up of tensions during 1860 and early 1861 that finally exploded into the Civil War in April.
It also covers the early months of the war through the Battle of Bull Run in July of '61.
The opening scene tells the story of the contentious atmosphere of the Democratic National Convention in Charleston in April of 1860 that ended up without a nominee.
It also gives a thorough account of the early military engagements, beginning with Ft Sumter and ending with the Battle of Bull Run. If you are interested in learning about the lead-up to the Civil War, I would recommend this volume.
America blundered into the Civil War. This massive bloodshed that disrupted the country had its roots in the earliest compromises of the Republic (when the Constitution's writers allowed slavery to placate South Carolina and Georgia, to keep them in the new country), but at the same time, 1860 represented the most salient failure of American political institutions in our history.
Bruce Catton starts with the Democratic Convention in 1860 in Charleston, SC and end the the First Battle of Bull Run. It is interesting to note that the division of the Democratic party occurred from the beginning of the campaign season.
The States Rights issue comes in a few months later when the border states start choosing sides.
It is interesting that the issue that the border states took up was the call to arms of troops.
Drafting men into the army has been a controversial issue in American Politics for a very long time.
Catton is very fair to Lincoln and Seward in this book.
Dare one say that this treasured history of events leading to the Civil War now seems...well...dated? Catton taught most of us "of an age" about the great American catastrophe of the 19th Century and was a fine teacher, indeed. Still, compared with the work of Shelby Foote which has a more modern tone, Catton's work does seem a bit cliched and oddly worded. That tiny whine noted, Catton remains as superb a historian as he seemed so many decades ago. A fine piece of scholarship neatly presented.
One of the all-time classics of Civil War history! Catton was a master of the language and wrote with an eloquence not often found in such texts. This is the first of his trilogy in the Centennial History, and I cannot remember how many times I've read it since it was published in 1961. Each time, however, it's fresh and like being introduced to the 1860s all over again. He begins with the campaign of 1860 and ends this first volume with the tragicomic debacle of First Manassas/Bull Run, bringing to life the people and the era.
I really did not know much of the lead up to the Civil War. I knew most of it had to do with the slavery issue but Catton does a good job explaining some of the other tensions and how and where things had begun to come to a head. I find it interesting that all three places I have lived (Pensacola, FL; Charleston, SC; and Mobile, AL) had either key forts or key locations to hold in the Civil War.
The Coming Fury is an excellent book detailing the tragic onset of the Civil War. The book begins with the 186o Democratic convention in South Carolina, which eventually split off into a Southern and Northern Democratic camp and all but ensured Abraham Lincoln's election and the secession of the South.
Catton recounts his train trip from Illinois to Washington for his inauguration in early 1861, during which Lincoln gave numerous off-the-cuff speeches downplaying the potential for war and seeming to dismiss any notion that the secession of South Carolina and the tough talk from other Southern states about forming their own country was anything more than a bluff.
We are taught in school that "the South seceded" in December 1860, that Fort Sumter was fired upon the following April and that the first major battle happened in July.
The last amazing fact I learned from this book was about the formation of West Virginia and General McClellan's early successes in that campaign, before his caricatured ineptitude on the peninsula.Having never read extensively about it, I consider myself representative of the public conception of what the Civil War was all about, and the basic sequence of events we're all taught in school.
While I'm still no expert, I feel I know so much more about the subject now that I've read this book.
In each soldier’s heart the nation was very small and intimate…big enough to be worth dying for, but familiar enough to be loved personally.—Bruce Catton, The Coming FuryThe first volume of Bruce Catton’s U.S. Civil War centennial trilogy, covering the period from the Democratic National Convention in April 1860 to the First Battle of Bull Run in July 1861, is required reading for any student of history seeking a better understanding of the events that immediately preceded the outbreak of hostilities between the states.
What Catton also makes clear in this first volume is that the South had already lost the war from the outset.
Written in early 60's so sometimes heavy reading, and having an old copy, the font was small.
Cool to hear perspective of dr catton and views/research of late 50's/ early 60's.
Book ends at first major battle- first manassas/ bull run.
A confederate victory that taught the north that this wasn't gonna be a one day drop the plow kick confederate ass then return.
Too many men had supposed that the war war would be won by the ninety day recruit.
In the dust and smoke around manassas an innocent era had come to an end.
Lest we Forget..."The American South was fated to try to stay just as it was, in a time when everything men lived by was changing from top to bottom...
People who liked things as they had been found the change abhorrent.
Off all the groups whose migration to America had caused strain, the largest of all and whose presence seemed to be the most disturbing (to the "old Americans") was one racially homogenous block, which to men of that day, seemed to be entirely beyond assimilation - the negro.
Their mere presence frightened "old" Americans."
He was willing to follow laws, upheld by the Supreme Court, that forced northern states to return runaway slaves when found above that line.
A more mythologized version of Lincoln would be that he had designs to "subjugate" the south, push for abolishing slavery, and racial equality.
Even after the war started they demanded that the Federal constitution be followed in regards to their treatment from the north (mostly in retrieval of slaves and blockades of the coast).
How could states declare independence and then have the gall to demand equal treatment under the constitution they just dismantled?
To understand America and its modern political environment, I think one has to understand the revolution and civil war. This is the first book of trilogy. It gives a vivid account of escalations of the national tension on slavery and later turned to union problems. It is unprepared and unforeseen by everyone. Yet it moved to the direction of unavoidable. The coming fury. This is a history book. But the author’s writing style and language used is fantastic.
I think I'd have enjoyed this more three years ago when we went to Gettysburg. The research is plentiful, the tone is objective and the material is concisely presented. I just couldn't find myself being swept away with reading a tome about the causes of the civil war.
Why haven't I read this before. The best narrative of the background and initial steps into the American Civil War
This was an unforgettable book, a meticulous recounting of the events and decisions that led to the Civil War
- they had no true 'long-term plans' that went past one or two years of fighting].[4] Neither side utilized all of the mechanisms in civil government to avoid fighting.[5] The South had an unrealistic view of how life should be in the United States; they demanded that the Federal government and new states cater to Southern wishes/desires yet wanted to refuse to allow new states to decide their own destinies.[6] The Civil War nearly started in Texas due to the actions of Texans in taking control of Federal forts and property and taking Federal soldiers captive.
Charming, level-headed presentation of the lead-up to the war. Not quite as resonant as Shelby Foote's seminal books, but maybe a little more buoyant and readable, certainly as informative, with subtle textures of humor and irreverence. Highly recommended.
I liked how it was a broad but specific enough in the beginning of the Civil War. I like how it started off with James Buchanan's administration, I know truly nothing of his years in office or his stance on the beginning of the unrest and the book was a good beginners knowledge of Buchanan.
In my opinion the history of Kentucky during the before and during the Civil War is most interesting out of the state.
This book has kick started my civil war fever once again....

So then the focus narrowed to the White House and the national Capitol; what was said and done there might still determine whether the crisis could be solved or must be brought to the point of explosion."Catton beautifully describes the process by which the power to start the war got steadily pushed down the chain of command over the months between the election and the Fort Sumter.At the end of the chapter, describing Major Anderson's situation, he notes that "...the narrowing-down process had reached its limit at last.
"The Coming Fury" is book one in a series of three written for the centennial of the Civil War. It and its companion volumes, "The Terrible Swift Sword" and "Never Call Retreat" clearly served as source material for much of the popular literature and media produced about the Civil War since.
The first volume provides a narrative of the events leading up to Fort Sumter, including the democratic and republican conventions, Lincoln's election and the secession of the Confederate states.
Catton's narrative style is riveting, more akin to a novel than a history.
READ THIS SERIES!
His literary prose is well treated to the subject, but not without humor and all the while very capable of telling the story of the great coming calamity.
Interesting that this book stops at the end of First Bull Run and leaves the other two books in the trilogy to chart the entire remaining 4 years of the war.
While I knew certain pieces of infamous events such as Fort Sumter, the Baltimore riots, and Bull Run, there were plenty of momentous events I found myself learning for the first time.
The Civil War is a hard subject to botch when it comes to writing, but Bruce Catton is clearly one of the masters.
4.5 stars, if I could give half-stars.Okay, so I have to admit: I never liked history very much.
But last year a friend of mine recommended the Yale Open Course class on the Civil War taught by David Blight.
Blight gives a shout-out to Catton in one of the lectures, and that's what led me to The Coming Fury, the first in a three-volume set that commemorated the centennial of the Civil War.Catton was a journalist and not a historian, so he doesn't get too bogged down with dates and facts.
I like his narrative approach.
The narrative style that he employs in this book brings to life the significant people and events in the 16 months from the political party conventions in April of 1860 (when Abraham Lincoln became the nominee of the Republican Party) through the first real battle of the Civil War, Bull Run/Manassas, in July of 1861.
Through his extensive research, using hundreds of contemporary accounts both personal and academic, Catton brings the reader into the rooms, the fort, and the battlefield where the events of those months that shaped the course of the United States occurred.
Read it if you're interested in who Jefferson Davis and Abraham Lincoln were as people; how the Southern Democrats of 1860 sabotaged their own party to ensure they would lose the election; how the decision to start a bloody Civil War was the result of a buck passed down to the point where the final call was made by a local Charleston artillery commander; how Lincoln committed wholly unconstitutional (and probably impeachable) acts to defend Washington; or even how the rate of economic return on investing in slaves in the Deep South vs.
