https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18668485-the-initiate
Old review: stop rating before readingEDIT: You may now start rating as it has been published!
I'm not interested in reading anything written by Roth again. Allegiant had given me my dose of disappointment and tears.
"I may have chosen Dauntless as a haven, but I’m not just surviving here, I’m excelling.
I stare at Eric’s blood on my knuckles and smile." We get to know the full story behind the Four - Eric feud, and it goes far deeper than I had imagined.Where Tris never really felt or acted like someone from abnegation, Four truly struggles with the changes and how to simply interact with others.
You also get more insight in some of the characters that appear in the Divergent series, like Amar, Zeke and Shauna.
I liked this short-story a lot, mostly because of Fours internal struggle and character building!
I am Dauntless."
This book is a great book. It's cool that they have four's POV and his life story. Also in the book it Talks about how four became a dauntless and why he is. It's just good to read about how he felt when he was divergent and how he felt when he meet tris. It's also another great book to add to the divergent if you really like it.
I really enjoyed this part of the book, Four by Veronica Roth.
I do wish there was more development in the extra characters in the story.
I wish I knew their histories and backgrounds more, but I understand that Four was an introvert and didn't interact with them much, so it makes since that he wouldn't know this information about them.
Also, in Divergent some people did not make the cut, some were hurt outside of the designed fights, some left to become factionless, etc.
and in this book none of that happened.
I wish a little bit of this would have happened just to keep it even more interesting.
In 'The initiate' we get into the depths of how Four braves his initiation, how he gets through the three stages- the physical training( fights and all), fear simulation and finally the fear landscape.
Four is working hard all day and night to fit in the dauntless and is even helping Shauna( friend) with fighting lessons.
When he beomes aware that he's a Divergent( Divergents are aware that they're only in a simulation and it's not real when they're injected with the serum) ,he tries to conceal it, otherwise Jeanine might find out.
Finally Four braves the initiaton and gets ranked first.
Do yourself a favour and don't buy this ebook if you don't want to waste your money.As of 10th September it will cost you £1.99 for this ebook but if you wait until January you can get this and 4 other short stories (all priced at £1.99 each when purchased separately) in one print bind up that is currently available to pre-order for just £4.99 (versus the £9.95 it would cost you for the 5 ebooks!!!)Four: A Divergent Story Collection contains all of the following short stories:1.
The Transfer: A Divergent Story2.
The Initiate: A Divergent Story3.
The Son: A Divergent Story4.
The Traitor: A Divergent Story5.
“How to Be Dauntless: An Introductory Course,” she says. “Lesson one: It’s okay to hug your friends here." I really liked this one.It was a bit longer than the previous short story and we get to read about Four's initiation and how he handled it.Amar is such a cool character,I really liked him and the fact that he really cared about Four.And...Four gets his first tattoo!
I JUST LOVE MY FOURRRRRRR!!!
Can't get enough of Four, especially when I picture him as Theo James.
APRIL 16, 2014 REVIEW: I have mixed feelings about this. Mainly because of the author. Yeah, she completely ruined me. The ending of Allegiant <<<<<<< Cleaning 10000 year old outhouses. Seriously though. But there will be none of the characters that died in the Divergent trilogy (hopefully!) so i think i may okay but seriously: Veronica Roth<<<<<<<<< Justin BieberJULY 10, 2014 REVIEW:
«The Abnegation say, in hushed voices that the problem with many Erudite is their selfishness, but I think it is their arrogance, the pride they take in knowing things that others do not.»  I loved that I got an insight on some characters we don’t really get to know well in the Divergent trilogy, like Amar, Zeke and Shauna - however, I was expecting more.Four was fully committed to his initiation - so immersed in it that he didn’t really do anything else.  «“See, I spend a lot of time trying t
I loved that I got an insight on some characters we don’t really get to know well in the Divergent trilogy, like Amar, Zeke and Shauna - however, I was expecting more.Four was fully committed to his initiation - so immersed in it that he didn’t really do anything else.
(…) Joining a faction is about more than getting through initiation, you know,” Amar says.»
“You know, I’m getting kind of bored of them, you might try to show me something new.”“I’ll work on it,” I say.»
«It feels strange, to know that he must have been trying to protect me.
Pero Amar, que también era un Divergente, es asesinado por los Eruditos (por miembros de Jeanine) mientras buscan a rebeldes divergentes.Conocemos la historia completa de la disputa entre Cuatro y Eric, y va mucho más allá de lo que había imaginado.También obtienes más información sobre algunos de los personajes que aparecen en la serie Divergente, como Amar, Zeke y Shauna.
Lo único que quería Cuatro era sobrevivir en el intrépido complejo, pero se dio cuenta de que estaba sobresaliendo.Me gustó mucho esta historia corta, ¡principalmente por la lucha interna de Cuatro y la construcción del personaje!
The second installment in the Four quartet of novellas was a decent read. However I did find my mind wandering at times, it just didn't hold my attention as well as "The Transfer". It's been a while since I have read the Divergent trilogy and I might have enjoyed this story more if I remembered all the characters from before. 3/5
The Initiate4 Star - Four is learning to be himself, in a world that is not wanting to accept him.This short has Four training, making friends, making enemies and standing out as the toughest sob there is.I enjoyed this short because of the struggle Four deals with in learning how to interact with others, it is kind of sad, but has a real world understanding of what happens with the struggle one has when trying to venture into interactions with others, when the only previous relationship was to that of a an abusive person.Four pushes himself to the point he must walk away at one point, as he is really finding his own boundaries and limits in this one.Written for fans of Four, he makes friends and enemies here."His eyes are glassy and unfocused.
It occurs to me that I did that, it was me, and fear creeps back in, a different kind of fear this time.
Aw. Poor Amar.
I like Tris's perspective more
Excellent novella. If you're a Four fan. You'll want to read each of these.
It was good :)
If I thought The Transfer was amazing, it was nothing compared to this one! In this short story, we explore Four's life as a Dauntless initiate. Of how he was in the beginning, how he changed, how he got his first tattoo, how he became Dauntless in the true sense of the word.  "Abnegation-born, Abnegation result, in a Dauntless haven." Here, we also explore the 'masochist' side of our lovely Four.  "...I don't mind the pain.I relish it." And that climax! Truly sent a chill down my spine! To know
If I thought The Transfer was amazing, it was nothing compared to this one!
In this short story, we explore Four's life as a Dauntless initiate.
Of how he was in the beginning, how he changed, how he got his first tattoo, how he became Dauntless in the true sense of the word.
"Abnegation-born, Abnegation result, in a Dauntless haven."
Here, we also explore the 'masochist' side of our lovely Four.
To know what it was, and more aspects of Four's personality, read the book and find out!
~Special thanks to Mish for giving me a copy of the book!
U ovoj kratkoj priči Divergent serijala doznajemo kako se Four uklopio u svoju novoizabranu frakciju i vidimo promjenu koju je prošao od Ukočenog do Neustrašivog. Ova priča govori o promjeni, napuštanju starih strahova i uklapanju u novu sredinu, kao i mogućnosti da sami stvorimo svoju budućnost. Meni se svidjela :)
Ew povero Amar. Ma devo dire che per il resto di questo libro non mi è importato molto. Pensavo la Roth avrebbe approfondito di più Four con questi "libri" su di lui, invece mi sembra che per ora Four sia molto più piatto di come era nei libri della saga di Divergent.
I didn't know that Four's perspective would be so poetic. I'm falling for him all over again :3getting to know him better, all his fears, how he got his first tattoo and how his initiation went. great job V. Roth <3
Awesome to read about Tobias's beginnings into dauntless!
.
we get more Tobias in July.Here is her blog post which can be found at www.veronicarothbooks.blogspot.comBad News: the three remaining stories from Four's perspective that I've been working on, which were supposed to come out later this year/early next year, have been delayed until July 2014.
So there's more to read!-The price for the e-stories will not change, even though they're longer than anticipated.-The stories will be better in July than they would have been if they had come out this winter, because I'm going to work my butt off to make them that way!Which is what I'm off to do right now, actually.
'The Initiate' is the second short story of Veronica Roth's Divergent Collection book 'Four'   . It picks up right from the end of the first short story 'The Transfer'   ,which you can read my review of in my home page :), and plunges straight into the action of the Dauntless initiation process.'The Transfer' left me feeling a little numb and craving some much needed dramatic action so 'The Initiate' left me feeling  woo! I thoroughly enjoyed reading about Shauna and Zeke in the "early days" of
'The Initiate' is the second short story of Veronica Roth's Divergent Collection book 'Four' 
. It picks up right from the end of the first short story 'The Transfer' 
I thoroughly enjoyed reading about Shauna and Zeke in the "early days" of their relationship and the initiations e.g the fear landscape, the simulations, were exciting to read about.
I will be starting part 3 The Son of this collection soon so make sure you look out for that!Amy xx
This was an interesting look at the background of Dauntless. We also get a bit more detail into Four's path on his way to meeting Tris. We also begin to understand that he's realizing what role he plays in things to come. Sadly, it's all unnecessary information and while this is a short read, it's largely skippable.
