https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27512.The_Final_Days
Moment by moment, Bernstein and Woodward portray the taut, post-Watergate White House as Nixon, his family, his staff, and many members of Congress strained desperately to prevent his inevitable resignation.
This brilliant book reveals the ordeal of Nixon's fall from office -- one of the gravest crises in presidential history.
J Fred Buzhardt and Leonard Garment settled into their first-class seats on Eastern flight 177 from Wahington DC to Miami.
Garment had a list on a yellow legal pad - now twenty-two or twenty-three items.
I would say only that if some of my judgments were wrong, and some were wrong, they were wrong because really they were right, and I say that in the spirit of humility and of taking a firm stand against everything which isn’t in the best interests of this great nation of ours.To those who have stood with me during these past difficult months, to my family, my friends, to many others who joined in supporting my cause because they believed it was right, I will be eternally grateful for your support and will be visiting you in your various correctional facilities, of that you may be assured.And to those who have not felt able to give me your support, let me say I leave with no bitterness toward those who have opposed me, because all of us, in the final analysis, are wrong, even though some of us are right.I shall leave this office with bitterness and deep regret at and yet I believe that future historians will recognise Watergate and all it represents as one of my greatest achievements.Sometimes I have succeeded and sometimes I have failed, but always I have succeeded.
Instead, this book is based on the first-hand recollections of many people who had daily contact at high levels of the administration.Much of the time is spent focusing on Nixon's legal defense team and his Chief of Staff, General Alexander Haig.
Taking them at their word, that makes the events of this book all the more incredible: the delusional thinking of Nixon's daughter Julie and some of the staff members such as Ken Clawson – people who refused to accept that Nixon had done anything wrong; the professional rivalry and disdain between Nixon's lawyers Fred Buzhardt and James St. Clair; the machinations of Haig; and most of all, the tortured behavior of Nixon himself.
Woodward and Bernstein's quasi-sequel to All the President's Men, The Final Days, chronicles the last year of Nixon's presidency from the April 1973 departures of Bob Haldeman and John Ehrlichman through his own resignation.
The authors interview dozens of participants, providing a fast-paced insider account of Nixon's advisers first trying to contain the damage, slowly and reluctantly realizing that they've been dupe, and their belated, frantic efforts pushing their boss to accept the inevitable.
Unfortunately, this fascinating insider's take comes drenched in spurious gossip: Nixon's drinking and suicidal ramblings, Pat's frigidity, Kissinger's backstabbing, Ford's dithering, cabinet insubordination, Congressional bitchery - and the whole time, America is safely managed by a benevolent Alexander Haig.

This is at times a very detailed account of the trial and downfall of President Richard Nixon.
Nixon’s sequestration is supported in the pages of this book by Woodward and Bernstein.In many ways it was Nixon who paid the price for the lies of the Vietnam War. The Kennedy and Johnson administration did far worse in terms of lies and deceit than Nixon.
That put pettiness into the story.I did find Nixon’s support from his family – his wife, his two daughters and their husbands admirable.
As we reach the end of the book I came to respect, in some measure, Nixon as a human being.
Nixon's sons-in-law, like certain members of his staff, are convinced of the hopelessness of his defense relatively early in the book.It's also worth mentioning that Nixon, according to the sources who spoke to Woodward and Bernstein, was often drunk during this time.
At the same time, the book shows that a president can only convince the rest of the country to ignore evidence of their true character for so long.
House Judiciary Committee (HJC) & the Senate Select Committee each independently investigated the events of Watergate (the 6/17/72 break-in of Democratic Party HQ).
During this aforementioned 6 month time period, staff, members of Congress, son-in-laws and friends described Nixon in whole or in part as "a liar," "a madman," "nutty," "unstable," "unraveled." and in a "dream world." THE HJC handed down 3 articles of impeachment against Nixon, then if the House as a whole had a majority vote against Nixon, the Senate would possibly have a hearingto convict and remove Nixon from office.
A lengthy, highly intelligent and nuanced account (overly long, perhaps) of the legal and personal issues surrounding the final collapse and resignation of the Nixon Presidency. Marvelous portraits of the people involved, especially Kissinger, Haig, Buzhardt, St. Clair, Julie and David Eisenhower, and of Nixon himself. Cold-eyed and analytical, but also surprisingly sympathetic in part. Far better than the later Woodward books.
I read this one a while ago.
In many ways, this book is better than its predecessor: it's not focused on just Watergate, and it follows the politicians rather than the reporters (All the President's Men is largely the story of how Woodward and Bernstein did their reporting).Two very striking facts will always stay with me from this book.
First: it's eye-opening to read how much all of these people cared not just about themselves, but about what was right, appropriate, and legal.
You get a sense of how scandals really can be crippling; that's not just some media cliche.Anyway, I've mentioned that I'm a Watergate junkie, and this was an extension of that.
The American people no longer get faceless hacks like Warren Harding selected by the party behind closed doors.Richard Nixon was sane, but he had serious psychological problems.
It is only when people read the transcript of the tape where Nixon is heard admitting the cover-up and urging it on, that the man loses support.
Most frightening, and I clearly recall this from the time, is how some people will defend a man beyond all reason just because he holds an office.
The President of the United States is reduced to seeking the approval of his barber, alone with the man for a final haircut on his last day in office.
This is a follow up to their brilliant book All the President's Men, and takes up where that book ended.
Richard Nixon's White House is under siege, following the revelations of the Watergate scandal and the indictments of many of his top aides.
All of the key players in the drama are followed in great detail, from the President and his family, to White House staffers, members of Congress, and the Judiciary.
The profound shock of the scandal takes its toll on each.Richard Nixon truly was a secretive, paranoid, vindictive geek.
I would very much recommend this for anyone interested in the Watergate scandal and its aftermath.
The facts in tandem with the facts and fiction in the novelized version of Watergate I had just finished. Love reliving those heady days of smarmy Nixon's disgrace and fall.
From a historical perspective, one of the ten best books I've ever read. Fascinating.
'The Final Days: The Classic, Behind the Scenes Account of Richard Nixon's Dramatic Last Days in the White House' by Bob Woodward & Carl Bernstein is a political history classic and is one of the best books of its kind.
Not long after the resignation of Richard Nixon in August 1974, Woodward and Bernstein took a leave of absence from the Washington Post in order to begin work on the book.
The first carries on from where 'All the President's Men' leaves off, in particular from April 30, 1973, when John Dean, the White House counsel, was fired, and brings the narrative through developments of later in 1973 and then up to late July 1974.
This book had thrown light on the inner workings of the various organs of the US Govt touching the executive powers and privileges of the President vis-a-vis the powers of Congressional committees, Senate and US judiciary.
The strength of US democracy is that the most powerful man in the world is not that much powerful and is to be answerable to the various institutions of the democratic Govt.
Though, at times, the reader is wearied with too much details, the book is important as a historic record of an important event which shook the foundations of a great democracy.
A great of amount of research and hard work had gone into bringing this book.
I guess it seemed appropriate to read this at the moment?!
I like reading about the internal machinery of the White House and this is one of the definitive accounts, almost to a fault.
It's told entirely in narrative form from 100 days before through to Nixon's resignation as President.
I felt the missing component throughout the book was Nixon himself.
He seems absent, often lurking in the dusk during a late cruise aboard the Sequoia, like some Kurtz of the Potomac.
Perhaps he was indeed detached, missing, and drunk throughout these days but I felt there was something missing.
What a fascinating read.
I was 16 years old when President Nixon resigned.
Now, as an adult, reading this detailed a counting of Nixon's final months in office I am struck by the similarity between Nixon and Trump's personalities.
This account bvb thing was riveting to read.
The perpetual state of limbo in which Nixon's loyal staffers existed is hard to fathom.
The differentiation between the man and the office, as well as a President's sense of being a person who will be assessed by historians was quite powerful.
I also finish reading this book thinking that it seems next to impossible to be in politics and to maintain one's integrity.
An in-depth look at the last 10 months or so of Nixon's time in office.
Still an important and relevant read, though.
It probably would have been easier to follow if I'd read it closer to finishing All the President's Men, but I wasn't up for that.
(I got about halfway through All the President's Men last year before I realized it wasn't going to go all the way to The End and I'd have to read the "sequel.") At least there was a handy "cast of characters" list at the beginning.
Even though you know what is coming, the events on the inside provide a fascinating look inside the last year of the Nixon administration. The details even manage to invoke sympathy for some of the players I hadn't anticipated.
In a sense this book operates like a sequel to the wonderful "All the President's Men," and it showcases the chaos that the investigations of people like Woodward, Bernstein, and Special Prosecutor Archibald Cox brought into the Nixon White House.
Were Nixon's words on scratchy Oval Office tapes "orders" to break the law or mere speculations that any President engaged in?
Without Alexander Butterfield's revelation to the Senate Investigating Committee that the President recorded Oval Office discussions, Watergate would be remembered as little more than some odd coincidences and John Dean's, Nixon's former General Counsel's, strong denunciations of the administration's complicity.
While All The President's Men chronicled the two Washington Post reporters' search for the story behind the 1972 break-in at Democratic national headquarters, its sequel, The Final Days, focuses on the resulting implosion of the Richard Nixon administration during 1973-74.
It's undoubtedly a page-turner but the story is often agonising -- the tension and claustrophobia of the last few weeks of Nixon's presidency is palpable -- and the amount of detail can seem daunting, particularly in the first half of the book, which acts as a backgrounder before the day-by-day breakdown of events in the latter half.
Without these scenes, which include a drunk Nixon talking to portraits of past presidents, the book would lose much of its colour and therefore its humanity.
Truly remarkable book.
What makes this stand out even more is that over 40 years later, we have the ability to disengage and take into account Nixon's later years in their entirety, but this book put together in less than two years after the resignation.
Yet, even though events were still so raw, Woodward and Bernstein have managed to elicit some sympathy for a truly complex individual.
Nixon, for all his many, many faults, did achieve some great things and while I'm not into making predictions, I'm fairly sure he'll be treated much more kindly by history than the incumbent.
For this book, many, many of the figures involved in Watergate agreed to be interviewed anonymously in order to get their side of the story out.
I missed the details of the search as in the previous book, but this format showed off the absolutely crazy, amazing amount of depth and information they were able to obtain.The strength is also a weakness as I see many other people have commented that they didn't like the massive amount of details.
Truth and right were not the objectives of most figures in the story.
Nixon would tell his story several years later.That Bob Woodward hates Richard Nixon is undisputed.
As the 40th anniversary of the break in approached, the Washington Post ran a story headlined, “Nixon was worse than we thought!” over Bob Woodward’s byline.
Bob Woodward works hard to assure that Nixon is defined in just that way.Historian Stephen Ambrose sees Nixon much differently.
But Ambrose, like most Americans, has come to weigh Nixon’s achievements against Watergate and finds that there was much to be liked about Richard Nixon.
None of those things mean as much to Bob Woodward as his own aggrandizement.
Ambrose was a scholar.
I finally finished this book over the Christmas holidays.
Maybe it was because I knew how the story ended (Nixon resigning) that I dawdled so long in reading it.
So much so, that I wondered how Woodward and Bernstein would know about the inner thoughts of Nixon's Clean Up Crew.The book finally came alive when Henry Kissinger entered the story and the reader gets some juicy gossip about Nixon and Kissinger's working relationship.
I knew when I finished that I needed to also read the accounts by Haldeman, Erlichman and Dean to continuing getting a better picture of the situation.
Given how quickly this book was published after the Nixon presidency, it is remarkably well researched and detailed. The content is chilling: a president who was lying to his own lawyers and aides, contemplating suicide, and roaming the White House drinking and conversing with portraits of dead presidents. My only quibble with the book is that it is so focused on the internal workings of the West Wing and First Family that (reading this many decades later) it is hard to put the events in the context of national and world events.
Having lived through this time in Washington, DC it is still amazing to read of the actions of Nixon and others. They definitely define hubris. I listened to All the President's Men this summer and am so glad I followed it up with this.
That bastard should have gone to jail.
Seemed like a good time to read this.
