https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/318525.Red_Storm_Rising
If you like the books that he didn't write that have his name on them, you'll probably really like this book.Few people know that this book was written as part of a competition that clancy had with Stephen King, to see who could write the longest book in a week.
A nice touch: this book contains one word for every bullet that was fired in the vietnam war.Russians run out of oil, decides to attack NATO to get lots more, it doesn't work, and everyone forgets about it.
Things didn't improve when the Russians failed to break up NATO, World War III started, and I was searching my dictionary for things like "fighter" and "carrier".But 830 pages gives you a long time to learn, and within a few hundred pages, I was checking my dictionary less and enjoying the book more.
There were many characters, in keeping with the fact that the book was about a World War, but the main characters were all realistic people that I could feel for.
I blame the 1943 Lawrence O’Donnell science fiction short story CLASH BY NIGHT, which I read in Junior High, for my fetish.
Asimov made me want to read more science fiction; Lawrence made me want more Naval Action!RED STORM RISING presents a global non-nuclear war between the U.S. and Russia that involves our NATO allies.
There is also a cute love story that develops here.
There is some great submarine action here.
Many readers think Clancy novels are technical over-kill, but what he does in RED STORM RISING works for me.
Awful, boring overlong story of war and rape. The only good portion of this novel aside from the victim finding love is the end which should have ocurred one third of the way through this travesty. 2 of 10 stars
I read it once when I was too young to understand many key themes so it was an action thriller at the time.
During my second read through my perspective changed, gone was the line between clearly good and clearly evil.
Any and all luck was on their side and despite the desperation of the situation, America is always going to win.
I'm not disputing the outcome, I would have just rather read about actual struggles instead of random secret technologies being pulled out of the sky at just the right moments.
In the end the final message I got from this was "America fuck yeah!" and "democracy hurr"
I've never been in the intelligence business or the armed forces, but maybe those folks derive greater pleasure out of what I assume is his accurate portrayal of those communities.I rated this book three stars because at the end of the day this is pretty much a run-of-the-mill techno war thriller, and is very typical of that genre.
Coupled with Clancy's overly-simplistic or deliberately misleading portrayal of Soviet characters and life in the U.S.S.R. I can't say as this is a book worth raving about.
Still, it is an interesting story particularly if you're nostalgic for the Cold War days or interested in vintage intelligence and military trivia.
In Sweden (at least) this one rode high on the success of the first few Ryan books. The characters of this one is even more one-dimensional and the whole story has a feeling of taking place on a higher level than personal most of the time. Unavoidable due to the scale of things, I guess. Nevertheless, it is quite suspenseful and if you're going in with an understanding of what you are about to read, it's captivating and readable.
Dry narration of hypothetical WWIII. Full of strategic & tactical military, naval, and air combat technical details. Hardly any character development, pages after pages of insipid writing. Best avoided.
Iceland SoooooooooSigur Ros The cover, that is. The book? This was a true work of art.A tour de force. Only one of Clancy's books, I would ever recommend. Otherwise, his novels should be used as bricks in constructions of something more useful.
Red Storm Rising is basically a fictitious story about a conventional war between NATO and the Soviet Union.
Written by Tom Clancy, it is one of the best books I have read.
It is an incredibly realistic portrayal of what a real shooting war would be like.
This book takes place in the middle of the Cold War and is very well written and researched.
It gives the feel of reading an account of a real event and not a novel.
Tom Clancy has written many more novels, all circling a similar theme but all being incredibly "good reads" and I have yet to be disappointed.
The war is viewed through many different characters, from a high ranking general in the USSR to a lieutenant who gets separated from his unit and is put behind enemy lines.
One of my favorite features in this book were the distinct story lines.
The  USS Chicago  story line is about a submarine that originally plays an insignificant role until it goes on a missile strike mission to the Barents Sea, deep behind enemy lines.
In that book, Clancy weaves smaller story lines around a navy professor, Jack Ryan, who gets on the wrong side of a terrorist organization.
Now (2012), it reads as an alternative history thriller: What if the USSR chose to risk a limited war with Nato in order to gain a geopolitical advantage in the Middle East?Don't let me mislead you: The political set-up is dull and at the point of naïve.
This is a war fought with conventional armies and large machines of war: planes, battleships, tanks and missiles.Why is this my favorite Clancy novel, or, indeed one of my favorite thrillers?
However, I grew up in the 1980s, when a major war between USA and USSR still was considered a possibility.RSR is a survey of (then) current military technology and tactics, it's fast paced and quite exciting.
'Red Storm Rising,'' Tom Clancy's second novel after his phenomenally successful ''The Hunt for Red October,'' continues to demonstrate this writer's amazing ability to assimilate modern weaponry and warfare into a thrilling and frightening realistic tale.
The Soviet Union, having suffered an attack that creates a critical energy shortage, decides they must seize the Persian Gulf.
But to do this, of course, they must first neutralize NATO's considerable forces.
Clancy once again is off to the races in this fast-paced super-power thriller.
The visual images Clancy conjures up for the reader are engaging - and enthralling.
This is a good book that many might skip. Don't! Just because it's in the Cold War era, it's a really good volume and shows the early character building of Clancy. I liked how some of the twists worked out at the end.
In The Cardinal and the Kremlin it was a several chapters long technical explanation on how anti-nuke missile lasers work.In Red Storm Rising we’re treated with a delightfully boring meeting of Russian politburo members discussing how much fuel they have left before supplies run out.
Since the sub cannot really “see” underwater without sonar and I don’t have photos of what’s going on, reading these passages in the book made it easy for me to imagine myself in the submarine with the captain.Unfortunately, just when a scene is finding its groove, Clancy ruins the moment with excessive, nauseating technical detail.
As a huge fan of the Jack Ryan books by this author, I was somewhat disappointed by this novel.
Although it had a lot of the same Clancy flair, with the obviously well researched references and well constructed subplots, it lacked the intrigue and thrill of the Ryan series.
It was also fairly repetitive, as the majority of the book is primarily detailed descriptions of how various units (ground, air and naval) would have prepared for and responded to different types of threats.
At other times I felt as if I was reading a play-by-play retelling of some video game junkies last few hours of game play.
The book that hooked me on Tom Clancy. It’s been thirty plus years since I read it. The one thing I do remember is reading it for three straight days on the porch. My wife, at the time, was not a happy camper. Shocking. I tried to get her interested. She read maybe thirty pages and didn’t understand my excitement. Perhaps this is why the marriage didn’t last? I will be rereading this thriller in the near future. Five Stars.
Mary's now working on Clancy's latest: Dead or Alive - now on the best-seller list.I'm looking forward to reading that book this summer, but for now, here are some details of why I liked Red Storm Rising so much:Background: this book is about what would happen (in detail) if the Soviets attacked the west (set in 1980s), because they thought an internal(!) crisis could not be handled any better way.If you like grand (militory/political) strategy - this book has it.If you like battle tactics - it's here in spades.If you like taut, sweat inducing, can't-stop-reading drama - this book is amazing.If you like good portrayals of how the soviet system actually worked - it's here.If you admire the importance of geography in military/political affairs, artfully weaved into the plot - don't miss it.If you like various languages, customs, and stereotypes used appropriately - this is it.If you don't mind a maddening oversupply of military jargon and acronyms - well that is here in abundance.If you like competence admired and sloth usually getting it's just deserts - Clancy's the man.If you're a techno-geek (of 25 year old cutting-edge military & misc.
I got this book for Christmas as a teenager and did not sleep as I read it.
It was such an engrossing read especially as a teenager in the 1980's.
Tom Clancy was so detailed in setting up the plot, you had to push through the many chapters setting up a climax.
I have always considered a Clancy book like a roller coaster, you go up a long hill really slow until that moment when you crest the top and take off on a wild twisty, curvy ride.
That crest usually happened about midnight which meant I did not sleep until morning.
No siis, eihän tässä ole oikeastaan mitään sisältöä, jos ajatellaan romaaneihin noin niinkuin yleisesti kuuluvia elementtejä kuten juonta tai henkilöhahmoja.Toisaalta tässä oli tuhat sivua naurettavan insinööri-/sotahistorian fuksi -tarkkaa kuvitusta siitä, miltä kolmas maailmansota olisi kasarin lopussa näyttänyt. Ja kun tällainen kontrafaktuaalinen jossittelu ja milsim-hommat kiinnostaa, niin tietysti ahmin tämän kahdessa päivässä silmälasit huurussa.
I believe this was my least liked of the Tom Clancy books I have read - it dragged on in a few sections, and the military maneuver details were overdone to my taste. However, since it was the second one I read and the first was really good, I kept going, and was glad I did.
Maybe I should have read this book before I read "Red Army".
I was interested in the storyline, characters, politics, and technology throughout the whole book.
Even though it’s over 700 pages, Clancy keeps it interesting by consistently switching to short subplots from all types of characters on every side of the conflict while still maintaining a connection with the handful of main characters throughout the entire story.
I appreciate Clancy trying to add some depth and human emotion to 700 pages of technical jet fighting and submarine sonar warfare but he clearly has less developed perspectives on romantic relations than on the relations between opposing aircraft carriers.
Excellent book.
finished this one this late morning 24 jun 17, great story, 4.8968794 stars. quite the tale...air/sea battles, air/air, air/land, sea battles, the whole shebang...iceland...europe...various parts of the atlantic. mind-boggling, the number of missiles. what was it? one french exocet hit the brit ship down south? i think i liked the story of iceland the most, if i had to chose. the rest of it is pretty "gripping" too. subs. i guess they have nothing like "iff"...other than dead-give-aways. read one report that this is dated. ummm. no. read the description again, matey, and tell me it is "dated". heh!
Well researched and realistic portrayal of a late Cold War NATO / USSR conventional confrontation, which holds up chillingly well even today. Naval buffs will enjoy the details, don't come for deep character development and inter-personal relationships. The players, platforms, and units are comparable to today, and the game of course remains the same.
Li de relance, em entrevista à WIRED, que este foi um dos livros que inspirou P.W. Singer sobre o recente Ghost Fleet, uma muito interessante especulação realista de uma guerra entre potências globais num futuro próximo.
Os infodumps e especulações sobre geostratégia espicaçam a curiosidade (especialmente para leitores que, como eu, se pelam por este género de especulação) mas o romance lê-se como a crónica de uma guerra que nunca aconteceu.
Quanto aos combates de terra, Clancy traça um retrato de pura guerra de atrito na Alemanha, com as forças combinadas da NATO a tirar partido da sua superioridade tecnológica para desgastar e eventualmente travar uma fortíssima ofensiva soviética.
Here, Clancy buries us under his usual encyclopedic knowledge of military matters and a well-thought out series of tactics and strategy, but doesn't give us the characters we need to dig our way out.And oddly, even as I complain about Clancy's everything-but-the-kitchen-sink narrative, I have to point out that his hyper-focused narrative is missing too much to really make his depiction of World War III believable.
The Russians talk about building political support for their invasion, but Clancy never really makes clear what the war is like from a non-military perspective.
Submarine chases, spying, naval, air and land battles, news scoops and political face-offs all combine in at least five simultaneous story lines (there are more, but only about five at any one time) to tell a story of WWIII in a nail-biting thriller.
One example is that nuclear weapons are portrayed not as military but political weapons: the tension is thus concentrated between two (or more) nations, rather than between two armies…Throughout the story, Clancy shows he is aware that the universe is a quirky sort of place and takes full advantage of this by making people do, well, people things.
The research of the author is well done, very professional, making this fictional scenario look very realistic and very possible.That's why is a good book in my opinion, especially considering the times when the events are taking place.
