https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77770.These_Happy_Golden_Years
This is the book I read the night before I got married ten years ago.
I think that "These Happy Golden Years" is the first book that I ever read in which a courtship and marriage was described in any detail - I was probably 8 or 9 on first reading of it.
It seemed eminently suitable to read before my own marriage.The book makes me happy inside, the gentle way that Laura and Almanzo become a couple and go out on rides together.
The times spent with friends and family, and happy teaching experiences for Laura are also lovely to read.
I am very bitter about the $100 organ Pa insisted Laura needed to buy for Mary to play during her visits home (for a couple of weeks every other year or something). This was the money nobody could afford to waste.
On our last day in South Dakota we drove all around the lakes – Spirit Lake and Lakes Thompson and Henry – and out to the former tree claim where Laura and Almanzo’s first home was, and so in reading this book I was able to take a little nostalgia trip of my own, following the paths of their buggy rides.I love Laura and Almanzo’s courtship (which is really what this book is about).
It is officially classified as a Ghost Town.(Wikipedia entry about Manchester SD)(Yeah, video footage of THAT TORNADO by seriously insane storm spotters.
It's like one neverending buggy ride at times, but I still love this series (mainly out of nostalgia).
I think this is my favorite Laura Ingalls Wilder book. I really like Almanzo and his horses and ... it's just an amazing book. :)
Imagine life before cars,phones,recorded music,electricity,ect. A simpler time, before all the hustle and bustle of the modern day. All the little house books are the stories of Laura Ingalls life. Its very interesting reading about how life was back in the 1800s. I promise you will feel greatful for all modern day luxuries, after reading this. She gives alot of amazing details of how things were done, so you even learn alot about history with these books. I love this series,and no matter if your 13 or 83 these books are a great read.
These happy golden years are passing by, these happy golden years.  Arguably the most recognizable quote from the eighth book in the series and rightly so. We transition from girlhood to adulthood by having Laura slowly, but surly, fall love. I distinctly remember that this was the first time that I mourned the loss of a character - I was in fifth grade and the book-Laura was still alive. Yet, I remember sadness and sorrow. The Laura we knew has grown into a woman. It's no longer Ma, Pa and La
Arguably the most recognizable quote from the eighth book in the series and rightly so.
We transition from girlhood to adulthood by having Laura slowly, but surly, fall love.
I distinctly remember that this was the first time that I mourned the loss of a character - I was in fifth grade and the book-Laura was still alive.
I sincerely wish we could've had more books for this series prior to Laura marrying Almanzo.
Or even more written by Laura as her daughter grew up.Audiobook CommentsRead by Cherry Jones and accompanied by Paul Woodiel on the fiddle - together they really brought the audio alive.
Loved it.Blog | Instagram | Twitter
Ok so how could I not put my favorite LHOTP book on my bookshelf? I can't. There just ain't better readin' than a little LHOTP. Especially with a little fiddle music in the background while wearing a bonnet.
I actually had a hard time reading those parts; they reminded me so much of my first years teaching-the struggle to be firm yet fun.
Always at this time of the year I yearn for those days when I decorated my classroom to some fanciful theme and watched the children's faces for their reaction.
Perseverance continues to be the theme of these books.
No one in the Ingalls family gets discouraged.
Lots of songs in this book.
Music is quite beloved to this family.
I can't get over how quickly one can read these books.
THE SERIES ENDS HERE, I CAN'T HEAR YOU.
I finished up my reread of this series today.
I still get scared with Laura during her first teaching job (how awful was that Mrs Brewster?!) I chalk a lot of how good I did in certain classes in school to stories like these, and wish more kids today were still reading them.ETA 2017: I think that, in spite of this series not being romance, that Almanzo Wilder is one of my top most romantic males.
He's sweet and caring, and he lets Laura be Laura.
And he lets Laura drive his crazy, half broken horses!
<3 It made me so happy.I am truly content with this being the end of the series, which is why I currently have no intention of reading the last book, “The First Four Years”.
Maybe someday I’ll take a look, but honestly, I feel like I already read it, figuratively speaking, and I’m just wanting to leave things on a happy note instead of being made kind of sad.
I always like to read THIS book after reading 'The Long Winter', even if it does not keep the correct order- this just seems like the proper continuation of where 'Winter' leaves off.
I like this one because it tells the story of Laura and Almanzo's courtship, beginning when she is 15 and ending with their marriage when she is 18.
Hell, I was reading this at 10 or 11, and *I* had kissed boys by then!
It is a great read, and a great continuation of the series.
I like it 3rd best overall, I would say, of the original 9 books.
Such a lovely happy book. I felt quite emotional finishing it. Especially knowing sorrows that lay ahead.I loved that Laura appreciated her happy moments at this time in her life though, and knew that they really were happy golden years.
Because how can a piece of wedding cake taste like sawdust in your mouth?Dad: Why do you think Laura thought it tasted like sawdust?El: Because she's leaving home forever.Dad: But why would that make it taste like sawdust?El: Well, in the book...
I guess I'm going to have to wait until after dinner to get some banana bread.Dad: Do you think the banana bread mom made is going to taste like sawdust?El: NOOOOOooooo!
Will it taste like sawdust when you're getting married and leaving home for keeps?El: I don't think so.
I love the Little House series.
Saying this book wasn't my favorite is like ranking the Harry Potter books.
Even a four star here is more beloved than most other novels.
That said, this book had a bit too much Mrs Brewster (sad and scary!) and too many buggy rides (redundant) for me to really relish it like I did the others.
That said I think Laura does a masterful job conveying the joys and pangs of growing up and moving on from the nest.
And I love what Almanzo had to say about not wanting a wife who just obeys him ;-)
I liked it, and all the Little House books (my favorites are Little Town on the Prairie and The Long Winter).
Well, don't we all want to be popular and resent people who lord their wealth over us?She also has a great ability to evoke mind-numbing cold, as happens a few times in These Happy Golden Years and on just about ever page of The Long Winter.
For anyone who has an interest in the Little House books, this is a great experience.
Going to DeSmet as an adult helped put flesh on the bones of people whose lives jump off the pages of Laura's books.
By far my favorite of the series!
Laura embarks in her profession of teacher (at the ripe old age of 16).
Throughout the book (and after Laura has moved back home for closer teaching positions), their romance blooms.
Since this is a children's book, there is obviously nothing torrid about it, but, it's no less thrilling when he finally gets around to proposing.
At the end of the book, Laura moves with husband Almanzo to their own claim.
The last few pages describing her entering her new house (he'd kept it a surprise) and exploring are my favorites.
I was so excited when I got to read about Almanzo and Laura being able to date and get engaged. I have never forgotten my first time reading this book as it was the first time I wanted to marry and hold out for the man of my dreams like Laura did. I'm lucky in the fact that I got my wish.
This might be a long one, since it's my favorite book in the series.We begin our story once again in the cold winter of the Dakota Territories.
The school is 12 long, cold miles from home.
Almanzo must have really loved her, because she is ridiculous sometimes and tells him she won't ride with him after she is back home.
I have a real thing for strapping young farm boys who are good with horses and very kind and brave.
Apparently strapping young farm boys are her jam, too.
We get a whole book about a single long winter and then books like this one where Laura goes from 15 and starting as a teacher to 18 and married with her own home...in fewer pages.
Takeaways from book eight: Laura hates teaching, Laura wants to get married sooner so she can stop teaching, Pa really likes taking Laura's money for things he doesn't need, and Laura doesn't want to have to have a traditional wedding.
She gets married in black cashmere at home and won't say the "obey" part of the vows.But she doesn't believe in women's rights or needing the vote.
No matter how many times I re-read this book I never get tired of it, and I'm constantly finding new things in it! This has got to be the best book in the whole of the 'Little House' series! It's absolutely wonderful. Five stars just doesn't seem to be enough for it!
বইটা শেষ করে খুব মন খারাপ ছিল, কারন এটিই লিটল হাউজ সিরিজের শেষ বই।লরা আর আলমানজো এর বই আর পড়তে পারবনা ভাবতেই খারাপ লাগে। কাজী আনোয়ার হোসেনকে মন থেকে শুভেচছা জানাই। তিনি অনুবাদ না করলে এই কলাসিক বইগুলা কখনোই পড়া হত না।
বইটা শেষ করে খুব মন খারাপ ছিল, কারন এটিই লিটল হাউজ সিরিজের শেষ বই।লরা আর আলমানজো এর বই আর পড়তে পারবনা ভাবতেই খারাপ লাগে। কাজী আনোয়ার হোসেনকে মন থেকে শুভেচ্ছা জানাই। তিনি অনুবাদ না করলে এই ক্লাসিক বইগুলা কখনোই পড়া হত না।
I love this series - have read it so many times and I always get swept up in the story.
I pretty much love everything about their story--how Laura doesn't know how to make conversation at first, how Almanzo continues to come for her even if there's nothing in it for him (persistence!), how they tame Barnum and Skip, the buggy rides out to the lake, Laura's songs…*sigh* He really respects her and she respects him.
And…I think I'm getting a little sappy here (I just love this story that much!).
I do love how Laura doesn’t want to agree to a vow that she can’t keep.
He doesn't exactly seem like the 'type.' Oh, I just love Laura and this series!
These Happy Golden Years is the last "real" book in the Little House series.
There is another, much shorter, book afterward (The First Four Years) that was published from Laura Ingalls Wilder's notes and outlines, but this is the last she wrote.
6 or 7 years old.
Gah. As a 9 year old girl, this was the height of romance.
Old fashioned romance, I'm telling you.I prefer to pretend their story ends at the end of These Happy Golden Years.
I've since learned about the hardships Laura and Almanzo faced in their life together, and it really depresses me.
And finally in the course of my rereading the entire series, I come to my very favorite!
The story where Laura really grows up and eventually leaves the nest, the story of Almanzo and Laura's courtship that forever ruined me when it comes to real life romantic relationships (no young man has ever taken me out on a buggy ride!
(Because depending on who you ask, The First Four Years doesn't "count" as a proper part of the series.
I think I actually like it even better as an adult than I did when I first read These Happy Golden Years as a kid.
Secretly, I'm jealous of the simplicity of the times. Buggy rides, just getting married & setting up house without a big charade, the sunsets and the sights of the rolling hills...I didn't think this book was as exciting as a child. Laura was older and growing up. I didn't understand it. But now I'm in the same time of life, it seems, as Laura is in this book and I enjoy her stories. Maybe my life has stories too.
This is my favorite Little House book. I think that pretty much says it all.
<3 So sweet
