https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32326398-sometimes-i-lie
There are three things you should know about me:1. I'm in a coma.2. My husband doesn't love me any more.3. Sometimes I lie. HOLY MOTHER OF TWISTS.I'm not usually a fan of books that hang everything on their twists or reveals, but it seems I can make an exception when my mind explodes multiple times from all the surprises. This is a book where it's important to go into it knowing as little as possible, which makes it difficult to review. But I shall try.Amber Reynolds wakes up in hospital, but t
This is a book where it's important to go into it knowing as little as possible, which makes it difficult to review.
Amber knows her husband is somehow involved in what happened to her, but she can't remember why.
Well, the truth as Amber sees it.
I thought the author set it up perfectly, framing the narrative secrets just right so that I didn't even fully work out the questions I should be asking, never mind the answers.
I'm interested to see what the author will do with it; I only hope it is actually necessary, seeing that all the secrets seem to have been given up in this book.
Upon finishing "Sometimes I Lie," I re-read the last few pages over and over and then I just sat there, staring out, shocked; wild eyed - almost in disbelief.
You've heard about the plot:My name is Amber Reynolds.There are three things you should know about me:1.
Is Amber's memory of them reliable?
Sorry, but I'm afraid I can't tell you.When reading the book more often than not, my heart pounded and my breath caught in my throat.
I finished the book a few days ago and I'm still trying to find it.
ALL THE STARS !!!!Amber Reynolds wakes up and doesn’t know where she is. For a moment she wonders if it might be a hotel. But then she realizes she’s in a hospital. She doesn’t know how she got there.Why can’t she open her eyes?She knows her name, that she’s thirty-five years old, and that she’s married to Paul. Memories come but she pushes them away. Something very bad has happened but she can’t remember what or when. “Why isn’t he here?” But she may already know the answer.She screams but no o
ALL THE STARS !!!!Amber Reynolds wakes up and doesn’t know where she is.
She doesn’t know how she got there.Why can’t she open her eyes?She knows her name, that she’s thirty-five years old, and that she’s married to Paul.
Something very bad has happened but she can’t remember what or when.
She’s alone with the word.
She can’t speak.ComaShe wonders how badly she’s injured.
She’s all there in body and mind.
She realizes just how long she’s been alone.She doesn’t know what happened to her…Now HE’S there.
🖤 I never have as much time to plow through Audio books as I do print, due to small children, but don't let the amount of time I took getting through this fool you.
It's been awhile since a novel took me by surprise in such a way.Don't read reviews going into this; just go in blind.
For what it's worth, I think a good amount of the reason as to why this was a 5 star book in my experience was the narrator!
She was absolutely brilliant, so much so that I immediately went to audible to find out what other books she's narrated as I would listen to her reading out her grocery list.
** 4.5 STARS**All psychological thrillers mess with your head, that's what we expect, but Alice Feeney has taken it a step further with this clever, compelling story.
A story related to us by Amber Reynolds as she lies in a hospital bed whilst in a coma.I really don't want to give anything away here - it would be way too easy to give away a crucial segment of the plot and spoil the whole thing for anyone else, let's just say that this is possibly one of the most twisty turny books that I've had the pleasure to read.The characters are brilliant ( some of them are chilling ) but they're very much at home in their own skins.
Wow!
Now that my friend, is a thriller!!Amber wakes up in the hospital, able to hear everyone around her.
Only she can’t move a muscle, can’t speak a single word.
She is trapped in her own body and has no way to communicate.
What happened?What a finely-crafted whodunit!!
It will have you questioning absolutely everything!
What’s real, what isn’t!
As the story unfolded and I tried wrapping my brain around the mind-blowing twists, my head actually started to throb!
But that’s a good thing with a thriller...right?
Love that.Alice Feeney has delivered a diabolically twisted thriller that will leave you speechless.
They say a picture is worth a thousand words.. do you agree?There were these moments.. And definitely this:There were moments where there were feelings of:But overall, I felt like this:
what will happen?People are not mirrors - they don’t see you how you see yourself.a careful, careful tiptoe review for a book whose hook is how twisty its twists, how shocking its conclusion.the publisher-letter slipped into this ARC says:It has an ending that completely messes with your head in the very best sense - and if you can see it coming, you’re smarter than everyone I know!which is the best way to sell a book to me.
i’m positive that i’m not smarter than anyone anyone knows, but i read a lot, and pursuing that english degree in my youth both diminished my chances of amassing great material wealth and also ruined me for many of these “twists for days” books.
Sometimes I Lie is all kinds of crazy! Here’s the thing-- l love crazy, but in this case it was just too unbelievable. I just couldn’t suspend my disbelief long enough to get sucked in and love this book like I wanted to!  Three narratives intersect:A woman lies in a hospital bed in a coma. She can hear everything that is going on around her but cannot communicate to let those who love her know that something is very wrong. Switch to days before her accident, and we learn about her life. Her ma
Here’s the thing-- l love crazy, but in this case it was just too unbelievable.
We also go back in time to read a young girl’s diary written in the 1990’s, which gradually reveals that all is not what it seems.I found myself really bored while reading this.
The only part that piqued my interest was the young girl’s diary.
I love a manipulative narrator, and the author of the diary did not disappoint.
Maybe I have just read too many thrillers and have become too jaded to enjoy outrageous plots and twists, which was certainly the case with this book.
The author decided instead of really developing and working on one or two major shocking reveals or duplicitous characters she would throw in every possible thriller cliche imaginable.
Which in the end worked against her (at least in my eyes) because it became borderline comical, like how many horrific events can happen to one woman within a week time span?
The reveals were so random and out of no where that I was left uninterested and not at all shocked, you can't really be stunned by a characters behaviour when you never truly got to know them in the first place.
5 clever blockbuster stars to Sometimes I Lie 🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 Here’s all you really need to know: My name is Amber Reynolds.
I was so excited to read this book with my Traveling Sisters that I couldn’t wait for its release in the US.
The only fault I found was that, while the diary chapters were necessary to propel the plot forward and connect the loose threads of the intricate web, they were a bit too lengthy.If you like endings that are tied up neatly, or even endings with simple closure, this book may drive you mad!
🙃 There is quite a bit left to interpretation, and I liked that because it fit with the whole questioning tone of the book.
God.The twists in this book have literally turned my brain to mush.
I'm sitting here dumbfounded by the final twist unable to find more words to do this book justice.
This book is one of the best twisty-turny psychological thrillers Ive ever read.
I thought this book was good from the start but by the ending it propelled into the brilliance category.
Everything just works.Plot.
Reveals.
If you love a good twist you will adore this book.
Anyone that reads books.
I'll be annoyed at any review that drops in spoilers for this one.
All review opinions are entirely my own and completely unbiased.
Amber Reynolds tells her story from her hospital bed where she’s in a coma.
She shares her tale of what happened in the few days leading up to the coma and in the past.Because she has partial amnesia and is high on drugs, she makes for the ultimate unreliable narrator so you can’t figure out what is real and what is scrambled.
Once you make it to the end and all the deceptions are unraveled, it makes for an extremely satisfying story.Thanks so much to NetGalley for the opportunity to review this book, which will be RELEASED MARCH 13, 2018.For more of my reviews, please visit: http://www.theresaalan.net/blog
FOUR STARSThis book is best read quickly.
There is a flow to the lies, the twists and the plot.
The twists intensify and once you think you have it figured out....you sure as hell don't.
The plot is compelling and tense, it reminds me of one of my old favorites Before I Go to Sleep.
I'm so done with superficial, twisty for twists' sake and I CAN'T BELIEVE I'M SAYING THAT!!!
😢There are plenty of books that offer much more in the way of characterization and believable plot twists.
I would absolutely recommend SOMETIMES I LIE for a quick, entertaining read!
Here’s the thing about hyped books: some people read it and rave, the reviews spread like wildfire and you get your hopes up for some false promise of something out of this world only to be inevitably let down.
But please, reader, *try* to go into this one with an open mind and no preconceived notions and just enjoy the ride.
Because it is quite a ride to enjoy.
So this isn’t really a review but more of a recommendation😆 read it, enjoy it, and let me know what you think after you have here👇Traveling sisters group read, review to come when everyone is finished😊
Review was originally published on Through the Chapters|Blog*4.5 stars*  "Sometimes the right thing to do is wrong, but that’s just life."  Sometimes I lie because I have to. Sometimes I lie because I need to. Sometimes I lie because I want to.We all lie for multiple reasons. Sometimes the lies are harmless or even essential to heal the ones we love. But, there are some other types of lies that destroy families, careers and lives.You may wonder which type of liar is the main protagonist of the c
The narrative switches between “Now” where Amber attempts to figure out what led her to comma; “Then” a short period of time prior the accident; and “Before” where the readers are able to track her childhood through the entries of some diaries.The most compelling evidence of the novel is the introduction.
Nevertheless, we also know that she has a partial amnesia, she is under drugs and thus, it is a real struggle to comprehend where the illusion ends and where the truth starts.On the one hand, I caught myself multiple times considering that I’m into a mind of a psychopath.
We are not sure how Amber ended up in the hospital in this coma , but she does admit that sometimes she lies.
Very cleverly written and I loved hearing what Amber was thinking while in this coma sizing up everyone in the room and giving us her insight.
I loved trying to figure out what the lies were and who to trust.
A fast read for me because I needed to find out what was going on.The ending was my favorite part because it leaves you questioning yourself and if you perhaps missed anything.
I swallowed this book in two, big gulps!The book starts with Amber waking up in a hospital unable to move but able to listen and smell everything around her.
Amber suspects her husband and maybe her sister but is not sure...
This was an excellent psychological thriller!
There are elements of dysfunctional relationships and you must read this book carefully, if you blink you may miss very important details.
I can't say much about the book without entering into spoilers but overall I enjoyed it and recommend it to all readers of thrillers.
Not to believe everything you are reading, and not to even try to figure out where this is going.
Despite knowing this going in, this novel still made my head spin.
I liked that, it has been a very long time since I have read a novel quite this psychologically twisty.
For the longest time couldn't quite figure out what the journal had to do with anything, but as with most everything else in this novel, the author reveals exactly when the author wants to reveal.
Not that I had much choice since I could never quite figure out what was going on.
2.5 ⭐. This is a review of the audio version. I know that I’m in the very minority but this was just too crazy. I found the first half of the book very creepy. It almost read a bit like horror for me. Maybe that’s because I hate hospitals. I’m not sure. Then came a point in which the book took on massive twists and soooooo many twists. The last couple hours of audio were over the top in my opinion. Too many outrageous twists!!! It was like Gone Girl on steroids. Maybe I just read it wrong becaus
This is a review of the audio version.
I know that I’m in the very minority but this was just too crazy.
I found the first half of the book very creepy.
It almost read a bit like horror for me.
Maybe that’s because I hate hospitals.
I’m not sure.
Then came a point in which the book took on massive twists and soooooo many twists.
The last couple hours of audio were over the top in my opinion.
Too many outrageous twists!!!
It was like Gone Girl on steroids.
Maybe I just read it wrong because most people loved the book.
Believe me........Not all the chess pieces have been placed on this gameboard.Alice Feeney creates a storyline with a "dig and delve" theme here.
Amber still doesn't know why she is here until the pieces slowly start to fit together.
I think that we lovers of mystery/thrillers have just about had our fill of the over-use of "Then and Now" along the lines of every story in the past few years.
Admittedly, this was the only way to keep our finger on the pulse of Amber through the past years to the present situation.

We are all just ghosts of the people we hoped that we were and counterfeit replicas of the people we wanted to be. Amber Reynolds wakes up in a hospital bed. She's conscious but unable to move or speak. Even though she can't remember anything about the incident that caused her injuries, she's certain that her husband has something to do with it. As the professional and marital troubles that plague her present and the traumas that defined her past come to light, the circumstances leading to Ambe
There are so many reasons why I shouldn’t like this book–it features the world's most unreliable narrator, amnesia, some tricky trickiness, and the very last page left me irritated AND confused–but I loved every second of the reading experience!
Things have changed since we were children, perhaps not as much as we might have liked, but the world is a different place.
Two people can experience the same event in two different ways and both their versions feel true to them.
So when you go into a book knowing nothing except the protagonists name and three things about her including that she sometimes lies.
Even though I was second guessing every thing I was told, the twists still got by me not giving themselves away until the reveal.
There are three things you should know about me:1.
And then the story opens with Amber in a coma.
This is an author I'll be watching out for.I had a couple quotes that stood out to me, but I honestly don't want to give anything at all away from the plot.
The prose is often dream-like with a stream of consciousness style as Amber tries to make sense of it all.
However, I grew frustrated when I'd read 2/3 of the book and was still totally in the dark and growing weary of the narrative style.
I recommend this book be read quickly in one sitting or, at most, over a couple of days.
Luckily, this was a group read with the Traveling Sisters, and it was great fun to dissect as we read and discuss our guesses and theories along the way.In a field saturated with psychological thrillers that sometimes start to all sound similar, with the same tired tropes, this book was unique and well done.
It was very interesting to follow Amber’s thoughts as a coma patient who could hear all going on around her, but could not interact.
With that being said, I enjoyed this novel, but didn’t love it as much as I thought I would.
I enjoyed the suspense of trying to figure out exactly how it all would come together in the end, but it didn’t ‘wow’ me.
I would recommend this novel because it was enjoyable for me overall and the majority of readers, along with my Traveling Sisters, seem to absolutely love it.
A well crafted novel that is well paced, full of good characters and you just don't know who to trust.This is the sort of book where the suspense built up makes you quicken your reading so you can learn more.The novel is told by Amber while lying in a coma in hospital as well as from her past.
Her sister Clair and husband Paul regularly visit her in hospital but she is not sure who to trust and what to believe.This novel is to be released March 2017 and it is sure to be a success.
In fact I must admit that I’ve re-read the last few pages a few times and I’m still trying to figure out if I got it right.There are a lot of enthusiastic reviews for this one, and many suggest going in blind.
Second, there is a subplot that leads to a scene in the hospital that was really disturbing and to me didn’t fit in with the general feel of the book.The first reservation didn’t really prevent me from enjoying Sometimes I Lie. This is a display of cleverness — not a deep character study.
The event giving rise to my second reservation threw me off for a while and seemed unnecessary.Anyways, I’m still trying to figure out if I got the end right.
I love unreliable characters so I was very excited about this book!Unfortunately for me, most of the twists were easy to see coming and the story simply didn't impress me.It's definitely a page-turner and if you like your thrillers to be full of twists this might be worth a shot!
Keeping with the theme of this book I’ll be reviewing this by telling you three things you should know about Sometimes I Lie and why I think it’s a must read in 2018 for psychological thriller fans!1.
Could I trust her intuition, after all she’s an admitted liar, so trying to figure out what was true and what was false was just downright fun and entertaining!I’ll close by encouraging you to read this, it’s fast paced, exciting and brings something fresh to a genre full of authors trying to be the next Gone Girl on the Train and then fell Into the Water.
