https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47956.Daughter_of_the_Blood
My wife bought the first book in this series and for some reason read it. The whole time she read it she complained how bad it was. Then for some reason I read it and we finished the series. The only explanation I can come up with is that magic is real, anne bishop is a witch and we fell under her spell. Even now I fall into the black obsidian stone.
especially when this place apparently uses interdimensional travel?!) I wish I could feel sympathetic to the characters- but they all remind me of a too-perfect job interview: "my only flaw is that I love my work...
too much." The plot is well-paced, and makes good use of cliffhangers- but there's just too much else wrong with it to make me want to read the next one....and who names their characters Saetan (very obviously meant as an analogue to Satan, the devil, what-have-you) and Daemon- but doesn't bring along any of the associated mythology or world-pieces?
Sure, that's kind of Satanic, in a sense, but not quite the sense the author wants, I think.
For her virgin effort at novel-crafting, Anne Bishop has laid down a strong piece of dark fantasy that is richly drawn, psychologically savage and dripping with THROB.
It’s absolutely essential to the plot and I thought the strong sense of the sensual without the need for explicit sex scenes was very well done.
Dorothea has systematically killed or destroyed all those who could challenge her power and has fostered an atmosphere of plotting and mistrust among the rest of the court which keeping all of the stronger Blood males in line by....well, you’ll have to read for yourself.
The storyline was okay, and the world of the Blood did prove quite dark.No, what disappointed me was Bishop's characterization.
By the novel's end, I remember thinking that if I had to read something like "Saetan's jaw dropped/Saetan grabbed a chair for support/Saetan's hands started trembling" in response to some unwittingly outrageous thing that Jaenelle had said just one more time, I would throw the book at a wall.
P.S. I don't want to spoil anything for anyone, but I found the novel's romantic undertones...squicky, for lack of a better word.
I mean, forget about any kind of description beyond "gold eyes" and "long black nails," (sounds SUPER sexy already right!) all you're going to get is how handsome and attractive and slinky and attractive and scary Daemon is, and Saetan has a bad leg, and Lucivar has wings.
Everything fades to black or gets kind of hazy and abstract whenever something serious is going down, and honestly, instead of leaving it to the reader's imagination, I think it would have done the author some good to actually write the minutiae of the torment she piles onto her characters.
Pretty much the last scene in the book is Jaenelle accusing Daemon of being like everyone else who just wants her body, so, to save her, he...
It seems women in power decided the best use for the men is to keep them as sex slaves: I have yet to see a single free man in the part of the book managed to read; there are some outside of the world though.
The moment I stumbled upon complaint that the characters often behave like complete retards just to move the plot I realized it is time to DNF.
There are better books out there.P.S. I would like to say my thanks to all my friends who discouraged encouraged me during the read.
Things I did not like about this book:- Proper names (the winter solstice holiday is Winsol... Satan is Saetan... Demon is Daemon... - Lack of character development- Redundant descriptive language- Elaborate and pointlessly nonsensical magic schema- Crappy plot arc- Completely implausible antihero- TOO MUCH SHIT ABOUT HAVING SEX WITH KIDS- TOO MUCH SHIT ABOUT HATING WOMENThings I did like about this book:- There was a horse character- The child molesters got exploded
2.5 "trashy, campy, cheesy, sordid" little stars.In grade six, my second best friend and I discovered her mother's V.C. Andrews' Flowers in the Attic series and we snuck them out the bookshelf and read them in the park while eating chips and drinking lemonade.
If you are looking for some excellent dark feminist fantasy I highly recommend Jacqueline Carey who writes exquisitely and has a fertile imagination with fascinating characters and plotlines.If you are in the mood for some trash then this book is adequate.
I'm going to hang my head in shame though and admit that at some point I will read Book 2 because sometimes you want to read something that is "trashy, campy, cheesy and sordid".
Excerpts from a stream of consciousness transcript as I read this series:"So that's his brother?
Ah, right, his brother with wings.
. Saetan Sa Diablo?
. Magical cockring of Obedience!
. Aww, that's actually pretty cute.
Family togetherness, d'aww.
He just circumcised someone with his teeth!
. Oh, look, the unicorns just showed up.
. Magical cockring of honor!
. So he has wings, and also apparently pon farr.
. Oh, ahahaha, the unicorns aren't going to perform the wedding ceremony are they?
. Of course they are."The breakdown: 90% cheerfully sexist fluffy fluff about family and love.
VERY perverse, twisted, brilliant, engaging and provoking bit of fantasy reading...
It was definitely worth reading!Not for the faint of heart, not for the squeamish either.
Lovers of angst will appreciate it.
People with kid sex triggers won't, at all.The book receives 5 stars for the original world built from scratch.
A beautiful and terrible world submerged in darkness, where almost everyone is twisted to some extent..., many beyond all possible and impossible boundaries.
I will go on with this series)Q:We know how it ends practically before it starts.
(c)Q:There are some questions that shouldn't be asked until a person is mature enough to appreciate the answers.
Bishop creates a fantasy otherworld unlike any I have read (and I've read quite a bit).
Bishop further engages in disrupting patriarchy by showing the fallacies present for women in that social system.
She challenges patriarchal norms regarding sexuality, language, power and relationships between women and men.
Her work, which is centered in an otherworld that is distinctly non-medieval and yet is technologically vague as to almost be modern, empowers women by showing how they can empower themselves through belief in their own power.
As I started reading Daughter of the Blood by Anne Bishop, I wasn’t sure what to expect.
And they better hope the man they are with is gentle and loving, because if their first time is brutal, the girl will be destroy mentally, forever lost to the Twisted Kingdom, a realm where their soul goes, never to return, because they have been brutalized.There are three Realms within Daughter of the Blood: Terreille, Kaeleer and Hell.
They are Saetan, Daemon, Lucivar and Jaenelle.
But he is not just rescuing the person that Jaenelle is, but her true being that is Witch.Anne leaves things open that will hopefully be concluded in the second book, Heir to the Shadows.
She refuses to stay safe in Hell when her friends need her help and she keeps secrets about things that happen because she tries to spare Saetan the pain of knowing the kind of trouble she is in.Jaenelle also befriends Saetan's two sons Daemon and and Lucivar although her relationship with them is very different to the one she has with Saetan.
Daemon and Lucivar are both slaves who are under control of Dorothea, they have spent centuries being abused and tortured biding their time until Witch comes into her power and can free them.
This book made me think a lot about the reaction many of KMM's fans had to the relationship that formed between Ryodan and Dani in KMM's Iced.
I almost put the book down multiple times.Now on top of all of this I had major issues with the writing.
But unlike with Jacqueline Carey's series that world building never really comes.
I spent hours reading this book and I still don't understand where in the world these places are and how their magic works.
So here's the kicker- even after all of that and the frankly horrifying event that happens in the last few chapters I'm still considering reading book 2.
Janelle, the once and future queen, is just a child but is already coming into the power that will outshine all in her shadow.The chosen one whose coming was foretold over 1700 years ago, she would be the one to put an end to the corrupt rule of the Jeweled Blood Queens- witches who rule the people known as The Blood.But the women in power will not loose their grip so easily and it will take the wisdom of her soul father, brother, and future consort to keep her safe until the time she is ready to come into her own.Right off the bat I became enthralled with this story.
The three realms of Terreille, Kaeleer (the Shadow Realm) and Hell are ruled by the Blood, people given the gift of Jewels of different-ranking colours.
Terreille, corrupt and dissolute, has been taken over by the High Priestess of Hyall, Dorothea, working in tandem with Saetan's Demon-Dead wife Heketah.
Saetan and his two still-living sons, half-brothers Daemon and Lucivar, have been waiting centuries for the arrival of the Queen who will rule them all and end forever the corruption of Dorothea and Heketah, which has already seeped across the closed borders into the Shadow Realm: Witch.
The world building is actually done throughout the series so it was Awesome to reread and follow everything much clearer.
Daemon swooning over little 12yo Janelle should have been creepy but knowing he was going to have to wait 7 years to tap into her wasn’t really a stretch since he’d been waiting 700 years.
I LOVE Janelle (not like Daemon…haha) she was such a good hearted heroine and I hope she comes out of this book with some semblance of herself.There was probably one too many storylines going for me and the politics was drug out a little for my total enjoyment.
Both Daemon and Lucivar are enslaved by evil power hungry Queens but when Daemon feels the pull of Jaenelles blood magic it's clear that finally Witch has arrived!
I thought that the author portrayed Jaenelle as an old soul and this reader could believe that time would bring the couple together.
Many societies see nothing wrong with young females finding themselves in relationships and it's important to remember this is a story set in a brutal and deadly world.This book charts the beginning of these characters journey and it's a very complex storyline that Ms Bishop weaves.
Finished this first book from the Omnibus and damn that ending was intense. Also, quite sad. This world is very brutal. I find it interesting how very "adult" this series is since my first intro to Bishop was The Others and that whole series is PG-13 at worst. I wonder if this is a product of its times, since it was written back when LKH was still popular.I'm a fan though, and I wish there was more dark adult fantasy like this out there.
I bought this book with no concept of how much I would be drawn to the world Anne created.
The ending is quite possibly one of the most painful I've ever had to read.
After I sat in shock for more than a few minutes, I checked the publication date, thinking the second book might be available soon.
I bought the book in it's first month of release.
The wait for Heir to the Shadows felt like one of the most drawn out years of my life.
Since reading this book, I have passed it on to about 15 of my freinds.
I got misled by the cover and thought it was a young-adult book until certain sex toys were mentioned.
Maybe it’s because she was really young or naive or maybe Anne Bishop is a genius, but I loved this heroine and really cared/worried for her as things began to look more and more bleak as the book progressed.
I even became convinced she deserved Daemon, but more on that sexy beast later.Another expectation that ended up being proven false is that these glorified dominatrixes Queens would be entirely two-dimensional “baddies” with a sadistic streak.
Bad things happen of course, so she needs lots of rescuing.
Conversely, if you prefer well-written fantasy, go for something else - Jennifer Fallon or even Anne Rice, if you like.There is some 'darkness' in this book, but it's clumsily executed.
Again, if you want real bleak darkness go read Robin Hobb's Farseer Trilogy and then come back to this one and you'll realise how clumsily it's been done.
Then you'll realise how clumsily it's been done here.I will admit a bit of the "oh how cuuuuuute" reverse-harem thing tugs at my female heartstrings, but there's nothing new here.
The first 15% is a maze of names, places and world building.
Once you do (and if you can take tough topics), the world is intricate and the plot snowballs to an exciting (although cliffhangerish) finale.The audiobook is narrated by John Sharian, a new to me narrator.
At the beginning, his voice sounded somewhat young for such a story but as I kept listening, I understood why he was a good choice.
When a character spoke, the listener were in no doubt who was speaking.I'm totally looking forward to reading the next one in the series.
4.75 stars.
This book completely engrossed me -- I didn't want to do anything else but finish it.
The beginning 10% is difficult to get through, alot of world building, keeping names straight, figuring out the magic power structure and the polictics.
But after I got past that, I was just blown away.
Gritty fantasy?
This book is not for people bothered by violence, sexual violence or sexual deviance.
This is a world where those in power use sex to punish and control.
However, despite that, it is still a beautiful book -- unique magic and very interesting relationships.
What incredible world-building!
DAUGHTER of the BLOOD is a fascinating tale about a young girl learning her magic while navigating through the perils of those who would use her just for her power.In my haste to learn about the heroine, I also read HEIR to the SHADOWS (4 stars), and QUEEN of the DARKNESS (5 stars) and must admit that I cried more than once throughout the story.
For an author to absorb me into her world with such intensity that she had me crying, well, that’s pretty incredible.
I am dropping this 25% in. I know there are many reviews out there talking how fucked up this book is. I did not drop it because of this. I did it because it's incredibly boring. It reads like a Romance novel, just with more perverted sick shit in it. And I feel like the author wanted to have all this crap in order to make it stand out. Nope. ZzZzZz
She will also have the ability to reunite the three realms that are currently being corrupted by blood Queens and their jeweled hierarchy where the color of your jewel is the way to determine how powerful you actually are.This is a society that is highly female orientated, with males taking up the positions of the sexual whores that service the witch queens.
They are used for sexual pleasure and torture and if anyone jumps out of line, they end up shaved.There is one realm, however, that is still ruled by the Prince of Darkness Saetan, and it is the one place where the main character actually finds sanctuary and comfort when she travels there to learn her craft.
YA nonsense stuff. Weird eyes and odd names abound. The intro (or prologue) in first person didn't actually put me off at first: it was written competently enough. The third person narrative, oddly, did. Info dumps in strange, skewed paragraphs. Almost too much information all at once, with not a lot being said.Also, why can't you call it a penis? "Organ."
This story was very different from anything I have read before. I typically stick with paranormal romance but I had decided to try something new and I'm glad I started with Anne Bishop. Although the story could be a little confusing at times, I still thoroughly enjoyed it. I'm glad I purchased the trilogy so I can immediately start reading the next one ;)
I spent most of this audiobook thinking “yes this is really creepy, but there’s no way the author’s going to go there, right?” And… then she does.I liked Jaenelle well-enough, and quite frankly, I’m tempted to continue listening to this series just to see her enact revenge because those uncles sure do deserve a good ass whooping.
Mind you, I don’t think there’s any way you could possibly sugarcoat the fact that a bunch of ancient men are obsessed with a little girl.
