https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22592.The_Collected_Stories_of_Philip_K_Dick_1
This, the first a series of six volumes of Dick’s collected short fiction, covers the period between1947 and 1953, encompassing his first six month marriage, his even briefer college experiment at Berkeley, the beginning of his second (nine year) marriage, his four years working at a Telegraph Hill record store, and his first year supporting himself as a full-time writer.
Because you are currently reading The Theory of Groups and Quantum Mechanics, a few recommendations in Science,Goodreads told me just now. This book was fourth on the list. Well, that's either very clever or very stupid.
İlk cild olan- "Bay Uzay Gemisi' ndə PKD' nin 1951-1952-ci illərdə yazdığı 25 hekayəsi yer alıb.
PKD' nin hələ o vaxt 23-24 yaşlarında olduğunu nəzərə alsaq, kitabdakı elmi- fantastik (bəziləri fantastik olmaqla) hekayələr çox mahircə yazılıb.
PKD' nin yaradıcılığının son illərində yazdığı romanlarındakı, yazarla birgə duyduğum hisslərin ən ibtidai formasını bu hekayələrdə də hiss etdim.
Kitab gerçəklik haqqında ortaya qoyduğu suallar, distopik gələcək düşüncələri və biraz da gələcəkdə bizi gözləyən texnoloji inkişafa qarşı qorxusunun yazarın gənc yaşlarından sahib olduğu düşüncə forması olduğunu ortaya qoyur.
Və 70-ci illərdə yazdığı romanlarında obrazların dilindən göstərilsə də, yazarın da sahib olduğu paranoyanın izləri gənclik ədəbi nümunələrində də görünür.

Having never read any Philip K. Dick, but long having an interest, I’ve decided to read through all his works in chronological order as best as I can (for various reasons, I won’t be able to read his first novel, Gather Yourselves Together, until July). I want to give you my impressions of his works as a first-timer and observe the evolution of his writing. I started with this one.  This collection contains most of Dick’s earliest stories, mostly written in 1952, although the first one, “Stabil
I was hooked as soon as I read “Stability”, which contains a classic time travel paradox, and a truly bizarre ending that I don’t fully understand, but like so many of the stories in this collection left a vivid image in my mind.
Many of the sci-fi tropes featured in this book seem almost clichéd, but one has to remember Dick has been imitated so often that many of these must have seemed much original at the time, especially time-loop paradoxes, which Dick uses often to great effect, at least three times in this collection, in “Stability”, “The Skull”, and “Meddler”.
Stupendous collection of short stories, I have been converted to Dick's idea of science fiction (set out by him in the preface) that the lead character of a science fiction story should not be a person but instead, an idea. An idea that has roots in this, the modern world, but changes the face of what we know so as to make us question the possibilities of our future (and in some cases our alternate past or present). Give me more!Best stories: "Beyond Lies the Wub", "The Defenders", "Paycheck", "Variable Man", "The Skull", The Crystal Crypt"
This collection of early (as in pre-breakdown) Philip K. Dick stories runs the gamut from later-became-blockbusters such as "Paycheck" to hidden gems like "Beyond Lies the Wub". If you're not familiar with Philip K. Dick, this is a good place to start.
Dick better in his short stories.
He has fantastic and weird ideas, but too often his plotting and characterization can't sustain a novel length.
Anyhoo, this is a collection of his earliest short/medium length works, covering 1952-55.
Many are strongly influenced by the cold war, something that oddly contrasts with the current U.S. culture that has us fighting three simultaneous wars of choice.
Among of my favorites is "The Preserving Machine" wherein a scientist is so concerned that WW3 will destroy cultural treasures that he invents a machine to turn classical music into animals so the music will be able to survive independent of human civilization.
The five volumes of Dick's collected stories are a masterclass in how to write short stories from intimate character studies to massive universe spanning plots, all wrapped up in a few pages.And even more impressive is that very few of them take place in the same world. So often a massive amount of backstory has to be sketched in for us, or sometimes simply left for us to infer, and yet almost every time it works and is consistent.Not every story is perfect, but more than enough of them are to justify the five stars.
Thoroughly enjoyed this collection of stories by Philip K. Dick. The sheer range of his imagination staggers. His exploration of a variety of subjects, in particular the consequences of war, result in stories that are often insightful and yes, often chilling as one recognizes the possibilities presented in each one. My favourites include: Nanny, Colony, The King of the Elves, The Variable Man and Paycheck.
(I assume that's because of when he was writing.) The finale and everything ends up being pretty predictable, but there's still something fascinating in how it unfolds.The Defenders - 5 stars - The first story revolving deeply around Cold War Hysteria, a theme he was big on.
A story where the end is writ at the beginning.Paycheck - 2 stars - This is one of the PKD stories that I find really, really frustrating, because it has such a nice premise, and handles it well for a while, before completely going off the tracks.
Tek kelimeyle muhteşem. Bilim kurgu hayranlarının kaçırmaması gereken harika bir eser. Her bir öyküde yaratılan dünya, karakterler öyle ince tasarlanmış ki, her birinin sonunda insan üzerinde düşünmeden edemiyor. Çoğu 50 lerde yazılmış bu öyküler bir çok filme esin kaynağı olmuş. Geç keşfettiğim için çok hayıflandım açıkçası.
İşte bunların hepsi bu kitapta genç Dick tarafından ham bir şekilde önümüze sunulmuş.
Ham dediğime bakmayın gayet olgun, gayet umut veren, gayet Dick'imsi parçalar her biri.
Açıkçası BK'nın genel olarak cyberpunk,distopya ve gerçekliği sorgulayıcı yapımları üzerinde duran Dick'in Oyuncak gibi Elflerin Kralı gibi daha fantastiğe yakın hikayelerini de okuyabiliyoruz.
Özellikle Oyuncak adlı hikayesi Toy Story'nin ilham kaynağı gibi bir şey heralde ( tabi daha şeytani, Dick sosuyla).Sözün özü, kaçmaz bu fırsat,edinin okuyun ki daha sonraki ciltler de basılsın :D Daha 4 cildimiz daha var Dİck'ten okunmayı bekleyen.
This first volume of Philip K. Dick’s short fiction introduces the themes that dominate his writing throughout his storied career. His abhorrence of war. Fear of atomic destruction. The folly of over reliance on technology. Dick is able to introduce these themes, make the reader consider his subtext, all while telling superb, plot driven fiction.
This was my first bush with PKD, and immediately made me a convert. This collection is more than a few science fiction short stories. This is PKD at his best, flirting with an idea, stretching it as far as he can, stretching you as far as he can, and finishing with a great story leaving you with plenty to ponder. There really isn't a bad story in this extensive collection.
This is a rather interesting tale. So happens, a crew member on this ship buys an animal from a native for only 50 cents. Its strange but whats even stranger is that he talks, and hey, its no ordinary talking the thing is rather philosophical, anyway its called a Wub... and its interesting to learn what happens to him!!
I am not going to write a summary, it is annoying when people do that. Congratulations on restating everything that is located on the back of the book. Anyway, this is what I think... This is one of those books I recommend purchasing and not borrowing from a library or a friend. Great short stories that can be read and reread many times.
You can see all Dick's themes developing, from simple stories about a dog whose barking is the only thing frightening away dangerous aliens, to more involved fantasies about a subterranean post-apocalyptic future. "Beyond Lies the Wub" might make you consider vegetarianism.
Simply amazing... Philip's imagination knows no bounds!
Speaking of his development as a writer, PKD wrote in 1968 after years of publishing success: "The difference between a short story and a novel comes to this: a short story may deal with murder; a novel deals with the murderer...."So we find in this early cache of work the themes that PKD would mine throughout his career: paranoia, breakdown in communication, weirdness, transmigration or metamorphosis, anti-war, lethargy and abulia, rapid evolution, The Fall of humankind, precognition, and the limits of knowledge.
This volume covers the years 1952-55, and includes such gems as "Paycheck" and "Roog".A nice feature of these volumes is the inclusion of PKD's story notes.
I particularly love his commentary on his first sale, "Roog", in which he remarks how a blind high school student intuitively grokked his story, in contrast to a respected anthologist, who rejected it.
It practically begs to be read aloud.Other standouts in this volume include "Variable Man", about an engineer from the past whose mechanical intuition saves humanity; "The Builder", about a modern-day Noah; "The Colony", a riff on Gulliver's Travels; "The Indefatigable Frog", which proposes a solution to Xeno's paradox; and the title story, one of Dick's best examples of turning everyday objects into stars in their own right.
VOLUME 1 of 5.
This isn't the book I read. I actually read book 5 of the same series, but it wasn't on goodreads. It was good, in a dated, apologetically sexist sort of way. Very good stories if you're willing to tolerate that, some of the most creative fiction I've read in a while.
there are more great ideas in this one book of stories than there are in most writers' complete works.
but the vast majority of them sort of bore me, and that's something considering what a huge fan i am.
which is of course what they were.still, there are flashes of absolute brilliance, and the instantly-identifiable pkd voice is there.Hall placed four items on Commander Morrison's desk: a microscope, a towel, a metal belt, and a small red-and-white rug.She edged away nervously.
"Major, are you sure--""They're all right now.
Harmless.Captain Taylor fingered the red-and-white rug warily.
A fun collection of short stories (seemingly presented in the order they were written?
I was suprised by the general lack of hard science, and the heavy focus on war (critical).LIGHT SPOILERS: My favories were the first and final stories.
the first, Stability, for being so crazayyy and challenging (concerning angels and alternate timelines/alternate cultures and the ideas of human innovation itself), and the final story, Nanny, for being such a biting criticism of our consumer culture (nanny robots, programmed to protect and love our children, but also to fight competing products to death).
İçinde belki de bir tane bile vasat öykü bulunmayan bir külliyatın ilk halkası, ilk cildi. Daha 20'li yaşlarında bile dehanın gelişi yavaştan belli ediyormuş kendisini. Pek çok öykü fikirsel anlamda harika yenilikler ve yaratıcılıklar barındırıyor. Her şeyiyle müthiş.PKD'nin bu öykülerinin Türkçe olarak -geç de olsa- yayınlanıyor olması bizler için bir nimet, ancak yayıncı Büyülü Fener'in dikkat etmesi husular var; dizgi, imlâ ve çeviri hataları, bilhassa da baştan sona çok ucuz bir görüntü sergileyen A4 kağıdına basılmış bir kitap. Gördüm, 2. cilt de öyle, dilerim düzeltirler.PKD'ye tapıyoruz.
আহামরি তাকলাগানো গলপ এই সংকলনে নেই, কিনতু পরায় পরতিটি গলপে একটা নতুন চিনতার বীজ আছে। ফিলিপ কে ডিকের বেশির ভাগ গলপই এমন, ঘটনার ঘনঘটার বদলে পাঠকের মনের মধযে গলপের শুরু থেকে শেষ পরযনত একটা নতুন চিনতা রোপণ করে যাওয়াই সেখানে মুখয। পড়তে দারুণ লাগলো।রোয়াল ডালের সঙগে ফিল ডিকের লেখার ধরনে খানিকটা মিল আছে মনে হলো, যদিও রোয়াল ডালের গলপগুলোতে সাসপেনস আরো জোরালো, আর ডাল দযনুমাঁতে মনোযোগী, যেখানে ডিক গলপের শেষ লাইনে পাঠকের মনের দরজায় দারুণ এক ঘা বসিয়ে দিতে পারঙগম (সতযজিৎ রায়ের "ফরিৎস" গলপটা যারা পড়েছেন, তারা
আহামরি তাকলাগানো গল্প এই সংকলনে নেই, কিন্তু প্রায় প্রতিটি গল্পে একটা নতুন চিন্তার বীজ আছে। ফিলিপ কে ডিকের বেশির ভাগ গল্পই এমন, ঘটনার ঘনঘটার বদলে পাঠকের মনের মধ্যে গল্পের শুরু থেকে শেষ পর্যন্ত একটা নতুন চিন্তা রোপণ করে যাওয়াই সেখানে মুখ্য। পড়তে দারুণ লাগলো।রোয়াল ডালের সঙ্গে ফিল ডিকের লেখার ধরনে খানিকটা মিল আছে মনে হলো, যদিও রোয়াল ডালের গল্পগুলোতে সাসপেন্স আরো জোরালো, আর ডাল দ্যনুমাঁতে মনোযোগী, যেখানে ডিক গল্পের শেষ লাইনে পাঠকের মনের দরজায় দারুণ এক ঘা বসিয়ে দিতে পারঙ্গম (সত্যজিৎ রায়ের "ফ্রিৎস" গল্পটা যারা পড়েছেন, তারা ব্যাপারটা বুঝবেন)।
An entertaining collection of some of Mr. Dick's short stories. I see a lot of similarities between his style and that of Ray Bradbury. Philip K. Dick didn't have that magical way with words or the insight into what makes us human that Bradbury did, but his stories always make me think. I interpret the message behind his stories to be one of hope or impending disaster for humanity/society. Speculation is a key part of a good science fiction tale, and Philip K. Dick was really good at wrapping a "ripping yarn" around an idea.
J'ai décidé de lire tout Phillip K. Dick. Ce premier recueil de nouvelles est à la hauteur de mes attentes. Dick a une pensée non-linéaire, anti-conservatrice, cherchant dans chaque situation l'élément qui détonne, qui étonne. Un libre penseur déployant son talent sur le canevas de la science-fiction.Ces premiers textes sont empreints de l'esprit de la guerre froide alors en cours. J'ai hâte de lire la suite...
A fantastic collection of sci-fi tales by Phillip K. Dick. I can see why they made a movie out of "Paycheck" and his other stories have the potential of being translated to the big screen. Main of his stories have dark twists and a bleak outlook for the fate of humankind. Some do have glimmers of humor and hope, like "The Short Happy Life Of The Brown Oxford."
