https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5368.Forever_Amber
A little known trivia about this book. Artie Shaw wanted his beautiful young wife Ava Gardner to be well read, and so he encouraged her to read many intellectual books. He was very annoyed when he found her reading Forever Amber. He called it a 'trashy romance novel.' Years later Artie Shaw would wed the author, Kathleen Winsor.
) The historical events of The Plague and The Great Fire of London add interest, but it's the characters that stand out, and not always for the right reasons.Amber is definitely a flawed amoral individual, and she's not the only one.
Amber herself was likeable at times, and positively frustrating at others ( she never seemed to learn from her mistakes ) but it was a fun read, taking readers through the Royal Court, and the taverns and theatres of the day and overall it was really enjoyable.
I am not like you...I'm fussy, I'm particular, I'm very judgmental...and I could only stand to read 323 pages of this awful book!I too am one of those people who thinks you should finish the book if you start it.
The character development was seriously lacking, the dialogue was horrid, the story line was barely if at all believable...And I will admit I am happy to suffer all of those things if I love the protagonist.
Meet Amber, the Scarlett O'Hara of the English Civil War and Restoration era.
Like Scarlett, Amber wants the man she can not have, whilst moving heaven and earth to obtain his love.
As long as Amber shares the sick-bed with her lover Bruce she barely has time to notice her, no doubt, painful experience.
You'll have a lot of fun reading this book if you want to find the answer to this question.If Amber lived in our modern time she would probably be the successful CEO of a major conglomerate instead of vainly chasing her romantic interest.
I have never before read so many pages about a protagonist I hated this much.At the beginning of the book, Amber is a childish, selfish, spoiled little brat who uses her natural beauty and sexuality to get what she wants.
Throughout the entire book she stayed the same childish, selfish person she was at the beginning, and I hated her.
It was a book about Amber's Obsession With Bruce And How She Let It Ruin Her Life and The Lives of Everybody She Touched, and if she ever grew up, she'd stop being such a selfish, obsessed twat.
Of course, once Bruce is back Amber manages to screw things up nicely (what a fool) and fresh out of likely prospects (young men with money), Amber finds herself an older one to protect her from life's little problems.
Not on your life, nor does she ever figure out that Bruce is never ever going to marry her - sleep with her, yes.
Watching Amber is like watching a train wreck - you can't take your eyes away for fear of missing what's going to happen next.
I read this book because of my grandfather.
When this book came out, he the whole crew were given one copy to share.
So they tore the book apart and passed the chapters around.
You might get the third chapter one night and the tenth another.
He read the whole book, but completely out of order.
After he told me this story I went to the library and checked out the book.
It was a good book especially if you like historical novels.
I think one of the reasons I liked it so much was the background my grandpa gave me for it.
I am always interested in how my adult self reacts differently to books than my adolescent self did.
Amber is not a lovely or likable person, and Bruce Carlton is much more callous, but for much better reason, than I had thought.
I suspect Bruce Carlton would not be enough for her either, but the fact that she cannot have him makes him seem like the ultimate prize.
The most interesting character for me is still Bruce Carlton.
It’s a lusty romp through Restoration England taking in Newgate prison, bawdy taverns and theatres, the plague, the great fire of London, royal courts, various bedrooms and general day to day life of the 1660s.
She fought hard for what she wanted at the expense of anyone who got in her way, and as with Scarlett, sometimes I was cheering her on and other times I wanted to slap her.
I tired of Amber’s constant cycle of crisis, rescue, crisis, rescue which gave the book a stop and start feel.
But as an overall book it was great fun, and I’ll never forget that ending, priceless!
Amber takes you through one of the most interesting periods in the English history. A feisty, brave and independent heroine who is not afraid to go after what she wants. 10 stars
The scene where Amber goes to a ball in a dress meant to wow everyone and ensnare Bruce in her arms once again fell pretty flat for me, in no small part to the character of Almsbury who forces a suddenly ashamed Amber to stay and dance in a scene that immediately recalled Bette Davis and Henry Fonda in "Jezebel." Does Amber learn from this court humiliation?
Once seems plenty.I appreciate Winsor's research (the plague portion rightly deserves its fame), and it did much to make the book worth the read, but I am quite glad there was no sequel.
This book had everything you could ask for in historical fiction - court intrigue, infidelites, Newgate prison, smallpox, the plague, fire in London...It kept me going for 992 pages, yet I hated every character - there was no one with any redeeming qualities!! It was a very interesting read!
Absolutely the best chick-lit classic of all time. This historical romance is poorly written worthless junk, and I loved every second of it! I have never read a Harlequin Romance, anything by Barbara Cartland or Danielle Steele, or anything with Fabio on the cover. The only reason I bothered was the person who sent it to me. Not just recommended it, took the trouble to send it. This is a thoroughly enjoyable piece of fluff, entertaining in ways I can't begin to understand or describe. Heartily recommended for a long plane flight.
Now, I have to admit, if I met her or someone like her in real life, I would hate her.
There is NO redeeming moral to this story; but I challenge a reviewer to write a story about THEIR OWN life that is any better than this book--I doubt they will come up with any dribble worth reading, and the point of this story is not a divine moral or some reason for living that's universal--it's the personal life and struggle of a young girl thrust into society and forced to make something of her life or die trying.
It caused a stir for all the sex (which is not graphic at all) and for the sexual manoeuvring of the main character, Amber St. Claire.
It was the sexual rivalry of its main character Lettice with Queen Elizabeth that reminded me strongly of Forever Amber.
I think that we 21st century women can view Amber, et al., as markers of how far we have come—to a place where women are actually considered to be persons, i.e. we can vote, we can choose who we marry or if we marry, we can support ourselves—at least here in the Western world, we are no longer completely dependent on men to defend and support us and we have more autonomy than ever before.
Delightful book, with a fast-paced plot with plenty of twists and turns, culminating in a funny ending you'll not expect.
The prose isn't particular, but the plotting and the historical detailing do make up for that.
And if some may feel the heroine isn't likable, that's true, yet in my case it worked because I knew she wasn't meant to be lovable, and once that's accepted, you can sit and enjoy the ride.
But overall, my major complaint is that there wasn't a second part; there was stillmuch plot left open-ended.
“Forever Amber” is a raunchy novel (but not really a bodice ripper and not that raunchy in terms of today’s standards) following the life of fictional Amber St. Clare during Restoration England.
“Forever Amber” can be described as having a slow beginning as it feels somewhat like Winsor doesn’t have a firm grasp on her footing but this certainly strengthens as the novel progresses.
Although “Forever Amber” is vivid, helps bring history to life, and is certainly better than most of the HF of current day; it is also repetitive, dragged out, and features a one-dimensional (and unlikable) characterization of Amber.
No, this is not a book I enjoy.
It is just that I don’t like Amber at all anymore.
It is just that I don’t care for any of the characters; in fact I dislike all of them.
I would only recommend this book to those who particularly enjoy plot oriented novels because the characters just do not draw you in.
I tried.Remember, my one star doesn’t at all mean this is a bad book.
You have to decide for yourself what you are looking for in a book.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Slowly her naïveté wanes, and at one point she is even bedded by King Charles II and the Duke of Buckingham.
Beginning during the first days of the Restoration, Amber's life does not seem to directly involve the goings-on of Whitehall beyond this point.
Instead, chapters discuss Amber, then chapters discuss the king, or Castlemaine, etc.
Amber always seems to come out victorious.
Slowly her life of ascending precedency merges with the royal court, where she flourishes.
At heart she stays a country filly and never wins, but what a race she runs!
She believes she can charm him like all the other men in her life.Amber is a complex character, her story is about her rise and subsequent follies once she is left alone to fend for herself in London.
Possibly at first it was for her own good, but traveling through this sweeping saga, I cannot help but think that at times Amber channeled her inner Scarlett O'Hara.
Bruce definitely is a different character than the other men in Amber's life.
He keeps insisting about not marrying Amber, he's smart, and selfish, and I can't help but think channeling his inner Rhett Butler at times too.
I'm really surprised that this book has been described by so many as a "romance novel" -- to me, it seems the antithesis of one.
I was totally terrified of this being a romance novel.
This is NOT a romance novel in the modern sense of the term.This book, originally written in 1944, follows Amber St. Clare from 16 to 26, and her multitude of lives and loves that follow within those ten years.
So that definitely made reading the book a lot more meaningful.
A Christmas gift from my Mum. I read this when I was a teenager and loved it so much. I am a bit daunted by 972 pages!* * * * *Wonderful, exciting, riveting book! I only have ONE complaint about it: The author used "but nevertheless" many times. Bless her heart, I'll forgive that grammatical error because the story was so, so, so GOOD! Read it! Amber is an English Scarlett O'Hara of the late 1600s.
Amber is without a doubt one of the most vile and despicable characters I have ever read. Kudos to Kathleen Winsor for creating such an unrepentant monster in a piece of popular model fiction for her time. No surprise given the antics of the h that Popes banned this baby.  lays the groundwork for historical fiction and bodice rippers. Yes, it's epic, not in terms of a generational HF as the story take Amberonly through approximately nine years in Charles II Restoration England. No spoiler here i
No spoiler here in that Amber is the ultimate sleep your way to the top to become one in Charles II rotation of mistresses.
As the lover lays dying, Amber runs to Bruce.
10) Bruce being almost, almost, as despicable as Amber continues his affair with her despite being in love with Corinna, his wife.
Eventually she flaunts the affair in little Mary Sue aka Corinna's face when she's pregnant, and Bruce IS DONE.Sex is fade to black by the way.
The nobles tell Amber that Corinna died in the boat on the way to France so Bruce is going directly to Virginia.
It is certainly an interesting journey for Amber, a sexually vibrant but unexperienced, illiterate country girl who believes that sex and love are one and the same, and watch her become the vicious, backstabbing, adulterous titled skank she became.
Windsor also points this out on no less than two separate occassions, having Amber muse what Uncle John would say if he could see her in her new role, with as much money, titles and lovers as she could stomach.I absolutely adore this book, and not merely because it was banned by the Catholic Church in the 40's for its "shocking" depiction of sex.
How I felt before I started reading the book: Excited, intrigued, and a little intimidated by its enormity.
When I started reading the book: Still excited, but a little taken aback by how nonchalant the author is in her situation descriptions.
I don't care how loose the British supposedly were in 1666, but let me tell you, if I loved a man as much as Amber did, I would not sleep with his friend.
How much detail can you write about the damned drapes, what the footmen were wearing, how the seat cushions looked, and honestly, Bruce was always wearing the same thing so why describe it every time...
This was one of my sister's favorite books, and it took me several decades to finally get around to reading it.
Why did I wait so long?
FA is really the grandmother to most current historical romance literature.
I think its racy content caused quite a firestorm when it was published.
Amber isn't a likable woman, but she's determined, ambitious and scheming - much like another fictional heroine we love to hate: Scarlett O'Hara.
FA is arguably a classic in the genre of romantic fiction, and a highly entertaining read.
What a book!
It felt more like an epic, with its length but fascinating read.
She was the type of person who you wanted to succeed, to be happy, to be with her love, yet your nose crinkle in disdain about her dishonourable actions.
Definitely a fun read- but not by any means light!
All in all, it was a well written book- definitely a harlequin romance novel!
Not to mention that the ending was very unexpected- a rarity in these type of novels.
I first read this book in 1968 and started a life-long interest in Restoration England.
This novel (the unabridged version, if you please) I smuggled away to read at night.
Back then, such books were not considered suitable reading material for 12 year olds.Amber herself reminds me now of Scarlett O'Hara in GWTW (a book I didn't read until much later).
Besides, my interest was not in the heroine but in the times, the events and (naturally) King Charles II himself.
Reading the book again in my late 20s I still found much to enjoy.
One can do far, far worse than read this novel.
She freely enters into whatever she believes will further her cause be it sordid relationships, marriage for convenience and money, acting and comes out as a favored mistress of the King, but there is always only one person that she really wants and really cares about.
There are also other mini stories built around other personalities at court but Amber's story is dominant.
With time to think about the ending though I have decided that someone of Amber's grit and willingness to do whatever is needed to survive and to prosper will be fine and either turn things back to her advantage or find some new means and way of living!
