https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9912.The_Rules_of_Attraction
The following is a true story.I was staying over at the boy's house.
I opted to wait for him in his bedroom.
At first I thought the narrator was a girl.
The boy came home and kissed me and noticed I was reading it.
The next time he came over he brought it along with him and told me I could borrow it and smiled.I finished the book two weeks later.
I handed it back to the boy, along with a drawing I made for him.
"What are we doing?" I asked him, because I thought he liked me.
Then some other girl, Deidre I think her name is, black spiked hair that already looks dated and trendy, black lipstick, black fingernail polish, black kneesocks, black shoes, nice tits, okay body, Senior, comes over and she’s wearing a black halter top even though it’s like forty below in the room and she’s drunk and coughing like she has T.B., swigging Scotch.
I’d tell her, I saw you stealing Dante.Now Sean is way more worried about banging the cute freshman girl....
Interesting enough, Camden is probably the most famous college in recent American literary history.
LIke a spectre floating behind the scenes, we have the tale of the secret admirer who is the only person who seems to understand real desire, and sustainable love.
This book may have sounded contrived to some, but to me it was exactly the way I remember being and feeling in college. The dorm, cafeteria and party scenes are brilliant and so are the fast travel sections. When I recently read The Sorrows of Young Mike, it felt like a sequel because the characters were also nihilistic college students, horny and self-involved. It, along with The Rules of Attraction, touches on similar issues that hardly affect the main characters, as they are busy thinking about themselves.
And so I thought that after college this would be less impressionable & a tad less impressive.
Boy was I wrong.
I am still completely enraptured by this novel in which characters DON’T change (breaking 1 of the main cardinal rules of all literature—to make protagonists experience change—Ellis is intrepid).
The details in this are perfect and absolutely hilarious--80's encapsulated brilliantly.
Yet—THIS IS college.
I don’t think another writer has influenced me as much in the art of immorality (this includes [up]Chuck Palahniuk and even the Marquis de Sade)—in his use of effective, rapid, stylish, unforgettable prose.
An absolutely essential novel.
Ellis is one of those authors that seems to grow in stature as time marches on.
sorry, the film version was a better portrait of capitalist consumerism and had the intelligence to re-route the author's misogyny so that it existed solely within the central psycho.
perhaps prior to Rules, Ellis somehow exorcised all that repulsive self-pity that inundanted Zero and then replaced it with malevolent wit.
and better yet, he puts his usual snarkiness in the mouths of characters who - although soulless - still genuinely face more life challenges than his prior student portraits.
good job, Ellis.
Posted at HeradasWhenever I’m the mood for fiction about first world problems, unloved rich kids and the fucked up lives they lead, I reach for something by Bret Easton Ellis.
Whatever the cause, when I’m in the mood for this type of stuff, Ellis hits the spot perfectly.As a teenager, Chuck Palahniuk was my go to when I felt the creeping dread of the unfairness of the world, the uncertainty of life and our lot in it.
My friend lent me this book and I was super excited because we're trying this new thing where we lend each other a book to read every month...
and this was the first one of our new little reading adventure.
I was bored.
Insanely bored.
It felt like someone was literally yelling gibberish so fast into my ear that I almost couldn't understand them at all.I tried to enjoy this.
I felt like I owed it to my friend to at least complete the first book that she was loaning me.
I didn't like it.
Not even a little bit.
Every now and then, a minor character tells their story from their perspective through their own little mini vignette.It is definitely no secret that the 80’s were a wild decade, but holy shit does this story ever make that time period sound completely over the top and insane.
After reading The Rules of Attraction however, I’m wondering if I would have ever been able to survive going to college during this era.I loved the idea of hearing the different character’s perspectives, especially when they were describing the same scenes.
At first glance, this book is pointless.
You finish the book and for a moment you think 'wait - what?
The apathy Ellis invokes in his readers, shows in his characters, is still masterfully done.
He slips in little clues that tie in with events that are mentioned in passing and if you're paying attention to seemingly random paragraphs and details, you get a greater sense of what Ellis is trying to get across to the reader.
This was my introduction into the world of Bret Easton Ellis, and I fell hopelessly in love.I couldn't believe that someone could put together a written work, which not only emanates the characters hyper-sexed-over-zealous-self-conscious-unaware-searching-for-love-not-knowing sadness, but uses language to reinforce its themes.
A theme that pops up in Easton Ellis's later works.As Lillian has reminded me, it does start and end mid-sentence, only in the brillance of Easton Ellis's mind should a slice-of-life story cut in like any other voyeur, "mid-action" (just as simple as listening in on a phone conversation or looking through your neighboor's window).
Easton Ellis makes the reader a voyeur, and yes, it made me feel dirty as it should, but a good dirty.
A tale of hedonism from Bret Easton Ellis, filled with sex and drugs.Bret Easton Ellis is of my biggest influences as an author and this is probably the Bret Easton Ellis novel that most influenced Drug Gang. It contains similar themes and social commentary. To quote from the book itself, “I think we've all lost some sort of feeling.” This postmodern masterwork gives great insight into the possible impact and outcomes of a nihilistic mindset.
People who did not like this book simply did not understand it.
While this book has the ability to stand on it's on, the real genius is how it acts ad a platform that allows ellis's characters (from all other works) to interact with one another outside the narcissism that confines their own stories.
The book begins and ends in the middle of a sentence, symbolically stating that perhaps the reader should interpret the work as a whole in the same way.
Any beginning or end would provide a context that might and most likely would
One of the best books on insight.
We've all contemplated simple questions like "Does my best friend secretly hate me?" or "Does my boyfriend think about someone else when he's sleeping with me?".
You never get attached to one cahracter, Ellis switches too fast between them, but it's what makes the book so good.
You just laugh and feel sorry for all these lost assholes.
I will always say "I'm sorry what did you say?" if someone asks me for quesadillas.
I get upset when I read the best book first, but in this case you should.
This is the most depressing, nasty book I've read in a long time.
I read it all in one go last night, since I have a hard time not finishing books once I start them, but I couldn't stand the thought of having to come back to it.
The book certainly captures the complete lack of affect and total self-absorption of the characters, as well as the compulsive, endless consumption without any enjoyment or desire, which characterized a certain set in the 80's.
The narrators almost never describe the setting, the reader gets almost no picture of Camden college, because it doesn't matter to these idiots.
Told in a free association style of rambling diary-like entries, Sean, Lauren and Paul talk about the hits and misses in their respective love lives while attending college in New England.
While the first few pages may have you thinking otherwise, this is a much lighter side of Bret Easton Ellis.
Apparently there is also a movie version that was made into a gazillion years ago, but as I was not a fan of “Dawson” or the Van Der Douche it never hit my radar.
What a deliciously wicked way to help explain the nuttery that was the Sean Bateman character.
Although I've always intended to read Ellis' American Psycho, I read this book today in an entirely unintended way (my Little's fiance brought two books with him to Ohio State University's graduation ceremony and he let me borrow the one he wasn't reading).
It's definitely a very interesting book, from its purpose to the way it's executed.The Rules of Attraction mainly follows three members of a love triangle - Lauren, Paul, and Sean - while fleshing out the story with some interjections from other characters.
These are 'nice' authors,they write about love, drama, family, murder, all very plot driven.
There isn't a plot, I guess you can say it is a love triangle, but that would give the assumption that Easton Ellis' characters can feel.
Characters are driven by their whims and wants, not about what they feel or need.
More importantly 'Rules of Attraction' opened up a whole new world of literature.
What Easton Ellis opened up for me, was that a novel wasn't just about the story, but how the story is told, the craft, the language, and how it is used.
The book is told from the perspectives of various protagonists in a diary-like style on their lives in college over a relatively short period of time (a semester, maybe less).
It seems to lean heavily on the 'shock value' of the characters' lives filled with casual sex and drug use.
To me, it does not succeed in inducing this disturbingly depressing feeling of (the reader's) lost innocence like Easton Ellis' Less than Zero did, nor does it offer any alternative.
For the readers who are not easily shocked you are simply left with annoying, priviliged characters lacking any depth and a lackluster story without a purpose.
I preferred the movie. i never prefer the movie.
I reads like 20 somethings who are trying hard to be everything they aren't as they try on different attitudes, life philosophies, designer drugs, sexualities.
High school and college years tend to spin by too quickly and are remembered in spurts like the friendships made, the crushes that came and went, the crisis of the moment that pales in comparison to anything pressing after age 27.
The center oozes out and congeals into something else - sometimes as in Ellis' The Informists, something not so entirely different than what it was.
I just really love this man's books. Edgy but not sew edgy, dark, creepy, and palate cleansing.His stuff is not for everyone and I can understand that. :)
Bret Easton Ellis's kaleidoscope novel is frank, belligerent, and exceptionally youthful.
Its preponderance of masochism, sex, drugs, addiction, loss, and love are uniquely pinpointed through various characters, each apathetic and malign to any real sense of adulthood.
This novel receives three stars thanks to Ellis's fatal flaw, incorporating personal notes from an unknown character who ends up offing herself in the community bathroom - a literary addition that completely takes away from the remarkable and sublime experience of piecing together these many, many conflicting lives.
By and large I recommend as a quick pleasure read but surely not a read of excellence.
I hate Bret Easton Ellis. This book isn't the only reason, but it was the beginning of my distate for his pretentious observations on terrible people who do terrible things with societies blessing. Whether I'm missing the point or just not the intended audience for his tripe, I ask you why anyone would want to spend the time it takes to read his novels with these characters.
It beggars beliefthey must be spreading herpesthrush from head to toe.
As they agonize childishly over their various experiences, disappointments and mistakes, it’s hard to feel for them: none of them have any moral compass, maturity, honesty or self-awareness.
Ellis knows how to write, so this snapshot of college life and it’s horribly gritty and immoral details is an interesting read, but it is also repulsive.
The lenses of dark humour with which he looks at the college experience can be very funny: but it is only funny because it’s pathetic, and I am not sure I feel inclined to laugh at that.That being said, the multiple POVs of the same events is fascinating and entertaining.
I think my Ellis-reading experiment is over.
I loved the Roger Avary film version of this book, so I felt like I owed it to myself to read it.
Maybe it's because the setting of the book (the mid-80s) feels so obviously dated, or because the characters seem so schizophrenic, but I just felt like the movie was a little more...real.Honestly, it probably hurt to have gone into the book having seen the film many, many times (if you haven't seen it, you should; it's quite the underrated gem).
I can't emphasize enough how much I loved the format, and I'm a sucker for the little precious tricks Ellis employs, such as having a chapter written by the French character written completely in French, or having the book start and stop in mid-sentence.
And here I thought all New England had to brag about is the Patriots - turns out they have some really happening colleges - or at least had in the 80s, where Brett Easton Ellis' story of sex, drugs, rape, abortion and suicide takes place.The story is told from a lot of different perspectives, but mainly we follow Lauren, Paul and Sean.
That is, as clear as it can get for people who are constantly on something and doing somebody.For me, the strongest point of the book is how the different persons experience totally different things -although they are at the same party or even in the same bed - and how they put different value on the things happening.
I liked it. Good sequel to staple Ellis themes.
It depends on whom you believe.The Rules of Attraction is narrated by Paul, Lauren, Sean, and various minor characters.
The characters aren't surprised by this, though, and there's a sense of fatalism from the very beginning: "I always knew it would be like this." "I knew something like this was going to happen." "I knew it would happen sooner or later." "It always ends up this way."Did I mention the book is a comedy?Despite the heavy themes, Ellis works in a ridiculous number of laugh-out-loud moments.
But while there's genuine anger at the heart of Didion's novel, Ellis's characters remain happily oblivious to what's going on around them.
Sean is in love with Lauren.
Sean is in love with Lauren.
Lauren is not gay.All of these people have had sex with each other at least once during this book some more than one time.
Lets just say a lot of drunk/drugged out sex has gone on in this book.There is a few suicide attempts, one that worked.
Sometimes it felt like I was reading a telegram.
You don't care who it's about just tell me more about these weird people.If you like the way Bret Easton Ellis writes you are going to like this book.
