https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40651708-the-road-to-gandolfo
Good read. Funny, a bit misogynistic but that comes with books written in the 60s and 70s. Worth reading anyway. It's a surprise to see Ludlum wrote something like this. Read the author's comments their as funny as the book and don't take any of it seriously, it's a satire. This is Scott Brick's, the narrator, best work yet. Loved it.
Τρίτο βιβλίο του Ρόμπερτ Λάντλαμ που διαβάζω, μετά το καλούτσικο "Σχέδιο Κασσάνδρα" (γραμμένο μαζί με τον Φίλιπ Σέλμπι) και το πολύ καλό "Το χειρόγραφο Τσάνσελορ" που διάβασα αμφότερα τον Μάιο του 2011.
Είναι μια ιστορία γεμάτη υπερβολές και τραγελαφικές καταστάσεις, που καταφέρνει όμως να κρατήσει το ενδιαφέρον του αναγνώστη με τη δράση, τα διάφορα τρελά σκηνικά και τους μάλλον καρτουνίστικους χαρακτήρες.
Εντάξει, δεν μπορώ να πω ότι κατουρήθηκα και στα γέλια, όμως ήταν ένα βιβλίο που διάβασα πραγματικά πολύ ευχάριστα από την αρχή μέχρι το τέλος, το οποίο μου χάρισε αρκετές ώρες ψυχαγωγίας.
When I first picked up this book decades ago, I expected it to be another in a long line of highly entertaining Ludlum thrillers.
Four hours later, I couldn't remember the last time I had laughed so much, so consistently.
You read every page to see if he can restore sanity to the plot and save the world, but there's a bit of glee that comes with the realization that that will never happen, because that's just no fun.The book is a fun, light read and sure to keep you entertained the entire time.
This was fun.
I added another star for Brick, the reader.
I swear he read this at times in an eerie, but entirely apt, imitation of Arlo Guthrie Jr. doing "Alice's Restaurant".
No music or four part harmony, but still!
It was fun & fit perfectly in with the tongue-in-cheek story.The Hawk was a great character, as were they all.
The Hawk's women (gorgeous ex-wives who still liked & respected him) were definitely characters in their own rights & were shown through the appreciative eyes of the young lawyer.The twists were fun & audacious.
Ludlum of course was the master of the thriller-conspiracy-spy genre of those decades.
A typical “Ludlumesque” fast-paced thriller, but also extraordinarily funny.
I had forgotten that Ludlum was equally renowned for his humour and wit as well as being the master of the spy-thriller genre.
When the Hawk gets kicked out of the army for conduct unbecoming of an officer, his options are limited - but not for long.
And he's going to do it by kidnapping the Pope ...A great fast paced and humorous read - strongly recommened by yours truly.CheersFred
A disgraced general, MacKenzie Hawkins, decides to kidnap the Pope for ransom. He enlists his four ex-wives, a reluctant attorney, Sam Devereaux, and an international cast of characters in this crime. One dollar for every Catholic in the world is his goal as he commands and plans his way. All Sam wants is out without causing World War III, but Hawk is in charge. Can he pull off the kidnapping, or will Sam circumvent it? This is a madcap scheme with wild situations.
Oh how I wish Ludlum wrote more like this. I know he did one more in the series and I will definitely read that one. In this story he shows a great sense of humor and the absurd. It was great fun, the dialog was not bogged down as it tends to be in his espionage books. If you absolutely love his other books you will probably hate this one. But for others who want a fun read, I definitely suggest this.
A great chance to see the humor of Ludlum in a thriller of a story. Fun, engaging, hilarious -
I am reviewing the thriller The Road To Gandolfo by Robert Ludlum which is a very good novel which I bought from a car boot sale.
Robert used to be the biggest selling author in the world and his books were so successful he didn't have to even write a novel every year.
This book is set in the near future at that time and the plot is their is a General who is being dishonorably discharged from the army.
Apart from being a General he is a war hero who has served in every major American conflict starting with World War 2.
This book was first published in 1975 and the author’s name given as Michael Shepherd. Turns out it was written by Robert Ludlum, using a pseudonym, at the mandate of his editor/publisher so as not to smirch his well known name. It was reissued several times and the paperback I have is the 1992 issue. According to Ludlum’s introduction this arrangement gave him the freedom to unleash his staggering imagination. The plot is way over the top and features an army general named MacKenzie Hawkins wh
This book was first published in 1975 and the author’s name given as Michael Shepherd.
Turns out it was written by Robert Ludlum, using a pseudonym, at the mandate of his editor/publisher so as not to smirch his well known name.
According to Ludlum’s introduction this arrangement gave him the freedom to unleash his staggering imagination.
I’ve read Ludlum’s novels in the past and enjoyed them, notably the series about Jason Bourne, but this book just doesn’t compare.
In fact, I’m giving up on it after about eighty pages.
I’m giving it the benefit of a doubt by rating it a generous three stars.
Based on the blurb on the back cover of the book, I was led to believe that this was a hilarious tale told by the master of the thriller, Mr. Ludlum.
I was led astray.
Perhaps because of the term "wickedly funny" I expected just that, but instead got just a few chuckles.
If I hadn't expected a funny book maybe I would have enjoyed it more, but it's only mildly humorous and majorly disappointing.
It's not a bad story, but the story is over the top and not plausible, even by Mr. Ludlum's standards.
Humorous and a Great Read My good friend was clearing out some of his old books and gave me this book to read. I enjoyed the book and I found it to be a very entertaining read. I always appreciate a bit of humor in stories and this book had a number of humorous moments. I laughed at some of the scenes and kept reading and laughed at the characters. I understand that there is a sequel to the book so I'll probably ask my friend if he has it. Assuming he can remember the title.
I remember reading this on the beach in Cancun. I was laughing so hard, a couple people came over to ask what I was reading. The general and his poor schmuck of a lawyer are the perfect pair. If I could find it as an ebook, I'd read it today. I NEVER would have pegged Robert Ludlum as a gifted comedy writer... but this one is excellent. I really am not a Ludlum fan..
And the resolution of Sam's part in the story was the biggest disappointment of all.
I'm gonna ruin the story for you, save you the trouble of going through the pain in the ass.[SPOILERS AHOY]"And so, in the end, all of Sam's pathetic attempts at heroism proved to be in vain and the Pope was successfully kidnapped.
And, for reasons not very well-expounded upon, Sam decided he loved Ann more than all the other MacKenzie Girls who seduced him and manipulated him because Ann was, supposedly, the nicest of the four seductresses (all of whom are still desperately in love with their ex-husband, MacKenzie).
This is a humorous book with a lot of interesting turns in the story line.
The premise is to kidnap Pope Francesco I, the most beloved pontiff since John XXIII and hold him for ransom.
Enjoyed the characters in this book even; the menacing ones are good for a laugh.
My wife read this book before me and really liked it.
A welcome change from the blood and gore of a lot of writing today.
The cover of the edition I read mentioned "suspense".
A good book to relax with.
Humorous for Ludlum, but not the kind of funny that will have you laughing out loud.
The plot is more ridiculous than most Ludlum novels, which is why it was originally released under the pen name Michael Shepherd.
This one involves war hero and living legend General MacKenzie Hawkins disgracing himself by defacing a monument in China's Forbidden City.
Under house arrest in Peking as cases are built against him in both Peking and Washington he comes up with a plan- to kidnap the pope.
The whole thing doesn't make a lot of sense, especially when real world logic is applied, and it isn't nearly as funny as some would have you believe.
Picked up this classic thriIller from a "little library" near my house.
Plot is a general who is near retirement is set up to be tried for a crime that he committed under direction.
So he plots revenge.
He decides to kidnap the Pope.
not sure how that is revenge, but there we are.
The story has comic twists and good characterization, but I had troubles with the 70's ideas of the author.
Terrible memories came back.
He portrays women as their breast sizes.
Hardly any personality.
And they are definitely subordinate characters.
plus a bit of racism.
Really fun read. Very much in the spirit of the goofy 70's Illuminati series with amusing dialog and increasingly improbable events. There's something appealing about the jaded cynicism of the story too, and some surprise that Ludlum has such irreverent writing in his oeuvre too. Good stuff. A great summer or airplane read!
A character you won't forgetHe had a plan that involved many characters. The plot seems unreasonable but it takes you on an amusing ride right up until the last line. Fun reading with a crazy guide.
Stupid "story", completely over-the-top, not half as funny as the author thinks it is. I quit reading it around the middle, after forcing myself to continue after the first quarter. Going to kick it out now, plus the sequel "The road to Omaha" without even trying.
Robert Ludlum, the name speaks of mystery and convoluted strategies. This book does not lack in convoluted twists of a plot. It however, is not the sort of mystery that Mr. Ludlum normally spins. In short, it is. a hoot!! I loved it.
Not your typical Ludlum thriller (hence my giving it only a 2-Star rating). I do appreciate that the author had fun writing it - and that it could have made a nice comedy with a Robert de Niro and Steve Martin in key roles. It just didn’t appeal to me as much (although I did finish it).
Es buen libro pero pudo ser mejor.Es de destacar el enorme sentido del humor de Ludlum, algo que personalmente nunca imaginé.La versión que leí fue la traducida al castellano
Just can't get past first 100 pages.
Great story. Great Author.
As always with Ludlum - rivetting, exciting, action-packed, fun.
This was not good as an audiobook. The narrator's voice was very flat and boring and I couldn't focus on the book at all. I may come back at a later date and read the book.
Politically incorrect but hilarious! worth a reread( or several)
-- ride of epic proportions in THE ROAD TO GANDOLFO!(Keep in mind the novel is set in the time it was published, the mid-1970's!) The road starts with U.S. Army Lieutenant General MacKenzie Hawkins, whose military legend began in West Point football and immediately afterward as a teenaged hero of the Battle of the Bulge in WWII...a veteran of scores of successful covert ops in the Golden Triangle afterward, another character succinctly describes that he makes John Wayne look like a pansy!
The book starts with the "pope" in his apartments about to come out before the crowds but he is being instructed in how to act like the pope so that he will not be discovered as a fake as he sings an opera.MacKenzie Hawkins is a U.S. military man who has gotten himself into trouble in China where he shot the penis off a statue.
Sam hates the plot which is to gather all of this money so that they can set up a sting to kidnap the pope- Francesco Bombalini.Meanwhile, Mac uses the money to secure Machenfeld castle and hire seven ex-military men who were forced into retirement and creates a plot known as Ground Zero to kidnap the Pope while he is driving to his home at Castel Gandolfo.
