https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/100359.Tales_of_Known_Space
What doesn't work: well, despite being able to imagine that each off-world culture would distinguish itself from home-earth culture, the nevertheless manage to be pretty white and patriarchal.
It's funny to see what the future was supposed to look like (kudos for managing to hang on to the cigarette smoking habit in increasingly challenging ways, and also, wow, fears about overpopulation ran rampant, didn't they?).Not a future I can imagine appealing to women or any minority, filled as it is with manly white dudes being mavericks.
If you want to talk about an idea, write a story that uses it." So we once again come back to the evolving standards thing.)How the Heroes Die 1/5A sequel to "Eye of an Octopus," this takes place on the first Mars colony and is an overlong and rather problematic story that follows a homophobic murderer who goes on a killing spree because another man made a pass at him.
The only thing holding it back is early Niven's trademark poor dialogue that just kind of preaches to the reader.Madness Has Its Place 5/5A Man-Kzin War story and a sequel of sorts to "The Warriors," showing how difficult it was for a pacifist humanity that had forgotten war to face the reality of an impending alien attack.
Most of the stories in this volume had previously appeared in one or another of his other collections, but they fit together well thematically as well as within the Known Space framework. It's a good introduction to his most famous universe, and a fine volume of sf in the hard sense. It also includes an interesting introduction, a nice Rick Sternbach cover that serves as a map of the settings described, and a handy bibliography.
There is one homophobic tale to be totally ashamed of writing, let alone including in a collection.
And the only women I remember being mentioned are absent - there is a request from Mars for some women to be sent to the colony so the men can have sex - and a couple of women who are at home bringing up the children.
At least that also meant that there were no sex scenes......
Full of wonderful sci fi ideas, not the mostly junk on the so called sci fi channel. Pierson Puppetteers are one of the most interesting of all aliens, they change the laws of earth to breed lucky human beings, and it only works or partially to their advantage. Human beings are descendent from an intelligent species fleeing from the galactic core. The list goes on and on. Please read and enjoy, there are many other books of this series.
Nothing world-shattering; just filling in lots of details for Niven's universe. Exactly what I was hoping for. A fun read.
Any Niven book or short story is worth reading! The very best SCI/FI writer ever!!!
What makes this particularly worth reading, IMO, is how it goes back to Niven's very earliest writings that he eventually turned into canon for his "Known Space" future history.
It makes for some pretty uninteresting first few stories of this collection (and when I say that, I mean in context of all the amazing stuff in the Known Space body of work)...
the first 4 or so stories are pretty tame, a bit boring, and not written particularly well *in comparison* to all the amazing work that will be to come.
So if you're thinking about reading one of the two shorts collections, I'd definitely suggest Neutron Star over this one...
"Tales of Known Space" is a collection of 13 short stories set in Larry Niven's future history universe called Known Space. Currently, the Known Space series comprise about a dozen books and multiple short stories. This collection, published in 1975, is an excellent, early overview of Known Space and several of its notable characters, alien races, etc. Niven writes in a concise style that readily holds one's interest. "Tales of Known Space" is a good, solid entertaining of Science Fiction by one of its best practitioners.
Meh. Early (late 1960s through early 1970s) hard science fiction: many have pretty simplistic concepts or decent ideas written in a terribly simplistic manner. I'm not the sort of guy who uses the term "patriarchal" in his reviews, so lets just say that if you want anyone other than straight white dudes portrayed sympathetically, keep looking. The last few stories were OK but not enough to save the collection for me.
Interesting stories from a master SF storyteller.
Larry Niven's Known Space series of anthologies and novels covers a vast timeline of spacefaring adventures encompassing 10,000 years.
While it was interesting to see how richly populated and developed Niven's universe is, only about half of the tales in this collection appealed to me.
Could there by a ship-devouring entity lurking in interstellar space?"Safe at Any Speed" - Our hero's test car is swallowed whole by a giant bird--with our hero inside!Overall, Tales of Known Space is an enjoyable, if not entirely inspired, anthology.

This is a collection of short stories, all set in Niven's Known Space future history and, as is almost always the case with short stories, the quality is variable.
The Known Space books and stories may be variable, but by god they're fun.I read an old paperback in early September 2010, and the book seems to be out of print in the UK.
I enjoyed this anthology of Known Space stories. I especially liked the stories "Wait it out," (set on Pluto), "At the Bottom of a Hole," (Muller discovers the truth behind the failure of a human settlement on Mars) and "The Borderland of Sol" (Julius Forward has a very dangerous weapon). I also like the timeline at the beginning of the book which sets the stories in context and the bibliography at the end.Readers who like Niven's work may like Shaun Farrell's October 2007 interview with Larry Niven at the Conjecture convention. It aired on Farrell's podcast Adventures in SciFi Publishing.
weak. I was hopeful for this book. I loved some of the ideas in a couple of his novels, but the characters were just stereotypes. Like, his aliens were unique but didn't have distinct personalities. One Kzinti is the same as another. The humans were all stereotypes, the most common one being the manipulative, but "good" spy-type of personality. But, I thought maybe character development would be less important in his short stories-he could focus more on the cool SF ideas. But, maybe Niven needs more TIME to develop his SF ideas. Nothing in this book wowed me.
A representative collection of Mr. Niven's early short fiction all set in that part of space he calls "Known Space," which includes interplanetary.space around our Sun as well as near interstellar areas. Those who appreciate "hard" science fiction will appreciate Mr. Niven's work which reflects the knowledge as we have had it regarding interplanetary space inour Solar System. The end pages of the book includes a "history" of the Known Space short and longer (novel length) works inclusive of those in this anthology and others with the locations where they were first published.
This is a collection of short stories, written in the 1960s and 1970s and all based in a universe that Niven created, generally known as "Known Space." He provides some commentary for some of the stories to help set the stage, since these are not the complete tales from that universe. Mostly classic tales of adventure, dangers of space, and clever heroes, they're a nice diversion.
The stories in this were kind of hit and miss (as you'd expect from a collection that spans so many years of a writer honing his craft). You could probably skip some of the earlier ones (which read a little bit like 40's Asimov knock-offs to me). I particularly liked Niven's unselfconscious introduction and his notes on the stories.
Short stories spanning the first part of Niven's writing career, all set in his "Known Space" future. Some of the stories were obsolete almost before they appeared in print but they all were based on extending just the frayed edge of accepted science at the time and examining the possible consequences. THoughtful, fun and cautiously optimistic.
Grand in scope. Epic in its endeavour. This collection of short stories changed my concept that a tale was limited to one person. While the science and technology is outdated, the real reason you can't put a book down is everywhere — stories on the human condition. This book should be required reading.
I'm not normally a short story reader but I make an exception for Larry Niven. This loosely connected set of stories is a good place to start. Gives you a scatter-shot overview of the Known Space setting for many of his collections and novels, and a good sense of his writing aesthetic.
Mr. Niven has an amazing ability to draw you into his life, not just his worlds, with a candid manner of writing about the happenings in his worlds and his own life.A pleasure to have been a part of it.
An interesting collection, but it didn't help me gain a good sense of the history of Niven's universe. I did appreciate Niven's unique take on John Carter of Mars though. I suppose I'm going back to his main works.
i very much enjoyed the book, again these are short stories but i don't think their are any stories in that book that i could complain about. my dad introduced me to niven's books and i certainly plain to read more.
"Neutron Star" is a better introduction to Niven's Known Space universe.
Good sci-fi! So far, so good.
A good Sc-Fi read
Science-Fiction
A must read for Niven fans! It's like a guided tour of Known Space history with storybook flashbacks included.
