https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/931868.Escape_from_the_Antarctic
My favorite bit, very near the end: The street of [Port Stanley] is about a mile and a half long.
It has the slaughterhouse at one end and the graveyard at the other.
The chief distraction is to walk from the slaughterhouse to the graveyard.
For a change one may walk from the graveyard to the slaughterhouse.Begins as a fairly dry, formal report of the efforts to reach safety and send back a ship to rescue the party members left behind on Antarctica but slowly develops into a keenly observed and wickedly human memoir of a terrifying ordeal ...
in the shack's own words. Shackleton, besides being an audacious leader, was a good writer, but also note, this is just a few pages long, so its just excerpts, but enough to whet one's freezing-to-death-in-the-Antarctic appetite. I'm not really sure why Penguin even decided to do this recent series (penguin great journeys, all super abbreviated at less than 100 pages), for screen-heads with short attention spans i suppose.
I left Ernest fighting for survival in a little boat being thrashed on the Antarctic high seas for several weeks.This is part of a 20 book issue by Penguin.
Taking the lifeboat, Shackleton and a small select crew including the carpenter who seems to be able to make anything out of anything, set back off on the icy violant seas to travel across the deadly seas several hundred miles to another tiny island, South Georgia, where there is a whaling station and hope of rescue.
This Penguin Great Journeys book is an excerpt from Shackleton's South: the Endurance Expedition.In this excerpt we join the twenty eight men on Elephant Island, after the Endurance has been crushed by ice, and the men are marooned on the island with only a couple of small boats.
The James Caird, a 20 foot ship's waler was the vessel chosen for Shackleton and the other 5 men to attempt to reach a waling station and rescue for the men who remained on Elephant Island.540 miles, in a small boat, in treacherous seas, followed by a land crossing to reach help.
It is a well enough known story, but Shackleton tells it well, and this excerpt is well selected.
This adventure of a ship-wrecked crew in the Antarctic takes place during World War I.
Ernest Shackelton's crew is trapped on a island off the Antarctic coast and he and four other crew members decide to try a an 800 mile trip to South Georgia in one of the boat's twenty foot lifeboats.
This story means even more to me because in 1997 I made the trip in a 250 foot icebreaker with 32 birdwatching companions.
The thought of making this trip in a twenty foot boat and returning to save the remaining crew defies belief.
In which Shackleton tells the story about how Frank Worsley, Tom Crean, and him are tougher than anyone else, all the while wearing Burberry and Abercrombie. How's that for gangsta? He makes 50 Cent look like a punk. The best part? After escaping from the Antarctic, he goes back to save the rest of the boys.
Read it one day when it rained. An exemplary adventure story. I know better then to take Shackleton at his word at many points in the text but, it is great fun and dramatically inspiring. I did not know the outcome of this story and was thrilled to the very end. A page turner. A nail biter. An adventure.
Another one from the Penguin Classics Great Journeys collection. I have seen pictures of Shackleton's camp and heard stories about what happened but reading it in his own words makes it much more real.
A fascinating read; I knew nothing of this expedition beforehand, and found Shackleton's writing very easy to read. The story is incredible - it's amazing that anyone survived, and Shackleton's attribution of their success to Providence doesn't seem out of place.
Was reading this book while i was in Antarctica, short and sweet and great to carry along since it's not heavy at all.
Will redefine the way you think of 'hardcore' and 'adventure'...best of all it's true!
Shackleton and his team showed the utmost endurance and perseverance. Never have a series of such blistering colds alighted such burning passions as they did here.The writing is concise and never superfluous, and the minutiae - details of foodstuffs prepared - are perfectly interwoven throughout.
I first learned about Shackleton from an impressive dramatisation of his Antarctic exhibition of 1914 which starred Kenneth Branagh.
This book consists of excerpts from Shackleton's account of the same trip, a tome entitled South:The 'Endurance' Expedition.Shackleton describes his experiences very well, capturing both the physical environment and emotional responses to his journey.
It was quite inspiring to read, you can't help but marvel at the author's stoicism, determination and ability to endure extreme discomfort.
I enjoyed reading this and am now interested in finding out more about the author.
A good introduction to Shackleton for those unfamiliar with his life.
It's 1916 and Sir Ernest Shackleton and his crew are marooned on a rocky, desolate island hundreds of miles from civilization.
With winter approaching and supplies running low, Shackleton must leave behind most of his crew as he and two other men set sail in a tiny boat for aid 800 miles away.
Shackleton's courageous trek across storm-ravaged Antarctic seas will take you completely out of your environment and make you feel as though you, too, are traveling with him on this terrifying adventure.
'Escape from the Antarctic' is just one of 19 books in Penguin's Great Journeys series, a beautifully-designed line of adventure tales published by Penguin Classics UK.
Cracking good adventure yarn of the Boy's Own Paper variety. Sturdy English chaps stranded in the Antaritic needing all the stiffness their upper-lips could muster to deal with the hoo-ha. I've put a trekiing holiday on my list of 100 things to do before I die after reading this.
This is a brief account of one portion of Shackleton's Antarctic journey. Exciting and fascinating. These dudes ate cold penguin leg for dinner and wore the same clothes for 10 months straight!
Although just an excerpt, what an incredible and interesting story. The privations the men suffer and their determination and resilience are immense. Shall have to read more.
What an adventure. A brilliant little read!
