https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11550.Usher_s_Passing
Those who had seen him and lived to tell the tale said his eyes shone like green lamps, his face was split by a cunning grin, his teeth sharpened to tiny points.”The Pumpkin Man, as if he isn’t scary enough, has a sidekick, a black panther like no other.
Is the sceptre the key to everything, or is there something much more diabolical at work in the House of Usher?I had started reading this book, and within a few pages I set it aside and pulled my Library of America Collected Tales of Poe from the shelf.
I once read a review where a guy claimed he would give his "left nut" to be able to write like that author.
I can't remember who it was, but I want to go one better:I'd be willing to give both of that guys nuts to be able to write like McCammon.
And a whole bunch of diddly-squat.Okay, so let's get to the story:The Ushers from Usherland - and that is not the title of a reality tv show about the singer Usher, whom I've almost (but I'm not there yet) forgiven for introducing Justin Bieber to the world - are rich.
This is a spine-tingling, read in the dark book.
Dare you read it?
McCammon delivers the scariest book I’ve read, ever.
It’s a mark of a great writer when they can make you feel what the characters are going through.
It was always deep January inside the Lodge, a world of icy, remote magnificence.Also, bravo to McCammon for the best use of flashbacks and dreams I’ve seen in any book.
A lesser author could just have the characters describe it, but McCammon takes you back to the time and lets you feel everything.
I implore you to read this book.
Rix Usher comes back home because his father is dying.
His brother Boone lives there with his wife Puddin'.
And stay away from the old Usher Mansion on the little island.
Rix is wanting to write a book about them and the stuff he finds out is a little nutzy cuckoo!
Anyhoo, there are many revelations in this book and it's creepy vipe was just great for a Halloween read.
There is also a little boy named New in the book and the Pumpkin Man gets his brother Nathan.
There are other weird and creepy things that go on but you can read the book and decide for yourself.
I was sort of convinced by his previous material, and thought this book was okay for the first half, but then it took off.
The family intrigue is counter balanced by foreshadowing and great atmospheric writing, including a creature hunting children in the area.As the story progresses, this quickly becomes much more than was apparent on the surface with occult themes and dark secrets throughout.What starts out as a somewhat trite Halloween creature soon develops into a highly complex, original plot teeming with creativity.This was an excellent read and the author demonstrates a skill with handling setting and character.
Cover of the 1985 Ballantine mass-market I have. But I prefer the later editions with the Rowena Morrill J. Thiesen art:My Goodreads friends keep informing me that there's something deeply, deeply wrong with me since I'm kind of "meh" on the McCammon I've read (other than Boy's Life), so I figured that if this southern gothic-seeming novel taking place in a mansion in the North Carolina mountains doesn't work for me, nothing of his will.---------------------------------------Well I just may have to rethink my stance on McCammon, because that was pretty damn good. Full review to come.
I think what stands out the most, is the fact that his endings never disappoint--they live up to the expectations set during the course of the entire storyline.
Absolutely riveting book that will remain a constant on my "favorites" shelves.*Latest reading ended October 1st, 2016 (although technically our October group read, I spent most of the past week in doctor's offices/hospitals with the kiddos, so much reading was done*What else can I add that hasn't been stated?
After 4 or 5 re-reads, this remains one of my personal favorite books of McCammon's.
Reading both versions back-to-back is a treat!
This book is so, so, so good. The story is so suspenseful. The characters are great and the background of the Ushers is so awesome. It's a hard one to put down once you get into it.
Do you know the Pumpkin Man, The one that lives at Usherland? Perhaps you know the Mountain King, Or one of his gifted offspring?Surely you know old Greediguts, He will get you if you take a shortcut!Away from The Lodge is where you must stayBecause the evil inside is not child's play. Don't go to the mansion, the House of Usher,The smell will crush you and make you suffer. That is where Walen Usher lay dying, His body decaying and putrefying. He made his fortune selling guns and armamentsAnd fi
Do you know the Pumpkin Man, The one that lives at Usherland?
Don't go to the mansion, the House of Usher,The smell will crush you and make you suffer.
He made his fortune selling guns and armamentsAnd filled his house with expensive ornaments.Will his youngest son Rix inherit his fortune?Be careful Rix, proceed with caution!Take off swiftly to your quiet room, The Malady will be upon you soon.
Do you wish to know how this tale ends?Then here is my advice to you my friends,Pick up this book without second guessing, Get lost in the world of Usher's Passing.
An ancient unsavory family, skeletons in the closet, decaying mansions, horrific deaths and disappearances, dark woods and maybe monsters!The Usher family has continued to thrive after the destruction of Roderick's branch of the family, the denouement of which was so vividly described in Edgar Allen Poe's 1839 story.
Roderick's brother Hudson moved on to Usherland, North Carolina, founding a munitions business which became wildly successful and it has made the Usher family enormously rich.
It will never be ok as long as an Usher still lives to carry the evil forward....Absolutely do not open the spoiler below until you've finished reading the book, but I couldn't resist typing the Big Reveal!
This was going to be 3 stars, but the denouement of the story was very good and unanticipated that it gets 4.
I wasn’t sure I could take a horror story seriously where the evil characters were named the Pumpkin Man and Greediguts!
I really liked the way the historical elements of the story were incorporated into the story.
The plotting was great and the gothic elements were so well done.
There was a pervasive sense of insanity and paranormal horror from the beginning.
In fact, if I keep listing all that I liked in this book, I will have to raise the rating again!
And keep you wanting more.Even though Ushers passing is the first and only book of his I've ever read in my life.
The main deal dapper of this, Is Rix Usher, He is one of the main characters.
Rix is a Horror Writer, trying to look for that one fix that will make him great again...
All those family secrets and Monster's come back once more.
But how will it affect Rix and the rest of his family.
Usher's Passing is an excellent read and will definitely be going in my 2016 top reads!
This is a book about a very dysfunctional family and the curses that they lived with.
The main focus of the story deals with Rix Usher.
Rix is a horror writer, who wants to make it on his own.
Rix is a outcast of his family and wants nothing to do with the family fortune.
Rix, is called back to Usherland, because his father is dying.
The development of the characters, help to make this a stronger story.
McCammon is a good writer and an excellent storyteller.
I highly recommend this book.
Usher's Passing inspired by  Edgar Allan Poe’s classic  The Fall of the House of Usher featuring Roderick Usher’s descendants and a much more overt supernatural element.Rix Usher is a moderately successful writer of horror fiction, having chosen this not so prosperous occupation over the family’s business of weapons manufacturing for the US military.
Usher's Passing is an entertaining read for fans of horror fiction (non-fans/general readers are unlikely to get much out of it).
I am happy for his success but have not read any of his books post  Boy's Life.
Usher's Passing is one of Robert McCammon's finest early novels. I was captivated by the story and characters, as well as the homage paid to Edgar Allan Poe in a few different ways. I also loved how McCammon chronicled the history of the Usher family. This is a fantastic and scary tale, perfect for the Halloween season.
In the beginning of Usher’s Passing an agent tells our protagonist that his newest book is a jumbled mess with too many characters and a plot that feels like it goes too many places.
The book does have quite a few characters and the plot is all over the place… and it is pretty delightful from start to finish.Like They Thirst, there were many seemingly random moments that felt almost like plot detours, but unlike the other book McCammon tied it all together by the end.
As a brief sad note though, I feel that McCammon put a bit of himself in Rix our writer protagonist.
My second time reading this gothic epic but it felt like my first. Robert McCammon did a superb job telling this darkly fantastic story. As usual, his writing is top-notch, the plot intricately woven, and his characters real and dynamic. Edgar Allan Poe would have been pleased.
Since I just read Poe’s “The Fall of the House of Usher”, I thought I would jump right into this one and am glad that I did.
McCammon takes Poe’s short story and turns it on it’s head with his own imaginings of the Usher family.Tidy Cat’s litter box of terror, eating brothers Puddin pie, soothing sounds of a satanic symphony, 50 caliber fireworks, mind control magic freaks, and canned peaches with ginger ale.Oh…and a Pumpkin Man lurking in the woods waiting to snatch up wayward children and secret government weapons of mass destruction.Yep. It’s all in there.To say there was a lot going on in this one would be an understatement.
As one famous review of Sense and Sensibility once read: "This novel is goth as fuck." I might be misremembering that, but THIS novel, by the always reliable Robert McCammon, is indeed gothic as fuck.
Inspired by a famous Poe story: check.
Which sits next to a huge, scary, lodge filled with secret passages, hidden rooms, and dead ends, and more...?
A PUMPKIN MAN?
If you need a modern Poe story, or a werewolf fighting Nazis, or an alien scorpion bounty hunter terrorizing Texans, or a post-apocalyptic good vs.
evil bloodbath morality tale - he is your man.
Stephen King recommended author.
The third story revolves around a woman named Raven (get it, do you get it?) Dunstan who is looking into the disappearances of children near Usherland and also what are is the Usher family going to do when the patriarch Walen Usher passes away.I think if McCammmon had stuck with one of these three to tell the story maybe it would have worked better.
Going home and seeing his family and beloved family servants has him wondering constantly if being in charge of the Usher billions would really be a bad thing.Some of the secondary characters felt a little more developed, such as Edwin fared better in this book.
My first venture into McCammon and I really enjoyed it. The beginning part with Poe was a great touch. Looks like I'll have to find more of his work!!!
I won't say that this stands up to Swan Song or Boys Life, his classics, but this was definitely a great book from an author who, at the time, was branded a horror writer, and was finally finding his voice and stretching his wings.
Then it was around the time Mystery Walk came out (which I've yet to read) was when the Robert we know now, started to bloom.
The more I hate characters, the better I love the book.
This books takes us back to the 1800s many times, to hear anecdotes about various Usher adventures.
The quality of his work never ceases to amaze me ...
Usher's Passing tells the tale of the famous Usher family from Edgar Allen Poe's work ...
The story centers around the Usher family living in the mountains of North Carolina in 'modern' time (the book came out in the 80s, but it doesn't feel all that dated) and follows several different characters, primarily focusing on one of the Usher children (as an adult), a newspaper reporter, and a young (teen) mountain boy.
McCammon pulls everything together so effectively (and totally surprising me with his various 'reveals' at the end) that I was sorry when the book finally ended.Recommended.
Un gran bel racconto di orrore gotico che parte dall'idea iniziale che la famiglia Usher, descritta da Edgar Allan Poe nel suo stupendo "La caduta della casa degli Usher", fortunatamente presente ad inizio volume e che é stato un vero piacere rileggere dopo piú di vent'anni, sia esistita realmente.
Usher’s Passing seems like essential Halloween reading, having been written and published at the height of the ‘80s horror boom.
Usher’s Passing is anything but scary or suspenseful.Based on Edgar Allan Poe’s “The Fall of the House of Usher,” (a story I’ve admittedly never liked) this novel is McCammon’s imagineering of the Usher family: their past, their scandals, their secrecy.
I feel like McCammon tried to cram too much into this, with the missing children and reporter trying to get her scoop and Usher family drama.
I'm not sure how McCammon came up with all of this from reading Poe's story, but I have to give him tons of credit for his imagination as he really crafted a great story here.The twists and turns never stopped coming, and that ending was not predictable at all.
Well, part of it was simply from reading the original Poe story, but the big revelations were not.
But overall this was a good one.McCammon did such a good job on fleshing out the Usher family history at times it felt like non-fiction, and that really added a great element to the story.I'm new to McCammon, but I'll be checking out more of his work for sure.
Being a fan of Edgar Allen Poe all my life, I was skeptical about reading a following up story by another author regarding the Fall of the House of Usher. This story will knock your socks off!!!! Listed as one of my top favorites ever.
A very odd book. So many different people and strange things going on, but it all pulls together at the end and everything is explained.
I wanna add a half star upon reread.this is a rich, nuanced twist on The(in)famous Usber clan.
