https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3253215-an-illustrated-life
Danny Gregory curated this collection of excerpts from various artists’ journals, artists from all over the world.
We got insights into the artists as they share their art, their sketches, their works in progress, their thinking on the page in visual form.
So everyone does it differently, of course.
It’s mixed media, it’s collage, it’s visual playground.
Oh, and it’s from these artists on the road, too, done while traveling, so it’s a view of places, too, on how to convery their experience of places.
This is based on an exhibition at the Brooklyn Art Library.
Gorgeous and inspirational.
If I were smart, I would start a business making spiral-bound sketchbooks with high-quality paper for artists.
A frequent complaint among artists in this book is that it’s impossible to find really good, useful sketchbooks.
Most of the stories focus on the use of sketchbooks in artists personal and professional lives, and how each artist got started in drawing.
And each artist shares their favorite tools: namedropping pens, sketchbooks and paper manufacturers is borderline advertising and takes the focus away from the beauty and inspiration of creative work.
I knew too, that not all the styles of journalling or sketching/drawing would appeal to me, and I thought there would be more of the unappealing genres that I could not justify getting the book.
When favourable reviews started coming through from friends and artists on the internet I was impressed enough to want to look at the book and decide for myself.
That in itself is educational and reason enough for buying the book.The book is more cohesive than I thought it would be because Danny's style of his interviews add a continuity to each section of featured artists.
While there are some really lovely examples, such as those of Jane LaFazio and Gay Kreger, and a few others, mostly women, I found that too many of the sketchbooks were simply ugly juvenile cartoons, mostly by men.
I had the desire to use sticky notes and calculate how many were illustrations and how many these cartoons and how many by men and how many by women.
And I decided I really didnt want to spend the time.
I will go back and tag the ones I want to find easily again, but for now the book is on the shelf and not the coffee table.
It is always interesting to me to see how other artist's think and work and there is no better way to do that than to be allowed to peer into their sketch journals.
I just wish the artists that were chosen were a little more interesting.
That being said, there are some real gems in here, like James Jean, Bryce Wymer and of course, Robert Crumb.
It was definitely worth a peruse though and there really is not much reading involved but more looking.
I am sure I will look through this again when I am feeling like I need some motivation and inspiration.
3.5 stars. Good look at the journals/sketchbooks of 50 different artistically minded people, including (in their own words) how long they've been keeping a journal, why they keep up the habit, and their preferred materials.
I wonderful little book about the sketchbooks of artists and writers many of us love.
It's fatal flaw however is the lack of humility it gives the subject matter as the author treats each subject as if they sketchbooks are sacred texts.
The reality that most won't admit is that these works were created to show people, and those that weren't won't be seen.
Artists are fickle and vain and very strategic in the way they let people view their work especially their notebooks.
Where this book succeeds it also fails perpetuating the myth that artists only ever produce good work.
The reason I rated it a 4 rather then a 5 is because it seemed full of professional designers who were in a ways showing off.
A couple of nuggets I got were, alternative styles of drawing are from reality and from imagination.
One requires drawing in public, in the wild and the other is more private and is usually done in the studio.
Some fill the entire page with a single drawing and some leave lots of white space.
I guess I should have known that this book was full of professionals by the subtitle "Drawing Inspiration From The Private Sketchbooks Of Artists, Illustrators And Designers".
It's a relief that even many of these very talented artists are afraid of a blank page!
There's even a museum devoted to them (the Sketchbook Project collection in the Brooklyn Art Library).
Massively mixed media, notation and journaling, collage, panel framing are just a few of the spaces in which they've showed you can play.I also recommend "An Illustrated Journey: Inspiration From the Private Art Journals of Traveling Artists, Illustrators and Designers," which takes the sketchbook on the road.
"The Sketchbook Project World Tour," assembled from above-mentioned collection at the Brooklyn Art Library, has a more international (and non-professional-artist) focus, with amazing submissions from every continent except Antartica.
With as many varying personalities, ideas and "art," it was a little daunting to continually read for longer than 15 minutes.
The nice thing about featuring so many artists is that if you didn't like one you could move right onto the next.I wish the format was a little larger so the images and text could be easier to view and read.
I think it's a great coffee table book to pick up every now and again.
It would certainly make a great gift to aspiring artists or to anyone who enjoys art or its process.
I'm a big fan of Danny Gregory, a real cheerleader encouraging people to stop being so hard on themselves and get out there and sketch.
His previous books, Creative License and Everyday Matters have inspired hundreds of folks.
This book is different.
It's a collection of sketchbooks from illustrators, everyone from R.
There is an interview and a selection of pages from that person's sketch books.
It's a beautiful and inspiring collection.
My only gripe is that some of the reproduced pages are very small, so small that I couldn't read the entries even with a magnifying glass.
It is true that it is not purely a Danny Gregory book, but as long as you don't go into the book thinking it is going to be purely Danny, it's a wonderful read.
I loved having a book full of all these artists and pages of their sketchbooks.
I also like that we get to read the artists' thoughts and ideas about their own art and sketchbooks.
I like to flip through this book and read in small sections.
I did read the whole thing though, but in small segments so I could focus on just one artist and their work at a time.
I loved reading this, especially while I was in a drawing class.
Not a book to pick up and read, but more for perusing, to read an interview at a time. A good source of inspiration, especially for those who like to peek into the more secret lives of artists.A bit of a downer in a sense that almost all of these sketchbooks are amazing on their own - seems that many artists suffer from a perfectionist predilection for making everything look good all the time. It was refreshing to see the few sketchbooks that were kind of crappy (LIKE MINE).
It’s interesting to see how each artist views the sketchbook as a medium. The texts are explanations by each artist of how they work and why they keep a sketchbook. Some aren’t that interesting, but it works as a glimpse into a wide array of creative minds. It made me want to start my own sketchbook.
If you like looking through other artists' sketchbooks, then this is the book for you. 266 pages, 50 artists, sketches and text - wonderful! I'm actually still working my way through it, because I can only pore over two or three artists at a time before I have to set the book down and think over it for a while.
I love seeing people's illustrated journals! My favorites are the ink sketches of cityscapes with splashes of watercolor. Also the ones that look like they're from children's picture books. Wish I could draw like that...
I've been listening to Danny's podcast, in which he interviews different artists featured in this book. It's got me very excited for the book's publication.
A great collection of pages from artiists' sketchbooks. it was interesting to not only see some pages but to read about how and where they use their sketchbook. very nice!
This book is not good really boring for me
I bought „An Illustrated Life“ because of the cover and I wasn't disappointed!It can be used as workbook, for inspiration or just to make yourself happy while flipping through.
It’s not a book you read in one piece , but to have a look in it, if you get stuck in your creative progress.
You get a glimpse to the creative imaginations of 50 top illustrators.
You can see some of their working places, and the way the artists developed ideas in their journals.
Some are mind- doodling, some are very precisely worked out.
I recommend this book to all who are interested in drawing and modern artists.
Я в буквальном смысле только что закончила знакомство с замечательной книгой Дэнни Грегори. Именно знакомство, ведь это целый сборник историй и скетчбуков, не похожих один на другой.Мне будет трудно представить любую другую книгу, которая была бы столь вдохновляющей и мотивирующей на свершения и эксперименты.Спасибо Дэнни Грегори за возможность узнать истории талантливых людей!
Found this at the library and I just love it. I've been trying to figure out how to be creative in my life, how to make some kind of art and this book was totally inspirational. You get a peak into the illustrated journals of many artists. I love looking at quirky drawings and reading about how the artists approach informal sketching that's really only for them was very interesting.
I loved this book! I have always dabbled in artistic endeavors, but never kept a sketch book...now I do. I loved seeing all the different styles and reading over and over that you should just draw and not stress over it too much...and that it's okay to miss days and it's okay if it isn't perfect, just draw! So, I will :-) ♡ Thank you, Danny Gregory!
If I was an artist, I think it would be interesting. I read it because it was recommended as a creative resource. My artistry lies in photography. There were a few illustrations I found interesting, but most were more about people who can draw and paint.
As with any collection, this was a pretty mixed bag, and it was more interesting to read and see some artists than others. But overall it was inspiring!
Great in small doses. Inspiring to see what artists are doing. I think I need to look at more books from Danny Gregory.
geweldig boek ter inspiratie en motivatie!
Borrowed from local library. It was nice to flick through and get some ideas, but otherwise not helpful to improve skills or techniques.
Butch BelairBill Brown – Dream WhipPaola GaviriaTom KaneChris Ware
