https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17349203-fortunately-the-milk
:( I was bored, so Mum let me borrow her Kindle to read a book that was making her laugh, called, ‘Fortunately, the Milk…’ by Neil Gaiman with illustrations by Chris Riddell.
Mum said I could stay on the iPad if I wanted to draw a picture of the writer reading the book.
(you can see the images at: http://book-walrus.com/book-review-fo...)Everyone should read this book.
:) ) (you can see the images at: http://book-walrus.com/book-review-fo...One day I would like to write books as good as ‘Fortunately, The Milk…’ and draw pictures as good as this too.
(A-) 83% | Very GoodNotes: Gaiman, like a chef savant boldly tossing supposedly dissonant ingredients into a pot, makes a heck of a tasty stew.
It was a rainy morning and I felt like reading Neil's new book 'Fortunately, the Milk'.
"Do you have Neil Gaiman's new book, 'Fortunately, the Milk'?"She rolled her eyes so far back that I thought for a moment she was inspecting her own sinus cavities.
It was there that I slipped in the wet and thought that this was too Harry Potter for my liking.When I came to I was in a dark space with a shrunken man looking a me while holding a candlestick Wee Willy Winkie style.
I hate when they do that!""Well it would expedite this review if you had a copy of Neil Gaiman's new book 'Fortunately, the Milk' that I could read very quickly.
A quirky, weird, and fun book! I wouldn't expect anything less from Neil Gaiman. :P
Fortunately, I read this book!  HOW MUCH FUN AN HOUR CAN BE Quite funny, entertaining and it's a really quick read.What else can you ask?I did it on an hour......And for that hour I had such wonderful time. In an hour I was lost in time, meeting fantastic characters and laughing. PERFECT COLLABORATIVE TEAM If you decide to read it, keep in mind that it's a short story oriented for children, so please, don't harm the rating of this sweet book just because you were expecting "Neil Gaiman, the gre
If you decide to read it, keep in mind that it's a short story oriented for children, so please, don't harm the rating of this sweet book just because you were expecting "Neil Gaiman, the great mind behind Sandman and American Gods".
He is not here......BUT......You will find "Neil Gaiman, the wonderful dad that wrote a story to entertain for an hour to his children and the children of all the world." Along with Neil Gaiman, in here you will find the delicious art of Scottie Young, talented artist famous for his work on the Marvel's graphic novel adaptations of the OZ books by L.
Neil Gaiman’s latest book, “Fortunately The Milk” is a boisterous tale of an extraordinary adventure, time travel and milk.
Gaiman’s tale narrated by a boy whose mother is away on a business trip, and whose father had to go out to the corner store for a pint of milk for the cereal and his tea.
Dad takes an unconscionably long time getting the milk, and when he returns, the narrator and his little sister accuse Dad of having stopped to gossip at the store.
For all the mad-cappery, there's a fair bit of attention here to an internally consistent time-travel story, with all the fun that implies.
I listened to this on audiobook during a car trip with my oldest boy, (Oot, Age 4.5).We both really enjoyed it. Though didn't get to see the illustrations, we got to hear Neil himself reading it, and he's a very, very good narrator. If you've never heard him reading his own stuff, you're really missing out.
Maybe cause of the time traveling dinosaurs, unicorns, wumpires and aliens.For such a decidedly whimsical book,  it was unexpectedly fabulous.
Two kids are left home alone with dad for a weekend while scientist-mom is at a conference (unexpectedly great reason for mom to be gone for the week!).
Only, when it comes time for breakfast...the kids discover that there's no milk for their cereal.Their dad bravely ventures forth to pick up some from the corner store...and he's gone an awfully long time.
So long that the kids demand an explanation when he returns.
And, their dad opens his mouth...and this wonderful tale spills out.
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend. A quirky tale of time travelling dinosaurs, blood sucking wumpires (yes, wumpires) and enthusiastic pirates, made even more amusing by an abundance of winsome illustrations.
Crazy but sweet!This is an excellent book to read aloud to 4th grade kids who are in the process of developing a sense for the absurdities of life.
Fortunately, the milk was out - otherwise a couple of children would have missed out on aliens, pirates, Splod and various mind-boggling problems that usually occur when you travel back and forth in time with a dinosaur professor.Update: The fourth grade kids are now Grade 8 students (that is unbelievable enough - they must have opened that door that let in the time-space-continuum!), and they still refer to the time when I read "Fortunately the milk..." aloud to the class.
I think author has a great love for milk.
:)This book is about a father who buys milk for his children.
Father is telling his children the story of how he gets back to present-time in the whole book.
lol!My favourite scene in book was when the Father met the king of Volcanos.
(view spoiler)[In the ending, children felt that their father was lying about his adventures as they remembered the similarities between their father's story and their paintings.
(hide spoiler)]Regardless, it is a delightful read.
He looked like he remembered that, without milk, he couldn’t have his tea.
Prava, pravcata dečija knjiga. Ako niste u stanju da se vratite u najbezbrižnije godine svog detinjstva, onda čitajte ovu knjižicu na ličnu odgovornost. Ilustracije su fantastične, kao i uvek kada Kris Ridl umeša svoje prste u Gejmenove specijalitete. Nisam pametna da li dam 4 ili 5 zvezdica, a ovaj smotani Goodreads još uvek nam ne da koristimo pola zvezdaje, pa neka bude 4.
Incredible!Mermaid with legsQueen of the piratesThis one's a wonderfully fun and enjoyable read! Timeless tale of time!! Neil Gaiman  never disappoints.***"It’s important for people to tell you what side they are on and why, and whether they might be biased. A declaration of members’ interests, of a sort. So, I am going to be talking to you about reading. I’m going to tell you that libraries are important. I’m going to suggest that reading fiction, that reading for pleasure, is one of the most i
Incredible!Mermaid with legsQueen of the piratesThis one's a wonderfully fun and enjoyable read!
never disappoints.***"It’s important for people to tell you what side they are on and why, and whether they might be biased.
So, I am going to be talking to you about reading.
I’m going to tell you that libraries are important.
I’m going to suggest that reading fiction, that reading for pleasure, is one of the most important things one can do.
I’m going to make an impassioned plea for people to understand what libraries and librarians are, and to preserve both of these things."~ Neil Gaiman***
Cooperation between Neil Gaiman and Chris Riddell always results in something special. This is children's book but it's one that brings back child in me (which to be honest isn't that deeply buried). I had wide grin through out whole reading.
Savrsena knjiga za malisane napisana sa puno maste i prelepim crtezima.Preporuka.
You have to hear this highflying, alien abduction, will-the-milk-make-it-home-in-time tale and spin on what happened to me on the way to the store!
Only Gaiman could somehow, some way squeeze piranhas into a pop-out-to-the-corner-store-to-get-milk tale.
Energy, wonder, and humor bring Dad’s courage, fun, and quick thinking to life on the page.
I loved how each noise, bellow, and word sounded and felt rolling off my tongue.
Words that will spark a reader’s imagination and maybe even some research—Are piranhas only found in fresh water?
:)A fun recommended read for any and all adventurers and time traveling fans.
And as always—a must read for Gaiman fans!
His adventure is filled with hot air balloons, dinosaurs, aliens, ponies, vampires and a talking volcano???Gaiman could write anything – I mean absolutely ANYTHING and I would read it, so when this definitely-written-for-kids children’s novel popped up on a Gaiman stalking .
errrr, I mean Gaiman absolutely-normal-nothing-to-see-here-folks fan page, I knew I had to read it right away.
I was planning to pick this up for myself anyway, but I needed a book to keep the smallest person who lives in my house interested during mandatory reading time so I rushed straight to the library.
It's hard for me to say that because I want to like Neil Gaiman.
It's an okay book.
It seems forced and quickly told, like Neil was at a party telling this story and someone wrote it down and published it without any real editorial input.
I'm sure Gaiman fans will wax poetically about the story's grand and imaginative plot.
It's an okay story.
But it isn't something I would actively promote.Maybe what I wanted from this story was more development, maybe (like everything with Gaiman) I have this grand idea of what he "should" write, I can't appreciate what he actually writes.
If Bruce Springsteen had written this book, it would have gone something like this:Got a wife and kids in Baltimore, Jack.I went out for a ride some milk, and I never went back.Fortunately, he didn't write it.
Neil Gaiman did.
It's a merry old time, greatly enhanced by Skottie Young's illustrations.My favorite part was when it is revealed that Dad, (view spoiler)[ in a sneaky Keyser Söze-like move, has gleaned all his inspiration from items in the kitchen.
(hide spoiler)]Here's wishing all kids bowls full of Toastios, and a dad who's willing to bend the truth in the name of entertainment.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
اینو با ستایش و بهداد و بهنام خریدم، باغ کتاب تهران.
مینویسم که یادم بمونه چه روز خوبی بود کنار این آدما.
من خیلی نیل گیمن رو دوست دارم.
از خوشبختانه شیر هم خوشم اومد، اما نه اونقدی که انتظارش رو داشتم!
بهنظرم یه جاهایی داستان زیادی ساده گرفته شده بود.
درعین اینکه یه جاهایی خندهدار بود.
با کارهای دیگۀ گیمن فرق داشت اما بازم نیل گیمنطور بود.
:دی من مال نشر پریانش رو خوندم، نه این یکی رو.
یه چیز ساده رو مثل قصههای قدیمی ایرانی پر و بال داده بود و سنجاق شدنش به اتفاقات بانمک و هوشمندانه بود.چقدرم ا
می‌نویسم که یادم بمونه چه روز خوبی بود کنار این آدما.
من خیلی نیل گیمن رو دوست دارم.
از خوشبختانه شیر هم خوشم اومد، اما نه اونقدی که انتظارش رو داشتم!
به‌نظرم یه جاهایی داستان زیادی ساده گرفته شده بود.
درعین اینکه یه جاهایی خنده‌دار بود.
با کارهای دیگۀ گیمن فرق داشت اما بازم نیل گیمن‌طور بود.
:دی من مال نشر پریانش رو خوندم، نه این یکی رو.
یه چیز ساده رو مثل قصه‌های قدیمی ایرانی پر و بال داده بود و سنجاق شدنش به اتفاقات بانمک و هوشمندانه بود.چقدرم اسمش رو دوست دارم.
خیلی باحال بود.
;-)What a magnificent evening.The story is Gaiman's attempt to write a book that casts fathers in a positive light.
the father as the hero of the day, does it work?Yes and no.
Yes, as it's a pretty funny children's book full of zany characters and a ludicrous plot, involving pirates, time travel, aliens, dinosaurs, religion, volcanoes, hot air balloons and milk.
Adults are likely to get a lot more out of it than kids.
As the funny compère stated at the start of the show - "This is a children's book you know?
হা হা হা ভালই মজা পেলাম ভিননধরমী একটা উপনযাসিকা পড়ে । বলা যায় লমবা লমবা চাপাবাজির কষেতরে আমাদের বঙগের কিংবদনতীসম লেখক পরেমেনদর মিতরকে পরায় দৌড় করিয়ে ছেড়েছেন নীল গেইমান ! এক বাবা ছেলেমেয়েদের সকালের নাসতা জনয দুধ কিনতে বের হয়ে অনেক দেরি করে ফিরেন, যদিও ছেলেমেয়ে দুজন ঠিকই আনদাজ করে নিয়েছে বাবা নিশচয়ই তার কোন পরিচিত মানুষের সাথে গলপে মজে যাওয়ায় এই দেরি হয়েছে, কিনতু তাদের বাবা শোনালেন দুধ কিনে ফেরা পথে তাঁর অতযাশচরয ঘটনাবহুল এক অযাডভেঞচারের কাহিনী, যাতে এলিয়েন-ডায়নোসর-জলদসযু-আদিবাসী-ভযামপায়ার-রাকষুসে
হা হা হা ভালই মজা পেলাম ভিন্নধর্মী একটা উপন্যাসিকা পড়ে । বলা যায় লম্বা লম্বা চাপাবাজির ক্ষেত্রে আমাদের বঙ্গের কিংবদন্তীসম লেখক প্রেমেন্দ্র মিত্রকে প্রায় দৌড় করিয়ে ছেড়েছেন নীল গেইমান !
এক বাবা ছেলেমেয়েদের সকালের নাস্তা জন্য দুধ কিনতে বের হয়ে অনেক দেরি করে ফিরেন, যদিও ছেলেমেয়ে দুজন ঠিকই আন্দাজ করে নিয়েছে বাবা নিশ্চয়ই তার কোন পরিচিত মানুষের সাথে গল্পে মজে যাওয়ায় এই দেরি হয়েছে, কিন্তু তাদের বাবা শোনালেন দুধ কিনে ফেরা পথে তাঁর অত্যাশ্চর্য ঘটনাবহুল এক অ্যাডভেঞ্চারের কাহিনী, যাতে এলিয়েন-ডায়নোসর-জলদস্যু-আদিবাসী-ভ্যাম্পায়ার-রাক্ষুসে পিরানহা-টাইমট্র্যাভেল-মহাজাগতিক স্পেসশিপ-হটএয়ার বেলুন-আগ্নেয়গিরি-সমুদ্র...
কি নেই ?!
Ja sam, nažalost, bila ozbiljna i sa svojih šest i uvijek mi je nedostajalo mašte.
Iz već navedenih razloga bila sam malo skeptična, ali nije bilo teško, već na prvi pogled, zaljubiti se u samu naslovnicu.
Takođe, siže na koricama je neizbježno zainteresovao mamu troje male djece.Nakon pretjerane uvertire, red je podijeliti i utiske :) Nekoliko puta sam se baš slatko nasmijala, ali onako iskreno, od srca.
Divno je bilo biti dio jednog sasvim običnog dana, a istovremeno jednog sasvim drugačijeg, bogatog svijeta mašte.
Riječ ću morati ponavljati nekoliko puta ne bih li je zapamtila :)Rekoh li da su me ilustracije fascinirale?
Well I'm forty and some loose change years of age and I never, ever thought I'd be reading children's books again.
I can't even remember reading them when I was a kid but Neil Gaimans 'are but aren't reeeeaaaally' children's books are an absolute delight, so much so, that I've bought all of them.
There's gentle murmurs and mutters of darkness within and Gaiman is a master wordsmith that wraps you up in his stories, and its impossible to get out until the very end.Fortunately, the Milk sees Father return slightly late from the shop with the vital lifesaving breakfast cereal milk and armed with legendary excuses of alien worlds and time travel.
A thoroughly entertaining guilty pleasure that's kinda hidden from everyone who matters.Also posted at http://paulnelson.booklikes.com/post/...
We thoroughly enjoyed this, a time travel book for kids. It feels like Neil Gaiman once got himself in a bit of bother with his kids and needed an excuse to get himself out of trouble. The illustrations were wonderful, something to look at on each page, the main character looking like the author really helps. If you like books with dinosaurs, pirates, aliens, human sacrifices and time travel, then this book is for you.PS: If you like this and want another time travel book for kids then check out Terry: The Time Travelling Tortoise ;)
Well, that was short and entertaining :)
Ameii isso aqui!! Ri alto com as coisas malucas que ele fala e é uma história que com certeza gostaria com contar pros meus filhos! O meu é ilustrado pelo Chris Riddel, meu favorito entre os ilustradores do Neil Gaiman. Que leitura deliciosa!Falei mais sobre esse livro e um pouco das edições Americana e Britânica (e do audiobook narrado pelo Neil) no meu video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4zPtC...
“You have your milk,” he said. “Where there is milk, there is hope.”Nail Gaiman and Chris Riddell again prove that they are a perfect combination of an author and an illustrator. The story, alone, is quite good, but when it is combined with amazing illustrations done by Riddell, it truly comes to life. A short, but fun and exciting story, that reminded me why Gaiman is one of my favorite authors.
That was so much fun! I highly, highly recommend getting the edition illustrated by Chris Riddell. It makes the reading experience so much better! I thought this was such a fun childrens' book, and Neal never fails to impress me. Can't wait to read more works by him.
Delightful, fun and a super quick read. I adored the artwork. This book is perfect for a readathon. :)
