https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/181206.The_80_20_Principle
I give it five out of five but here's the deal. I think the book itself follows the 80/20 rule. 20% of the book gives you 80% of the value. Do this: Read a short definition of the 80/20 rule on the web. Skip to chapter 9 and begin reading the book. Stop when you finish chapter 11. Read 13 and then skim the rest of the book.So if you do that the book is 5 out of 5 stars and if you read the whole thing I'd give it like 2.5 stars.
It took me reading it a couple times to grasp the simplicity and life-altering implications of the principle.
The time saved and gained will blow your mind.The amazing thing is that the studies in this book show the principle working in just about every possible scenario.
Try the following for a few weeks and the time in your life will never be the same.5 ways to apply the 80/20 Principle to enhance your life:1.
Do the 20% of your work that leads to 80% of your results: Track all the time you spend on projects each hour of each day for a week.
You'd think that someone who champions efficiency would write a book that wasn't so full of repetition and assumptions.Just read the summary. Do that, and you get 95% of the book's benefit in only 0.01% of the time! I think Koch would be proud.
It shows how to apply the 80/20 Principle to your personal and professional life in order to work less, earn more, enjoy more, and achieve more.
Because of scale, big and simple is best in theory; in practice, small businesses tend to be simpler.• Focus on your competitive advantage, and outsource everything else.• Corollary: the 50/5 Principle: the bottom 50% of customers, products, and suppliers make up only 5% of revenue and profits.Part 3: Work Less, Earn and Enjoy More• 80% of achievement and happiness takes place in 20% of time.• Money not spent today can be saved and invested for future use, but happiness not used today doesn’t carry forward.
For those proclaiming this book to be life-saver, you will be in for a shock to know that what this book expounds is but only one among gazillion other data analysis methods.
What the author has expounded in this book is that ‘a little of something causes so much of everything” or rather has stamped an approval (it was not his original idea, remember, only the name “80/20 principle” that is his.
Only, to lean on this book to be your career saver would not be a sound idea.
Meh.Worth rereadingQuotes:"The 80/20 Principle asserts that a minority of cause, input, or effort usually lead to a majority of the results, outputs, or rewards.""The entrepreneur shifts economic resources out of an area of lower productivity into an area of higher productivity." [J-B Say:]"Celebrate exceptional productivity, rather than raise average efforts.
Things for which it is now or never""Work out what you want from life.""10 golden rules for career success:1.
80% results from 20% effort.
I got it before reading this book.
Nothing new was shared, there's not really much more to it than that.I read 100 pages of un-credited examples, made up company names and far reaching generalizations.
The point was made through the title alone.
I skimmed the last half of the book hoping something would catch my eye, and it did, unless I started reading the same old thing.
"many people..." without credit to any sort of study.
"A manufacturing company used this ...".
What sort of industry?
Great title, un necessary body of text.
The down side to this book is that it could be summed up in one Harvard Business Review article and any self respecting smart person would get the point pretty quickly and be able to use it tomorrow.
No, I had several people look at this too and it just seems that they didn't do a good job editing.
The unreasonable man persists in trying to adapt the world to himself" - George Bernard Shaw- - The rest are from the Author himself:"Ambition is not served by bustle and busyness" "Happiness is not equal to money.
Книга после прочтения сразу вошла в мой ТОП50 лучших книг. Жалко, что не прочитал её раньше. До многих вещей, которые есть в книге, доходил долго сам годами. И есть моменты над которыми мне ещё надо поработать.
The book ultimately proves its own theory.
20% of the book comprises about 80% of the content.
The rest is repetition.Some interesting arguments are made.
This book is definitely more business minded, though I would say it’s still worth a read for anyone looking to make a time revolution at home.
I’m a bit skeptical if this theory is truly relevant to ALL jobs.
As it’s written from a white, male perspective, I’m also wondering how the theory applies to working mothers (especially single working mothers) and professionals of colour.
another great book from Richard Koch on 80/20 principle discovered by Paretto and how it actually applies in the business, personal life and investments. While almost everybody knows about the principle it is not that easy to be apply the non-linear thinking and focus on the most important 1-20% and omit the remains. The book teaches what can be done specifically to apply the principle. Some parts intersects with "Simplify!" book.
Unfortunately an illustration of its own principle: 20% valuable content with a lot of padding and assumptions.Kudos to Koch for brave honesty in the end section discussing critiques of the original edition – even printing some negative reviews in full – and responding to them.
Some interesting ideas and some claims out of proportion in my humble opinion. I let you find out what is what for yourself.
The central premise is that there is likely a huge imbalance in the effectiveness of your actions (for example, 20% of what you do may be producing 80% of your results) and you should learn what that 20% is - what it tells you about what you are best suited to do - and double and triple down.
A lot of the concepts that were dealt with were a bit surprising and not the easiest to grasp --- and I don't know that the author necessarily did the best job of explaining.

This book presents the theory of imbalance.
Once you get acquainted with the general idea, it should be easy for you to spot the correlation between cause and effect in anything you do.
Whether you will find the book insightful and its ideas relevant will greatly depend on the way you read.
True, the book gets quite repetitive at times so I reckon that you use the very same approach to reading it that the book itself recommends.
Get the principle and skip to the chapters that are relevant to you.
The time revolution one and the one on business allies/friends are a must read.
در این کتاب قانون 80/20 مورد بررسی و مطالعه قرار می گیرد. هسته اصلی این قانون بهره مندی 80 درصدی از 20 درصد منابع اختصاص داده شده می باشد. این کتاب همین نکته ساده را در چند صد صفحه به کرات با ذکر مثال بیان می کند. خلاصه کتاب را به جای خواندن تمام آن پیشنهاد می کنم.
My presumption with a title like The 80/20 Principle we would delve more into the defining and measuring aspects of productivity rather than hearing about how to improve topics with no measurable outcome.
A good example is much of the later chapters revolved around "happiness" but provided no insight on how to measure if you were 80% happier...In short I was hoping for a more analytical approach of measuring personal topics.
Even though I was not a fan of The 80/20 Principle, there were a few little gems in the pages and I did like the author's narration of the book.
I agree with 80/20 as a short-term philosophy to make money or get ahead in business or at work.
Now the only movies that get made are super hero, sci-fi, and animation.
I have been to the movies only once in the past 5 years because there has literally been nothing to see.
The pure 80/20 strategist would point out that the change in movie offerings has made for better television which is where audiences (and actors) must turn for good storytelling carried out my humans.
But something tells me I will be a short-term convert.
The book is convincing and super practical! It doesn't have the commanding voice telling the readers "you have to do this or that in order to be successful/happy" as commonly seen in most of the other self-help books; instead, "The 80/20 Principle" gives suggestions and very meticulous steps for us to self-actualize most effectively. There are also many wonderful questions and thought-provoking exercises to guide the readers. From now on, this is one of my reading holy grails to re-read and re-learn.
Không thể đọc hết nổi. Chắc chỉ đọc summary là đủ rồi.
Ideas from this book help you become a happy minded person. It makes you concentrate on what really matters in your life and business. Vital few in your life really will help you to grow.
Хорошо описан принцип 80/20, не только с привычной для меня точки зрения цифр, особенно с точки зрения продаж в компании, я давно уже применял принцип Парето в этой части деятельности. Особенно полезно было зайти с этим принципом в личную жизнь, другие области жизни и деятельности. Меня книга заставила задуматься, много рефлексировать и осмысливать как и куда расходовать силы и энергию.
By trying to understand this inequality, as opposed to bemoaning it's existence, you can profit more in the work place and in private life.The new expanded edition I think does a great job of expounding on key criticisms.
Koch, like most geniuses, is eccentric and has his odder passages, but I think anyone looking to get more out of life should read this book.
Koch seems earnest and his examples do a great job of illustrating when people are wasting time.For more practical advice on how to apply 80/20 I'd highly recommend picking up The 4 Hour Work Week as well.
I like the idea of it: great concept, great title.
Steers you away from perfectionism, stops from getting lost in the details, done is better than perfect, some is better than none.
Does that sound like a platitude?
Much as the 80/20 book.
Vacuous and repetitive.
If you want to read it, I advise to use the advertised principle and skim through the 20% of it.
The remaining 80% won't bring any insights.
And guess what?
The 80-20 split is very arbitrary, the author openly admits as much.
Making me question the viability of it all.
Read the title, read the blurb.
The concept of the 80/20 principle was an interesting one and the ways he supported this principle were interesting. But as he repeated his point over and over again I wanted to smack myself. He could have packed the same analysis in 50% the book.Summary: It's OK, but rather repetitive and long-winded at times. The basic point is good and useful: different activities give different value, so it can be useful to focus on the stuff that is most useful and stop doing the inefficient/ineffective ones.
I wanted a lot more from this book, which was recommended to me by my sleep dr. It had some good reminders in it, but I feel like I'm already doing a lot of the principles. However, it was a good reminder to slow down and that you can achieve a lot without being busy and overexerting oneself. Also a good reminder to cut a lot of unnecessary crap.Hmmm, maybe it was more useful to me than I thought.
I read most of this book around 2004 or 2005 I think. I just picked it up and finished it off. It has some good insights, particularly in the first 3/4 of the book. I wasn't necessarily reading it for "business" but life/church advice. It's a simple concept that can be easily summed up, so I recommend "panning for gold" on this one.
There is a lot to absorb from this book in terms of effective productiveness, to be selective and not exhaustive, work less, earn and enjoy..the benign link of time, its effective usage..various modes of restoring happiness and much more.
What did I learn?How to have more success in:Career Work less but produce moreEarn moreEnjoy more Have better relationships by focusing on them How to be lazily intelligent To have better eqShort cut for happiness: maximize controlSimplicity, simple is beautiful 5.
Also the right questions.Top 10 highest value uses of time (to do more of, p.210):• Things that advance your overall purpose in life• Things that you always wanted to do• Things already in a 80/20 relationship of time to results • Innovative ways of doing things to multiply results (think 5- 10x)• Things other people tell you can't be done• Things other people have done successfully in a different arena• Things that use your own creativity• Things that you can get other people to do with minimum effort• Cooperate with eccentric and efficient 80/20 people• Things for which it is now or neverThird, identify top relationships.
