https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/83412.A_Judgement_in_Stone
Often deemed the greatest work of one of the world's great crime novelists, A Judgement in Stone is justly famous for its arresting first sentence: “"Eunice Parchman killed the Coverdale family because she could not read or write." But it is not often appreciated that, however straightforward and revelatory it may appear, this sentence—and the upper-class narrator who utters it—suggests an artful and deceptive interpretation of a socially complex crime.
Crime fiction doesn’t get any more riveting than this…despite that the outcome is revealed in the first few pages (a lumpen, illiterate woman murders the family who employ her).Even though you know what’s going to happen, the irrevocable sense of doom drags you on.Ruth Rendell may have gone PC in the ‘90s, but this 1977 novel is one of her grim and bitter best (as a bonus, the book has a few lines that would never pass the censor’s pen today).
Overwhelmed at the work involved in running the household and doing the daily chores, an advertisement for a housekeeper at Lowfield Hall brings just one reply, itself a bleak letter which does not leave the lady of the house keen to engage the services of Miss Eunice Parchment.
It is the well intentioned Melinda who first raises the treatment of Eunice with her elders and keen to engage the hired help in conversation she quickly makes a nuisance of herself and shatters the tranquility of life at Lowfield Hall.
"Eunice Parchman matou a família Coverdale porque não sabia ler nem escrever."Num romance policial, só um grande escritor ousaria subverter totalmente as regras, revelando, na primeira frase, a identidade do assassino, das vítimas e o motivo. Pois, a Baronesa Rendell fá-lo, porque o crime é somente um pretexto para analisar a mente humana; a do criminoso e a das vítimas. "Há quem diga que a vida vale a pena, mas eu prefiro ler."
I discovered Rendell’s work when I was browsing The Top 100 Crime Novels of All Time.
Since then, I became a fan of Mrs. Rendell after reading this particular title.The story is about a wealthy family (wealthy in the sense that they’re all educated) who hires a spinster, Eunice Parchman to serve as their housekeeper.
There isn’t much problem about her at first for the family starts to like their new house-proud helper as the days passed.
I’ve watched both films and in my opinion, the French one's better as Mrs. Rendell also liked it.
Great book! It's not a mystery or particularly suspenseful, but it is a very interesting character study of a murderer. I think what I enjoyed most were the fully developed characters - nobody was fully good or bad, including the killer.
Uma pedra que respirava, eis Eunice, tal como sempre tinha sido.
Much has been written about illiterate adults.
This book, written earlier in Ruth Rendell’s career, has deftly described such an individual, Eunice Parchman.
Rendell’s chilling plot, written with her elegant prose, builds in intensity, gripping the attention of the reader.
In viewing these arrogant and self-serving exploits,one can begin to analyze and comprehend their roots as this author has so brilliantly rendered them in her narrative.I continue to feel awe in Rendell’s ability to devise such pathological human nature, to delve so deeply in her character developments and to demonstrate such insight and tension in her plots.
Read because of the selection in the HRF Keating list of 100 best crime & mystery novels.
Keating described them as nice people, as well meaning, but everything about them screams awful snob.
Perhaps I am a product of a different time and a different place and a different social situation and that accounts for it but I failed to spot anything nice in Rendells caricatures.The first real washout from the highly thought of Keating list, I can't say I'm too disappointed based on my previous knowledge of Ruth Rendell however.
Excellent last paragraph to a compelling novel.
The only interesting part of the story to me was the last 30 pages, once the inspectors from the police showed up and were trying to figure out what had happened.On the cover, there are raves that Ruth Rendell couldn't write a better novel.
The book was written in 1977, so I wondered as I read if, in the days before the true crime books and shows like 48 Hours Mystery, which outline all kinds of real life cases with bizarre circumstances and motives, this book might have been more appealing to the reader.
Sentença em Pedra  é um romance de crime no qual a primeira frase desvenda a identidade das vítimas e do assassino, e o motivo que conduziu ao crime. Eunice Parchman matou a família Coverdale porque não sabia ler nem escrever. É assim que começa, e aquilo que à partida é uma revelação é também algo que aguça a curiosidade do leitor. Por que vias é que não saber ler nem escrever se transforma em motivo para matar alguém?A partir da revelação inicial a narrativa vai-se desenrolando sustentada sob
Eunice Parchman matou a família Coverdale porque não sabia ler nem escrever.
É assim que começa, e aquilo que à partida é uma revelação é também algo que aguça a curiosidade do leitor.
Por que vias é que não saber ler nem escrever se transforma em motivo para matar alguém?A partir da revelação inicial a narrativa vai-se desenrolando sustentada sobretudo pelas personagens que são muito bem delineadas.
Entretenimento garantido para quem aprecia policiais vintage e lê-se de uma assentada.
A Judgement in Stone by Ruth Rendell.My review is not in accordance with the majority of reviewers as I did not like this story.
That part of the story is more fact than fiction.
The library I worked in had special programs for adults who could neither read nor write to help them with a teacher to learn those skills.
Their names were never written down as their program was also kept hush-hush.
That being said, I did not like any of the characters in this book and found the closed in world of the main character boring.
I gave up reading after about a third of the way through.
Χρόνια μετα και το θυμάμαι ακομα
I feel a bit bad giving this book only 3 stars.
I have recently read several 21st century books that do this genre better.
The opening sentence: "Eunice Parchman killed the Coverdale family because she could not read or write" is brilliant.
And of Joan Smith.However, I just feel it lacked something.
Unless we are a sociopath, in which case, exposure to fiction, or the ability to read a simple note or tabloid newspaper article, won't change that.I also didn't really buy the story of Joan Smith.
Questo libro, che mi ha un po' ricordato sia Truman Capote con il suo "A sangue freddo" che Bernhard Schlink con "A voce alta", narra la storia di una donna ignorante, sciatta, cattiva, priva di aspirazioni e indifferente perché incapace di leggere e scrivere.
Alla fine tutto si compie esattamente come dichiarato nell'incipit del libro:"Eunice Parchman sterminò la famiglia Coverdale perché non sapeva leggere, perché non sapeva scrivere.
Il secondo è la bravura della Rendell, che partendo da una storia in cui tutto è noto costruisce un libro avvincente e interessante dall'inizio alla fine.
I think it's interesting that an illiterate woman WHO IS ALSO ALREADY A MURDERER, can find solace with a nutjob fundamentalist who dresses like a whore and can conspire with her to commit murder, but I think the emphasis was too much on Eunice's illiteracy.
The result is some of the reviews here actually say that the book shows how illiteracy can lead to murder.
Actually, the book shows how having a shameful secret can lead a psychopath to murder (again) with the help of a mentally ill but "helpful" friend.
I didn't want to read any more about the Coverdales and what led up to their murders.
In this case, the main reason for the character's eventual orgy of murder and bloodshed was her illiteracy.
The book starts out with a statement of fact, setting out the main events, in this case the murder of a whole family by their housekeeper.
The rest of the book then details the events leading up to this.
Although I haven't yet read it, I imagine it is a little like Truman Capote's 'In Cold Blood', although that was based on a true crime.All in all, not really a thriller or a mystery, more a psychological character study.
The story is set in Suffolk and concerns the killing of four members of the wealthy, middle-class Coverdale family by their housekeeper, Eunice Parchman, and her friend Joan Smith.
The book has one of the most memorable and intriguing opening sentences of any novel I have read: 'Eunice Parchman killed the Coverdale family because she could not read or write'.
And when you do, you soon begin to realise that a writer of Rendell's skill and talent is able to fashion a very effective, gripping and entertaining crime story in which there is no mystery or whodunit element.
The author tells the reader exactly who committed the murder, what the motive was and who the victims were, right in the first sentence.
The result is that this isn't a mystery, but a psychological study of the characters involved (mainly the murderers) and a review of the events leading up to the fatal moment.
There is much conversation about what exactly Ruth Rendell is saying about illiterate people here.
Despite the first sentence, Eunice Parchman didn't commit murder solely because she was illiterate.
So this isn't a novel about the "likelihood of illiterate people to commit murder".
What I like about this author is her ability to draw the most convincing and complex anti-heroes.
Miss Eunice Parchman is a wonderful character, cold and deadly as a snake.
The reader knows that she murdered four members of the Coverdale family, this is revealed in the very first sentence, but as the drama unfolds, the suspense rises in a satisfying crescendo.
The beauty of the novel is in the character study of the killer, revealing the reasons for the killings (bizarre but believable due to Rendlell’s skills) and the detailed sequence of events leading to the perfect ending.
This novel had me hooked from the first chapter.

Again, this isn't a classic mystery who-dunnit.
In fact, we're told who dunnit in the very first sentence and why.
The story is more about watching the slow-motion train collision that is the relationship between Eunice, an illiterate, unfeeling cleaning woman and her bright, sophisticated, hyper-educated middle class employers.
The kind of people who pin up quotes of the day, study Greek as teenagers for fun and take notes while watching opera because they know the score by heart.
Add to this mix another perverse criminal, this one unfortunately converted to a Christian sect, and things were never going to end well.The story, of course, is in the different personalities and how they all fit together--or don't.
In Berhard Schlink's The Reader, we learn that former Nazi guard Hanna Schmitz is prepared to accept the responsibility of mass murder and a consequent lengthy prison sentence rather than admit to the shame of illiteracy.
She abandons everthing to keep this secret.
Rendell's chilling novel, on a smaller human scale, has similar elements: Eunice Parchman's is illiterate, secretive, and deadly.
She is also, however, a psychopath (with an extremely unappealing persona) and an unquestionable misanthrope.
The results are as deadly as Hanna's although the numbers are smaller and the reasons less profound.
The writing is succinct and the tension is taunt.
An amazing book by one of England's finest crime novelists.
Very well-written, it provides one of the best observations of the British class system while keeping you at the edge of your seat!
You actually know from the beginning what the conclusions will be (the first line of the book is "Eunice Parchman killed the Coverdale family because she could not read or write") and yet, although it is not a classic whodunnit it keeps you addicted until the end..
She gives an incredible portrayal of a sociopathic mind, and of a person whose illiteracy is literally a handicap..Very highly recommended.
Not so much a mystery (the murderer is revealed on the first page), but Rendell has written a taunt, speedy character study with a driving plot. I don't know how she fit such a large number of well-fleshed out characters in 188 pages, but I was fascinated and repelled in turn. What a gem of a novel!
Read this for a mystery book group. Scary and cold as hell.
Oserei dire che, marito a parte, si cura pure poco di capire quali siano i sentimenti che abitano in chiunque, compreso in primis il chiusissimo figliolo adolescente Giles, che comunica col mondo per il tramite di citazioni libresche che fanno la comparsa, settimana dopo settimana, sulla lavagna di sughero che occupa un posto d'onore nella sua stanza da letto.“Alcuni dicono che la vita è tutto, io preferisco leggere”.Aggiungi all'idilliaca famigliola, una figlia adolescente figherrima, innamorata, universitaria un poco snob che pensa che l'amore salverà il mondo, che vorrebbe essere empatica nei confronti di chiunque, anche in maniera non richiesta e il di lei padre che nei confronti verso i dipendenti tutti schierati, assume comportamenti di padre padrone anche ove non richiesto e non necessario.Per smuovere un po' le acque, ma soprattutto per fare un po' di pulizia in questa magnifica casa da tutti così trascurata, aggiungi una governante Eunice Parchman, che nasconde un segreto importante e diversi altri segretucci 'minori' che dovessi assumere una domestica vorrei assolutamente sapere.
A short novel, but an intense one.The story starts by telling us what has already happened: four people killed by their housekeeper/servant.
It's an intriguing look into the life of a woman who's never learned to read - and in her case - how damaging the results can be.Hence, a kind of 'backwards mystery,' yet one that enthralls, keeps you turning those pages, and realizing you're coming quickly to the end saying to yourself: "Yes, but when?
And WHY??"Rendell is able to hold the tension right there, through every page, as you keep waiting for the big 'reveal,' the passage, sentence or event which makes it all come clear.
But you're gonna have to wait.Excellent short novel.
This book wasn't the type of crime novel I generally read; it isn't a mystery or a thriller or even very suspenseful. You learn who the killer is in the very first sentence and what her motive was. And yet, Rendell managed to hold my interest the entire book. I did find some of Rendell's statements about the illiterate bothersome. These things may be true for some illiterate people (obviously she has made them true about her character Eunice Parchman) but I doubt that they are true for all of them.
