https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34503.The_Last_Hero
While The Last Hero, A Discworld Fable, is Pratchett’s 27th Discworld book, the real HERO here is his collaborator Paul Kidby who provides a book full of illustrations.Is it me, or does Cohen look a little like Terry Pratchett?Pratchett’s original Discworld illustrator Josh Kirby died in 2001, and Kidby has been drawing Rincewind and the Wizards ever since.
I’m an audiobook / eBook guy but to fully appreciate this work, a reader must get a copy of the graphic novel sized work that features pages of Kidby’s outstanding drawings that give life to the story.Taking aim at heroes and hero worship, Pratchett describes a time when the world needs saving and Rincewind and Carrot are up for the task.
All big and simple and they want to be part of it.'This must be how Cohen the Barbarian got his Silver Horde to follow him up the highest mountain in Discworld to return something that was stolen from the Gods.
'Ook!' said the Librarian.'He says we'll have to land soon,' said Carrot.
I LOVE that there is a God of Unnecessary Paperwork and a Goddess of Certain Types of Ice Cream and Short Lengths of String.I rate the story a three.
A fun time, loads to look at, but a necessary read only for Discworld completists.
Este es uno de los libros que me ha gustado del mundodisco, por varias razones, no solo tiene al cob
This was the the last book on Terry Pratchett re-read binge. While not as substantial as some of the rest of his books (I'm pretty sure the wordcount is less than half of his usual) this book makes up for it by being beautifully illustrated by Paul Kidby. I've never seen an artist do such spot-on interpretations of an author's characters. Kidby's work is really amazing.
I read my copy back in 2001 when first came out.
This first H/B copy not horrible P/B one.
This brilliant story by Sir T but real star of this book is illustrator Paul Kidby who's ills make the story.Old Soldiers never die they just fade away.
I learned that school in 1960s but this proves that this load of old bullshit!
Cohen the Barbarian a mean old git, balded wrinkly prune with sword & walking stick.
The Last Hero is the seventh book in the Rincewind subseries.
It’s actually an illustrated novel, the first one I’ve read.
I particularly enjoyed seeing illustrations for the various characters I’ve read about over the past many books.
The other Rincewind illustrations throughout the book all show him with this perpetual frown and a dejected look that made me laugh every time he showed up in a picture.I don’t normally include pictures with my reviews but, seeing as how this is an illustrated novel, I thought it would be fun to show one of my favorite pictures in the book.
The Late great Sir Terry's Conan tribute to Robert E Howard what happens to super men when they get old & there teeth fall out this old man Steptoe with muscles. But the extra special illustrations that give this book that WOW!
So much fun.
I think I hid it like a last bottle of really excellent wine.
This time the sassy, wonderful, snide, silly, colorful, twisted thingamabobs associated with Sir Terry's wordsmithery are augmented by Paul Kidby's frantic illustrations.
In my volume, page 130-131 is particularly enchanting.It's hard to pick a favorite character in Sir Terry's pantheon, but damn, Lord Vetinari, the cultivated, calculating, well-mannered tyrant, is ahead by a finely arched nostril.I read the last few pages weeping while grinning like a loon.
When Sir Terry's words tickle me in all the correct places, bring on the cliche laugh and cry.Heroes never die.
Solid.I was never too fond of Rincewind - among the different arch-heroes that Terry introduced in his books, the neurotic coward is not at the top of my list, but still, like watching trainwrecks in slow-mo, you can't shake the feeling a bag of buttered popcorn would do nicely right then.I think the plot is a bit vague - as most Rincewind stuff is - but basically, this is a multi-pronged parody on Conan the Barbarian, plus a whole slew of cliches. Thoroughly entertaining, although not as memorable as the books focused onSam Vimes, Moist Von Lipwig or the Witches.Igor
Mrakoplaš, Barbar Cohen, Leonardo da Vinci, Schrödingerova mačka, Prometeus a hlava XXII? Áno, stále správny pratchettovský mix, aj keď kratší :)Goodreads výzva 2016:116. dočítaná kniha
A small story, clearly germinated whilst working on the previous Disc instalment, covering the effects of time and ageing, the desire to live longer, see more, put a mark on the world you are about to leave behind.
The real quality of this book is the artwork of Paul Kidby, almost every page is loaded with artistic detail and often humour, and much like Pratchett's conflict between silly and smart humour, some of Kidby's work is far more subtle than others.
(relectura Mundodisco #27)Una fábula del Mundodisco, un homenaje a la saga, un regalo a los lectores. Te hará ser consciente de lo feliz que te ha hecho Pratchett a lo largo de los años.
An installment that it's very easy to overlook: it's only a very short illustrated novel, after all.
More a lengthy short story than a novel, to be honest.
Combine that tight focus with an author at the peak of his powers, and the result is near-perfect execution.
You could argue that there've very little said here that Pratchett hasn't said already, and that's probably why I get a feeling of lightness from it, and why people forget about it.
It's a small, minor, easily-overlooked brilliant little gem of a book.My fuller review is over at my blog.
That's what defined him, and that's what also, I thought, made him increasingly irrelevant in a Discworld with high-speed communications, reformed and societally-assimilated monsters, the rule of law & order and, most of all, a full map.
For a Hero who lived on the edge of everything, the complete civilization of the world was the end of final chapter of his life.
I don't know if it's symbolic that the last great discovery - the true mapping out of the world, above and below, also happens in this book; now that there are no more mysteries, Cohen's world is finally ended - but Cohen himself continues.
He takes that final step into the only place left for him.
Even without the illustrations, I'd buy it anyway.The Last Hero is technically a Rincewind book but it's mainly about Cohen & The Silver Horde and Leonard of Quirm, served with a side of Carrot.
I loved Vena/Mrs. McGarry - one of the reasons I love Pratchett is because he writes awesome women.
She chooses to be Mrs. McGarry.
BLIND IO: I feel that if we had wanted people to fly, we would have given them wings.OFFLER: We allow broomthtickth and magic carpeth.
BLIND IO: Ah, but they're magical.
Men could look down upon their gods!
Is there a god of policemen?CARROT: No, sir.
The illustrated Discworld novella The Last Hero is the twenty-seventh in the humorous fantasy series written by Terry Pratchett and assisted by artist Paul Kirby.
And once again Pratchett follows his first protagonist Rincewind racing to save the world.Cohen the Barbarian and his Silver Horde have left their imperial possessions on the Counterweight continent and are heading for the home of the Disc’s Gods with the gift of fire first stolen by the legendary First Hero, unfortunately the old men are planning to blow the place to smithereens which would have the unfortunate side effect of destroying the Disc.
I still wanted to give Discworld another chance though because I really wanted to like Terry Pratchett.
I found it slightly better than "The Color of Magic," but I still found it only mildly amusing and still didn't get what the big deal of why these books are so popular.
This time I picked up "The Last Hero: A Discworld Fable." I have to say that this may very well be the first Pratchett book I actually enjoyed.
This time I actually found it amusing.
So, I gave Terry Pratchett another chance, and I'm glad I did.
2004I had nothing to say about it, although I recall not liking the pictures very much.***2013 April 11Now that I know the characters involved, I enjoyed this one enormously.
Pratchett can be challenging to read: he eschews chapters, switches between scenes all over the place following different groups of characters, and basically, just throws the reader in the deep end.
Now that I know more about all the major players, Rincewind, Cohen and the Silver Hoard, the Patrician, Carrot, Ponder, etc.
The Patrician, Vetinari, gets wind of this, and puts together a team to prevent what will be the end of Discworld.
Kniha bola tajný darček pre manžela. Zháňala som ju ROKY! A pod haluz roku 2016 ju aj dostal... jasné, že som neodolala a aspoň listovala v nej, ale na svoju obhajobu môžem povedať, že som ju nečítala. Až dnes, lebo muž ju dorazil pred pár dňami. :) Barbar Cohen a jeho partia vyzerajú ako inventár domova dôchodcov, ale len vyzerajú. Vedia prekvapiť. V takomto veľkom formáte vyniknú ilustrácie, kriedové strany, proste lahôdka. Oproti zvyšku, čo vyšiel v brožovanej väzbe (1. čes. vydanie), je to riadny rozdiel, sa mi ani do police nezmestí! :)
4.5Siempre termino los libros de Mundodisco con ese curioso dilema interno que reza: ¿estallo a carcajadas o rompo a llorar como una posesa?Qué preciosidad de historia y qué bien contada está.
A pesar de ser uno de los libros de la saga Rincewind, esta vez nuestro mago tiene un papel más secundario.
Y eso no es malo, al contrario: da más juego a personajes como la Horda, los magos de la universidad, los dioses o Lord Vetinari (oh, Patricio, me tienes el corazón robado).
Los dibujos de Kidby son una maravilla, una obra de arte que merece ser contemplada al detalle.
Zemeplošskí The Expendables
From time to time, you just need some Pratchett. This is a small dose (one of his shorter books) and just the medicine I needed. It's not quite up there with my favourite Discworld novels, although it does have Carrot Ironfoundersson in it, but it was funny, over the top, and full of references and in-jokes - in short, everything a Discworld novel should be.
Cohen and the Horde are on the quest that's going to end all quests - if Rincewind, Carrot, Librarian, and Leonard da Quirm don't stop them, that is. The good: Oh, so many good jokes are crammed in this short book! I was giggling constantly! The pacing is awesome - there is almost no boring moments.The bad: Hmm... Well, to fully appreciate this book you really have to know all the characters, it's not as standalone as others. The ugly: Nada.
There is something quite charming about the fact that this book is styled like a ridiculously sized children's book. I really enjoyed the illustrations and diagrams and thought they added a lot to the humor of the book.
If you have news about the end of the world, you don't want EVERYONE to know.""No, not craftsmen, my lord," he said.
"I have no use for people who have learned the limits of the possible." (One of my ALL time favorite Pratchett quotes.)"That was the very centre of his genius - he invented things that anyone could have thought of, and men who can invent things that anyone could have thought of are very rare men.
Lots of people would be as cowardly as me if they were brave enough.""If you believed in The Code, that was worrying.
They are all awesome, and incredibly detailed, I want all of them as poster for my room XD.Now for the story: I'm neither a big fan of Cohen nor of Rincewind but I still really enjoyed it.
Cohen is in company of his silver horde, and they're just an awesome bunch (Veena the Raven-Haired strangles someone with pink knitting-wool and stitched 'BURN THIS HOUSE DOWN' on fabric...how can you not love her?) and Rincewind get paired up with Carrot...you know I actually felt sorry for Rincewind, then.Oh, and these pictures with Death and kitty?
Believe it or not, this was my first Terry Pratchett book - and I thought it was hilarious. We listened to the book as a family and enjoyed the clever puns and witty allusions.
Involving Cohen the Barbarian, Rincewind, and Carrot.Cohen and his Silver Horde set out, kidnapping a minstrel, to return fire to the gods.
The Counterweight Continent sent word by albatross to Ankh-Morpork, where, they figure, they can do something about it.One thing they can do is figure out that the heroes' plan would destroy the Discworld in minutes.The resulting story involves rubies, Cohen and the Silver Horde applying the Code to a fight they face, Lord Vetinari pointing out the details of how heroes act, a stowaway, the moon, the sight of the elephants, the question of cheating Fate, and much more.
El último héroe le devolverá a los dioses algo que el primer héroe les robó.¡No podía ser mas épica la premisa!Cohen el Barbaro, junto a su Horda de Plata, son mis personajes favoritos de esta saga de libros. Me encantó este libro, ahora este es mi libro favorito del Mundodisco. Gracias señor Pratchett, gracias por escribir este magnifico libro.
