https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42519.Eisenhower
Ambrose's 'Eisenhower-Soldier and President' is just an out and out five star biography.The authors treatment of his subject is so well balanced, informative and well written.
All the main political players and world events are covered where Eisenhower, as soldier or president or elder statesman was involved for over four decades.
There are some huge nuggets in this gold mine of a biography such as Korea and the Cold War, Ike's assessments on Nixon and LBJ, the post war growth of the military-industrial complex and the development of the C.I.A. Many world and U.S. domestic problems encountered in later decades are more clearly understood after seeing their beginnings under Eisenhower's watch.
A very readable, enjoyable biography, yes. But more, this book is a profound, fascinating, challenging study of character and leadership. Both the amazing strengths and the appalling weaknesses in leadership that characterized Ike are honestly presented here to the reader. For any who function in a leadership role, this is a work that may be best read with a pen or pencil in hand to note its many valuable leadership lessons.
But generally, the war coverage is good, and Ambrose adequately covers Eisenhower's complex relationship with Patton, and his constant headache in the name of Bernard Montgomery.
Ambrose does good work here: he does not over-analyze nor does he get into psychoanalysis, but he also knows that just stating facts without adding any commentary will not give the reader a sense of the tension between the two men.As is typical of his biographies on Eisenhower and Nixon, Ambrose offers a thoughtful and well-balanced assessment of the man he is writing about.
Great book but I wish there'd been more on Ike and Kay Summersby!I haven't actually finished this book yet, but wonderful amazing Goodreads (my favorite site) won't let me change the status back to "currently reading" just because I hit the wrong button one time.
I wish Ambrose would tackle his feelings about black people in detail, but he just tap dances off into more feel-good stuff about Ike's popularity and bland good nature.
It's odd, because on his way up Eisenhower spent a lot of time with old-timers like "Black Jack" Pershing, who won his name leading Negro troops in combat.
https://bestpresidentialbios.com/2017...Six years after completing his two-volume biography of Dwight Eisenhower, Stephen Ambrose authored an abridgement of the series: “Eisenhower: Soldier and President (The Renowned One-Volume Life).” Ambrose was an author and historian whose legacy has been seriously tainted by numerous and often convincing allegations of plagiarism and exaggeration.
But where Ambrose’s was once arguably the preeminent biographer of Eisenhower, both his series and this even better abridgement have been surpassed by more recent, engaging and colorful accounts of Eisenhower’s life.Overall rating: 3¾ stars* I have rated this biography without regard to allegations of plagiarism by Ambrose (which are generally directed toward his other books), allegations he greatly exaggerated the number of interviews he conducted with Eisenhower in the preparation of this series and allegations he fabricated at least one significant quote by Eisenhower.
Eisenhower as a general hated war and as president made peace and kept the peace.
IKE defeated the Germans, tolerated the British and French, and came to the realization that Russia could not be trusted.
As president he developed a patience in the face of yearly crisis both foreign and domestic.
His failure was in failing to be a leader in Civil Rights and in confronting McCarthyism.
He was a very likable person and genuine, a moderate in a conservative era.
Only IKE was able to trim the military in the face of the arms race.
More than anything else this book helped solidify my expectation that history NOT be consumed by the "man" but rather be a retelling of the structures attempted, accepted, or destroyed by those in power.I have read other books that, for example, refer to the Eisenhower years as an era in which America learned its covert action strategy.
I see these in this book merely as passing mentions, not as opportunities to understand what made the subordinates of the Eisenhower adminstration make choices that were DIFFERENT from other administrations.
Their second son John was born on August 3, 1922.During Eisenhower’s career as a soldier, and later a general, Eisenhower was often separated from his wife.
To help ease some tension, she decided to respond personally to the thousands of letters of concern sent to her husband.Eisenhower was not interested in running again for a second term of the Presidency in 1956.
When Johnson announced that he declined to run for reelection for a second term in office, Eisenhower endorsed Nixon for the Republican Party.
A very good biography. I thought Ambrose did a good job of objectively assessing his presidency. The way Eisenhower singlehandedly attempted to control spending in the arms race during the Cold War is impressive. Also his rejection of strong recommendations he use atomic weapons many different times was wise. But his lack of leadership on civil rights was unfortunate. An interesting and insightful read.
No other President in the twentieth century could make that claim." Please understand, I believe that within the limits of his time, Eisenhower was a decent man, and by any measure as Supreme Commander important to the victory of the allies in World War II and a good president--I just can't quite rate him as highly as Ambrose does.
Nevertheless, only a couple of weeks ago, I read Flexner's biography of George Washington, where the author also claimed his subject was a "great and good man," and having read about the accomplishments and qualities of that "soldier and president," I can't see putting Eisenhower on the same pedestal.However, Ambrose doesn't just present Eisenhower's accomplishments and admirable qualities but his mistakes and flaws as well.
He was the commander in chief for the allied forces during World War II, and the first third of the book tells the story of his rise, the decisions that propelled the allies to victory and his relationships during the war – personal and professional.Following the war, he was a staunch supporter the United Nations, and, as head of the American Occupation Zone in Germany, he had great influence in the direction taken to rebuild Europe.
The failure of Bay of Pigs will embolden the Soviets to do something they would not otherwise do.”Of course, Eisenhower was absolutely right, and history has proved it to be so.
One is fortunate if one has the two separate volumes of DWIGHT EISENHOWER ' s biography , as originally written by the late STEPHEN AMBROSE .
]Titled , respectively , ' EISENHOWER : SOLDIER , GENERAL OF THE ARMY , PRESIDENT - ELECT ' and ' EISENHOWER THE PRESIDENT ' , the two separate books are more fitting a personage as consequential , as great and as under - appreciated as ' Ike ' .
He seems never to spend too much time on laborious details about any one event in his subject’s history except where obviously needed (case in point – volume 3 of the Nixon series spent a lot of pages on the Watergate crisis.)Because of this, I was a bit put off by the fact that this biography is actually an amalgamation of two books that the author devoted to Dwight Eisenhower – the first one focused on the soldier, the second one, the President.
Eisenhower believed the traits of leadership can be taught. If he is right, then this book is a textbook to be studied for generations to come. Whether or not you agree with his policies, his actions while a general and president often brought exactly the results "Ike" desired. The peace and prosperity of his presidential term is often taken for granted, but it was the product of a lot of great decision-making. By seeking the middle of the road politically, he kept the peace in Washington, D.C., a lesson the major political parties could learn today.
i'm about halfway through this, and I'm loving it. Stephen Ambrose may well convince me that the best way to learn history is through one person's (Eisenhower) or one group's (Easy Company in Band of Brothers) story. Read either of these book, and I'll be he'll convince you too.One thing I learned - surprisingly (to me in any event), Eisenhower was a major peace-nik. Nothing like seeing war first hand to convince you how horrible it is I guess.
A very solid book. Certainly made me look at Eisenhower, the President very differently.In retrospect, I would consider this an essential read for anyone who wants to better understand the beginning of the second half of the American 20th century and our first time on the stage as the accepted "leader of the free world."
Great editorial on the European theater. But, Ambrose is heavily biased toward Eisenhower. It is almost as if he can do no wrong in Ambrose's eyes.
Much like the Tom Hanks movie 'saving private Ryan' but much more graphic.

Dwight Eisenhower was a good man and a good president, and it's nice that someone finally said so. Newton has done his research, and flatly contradicts the widespread perception (fed by the press) that he let things happen rather than making them happen. This was never a probability . Ike, after all, won World War Two). My one criticism of the book is Newton's tendency to make judgments-this was good, this was bad-on issues about which that is far from settled. Not a good trait in a book of this type. Still, good reading and a lot of interesting history.
Despite the controversy surrounding Ambrose's meetings with Eisenhower (did he or didn't he?), I recommend this book as an overview of Eishenhower's career. Ambrose's style makes a topic that could become very dry very quickly into a pretty darn fast moving narrative. And while it is clear that Ambrose idolizes Eisenhower, the book never really becomes a hagiography - Ambrose is always quick to point out Eisenhower's faults and failings.
I'm not familiar with Mr. Abrose's (RIP) other work as a historian, but in this book, he seems less determined to provide an objective account of Eisenhower's life and career than to both praise and criticize the man in equal measure, which seems less "balanced" than "bipolar." Informative, though.
This condensed bio is perfect in length but omits some details. For example, Ike just magically becomes President of Columbia University. No explanation how this occurs. Ambrose does a great job explaining the major issues of the 50’s and I was surprised how much I did not know. But this is not one of Ambrose’s best works. A little plodding.
Very good book, that was informative and well written. The information about WW2 and Eisenhower's presidency was quite interesting. My primary complaint about this book is that characters weren't reintroduced, which made it hard to remember who everyone was.
This is a great book. I listened to the audio version and highly recommend to get a detailed view of Eisenhower's leadership years. Only disappointment is the lack of writing about his presidential years.
Fair and balanced, Ambrose's writing resonates with lessons for today and fascinating moments of historic significance.
A fantastic history of an amazing man's life. Ambrose does an excellent job of praising Eisenhower's strengths and accomplishments while never ignoring his weaknesses and mistakes.
AmazingThis book was so well written and interesting. Ambrose has a way of taking history and bringing it to life without embellishment.
Since I knew Eisenhower served as MacArthur's exec officer in the Phillipines, I was curious if there would be a different point of view presented.Mr Ambrose is known as one of the great US historians, having written some 20 books, several of which have become quite well known.
Mr Ambrose, I know, came under fire several years ago for plagarism (something about quotes not used correctly) but this book does not seem to ever be mentioned as a case of that.
