https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6250479-the-complete-works-of-rudyard-kipling
I have only read one short story so far but will come back here, to read more and my highlights and notes will be attached here but stories under title. So far it is get navigational wise, actually the best with that regards and no errors yet. I like the Delphi series and always look for it when I want a collection by an author, some are not perfect but I find on a whole the best, IMO.
I didn't really finish the ENTIRE works, but read Jungle Book, The Second Jungle Book, and the short stories, as well as most of the poems. I'll get back to some more later. :)
Like so many of his works based on the British Army in India were actually quite boring, tiring and tedious to read, some quite uncomfortable to get through for the usage of his language.
However, he was born into a different time of a white British man born in India at the time of the Raj.Kiplings other stories focus on animals, mythology, the environment, some very entertaining, but after a while they all blend into the same.For many Kipling will always be a contentious author for the use of his language and the time period he was born into.

One of the great writers of our time. I enjoyed this collection of Kiplings novels short stories, poems, memoirs and letters, diaries. I would recommend this to anyone who wants to read Kipling and find out more about him.
I had forgotten how AMAZING Kim was. I always liked it, but I probably read it a bit too young (8-9).Wow, what an amazing EPIC romp through India. I loved the Jungle books from first introduction, and it was so much fun reading them to Michael not too long ago.I had forgotten how funny Kipling could be. At times, his stories are so dense with late Victorian British politics and culture, that it takes a bit of slogging and some research to get through, but his voice is so strong. Worth the slog!
First of all, it changed my perception that jungle book is a story with funny & childish animal characters who play with mowgli. I found it bit more dark than I imagined. Its about survival and laws and internal conflicts and many more life-lessons. And stories of mowgli (which is part of my childhood as a famous cartoon series) is only a part of it. There are other stories too which i loved no less. I hope upcoming disney movie will do justice with the book in spite of additions for the sake of entertainment.
Despite the fact he was an unapologetic jingoist, Kipling was a very good writer who lived in very interesting times and places. His poetry is not as good as his prose. His short stories were grand and his children's stories are the most fun you can have reading to a small person. I read his stuff all on-line for free. Highly recommended.
0 lunch explaining the book which is a waste of timeThe book was good reading but there was too many people s explaining what I had all ready read and I am not a student that needs this information.
Great Read!
An exceptional writer and thinker.
