https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/320778.The_Egyptian_Cross_Mystery
Really weird. Even for Ellery Queen.And I was stumped.Ellery asks the reader do we know who it is because he does. Clue staring me right in the face and I missed it.
This is my first novel where the author challenge readers explicitly to guess the culprit. And coincidentally this novel is my first Ellery Queen's novel that I've ever read. After finish the book, I noticed the first publishing year was 1932! The trick was so fresh for me, this is one of mystery whodunnit novel that highly influence my taste.
“The most pitiful Christmas story of the year was revealed today when the beheaded body of Andrew Van, 46-year-old schoolmaster of the little West Virginia hamlet of Arroyo, was discovered crucified to the signpost on a lonely crossroads near the village early Christmas morning.
Under the armpits two more spikes had been driven, supporting the weight of the dead man in such a way that, his head having been hacked off, the corpse resembled nothing so much as a great letter T.The signpost formed a T.
In this book the writers Ellery Queen (as opposed to the fictional author Ellery Queen) can be seen to be working toward as less Philo Vancish lead character while still in the thralls of concocting overly ornate murders.
Queen (the fictional character) still talks far too much and says far too little.
The entire books/story/plot would fall apart were not Queen, the other characters and apparently the readers as well, ignorant of that part of the world that the genesis of the tale is supposedly set in.
Originally published in 1932, this classic novel is from the Golden Age of the "fair play" mystery.All of the suspects, alibis,and clues are there for the reader to solve the mystery with no short cuts or cheating by the author.Ellery Queen was the pen name of two cousins, Frederic Dannay and Manfred B. Lee, and their first book, The Roman Hat Mystery was published in 1928. The famous mystery magazine still bears Ellery Queen's name.This is wonderful old-school fare that Agatha Christie fans should love.
Sarà per gli omicidi truculenti, sarà per la storia che ha radici nel passato dei protagonisti, sarà perché ho indovinato l’assassino (ieeeeeee!!!!!), sarà perché effettivamente questo romanzo è migliore degli altri della serie che ho letto, fatto sta che mi è piaciuto molto di più, e sono stata per un po’ indecisa se dargli o no 5 stelline. Alla fine ho optato per le quattro, ma comunque veramente un bel romanzo giallo.http://www.naufragio.it/iltempodilegg...
Not going to lie, it took me a bit to get into the book, I wasn’t familiar with the writing style and even though the book starts in a very macabre and shocking way, it took some time for the plot to really take off for me; but when it did I really enjoyed the story.
The crime is complicated and obscure but it makes sense even if till the end you can’t tie all the loose ends, there are no plot holes and everything it’s explained well.
The rest of the characters were also intriguing and the background schemes didn’t turn the plot messy, they actually added to it making it more entertaining.
These early Queen's just aren't as good as the later ones. Not to say they are unreadable, they just don't have that crisp clarity that the later ones have.
What the hell! How can I never find the murderer in Ellery Queen books? A breathtaking book. Wonderful. This book deserves more readership. It is a very clever and exotic plot and all of it works. The first crime is glossed over, but its significance overshadows the buildup to the next, more sinister crime. There are bland passages when the hippies show up. But harakht is a funny character, albeit a tragic one too. Ellery Queen's deductions are flawless and I wish I had deduced from THAT clue(the bottle) the murderer's identity.
This novel is the first to take Ellery out of New York and his usual set-up with his father Richard and manservant Djuna.
I struggled a little to get into the book at first with its lengthy coroner's sequence and several moments of smugness from Ellery but once another person dies in a different state in the same way the case became much more interesting to me.The book adopts a far more action-focused conclusion than I have found in the previous Ellery stories with the final chapters setting up a race against time for the detectives to catch their suspect.
It is a clever story that plays fair, that works to keep the reader engaged throughout the whole novel and that builds to an exciting conclusion.For a much more detailed review see my blog
Mio secondo Ellery Queen dopo il bellissimo "Il gatto dalle molte code" le cui atmosfere pensavo di ritrovare anche qua.
Sono costretta a bollarlo come insufficiente: una trama confusa e subito dimenticata, una superficiale caratterizzazione dei personaggi, un' ambientazione un po' spiazzante (che diventa qualcosa a metà fra la montagna e un' isola sperduta con una spiaggia di nudisti) che secondo me ha ben poco a vedere con quelle dei bei gialli classici, poca atmosfera.
So che gli autori sono due geni dei meccanismi del giallo classico, pertanto non credo, dopo questo scivolone, che il mio interesse nei loro confronti si esaurisca qui.
Still a fun read, but the overbearingly superior attitude of the male characters towards the women got a little grating at times - surprisingly so, because Elley Queen has written some feisty girls who can definitely stand up for themselves.
But not in this book.
This was also the first Queen where I guessed the murderer correctly, which took a bit of the fun out of it; and some of the deductions and leaps of logic were a little too drastic and incredible.
All in all a solid mystery and I did enjoy it, but not the best Ellery Queen I've read.
Y lo terminé. Estuvo genial.Me encantó que Ellery Queen además de ser el escritor, fuese también un personaje (y qué buen personaje!) y que hasta dijera que escribiría luego una novela sobre el caso.Y qué decir del profesor Yardley, me cayó súper bien desde el principio. Esta dupla Queen-Yardley no tiene mucho que envidiar a Sherlock y a Watson. Una novela policiaca única, exquisita.
"Enfim, a causa do ódio era a costumada: mulheres e dinheiro.""A chave de um mistério está mais vezes na boca de uma pessoa que julga não ser ouvida do que no desenvolvimento do mais arguto raciocínio."
This was great and really different than other books. I almost figured it all out, too.
Convoluted.
My first Ellery Queen mystery, and a pretty good one, with plenty of twists and turns. I found it interesting how the author challenged the reader to solve the mystery before unravelling the truth.
My third Ellery Queen and probably the best so far. Scarlet Letters was a trifle not much worth remembering. French Powder Mystery had a cool solution, but it was a slog to read for much of the duration. Cross was not quite as clever or unpredictable as Powder, but it was more entertainingly plotted and better paced with moments of well-argued brilliance from Ellery. If this is what I can expect more of from Queen's typical outings, we're going to get along quite swimmingly.
Storia apparentemente complicata ma una volta svelato l'arcano si rivela in tutta la sua banalità.
Ma Ellery Queen è inarrivabile come creatore di meccanismi gialli: i suoi libri sono una vera sfida all'intelligenza ed all'intuito del lettore.
Ho fatto la mia prima conoscenza di Ellery Queen attraverso la lettura di questo romanzo.
Colpo di scena finale, dopo la consueta sfida di Ellery al lettore, anche se la spiegazione del movente risulta un po' frettolosa.
Non mi aspettavo proprio niente da questo libro, regalatomi da un mio amico insieme ad altri due sempre di Ellery Queen, ma devo ammettere che è stata una lettura piacevole, pur sapendo che sono solita apprezzare maggiormente altri generi letterari che non il giallo.
It’s got all sorts of things going for it: bizarre murders with possibly-ritualistic significance; exotic back-story (Montenegro in the 30s seems to function as a kind of Ruritania); a relentlessly fair plot with a simple explanation that seems a little familiar to readers of "The Chinese Orange Mystery," but which works equally well here.
If there’s a problem, it’s with the motive of the killer.
I don’t find “he was crazy” to be particularly compelling, and the alternative motives are equally dull.
Still—"Egyptian Cross" is a vintage mystery that illustrates perfectly the ease with which the classical-analytic form flirted with the bizarre.
Usually, that leaves me a little disappointed in the book.
Maybe it's because I don't TRY to figure out the mystery, so if it comes to me it must be AWFULLY easy.
This certainly wasn't easy, so I have to put it down to luck.
The character Ellery Queen finally starts to develop a personality in this adventure, not merely coming off like a walking analytic machine.
Ellery still has a tendency to over-talk, but not nearly as bad as in previous books.
(Note: all mentions of Ellery here refer to the character, not the writers.)
This was the first mystery I read. I found it on a shelf at home of my aunt. A vengeance that comes from afar Montenegro, the ferocity of the clan who arrives in the U.S. and is expressed in the death and decapitation of three brothers. A survey who would be closed if Ellery Queen did not understand why the murderer, when he had several disinfectants, had used a little bottle of iodine unlabeled.
On Christmas day, a man has been murdered and crucified with his head removed, creating a 'T' shape that is confounding investigators. Ellery comes down from New York and becomes fascinated with the crime. But nothing comes of it so he goes home and forgets about it until six months later when another body, murdered in the same fashion, shows up.Nudist colonies and foreigners and Egyptologist lunatics, oh my!
Confusing plot and solution.
One heck of a yarn, which I quite enjoyed. One positive is that Richard Queen and his snuffbox don't figure in the mystery. While the policemen are as pig-headed and aggressive, they don't come in the way of enjoying the book. As with many Ellery Queen mysteries, one needs to suspend disbelief now and then.
Some of the early Ellery Queen books are fun, even though the main character often comes across as pompous as pretentious. But this particular addition to the series is BORING! In fact, there are several chapters in which the characters themselves go on at great length about how little is happening! Stay away from this one!
I found it a fun read. I enjoyed the old time writing style, the formality of it. I also enjoyed the references to now gone things like the 20th Century Limited, and how, when it was necessary to get word to someone quickly, the first choice was Western Union. This was an Audio Book. The reader was pretty good.
As crazy/complicated as any of Queen' s mysteries. The Egyptian adjective is misleading -- try Balkin blood feuds. Good but the last 15% of the planes, trains and autos across the country was Keystone-Kop like.
The young Ellery Queen is visiting Chicago when he learns of a bizarre murder in West Virginia. Unfortunately, there are no leads until there's a similar case on Long Island. Reader expectations are turned upside-down several times by the brilliant amateur sleuth.
