https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/835692.Death_in_Ecstasy
But consider instead Marsh's similarity to Janet Evanovitch, or to Oscar Wilde as Detective Alleyn questions a suspect:"‘No worries over money?''Money?
No. She was what the world calls rich.''What do you call it, sir?'Father Garnette gave a frank and dreadfully boyish laugh.
'Why, I should call it rich too, Inspector,' he cried gaily.'An unhappy love affair, do you know?” pursued Alleyn.Father Garnette did not answer for a moment.
“Can you translate my question into your own language or would you rather not answer it?”I admit, I might have rolled my eyes a bit at the beginning, a ceremony by an oddball cult,  infiltrated by Nigel the journalist.
His interest piqued, he ventures out, on the wet and windy evening, and discovers the House of the Sacred Flame, an unorthodox religious group.
Intrigued, he gains entrance, and witnesses a religious rite going on inside – with the group crying out the names of pagan gods and passing round a chalice of wine.
Unfortunately, the chalice contains something a little more potent and, poisoned, the ‘Chosen Vessel,’ a woman named Cara Quayne, falls to her death, witnessed by Nigel, who immediately calls Alleyn.This is an unusual setting and an odd cast of suspects.

Review to followAnd eventually it did follow.
:)I am enjoying this Inspector Alleyn mysteries challenge, although I am still 3 behind where I should be, oh bother.The characterisations are good and the murders themselves are all so different, so every story is a breath of fresh air and fun (if murder can be fun ??).
I suppose I am getting to like him, though I think I'm building on him in my own mind more than Marsh is in the text.This one only slightly breaks the trend -- there's no reconstruction, though the group do gather together again to talk it over, which is pretty close.The statement I spotted in another review that Nigel Bathgate does nothing and could he please be murdered now is sadly accurate.
The one point I liked was when Alleyn rings up and tells him to act as if he's talking to Angela.
This one was a slow starter for me. But it did pick up. And I wound up enjoying it.Here Alleyn's reporter friend, Nigel Bathgate, discovers that he is living across the street from a cult-type church. They won't let him in the first time - he was too late. So the next time he makes a point of being early. A suspicious death takes place and he calls in Alleyn.It was interesting. I was stumped.
Death in Ecstasy (1936) by Ngaio Marsh finds Inspector Roderick Alleyn's some-time Watson, Nigel Strangeways, bored on a rainy, blustery London night.
There are seven suspects all with reasons to want the lovely Cara dead--from those who were jealous of her chosen position with Father Garnette to those with a taste for the "special cigarettes" that light the way to ecstasy to those who were greedy for her wealth...either for themselves or to fill the coffers of the Sacred Flame.
A cult that embraces all the gods of everywhere and every time and the sacred words and chants of them all.
Ngaio Marsh writes with wit and assurance.
Tonight we slam the door on this bit of hocus-pocus and tomorrow someone else starts a new sideshow for the credulous ." Sadly true.
This mystery came out in 1936 and already she observes what is true today (2016) that young people, "take refuge in irony, a commodity that should be reserved for the middle-aged." As always, the characters are well drawn and the banter delightful while noting at one point the necessity faced by compassionate investigators to include a sense of humor in their otherwise grim jobs.
Ngaio Marsh's style is always a pleasure, but this tale of mystic rites in a threadbare temple in middle class London is a bit antiquated (even for its time), and the characters--often a Marsh strong point--are rather stereotypical, particularly the American businessman and the two gay "acolytes." Also, the solution to the mystery really wasn't much of a surprise.
Drugs, sex and neopaganism made for a very fast read; the best of the Alleyn series to date.
Written in 1936, when table-turning, tarot and all sorts of paganism were enjoying a comeback...rather like today, though if Marsh had been a modern mystery author, instead of being neopagan, the "church" probably would have been on the Evangelical lunatic fringe.
(If I ever find a book with both a cast-list and a map of where it happened, I'll know it's an impossible read.) But perhaps said list was just a publisher's convention, as so far they tend to abound in Marsh's books.
" 'I receive facts, " said Alleyn, 'as a spider does flies.' ""People do run true to type.
It's an axiom of police investigation.
"world-weary" 'Look here,' said Nigel suddenly, 'let's pretend it's a detective novel.
Well, who's your pick.' 'I am invariably gulled by detective novels.
No herring so red but I raise my voice and give chase.' 'Don't be ridiculous, ' said Nigel.
'Fact.
You see, in real detection herrings are so often out of season.' 'Well, never mind, who's your pick?
' 'It depends on the author.
If it's Agatha Christie, Miss Wade's occulted guilt drips from every page.
Nigel Bathgate finds himself bored one rainy Sunday night and crosses his street to the House of the Sacred Flame, a strange cult that has recently moved in near him in Ngaio Marsh’s Death in Ecstasy.
Talking his way past the locked doors, Nigel gets introduced to a hypnotic preacher, Father Garnet, who is full of talk of ecstasy, only stirring at the end in time to watch the passing of the sacred vessel among the initiates.
Then, it gets handed to the newest initiate, Cara Quayne, who drinks and enters ecstasy, according to Father Garnet, but in reality she dies.
Death in Ecstasy was the fourth of Ngaio Marsh’s Detective Chief Inspector Roderick Alleyn mysteries, appearing in 1936.
Nigel Bathgate knows enough about crime to immediately suspect poison, and he makes a quick phone call to his old friend Detective Chief Inspector Roderick Alleyn of Scotland Yard.
Apart from the deceased, de Ravigne and Ogden there are also a Mrs Candour, a Miss Wade, a nervous young woman named Maurice Pringle and his fiancée, Janey Jenkins.
Roderick Alleyn would be in the well-established tradition of gentlemen detectives but for one thing - he is a working policeman rather than an amateur of crime.Death in Ecstasy is highly entertaining and the cult background adds a good deal of fun.

Ngaio Marsh, where have you been all my life? I had read Agatha Christie over the years, but never Marsh. I love the sense of humor and wry wit, the handling of the characters. The setting in the 1930s era of wacky cults and pseudo religions was a lot of fun. I've seen other writers touch on the subject, but Marsh is so playful with it and yet adds insight as to why someone would join up with one of these groups. Well written and fun. I'm definitely going to check out the library for more Marsh!
Some rather grating stereotypes bring an already not-special effort down.
There is a lot of other dialogue which is difficult to understand: perhaps on publication this was contemporary slang, but if so then the colloquialisms are no longer used, so it's difficult to follow what the characters really meant to say.The plot was fairly engaging, with a religious cult being the setting for the murder.
It was interesting to understand a little about why each person had been attracted to the group, whether for the ceremonial aspect, the spiritual side, to avoid loneliness or just (view spoiler)[ for the drugs!
(hide spoiler)]One minor comment is that the author has a strange sense of time, which I've noticed in some of the other three Alleyn books I've read too.
Death in Ecstasy by Ngaio Marsh is the 4th book in the Inspector Roderick Alleyn Mystery series. During a ceremony at the House of the Sacred Flame, the sacred vessel, Cara Quayne falls ead after drinking from the ceremonial cup having been poisoned by cyanide and Inspector Alleyn is called in to investigate. A nice solid and entertaining mystery with a limited cast of suspects and plenty of clues and red herrings to work through. A classic murder mystery with terrific narration fot the Audible version.
Better than the last one, with only a wee bit to raise the modern eyebrow. I doubt I'll ever love Marsh as well as her contemporaries, but I'm enjoying my way through these.
Journalist Nigel Bathgate is looking out of his window on a wet windy night when he spots a number of people making their way into a neighbouring building.
Nigel decides to take a look and manages to slip into the building, where he finds a strange pagan ritual in progress, with a chalice being passed around the group.
Bathgate calls his friend, Alleyn of Scotland Yard, and soon an investigation is underway into the strange group of initiates at the House of the Sacred Flame.This Golden Age mystery has an interesting collection of characters, some neat red herrings and the usual hidden secrets to be uncovered.
Weaker than usual, but still enjoyable.
The motive, usually of utmost importance, is barely touched on -- I'm fairly certain it was greed and a desire to not be outed as a thief, but it's not entirely clear.
I rather thought there was too much going on in this one, what with murder, theft, drugs, illicit sex, what appear to be gay men in the 30s which I'm quite sure was still illegal in Britain at that time (assuming one is not reading too much into the behaviour depicted, but I gather that's the general opinion), alternative religion, criminal pasts, and probably other things I've forgotten.
Regrettably, Bathgate was prominent.
This is a true Golden Age mystery, with the suave detective (Scotland Yard's inspector Alleyn), the amateur sleuth in the youthful newspaperman Nigel Bathgate, the comic American and the suspiciously well-mannered Frenchman, as well as the young drug-taker among the suspects. During the ceremonies of a small, cult-like church--attended on a whim by Bathgate--a lovely woman is murdered. Bathgate is puzzled, but the Yard follows its routine and Alleyn's insights and pins the crime on the right person. Warning: Marsh, or at least her characters, displays 1930's attitudes toward racial minorities and alternative life styles.
I love Ngaio Marsh, and although two or three characters in this one suffer in Marsh's hands in an unpleasantly stereotypical way, it is a good one to read if you are interested in how a writer, and her Detective, develop over time. This is an early Alleyn mystery, and he is far less complex and interesting here than in later novels, particularly after he is with Troy. However he is still very witty, almost in a Lord Peter Wimsey way and the story, though rather archaic in some respects is still entertaining.
I've read a number of the Marsh books recently. My mother loved these mysteries, so I have been reading through her collection. It is interesting, from a mystery standpoint, but also from a cultural view. The books I've read were written in the '40's and '50's. I enjoy seeing the change of mores and learning about how people lived on a day by day basis. Marsh is definitely not a Christian, so it is interesting to see the philosophical support for her views.
April 2018 reread: Very entertaining early Alleyn mystery, with both Fox & Bathgate helping out.
One of Marsh's earlier books, so while some of the characters are quite annoyingly arch, it isn't as bad as some of her later works. Good plotting & motivation do make this an absorbing read.
great vintage murder mystery
As a mystery, this book is great. However, the rampant homophobia in the book was really awful and resulted in a lower rating.
An intriguing start to this next Inspector Alleyn mystery - In Chester Terrace the wind caught Nigel broadside-on...the rain pelted down on his umbrella and the street lamps shone on the wet pavement.
It should be exotic and warm and there should be incense and curious rites...he crossed Chester Street and, lowering his umbrella to meet the veering wind, made for the House of the Sacred Flame.
And of course, someone was killed during a religious ceremony.(The religious leader being questioned about the deceased) "Inspector Alleyn.
We have our own words for expressing these experiences." "I hardly think I should understand them," remarked Alleyn dryly.
Nigel Bathgate has become Alleyn's 'Watson' over the books since he was first introduced.
He manages to get in and witnesses a weird ceremony, culminating with the passing around of a goblet into which each of 6 initiates pours a little wine.
The priest, Mr. Garnette, then hands it to the 'chosen vessel' who is in the center of the circle.
A doctor who is in the congregation pronounces her dead, so Bathgate forces everyone to remain and calls in Inspector Alleyn.
All of the initiates and the priest are suspects, and most of them are either lying or hiding something.
