https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5352.The_Summons
I found this book on CD at my local library.
They were having a sale, so I grabbed this CD set.This turned out to be a mystery about a son finding 3 million dollars in cash, stashed in boxes, in his deceased father's home.
Deceased father was a well respected judge.Someone knows that Ray has found this money, and is intimidating him to return it with acts of violence.
The mystery is solved in the final 2 chapters.
It was so Anti-climactic that I felt like part of the book was missing.
All pages were accounted for.What a total waste of time!!
I'm surprised to see how many readers were disappointed with this book since I thoroughly enjoyed it.
Maybe the plot was a bit thin and predictable, but Grisham's writing style is so smooth and easy to read that I was able to consume this book in two sittings.
It all starts when law professor Ray Atlee and his prodigal brother, Forrest, are summoned home by their ailing father to settle his estate.
But, by the time Ray arrives, his father is already dead.
However, Ray discovers something he hadn't planned on-- $3 million in cash stashed in the father's house.
I will continue reading Grisham.
The plot was a bit thin, but well written nonetheless. Also a pretty surprising ending.
Not a very compelling read. Good while in the small Southern town, but boring just about everywhere else. A disappointment.
Grisham has thrilled in the past, but those days are over, it appears. While I appreciated the theme of two brothers conflict over a large inheritance, and the drug addiction part was interesting, I thought I would go mad if Ray Atlee went to one more casino or hotel or restaurant or old friend or law office or rich lawyer's yacht or storage unit or private detective.... ad nauseum... Grisham is not his old self. I recommend The Firm, A Time to Kill, The Pelican Brief, The Client, The Runaway Jury, possibly The Rainmaker, and that's about it.
You know what I thought when I read this book (and King of Torts, and The Broker)?
Half of this book is devoted to the question of "did dad make his money gambling?
I don't know, let's investigate the gambling industry in tedious detail, and see!" The fact that the answer turns out to be "no" left me cross-eyed.
When you devote this many pages to the subject, sir, the reader expects it to have some bearing on the plot.Dear Reader, I'd save my time if I were you.
The Summons is a little overdramatic, but a great legal thriller heavily immersed in mystery, corruption and family dysfunction.
Boring. Predictable. Stupid. Read it only if you really hate yourself.
The plot has a fun premise. The paranoia is overplayed.
Never mind that it's only "thematic", I was really hoping there were more pages, at least an epilogue in The Summons......I wrote the above early in the morning, and then I hit the shower, during which time I thought twice about my review.
I was being selfish In a way, asking for more, I failed to dwell on the most important part of the book: the life lesson; after all, I believe lessons are what all stories are all about.
Two brothers; one, educated albeit a lawyer; the other, a dope addict for life.
All their lives, it's the lawyer who's always been the smart one, even the dope-addict brother thought so.
Somebody knows about the money and wants it.That is a pretty good set up, because it’s a nice fantasy everyone has had, finding a hoard of cash, and a good question, what would you do with it, with respect to the law, with respect to family, and especially, what would you do if your life was threatened by having the loot?But the choices for a novel are more restricted than that.
This narrator is third-person, close in to the main character, but overall, an inert narrator.I would have enjoyed a paranoid, fear-soaked cat-and-mouse chase, or maybe some clever turn-the-tables plotting, or even, since it’s Grisham, some tricky legal maneuvers.
The book I am talking about is “The Summons” by a wonderful author named John Grisham.I give this book a decent four stars because of its surprising characters and powerful storyline that has a fascinating plot that has all the characters entangled in a complex situation.
This book is a wonderful piece presented by Grisham in which he has made the story in such a way that it makes you feel like you’re part of the plot yourself!
He has organized the characters well enough and has narrated the mystery of the money with great dexterity.I enjoyed reading this book and I strongly believe that John Grisham knows how to create the best storylines ever!
Another Grisham book concluded, definitely an improvement on A Time to Kill in terms of the graphic content in the latter.
But why is there three million dollars in cash hidden in the house?This is probably the best novel I have read that demonstrates the allure and power of money when it gets a grip of a person's soul.
He might be forced to keep it himself.The problem with money and material things is the more we have of them, the more we want.
So I'm at my mom's house drooling over her book collection...Okay, I'm lying.
I'm looking over two shelves of either leftover college books in uninteresting subjects or my mother's extension collection of John Grisham books.
Two days later, I just stuffed it back with the other hardcovers thinking, "What the hell did I just read?"I told my mom I had stolen one of her books and she winced when I told her which one.
There were some other good movies I think I saw based on his books.
Judge Atlee, has summoned his sons to come home in Clanton because he is terminally ill.
He was also the judge who presides over the trial about the two wills in Sycamore Row. In that book, he was already quite ill.
With the end in sight, Judge Atlee issues a summons for both sons to return home to Clanton, to discuss the details of his estate.
Ray thinks he's the only person who knows about the cash, but soon finds out there is someone else out there who knows.
Then he starts getting notes that one person also knows about the money, at which point Ray is hassled and followed at every turn as he tries to figure out who knows and what to do about it.
Then suddenly, all becomes obvious, and here's where it all goes sour - too many clues prematurely reveal the "mystery", with a terribly silly ending that will please no one.No doubt Grisham is to the point where his books receive little editorial criticism or revision, and there's probably few wanting to risk tweaking his money machine.
What was that ending? Seriously what was that?
If the protagonist is not wholly likable, it's sort of a downer.That is the case with the main character in this book -- Ray Atlee, the older of two brothers who have grown up and grown apart from each other, as well as from their long widowed, now elderly dad.
Both sons have made homes far from the small Mississippi town where their father, a widowed and retired judge, has always lived.Ray and brother Forrest have a history of conflicts.
Ray and Forrest seem to be cooperating in the death-related tasks -- to close the father's estate, sell the old family home, etc.
Every once in a while you have to read something that isn’t deep and you are just carried along from page to page.
I’ve only read a few of his books but they are all about lawyers and usually old lawyers who die in the first few pages of the book.
Then there are surprises that come up through out the book that keep you guessing.
But, having said that I did like the book.
An old judge dies and leaves his estate to his sons.
I like the book The Testament much better and would recommend Testament over Summons.
There have been many of John Grisham books I loved, and some that just bored me. This one was a winner. I love the stories that include familiar characters. In this case we have Harry Rex that has been in the Jake Briggance books. I like him. He's funny.In this story we have a judge who dies and his estate is in question. Our main character Ray finds a fortune in the house, and then has to forfeit it. I really enjoyed it a great deal. I would definitely recommend this book to those that enjoy the Fort County stories.
I yet have to forgive myself for not giving Grisham the five stars.
I do like reading his novels.
This one started very well for me.
Yet Grisham managed to make it exciting and keep one on tense suspense to find out where the gorgeous three millions came from?
Or more exactly, what is Ray going to do with it?
Will he manage to keep it?
But, the story was unnecessary prolonged - the scene with with Ray speeding and subsequent jailing did not much to the whole and it annoyed me somewhat.
Sorry Grisham.
Got monotonous. Did not like ending.
Filled with excitement, and mystery the summons is a must read for all book lovers.
Since the judge knew that he was going to die he wrote a summon to his two sons Ray, and Foster to discuss about his estate.
Shocked by his fathers death Ray invistigates about the life of his father.The summons is a very intriguing Story.
You meet a lot of characters while you keep reading " Claudia Gates had known the judge like no one else".Your in for a mysterious ride, even though there is no action, and violence involved.
Though classified as a thriller, reading "The Summons" left me truly thrilled but only over the fact that I have finally got over with it.
It would be unfair to not mention that the main story is a captivating one, and except for the unnecessary lingering in the middle, the ending would have had a stronger impact.
Unexpected as it is, the ending leaves me not only stunned, but also confused over the fact that my perceived judgement of the main characters is not as concrete as I thought it to be.
Another excellent novel by John Grisham.Looking at other reviews of this book on Goodreads it appears that readers either loved it or hated it with no middle ground. For me who I admit love the easy way John Grisham writes and enjoys his excellent plots and character development though it was a very good read. Maybe not full of action and court cases but nevertheless plenty of intrigue and mystery.I agree certainly not the best John Grisham book but the standard is so high.
"Meh," that's all I have to say about this book. Definitely not Grisham's best. Found most of it rather dull, and Ray Atlee's decision-making skills annoyed me throughout the narrative. I'm not certain what I would do if I acquired that kind of cash, but I'm pretty sure I wouldn't act that irrationally.
DNF @ 53%. I didn't hate the writing, I hated the story.
Aunque me temía lo peor porque el principio parecía un poco lento, pero enseguida pone velocidad de crucero y toma un buen ritmo que lo acompaña hasta el final.
La trama está muy bien, el misterio, el ingenio de Ray con el dinero, el comportamiento intachable del Juez Atlee (que te desconcierta más a la hora de pensar de dónde habrá salido el dinero), y la investigación de Ray para saber de dónde provienen los tres millones de dólares.
El final me gustado mucho, da un giro que no te esperas y te desconcierta un poco, pero todo queda bien atado, dejándolo un poco también en la imaginación del lector...
I ordinarily love Grisham, but this one I could not get into.
The story was not compelling, the characters not interesting.
How the casinos check their customers or how rehabilitation centers work doesn't (or at least, in this case didn't) grab my attention.
There was too much what I call "filler" of discussions and meals with the inevitable over-indulgent lawyer friend, drives around the south with a carful of money, mysterious break-ins, threats.
I missed Grisham's humor and colorful descriptions of southern towns.
I got the feeling reading it that even Grisham himself wasn't too excited about it, but was just getting off his once-a-year obligation to his publisher.
Great book!! Not exactly the "court summons" I was expecting. Super good read
