https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10765871-glorious-nemesis
123 Pp. Cloth: £14.50.“Only those who have experienced neither dreaming nor waking distinguish between the two—and dreaming is the same as vision and as death,” says a character in Ladislav Klíma’s Glorious Nemesis, a fast-paced novella, full of creepiness and mystery, that aims to disrupt every firm distinction we make between not only the real and the imaginary, but also curiosity and obsession, innocence and guilt, mental health and an unbalanced mind.
A writer of philosophy as well as fiction, Klíma (1878-1928) finished revising this book in 1926, and Twisted Spoon has brought out its first English translation.
Why can’t modern novels be more passionately unhinged like GLORIOUS NEMESIS by Ladislav Klíma? I’m sure they’re still being written, but few of those are championed and most of what is held up as the highest expression of the form are dull and lifeless. Not this crazy piece of philosophical madness, which seeks rapture and pushes existence to the very edge before taking a great leap into the abyss. I want nothing less in my literature.
Somewhere between Nietzsche and a blind, narcotic fairytale is Ladislav Klima, writing hard prose that is deeply colored by a sense of the mystical interconnectedness of humanity and the environment but urging you to — you know — just fuck it and jump off the cliff anyhow — if only in order to control your destiny and "be like God." Suicide, horror and madness are constant preoccupations in his work. But so is a kind of mystic's sense of the beauty in the random, quotidian and the grotesque. Fun read.
Mystical love-horror to die for. Read it and weep until the tears laugh at you.
Sider...Sander.... its a three letter difference- it means....it means....little.
Slovenskemu prevodu Slavne Nemeze je pridana še Klimova Avtobiografija. V Nemezi se srečata ekscentrikova praktična filozofija in surrealistične poteze, ki kasneje, v mrzli češkoslovaški dobi normalzacije pomembno vpliva na disidentske "Plastike".
Dear gods this looks absolutely amazing.
I read this book because I recently moved to the Czech Republic and was looking to find some new authors.
The blurb on the back caught my attention because it reminded of themes I came across in other books written by Central European authors such as Kafka, Kundera and Hesse.
It's a very fast and entertaining read, and was probably radical at it's time, but in comparison to other authors who have tackled similar themes, Klimsa is much less elegant.
This starts of as a ghost story but soon enough you realise it is so much more! Very weird and yet fascinatingly intriguing, it subtly deals with some metaphysical concepts like reincarnation, karma, moksha etc that are all too common in India and yet to think these are coming from a Czech author who wrote this book in the early 1900s!Will definitely recommend it. It's short, crisp, fast paced and very lucid. Kudos to the publisher for unearthing this rare gem for English language readers
Klíma wrote to expound on his philosophy according to the afterword, About The Author. A radical subjective idealist, he developed metaphysical systems of egosolism and deoessence, which according to the afterword is the condition of "the subject fully understanding his substance and becoming the creator of his own divinity."The story is surreal, compelling, and full of observances about the human condition. It's really good.If I had read this as a younger man, it might have profoundly altered my life's course.
Love death blood horror mountains madness collective consciousness stirb und werde! Deoessence, the absolute, not just Redbull gives you wings. Central European, early 20th century, thinking man's ghost story with philosophical overtones and a storyline that turns the screw like the Golem with a bit of Frankenstein and Dracula mixed in.
Described as a "Baladic ghost story" Glorious Nemesis succeeds in plumbing the depths of love and death, crime and reincarnation. Quite strange.
Čtena jen Slavná Nemesis. Sice jsem se ztrácela a ten konec byl dost WTF, ale účel to splnilo. Užila jsem si to. 3.5/5*
http://www.ceskapozice.cz/en/blog/mic...
A kind of reality that is totally subject to the will of a sinner seeking divinity through his unordinary victims.
It's a bit like Murakami but Czech. This is not a bad thing.
