https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/66695.Sojourn
Drizzt the Dark Elf comes to the surface world and tries to find his place in there.
I also thought about the following while reading: It did not help any that Drizzt was on practically non-stop guilt trip for something which was not his fault in the least: Somehow I missed the moment where a badass guy who survived all the double-crossings of the Drow society became Mary Sue, or Gary Stu if you wish.
It is shame as the beginning of the book was quite good.
Unfortunately the book could not keep up with the fairly exciting beginning.
Drizzt Do'Urden attempts to find himself on the surface; arguably a more fascinating journey of self-exploration than all the young and rich Westerners who go to find themselves in Thailand or India (no offense to Thailand or India).Anyway, Sojourn is another enjoyable instalment in the saga of Drizzt. This one wraps up the trilogy neatly, takes it into more interesting territories of storytelling, and sets everything up for where Salvatore's story all began: Icewind Dale.
This final book in the Dark Elf trilogy got off to a flying start for the first third of the book and then rather disappointingly stagnated.I thought Drizzt hitting the surface world would be a ton of fun, and the early stages were promising with a few hilarious interactions and plenty of drama.
Drizzt found few friends and the only one who got much screen time was the aging Montolio.
He was a likable enough guy who sought to help Drizzt, but there is no hiding from the fact that the time Drizzt spent with him was utterly boring.Things picked up a bit towards the very end so that hints at more promising happenings for the next book in the series.

I didn't like this as much as the other two.I believe the first in this trilogy was my favorite, and then it slowly started going down hill from there.Drizzt Do'Urden has travelled out of the caves into the surface world.
As Drizzt works hard in order to overcome prejudices, there was a lot of down time.
He spent the majority of this book attempting to get to know the difference races of the surface, usually unsuccessfully.
When he does find a friend, the majority of their time is spent learning/teaching rather than anything else, and while I was glad he found a friend, it just seemed to drag on.I was bored.
So I definitely don't recommend reading the epilogue because now I feel like I've been spoiled for the next trilogy in the world.
These books are nothing crazy deep, but they're really fun, enjoyable reads packed with a lot of fighting and action scenes.
His struggles were pretty on par for what I thought this book would tackle.
I hope the ones that are alive at the end of the book pop back into the story at some point.
I'm looking forward to seeing where Drizzt's adventure goes next in the Icewind Dale Trilogy.
Πρόσεχε τι εύχεσαι λένε γιατί μπορεί να πραγματοποιηθείΈτσι λοιπόν, το μικρό μας dark elf ανέβηκε στον υπέργειο κόσμο, όπου... δεν αντιμετωπίζεται πολύ διαφορετικά από τον παλιό του κόσμο... Βέβαια, ο Ντριντζ είναι, δεν το βάζει κάτω και προσπαθεί να κατανοήσει τον τρόπο που λειτουργεί η καινούρια του πατρίδα! Δολοπλοκίες, μυστικά, μάχες, φίλοι, εχθροί και ένας συμπαθέστατος ήρωας στο κλείσιμο της θρυλικής τριλογίας του Σαλβατόρε που δημιούργησε το Forgotten RealmsΌρμα τους Ντριντζ!!!!
Έχοντας πλέον απομακρυνθεί απο τις υπόγειες σπηλιές του Άντερνταρκ και έχοντας αφήσει πίσω όλα όσα τρομέρα συνέβησαν στον ίδιο, αλλά και σε πρόσωπα που αγαπούσε, ο Ντρίτζτ Ντο Έρντεν περιπλανιέται στον γεμάτο κινδύνους υπέργειο κόσμο, με βασικό σκοπό να κερδίσει την αποδοχή των <<περίεργων>> και επικίνδυνων κατοίκων της νέας του πατρίδας.
Η τριλογία ολοκληρώνεται με τον πλέον εμφατικό τρόπο, λειτουργώντας ταυτόχρονα και ως εισαγωγή για τη υπόλοιπη σειρά!Το βιβλίο -ξενιτιά- έχει όλα όσα αγαπήσαμε στα δυο βιβλία που προηγήθηκαν.
Μάχες, δολοπλοκίες, προδοσίες και παράξενα πλάσματα σ΄ένα βιβλίο που πραγματικά απολαμβάνεις κάθε του σελίδα!
There was a lot going on in this one. Drizzt spends like 7 years on the surface through a series of tragic events and misunderstandings. He finds acceptance (though from afar) from one of his surface elf kin and a very old blind human ranger. He defeats an Orc leader and tricks a dragon along the way, all while getting chased by bounty hunter Roddy McGristle, a crazed and less imposing version of John Wick. "He killed my dog!" Roddy growled."Don't look dead to me," Bruenor quipped, drawing chuck
He finds acceptance (though from afar) from one of his surface elf kin and a very old blind human ranger.
After a last confrontation with Roddy, he finally finds his "home" alongside dwarven king Bruenor and his adopted human daughter, Cattie-brie.My favorite part of this book was Cattie-brie.
Drizzt and Cattie-brie are sweet cinnamon rolls and I want to read more about them immediately.
Cattie-brie's singsong voice and the careless way she flipped her flowing hair about her shoulders lifted the burden of guilt from Drizzt's back as surely as a giant could have hoisted a rock.
www.melissa413readsalot.blogspot.comOnly the third book in and I'm still loving Drizzt Do'Urden!In this book Drizzt is trying to live in the real world now and no longer in the Underdark.
He is trying to learn how to live in the sunlight without going blind so to speak and traverse this strange new world.
He was an old blind ranger living in the mountains, he trains Drizzt in the human language and about things in the world.
I liked how the book ended with Drizzt finding a home with some new friends, including Catti-brie who was fearless in taking up for him, and she was just a little girl.
Awesome conclusion to the first trilogy. Just what you would expect from this kind of novel. Quick, easy with enough action and world/character building to keep you interested, leaving room for the many books that come after. 4 stars
Actual Ratings: 4.75 RTC
Of the Drizzt “origins” trilogy this one moved me the most, and contained the most surprises. You can tell Salvatore in this book is relieved to get out of the underdark. He fills the book with lush descriptions of the woods, streams, the loneliness and beauty of the wild places. He also describes the pioneer spirit of a community on the outskirts of civilization. He brings Drizzt agonizingly close to becoming accepted by a real family, only to in complete shocker and his best plot surprise to
He brings Drizzt agonizingly close to becoming accepted by a real family, only to in complete shocker and his best plot surprise to date, have them murdered in cold blood.
The best way to describe the characters movement from isolation to acceptance, and the way salvatore describes it, is to show him getting close to building a relationship with people only to lose it time and again.
You are also kind of surprised at the way Salvatore doesn’t pull punches and kills of characters he was at pains to describe.
I also was moved by the way Drizzt serves his apprenticeship and learns to become useful.
Liked less because the Underdark suddenly went somewhere, and - a blind goodly ranger with a whole heap of animal friends?
AND a major thing.
Drizzt has always seemed to be a fighter as far as I'm concerned.
No ranger-thing there.
It's just weird.
He rarely shows any ranger skills at all, except for sneaking around - and that's something any light-weight rogue/fencer can do.
Plus, he's a drow, for goodness's sake.
Plus, he cannot see well during the day.
come on.
I like my daily plate of logic, thank you very much.
"Sojourn" is the last book in the Dark Elf Trilogy, and what an epic conclusion it is!
Salvatore does a magnificent job portraying Drizzt in a sympathetic light as the dark elf tries desperately to assimilate into his new home.
While I thought the villains of the last two books were phenomenal adversaries, I did feel the antagonists of "Sojourn" were nowhere near as compelling as Drizzt's twisted family members were.
Again, a small quibble, but one that kept this from being my favorite entry of the trilogy.So, if I had to rank the books in the Dark Elf Trilogy from favorite to least favorite, the order would be "Homeland", "Sojourn", 'Exile".
Third volume of back-story for Drizzt Do’Urden, drow fighter extraordinaire.
This is the volume that connects to the Icewind Dale novels which Salvatore wrote before the Dark Elf Trilogy.Our hero makes the shift from living as an exile in the Underdark to an existence in the unfamiliar world above ground.
Can he find people who will acknowledge that he is not an evil drow?
Will he finally find someone to call friend and assuage his life-long loneliness?Once again, the plot is driven by fight sequences, something which Salvatore seems to prefer writing.
There’s a lot of dark brooding, but not much real self-reflection by the characters.
Τον R.A. Salvatore δεν τον είχα πάρει με καλό μάτι και έτσι απέφευγα να ασχοληθώ μαζί του, τελικά όμως η περιέργεια νίκησε και έπιασα αυτή την τριλογία. Το αποτέλεσμα τελικά μάλλον δεν με ικανοποιεί αν και αναγνωρίζω ότι δεν είναι κακά βιβλία. Ίσως αν τα διάβαζα σε νεαρότερη ηλικία τα πράγματα να ήταν διαφορετικά.
RTC!
Kara Elf Üçlemesi bu kitapla son buldu ama bu üçleme Drizzt Efsanesi için iyi bir başlangıçtı. Drizzt'i sevdim ve diğer kitaplarını da okumak istiyorum. Seri biraz klişelerden biraz özgünlüklerden beslense de ortaya çıkan sonuç iyi, insanda devamını okuma isteği uyandırıyor, bir şekilde kendini sevdiriyor. Serinin en sevdiğim yönlerinden biri -kesinlikle- Drizzt'in ruhsal karmaşası.
So many writers regurgitate the same themes, ideas, and characters in their books that the lack of original ideas or thoughts is often disappointing.The Dark Elf Trilogy uncovers the previously unveiled world known as "The Underdark".
While he cannot put name to the traits he finds so lacking around him, he knows that the dark elf race is evil, and he eventually discovers that he doesn't belong.
This trilogy is the story of Drizzt's journey as he grows through his early years, trains in the weapons and tactics of his race, and learns ultimately that he can not live among them for fear of compromising or losing altogether his sense of good and his recognition of evil.
More rhetoric.So I got to the Drizzt story I really wanted to read in the first place, and this series has lost momentum for me.
The Crystal Shard (the next book in the series) sits unread on my ipad and I don't know if i'll get to it or not.Sojourn had its intriguing segments; Im still interested in the fundamental concept of Drizzt.
But once again, I was put off by Salvatores style and presentation.
Ultimately unsatisfying.Im left to wonder at the state of fantasy literature (using that term lightly) when authors like Salvatore and Terry Goodkind consistently churn out best sellers in this genre.Of course, what do I know?
3.0 stars. Good, solid sword and sorcery novel set in the Forgotten Realms. The part I really liked about this novel is the plethora of interesting characters and races including the Barghest whelps (Goblin werewolves) and the winter wolves (larger wolves with human-like intelligence) were very cool. Unfortunately, I did not find the plot as interesting as I would have liked and didn't think the background of interesting creatures (strengths/weaknesses, etc) were explored enough to make them more then two dimensional. In the end, it was pretty good just not great.
I didn't expect anything from this trilogy and I started reading it without really knowing anything about the book or the world, but I must say I was surprised by how good it was! I am really excited for book four!
Well, I read the first 3 books in this series in just under 2 weeks, I think.
I cannot believe there are 11 more to read!This book, like the 2 before it, was fun to read, did a great job of continuing the story, and had such a colorful cast of characters (referring to the species that appeared throughout this book, AND the series so far, as well as how they were portrayed).
That was one of the coolest points about the reading experience here, I think.
Anyway, a great and relaxing set of stories!
4.5 ✨ for the book.
I'm really enjoying the world.
In Exile, he goes above into the bright world, and the neatest thing about this story is how he adjusts to that, having to learn about basic things like day and night, season changes, wildlife, the different races and of course, a whole new raft of monsters and fiends.
But he keeps evolving, makes an excellent friend and learns to be a ranger, just his kind of thing.This book doesn't end where it seems it should, but keeps going to set up the next part of the series.
I started this set of Drizzt books thinking they were favorites but I find myself looking more forward to stuff that is coming up.
Homeland was great fun and gave good insight into the Drow....well homeland.
The whole purpose of the book to get Drizzt to finally leave the underdark.
And again this book, Sojourn, all lead up to the last fifty pages or so.
I did enjoy Dove, Fret, and Kellindil and their hunt for the truth behind the Drow.
In my opinion an entire book from this point of view would have been interesting.
Enjoyed this more than the first two - probably due to the setting, after all those subterranean passages of the first two, nice to finally get above ground!!Not a great deal of story as such, but a nice easy and enjoyable read (I read it in a day!)
This is very much a character driven novel were the sole purpose is for Drizzt to come into his own and find a place he can call home.
Dark elves are evil and commit atrocities on a daily bases, so it's no surprise that Drizzt, in his pursuit of happiness and a new home, is immediately confronted with discrimination and hostility.
Also, the first to give Drizzt a hug.There wasn't anything I particularly disliked in this novel, but as I mentioned before, the lack of plot was something I couldn't ignore.
Uhm.. This felt like a filler book.
