https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/920412.The_Secret_of_Childhood
There are few books on children that I have read that are better than this one.
She would have a much better understanding of adults.
Some of her methods though and even some of her observations speak to her lack of ability to see what "real" children look like i.e. she knows kids are deprived of respect and the power to learn what they want to but she does not realize that kids who are treated with respect and allowed to learn what they want to won't go through a "no" phase or be particularly anal.
أول كتاب من مجموعه ماريا منتسورى أقراه أخد منى وقت كبير على ما قريته يمكن لان ديه اول مره أقرأ كتاب بالعمق ده ولان قرأتى معظمها كانت من الروايات بشكل عام الكتاب فى معلومات كتير عن طريقة ماريا منتسورى يمكن قرأت معظمها قبل كده بس كان فيه ومضات بين السطور كده عجبتنى قوى ومن اكتر الجزئيات اللى شدتنى فى الكتاب الفصل اللى بيتكلم عن بيوت الاطفال وازاى بدات معاهم منتسورى من الصفر وتطورهم السلوكى والتعليمى وازاى تحولوا الى أطفال كالكبار فى تصرفاتهم
Cho 3 sao vì nó cứu rỗi mình trong giờ quốc phòng, khi mình cảm thấy bản thân đúng là đứa trẻ khốn khổ bị giam kín trong bốn bức ván như lời tác giả nói.
Nhưng sách cũng có một số điều cũng thú vị,nếu mai này có con vẫn còn nhớ thì sẽ bớt làm khổ con khổ mình, ví dụ như lý do trẻ ăn chậm, hay vì sao trẻ dễ mất tập trung,v.v.Còn những triết lý giáo dục gắn với tôn giáo thì mình chịu, không cảm được.
I marked it 5 because reading this book was an excellent journey towards the children's world!
I learned a lot about the children's psychological needs and about their world.
I was really astonished that this book was written more than 100 years ago because unfortunately Maria Montessori deliberately and accurately addressed problems our schools still suffer from.
The Montessori method gives a lot of solutions for the problems in our schools.
I truly wish that this method will be more adopted by schools in the Arab world because education should be way more than giving students knowledge and sending them home!!!
And this lack of consideration makes the child think that his own activities are of no value.A final need is for adults to appreciate the differences in perceptive faculties of children, who, as Montessori describes, pay attention to details not just different in magnitude, but in kind.A child's psychic personality is far different from our own, and it is different in kind and not simply degree.Adults are accustomed to looking at the world and paying attention to details in a particular way based upon their individual goals, ambitions, professional outlook, educational level, etc.
Maria Montessori was brilliant.
I wish she were still alive today so that we could glean from her wisdom on current topics of debate.
This book shared some similar principles I read in The Conscious Parent, but this book was written almost 100 years ago.
In this book, she shares with us the secret of childhood, which is essentially: The child knows what they are doing, and we should not interrupt them from their work.
“It is evident that society should lavish upon children the greatest care so that it may in turn receive from the child new energies and potentialities.”
Excellent read. This is my first exposure to Dr Montessori's pedagogy and her philosophy with regards to children. It is so refreshing and eye-opening. In particular, I enjoyed reading and learning about the "sensitive periods," the rhythm of the child, and observations about children which led to the development of her "Method." The short chapter on The Spiritual Preparation of the Teacher serves as a very good examination of conscience for teachers of young children, as well as for parents. Bonus: Dr Montessori, as a devout Catholic, lets her faith guide and pervade her vision and writing. Beautiful analogies.
الكتاب عميق اوى ومدى بعد غريب للطفل اول مرة الاحظه. الترجمة كانت محبطة وغير دقيقة فى اوقات كتير
Montessori se v něm svěřuje hlavně se svými zkušenostmi s pozorováním dětí a svojí cestou k vytváření ideálních podmínek pro jejich rozvoj a otevřeně k tomu doplňuje svoje osobní komentáře - neskrývá svoje legendární neutuchající nadšení nad přirozeností dětského chování, svoje překvapení ze zkušeností popírajících v té době všeobecně přijímané představy o dětské psychice.
Místy mě jen zaráželo, s jakou hořkostí Montessori mluví o všeobecných tendencích ve výchově dětí v té době.
However, style aside the book offered great insights into behavior of little children and emphasized the need for good environment for them - both in form of adult mindset and of things that they can use and are custom built for their little size.
The biggest take away is that a child needs an adult to help the child learn to do things by himself or herself.
Adults who impose their own ideas of good versus bad and are constantly correcting or inhibiting the child from work and learning, break the child’s spirit and happiness.
Hay que notar que Montessori está influenciada por la apogeo de la sicoanálisis y su aplicación en el descubrimiento del niño.
Siendo yo misma un "producto" de una escuela primaria inspirada de la pedagogía Montessori, reconozco mucho de lo que expone aquí y por fin, como adulto, comprendo lo que hubo más allá de mis educadores.
Recomiendo el libro a todo adulto que piensa que tiene que INCULCAR conocimiento o "maneras" a los niños; que opina que los niños son ignorante tontos que hay que domar.
Skvělá kniha pro všechno, kteří chtějí trochu přemýšlet nad "výchovou" dítěte. Maria Montessori dost nadčasově popisuje vnitřní vývoj dítěte a ty fáze, které má projít. Zároveň ale i varuje, že tomu tak v mnohých případech není a popisuje konkrétní následky. Jestli tohle všechno zjistila působením ve školách pro chudé děti, tak kloubouk dolů. Povinná četba pro všechny bdělé rodiče.
Une révélation ! Un livre qui date de 1936 mais qui résonne encore aujourd'hui. Des enseignements "qui vont de soi", mais qui ont dû attendre Maria Montessori pour être connus du grand public. Dommage que cette vision ne soit pas encore la norme, cela changerait la donne pour plus d'un enfant incompris du système...
First of all, this book is treasure but if you are looking for learning ''Montessori Method'', you are not in the right place. But this book is really helpful for understanding children's spirit and mind. It's gonna give you a different perspective about children. Montessori said ''The child is the father of man''.
It was great to read Maria Montessori’s theory of child development in her own words, but it was tough going. Dense with science, biology and religion, and short on helpful details, but she did share a few pearls of wisdom to make it worthwhile.
Wish I would have read this before raising my children!
My all time favourite philosopher, Wish teachers who are going into the field as earlychilhood caregivers read this book so they will have an insight of the needs of a child.
In quest'opera Maria Montessori tratteggia i 3 capisaldi del suo pensiero: un ambiente a misura di bambino; una maestra umile e che intervenga il meno possibile (soltanto cioè quando è il bambino stesso a chiedere l'aiuto); il materiale sensoriale e le attività di vita pratiche funzionali allo sviluppo di un bambino ordinato, rispettoso e sereno, capace di giungere, in età prescolare, alla conquista della scrittura e della lettura. <>
If a child could express himself, he would certainly tell us that deep down he has little confidence in us, just as we have little confidence in him, since our separate ways of thinking are so foreign to each other."page 81: "His upper limbs become instruments of his intelligence rather than means of locomotion."page 88: "An adult who does not understand that a child needs to use his hands and does not recognize this as the first manifestation of an instinct for work can be an obstacle to the child's development."page 96: "A child develops through personal effort and engagement.
"Eventually we gave up either punishing or rewarding the children." (My understanding: the key being the environment leading to the creation of inner/self-discipline).My other favorite part is the story she relates of teaching the children how to blow one's nose.
When I see such things I think that it must be the angels who are inspiring these children.'""[The teacher] told me: 'They do so exactly what I tell them that I am beginning to feel responsible for every word I say.'""To those who do not understand its true nature, original sin may seem unjust an unreasonable since it involves the condemnation of all of Adam's descendants.
This book is better than 'The Absorbent Mind.' Reading MM's own words helps me to understand (and take with a grain of salt) some of the interpretations of her observations and instructions as manifest in Montessori groups on Facebook / other communities.
A few of the many, many things I highlighted:"We must wake up to the great reality that children have a psychic life whose delicate manifestations escape notice and whose pattern of activity can be unconsciously disrupted by adults." "A child must start from nothing and make his way into the company of adults.
These help to mold his intelligence...By means of his constant efforts, experiences, sorrows, and conquests of difficult trials and struggles, a child slowly perfects his activities.
I've been interested in Montessori style education since having my son, and we have implemented some Montessori ideas in his room and with his toys/learning materials (a floor bed in his room, toys and books within reach, simple stacking and sorting toys...along with the inevitable V Tech talking things) This is her first book I believe, and details out how she got started working in schools with children.
Some of her ideas were a bit odd to me, such as the idea that children really have no need to play, but rather want to work.
And that deviation from the 'normal' has an impact on the child when he grows up to be an adult.Montessori developed her philosophies and theories based on her personal experiences and her study on animals' behaviour and development, which I find very interesting.
She raised a great point that parents only want children to do better academically in education because of social obligation, in which I think is still relevant in today's society!
The 'sensitive windows' make sense as well.There's still so much relevance to our education and society today that I think it's gifted for Montessori to already been thinking about the secrets and rights of the child in the 19th Century.
I was expecting it to be more along the lines of Dr. Montessori's earlier book, The Montessori Method where she went into more depth of exactly how she came to the conclusions on child development that she did.
But she didn't - it was a more philosophical book on liberating the child without as many examples of how or why she came to these conclusions from things her students did or said.
I often found her philosophy at odds with her professed Catholic faith - and both are very profound in this book.
Furthermore, as a new parent, it has a multi-faceted approach to discussing child development, psychology, and sociological conditions that affect growth, and also serve as reminders and insights to ones own childhood.
As well as a brief, fleeting glimpse in the mind of a child.
It's not strictly about parenting, as only the very last chapter is directly aimed at parents; however, it is full of information on children, parenthood, education, nature, science, and more; and I'm glad to consider it the first book on parenting I read.
My favourite Montessori book is The Secret of Childhood.
As I read this book, it opened my eyes to show the world of the child.
I was able to better communicate with children and I saw what other adults did not see.
It was like I had entered a secret garden in which only special adults with special seeing powers could enter.
Montessori allowed me to reach out and build connections with children, including my close loved ones.
Montessori has taught me that all children are our own and in this way we will build a better society for all.
The Secret of Childhood is the best place to find Montessori's early thinking about human development for ages 3-6.
It includes numerous stories and anecdotes and differ from The Absorbent Mind in subtle ways.
It seems less theoretical and more experiential, with more (and better) specific stories of children and their development.
The Secret of Childhood, it turns out, is also the hidden key to the future of humanity.
Two images that this book evokes, as Montessori details the way we treat children in our world:We are butterflies tearing open cocoons and bidding the larvae fly.We are frogs, dragging the tadpoles out and trying to make them breathe through lungs, to become green like us.
Montessori was born in 1870-- science was something different then-- sperm cells were still "invisible," the mechanism of genetic inheritance was unknown.
Within that context, Montessori's approach is even more remarkable.
Her language, to modern ears, is oddly neither here nor there-- psuedo-scientific sounding with rhapsodaic odes to the psychic lives of children.
But she was, we have to remember, the first to say that children are on a path of self-actualization that adults can make space for or thwart.
I would love to get deeper into her universe-- understand her influences and the context in which her ideas were received.
Out of the three Montessori Method reads I have consumed, I say this one has been the most relevant. Put into perspective my own behavior as the key to nurture her tendencies. Although for me and my nine month old, these things seem at a distant future, really, the understanding should be established now. For their nature begins at day one. Harmony within the home is a high importance. Science concludes all of this. And what love touched these written pages !
I decided to reread Montessori's writing upon returning to work at a Montessori School. This book affirmed why Montessorians do what they do. The reasoning behind Montessori's writing is profound. I seek to continue to embrace the philosophy in my own life as well as my professional life. Respecting the child and allowing their independence within boundaries. I blogged my way through the book starting in August 2014: www.MontessoriPhilosphy.wordpress.com
