https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/56616.Double_Indemnity
I love writing about books.Walter Huff met a woman.
Now I'm not saying she is an angel I'm just saying she ran into a guy that even surprised himself with what he was willing to do with the hope of getting the girl.Huff has made a career out of reading people and when he meets Phyllis she asks him a handful of suggestive questions and the guy is already formulating a full blown plan for insurance fraud.
In college I took a film and novel class and Mildred Pierce was one of the books/movies on the syllabus.
Double as good!  BOOK TO FILM I watched the film adaptation of Double Indemnity and I loved it!I think that the look of the actress Barbara Stanwyck is the very definition of a femme fatale. I am aware of other great examples like Rita Hayworth in Gilda, Lana Turner in The Postman always rings twice or Lauren Bacall in The Big Sleep to name a few, but when the term of “femme fatale” comes to mind, the image of Barbara Stanwyck in Double Indemnity is my first thought.When I watched for the first
I am not saying that we aren’t able to do such kind of things, only I comment that the character of Walter Huff, in the novel, lacks of a some convincing reason to agree so dang fast to get deep in misdeed.Another factor that I enjoyed about the book is that while it's clearly a noir story, instead of having a private detective as the main character, the story doesn't have any private detective at all (Sure, Keyes does many investigative work in his position in the Insurance Company, but he's not a private detective) and also, the story is told from the point of view of the culprit ones.Double Indemnity is a smart story, with an engaging narrative, showing the dark side of human nature and how a couple can coldy design, step-by-step, the perfect way to murder a person in order to get money, and how the chaos of real life is ruthless with everybody, good or bad.
Ooh la la...the femme fatale... Intelligent, gorgeous, self-assured and drenched in enough sexual allure to stop a heart at 50 paces. These cold, calculating foxes are nature's consummate predators, guaranteed to ensnare any man by his short and curlies faster and tighter than a rusty zipper. In fact, the only adversary more likely to separate a man from his giblets is the femme bot toting high caliber machine-gun jubblies. Well, Double Indemnity has one of the most memorable of these vile, vexi
All aboard...At the risk of sounding oxymoronical, Walter comes across as a decent bloke provided you discount the positively reprehensible actions in which he finds himself a willing and active participant.
As detailed, intricate and well-crafted a plot as I have witnessed in my time with crime fiction and I was awed by how on cue every element of the story was.
Well, because of Walter’s own ethical deficiencies, the pay off is not as sadistically satisfying as it would have been if Walter had been truly worthy of sympathy.
What is it with this James Cain?
First, I tried reading The Postman Always Rings Twice to prepare for my civil service exam, but it was all about murder and didn’t have anything at all about postal regulations.
Then I read Double Indemnity to try and become an insurance agent and once again, it’s nothing but a guy getting busy with another man's wife and then plotting to kill him.
At least this one actually had some stuff about the insurance industry, and I did learn a bit about fraud.
Still, it was mostly about murder.
This Cain must have had a lot of problems.
However, Walter needs a partner, that is, an outside plant, a customer willing to join him in playing the game, in placing a bet, in putting the chips down in a gamble to commit a murder that will look like suicide so he and his partner can collect big time, double indemnity, on the life insurance policy.Walter finds his plant in Phyllis who lives with her husband and stepdaughter in that Spanish house in Hollywoodland, a house looking like all the others .
Phyllis is more than happy to join Walter in killing her husband to collect the money.
Cain was a man who didn't believe in foreplay.Foreplay?
Turns out the job was sloppy and the doll's a wench.That's all it takes, one drop of fear, to curdle love into hate.Ah, Mr. Cain knows how to cut right to the chase.
Always.And, even though foreplay can be so appealing in far better developed novels, I find that I don't need it here.
Like, blowing bubbles with a giant wad of gum in your mouth fun.
Like, pink bubble gum fun.(Three stars when compared to The Postman Always Rings Twice and Mildred Pierce).
I was having lunch with someone when we got around to talking about my love for Crime Mystery Fiction and they suggested this as their favorite of those type books.
(It rarely ever is, right?) As love and loyalty to one's work complicated things even more, this story becomes all that much more exciting.
There's affairs, death, family troubles, more death, love, DEATH...yeah, it's good.
Who should read it?: If you like crime and/or mysteries, or even more the femme fatale style of writing then I think you'll enjoy this one.
Cain really packs a nasty punch.Insurance investigator Walter Huff falls under the charm of the wildly wicked Phyllis Nirdlinger to help bump off her controlling but dull husband to claim a life insurance policy that contains a double indemnity clause, meaning twice the amount is payed on death from certain circumstances (in this case falling off the back of a train), but she needs Walter to close the deal, which he agrees.
The murder itself is carried through without any glitches (or so it would first seem), before a college of Walter starts to suspect foul play, and of course from here, you can forget about any happy ending.
The novel is carried forward using a brilliant narrative full of sharp sentences, which are direct, and to the point.
Many, including >moi, saw it coming on p2, but let me assure you that, while almost fanning the last pages of this short novel in your haste to find out what you probably already know is going to happen, you will not be bored.Or if you are, please, if you value our friendship, don't tell me.My Review: *gruntled sigh* Noir books and films explain, if one needs an explanation, the concept "it hurts so good." The characters are low, vulgar trollops and cads (my favorite kind of people!), and the good guys...the cops, the mothers, the priests...are all such knobs, such squares, so unspeakably unhip as to be dismissable.Yeah, that's a life worth livin', that is.
(Of course, by that reasoning, I'd read John Cheever and John Updike like a madman, with their dull straight boys lusting after slatternly women, this being the polar opposite of my own needs and desires.
Walter Huff is an insurance salesman who gets mixed up with a man's attractive young wife and together they conspire to murder him.
While waiting for the heat to die down, Huff gets involved with the woman's stepdaughter and things spiral out of control...While I wouldn't go as far as to call this my favorite noir novel, it's definitely as good as, if not better than, The Postman Always Rings Twice.
The way Walter and Phyllis murder her husband is both outlandish and extremely plausible.
When it comes out that Phyllis is a sociopath, you feel for Walter despite knowing he's a murderer.
One of the most tightly written books I've ever read, by the godfather of the type of noir fiction that I love. Not. A. Word. Wasted. In the book, Walter Huff goes to the Hollywood Hills to sell a car insurance renewal to Mr. Nirdlinger. But he gets caught up and starts falling hard for  Mrs.  Nirdlinger, who doesn't waste any time asking about accident insurance. We can pretty much guess where that leads! But even though we know where this is going, like a car crash, we can't take our eyes away
In the book, Walter Huff goes to the Hollywood Hills to sell a car insurance renewal to Mr. Nirdlinger.
Nirdlinger, who doesn't waste any time asking about accident insurance.
But even though we know where this is going, like a car crash, we can't take our eyes away.
This is one of the closest examples of a perfect book to me but falls a bit short because of that strange resolution.
If it had Postman's ending (or the movie adaptation's ending) it would be perfect!
But still, it feels like Cain took everything good about Postman and ramped it up a notch here.
OMG! I cannot believe the ending!Plain old downright great entertainment here from beginning to end with Cain's story of how to commit the perfect murder.While I was totally engrossed in the telling, there were a couple of times I had to stretch my imagination a bit, but I loved it just the same, and oh that ending......raised my rating up a whole star!
My god, the utter callousness of it all!It's not too spoilery to give you a summary of the book, however, if you intend to read Double Indemnity, I'd suggest not reading the next two sentences.
SUMMARY: A woman consults an insurance agent about taking out a special kind of insurance on her husband, the kind which sends up red flags for the agent, red flags which he ignores.
Cain, so the writing for the genre is fantastic.
This isn't cops-n-robbers crime, this is crime straight out of the newspapers...exactly where former journalist Cain got the salacious story.
There's a reason this is a classic and has stood the test of time, and you only have to read the first few pages to fully understand why.
It all starts with a delicious chill up your spine, your eyeballs riveted to the page, your breath held, the "gotta know what happens next" monster rattling the bars of his cage.
Barbara Stanwyck as Phyllis is THE femme fatale, yet there is so much nuance and depth missing from her character in the film (in what is already an amazing performance).
Cain's Phyllis is so much more than a sultry seductress and the cold-blooded spider hanging in her web.
"No one has ever stopped reading in the middle of one Jim Cain's book." - Saturday Review of LiteratureThis is true.
Well, I have not seen the movie adaptation of this book while when I read "Postman," I had already seen and liked the Jack Nicholson-Jessica Lange movie in the 80's so I already knew what would happen.
The story is about Walter Huff an insurance agent who falls in love with a married woman, Phyllis Nirdlinger.
They meet when Huff passes by the house of his client, Phyllis' husband, to remind him of the insurance that is about to expire.

A day in the life of an insurance salesman, who looks for some extra bucks and meets a woman who wants to make more than just a few bucks.
He thinks he knows all the tricks and has a plan, will it work?
Hard boiled noir style thriller really keeps you wanting to see how the plan unfolds.
"All right, I'm an agent.
I'm a croupier in that game.
I know all their tricks, I lie awake nights thinking up tricks, so I'll be ready for them when they come at me.
And then one night I think up a trick, and g
It seems Raymond Chandler rewrote story in the screenplay.From Wikipedia about the movie and book..James M.
The front page photo of Snyder's execution in the electric chair at Sing Sing has been called the most famous newsphoto of the 1920sInitially, Wilder and Chandler had intended to retain as much of Cain’s original dialogue as possible.
To his astonishment, Chandler was right and, in the end, the movie’s cynical and provocative dialogue was more Chandler and Wilder than it was CainCain himself was very pleased with the way his book turned out on the screen.
Sin lugar a dudas es una buena historia, con "femme fatale" incluida. Sin embago, lo que me ha llamado la atención de esta historia es su autor. Parece ser que le gustaban las novelas románticas, pero después de escribir El cartero siempre llama dos veces, ya no hubo manera de dar marcha atrás y escribir historias románticas.
Double Indemnity (1935) is written by the same author, James Cain, who wrote The Postman Always Rings Twice, which I also just read.
and I never want to see her again as long as I lived.”But then things get (even more) complicated, involving the step-daughter of the woman.
It’s short, like Postman, so you can read it or listen to it in a couple-three hours.
This is a great and classic noir tale, much lauded, from one of the greats, made into a classic film I’ll again soon see, yay.PS: And both resaw it, wow, and read the screenplay by Billy Wilder and Raymond Chandler, double wow.
Avide maree Un ottimo noir, attraversato con intensità da passioni fatali e enigmatiche: una storia progettata con creatività e sapienza, che delinea un orizzonte umano inquietante e dipinge personaggi profondi e originali, mentre perseguono volontà determinanti.
L'autore rende concreta e verosimile una psicologia prismatica e senza legge, con una tecnica sofisticata e selvaggia, senza mai perdere il centro del racconto e disfacendosi di ogni ipotesi prevedibile.
Ombre, paure e desideri disegnano un destino tragico e inevitabile, mentre l'inganno e la finzione pervadono ogni sorta di emozione e sentimento, saturando il cristallo del reale di luci spettrali e atmosfere diaboliche.
Uno sguardo spietato sulle nostre naturali inclinazioni.
Gialli inclusi.
Ben scritto, essenziale, diretto, preciso, incalzante.Poi, come gli aerei in atterraggio sulla pista, l'interesse fa una frenata semi-incontrollata sbandando violentemente al termine e lasciando sul campo una fine in bilico tra l'assurdità e la stupidità.In ogni modo, anche se non è il mio genere, è una lettura leggera che fa passare un'oretta senza tanti pensieri.[Però la prossima volta a metà abbandono!]
There are a number of differences between page and screen, and also, watching the movie doesn't allow you to really enter and experience Cain's dark and cynical worldview as much as reading the book does.
If nothing else, the ending of this book (as compared to the movie) is just phenomenal, creeps up on you slowly, and is nothing at all like the easy way out offered by the film.
It's just one big square of red silk that she wraps around her, but it's got no armholes, and her hands look like stumps underneath it when she moves them around.
Quella notte feci una cosa che non facevo da anni.
In questo breve folgorante romanzo, non quelli i sentimenti che muovono le persone.
O almeno in modo misurato.Billy Wilder [che ispirandosi ad esso trasse Il famoso film La fiamma del peccato], si dice, lesse il breve romanzo in 58 min.
Ma così assurdo che su me ha avuto l'effetto della rottura del patto narrativo.
Then he meets and falls in love with Phyllis, an unhappily married woman, enquiring about accident insurance for her husband.
They come up with a plan in which Phyllis's husband will die an unlikely death, by falling from a moving train.
The 'accidental' nature of his demise will trigger the 'double indemnity' clause of the policy, forcing the insurance company to pay the widow twice the normal amount.
The Insurance Investigator is suspicious, and so are Phyllis's daughter, and her mysterious boyfriend Nino.This Town Isn't Big Enough For The Both Of UsWalter Huff	Trevor WhitePhyllis Nirdlinger	Christy MeyerKeyes	Mitchell MullenLola	Ashleigh HaddadNino	Martin ShermanCR The Butterfly3* Double Indemnity3* The Postman Always Rings Twice
Double Indemnity is the second book I read of James M.
I was initially worried going into Double Indemnity as found a few scenarios sounded almost identical to what I read The Postman Always Rings Twice - where the wife of a rich business man teams up with her lover to plot her husbands murder.
But fortunately the likeness ended there.
Their affair and the characters were nothing like what was in Postman.
The murderous scheme they form seemed as though it was bullet proof.
Cain's version of events leaves this very much open to interpretation whilst bordering on Huff making all of the running for himself no matter how much of a sociopath Phyllis would later turn out to be.Cain's prose is spare and easy to read, he draws you in from the opening lines and keeps you ticking along at a breathless pace for the next 136 pages and in that time he does everything, gives you everything, so that when the final fatal entry arrives you finally catch your breath and know that however much these people know that they are wrong, they can never be sorry.However much I would like to think that I can distinguish a story in one medium from another and think of them as seperate entities the fact of the matter is that in this instance the movie came in to my life first, I love it and cherish it and I could not find a way not to think about Edward G.
Michele Mari ne dà, in un saggio ne I demoni e la pasta sfoglia, una definizione azzeccatissima: “La trama è un miracolo di ingegneria giuridico-medico-psicologico-cronologico.-topografica: complessissima ma all’apparenza semplice, secondo l’aurea regola della sprezzatura che contraddistingue i classici”.Ed è proprio così: ogni pezzo si incastra perfettamente col successivo, i colpi di scena sono mirabilmente calibrati, i personaggi emergono nella loro complessità gradualmente, con svolte sorprendenti ma di una logica disarmante, ogni particolare è curato dallo scrittore con precisione maniacale, la trama si svolge talmente bene che si è trascinati nel vortice senza quasi rendersene conto; il tutto accompagnato da una scrittura tesa, essenziale e vibrante, che tiene sempre accesa l’attenzione.
Secondo me un giallo perfetto, senza sbavature, coinvolgente, da cui molti scrittori di gialli dovrebbero imparare.
It also has a cooler ending, because it didn't have to follow the Hayes Code, and who wants to see evil punished every single time?
Sort of how those noir holodeck episodes of Star Trek: TNG were only amusing until the first commercial break, and then you'd despair at the fact that yes, they were going to be on the holodeck all episode, and yes, Data was going to keep talking like that.*I just read that this is because crippling chronic pain led her to abuse alcohol.
A thrilling noir novel where the protagonist is the villain ( with little conscience).
The story revolves around Walter Huff, an insurance agent who one day comes to visit his client, Mr. Nirdlinger in his house in order to renew his car insurance.
However, he's met by his beautiful wife, Phyllis Nirdlinger, and he falls under her spell.
However, the murder wasn't that perfect, and their plot starts to fall apart as the time progress.
It has a satisfactory ending and I recommend it to anyone who's a fan of the noir genre.
I reread it after eight years and Cain's prose still stings like a dreadful toothache.
She gave it a cold stare, and then she closed her eyes, pulled me to her, and kissed back."or"The firelight was reflected in her eyes like she was some kind of leopard."Cain avoids the flashy stuff and conveys the tormented inner dialog of the main character Huff through simple but hard hitting lines.
But like I said earlier, Cain does not distract us too much from the main plot.
This is as tight as a crime fiction novel gets with two of the coldest characters ever created in the genre.
