https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/413158.Put_Me_in_the_Zoo
A leopard with colorful spots on his body is requesting to put himself in the zoo!Why don't anybody listen to him? Do you get to see these kind of leopards daily who ask you to put them in zoo? Like a boss!
By far my favorite Dr. Seuss book.
A funny story that helps introduce your children to colors. Your child will laugh at all the things this silly animal can do with his spots. A definite hit with my little ones.When we got the book it came with a stuffed animal and my boys still fight over "Spot" the beloved main character of the story.This has a great rhythm to it as well which will have you acting it out with the kids which of course will give them even more giggles.I highly recommend this!
I fell in love with this book as a young girl, jealous that my friend owned it. It is a fun, whimsical, rhyming book that I never tire of reading. Last night I had my grand daughter read it to me, and she loved the swinging rhythm of the words. The story it tells is of finding one's place in life, and being confident in the talents that God has given us. Sometimes it just takes time to find the best match for our abilities.
The little boy and girl loved watching him change his spots and they kept asking him to do more.
The young boy told the animal that he did not belong in the zoo, but belonged in a circus.
The characters in the book are two young kids, a boy and a girl, and an animal.
The animal, which looks like a mixture between a bear and a dog, was yellow with red sports.The setting of this children’s book is at the zoo when the animal gets kicked out and the road to the circus when he is showing the children what he can do with his spots.
The board book concentrates on that, and it's much shorter and that much better.Having said that, this is a near-perfect look at what you need to do in a job interview.
A lot.What the cougar does next is what he should have done in the first place - he shows off all his skills, which involve the coloring and manipulation of his spots.
But he shows them to what looks like the wrong person - a boy and a girl who happen to be there.
That's the lesson of "Put Me In The Zoo," and that's a good lesson for job-seekers.
Nick liked that he could read it aloud. Matt liked the pictures and was interested when the kids wore the spots. Many of these beginner readers really have lasted the test of time (Suess, Are you my Mother?, Go Dog Go, etc), but this particular one mentions that the loveable spotty animal might be best suited for the circus. No animal is suited for the circus. And though I'm not fanatical about abolishing them (perhaps I should be), that little point certainly dampens the story for our household.
Text-to- World Connection The main character in this book initially wants to be a part of the zoo, but after being rejected by the zookeeper he questions their decision.
As a shared reading experience I would ask my students questions about the events in the book such as how do you think the main character felt when he was kicked out of the zoo?
As an extension of our shared reading I would have my students rewrite the ending of the book.
After rewriting the story ending we would share our stories.I really like this book because it addresses the ongoing issues with diversity that society is continuously battling.
I loved this book as a kid. It was one of my favorites and I just re read it since I’m giving it as a gift and I still liked it a lot compared to some of the others I re read. I liked all the color changes and movement of the spots as a kid and it made it a bit more interesting than some of the others to me now.
Cute book to use about colors.
i read this today because it was in my basement and I was bored. 10/10 still a good book. I'm sad that it isn't written by doctor Seuss though.
The drawings look enough like the work of a child with a crayon (in a very good way) that I figured my hand could only add to the book's beauty.
It's arguing children's book logic to even bring this stuff up though, and the book is delightful.The talented will find their way to where they're wanted and appreciated, and Spot does just that.
He IS a talented leopard.
Spots changing colors, growing, shrinking, and being juggled.
Maybe the fact that he could become a super-villain with his crazy spot abilities.
Maybe that happens in a sequel.Anyway, this is a very fun book.
This book is about finding your place in the world.
The lion in the book really wants to be in the zoo and shows the two children what he can do.
The lion loves this idea more and finds his place in the circus.Three ways to use this book:1.
This book can help teach the idea that you have a place in the world.
This book also teaches that your first choice might not be the best place for you.
The lion really want to be in the zoo but the circus is the perfect fit for him3.People around you can help you find your spot in life.
Put Me in the Zoo, was and still is, handsdown, my favorite picture book.
My mother read this book to me so many times, that I would know if she didn't finish the page, and I knew exactly what needed to be said, on each specific page.
My mother could read it with her eyes closed, and would know exactly when to turn the page, and I would "read" it upside down, and sideways.
I never realized when I was younger that this book would be considered poetry, but being older now, I do think that it is.
This afternoon I observed my daughter "reading" this book to her babies. When I asked her about why she chose this particular book, here was her answer. "My babies love to hear about how he can put his spots everywhere and how they change color. It also helps my babies learn their colors. It helped me. Remember, Mom? I used to mix up yellow and orange. It's also funny when the kids tell him he needs to be in the circus. That's funny." I couldn't have said it better myself. :)
This book reviews color names, includes rhyme, and has cute illlustrations. There is even a problem and solution here (main character wants to go to the zoo, but he gets kicked out. I won't spoil the ending for you, but there's an alternative solution).My daughter enjoys hearing this book before bed, and I'm sure it'll be one of the books she'll be reading to herself as she gets older.
This a fun book that is full of rhymes. It's a part of the "I Can Read" beginner books. This would be a great book to have in a preschool or early elementary classroom because its full of sight words and rhymes making it an easier read for beginner readers. This book can increase children's confidence in reading.
A Mommy Poem about "Put Me In the Zoo"This book has 65 pages. I feel like I've been reading it for ages.My 1 year old asks me to read it everyday. I have no choice but to say "Okay."Twice a day for 2 months long;I need wine to keep me strong. Adding it to my Reading Challenge now.To this, I DARE anyone to say "No way; no how." Signed, Mom of a Book Lover
I read this children's book while sitting in a waiting room. I enjoyed the illustrations as well as the message. It held my attention and helped me relax after a hectic day. I would enjoy reading this to a child.
A boy and girl help a talented, uh, bear-thing achieve his dreams of showmanship. An inspiring story of friendship and self-actualization. One of my favorite books as an early reader. Funny, though—I don't think I ever noticed the cameo appearance in the last page until just now.
This one is new to me, but I'm delighted to have stumbled across it. I always hear about three or four color illustration books but this is a really neat way to accomplish that. Fun as an early reader and fun for 'rhymes a little bit too. Definitely will read many times more.
This is a fun and colorful book! It has always been one of my favorites!
Re-read.
cute.
This book is a great tool to use to talk about colors, over, under, in, out, and on. You can also use it to build a young reader vocabulary.
Its cool how he changes colors and all, but are his only choices the zoo or the circus? That's just depressing.
With all the things that you can do, the circus is the place for you." I enjoyed this quote because the meaning of it to me is saying that you have to keep looking before you find a place that you belong.Character: The spotted dog thing...
Let being who you are change where you should go.
Let others bring you closer to the destination that you should be at.
You can find a lot of meaning from stories if you dig deep.
Being who you are is all that matters and if others don't appreciate that then don't let them stand in your way.
A fun rhyming book about a part dog/part bear animal that's yellow with red polka dots who wants to live at the zoo.
He then puts his spots on all sorts of things, like the children, the walls, and the trees.
After a fun rhyme, he takes his spots back for himself and makes them big and small.
The book continues with the animal putting his spots in many places, arranging them in order, and making the multiply.
He still wants to be in the zoo, but the children suggest he goes to the circus instead.
1. No awards2.
This book tells the story of an animal who visits the zoo and gets kicked out.
He dreams of being in the zoo and tells two children why he belongs there.
He has specials spots all over him that he can change colors, take off, make bigger or smaller, and so on.
You’ll have to read to find out if he gets put in the zoo!4.
I loved this book!
Children will learn to be confident in themselves.
The illustrations are unique and focus on the primary colors.
Rhyming, primary colors, being proud of yourself, concepts of bigger/smaller/biggest/smallest
I think that that book was brilliant!!
And, this book was a lot harder than all the others that I read.
I thought that this book had a lot of words that I did not know.
But I figured out that these books look okay but these books are kind of hard.
But you need to just figure out how to read and sound them out.
Reading is fun!!!And, these books kind of look easy to you and these books can be hard or easy.
And I bet that you have never seen a chapter that a kid can read but reading is very very very fun.
