https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76867.A_Darkness_More_Than_Night
In this book, published in 2001, Michael Connelly brings together three of the characters he had previously used as lead protagonists: former FBI agent, Terry McCaleb from Blood Work, journalist Jack McEvoy from The Poet, and L.A. Homicide Detective Harry Bosch, whom Connelly had featured in several novels up to that point.
But he hasn't lost the drive and the curiosity that once made him a leading FBI profiler.Winston's case involves a scumbag named Edward Gunn who was once arrested by Harry Bosch for the murder of a prostitute.
I started this knowing that it was Harry Bosch #7 but not knowing it was also Terry McCaleb #2.
So not having read Terry McCaleb #1 I may have missed some of the overall goodness of the book.
However I got enough to give it four easy stars.
I have to admit I did not like McCaleb at all and this may be because I did not already know him.
Harry on the other hand dealt with his issues head on and I loved the way he kept popping up mysteriously just when he was needed.
This was an easy book to read.
It really serves you well to have read Blood Work first to get a good sense of Terry McCaleb.
While this is the 7th book in the Harry Bosch series, it's the 8th in that universe and the second in the Terry McCaleb series.
For a large part of the story, McCaleb and Bosch are operating independently until their worlds connect.
Terry believes Harry is behind the murder of Edward Gunn because aspects of the crime scene seem to provide a connection.
This is another fascinating chapter of the Harry Bosch world with the added bonus of Terry McCaleb.
I'm close to giving this 5 stars.
It was a perfect storm in so many ways & it makes me very glad that I read the books in published order, not by series.
Not only does Connelly bring many of his characters together, but he does it in such a perfect, real way.
We start off following Terry McCaleb & see a lot of Harry Bosch.
Jack McEvoy has a small, but good part.
I like Bosch even better now.
He's a miserable SOB in a lot of ways, but he's a smart one.
Mr. Expert Profiler Man is led precisely by the nose to the conclusion that veteran detective Bosch is the killer, because the crime scene was staged with imagery and symbolism literally taken from Hieronymus Bosch's (the painter) artwork.
There's never a single doubt in my mind on this point, no matter how hard TERRENCE tried to force it all to fit.
WRITING a compelling story about profiling is probably just as hard, because not only do you have to get into the killer's head and understand motivations that may be incomprehensible (not that this was, at ALL.
There was a slim hope for me at the start though with a split narrative and one of the leads being from the only Connolly book I have disliked (“Blood Work”).
Then Connolly ramps things up to 11 and pushes what could have been a tedious read into the usual top notch affair.
Whenever Bosch or Haller are in the courtroom I could literally read from start to finish.
I’m glad I read the standalone “Blood Work” before reading this (even if I disliked it) as the main characters from that are in this one and there are some things that happen in that which influence this book.
Since the book is set up as Terry trying to tie Bosch into a murder of a man that was Bosch's suspect in a prior case, I just couldn't work up the energy to it.
One of my friend's told me that I should have read "Blood Work" first to get a better sense of Terry, but since I had a ton of books I went through like candy this weekend, I was not going to circle back to figure out a character who I found to be a big pain the butt through almost the entire book.Terry is called in to investigate a possible connection between Harry Bosch and the murder of Edward Gunn.
3  stars. I had a few complaints, but the series is so good that I’m glad I read it, and I’m on to the next.STORY BRIEF:Two stories are being told interspersed. Gunn was found murdered in his home in an elaborate method patterned after a scene from a painting. Detective Jaye Winston is in charge of the investigation which has stalled. She asks retired FBI profiler McCaleb to help her.The second story is a murder trial. A wealthy movie director Storey is charged with murdering an actress and maki
She asks retired FBI profiler McCaleb to help her.The second story is a murder trial.
It was good, but I prefer Bosch as the main investigator, not McCaleb.
This could be read as a stand-alone, but I recommend reading it after McCaleb’s first book “Blood Work.”Things I did not like:The murder trial story was mostly being done through trial testimony.
The reason I like this series is because McCaleb and Bosch are smarter than I am, but that wasn’t happening here.
In this book, Richard Davidson used a deep super-gravely bass voice for Bosch which didn’t feel right to me.
First off, it is narrated mostly from Terry McCaleb's perspective.
This change in perspective did a lot to shake the slightly monotonous feeling I was getting from binge reading Harry Bosch.Secondly, Harry Bosch comes across as the antagonist for the majority of the story.
In fact, I think this might be the first story where the book is actually way better than the prime video series.
The video series shows us what Bosch is up to right from the beginning while the book keeps this as a mystery right till the end.But, on the flip side, this is more of a Terry McCaleb novel than it is a Harry Bosch.
If you're into Noir than this TV series is a must see.Connelly has a knack for writing suspenseful tales that take quite a few twists and turns before being resolved with a stellar Who-Done-It that has most readers guessing till the very end (at least in his earlier books).Heironymous (Harry) Bosch, the hero in this series, is named after a Renaissance painter who specialized in earthly sins, debauchery, fanciful and gruesome visions of hell, violent consequences from high above if not detailed looks at the tortures reserved for earthly residents.
[...]Compare that to the later books in the series where we find a Harry Bosch notably mellower in his older age, where we find endings easily guessed at, where procedure begins to trump a superb plot.
In this 7th installment from 2001, former FBI profiler Terry McCaleb, recovering from a heart transplant covered in Connelly's excellent "Blood Work", is brought in on a brutal ritualistic murder case.
His work ends up making Bosch a suspect and threatens to undermine his ongoing efforts in a murder trial of a prominent Hollywood director in an apparent case of rough sex that got out of hand.
He's lost his way." A quote on the power of Hollywood to illustrate the dialog of darkness and light:  "The lights of Hollywood glimmered in the cut.
A city of lost light.
Former Criminal Profiler Terry McCaleb is asked by the Sheriff's Department to look into a case that has grown cold.
As the picture in his mind becomes clearer, his suspect is none other than Los Angeles Homicide Detective Harry Bosch.
Bosch knew the murder victim and had actually spoke to him the night of the murder.
Would a decorated policeman stoop to cold-blooded murder?
Or is Harry being set up?This is an interesting merger of two of Michael Connelly's heroes.
Terry McCaleb was introduced to us in "Blood Work".
Harry Bosch has had six previous books in his series.
Such a good story. Harry Bosch is the arresting officer in a high profile trial of a Hollywood producer accused of murder. Elsewhere Terry McCaleb is asked out of retirement to look over a murder stumping old colleagues. Nice complex twists follow, lots of favourite characters are involved and there are plenty of shocks. Wonderfully written and really clever. No faults here.
All of Michael Connelly's books are five stars for me. Terry McCaleb is the main character in this one. It's an older book. I don't know how I missed it. Terry is a former FBI agent who lives on Catalina Island. He's recovering from a heart transplant when a police officer from LA asks him to help solve a murder. All the clues point to someone he knows. Good story.
While he may not be front and centre, Bosch's person and history are certainly up for ananlysis and display.Connelly has an excellent way of glazing over something in a book, usually at the beginning, that has happened between the previous book and the current one; a partner leaving, an incident that led Bosch into a pot of hot water, or a death.
So much so, this book is actually considered the second in the McCaleb series, for good reason, as the former FBI agent takes centre stage.A great book with some courtroom drama, gumshoeing, and the blame game, as well as some very detailed analysis of Hieronymous Bosch, the artist.Well done, Mr. C.
Very clever plot. A lot slower than Blood Work but once it gets going this is a far better, more complicated story. Without giving away any spoilers, I have to say I loved the part about the missing book on the suspect's shelf. I wondered how this was relevant but loved the way the book is tied in later - genius. A good twist. Well worth a read.
I chose this book because it's billed as the next in the Harry Bosch series, and I was surprised to see a more complex structure than just "our hero has another adventure." This novel has two major stories, and Bosch isn't the protagonist until the secondary one, in which he's a key witness in a high-profile murder that seems about to go off the rails.
Connelly does a good job of fleshing out his main characters, so fans of McCaleb and Bosch from their earlier adventures will surely enjoy spending time with them again here.
Connelly brings together Harry Bosch and Terry McCaleb from previously (unrelated) stories and it works really well. Regarded as a 'Bosch'-series book it provides some needed variation to the theme. Suspenseful, hard to put down.
The book was a good idea but the story was confusing at times. Unfortunately I usually like. Michael Connelly's books but I felt like I was pushing myself to finish. A good book, but not one of the best. It almost seemed like a different author.
It's his most suspenseful, entertaining, and philosophical book yet that I have read, and it pits Connelly's beloved police detective, Harry Bosch, in a fascinating new predicament: murder suspect.Reprising his role from Connelly's previous novel "Blood Work" (one that I haven't read yet but saw the Clint Eastwood film adaptation), retired FBI profiler Terry McCaleb is asked to "consult" on the ghastly murder of an L.A. low-life, someone the world won't miss and that many people were glad to see dead.
This one concerns ex-FBI agent Terry McCaleb and Connelly's mainstay Harry Bosch, each working on a separate murder investigation that -- you just know this-- will each inexorably connect with the other.
The ending is suitably dramatic and upsetting, but does not strain the credibility as far as sometimes occurs in Harry's adventures.The one thing that made me scratch my head had to do with a major plot factor involving the work of painter Hieronymus Bosch-- Harry's namesake.
Makes me want to sing the song, "Mickey, Mickey, you're so fine, you blow my mind, hey Mickey, hey Mickey!" Wish I could sing it for you...nevermind, no, you don't.After falling for Mickey Haller so hard, it took me a few books to shift gears and 'get into' (figuratively speaking, of course) Harry Bosch.
Not quite so with Harry but after about the third book, well, he did grow on me and the more about him I read, the more MC unfolded Harry's personality and the better I understood him and why (sometimes) he did what he did.
A great series, Michael Connelly, with Harry Bosch still complicated, still dark and still with secrets.
Well, ladies and gentlemen, I'm sad to say I have now completed all of the Harry Bosch mystery/detective novels written by Mr. Connelly, as far as I know.
(I also re-read three of the books I had already read -- Concrete Blonde, Black Echo, and Echo Park.) There are still a couple of non-Bosch Connelly novels I haven't read, and I'll probably knock them down, too.
Obviously these two storylines intertwine quite completely by the end of the book.
And as his investigation continues to signs start to point to a certain LA detective.The second storyline is about a courtcase against a bigshot Hollywood producer who had the guts to admit to Bosch he had killed somebody but would get away with it.
My wife concluded that the book must be a good one as I would grab any break in my responsibilities as a moment to read, even if she does not share my taste in literature.Once again a well worth visit in the universe of Bosch and friends.
Former FBI agent Terry McCaleb is enjoying his new life on Catalina when he is asked to come back to the mainland and consult on a bizarre case.
Meanwhile, Harry Bosch is working closely with the prosecution on a case that he investigated.
Is their case strong enough to win?Fans of Michael Connelly will enjoy getting to see these two characters team up in one book.
We even get appearances by some characters from other Connelly books, which is a treat for fans, although not knowing the backstory doesn’t hamper anything if you start with this book.
The characters are sharp, both returning and new.
This is the first Michael Connelly book I have read.
There is a smoothness to the rhythm of the book.I love the characters as well.
Harry, to me, is the biggest enigma of all the characters I have just met.
I see this is the seventh Harry Bosch book and I already have the first in the series ordered from the library.The book is in the same genre as such authors as Jeffery Deaver and Harlan Coben, both of which I am also a fan of.
I had a great time reading this book.
A darkness more than night by Michael Connelly is the 7th book in the Harry Bosch series , but is also the second in the Terry McCaleb series.
Ex FBI profiler, Terry McCaleb is asked to give his opinion on a homicide and finds multiple clues that lead him to Harry Bosch as the main suspect.
Harry is assisting in the prosecution of a prominant film director who is accused of murder.
A few characters from previous Michael Connelly books come together here with McCaleb playing the main role.
Reporter Jack McEvoy plays a small part.
These books are always good.
Didn't enjoy this as much as other Bosch books as it felt a bit contrived with Bosch, McCaleb and Jack McEvoy all pulled into the story. While I enjoyed Terry McCaleb in "Blood Work" where he was central to the whole story, I came away wanting this one to be just a Bosch book as he is much the stronger character. On to the next one anyway...
The structure of this Harry Bosch Universe thriller teeters between the possibility of redemption (a second chance, a clean slate) and retribution (punishment, as depicted in the explicitly horrendous images of the artist Hieronymus Bosch who died in 1516).
Harry Bosch is in the Hollywood Homicide Division and the key witness in the murder trial of David Storey, a prominent film director.
McCaleb had worked with Bosch before — over ten years ago.
The hunches he follows up, the details he uncovers, and his research into Hieronymus Bosch's works make for fascinating reading.Connelly also immerses the reader in a less obvious part of Harry Bosch's world.
Terrific dual plot sustains suspense right till dramatic ending!Having discovered the fine mysteries by author Connelly about a year ago, we're catching up on his (lengthening) booklist.
While "Darkness" is another entry in the LAPD Homicide Detective Harry Bosch series, it really features as protagonist ex-FBI agent Terry MaCaleb, leading man from the earlier tale "Blood Work", later turned into the Clint Eastwood movie.
As McCaleb and Winston continue pursuing their case, suddenly events begin to converge, and in a climactic denouement, we finally discover the genius behind multiple crimes.
As usual, Connelly has plotted a fine tale.
