https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/116020.Walden_Civil_Disobedience
The tale of a man who dared to live in his parents backyard and eat dinner with them, and then lived to write about it. Compelling.
Man lives in constant stimulation to consume above his real needs according to a general interest that doesn’t necessarily correlate to his own.
Instead, it invites to reflect about the principles that rule our lives and question whether we are investing our limited time on what is really essential.Far from being a grumpy hermit, Thoreau sings the praises of a good conversation and basks in the company of those with inquisitive minds, dismissing the lulling tonality of generalized academic discourse.
on the same subject, again this insight torpedoes Thoreau as it does Adam Smith in my opinion in the disregard for an aspect of the daily realities of life that both experienced but turned a blind eye to in their pontifications (hide spoiler)]Another reading might be that even if wood dwelling was a reasonable possibility for all people, Thoreau's experiment demonstrates the need for centres of doughnut production within easy walking distance of even the most widely scattered hermits.
Walden: I take issue with a wealthy man living in a shack for a period and pretending that living one mile from town and having his mother do his laundry qualifies him to advise mankind to "sell your clothes and keep your thoughts."An experiment in simplicity, getting close to nature, I'm all for it. But when your experiment ends in a renewal of your previous lifestyle, how can you advise others to make changes that would leave them in the position permanently?
In a sense Thoreau is Adam after the Fall living East of Eden as a bachelor in a humble cabin built beside Walden Pond by his own hands with tools borrowed from Concord neighbors and sustained by the fruits of a bean field sown in his garden and with resources granted to him by the wilderness.
At Walden, Thoreau seeks a deep dive into the over-soul like a wood duck on a tranquil pond at dawn and he finds the engine of this crossing-over into a transcendent understanding of life by his immersive communion with nature in all of its pure manifestations.
Thoreau presents a criticism of modern life, technology, economy, and wasteful culture from the perspective of one who has simplified his life and experienced something much closer to real independence than any other modern man.
Thoreau came closer than any other writer or philosopher of his time.Read it for his pure and earnest love of nature, his witty and idiosyncratic style, his subtle humor, and his benediction to all of society that we always have an alternative to supporting an immoral status quo.
How many a man has dated a new era in his life from the reading of a book! This month, two hundred years ago, Henry David Thoreau made his way into the world. Thus it seemed like a good time to revisit his thorny classic, which filled me with such contradictory feelings the first time around.This time, I was struck first by how current Thoreau’s book reads. A vegetarian before it was fashionable, or even respectable; a pioneer of nature writing and conservationism; a godfather of activism and p
A vegetarian before it was fashionable, or even respectable; a pioneer of nature writing and conservationism; a godfather of activism and protest; an author of lines that, even now, wouldn’t be out of place in any self-help book; and the originator of the “stunt-book”—doing something unusual and then writing about it—anticipating both performance art and reality television in his classic account of his life “in the woods.”It is very easy to dislike Thoreau, or even to despise him.
It's introspective, thoughtful, and focused, which generally means it goes unread and derided by people who only have a cursory knowledge of the tale passed down generation by generation of mouth-breathing hill-people in a tragic game of literary telephone.But beyond the beautiful imagery and sophisticated metaphor and all those enchanted little things lies this notion of mindfulness; Thoreau succeeded in fulfilling this need to be surrounded by that which will keep one's mind alert.
Could it be liberated by finding the degree of stimulation Thoreau discovered in a nearly constant stream of unfiltered newness?Enough about that; Thoreau is a romantic, and I don't believe so much that Walden is meant to be taken as a how-to gospel or even a polemic.
So as part of my reading challenge for this year (mislabeled as being done in 2016, not 2017), I'm re-reading books 'everyone' loves (everyone being just a general consensus, not literally everyone) and which I hated / didn't like / was unmoved the first time I read it.
But it's also the sort of thing that a snarky professor I had in undergrad might have said, and I could see this book being used in the Philosophy of Utopias and Dystopias class he taught.
I used to hate when people said this kind of thing about books, so I feel like a dick for saying it, but it was too long.
I listened to the audiobook of this and unfortunately the narrator made it somewhat unbearable to listen to, but I did complete both Walden and the essay On the Duty of Civil Disobedience.
I found Walden to be a pleasant telling of Thoreau's departure from society and living freely in the woods of MA.
I enjoyed his philosophies with one in particular; where one can live easier, less stressed and freer when one has less to procure or work for.
Civil Disobedience was a bit more fascinating and quite relevant due to our current political climate.
I am happy to have completed this classic.
I first read Walden in perhaps the most ideal set of circumstances possible -- for an entire semester my first year of college, in a highly popular seminar made up of 20 first year students and a brilliant professor of intellectual history.
Each class, the professor would ask us to do a close reading of the next chapter, plus re-read all the preceding chapters, and then in class we would closely examine the text to try to uncover what Thoreau was up to in his often epigrammatic way.
Here's the thing: I like what Thoreau did here, and I agree with many of his philosophical points, and I hate giving up on books.
I've been trying to read this for about a month, but it has become that archetypal High School Summer Reading Book.
I stopped reading it because it felt like too much of a job.
I came to the decision to give up when he had been talking about how much he paid for the materials to make his shack and listing all of the items in it for what felt like roughly 700 pages (but was actually just a cruel 10 or so).
THIS BRO.
I had a crush on Hank (or his modern-day counterparts) several times over in college.
I am really glad I outgrew that phase.
His self-contradictory, misrepresentative memoir of living a mile out of town on Walden Pond is one of the most aggravating, arrogant things I've had to read in a while.
(For reference to just how REMOTE and NATURAL this setup truly was, remember that it's where Amy fell through the ice in Little Women, so the walk back to Concord wasn't too long or she would have frozen to death.) Anyway, NOT ALL MEN, but YES ALL WOMEN.
Especially the flying ones that like to bite) In denial of the adject horror I was experiencing due to these troublesome creatures I trudged onward; looking upon the house where one of my personal heroes had lived had always been a dream of mine.
As I peered into the Thoreau's brass face I began to remember why I love this guy."I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately, to front only the essential facts of life, and see if I could not learn what it had to teach, and not, when I came to die, discover that I had not lived.
Man this book was tedious as hell. There were a handful of cute thoughts and clever poeticals strewn throughout this sucker but mostly it's just some obnoxious dude going "Yo have you ever looked at a bird?" for a coupla hundred pages. It's like hanging out with someone who's on mushrooms when you're not."Snipes and wood-cocks may afford rare sport, but I suspect it may be nobler game to shoot oneself."Yeah okay, you first dude.
Escritos no século XIX, tanto Walden (Walden ou a Vida nos Bosques) como Civil Disobedience (A Desobediência Civil) continuam a fazer todo o sentido à luz dos conhecimentos e experiência que adquirimos ao longo de mais de século e meio de tempo decorrido.Ao partilhar connosco a sua experiência nos bosques de Walden, onde viveu dois anos isolado, Thoreau pretende mostrar-nos uma via alternativa; uma outra forma de viver, mais conscienciosa e em harmonia tanto connosco como com a Natureza. Quebra
Escritos no século XIX, tanto Walden (Walden ou a Vida nos Bosques) como Civil Disobedience (A Desobediência Civil) continuam a fazer todo o sentido à luz dos conhecimentos e experiência que adquirimos ao longo de mais de século e meio de tempo decorrido.Ao partilhar connosco a sua experiência nos bosques de Walden, onde viveu dois anos isolado, Thoreau pretende mostrar-nos uma via alternativa; uma outra forma de viver, mais conscienciosa e em harmonia tanto connosco como com a Natureza.
e em que eu, infelizmente, acabei por me distrair um bocadinho.Em Walden, Thoreau incita-nos a simplificar a vida e à auto-descoberta, enquanto que em Civil Disobedience assume um tom mais agressivo para partilhar as suas preocupações políticas, os seus argumentos contra o governo (e respectiva forma de actuar) e o seu pensamento anti-capitalista.
"I occasionally roasted a rat for dinner [NO KIDDING] and was glad to have something fill my stomach" or "I was wandering delusional and hungry in the winter woods but wow the majesty of trees yadda yadda" and just seems generally oblivious to the practical reasons most people don't just jump off the grid (like maybe they don't send their laundry home to be washed while living in the woods, as Thoreau did?
But as maybe I should've guessed from Walden, he's absurdly libertarian almost to the point of anarchy, and it's really frustrating.
I really had no clue what to expect when I picked this book up.
While many of his ideas are now cliche, to think that he was speaking them at a time when it was unheard of is incredible to me.
There were many "ah ha" moments, when I realized things about everyday life that had not been clear to me before.
At that stage in life I dont believe many are ready for all the ideas presented.
I read it at the perfect time in my life and can't wait to read more of his works.
Until now.It's easy to mock Thoreau--if you've never actually read the work.
Thoreau's Walden, like Melville's works, poorly comprehended during his life, is more of a shocking, crass challenge to our insipid age of speaking, mispelling thumbs and screens and twitter-twatter and make-believe brick-block arrangings (not to speak of abominations such as those that lurk amongst social media) than he ever was to mid-19th century American society.
The guy was a poet through and through and his rendering of his seasons and senses of the world, reborn outside of much of what "civilization" had on offer for him, are simply wonderful to read!
Yes, I am an English teacher who had never read WALDEN.
I did not have certification to teach American Lit, so I ignored all American lit until Twain.
So, sue me!
:)Reading Thoreau as an old woman gives me a distance to measure his enthusiasms against the realities of the world over time.
He's insufferably smug, for sure.
But he's observant, passionate, willing to study and learn.
But I doubt he'd ever change any of his youthful sure-ities for the uncomfortable uncertainty of a long life with experiences we cannot control.Glad I read it.
I like nature, like to read people's experience with it. Not so much about the details of building a $28 cabin to live in it. So for that, I give Walden 2 stars, but Civil Disobedience gets 4. This is a must read, and I feel still very relevant! I can't wait to share it with friends. So, splitting the difference and granting this read 3 stars.
Awful. Just genuinely unbelievably terrible. A waste of time. Do not read. Honestly just use spark notes.
The plot of the book (if you can even call it a plot) focuses on Thoreau's experience living on his own for two years, supporting himself solely and living off of the land near Walden Pond.
Thoreau doesn't even practice what he preaches.
All that aside, it's just thoroughly boring to read.
In all honesty, I'd say this is the most boring book I ever read.
Coming from a literary standpoint, I suppose I understand its significance in the world of literature, but if you're not into Transcendentalism and if you're not required to read this for a class, SKIP IT, I implore you.
"I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately, to front only the essential facts of life, and see if I could not learn what it had to teach, and not, when I came to die, to discover that I had not lived.
I did not wish to live what was not life, living is so dear; nor did I wish to practice resignation, unless it was quite necessary.
Walden was clearly written by a somewhat pretentious and privileged man who had a narrow understanding of the world and sought to romanticize or vilify any experience that deviated from his own.
When I first read Walden as a young teenager, I loved it and felt a strong connection.
However, age and greater knowledge of literature has taught me what good writing is and what it can be capable of - Walden is not it.
Walden and Thoreau are still worth reading in terms of environmentalism and the joys of solitude, but that is the extent of its value.
I really give this a low 3/5 because although I did like it during the first half, I read it for school and that can be very detrimental to your enjoyment.+ Philosophical Discussions+ Unbelievable air of beauty in certain chapters- LongBUY/BORROW/SKIP: BorrowFinal Rating: 5.8 / 10
It is never too late to give up our prejudices. No way of thinking or doing, however ancient, can be trusted without proof.                                                  *  *  * But how happens it that he who is said to enjoy these things is so commonly a poor civilized man, while the savage, which has them not, is rich as a savage? The cost of a thing is the amount of what I will call life which is required to be exchanged for it, immediately or in the long run.
If men would steadily observe realities only, and not allow themselves to be deluded, life, to compare it with such things as we know, would be like a fairy tale and the Arabian Nights' Entertainments.
Children, who play life, discern its true law and relations more clearly than men, who fail to live it worthily, but who think they are wiser by experience, that is, by failure.
*  *  * I learned this, at least, by my experiment: that if one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavors to live the life which he has imagined, he will meet with a success unexpected in common hours.
“But,” says one, “you do not mean that the students should go to work with their hands instead of their heads?” I do not mean that exactly, but I mean something which he might think a good deal like that; I mean that they should not play life, or study it merely, while the community supports them at this expensive game, but earnestly live it from beginning to end.
My video review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jYCSz...
‘Thaw with his gentle persuasion is more powerful than Thor with his hammer.’ This more or less sums up Walden. Thoreau only spends the last half of the book detailing this veritable utopia. But he spends the first half telling us why we should just go. Sometimes, I think that sounds pretty damn appealing.
