https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1293462.Etheric_Double
This is series of 5 books edited by Colonel Arthur E.
He very methodically combined information from a number of theosophical authors in the early part of the 20th century.
These books are a wealth of esoteric information.
However these books must be read in the following order: Etheric Double, Astral Body, Mental Body, Causal Body, and Solar System.
Although not all are mentioned in Goodreads, I recommend ordering the Quest book editions.
You can get them on Amazon or from Quest Books.First published in 1925 this book covers everything you ever wanted to know about the etheric double and its chakras.
This book is one of a series each unit of which deals specifically with one of the bodies of humans and other beings as seen from the common "esoteric" perspective; ie, the etheric body, astral body, mental body, and causal body/ego.
One useful understanding I gained was a reinforcement of the notion that one could approach consciousness from the form side, or the body.The book was published in 1925 and since then research in this field has progressed quite a bit; nonetheless, this book is a quick, interesting and useful read based on clairvoyant observations and the knowledge of the Theosophy school and so is not so subject to time as a ny times bestseller.
un testo sorprendente, bisogna leggerlo almeno 3-4 volte per coglierne tutta l'essenza.una spiegazione attenta del corpo eterico e di come l'energia si sviluppa e si muove.
This book is a compilation on the etheric body from the writings of three theosophists (namely, A. Besant, C.W. Leadbeater and H.P. Blavatsky).
I enjoyed reading every chapter. The insights were amazing. Impact on my healing approaches are yet to be explored. I definitely appreciate the teachings of my Guru with greater respect and gratitude.I liked the chapter on Death the most. The Inner reflection technique from Master Choa is such an impacting method to prepare for the best moment of life.
are being forgotten in our times, though they mark the founding elements for the study into the unseen elements and with the help of this book, I was able to read about them again and also read the studies that have been done from researchers of the time such as W.J. Crawford and Baron von Schrenck Notzing.
W. Leadbeater and Annie's Besant, and many others; making it as such a valuable resource for the seeker of the fine elements of our surrounding world.I will add below an eloquent quote from the ending of the book:"The real blossom of life grows above the stature of man, and its bulb drinks deep from the river of life.
Very interesting. Not what you would call a light read.
