https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46969.Maggie_Cassidy
او را دوست داشتم، زندگی را هم همینطور. باید آنجا میایستادم و فرض میکردم تمام خطاهای اندوهبار روحم، از انتهای دیگر خطی که زندگیام در آن جریان دارد خارج شده -برای سرنوشتی که از قبل نوشته شده، زاری میکردم- هیچ چیز در وجود من نبود که بتواند خطایم را درست جلوه دهد. دیگر هیچ امیدی به امید نداشتم. چشمانم خسته و قرمز، صداقت را آدمها، اتفاقها و ضعف ارادهی خودم پس رانده بود -پا در هوا-به جان رسیده- ناتوانام.از متن کتاب
او را دوست داشتم، زندگی را هم همینطور. باید آنجا می‌ایستادم و فرض می‌کردم تمام خطاهای اندوه‌بار روحم، از انتهای دیگر خطی که زندگی‌ام در آن جریان دارد خارج شده -برای سرنوشتی که از قبل نوشته شده، زاری می‌کردم- هیچ چیز در وجود من نبود که بتواند خطایم را درست جلوه دهد. دیگر هیچ امیدی به امید نداشتم. چشمانم خسته و قرمز، صداقت را آدم‌ها، اتفاق‌ها و ضعف اراده‌ی خودم پس رانده بود -پا در هوا-به جان رسیده- ناتوان‌ام.از متن کتاب
One of my favorite books.
Nothing like On the Road, its not about being a beatnik.
There are no drugs or road trips or crazy jazzmen...Its a sweet love story set in pure Americana in 20's Lowell.
I prefer the stories of his youth like Maggie Cassidy and Visions of Gerard (Dylan's favorite Kerouac book).
These books tend to have all the elements of the more beatnik books but without the trendiness of the beats.The kiss scene is one the bests.
I gave it to my wife.Most people don't realize it but while Ginsburg was having the Be-ins Kerouac was voting for Nixon...
Fucking hell, Kerouac.It may be that your semi-intellectual idea of 'spontaneous prose' is the source of some deeply poetic-sounding shit.
Oh, and choosing to express your love only by lavishing all of your Great Intellectual Vocab on her looks..?
I know one might choose to ignore their blatant sexism because of the times they lived in, but no.
I only finished it because when you slap enough beautiful words together on your little pretentious typewriter you are bound to end up with some gems.
On one hand, Kerouac requires patience, a bit of a run-up, time to settle in to his rhythms.
When I didn't I was disappointed.
Equally, it's a first novel and a little messy - in good ways and in bad - at turns not quite hitting the mark and resulting in delightfully madcap, onomatopoeic run-on sentences.
She's imperfect and temperamental and it's young love and jealousy and rage and disappointment — but it's the crazy and hotheaded but sweet and sexy girl we've see a million times, even for its time, and that's what really lets it down.
Still, though, Kerouac fans should give it a read.
Maybe one of the most approachable of Jack's. Heartbreaking and sincere. There's an upside down kiss in this book that is a thousand times sweeter and sexier than the one in Spider-Man
My first Kerouac. As a story, it's very typical; an adolescent love affair of an American high school athlete, set in 60s maybe, a small town story. However, the writing is sweet as honey. It is the poet in Kerouac that won it all over for me, despite the testosterone driven teenage boy talks. The writing was beautiful, very poetic. :)Recommended.
All things considered, Maggie Cassidy is a nice, simple story about a boy and girl who find a connection in the prime of their youths … it explores the beauty, the heartache, and the confusion of falling in love … and essentially, it encourages us to see that, at the end of our lives, such momentous encounters like this are really not as big and infinitely dominant as they might sometimes seem to be.
Kerouac, the grown writer, is recapturing something of the spirit of the first love of his youth.
Then, abruptly at the end the voice shifts to the third person signalling, I think, the change from the perspective of youth to that of adulthood.There is something poignant about the book in the description of a memory of pure love which doesn't fade, (think of the Buddy Holly song "Not fade away") and about the shift from innocence to overt sexuality.
In Kerouac's case, people frequently don't get past "On the Road".
"Maggie Cassidy" is a book on a smaller, more conventional scale.
Jack Kerouac embodies Americana. Plain and simple.Father-Son relationships. Blue Collar America. Wild, silly friendships. Small(ish) towns. All some of my favorite things.One of the greatest love stories I've ever read, "Maggie Cassidy" so accurately exemplifies friendship, young love, and adolescence. To fool friends and family for the heart of a woman, as flawed as she may be, while simulatenously battling the confusion of growing up, Kerouac illustrates that our decisions as youngsters really do shape our future as well as the relationships of those closest to us.
“The fog’ll fall all over you, Jacky, you’ll wait in fields—You’ll let me die—you wont come save me—I wont even know where your grave is—remember what you were like, where your house, what your life—you’ll die without knowing what happened to my face—my love—my youth—You’ll burn yourself out like a moth jumping in a locomotive boiler looking for light—Jacky—and you’ll be dead—and lose yourself from yourself—and forget—and sink—and me too—and what is all this then?”“I dont know—““Then come back to our porch of the river the night time the trees and you love stars—I hear the bus on the corner—where you’re getting off—no more, boy, no more—I saw, had visions and idees of you handsome my husband walking across the top of the America with your lantern..."Out of her eyes I saw smoldering I’d like to rip this damn dress off and never see it again!
Published in 1959, after 'On the Road', this novel covers Jack Duluoz (a thinly disguised young Kerouac) through his final year of High School and his first year of college in 1939-40m and his romance with Maggie.
Although the characters have different names, this is a prequel for the Sal Paradise character in 'On the Road" which I read 40 years ago.
Written in his 'spontaneous prose' style, some of the writing is quite lyrical and the early scenes of his schoolfriends larking about are great.
Overall, you have to concentrate hard to catch the best of the style so not the easiest book to read.
Good quotes: "The second-hand kisses the minute hand sixty times an hour 24 hours a day and still we swallow in hope of life.""I can't face my own conculsions."
Set in the close-knit working-class French-Canadian community of Lowell, Massachusetts, Maggie Cassidy is a semi-autobiographical account of Kerouac’s adolescence.
The story is recounted through the teenage mind of the author’s alter ego, Jack Duluoz, a high school athletics and American football star.
A memoir of the fantasy-filled memories of adolescent years spent male bonding with his ‘corner boys’, recollecting on his mother’s expectations and time spent with his father, it is above all an account of his first love, high-school sweetheart, Maggie Cassidy.
Towards the end of the book Jack moves to a school in New York on a sports scholarship, leaving Maggie behind in Lowell.
It's always interesting reading Kerouac because his style is so unusual, even in the this pre-On The Road book published after he became famous.
Since all of his books seem to be semi-autobiographical, it was fun to read a story about young Jack Kerouac, how he relates to his friends, what he thinks about his home town Lowell, MA, what he thinks of girls, his star athleticism, and a little about his family's dynamics.
Ultimately though, I'd give this book two and half stars because it's main story is not very captivating.
Jack's relationship with Maggie Cassidy is not well fleshed out.
My lovely husband read me this book over several nights before going to bed and I think that's the only way I can appreciate Jack Kerouac since I have a hard time understanding his prose when I am reading it on my own.
One of the things I love about this book is that it really shows how similar teenagers from the 1930s are to millennials.
This is similar to many things I've read decrying today's youth from not going to the door to pick up their dates.
I found this book in the library, and having heard of Kerouac, but never read him, I loaned it.
I admire the way Kerouac creates words, but what he writes about - an American teenage boy of a previous generation - is too far removed for me to find it in the full-on fussy sentences.
Perhaps, if the scenario was something I felt some empathy with, I would sink into the language - but as it is, I see the book as a little story padded and swathed with description until it can fit into a slender novel.
All I can say is that reading this book is good for the soul ( I'm not even kidding )the Kerouac style sends my heart affluter, in "Maggie Cassidy" he explores a sort of Elusive Flighty Poetry #Love #Freedom #Childhood
Maggie Cassidy is poetry in motion. Sad smells, candlelight sunsets, and cling-clanging trains rush you along with Jack and Maggie by his side past depots and jazz joints till the black of midnight strikes and you fall asleep clutching your pillow, prose rushing in to sweeten your dreams. When your’e a poet of Kerouac’s skill, every line has its rhythm and they fall together in place like the wonderful impromptu jazz magic that sweetens the darkened fog swept alleys of an inner city night.
This book tells the story of Kerouac's first serious relationship, which happened when he was in high school, and I remembered liking the first chapter when I picked it up several years ago and read through it in a bookstore.
Of course, it soon changed; once the scene described in the opening chapters of Duluoz/Kerouac stumbling and howling down the road to the dance with his friends had ended, the book switched to first person and became a heartfelt narrative about young love as told by a much older man looking back.
A quattro chilometri da casa cammino ancora nella mezzanotte di metà inverno, questa volta non a passo svelto, o gioioso, ma scoraggiato, nessun luogo dove andare e niente alle spalle - tutto quello che la notte fa alla fine di una strada è aumentare la distanza.- sono a letto nella notte nera emanando fumetti di dialogo bianchi per i miei sogni scolpiti d'oro - - Da bambino mi aveva già portato a New York a vedere la metropolitana, Coney Island, il Roxy - All'età di cinque anni avevo domito nella tragica metropolitana traballante di gente sepolta nell'aria nera della notte.
I enjoyed Kerouac’s messy prose still, and I think sometimes the misogyny is more a product of his time— but I do think Kerouac was at the same time aware of it, but would do nothing about it.
Maybe add it to his guilt list.
But the ending is so abrupt and honest, and doesn’t put him in a good light at all, and I feel like that is deliberate.
He couldn’t see her beyond more than a goal or object, and by that point there was no turning back.
An exhilarating, lively novel about the ambitious teenage Jack Duluoz and his love for Maggie Cassidy. Occasionally a victim of its time as far as attitudes are concerned this still ranks near to the top of Kerouac's novels for me, so far. Great poetic prose, a memorable group of characters getting to grips with what life has to offer them; all you could want from a writer doing what he does best.
It's ok to take something away from that book and not have to feel bad about an alcoholic, drug-induced hippie giving you the opportunity to see the world a little differently.
Kerouac gives us an outlet to get as close to it as possible; His novel has the uncanny ability to churn our internal waters and stir up memories of our own time growing up, when nothing was quite as important as which girl we had a crush on, what our friends were doing for summer vacation, or how good our own little league sports teams could be.
This is beat writing at its best, but there's no politics and spirituality; there's satisfaction in that mystifying poetry of love's unmeasurable angle.Maggie Cassidy draws you in with an enticing narrative frame that clicks the zoom lens down to Zagg's formative years in a lucid dream.
I've fallen for girls like Maggie (I suspect a lot of others have too) and throughout this tale there are many moments of recognition.
The boy grows up while the girl keeps her head in the clouds.
With elegance Kerouac has documented the flow of infatuation with a masterful hand.
He once again creates vast landscapes with words that are noisy, silent, colourful, bleak and visceral.A must read for any Kerouac fan.
I found Kerouac's style in this book to be truly phenomenal.
What made it an odd contrast was how it portrayed the life of a high school jock, a little shy and inexperienced, compared to the poor alcoholic of later books.
The subject matter was an honest look at the frustration of high school relationships.
The book was an odd contrast between idolisation and disappointment.
While I prefer Kerouac going on a bender with because his cat died, or failing at relationships because of his alcoholism, it was a sweet touching story and really really well written.
It was good.
About half-way through, I consciously realized how two-dimensional the characters were.
(And that's not exactly a GOOD thing.) But the writing is beautiful, lyrical.
The plot is strong, and it kept me turning pages.
"Maggie Cassidy" probably doesn't get the attention it deserves in the Kerouac lexicon, to be honest.
*SPOILER:*This novel's ending is nothing short of brilliant.
If the first 180 pages breathe air into the balloon, the novel's last 9 pages see it fly maniacally around the room as that air escapes.
I'm not much of a romantic--though I was rooting for Jack & Maggie--but the ending seemed absolutely perfect.
Since this was one of his early books, I believe he hadn't developed the stream-of-consciousness style he'd later become famous for.
In the beginning, Maggie Cassidy told the story of the golden age of the main character's youth and love in Francophone New England.
However as the story developed and the main character grew older, the charm was lost and the story floundered.
Although interesting because of the description of a small Francophone community in America, and for Kerouac fans, interesting to imagine Kerouac's childhood, ultimately the plot and characters are too underdeveloped to stand with his later books.
The fact that the main character in this novel is actually Sal Paradise - Kerouac wanted them to share the same name but publisher stopped that - made me like the book a lot more.
And the fact that that made me like it a lot more isn't very good 'publicity' for this book.
I've read two other Kerouacs, On the Road and Lonesome Traveler, that I both enjoyed very much.
I love reading about travelling and all the adventures on the road, and I think Kerouacs spontaneous prose fits those stories very well.
I didn't think it fit this story very well.
Less profound than Kerouac's seminal work On the Road, Maggie Cassidy is nevertheless a thoughtful read that reflects on the innocence and nihilism inherent in teenage romance. Written in a sometimes-narrative, sometimes-stream of consciousness format, Kerouac recounts the tale of his formative years as a high-school athlete in 1930s New England as well as his frustrations with his first love, Maggie Cassidy. Perfect for a quiet winter night, Maggie Cassidy is a must-read in the Kerouac canon.
While the book takes place in Lowell, Massachusetts in a small yet urban neighborhood pre-World War II, the defining generation of a melting-pot society, it's easy to inhibit the main character, Jack Duluoz, as you ride along his experience as an adolescent clutching for the answers of friendship and true love. Although my first Jack Kerouac read, the writing style delivers a very realistic approach to how a young adult may interpret love while also dealing with family, school, and future expectations.
