https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/647351.The_Image_of_the_City
They can have little sense of what a setting can mean in terms of daily delight, or as a continuous anchor for their lives, or as an extension of the meaningfulness and richness of the world." Unfortunately, Lynch's call for reforming the visual quality of the American urban environment -- the book was published in 1960 -- has fallen on deaf ears.
This should probably come as no surprise in a society that values expediency over thoughtful design, cheap tat over quality (one reason all of our garments are now made in China!), and 'business administration' over the Humanities.My personal rant aside, Lynch analyzes the urban landscape according to identity, structure, and meaning and argues for a reshaping of our cities.
Not being familiar with the cities, I found myself skimming some of the results pages as he lists the names of many individual roads, bridges, suburbs etc it was all a bit abstract without a big map of the city to hand but the overriding points being made were of interest.This book is peppered with thoughtful insights into the different ways one can view the city, for example “The function of a good visual environment may not be simply to facilitate routine trips, nor to support meanings and feelings already possessed.
It looks like a suburb in 1960.Generally this book just presents a really cool way of thinking about the urban environment.
that were distinctive in their city, then analyzed the results to find some cool results- which areas were fuzzy and what features about them made them vanish in the hive mind's urban self-concept.Like the fact that, to Bostonians, many of the landmarks are bottomless.
They are our castles in the sky.Highly recommend for anyone who has lived in Boston, Jersey City, or LA, or for people curious about urban planning ideas, or anyone who enjoys thinking about the way we affect our environment and it affects us right back.
Image of the City is a seminal book to the field of urban design.
Gygory Kepes was involved in this book as well.It includes a number of very simple and effective small diagrams which perfectly demonstrate the concept discussed.
It also includes the maps of Boston, Jersey City, and Los Angeles derived from research and developed thought the framework.The book does suffer from a cloak of tediousness, which at times makes it a monotonous read, but the several pages which discuss these key concepts are very much worth the trouble.
Even though it is an old text (1960), and the most 'academic' in its scope, I found this book to be the more interesting of the set. Maybe because it answered some of the issues I have been preoccupied with, regarding the urban reality of Athens. The concepts of legibility and the value of empiricism over theory, in talking about a city & its architecture helps explain why, for example, Omonia square will always be a site of 'chaos', despite efforts to 'humanize' the location.
Helpful for building one's own theories based on city imageability !*Precious*
(1)I love this nod to the overwhelming -- and mostly pleasurable -- nature of the city, the ways it works in both space and time, and like Lofland, Whyte, Cullen, Gehl and others, he is clearly writing as someone with an appreciation for city life.
(6)Another important qualification, the power of human beings to shape the urban environment:The observer himself should play an active role in perceiving the world and have a creative part in developing his image.
(9)A highly imageable (apparent, legible, or visible) city in this peculiar sense would seem well formed, distinct, remarkable; it would invite the eye and the ear to greater attention and participation.
Lynch provides clear analysis of the cognitive maps formed by inhabitants of his selected US cities. This seminal book has influenced so much of what I'm reading so it's useful to return to the source material.
Interesting research study and methodology concludes that strong visual form not only makes a city more livable but also improves quality of life. Suck it, Jersey City.
And although it's regarded as a fundamental and influential text in urban planning, this was not a worthwhile read for me.The type and the style, although fine for the time, didn't work for me.
This is written in an overly-formal, 1950s academic style which is downright painful to translate most of the time, and it's set in a type is so unusually small that it looks like a mass market paperback was printed in the middle of a full sized page.
These were probably amazing ideas in their time, but you're better off reading something else.
These ideas will show up in other urban planning books, and they'll be more easily digestible.
The author makes a case for the image of the city (how it looks), is it relevant, and does it play a part in one's perception and way-finding abilities. Yes it does matter so that parts of a city can be related to the whole of the city, so that users can easily and happily find their way, and so that the quality of life in cities can be improved. I really like the author's approach to diagramming each city. I only wish I would have read this as a first year architecture student instead of a recent graduate.
This is considered the bible of urban design texts, but frankly I think it is lacking. Lynch examines various aspects of cities - nodes, paths, edges, etc - drawing upon extensive research he performed in the 1950s. If you haven't been to the places he writes about, Boston, Jersey City, San Fran, it can be difficult to fully understand what he is referring to. Surely someone could produce an updated version of this to reflect the design challenges of today's cities.
Good book, a classic, it has some useful information, especially if you're interested in town planning but I found it really tiring to read, i could hardly stay focused in about half the book, my eyes grew tired because the letters are tiny and I was counting the pages left until the end of the book all the time! I didn't enjoy reading this at all, I just hope someone had told me what the important bits are so I could skip all the rest!!
The problems of planning have rarely been put together so succinctly. Rather than promoting grand "modernist" plans for revamping cityspace, Lynch promotes a far more modest approach, favoring legibility, utility, and humanity. Calling up the examples of Boston, Jersey City, and LA (all circa 1960), Lynch provides us with a tactical approach to both the psychogeography of our cities and the ways to reclaim space.
As the density of the image builds up, it begins to take on the characteristics of a total field, in which interaction is possible in any direction and at any distance."4) "We have the opportunity of forming our new city world into an imageable landscape: visible, coherent, and clear.
It will require a new attitude on the part of the city dweller, and a physical reshaping of his domain into forms which entrance the eye, which organize themselves from level to level in time and space, which can stand as symbols for urban life.
The relative irregularity of the streets, however, also means that people have difficulty "shaping" areas like the Boston Commons.Jersey city is chosen because of its seeming disrepair.
People organize their city by street names and shopping districts that they visit regularly.Los Angeles is something of a go-between.
The latter are interesting to compare with the professionally rendered insofar as certain areas disappear.The next chapter focuses on five elements that go in to people's created images, or maps, of a city: paths, edges, districts, nodes, and landmarks.
The elements isolated above -- the paths, edges, landmarks, nodes, and regions -- are the building blocks in the process of making firm, differentiated structures at the urban scale." (95)"The citizen shifts his place of residence more frequently today than ever before, from area to area, from city to city.
Good imageability in his environment would allow him to feel quickly at home in new surroundings.
The city environment is itself changing rapidly, as techniques and functions shift.
These changes are often disturbing to the citizen emotionally, and tend to disorganize his perceptual image." (111-2)
Kevin Lynch's thesis is a spectacular piece of research that attempted to theorise the idea of city forms.
It is no wonder that this book is helping city planners develop a better layout for the new city sectors.
This lead me to read the entire book.The book takes Boston, New Jersey and Los Angeles as its case studies but the concepts developed in the book are applicable to any city, eg.
It also describes the research methodology used in detail.All in all, a good read for people interested in city planning, navigation, city forms, cartography and civic policies.
This is the kind of book I particularly love stumbling upon, simply because it expands my mind with ideas I hadn't given much thought to before.It is densely packed with references to anthropological studies, literary quotes, and abstractions explained succinctly — a scholarly work that's beautifully written so it becomes accessible.It quickly engaged my inner geek in such a way that, after reading about the topic of Appendix A on page six, I immediately proceeded to read that entire appendix before returning to the text proper!
This is an important book that I had only read part of until I finally got it done. I didn't love it. I think a lot of the ideas are important but the style is elliptical and doesn't bother to define most of the key terms. It's clear what they mean but the relative importance or use of "path" or "node" is rather subjective and difficult to contextualize.
I'm really glad I read this...it's a wonderful study of how people form mental maps and images of cities, and so useful for thinking about urban design, but also thinking about my own experiences navigating cities and places.
Fascinating in synopsis, not so much as you’re reading it. It’s something I’m glad to have read, gained a lot of insight from and did enjoy reading at all.
Still have a copy.
"The map, whether exact or not, must be good enough to get one home." [page 9]Close to the end Kevin Lynch reminds us of Susanne Langer and gives us her definition of architecture: "the total environment made visible." Remember Langer's Philosophy in a New Key where she writes about our human need for symbols and our need to symbolize, to invent and invest meanings in objects, our environments, our activities and our world?These are shapes, spaces, and vistas that will - or won't - attract new artistic, educational, and commercial enterprises; no wonder this book is a classic!
Pretty good for a basic reading about city planning, but how old this book since it had been written gives a slight absence.
It can be more fun if he take attention into how French adapt to spiderweb-like path pattern , or how people in Indonesia adjust their ability to move around in Jakarta city whose pattern can be imagined as 'throwing snakes in a bucket'.Other thing, he's not yet consider the penetration of complex multi-use building, or planning on clustered rather than one as a whole, in his theory 'placing the same use together in a region in order making it distinctive'.
Based on extensive interviews and guided tours with a convenience sample of residents, some important conceptual abstractions were derived from this empirical information to help organize the subjective image that constitutes the subjective experience of large urban centers.
These abstractions include nodes, landmarks, paths, edges, and districts or regions.However, it was difficult to determine where direct implications from the empirical analysis left off and the sophisticated commentary of the highly educated author began.
Lynch's five basic elements: paths, edges, nodes, landmarks, and districts, are referred to time and time again in a wide variety of subsequent literature.
The chapter containing the case studies of the three cities, Boston, Jersey City, and Los Angeles, was the high point of the book in my opinion.
It did not matter that I had little specific knowledge of Jersey City or LA, as I understood the form of these places through prior study.
Perhaps the best recommendation is the fact that this book is still relevant today, as evinced by countless citations in a wide range of publications from academic journal articles to urban revitalization reports.
The introduction of this book is so inspiring.
It talks about how cities are made up of people, architecture and time and how they're so intricately interconnected.
Despite being written early on in the era of modern urban planning, the book realizes the value of trying to bring order to a city but also the necessity to allow cities to grow naturally and define themselves.
There were plenty of very interesting tidbits particularly testing how well you really do know your own city (most likely not nearly as well as you think).
The concept of orientation in a city is really well explored.It also show us the example of 3 cities which is good in order to relate with your case of study.[PT]Eu acho que este é um dos livros mais importantes para ler quando se pretende fazer um projecto urbano ou o estudo de uma cidade.
Ele mostra-nos diferentes aspectos da cidade e a sua importância para a identidade do espaço.
O conceito de orientação está muito bem explorado.Também nos mostra 3 exemplos de cidades o que é bom para estabelecer relações com o caso de estudo.
Perhaps the most readable book about city planning I have ever encountered.
Both the style and the ideas are agreeably digestible; who doesn't like the idea that a differentiated, striking city makes it easier to get around?
It must be said that for persons who have a painful longing for Boston in their gut, some of the very interesting conceptual framework will get swallowed in the enjoyment of reading detailed descriptions of the streets you also love.
There's also something to be said for the interest of a critique written pre-Government Center and pre-Big Dig -- for all the latter's problems, the situation prior to its construction rendered the North End totally null in a unified urban analysis like this one.
