https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2915.The_River
i have to call "bullshit." Hatchet i can understand: small plane - pilot has heart attack - brian is stranded in the wilderness with nothing and must learn to live in the wild.
this one: brian is in a different wilderness with a man who works for the government to re-enact the experiment for the benefit of psychology and its applications etc.
brian, there's a point where you have to stop and think that maybe you're the bad seed in these scenarios.
You watch other animals, birds, fish, even down to ants - they spend all their time working at food.
So what gets Brian back out in the woods is somewhat silly, yet once he's there it gets pretty good and you feel much the same way as the first. Then all the sudden toward the end, it feels like he rushes all the way to the end and it's over. The book is not perfect and it's still worthy to be in this series. I think it's funny that a psychologist goes with him. He's trying to write down everything he says. So funny, I can totally see that happening. It's too bad he didn't get a better experience.
Since this is a kids book, I think you need to hear a review from a 13 year old like me.
First of all I think you need to know I never liked reading books until I read the first book of the series, "Hatchet".
What I liked about this series is that the main character is my age and he develops survival skills over time.
If you're searching for an action packed book with strong character qualities, for your child like my mom was, this would be an awesome pick.
A sequel so disappointing it actually takes away from my enjoyment of the original.
And, of course, the plot is moved along by...
And, of course, survivalist boy has to save the day!
Of course he would never think to toss old coma-pants to the raging surf below!
He can construct a raft in a single day!
And, of course, no harm done in the end.The writing style, which is repetitious and a little silly even in Hatchet, now makes exactly NO SENSE since hero-boy HAS SOMEONE TO TALK TO.
It was forgivable in Hatchet, since it gave a sort of stream-of-consciousness effect that worked for me.
His conception of food, of time, of nature, the way he approaches the luxuries of modern life—all had taken on a different tint from before.Brian, now fifteen, is just beginning to adjust to his previous life when a government research group solicits him to replicate his experience for scientific study, in particular to help illuminate the psychological component behind the human will to survive that was surely in play during Brian's extemporized escapade.
Sure, there's Derek, Brian's companion this time around, but for reasons that present themselves almost upon arrival, he brings little to the companionship side of the equation.
I teach Hatchet now to my 7th graders and they enjoy it (especially the boys) for the same reasons I did.I only recently discovered that Gary Paulsen wrote several sequels to Hatchet, three now to be exact.
So I re-read Hatchet and then prepared to continue on new adventures into the wild with Brian Robeson; except that, from the first page, something about this story is not quite right.It starts with a ridiculous premise: A team of adults comes to Brian to admit that "we (being THE Army, THE astronauts, very vague here) pretend to survive.
In Hatchet, 13-year-old Brian Robeson was forced to spend 54 days alone in the Canadian wilderness when the bush-plane pilot had a fatal heart attack and crash-landed in a lake, leaving Brian with nothing but his hatchet.Now a government survivalist organization wants him to do it again, so they can improve the way they teach survival techniques.
Things are going fairly smoothly - well, Brian learned a lot in his ordeal - but lightning strikes the government man through their 2-way radio, sending him into a coma and frying the radio.
But somehow Brian must get an unconscious, injured man 100 miles downriver to a trading post before Derek dies of dehydration.Too often, a sequel doesn't live up to the original story, but this one definitely does.
People compare this book to Hatchet I personally think Hatchet worse than this book.
For people who think it is just one "misadventure" after another must not have great taste in books.
This book consists of all the fundamentals of a great book; action, adventure, love, humor.
It isn't as much as getting into the "mishaps" but how he gets out of them.
Brian having save someone while also having to survive the harsh conditions of the Candadian wilderness was intriging.
Paddling down the river was awfully slow.
various other things were slow, too.
Altogether this book was desent but deffinently not the best.
Mixed feelings on this one. The plot was somewhat repetitive from the first book of the series(Hatchet) and the primary plot mover was implausible. However, for the primary audience of this book, boys who are about 10 - 12 years old who like adventure/survival books, it again featured the value of self-reliance and ingenuity. As an aside - I do not ever plan to go into the Canadian Northwoods with Brian. Seems to be hazardous to one's health.
They all work in a military survival school and one of them wants to go with Brian to figure out his thoughts and how he did it, the man, Derek, is a psychologist.
When they are packing the plane to leave, Brian decides it would be a good idea to leave all the emergency gear behind, which his mom requested be brought, but a radio because Brian didn't have all this fancy gear, only a hatchet and a pocket knife, to survive so it would be more accurate.
There is lots of lightning and Brian tells Derek to phone in for an emergency for a plane or helicopter and at that moment.......
This sequel to the classic book "Hatchet" has an interesting story.
I chose to read his book because I absolutely loved the book "Hatchet", although I didn't think the sequel wasn't all that great, it was pretty good though.
I thought that Gary Paulsen made a good storyline for this second book though, I mean for a sequel book, it wasn't that bad, I am really excited to read the third and fourth book in this series.
There is no swearing, or anything bad, it really is a book that a school teacher could read to her elementary students, if she wanted too.
I really liked all the emotions that the author showed Brian having in the book.
I thought it was clever and stupid at the same time that Brian left almost all the supplies on the plane to make him and Derek truly feel the emotions of being stranded.
At first I thought it was stupid for Brian to even go be stranded in a remote forest again just for learning purposes.
After reading this book I really reflected on how difficult it must've have been for Brian and how I bet nobody of his age in the real life could overcome the obstacles he did.
Easy to read.
Not too many characters.
A simple adventure that the reader can easily enjoy and place themselves in the action.
I like how Brian makes the point that he has changed after his initial adventure.
He kind of exhibits slight symptoms of PTSD, which is understandable from the viewpoint of an adult reader, but perhaps not something that a child reader would have expected.Perhaps I'm being unfair in starting this review with "meh," but I guess I was hoping for more.
More character development.
More like an adult book.
So I guess I should have picked up an adult book, huh?
The River is insane.
Like if you ever got thrown in the situation Brian went through in this book you would go insane.
He was sent by the government to again go get lost in the woods and survive, but this Brian would have a buddy with him named Derek.
So that sets up the insane adventure.
All the river scenes (hints the name) get more miserable and intense everyday he is on the boat.
The River will make you never want to get lost in the woods.
Brian just accomplished a huge human feat and that's just cool on its own right.
2.5 stars
i hated this book. it felt like trudging through water in heavy shoes. it can be done, but it’s not fun at all. the whole thing was short and easy to read, but SO. BORING. i’ve read stories from my english textbook that are more interesting than this. it’s just cheesy and the way they try to mimic teenage thought is hilarious. the only reason why it was so easy to get through was because skipping whole pages didn’t change anything. i could probably skip chapters at a time and still know what was going on.
The book I read was The River by Gary Paulsen.
It was about how Brian went back into the wilderness but not the same island as in The Hatchet.
I also liked how Brian had left his Hatchet at home because it made the senario more realistic.
I didn’t like how only Brian and Derek went to the island to survive alone.
I think the book would have been more interesting if all three of the guys and Brian would have went.
I think that I will keep reading Gary Paulsen books and finish the rest of the series.
Gary Paulsen’s The River is about a boy who was stranded in the Canadian wilderness many years before. Brian is asked to go back and relive his survival experience in order to be examined. The River is the third book in the Hatchet series, which is about Brian’s survival after his bush plane crashed. The genre of this book is adventure fiction.  Brian Robeson, a boy who survived in the Canadian wilderness for fifty-four days, never wanted to relive his experience again. Unfortunately, two men w
Gary Paulsen’s The River is about a boy who was stranded in the Canadian wilderness many years before.
The River is the third book in the Hatchet series, which is about Brian’s survival after his bush plane crashed.
Brian Robeson, a boy who survived in the Canadian wilderness for fifty-four days, never wanted to relive his experience again.
Unfortunately, two men wanted Brian to go back and survive again.
The men were from a military survival school and wanted to learn from Brian in the woods.
Will Brian get Derek to safety or will they both perish in the harsh conditions of the river?
I think you will enjoy Paulsen’s book about bravery, determination, and the strong will to survive.
The book begins with Brian at his home where he is approached by two government agents and a psychologist that want him to go back out into the wild.
The agents would like him to return to where he was stranded, along with Derek, the psychologist, so he take notes on all the things Brian uses in order to survive.
I enjoyed the book because it kept you thinking about what may happen next.
CHARACTERIZATION:The main protagonist of the story is Brian, who bravely takes a perilous journey down a river in order to save his friend Derek's life.
Derek is the second main character in the story that has been struck by lightning, and now has to be taken to the nearest outpost by Brian if he ever has a chance to stay alive much longer.
When Derek was struck by lightning, Brian took it upon himself to take Derek downstream, in order to get him to the nearest camp.
Brian had shown bravery throughout the book by taking the dangerous journey down the river in order to save his friend's life.
The River is a book that takes place after Brian gets rescued from the wilderness after forty four days.
When Brian got rescued, the government thought that he was really good at survival technique for surviving, so they asked him to teach the government official how to survive with nothing.
The Indians started a huge fire to attract attention to airplanes because they were looking for Brian and Derek since they weren't answering their radio call.
I will now try to read more books by Gary Paulsen to see what Brian will do next.
This story is about a guy called Brian ones few years ago he had crash and pass more than 1 month in an island with nobody else, until finally he found a packet with a radio and called another airplane to rescue him, some years pass and the government want Brian to teach them how to survive in the forest with no technological help so they could teach to others and when emergencies happen more people could survive, so he accepted and travel again to a forest but now with a guy the is a psychologist and will learn lots of things in this travel; now inside the forest Brian and the psychologist pass threw lots of dangerous events but they survive easily, Brian didn’t want to take any supply and the only help he got was a knife and a radio in case of a emergency.
This book is similar because at the beginning there is a person named Derick to see how he did it so he wanted brain to go out and do it again, but this time Derick would be at his side the whole time to take notes and if anything happened all he had to do was radio in.
Finally I overall like the creativity of Gary Paulson for think everything up and actually adding an epilogue unlike other book that give you a good ending it just that the reader just wants to know/learn more about the story.Would I recommend this to others?:Heck No, this book was beyond boring.
In this epic thrilling book Brian, the main character, is headed back to the wilderness to do it all over again.
But Brian refuses to use any of these items, becuase he knows that in a real life stuation, they wouldn't be there.
Brian needs to transport Derek to a hospital because he's in a coma.
In an incredible effort to save Derek Brian travels for days finding the trading post.
I thought this was a great book because now Brian not only had to care for himself, but he had to care for Derek who was in a coma.
I think that this book was alright.
I feel like Gary Paulsen has made better books.
I still think that he is a good author but this book made me less impressed.
I get that and agree but I don't think I'd ever leave my stuff.
It just seems to me that everything that happened was so predictable.
I could guess lots of what would happen.
If you want to know this book, I'd tell you it to spare the time.
Still, Gary Paulsen is an incredible author but this book did not trip my trigger.
Brian thought that it all came to easy, but that changed very quickly.One night during the trip there was a huge storm and the two people and the radio were shocked by lightning.
Brian was fine, but Derek was in a coma and the radio was broken.
So Brian decided to build a raft and sail down a river that ran out of the lake where he was at.
On the map that they had it showed a building down the river where Brian thought they could get help.
When Brian got to the building it was a cabin and they were able to get help.
The River is about Brian Robeson, who is now fifteen years old.
Two years ago, Brian was stranded out in the Canadian wilderness for fifty-four days after crashing in a plane.
He asked them about Brian going back into the woods to redo what he did two years ago, so that the military could use some survival techniques that Brian used.
So Brian went back into the woods with Derek, so that his survival techniques could be observed.
Brian found a map in Derek's briefcase, and decided to take him to a nearby trading post.
Gary Paulsen does a good job of describing the settings and what takes place in the book.
Another character named Derek who is a scientist asks Brian if he wants to relive his experience in the wild.
Derek is a very strong willed guy that will not give up when it comes to something big like he is forced to do now.During the book Brian has to decide if he wants to go back into the wild and relive his experience.
This book has a rating of about 4 because there is a lot of good describing details and great characters to fit the roles.
I picked this book up because I really loved Gary Paulsen books, especially Hatchet.
Gary Paulsen made it seem as if Brian could suddenly do everything after his experience, such as build a raft in a day, let alone a working one.
He had to work day and night to get what he needed.
This time, he was handed everything he needed in the first two days.
I need conflict!" and stuck something into the book.
I feel like Gary wrote a masterpiece, but flopped on the sequel, because he had already written the good book, somewhat like how Harper Lee flopped on Go Set a Watchman after her incredible story, To Kill a Mockingbird.
This book is about a man named Brian Robeson and he was once stranded in a forests because the plane that he was riding in had crashed...
They worked with the government and they wanted to watch/learn about Brian's survival and the techniques he used to survive by himself in the deep woods...
He was going to go back out into the woods and teach them how he survived.
These situations made me want to keep reading.
I really enjoyed this book and I would recommend it to anyone who enjoys action and suspense.
