https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/425173.Promised_Land
When Spenser finds her she is living with a pair of revolutionary feminists, and does not wish to return, so he promises not to tell Harvey where she is staying.
Soon, though, both the Shepherds want his help: Pam is in trouble, for the revolutionary feminists have proved to be militant and dangerous, and Harvey, who owes a loan shark big money for a belly-up real estate venture, is being threatened by a well-dressed, intimidating black man named “Hawk.”“The Promised Land,” name of the bankrupt real estate scheme, is also The Plimoth Plantation itself, the original Pilgrim settlement in America (now "living history" museum) where a few of scenes of the novel take place.
He was always a comer.’‘He said he just does the killing now, the sweaty work, he delegates.’”Spenser has been hired by a real estate developer named Harvey Shepherd whose wife Pam has run off.
Like most of Spenser's clients, Harvey is kind of a self-absorbed dumbass, but he does genuinely love his wife.
He owes money to a loan shark, and a man called Hawk is the enforcer.I doubt that Parker invented the idea of the protagonist having a useful and loyal friend on the wrong side of the law, but he popularized it with the creation of Hawk.
I like it a lot more when Spenser just gets to do his thing without his lady friend tagging along, constantly asking him What It All Means. As squicky as it was when he was, say, sleeping with both the mother & daughter of his client, I sort of miss those days. Maybe I can read these books with one hand over my eye to cover Susan. But, hey, Hawk was here so I suppose it wasn't all bad.
A real period piece (the plot screams 1970s), but an important book in the series, despite being a lesser title. For it introduces Hawk.
Spenser gets hired to track down a business man's missing wife.
Spenser's inner nature is explored, his relationship with Susan Silverman progresses, he passes up some easy tail for once, and he runs into Hawk, the bad ass black man against which all others should be measured.
I'll admit, I'm barely old enough to remember Spenser for Hire but I sure remember Avery Brooks as Hawk.The two different plots were well done and I was pleased at how Spenser made them intersect.
I don't really understand the appeal of Susan Silverman, though.
Hawk is cleary Spenser's true soulmate.Four easy stars.
Nothing more can be said then what I have said previously of the other three novels I've read. Great characters and decent plot. Oh one more thing: Hawk is pretty bad ass.
I like the way Spenser talks and thinks.This was my first Parker book.
It’s number 4 in the Spenser series.
It’s typical first person private eye solving a typical mystery with a happy ending.
It’s not a wow kind of book, but I enjoyed it.
In the spoiler I am not giving away the main mysteries.
(view spoiler)[It was not clear to me why the loan shark would not seek revenge against hubby or Spenser.
I was impressed.DATA:Narrative mode: 1st person Spenser.
Swearing language: strong including religious swear words and racial slurs, but rarely used.
Sexual language: none.
Genre: PI mystery.
Hawk is introduced in this novel.I absolutely LOVE Robert Parker's Spenser.
It's hard not to be endeared to his wit and determination to "do right." The introduction of Hawk adds a new layer of complexity to Spenser's character as well.
One of the points that it stood out the most for me in this novel was when Spenser makes the observation, "I don't know if I was scared or not, but Shepard was so scared his face didn't fit." I could have NEVER come up with that description, but when I read it, I could vividly see what Parker was talking about.
Spenser mystery number 4 didn't do it for me. A weird story line with radical feminists looking to buy guns. I know the seventies were strange, but still....Also, lots of relationship angst and tiresome group therapy sessions. A dull denouement with not much action. Meeting Hawk was the one redeeming feature.
This is the fourth book in the Spenser series, a book which is light on his detective work but important for the series for three reasons: it introduces readers to Hawk, a former boxing buddy of Spenser’s, it begins to sort out Spenser and Susan’s relationship and it explains what Spenser calls his “moral code”, the principles by which he lives his life and does his work.It begins as Spenser is hired by Harvey Shepard a suburban businessman, to find his wife Pam who has disappeared.
Spenser wants to help the couple because he knows they are probably in more trouble than they realize, Harvey with King Powers and Pam with the law.
Took me a while to figure out if Spenser was a private detective or a Boston food critic in this one as it seemed as if every thing I was reading was about what food and drinks were offered at a local restaurant or hotel lounge. I thought Bubba was going to start naming all the different ways one could prepare shrimp at one point. If one can get through that and all of Susan's distractions it's not a totally bad book just not what I'm used to with a Spenser book.
Read again 05/04/15 for Maze mystery group.The first time I read this book I was enthusiastically reading all of the Spenser books in order.
Unfortunately Parker was writing faster than I was reading them and I've never finished the entire Spenser series.
This time I read the book having just read "The Big Sleep" by Raymond Chandler and you can certainly see the debt Parker owes to Chandler.
Parker is writing about the hard-boiled detective now set in the 1970s.
The knight-detective is learning to cope with women's liberation and all that applies.
Parker's books are social commentaries as well as mysteries.
This is the second or third Spenser title for me, and they're generally a fun read. Descriptions of the Boston locale stands out since my wife's folks are from there. This plot felt a little dated with the women's libbers, but I liked the introduction of Hawk. As time allows, I'll read deeper into the Spenser series.
And the answer is pretty-well although I’m not sure whether people who have grown up with Google and smartphones will understand telephone message services and the time it takes to find out information in the non-digital age (the book was first published in 1976).
There are times when Spenser and Silverman’s conversation detract a little from the book but the big bonus is Hawk putting in a first appearance before becoming a long-term sidekick for Spenser.
A decent read and if you are looking for well-written crime fiction then Parker’s book are recommended.
Spenser, with 2 s's, just knows how to get people out of jams, even when really horrible people are involved and really smart/dumb clients are involved.
But I love Spenser and Jack Reacher BECAUSE they get themselves out of jams by just thinking about how they are going to go about winning a fight.
You must know what I mean.
And then there is Susan.
"I did it because I love you."Page 184 - 185 .
While we worked on it I told Susan everything we had set up for next day.
Few people can match Susan Silverman for lobster eating.
There was a lot going on in this book - a new recurring character is introduced, an enforcer for mob bosses named Hawk who is a combination of your worst nightmare and a good friend to have; a proposal for marriage by Spenser to his girlfriend, Susan; a client whose wife ran away, joined a militant feminist revolutionary group into bank robbing and guns; and the client himself, who has his own problems leading to a meeting with Hawk.There are the usual wisecracks from Spenser, and his girlfriend, which I enjoy.
All in all, it won't disappoint fans, and I enjoyed it more than the earlier books, but that may be just me getting to know the characters.
The plot is fairly light on the actual mystery elements shifting away from the hermeneutic mode towards a greater emphasis on examining how Spenser reacts to the situation (thus creating apprehension and excitement via the proairetic code).The Promised Land, in addition to having an engaging plot, spends a lot of time focusing on the character and identity of Spenser and his relationship to Susan Silverman.
Slightly dated, but a slick, easy read.
When there's a bad guy around and a helpless woman, Spenser's defenses come to the fore and voila, bad guy is vanquished once again, at least we hope so.In this case, Spenser is hired to find Harvey Shepard's wife, Pam. Without any explanation, Pam disappeared, leaving her children behind.
After some preliminary work and assistance from local police forces, Spenser locates Pam. She's living with a couple of quite militant women and she's not coming home.
She doesn't know what to do so she did the first thing she thought about, she left.The women Pam has associated herself with aren't as innocent as they look and Spenser ends up talking out of the other side of his mouth after an initial encounter.
It’s been a long time since I last read it and I’d forgotten just how tight a writer Parker could be, with dialogue that literally zings along and the occasional, beautifully observed moment.
This has a lot to offer - clever plot, great characters, a keen sense of location and atmosphere - and even though it’s over 30 years old, it’s only very minor areas that date it - fashions and revolutionary ideals.
Can’t recommend this highly enough.2016 update - I’d agree with the original review and, again, leaving it a while to re-read made a lot of it fresh.
Never read on of the Spenser books before, but this one was free.As the forth book in the series it read to me much like it was the first book in the series since it introduces the character Hawk.
My only introduction to Spenser before was the TV series - which I really enjoyed.This novel won the Edgar award in 1977, a fact I am not surprised at.
The dialogue is exceptional and goes beyond the wise-cracking sarcastic Spenser to the relationship with his girlfriend Susan.Darn these free books in a series - they hooked me again and I will have to read more of them.
This started out a little slow with Spenser searching for a missing wife but ended up with loan sharks, women's libbers gone violent, illegal gun sales and a nice wrap up where the bad guys get arrested and a marriage is restored...or is it.Harvey Shepard's idea of a perfect husband is to make lots of money and sacrifice for his wife Pam. Pam, on the other hand, has radical women's lib ideas flowing through her head.
Spenser is hired by Harvey to find her and bring her home.We are introduced to Hawk in this book.
Hawk is working to collect money owed by Harvey to a loan shark.
The fourth book in Spenser is initially hired to find a runaway wife.
He finds the woman who has become involved with a group of reactionaries and has no idea how to untangle herself.
As Spenser is trying to come up with a way out for her, he ends up involved in bailing her husband out of a messy situation of his own.
The main plot turns out to be a calculated maneuvering to allow the “killing two birds with one stone” principle to work.
Although not as a friend, this book is also serves as the introduction of Hawk to the series.
The plot is fast moving and entertaining.
This series really comes into its own with Promised Land.
It has the strongest plot I've seen in the series so far and was gripping from beginning to end.
I've been impatiently waiting for the introduction of Hawk as a character, with vague recollections of his being one of the better parts of the TV show, Spenser for Hire.
While the character at first seems quite different from my vague memories, he's a delightful character nonetheless.
MacDonald in his similar Travis McGee series.
Hopefully there is much more of this to come.
I first read many of the Spenser series over a decade ago.
This time I went farther back in time to one of the first books.
Susan Silverman is a guidance counselor -- in future books she gets her doctorate and becomes a psychologist.The reason I read many of these books is due to their exploration of themes.
The most recurrent themes are honor and the meaning of friendship.I liked the book but believe the later ones to be better, I think due to the deepening relationship between Spenser, his girlfriend Susan, and Hawk -- his mirror image.
On rereading, the fourth Spenser book proved to be what I remembered: a strong addition to the p.i. shelf.
Spenser had a tougher edge then.
Hawk was still a wary opponent,not a sidekick.
Susan, newly arrived, was still engaged in figuring out who Spenser was, not in being an irritating voice for his softer side.
(Her attempt to figure out the differences and similarities between Spenser and Hawk were still fresh, and meaningful.) Spenser's social observations were more biting.
The books lost that edge some time after "A Catskill Eage,' though there were occasional echoes ("Small Vices, say).
One of the earlier Spenser novels. The plot and pacing isn't as good as the later books, but the first introduction to Hawk is nice to see and baby Spenser fumbling his way through a case is always entertaining. The involvement of the radical feminists was rather strange a left-field, presumably linked to some current events in the US in the mid-70s, and also to Spenser's ongoing examination of himself as a man and the roles of men and women.Definitely a recommended read, for fans of the Great American Detective novel.
More of the great wisecracking PI
This book was a little more strange. I didn't feel as connected to it as I had to the previous ones. He finds a place for a neglected woman to stay, and helps her husband, who is in financial straits. Susan Silverman plays a good sized role in this one, as they discuss whether or not they should get married. Hawk is also a character--not appreciated by the husband, since he pushes the young son.
The fourth Spenser novel. Spenser finds a missing wife and is caught between a militant feminist cult and a vicious mobster. The wittiest in the series yet; Spenser's erudite and self-deprecating humor is a real plus. But at times the tone's quite simplistic or preachy ("You man haters who don't understand the world..."). Worse, Spenser's too much of a super hero for me. He’s smart, he kicks everyone's ass, his stunning girlfriend eats lobster without getting butter on her lips, etc etc.
