https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/591189.The_Rocking_Horse_Winner
When he asks why, she says, “slowly and bitterly, ‘it’s because your father has no luck.’” She fails to mention her own compulsive spending.“Is luck money, mother?”“No, Paul!
But if you “make” it, surely it’s skill, effort, and persistence, rather than luck?Rationalists like me can’t manufacture luck and can’t hope for Paul’s paranormal solution.That leaves us with a delicate balancing act: to accept and enjoy what we have right now, even as we reach out and up, striving for more and better lives, more and better selves.Ad AstraAs a child, I named my own rocking horse Pegasus because I knew he had wings.
I won no money, but I lived to tell the tales and to see my own, loved, child ride Pegasus as I had done.
This is a tragic story about how humans are never satisfied with what they have and enough is never enough for them. The story is so strong and real, it makes you take a good look at the things you value in your life and ask yourself are they worth the sacrifices you make to gain them.You can read the short story here: http://www.classicshorts.com/stories/...
A haunting story that sent a shudder through me at the end. This would have made a perfect episode of the old TV series "The Twilight Zone". Nevertheless, it was a first class fun read.
D.H. Lawrence's 1926 classic short story, The Rocking Horse Winner pulls at your heartstrings from the get-go and refuses to let go until its tragic culmination. As seen below, the opening paragraph does more than make for an emotional first impression, Lawrence's impressive and somehow beautiful prose sucks you in immediately, making it impossible to put down. "There was a woman who was beautiful, who started with all the advantages, yet she had no luck. She married for love, and the love turn
She had bonny children, yet she felt they had been thrust upon her, and she could not love them.
And hurriedly she felt she must cover up some fault in herself.
Nevertheless, when her children were present, she always felt the centre of her heart go hard.
Only she herself knew that at the centre of her heart was a hard little place that could not feel love, no, not for anybody.
The pictures that Lawrence delivers to the reader is incredibly vivid, increasingly compelling (I couldn't finish it fast enough, really,) and though there are little details like the protagonist's "uncanny blue eyes" that are emphasized for whatever reason, every word serves a purpose.
I 'read' this on audio.
I'm getting used to the medium and can see that the acting ability of the narrator is what makes all the difference.
More difference that the actual text written by the author.
This narrator, a woman, chose to give the little boy a thin, reedy voice, almost laughable, but written, I could see that this had considerably greater depth.No matter what I read and hear, I have to say that still to me listening to an audio book is entirely synonymous to listening to a radio play and in no way has the depth of a written book - after all th e characterisation and emphasis have all been taken out of my hands and, like with a film, its someone else's interpretation that is feeding my brain.
لم أكن أنوي "كالكثير من الكتب التي قرأتها" أن أقرأ قصص لورانس القصيرة خلال هذه الأيام، لقد قرأت عنه وعن اسلوبه وسرديته السلسلة جداً في كتاب how to read and why لكن لم أكن أشعر أبداَ برغبة في القراءة له لا لسبب سوى ان اسمه لم يعجبني xD ..
أو لنقل أن القصة قرأتني.
. هناك الكثير من المرايا، والأكثر منها هي التنبؤات التي تحملها.
تبدأ القصة عن أم وأطفالها الثلاثة، وذلك الشعور الصامت المعروف بينهم جميعاً، الذي لاينطق باسمه أحد، لكن الكل يسمعه طوال الوقت.
لن أتردد أن أقرأ باقي قصصه حتى وإن لم يعجبني اسمك يالورانس.
Υπάρχουν άνθρωποι άπληστοι κι αχόρταγοι,μοιρολάτρες και απαισιόδοξοι. Δεν χρειάζεται να εξαπλώσουν τη δική τους σαπίλα στην αθωότητά των παιδιών τους.Αυτό πήρα από την υπέροχη ιστοριούλα του Lawrence με την εκπληκτική γραφή του, που σίγουρα θα πρότεινα σε κάθε ενήλικα και σε κάθε παιδί να διαβάσει.
A short story rendered to perfection. It’s about how a parent’s greed and dissatisfaction can affect their children and rob them of their innocence. Lots of symbolism in the story and I really liked it.
Paul, the son of a loveless mother who is never satisfied with her lot, who considers herself unlucky because she hasn’t more money, obsesses about how he might help her be lucky, happy, and the home serene.
When he surreptitiously manages to have his mother receive some of it, she is still not satisfied.Finally, in an orgy of rocking, he is able to predict a winner that earns him 80,000 pounds, but the ride pushes him over the edge into brain fever and death.
A small child takes upon himself the impossible task of making a loveless and eternally unsatisfied adult be happy, a futile aspiration guaranteed to rob him of his childhood, in a real sense of his life.
I'm not all that impressed by antiquity, nor do I feel the need to rate something highly just because it is a lauded piece of literature.
So now that we have gotten that out the way, I must say that The Rocking Horse Winner is a lackluster tale, more akin to a fable, that blatantly and obtrusively tries to weave in morality within its plot with all the elegance of a T-Rex trying to make up a bed.
The writing was colorless, the characters went unexplained, and the plot and moral of the story was so obvious, really, it need not be written.
This remains my favorite short story of all time. In that I will follow my dictum of when I was 15 and suggest that writing about it would damage the beauty of it. My English teachers were not impressed by my appeal to aesthetics.This story is about how greed overwhelms and isolates and alienates us from what is truly valuable in life, a constant theme within Lawrence. The topic is treated masterfully and the end is tragic. To me this wonderful story will always be hauntingly beautiful with a moral to which the modern world has not paid sufficient attention.
I must have been around 12 when I read this story and I remember it blowing my mind. I have not read it since, and while knowing practically nothing about psychology then, even though as an adult I went into social work, it is a great story with some psy elements and a certain 'creepiness ' about it. Time to re-discover it after over 40 years.A++++++++
Αυτό το βιβλίο συμπεριλαμβάνει 4 διηγήματα του D.H. Lawrence, τα οποία ως κύριο θέμα έχουν την σημασία που είχε η κοινωνική θέση και τα χρήματα στα μάτια των ανθρώπων.
Η ερώτηση, που κατά τη γνώμη μου, θέτει ο συγγραφέας, είναι εάν συνειδητοποιούν ποτέ τι έχασαν στον αγώνα τους για περισσότερα κέρδη και τι θυσίασαν."Πράγματα"Το διήγημα αυτό σατιρίζει τους ανθρώπους που ζουν "ελεύθεροι" και εκπροσωπούν ένα ψευδή ιδεαλισμό, όλα βεβαίως στο βωμό του "φαίνεσθαι".
The story ends with the boy struggling to keep up with the amount of money that he thinks his mother wants, because she continually desires more and more money.
The boy dies one night after riding the rocking horse for a very long time.I suppose that the moral of the story is about the mother's greed.
While the boy continually wins races, it isn't enough for his parents, who want more and more expensive items.
The boy dies before ever getting what he wanted, which was to be loved by his mother, while she was caught up in a world where she could never have enough."
In this case the child without the knowledge of his mom feels called to this to relieve the hard circumstance of his family and it ends in the way that you think a young child taking financial matters in his own hand behind his parent's back would but the plot...is not what you thought it was going to be.
This book has a lot of interpretations from economic to social to feminist.
I for one would think a combination of greed, bad communication, and indifference combine to be the real antagonist in this story, but I will let you read and tell me if I'm right.
I studied D.H. Lawrence's The Rocking Horse Winner in my creative writing class some time ago and it has always been a piece of his work that I greatly admire.
Needless to say to those who have read The Rocking Horse Winner, Freud would have a field day with this.
Symbolism is so prominant here, and it is when you slowly begin to decipher the true meanings behind the commonplace objects that Lawrence mentions that you will fully understand the story.
I no longer read a story and accept all of the details for face value.
You may read online here.Opening lines:There was a woman who was beautiful, who started with all the advantages, yet she had no luck. She married for love, and the love turned to dust. She had bonny children, yet she felt they had been thrust upon her, and she could not love them.
Prime example of how a short story can be done to perfection. Not a single word wasted.
Pure Gothic.
Read this back when I was in college for an English Lit Class and totally loved it. "Master Painting Room" has stuck in my head ever since... Not that I need a special room for my Master Painting LOL
One of the great short stories of all time. A must for all readers, especially those who haven't latched on to the short story genre. Sometimes a short story can stick with you far longer than a full length novel.
This story continues to haunt me. Sometimes when I'm paying bills, I can hear myself chanting "There must be more money. There must be more money."
As for D.H. Lawrence his critical examination of families who live beyond their means touches a nerve.
The view of the child raised in a family where the horse race millionaire was a testament to skilled selection, or a nightmare depending upon the reader's' perception of gambling is perhaps as much entertainment today as back in the 1800's!.
What if the vice lands on the shoulders of a child- "There must be more money -The children could hear it all the time "-And Paul was one of those boys willing to please his mother.
One must examine if Paul's family was Out of touch with reality or a child of delicate conditioning.
The story ends with the boy struggling to keep up with the amount of money that he thinks his mother wants, because she continually desires more and more money.
The boy dies one night after riding the rocking horse for a very long time.I suppose that the moral of the story is about the mother's greed.
While the boy continually wins races, it isn't enough for his parents, who want more and more expensive items.
The boy dies before ever getting what he wanted, which was to be loved by his mother, while she was caught up in a world where she could never have enough.
A young boy (dead by the end of the story), in a family with a tragic pretentions on wealth, discovered that by riding his rocking-horse toy he could sometimes predict the winner of horse races.I read it several times, what the boy's uncle (his mother's brother) told his mother after he (the boy) had died yet I could not get its meaning.
The uncle told the boy's mother: "My God, Hester, you're eighty-odd thousand to the good, and a poor devil of a son to the bad.
But, poor devil, poor devil, he's best gone out of a life where he rides his rocking-horse to find a winner."
One of the best short stories ever. Very beautifully written.This is a comfortably uncomfortable story about how a deadly sin could drive a boy mad.MOOOOORE.... MOOOOORE...I'm not going to say more, you have to read it!
Paul’s oedipal complex with his emotionally closed off mother, the absence of his father as a strong figure in his life, and his uncle Oscar’s encouragement of addictive behaviours in Paul and Hester culminates in a tale that has the hallmarks of modern family dramas.
“The Rocking Horse Winner” starts by introducing Hester’s life to the reader.
As stated above, despite Paul being the primary protagonist of the story, the story serves as a cautionary tale with Hester as the role we are meant to learn from.
“The Rocking Horse Winner” is also a tale about the perils of greed and gambling.
This short story that tells of greed seems to be something that happens whether it was in the time of this author or in the here and now.
The boy noticed that his family needed more money and it seemed to him that the house whispers it all the time.
He owns a rocking horse, and when he rode it for a very long time he seems to know the names of the winners in the horse-races in town.
Because of that, he won a lot of money (with the help of his uncle and the family's gardener) and he wanted five-thousand of that winnings to be sent to his mother on her birthdays, one-thousand every year.
Then he rode his rocking horse again to know the name of the winning horse.
This story is so sad.
It's so heavily laden with greed that it makes me sick.
The mother and father destroy their marriage, their home and their children with their greed.
The oldest, a boy, sets out to prove to his mother that he is lucky because, to her, luck means you can always get more money.
As the house whispers, "There must be more money!" the boy named Paul continues to do what he can to become lucky never telling his mother his secret: Sometimes he is sure about the winning horse in the races.
This is an awesome story with a great moral.
