https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/244338.Henry_and_Ribsy
Ramona is actually naughty in this one, not just imaginative.
Ribsy is pretty poorly-behaved, too.
But the grown-ups aren't much better; witness the scene on the playground when all the busybody ladies thought that Ribsy was bothering/ frightening Ramona, when it was actually the other way 'round.
Anyway, this is the one with the garbage, the loose canine teeth, and the bad haircuts.
They're all fun.
And, btw, since they're old, one could argue that they're a bit dated...
but I argue that they're almost like joyful historical fiction...
children can learn how the value of a dime changes, for example.
I asked my son if he liked this book and if he wanted to give it 4 stars or 5 stars. He replied, "SIX stars!!!!"
I read this book so many times when I was seven or eight and just getting into chapter books. I longed for a dog back then, and of course I only wanted one more (despite Ribsy's escapades) after reading this story. It's sweet, easy to read, and entertaining. Nowadays I'd probably find it a little simple, but for anyone aged 6-10, this is a fantastic book! It's one I'm looking forward to passing on to my kids and grandkids (someday ... in the distant future ...).~Kellyn Roth, Reveries Reviews
I witness my children relating to these books as they listen to them, despite the generational gap, and I can relate to them now on a new level, as an adult parent looking back on myself and my exaggerated woes as a child.
I did have to answer questions, however, such as, “Did kids used to be allowed to ride buses by themselves?” (Henry is in 3rd grade and riding about town to the YMCA and home and such.) “Why don’t parents let kids do things by themselves anymore?” and so forth.
ตามเกบเซตราโมนาในมุมมองของเฮนรีคะนารักยอนวัยผูใหญอานกยังสนุกดีนะ
ตามเก็บเซ็ตราโมนาในมุมมองของเฮนรีค่ะน่ารักย้อนวัยผู้ใหญ่อ่านก็ยังสนุกดีนะ
Book 15Jake Olson This kid is just like any other kid, Henry just wants to have some fun and go salmon fishing with his day.
His dog Ribsy has been getting into lots of trouble and he doesn't do anything about it because he is always talking about the trash and how he hates to take it out.
So he does every thing he can to keep his dog out of trouble and hoping to catch a giant Chinook salmon, well that is what he boasts out to is friend scooter.
His book is great, it has all these things I can related to, like about fishing and an old dog and friend trouble.
Reading this book to my kids, I only wished I'd started this series with them sooner. But they loved it and want to read more books in the series. I think they connect with Henry's desire to do grown things (e.g., to go on the fishing trip with the adults). I was glad it was me doing the reading for this one because there's a one-sentence tooth-fairy spoiler that I managed to skip over. Otherwise it would be a perfect book for them to read on their own.
Henry so much wants to go salmon fishing with his dad, but he has to earn the trip by making sure that Ribsy behaves for the rest of the summer. It's touch and go for a bit, but in the end, Henry's still saying, "Good old Ribsy."Charlie, I think, is officially a Cleary fan - he's loving the Henry/Beezus/Ramona stories.
Owen: I liked it. It was so fun and it was really cool. I liked how Henry caught the chinook (salmon) with his bare hands. I WANT SOME PTA! Okay, that’s it. Mom: Another fun book by Beverly Cleary! We loved Henry Huggins. We liked this one just as well and more than Ribsy.
Anyway, this is, I think, the only Ribsy book I hadn't read as a kid.
It was probably that time when I was three and at these friends of my parent's house and I was crawling around and their dog got territorial and bit me and I had to go to the ER to get stitches.
Anyway, my point being that Ribsy is okay for a dog.
Unless my point is that I almost prefer Ramona in these books, as she doesn't talk much yet, and you don't know what she's thinking, making her actions even more inexplicable.
THE SUNDAY FAMILY READThis was the best book about Henry Huggins so far.
Ribsy, Henry's dog, has been getting in trouble lately.
Henry wants to go fishing with his dad.
The deal is if Henry can keep Ribsy out of trouble for several weeks, he can go fishing.It is hard, Beezus helps Henry, but Ramona is worse than Ribsy.
All the incidents are hilarious as the kids manage to keep Ribsy in line.
Henry as usual is in competition with Scooter.The climax of the fishing trip is so exciting.
Henry and Ribsy is the standout of the collection up to this point.
To celebrate the author, Beverly Cleary, 94th birthday last week, I located my copy of Henry and Ribsy -- seven chapters of adventure for any age. I particularly enjoyed Ramona's demand for a P.T.A. in chapter five; Ribsy's rescue in chapter six; and Henry's catch of the Chinook in chapter seven. I had to do my research on "tin pants" and "silverside chinook". Because the book was written in 1954, Henry was delighted with his allowance being raised to 40 cents per week. Gee, how times have changed.
Henry just wants to go fishing with his dad. But the deal requires him to keep Ribsy under control. That would be a whole lot easier if circumstances AROUND Ribsy didn't lend themselves to become so much chaos.Fun to read again as an adult. My daughter loved the book so much she asked for all the other Henry books for Christmas. This is a clear win given my daughter is dyslexic and reading is a horrid chore for her most of the time. Yay for Beverly Cleary!
I loved the Henry and Ribsy books as a kid. Perhaps it was because I generally have a love for books written by Beverly Cleary, or maybe just because I am so into animals and human relationships. Ribsy was a hilarious fictional dog. He actually acted like a dog, not a romanticized fuzzy human. Loved it!
This is a real "boy and his dog" story. And it has a happy ending, not a sad one where the boy has to shoot his dog.I loved this book and I know it was written during the fifties, but didn't people use leashes back then? And why would they ever bring a dog on a fishing boat? Oh well, I guess if that didn't happen, there wouldn't be a story!
A funny, clean book for young readers, as well as old...despite it's simple writing you will be sure to enjoy this one. Henry's dad strikes a bargain with him: if he keeps Ribsy out of travel he'll take Henry on a fishing trip. Easier said than done :)
I have fond memories of Ramona in this one! And such a sweet story about the classic "boy and his dog". Great job, Mrs. Cleary!
I liked it
I don't think I enjoyed this as much as the first Henry Huggins book, but I still remember liking it well enough. :)
These were among my absolute favorite books as a kid.
The book is about a boy who wanted to go fishing with his father, but he had a dog named Ribsy who got into loads of trouble every time.
His father told him if he cannot keep Ribsy under control he won’t go to that fishing trip that was planned for the middle of September.Ribsy got into so many troubles.
Hendry started to teach Ribsy how to behave and finally he was under control.I give this book 4 stars out of 5 because there are some other parts were included in the story and I didn’t understand why.
The book, written in 1954, stands up pretty well because Cleary sticks to the basics of good story telling, and that never goes out of style.
There are only a few things that today's kid will find strange; a woman pushing a child in a Taylor-tot (an early version of a stroller), tin pants (water-resistant pants worn by fishermen), and the fact that Henry feeds Ribsy copious amounts of horse meat.
Ew. Other than that, I think a seven year old in 2017 would still enjoy these stories of a boy and his dog.By the way, I see that as I write this Beverly Cleary is still among us, having celebrated her 101st birthday last April!
Once again, Ramona is beyond infuriating.
Along with all the helicopter mothers from the PTA and their assumptions.
Led to a nice conversation on ‘jumping to conclusions’ though.
And thank goodness an experienced professional in dealing with children knew just what her type was and saw the flaws in the assumptions of Mrs Whisser-whatever.
I was also appalled at Henry’s parents during the whole hair cutting thing.
Just to save a buck you’re willing to subject your child to bullying and teasing due to your obvious ineptitude (not to mention not appreciating or understanding the skill it takes to properly cut hair).
Henry knows his dad takes his tooth and puts money under his pillow????
Thanks.......The kids laughed at some parts.
They like that Ribsy was in this book more.
Henry has to keep him under control to earn a fishing trip with his dad.
It taught responsibility, but was a little much- blaming Henry for every choice the dog made.
This is another good installment of the Henry series.
A good, quality book that I'm sure we will read again.
I'm so glad Neil Patrick Harris narrated this book!
Apparently that's the only one he didn't narrate.
Ok not sure why.
WARNING: This books outs the tooth fairy!
I wasn't thrilled to discover this when reading aloud to my 3 kids, one of whom hasn't even lost any teeth yet!
Why do authors feel the need to do that?
First we had Santa and the Tooth Fairy outed by Judy Blume in the Fudge series, now Beverly Cleary had to go and say that Henry knows it is his dad who takes his tooth and puts the money under his pillow.
Come on kids' authors!
Let the little ones have a little magic without spoiling it.
Completely unnecessary part of these books.
This book is OLD. References to tin lunch boxes, radio songs, metal trash pails, etc. At times you feel like you are reading a Dick and Jane. However, the book really holds up to contemporary standards and my 2nd graders still love it. Such a great example of showing one's writing instead of telling. The most ordinary, day to day, stories (especially in the life of a kid) are the best. So authentic.
This is a book from my childhood, and I grew up in the same neighborhood as the setting, so it was especially wonderful to read this to my grandkids, who live in Norway. The chapters are lovely little stories about life in a quieter time. Henry is a resourceful little boy, and learning how he figures out workable solutions that include creativity, determination, and work. It is so gratifying. I love this book.
Genre: Contemporary RealisticRecommended Grade Level: Middle GradesBeverly Cleary is one of my favorite authors because of how her characters all intertwine and how each book is set in a simpler time when the pace of life was slower. I liked "Henry and Ribsy" especially for boys, because I feel that sometimes they move to informational text from picture books and never read any stories. Henry is a character that I can see many boys relating to and because it is a series, would get them into reading contemporary realistic books even more.
Henry must keep Ribsy out of trouble so that they go on a fishing trip with his father. Of course Ribsy gets into trouble all with good intentions. There are also bad haircuts, Ramona being a pest, and other antics with friends. I don’t love these as I do the Ramona books - but they are still fun - and it’s interesting to see how beezus and Ramona figure in these earlier stories.
In this book, we are introduced to more of Ramona's character, Henry is tasked with taking out the trash, has loose teeth, gets to go fishing with his dad...and gets a really bad haircut. Neil Patrick Harris does a great job with the narration.
