https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/105711.The_Big_Sleep_and_Other_Novels
"Ever hear of anybody named Paul Marston?'His head came up slowly. His eyes focused, but with effort. I could see him fighting for control. He won the fight - for the moment. His face became expressionless."Never did," he said carefully, speaking very slowly. "Who's he?" Collection containing The Big Sleep, Farewell My Lovely and The Long Goodbye.The joy of this collection is seeing the change in Chandler's style, from needing to have the door thrown open by someone with a gun in their hand to
"Ever hear of anybody named Paul Marston?'His head came up slowly.
I could see him fighting for control.
He won the fight - for the moment.
His face became expressionless."Never did," he said carefully, speaking very slowly.
I'm not sure that these stories ever makes complete sense - there's that famous story about the film version of one of Chandler's stories, but the atmosphere is enough to carry the eyes onwards.
The three novels here move from 'The Big Sleep" with its twisted sisters, via "Farewell my Lovely" with that famous line; " A blonde to make a Bishop kick a hole in a stained- glass window" and the unforgettable Moose Malloy: "He was a big man, but not more than six feet five inches tall and not wider than a beer truck" who almost steals the lime light; to "The Long Goodbye" where Chandler almost managed to ditch plot.
Endlessly re readable, though if you're after plot driven detective stories with tidy endings, Chandler and Marlowe are not for you.
How could I judge if Black had done a good job (whether I enjoyed it or not), if I didn't know how the original stood up?I will at some point stop over-thinking this shit, but until then let's start at the start, eh?The Big Sleep is Chandler's first Philip Marlow novel, introducing to the world the dog-eared sleuth who is probably better known for being played by Bogart.The character himself is simply wonderful.
In fact, I can't remember the last time I was enjoying a book so much I was actually yearning for the next time I was in Marlow's company.Hopefully it won't be too long before I return to this three-in-one book and get to work on Farewell My Lovely

Aner ikke hvad der skete i denne her bog. Hørte den som lydbog. Det skal man ikke gøre. Kunne godt forestille mig den var god.
The collection includes The Big Sleep (published in 1939 and filmed under that title by Howard Hawks in 1945/46), Farewell, My Lovely (published in 1940 and filmed as Murder, My Sweet by Edward Dmytryk in 1944), and The Long Goodbye (published in 1953 and shot by Robert Altman in 1973).
To sum up, The Big Sleep hangs closest to the film (although Hawks' omissions make the twisty plot nearly incomprehensible), Farewell, My Lovely, seems to double in length with additional scenes in the book, and The Long Goodbye is familiar to a point but Altman creates his own unique work out of Chandler's starting place.
Raymond Chandler's novels that comprised as part of this collection always felt too short for me to justify picking them up as paperback copies individually, but when I saw that The Big Sleep, Farewell My Lovely and The Long Good-Bye were all published together as an Omnibus edition I knew I had to pick it up and I was blown away by Chandler's excellent writing as he brings the truly memorable PI Phillip Marlowe and his adventures to life in a classic example of the noir genre at its best.
Chandler's writing style, his cast of characters and the way he depicts post-war Los Angeles are so iconic that it feels familiar, even cliche, when you read him for the first time.
Los Angeles is sketched out as an intoxicating, decadent hive of vice and mendacity, and the dialogue absolutely crackles, even with now-quaint LA street slang.
The higher literary values of Chandler's writing - plot ambiguity, deep characters, unreliable narration, and an aversion to spelling things out for the reader - are laced with the guilty, page-turning pleasures of lurid pulp fiction.As far as iconic detectives go, it's influential as Sherlock Holmes, and honestly, a lot more interesting to read.
If I could write like anyone it would be a combination of Raymond Chandler and Douglas Adams, I have read this compilation almost every year since I can remember, and there is always, always a different line that stops me in the page and makes me want to write like he does.
Good collection. Stories tend to get a bit obese in the middle, but climaxes are always good.
I have always love the urban myth of William Faulkner and Leigh Brackett trying to write the screen play for the 1946 Big Sleep, and could not figure out who killed a certain character, and there is a reason for this, neither could Raymond Chandler.
No, I am taking about its women are the reason why men drink and do violent things, they are often bad or dead and sometimes both, and deserve everything that is coming to them (expect one character).
Though in a weird way it fits in well in with the writing and world Chandler created, as to repeat myself you are firmly in Marlowe's head, and this is how he sees the world.
All three of these novels - "The Big Sleep," "Farewell, My Lovely" and "The Long Goodbye" - are fantastic.
While most of Marlowe's character traits are consistent throughout, two of these books ("Farewell, My Lovely" and "The Long Goodbye") show hints of a more complex Marlowe.
Where he is almost flippant in "The Big Sleep," he comes off as personally devoted to solving the mysteries in "Farewell, My Lovely" and "The Long Goodbye." What's more - he seems far more vulnerable in these two books.
A blonde to make a bishop kick a hole in a stained-glass window.I needed a drink, I needed a lot of life insurance, I needed a vacation, I needed a home in the country.
You don’t make a dime that way.”This particular volume by Penguin contains the following novels: The Big Sleep, Farewell My Lovely, and The Long Goodbye.
The Big Sleep is a good story but it failed to satisfy me.Farewell My Lovely and The Long Goodbye have more intricate and longer storylines; so much so that I felt The Long Goodbye began to drag a little halfway through, and the story does not conclude in as a neat a fashion as I had expected.
The Big Sleep - 4/5 Chandler's first novel.
The characters felt more fleshed out, more colorful this time around, and the plot zips along through all its various convolutions like an old-timey carnival thrill ride.
I'd recently seen Robert Altman's big screen adaptation and decided it was about time I sampled some Chandler.
The cast of characters was a little thin and the plot was ...
[SPOILERS] I have no idea why Marlowe had such a high opinion of Terry Lennox, and frankly the latter's marriage to a rich heiress who just happened to live in the same neighborhood as his long lost first wife, half a world away from where they'd last seen each other, is just too convenient for me to accept.
While the seedier aspects of vintage noir often strike modern readers as campy, the bleakness of 'The Big Sleep' disturbs us as much as it does Marlowe (though it must be said that the novel’s two gay characters are treated with a cartoonish contempt one would hope not to find in a 21st-century work).Chandler’s novel, like all good noir, is an adventure story without heroism or romance: no lessons are learned, and no lives are changed (at least not for the better).
At times, though, 'The Big Sleep' is wonderfully human – even when its characters are at their most debauched – and that allows it to both exemplify and transcend its genre.
The atmosphere, the plot twists, the gritty reality and the wit captured me so much that I wanted to read the source of it.
Along the course of these stories the reader can experience the course or Marlowe's life - or at least that part of it that is written down - and Chandler's evolution as a writer.No review I could ever write would do Chandler justice, but for people who enjoy the dark, gritty, corrupted Los Angeles of 60-70 years ago, for people who enjoy a good detective mystery, for people who like noir, for people who enjoy evocative descriptions that make you feel like you can see everything with your own eyes, for people who just want to go to a smoky club, be left alone and down some hard whisky: this is for them.
There is so much to be savoured in this book.
The rude, witty and weathered chivalry of his lead character with the poignant sense of humour, provide a double vision on the classic, through an ever-accurate prism of the modern.
Chandler has a way of making language work for him in the most inventive, yet also accurate and accessible way.
After reading this book, it is no wonder to me Philip Marlowe is a detective icon, and Raymond Chandler is one of the most beloved and imitated American authors.
The Big Sleep and The Long Goodbye are both great, but Farewell, My Lovely is the best by far. I haven't yet read The Simple Art of Murder, Playback, Poodle Springs or The Pencil, but of the ones I have read it's by far the best, and would make this book worthwhile on its own; The other two are just icing on the cake, really.

The Big Sleep, Farewell My Lovely, and The Long Goodbye are Chandler at the height of his powers.
I reread this book about once a year, and it's one of the few that I still love as much now as when I first did, some twenty years ago.
Sure, you can spot a few flaws: Chandler's attitudes towards women and gays may grate for the modern reader, but in the most part it feels utterly contemporary in style if not setting.
Philip Marlowe is also one of the great characters - even if he is surprisingly passive for a protagonist, you feel his presence throughout.

I read the short story that this novel was based on a few months ago, I remembered the porn library and the high naked girl.
But there was enough different in the longer version that made it really enjoyable even though I was familiar with the story.
I thoroughly enjoyed this and the ending was beautiful.
I really enjoyed the style.
The first person narration was just such a great insight into the character and there were some really amusing parts.
But it made for an enjoyable ride.
I'm looking forward to reading more Chandler novels.
This collection of all three Philip Marlowe novels seems to tire some out, and fascinate others.
For my part, I quietly enjoyed The Big Sleep, struggled with Farewell, My Lovely, and loved The Long Goodbye.
Finishing the first novel with modest respect for Chandler's dialogue skills and surprisingly inventive, blunt style of imagery, I grew to outright admire his talent, and will miss his whisky drinking, womanising, sullen and stubborn PI.
Probably in part because it took me six weeks on and off to read (it can feel dense in places, even if it isn't really), I am rather sad to put this one down.
The seemingly endless epilogues in fact waste not a word.
Indeed every word in each story is valuable, or at least worth treasuring.
I filled a pipe, paraded the chessmen and inspected them for French shaves and loose buttons, and played a championship tournament game between Gortchakoff and Meninkin, seventy-two moves to a draw, a prize specimen of the irresistible force meeting the immovable object, a battle without armor, a war without blood, and as elaborate a waste of human intelligence as you could find anywhere outside an advertising agency."One of those hug the book to your chest and sigh moments.
I picked up these books because I heard a review on the radio and I'm glad I did because I really enjoyed them. There was some very clever writing here and the stories of the dark underbelly of California's super rich were intriguing. The women were appalling - the only positive female character in the three books I read was Anne Riordan in Farewell my Lovely, and I was never sure what she was doing there.
Chandler is a great writer. The prose is straightforward, the figurative language is often brilliant, and the pace clips along without much canoodling. The dialogue is excellent, and Marlowe is a great character.That said, the writing can be uneven at times, and the mystery aspects are fairly slim--they're more of a backdrop for Chandler's writing and observations.I'm keen to read more of his stuff.
I guess this book was super provocative when it was published. Even though it's not so much now, the narrator's voice is snappy and direct, and the action moves right along. It's got satisfying revelations, dirty back room deals, and dangerous undertow. I liked it. I read most of it in my car on a rain-slicked night, under an old streetlight. On a stakeout. Perfect.
Having read this I feel like someone has handed me the key to understanding a whole swath of Americana. These stories are fun to read, Chandler keeps the pace high and Marlowe is a unique character, iconic even.
So maybe hardboiled detective stories from the 30s don't age so well (the PC police would have a good time shining a bright light on these stories in the homicide detective's messy office) - but it's still darn good writing. Off to find me some Dashiell Hammett.
This was a superb set of detective novels - dense with atmosphere and character, unfathomable mystery and genuinely literate. Marlowe is the archetypal flawed yet perfect detective for his times and his city. Brilliant.
