https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2360997.Witness_for_the_Prosecution
A great mystery by Agatha Christie. This story showed how even the smartest lawyer or detective can be fooled. It takes place in London in the 1920s where a murder has occurred. A young man is accused of the murder in what appears to be a double cross in the court room. This story is full of twists and turns and worth the read.
From BBC iPlayer:1920s London.
A murder, brutal and bloodthirsty, has stained the plush carpets of a handsome London townhouse - the victim is the beautiful widow Emily French.
Mayhew, a penniless solicitor, is put in charge of Leonard's case.
Initially treating the suspect with indifference, Mayhew is gradually moved by the young man's case.
The entire case rests on her alibi, and Mayhew is reassured to learn that she witnessed Leonard return at 9.30, the time when he supposedly murdered Emily.
Will she testify and save her husband, or will his infidelity make her vengeful?http://www.bbc.co.uk/iplayer/episode/...
সতযি মুগধ হয়ে গেলাম, গলপটা যে ভাবে শেষ হলো এর রেশ অনেকদিন মনে থেকে যাবে। বেশ ভালো লাগলো। অধিকাংশ সময়েই পরিয় মানুষগুলোর জনয করা কাজের পরকৃত অরথ থাকে না। আমরা অরথ খুঁজিও না। আবার খুজে পাই ও না।
সত্যি মুগ্ধ হয়ে গেলাম, গল্পটা যে ভাবে শেষ হলো এর রেশ অনেকদিন মনে থেকে যাবে। বেশ ভালো লাগলো। অধিকাংশ সময়েই প্রিয় মানুষগুলোর জন্য করা কাজের প্রকৃত অর্থ থাকে না। আমরা অর্থ খুঁজিও না। আবার খুজে পাই ও না।
I just started this, but the first story was great, exactly what I look for in an Agatha Christie book.Update: I'm finished now, and the rest of the stories were just as great. Definitely one of the best Agatha Christies I've read so far, I think the short story might have been a good form for her.
The first short story (and title) is one of those tales that is now almost a trope, but at the time was a new idea to show how even the smartest lawyer or detective can be fooled. The Poirot tale is a locked room mystery, and really a fine example of the idea. The remaining stories are all quite good, but do depend on the protagonist being gullible or greatly over-confident.Still, the book is well worth your time to find and read.Read it!
Surprisingly delicious read! I know Agatha Christie stories are normally all good, but this one took me by surprise. I love the ending! It made me crave for more crime fiction.
Actually 3 and a half stars. I liked the first story, witness for the prosecution very much,the rest were not so powerful but gripping nonetheless.
Outstanding... :)
''The Witness For The Prosecution''(1925) is one of the most mysterical short stories ever written by ''Queen of Crime'' (Agatha Christie) and definetely illustrates the aphorism , ‘’what goes around, comes around’’ .
When she comes to the hall,she makes a defense that her husband is guilty.
There is also a lot of ironies in ‘’The Witness For The Prosecution.’’ Throughout the story we see that lots of misstatement was given deliberately by Christie to mislead the audience.
I know he was guilty.’’Agatha Christie made an unexpected alternate ending.
There comes up a mistress which does not Show up during the story.
I had no idea that "Witness for the Prosecution" was a short story. I know that movies have been made from it. I'm sure there's a good bit of poetic license occurring in those cases. It was a good story, though. Although it is a short story, the arc of the plot is superb. Very thought provoking. I didn't make time to read the rest of the stories in the collection, but it will be on my to do list.
Nice twist at the end.
This is a collection of short stories. Enjoyable little read.
I enjoyed this overall. A quick read, with a nice little twist at the end. The bits about habit were nice, too, since we all have them.
I never knew this was a short story. Very succinct.
This was a really quick and enjoyable read. I also recommend watching the movie version with Marlene Dietrich as well.
Spisovateľka, ktorú odmietalo jedno vydavateľstvo za druhým – až sa napokon stala kráľovnou detektívneho žánru…Problém s Agathou Christie je len jeden: rýchlo chcete byť na konci, ale nechcete, aby ten koniec prišiel.
Je to súbor jedenástich poviedok plných rozporuplných postáv, pričom v tej poslednej sa stretneme aj s obľúbeným Herculom Poirotom.
Práve preto je Agatha Christie právom titulovaná kráľovnou detektívneho žánru, pretože aj na pár stranách dokáže napísať pútavé a zamotané príbehy živých postáv.
Poviedky nepatria k mojim obľúbeným formám epických žánrov, no pri Agathe Christie mi to vôbec neprekáža.
Autor má čerpať zo života, počuješ?“Ústrednou poviedkou je, prirodzene, Svedok obžaloby.
It's always interesting to me to compare a film with the book.
I'm not one of those who supports the book over the film types.
Although I understand the necessity to combine characters, cut scenes, etcetera, all in order to advance the story in a film.
The story captured the the twisted relationship between Leonard and Romaine Vole even better than the film.I won't explain what I mean by that for those who've neither read or seen the story, but those who know one or the other will understand.
A cracking good story for those who love mysteries with thrills.
I recently read an Agatha Christie novel and was underwhelmed.
But I recently saw "Witness for the Prosecution" performed as a stage play in London (which was excellent) and decided to re-read the story.
I dug out the book I'd had since I was 13 (!) and found that "Witness" is only about 10 pages long (although Agatha Christie later adapted it into a two-hour play).
So I re-read the entire book of short stories and enjoyed it immensely – perfect for reading in little chunks when one wakes at 3am with jet lag.
Era proprio il libro di cui avevo bisogno per "sbloccare" il mio "blocco del lettore". Breve, scorrevole, coinvolgente, con un finale che lascia decisamente spiazzati. L'ho trovato però forse un po' troppo "semplice" (come trama) rispetto ad altri libri della Christie più intricati ed emozionanti che ho letto in passato. È comunque un libro ben fatto, quindi mi sento di consigliarlo, soprattutto per un primo approccio a questo genere.
Such a great mystery! Twists and turns in true Christie style. So glad her books remain in print. A great book to tuck into a beach bag. You will be thinking about the ending long after you finish the last page. There is a movie version of this book as well.
A man accused of murder looks to be double-crossed in this courtroom drama twists and turns all the way to the end. This was a fun play to read. The characters were good, the story concise and the twists and turns executed in the way for which Agatha Christie was famed. Highly recommend.
SUCH A DISAPPOINTING ENDING!It has become a joke...it held so much promise and in a few short lines, the whole thing flops. Suspenseful and tricky, yet the ending is just...miserable.
4 stars for the title story, everything else is hit or miss
not my favorite agatha christie.
Best twist ever. Totally caught me off-guard. I was definitely surprised. Amazing.
As with most books of short stories, some I liked better than others. Overall a fun read.
Wonderful short-story by the dame! Must-read for all AC fans! :)
Lots of great twists in this one!["Mr Eastwood's Adventure" is not included in this collection.]"Philomel Cottage" is from The Listerdale Mystery collection, which I think was published only in the UK.
Definitely an interesting take on the subject, and it feels a bit more like some of her earlier stories."SOS": Maybe I'm just lacking some bit of knowledge of English inheritance law, but I found this story extremely confusing and couldn't make any sense of it."Accident": Also from The Listerdale Mystery, this makes a nice companion piece to "Philomel Cottage." Great twist ending and subtle misdirection.["Sing a Song of Sixpence" is not included in this collection.]"The Second Gong" is a Poirot short story.
Táto útla knižočka v sebe obsahuje až 11 príbehov.
Môžete ich čítať naraz, no môžete si ich dávkovať postupne.
Ako ja.
Každý deň iný príbeh, každý deň nová Agata.
Veď uznajte sami, kedy máte príležitosť stráviť jedenásť dní v spoločnosti kráľovej detektívok?V obsahu sa spomína, že v poviedkach nechýba ani slávny belgický vyšetrovateľ Poirot.
A ako som čítala jednu poviedku za druhou, stále som čakala, kedy na mňa "vyskočí".
V každom prípade, na príťažlivosti a pútavosti príbehov jeho absencia vôbec nemala vplyv.
Naopak, každý príbeh mal svojich hrdinov a že boli rozmanití, o tom nemôže byť vôbec pochýb!Zvyšok recenzie nájdete tu: http://kokina1.blogspot.sk/2017/12/sv...
An attorney believes in his client's innocence. The young man has been charged with murdering an old woman--wealthy, of course--who befriended her. But the man's "wife", rather than verifying her husband's alibi, tells both the attorney and then the court that the man is guilty, he came home that evening with blood on him, and he even boasted about the murder to her. What's the truth? The key may lie in some love letters that the attorney is able to acquire. An interesting read with the typical Christie twist.
