https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/56030.The_Ebony_Tower
I decided to choose 6 (for the beginning) of the ones waiting on my shelves for a long time or that I do not know if I would like, read 50 pages and decide if I want to continue with them or send them away.
Even then, I wasn't a big fan of short stories so I postponed my immersion in this collection.
I read one of the novellas which was exactly 50 pages long but it did not impress me enough to make me continue with the other titles.
Fowles has a beautiful hand with the prose; his characterization is deep and nuanced but unfortunately the characters themselves are quite uninteresting, so rather sadly it will be all those pretty sentences strung together that I will mainly remember."The Ebony Tower" - 2 stars.
the ebony tower of the title is an idea, and a malleable one at that: to the older gent, it is a terrible place where lives art that is all thinking and not feeling; to the younger, it is the dark gulf that lies between what he should do (stay true to his loving, talented wife) and what he wants to do (fuck that young art student living with the older gent).
my ebony tower is a place where I'd like to send both characters."Eliduc" - 1 star.
Kitaba ismini veren ‘Abanoz Kule’ isimli kısa romanı okurken yine Fowles’ın dehasına hayran kaldığımı söylemek istiyorum.
Fowles, okurken en çok zevk aldığım yazarların başında gelir ve her cümlesinin yoğun bir entelektüel birikimin yansıması olduğunu fark etmenin hazzını, bir okur olarak zevkle duyumsarım .
Aynı zamanda “Büyücü” ile bilinçli bir benzerlik (hatta ön izleme) taşıdığı da fark edilirken; bu kez konunun tamamen sanat üzerinden işlenmesi, örgünün bendeki etkisini kat be kat arttırdı.İkinci öykü ‘Eliduc’, 12.yy yazarlarından Maria de France’ın yazdığı, Fowles’ın çevirip esere dahil ettiği bir parça.
Salingervari bir anlatıma sahip olan öykü aynı zamanda şiddetli bir Rainer Werner Fassbinder filmi havasına sahip.
Tres eran las obras que de él llevaba leídas y las tres no pueden ser más diferentes: desde su thriller psicológico “El coleccionista”, pasando por el victorianismo postmoderno de “La mujer del teniente francés” hasta su incalificable y genial “El mago”, todas ellas reflejan la gran versatilidad del autor, su erudición sin grandilocuencia, su genio; todas ellas combinan sabiamente la profundidad y la agudeza con un estilo claro y elegante y todas ellas reflejan el gusto del autor por el misterio, el desconcierto y la ambigüedad.
(Nowhere on my copy of the book is this indicated.) The novella, The Ebony Tower, is about a dirty old man, an expat British artist living in France, his two young concubines, named the Mouse and the Freak, and David, the artist/writer who drops into their lives briefly to interview the old man for a book.
abstract art running through the novella (the dirty old man, Breasley, is a well known realist painter who despises abstraction) that feels impossibly silly and dated.
The Eliduc story is referenced briefly in The Ebony Tower, too, with the Mouse and the Freak standing in for the two lady loves.
Ο Τζων Φόουλς,μετά και τον Εβένινο πύργο, είναι ο συγγραφέας που μου ταιριάζει πολύ! Δεν θυμάμαι πόσες φορές έχω διαβάσει τον ''Μάγο'' και άλλες πόσες θα τον ξαναδιαβάσω! πόσο αξέχαστος ο Συλλέκτης και πόσο αγάπησα την Ερωμένη του Γάλλου Υποπλοίαρχου ! Ένας μεγάλος συγγραφέας που αξίζει να διαβαστεί από όλους!
Ο Τζων Φόουλς,μετά και τον Εβένινο πύργο, είναι ο συγγραφέας που μου ταιριάζει πολύ! Δεν θυμάμαι πόσες φορές έχω διαβάσει τον ''Μάγο'' και άλλες πόσες θα τον ξαναδιαβάσω! πόσο αξέχαστος ο ΄΄Συλλέκτης΄΄ και πόσο αγάπησα την ΄΄Ερωμένη του Γάλλου Υποπλοίαρχου΄΄ ! Ένας μεγάλος συγγραφέας που αξίζει να διαβαστεί από όλους!
Şu ana kadar okuduğum fowles kitapları içinde en farklı olanı diyebilirim. İnsanın bilinçaltını yoklayan, yaptığı sembolik göndermelerle kararlarımızın altında yatan ferçeklerle yüzleşmemizi sağlayan bir yanı var.
Fowles speaks of the nature of words, of art.
Of how some of us struggle as much as we can to make sure that this form of art survives.
A triumph of the visual, of television.
So true, and had me wondering whether this isn't the reason why so many young people don't read anymore, given the easy, and [more] entertaining television that within an hour or two makes you think like you've experienced the most amazing story...yet easily, and soon forgotten..., jumping on to the next.
Each of the other stories have a lot of human insight to offer.
One of the things that's so fantastic about Fowles is how ahead of his time he was in terms of his handling of women's POVs, and the male POV toward women.
Even when he delivers a bombshell, as in the narrator POV saying something like "she invited regiments and rape." Then gradually the whole story redeems itself pages later.
I think you have to have had a damn good education to appreciate him, maybe even gone to one of the good prep schools, I'm sorry to say.
In the case of the stories/novellas in this collection, there's a very old-fashioned approach.
In a 1971 interview about his brilliant first novel The Magus, John Fowles admitted that he was obsessed by “the basic idea of a secret world, whose penetration involved ordeal and whose final reward was self-knowledge.” This passage from Joseph Campbell’s groundbreaking 1949 study The Hero With a Thousand Faces could have been written with a Fowles protagonist in mind:"Once having traversed the threshold, the hero moves in a dream landscape of curiously fluid, ambiguous forms, where he must survive a succession of trials.
It has produced a world literature of miraculous tests and ordeals."Fiction is a modern form of mythology, a remnant of a primordially ingrained storytelling instinct predating science and psychology.
short storiesspring 2013nutty nuutpub 1974artebook Original cover: Pisanello, fragment of fresco in Ducal palace, MantuaThe Ebony TowerEliducPoor KokoThe EnigmaThe CloudTBR Busting 20133* A Maggot4* The Magus4* The French Lieutenant's Woman4* The Collector3* Daniel Martin 3* The Ebony Tower
The importance of the once endless forest.
Do yourself a favor and skip the Marie de France translation. It's strange that such an amazing writer could do such a terrible job translating something. Go directly to Poor Koko, which is without a doubt the best of the collection. Then maybe re-read the French Lieutenant's Woman.
I really like some of them.***turnul de abanos e o colectie de 5 nuvele ale lui john fowles.
prima, cea care da titlul cartii, aduce pe undeva cu magicianul [un batrin izolat, doua fete].
prima parte e destul de descriptiva, semi-plictisitoare, o teoretizare a artei secolului 20 [caci batrinul cu pricina e un pictor retras].
abia in a doua parte incep sa se intimple lucruri si sa fie mai interesant.
ce-mi place e ca fiecare din cele 5 nuvele e diferita de celelalte, nu numai ca tema ci si ca tehnica narativa, ceea ce a facut ca lectura sa fie foarte interesanta.
I was actually quite disappointed in how every one of these stories ended. I found them to be initially interesting, but they all petered out at the ends...so much so that I couldn't get myself to finish reading the last one. It just seemed like a waste of my time to take the time to read it when it was a) not interesting to begin with, and b) probably just going end like every one of the other stories. The Magus is one of my all-time favorites, but The Ebony Tower in no way lives up to Fowles' other writings.
oh my god here's another story about a creepy old man and his weird triad with some sexy nymphs, john fowles has done it againHe said gently, "Balls."
The settings seem out of touch with real life, time proceeding at a slower pace, and events seemingly unlikely to have any real consequence.In The Enigma, my favourite of the stories, Fowles is knowing about the role of the author.
The same conversation points out how, in the real world, mysteries are not always resolved, thus softening for the reader the blow that this particular enigma ultimately remains unexplained - usually an unacceptable conclusion in literature.I remember putting down this book without the sense of 'Wow, that was brilliant' that I always hope to gain from each new work of fiction that I approach, but with a sense of warm, languid satisfaction, not unlike how one might feel at the end of a hot, sunny day in an unfamiliar but pleasant location.
I don't know what my issue was here, but reading this felt like a plodding chore.
The Cloud is the other worthwhile story, but even that suffers from too many ill-defined characters and muddy, vague psychologies.
Poor Koko feels in its first half like a lesser writer's story: potboiling and tension, contrasting character pairs; and its latter half features the kind of heavy philosophizing (Fowles at his worst) that absolutely halts momentum.
But it all fizzles out; I rarely felt invested in the stories he was telling.
Eğer daha önce Fowles okumadıysanız kesinlikle ve kesinlikle Büyücü ile başlamak zorundasınız.
Fazla detaydan özellikle Fowles'ın 'of resim hakkında ne çok şey biliyorum ya' diye bağıran terimlerinden ve isimlerden fenalık geldi.
Hikaye, Büyücü'nün saçmalar saçması bir versiyonu.
Okuduğum üç eserinde de başka adamlara kadınları hapsettiren Fowles'ın kısıtlı hayal gücünü etkili bir şekilde örmesine hayranım.
Türk filmlerinin oyuncularının değişip senaryonun belli değişiklerle sabit kalması gibi.Sonu beni tatmin etmese de garip bir şekilde hikayeyi beğenmediğimi söyleyemem.
Bu adam gerçek bir Büyücü.
Ama hiçbir eseri asla Büyücü kadar müthiş değil, bence.Diğer hikayeleri sırf yazarın hatrına okudum diyebilirim.
Başlarda çok rahatsız edici, hiç bitmeyecekmiş gibi gelen bir kaşınma hissi.
I had read The Collector and The French Lieutenant's Woman years ago and looked forward to reading The Ebony Tower.
I liked two stories out of the five - Poor Koko and The Enigma.
I found the others (all five are novellas more than short stories) too wordy, very sexist and difficult to get into.
I don't mind complicated stories but I really don't like it when I have to look up a lot of words.
Neither were 'too wordy'.If I had never read John Fowles before I certainly wouldn't want to read anything else by him after this book.
When I read Fowles I'm prepared to sit not only with the book but my dictionary as well.
As a pure writer, he is a master.
As a storyteller, he's spectacular.
He's completing a manuscript when he's intruded on by a thief.
Not suspecting the encounter, the robber ties up the protagonist and then proceeds to burn his manuscript.
It's Fowles' psychodynamic interpretation that is astounding and brilliant.
Why would this man care to burn what had taken the author months, years to bring to the final editorial stage?
That's the question that Fowles dwells on.
"The Ebony Tower" returns to the theme of mentorship, telling another version a meeting with a roll model.
In this case, it's a meeting of artists.
David Williams, a frustrated artist detours from his holiday with his wife to interview the cantankerous Henry Breasley who lives in seclusion with two beautiful former art students: Diana (the Mouse) and Anne (the Freak).
David spends the weekend being lectured on morality, sexuality and modern art.
He is tempted to join this hedonistic lifestyle in the wilderness but does end up returning to his wife saying that he "survived."The story captures the culture class of the fifties and the seventies, at a time when things were becoming more informal but the era of free love was waxing.
John Fowles doesn't get much respect in the States, which is pretty unfortunate. He's so good at sculpting these impressionistic, slightly sinister atmospheres. And then, rather than using them as backdrop, he plays with them, constantly forcing them to interact with human agents. It's a trick that readers of Borges and Calvino should find pretty enjoyable. The stories in The Ebony Tower, the title one above all, manages this atmosphere. And, like all the others, it's able to weave together mythologies and sign systems into a tightly woven whole.
Это была такая хорошая книга ровно до момента, когда она ему не дала. Такие изящные диалоги с легкой сумасшедшинкой от абсурдности всего происходящего. А потом все скатилось к неразделенной любви/желанию самого пошлого толка. И вообще забавно наблюдать, как герой резко глупеет, начиная определять свою успешность через секс.
Collection of five novellas from the genius that is Fowles. Stunningly brilliant, eloquent and profoundly intelligent. It is surely impossible not to learn from this man about both writing and life itself. This writer took literature towards a new frontier. Amazing.
well written but not interesting.
Prevod ove knjige bi slobodno mogao glasiti kao "Kula od jebanovine" - bez negativnih konotacija, naravno.
Finally, the girls put Breasley to bed, and Diana explains that Breasley's reference to an "ebony tower" was his attempt to denigrate contemporary artists who work with abstraction because they are afraid to be clear; then she encourages David to dismiss what Breasley has said by telling David that an ebony tower is where you dump things you are too old to appreciate.The next day Breasley is back to his usual cantankerous self.
Цікаво, що письменник через пов'язаність «Вежі» з іншими романами планував назвати свою збірку «Варіаціями», але редактор видав її під назвою першої повісті (взагалі книга включає в себе п'ять творів: власне «Вежу з чорного дерева» та новели «Елідюк», «Бідолашний Коко», «Загадка» і «Хмара»; остання, на жаль, не увійшла до цього видання).
Не можна сказати, що межа, яку проводить Фаулз між цими образами дуже чітка, але сам він сказав про неї так: «Вежа з чорного дерева – це те, що прийшло на зміну вежі з слонової кості […]; те, що невиразне, бо художник [і митець загалом] боїться бути зрозумілим».
Іноді здавалося, ніби я читаю не оригінальний текст, а аналітичний розбір повісті.Міранда Ґрей з «Колекціонера» є однією з моїх улюблених героїнь уже більше десяти років, і тому я одразу відчула схожість між нею та Мишею з «Вежі з чорного дерева».
Мабуть, уся суть повісті полягала в тому, що ми могли б познайомитися з нею ближче, якби події не завершилися так, як завершилися.Про головного героя мені немає чого сказати.
Міркування Фаулза щодо творчості багато в чому перегукуються з «Колекціонером», от лише в «Вежі з чорного дерева» їх було подано в лоб, що позбавило мене задоволення віднайти їх самостійно.
