https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/214434.Rabble_in_Arms
I have read and re-read this amazing title, along with it's prequel Arudel several times. Written 6 decades ago, it still is vibrant and alive, the characters are full of life, and become favorites. The bluff good hearted Cap Huff, old Doc Means and the rest of the cast are the types of literary heroes, "ordinary men doing extraordinary things" that inspire. I was particularly drawn to the story of Benedict Arnold, the man and the hero. While he was America's first 'traitor', his story, while Roberts perhaps over sympathizes with the man, is nevertheless fascinating.
So this book did get better in the end, especially once there was actual battle, considering the book was supposed to be about the Revolutionary war. It was really interesting though to learn more about the true story of Benedict Arnold, when all we really remember him as is as a traitor. I think I would have enjoyed this more if I didn't have to read it as a summer reading assignment.
(Quelle horreur!) Also, we find out that everyone should know a New Yorker is never going to measure up to a solid fellow from Maine.I love these character quirks because it seems very true to the insular nature of those from the colonies at the time.
Ultimately it is not the equal of my favorite Roberts' novel, Oliver Wiswell, which does much the same service in showing the great American Revolutionary and British figures "warts and all." This is a good look at why it was such a shock when Benedict Arnold turned traitor because he'd fought so well and valorously before.

This book has been praised for its historical accuracy, giving the reader a unique first person perspective into the fighting that occurred in the northern theater during the American Revolution, and thus is a great read for anyone who is interested in learning about the American Revolution.
For the person who cares not so much about historical accuracy and more about story, the book still has much to offer, featuring a cast of extremely memorable and diverse characters, many of which were real people who had actually been involved in the revolution.
One of my favorite historical writersThis was an epic historical novel with loveable heroes and villains and a different slant on Benedict arnold, an amazingly enigma of a man. I felt engrossed in the struggles of our country to become a nation
Wonderful read... captured my attention immediately, and held it throughout. I had live up in the Saratoga Springs-Albany area and was aware of this history yet never really pursued research at the time. Of course now I am looking for bio's of Benedict Arnold and the Northern campaign.
Fantastic read. Incredibly researched. Rich in detail. I enjoyed it immensely
This is a 10 Star Book.
If you had high school history classes similar to mine this book provides proof of how cursory and in some instances falsely those textbooks were in providing an appreciation for how we became the United States. I would strongly recommend this book. This is my third Roberts book and I intend to read all of them.
Benedict Arnold's name has become synonomous with the word traitor but Roberts shows us it is not that simple. And it never is with history because we are talking about real people and all the influences, passions, events and conflicts that shaped their lives. Not many have matched Kenneth Roberts mastery of historical fiction which is probably why he is still being published today.
"Rabble in Arms" felt to me like "The Last of the Mohicans," but set during the Revolutionary rather than the French and Indian War - and without Uncas, which is to say, not quite as good.
The writing, especially the first-person narration, gives the book a richly American flavor: I loved the main character's passion for his home, for his people, for his country, and his tenacity in doing what he felt was right.
One was the lack of development in both Ellen's and Nathaniel's characters; because the main character was apart from them for so long, it was difficult to form an opinion on them.
Well, I formed an opinion on Nathaniel, but it wasn't positive.
Arundel dealt with the attempt to capture Quebec city, and this sequel continues with the fighting on and around Lake Champlain leading to the eventual defeat of Burgoyne, the general who said the colonial army was a "rabble in arms." Maybe one shouldn't read two of these close together or maybe this one at almost six hundred pages is just too long, but I grew impatient with it and started skimming for the last hundred pages.
The comic characters, Cap and Doc, are colorful although they grow tiresome as the story wears on.
Rabble in Arms takes place during the American Revolution and tells the story of the American retreat from Quebec, following their trouncing by the British, all the way to the battle of Saratoga, where they trounced the British back.
Roberts did a spectacular job following every twist and turn in this story, and in my copy there was a map that enabled one to follow events spacially.
Oh -- another interesting sidebar is that the military hero of this particular book is none other than Benedict Arnold!
Second book in Kenneth Roberts' historical fiction concerning the northern campaign of the Revolutionary War and the heroic role of Benedict Arnold.
The romantic entanglement of our young hero, and the struggle to overcome the intrigue and disinformation campaign of the villains, is formulaic (and to the extent it feels like a repeat of Arundel, almost tedious).
What makes these books so interesting and rewarding is the historical detail.
But Roberts gives a convincing and absorbing account of the fine details of what is was like to live, struggle and fight in the colonial army during these trying times.
Yes, he was a brilliant General.
Yes, he was under-appreciated and frequently hosed over by Congress and other Generals.
there are an awful lot of pages dedicated to extolling his virtues and browbeating Congress/Other Generals to the extent that it does take away a bit from what is a really good story.
Steven Nason takes a bit of a back seat in this one with the Merrill brothers Peter & Nathaniel moving to the forefront to deal with Ms. Marie de Sabrevois (Nason's ex-paramour from Arundel) and the NY campaigns & ultimate defeat of Burgoyne.
It took me a long time to read this book.
Roberts describes events in great detail, primarily through conversation between his colorful characters and through first-person narration, to the point that one can envision the action and know the characters well.
Roberts draws one in to want to understand everything that is happening and to want not to miss a detail.
On a trip back home from Vermont to upstate New York, I stopped in Skenesboro (Whitehall, NY) for lunch at a place that overlooks where much of the naval action took place.
But the historical markers are there attesting to the what happened.
This is a stirring, well-researched account of the Saratoga campaign, told mainly by fictional characters, some of whom return from Roberts's earlier novel Arundel.
As in Arundel, Benedict Arnold is a prominent character.
If the book has any flaw, it's the way Roberts bends over backwards to defend Arnold, who changed sides soon after the events described in this book.
The effort to rehabilitate Arnold's reputation culminates in a long speech by the main character in the final pages.
There's nothing inaccurate here, as far as I know, but the indignant tone about the Continental Congress's treatment of Arnold pervades the entire book and becomes a distraction.
This is a historical fiction book that takes place during the revolutionary war and is right in the middle of it.
The book is not all war though (or I wouldn't have read it) - there are elements of romance and intrigue, etc etc.
It was riveting (most of the time) and hard to put down at times.
Other times, however, I had a hard time keeping interest.
I always got my interest back but there is a little too much actual war in the book for me thus the 4 stars instead of 5.
I still highly recommend this book!
I would say 3 1/2 stars for this book.it was very thorough. I hear that it was well researched and very accurate. It was extremely descriptive and but a little lacking in the excitement department. It would be a good read for young adults or for any school assignment because there was very little profanity and no sex. It was extremely interesting to read about what the people who fought this war went through and what they had to put up with. I would highly recommend this book is first book to read about the Revolutionary war.
Terrific book, as expected, though, somewhat surprisingly, I think I liked van Wyck's The Young Titan better even though Roberts is the better-known author. There was one fabulous line at the end, though. Roberts was a native and long-time resident of Kennebunk and Kennebunkport, Maine, where I now reside. The narrator in this book, toward the end, says "in ... Maine ... folk content themselves with looking bleak when deeply moved." I nearly died laughing because almost all stereotypes such as this one are based at least partly on reality. And who would know better than a Maine native.
Picks up the story from Arundel and follows those Mainers who fight alongside Benedict Arnold during the Revolutionary War as they try to defend Ticonderoga. Interesting comparison to today's war. Congress has its head up its ass then, too, failing to support our troops with sufficient arms and supplies, trashing generals like Arnold who knew what they were doing, and promoting sycophants and dilettantes who didn't. Arnold may have sold out to the British out of shear frustration with the stupidity of our politicians.
One of the only books I have ever read twice. I would recommend reading Arundel first though as it is the prequel to Rabble in Arms. I read them in opposite order. Kenneth Roberts is by far my all time favorite author and Cap Huff who shows up in several of his books is my favorite fictional character. This summer I dragged my wife and kids to his former home in Kennebunkport, Maine on our way to Acadia National Park.
Even better than the book before it. Thus far it is Roberts at his best. The book shined when Benedict Arnold is present. Cap Huff and Doc Means will hold your attention. Like most of his other work this lead is fairly bland and only made interesting by interaction with the more interesting supporting cast.Those wanting an enriched experience should read With Musket and Tomahawk by Lougsz first. One also needs to read Arundel first
I've read it and I'm reading it...so I must rate it worthwhile! Yes, narrator Peter canbe annoying and Benedict ("blessed," don't you know) Arnold is a Colonial Super-hero, but Doc Means and Cap Huff provide comic relief (if not fresh air) with their asafoetida and rum-aroma, respectively.
A story from the American Revolution which takes a very positive attitude toward Benedict Arnold as an brilliant but abused general. Whatever its bias, it is a compelling romance and history lesson centered on the Battle of Lake Champlain (Battle of Valcour Island). The battle is real and pivotal in the war but little known. One of the sunken gunboats can be seen in the Smithsonian.
You know, this book started out OK and it may get better, but I'm 300 pages into a 900 page book and it just is going nowhere. I'm sure it goes somewhere, but I'd rather not read a book about the Revolution that takes as long as the Revolution.
Roberts was one of those adult authors I read from mom's library. Liked his stories and enjoyed his interpretations of history thru fictional characters. Still read him sometimes for the pleasure of old friends.
Didn't finish. Tried to read it too soon after Northwest Passage. But the chapter about General Benedict Arnold I found very interesting. I am related to his family by adoption. Gives a good description of his position.
Just starting this book. Am enjoying it so far two Americans in Britain at the start of the Revolution encounter an American/French woman and her Canadian Uncle. The protagonists have found a berth on board a French frigate returning to the States...
