https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76969.The_Secret_of_the_Caves
The copy that I own and read was the original text published in 1929.
I must admit that I have read few Hardy Boys books, although I own them all.
But when Frank fell into a deep crevice in the cave, the boys ran to get the rope.
Also, their provisions are stolen, leaving them with a loaf of bread and a can of sardines (interesting to bring on a camping trip).
I think that I will read the updated text of this title and see if the story improves.
Another classic Hardy's adventure. I think that the first 6 are the really essential ones. This 7th one had some of the same tropes as the others and was annoying advertising Tome 6 over and over again ad nauseum every few pages. That being said, it was still exciting and watching Frank and Joe work together is always fun. One technical point, we never really found out of Chet and Biff caught any fish while Frank and Joe were tussling with the bad guys did we? Nor whether the prison escapee was put away for good...
When there we no new Nancy Drew books in the library, I often chose one of the Hardy Boys mysteries. Lots of fun and adventure; highly recommended for pre-teens and young adults.
This writing is better than I have ever seen, a fulfilling surprise.
The best surprise is that we reference the previous mystery case at length!I wonder if it is a coincidence, since a culprit appears from the last novel, or if these original stories really do contain much more descriptive writing and flow.
I seldom see the originals without a politically unacceptable chunk removed by Harriet Stratemeyer Adams, the founder's daughter.
I chose three stars because there was no anthropological wonder or trek meriting a title “The Secret Of The Caves”.
The Hardys are dealing with two cases.
While their father works on sabotage at a local security station, Frank and Joe head to a college to try to find a missing professor.
What exactly will they find there?This was actually the first Hardy Boys books I picked up many years ago, and it was fun to revisit.
I didn’t remember much about the mystery, so it kept me guessing until the end.
I did find the ending very rushed and the characters flat, but I still had fun revisiting them.Read my full review at Carstairs Considers.

A Quickie ReviewIf you've followed the series up to this point--or even if you haven't--you know what to expect from this series, and that's just what you'll get. More mystery, more suspense, more old-school fun; what's not to like?Content Concerns:Sex: None. 5/5Nudity: None. 5/5Language: None. 5/5Violence: Some "PG"-level action. 4/5Drugs: None.Frightening/Intense Sequences: Some "PG"-level peril. 4/5Score: 4/5
Biff, their two-fisted fighting buddy also gets his ass handed to him in the parking lot, again knocked unconscious (just a tad) shortly before the previously mentioned bomb goes boom.I'm reminded of the Far Side cartoon with the bear holding up two skulls, making them talk like puppets for the enjoyment of her cubs: "Say, Bob, think there are any bears in this cave?" "I don't know, Dave, let's take a look."The Hardy boys are, naturally, triumphant, subverting the saboteurs through a cunning plan of running into and then out of a cave, then sealing the entrance, leaving the authorities to round them up on the other side (or possibly to cut off their air supply.
This one seemed a little off-the author seemed to be phoning it in in parts. Still an enjoyable romp through the small towns on the Atlantic with the Hardy Boys and their group of friends as they piece together the common thread between a new radar station, a hermit, a french restaurant and an antique spinning wheel!
3-3.5 stars. It was exciting and I enjoyed listening to it with my siblings, but it's not exactly my favorite type of book.
I liked the setting of this one for sure, although the ending is what left me rather empty as a reader. It was abrupt and too short, and we barely got to speak to the one person we needed to the most...Mr. Todd! I disliked the lack of dialogue between the Hardys and the criminals as well.
Entry 1-The Hardys and Chet ar the protagonists and main characters. Commander Wilson, the people working at Palias Paris, and the foreign spy ring are antagonists.Entry 2-The theme is people are not as they may seem to be. The point is third-person. The setting is mainly at the Cobblewave Coves in Rockaway.Entry 3-When Morgan Todd goes on the case. It leads the to Rockaway and the Palias Paris. They uncover the plot of a anti-American country infilrating the U.S> from the inside using a submarine.
4.5 starsMy favorite Hardy Boy book yet!
Cute mystery, and I can see why the Hardy boys were so popular. I loved the old slang.It may have been a little too cute, but I pretty much figured that would be the case.
in this book frank and joe salve there case and there dad's.
I read the first six Hardy Boys volumes in the new editions, and none of them used certain vocabulary that I found in this book, which is No. 6 in the series.And now, on to my spoiler-free review ...I think I gave 4 stars to each of the previous six books in the Hardy Boys series, but I’m giving this one only 3—not because of the larger number of pages or old-timey vernacular, but because there isn’t as much intrigue in this one, and because the latter half of the story kinda drags.As the title suggests, this story centers on a certain group of caves, and there are some “classically suspenseful Hardy Boys scenes” involving said caves, but the story takes a turn away from the typical “pounding the pavement investigating” of prior Hardy Boys adventures.
But there pal Chet Morton with his new metal detector and buddy biff Hooper turn up a clue that sends the young detectives on an exciting search in another directon"this book is another in the hardy boys series of books and it starts out with the boys meeting a person named Mary comes and tells them of her missing brother and they go to find him.
it leads them to the caves where they meet a hermit and after many events and a few strange occurrence they they figure out the secret of the cavesi like these books and i think they where written well and i think this one s really good and i would recommend it to people who like okay mystery and a interesting story should read this book
A professor is missing from a local college and the Hardy brothers have to find.
Meanwhile their dad is trying to find foreign spies sabotaging a U.S Army radar facility.
I bet the two are related!The Hardy heads escape unscathed.
He gets a twofer in this book.
Poor Chet gets in on the action when his metal detector is booby trapped and blows up in the car.
Alas this veritable bloodbath visited upon the Hardy chums does not count toward the count.
We are only counting Frank and Joe.The KO count as it stands up to and including book 7:Book: 0Series: 4
I read the original 1929 edition; the story may have been changed later.After solving The Shore Road Mystery, the Hardy boys and their friends are at loose ends — but that won't last for long!
While Fenton Hardy undertakes his search, the boys, along with Chet and Biff, decide to go down the coast to explore some caves there.
In the process they have a number of adventures, including multiple rescues from near-death.
Very exciting, but this books seems to be more of an adventure, rather than a straight mystery.
This wasn't my favourite mystery of the Hardy Boys.
I felt at the beginning that the story was forced in a bit too many directions.
(view spoiler)[despite later all being connected.
(hide spoiler)] Also for some reason since the 2nd book of this series (the book I happened to listen to just before this one), Chet's voice that the narrator put on was dreadful!
It was pitchy as if he was just going through puberty though I thought age-wise he would have been done that by now.
I had a hard time listening to his dialogue and was glad when any other character began speaking.
Book Recommendation Paragraph Have you ever been in a cave before? Well, the Hardy Boys haven't! When they go to the Honeycomb Caves, they found themselves a mystery! In The Secret Of The Caves, Franklin W. Dixon a realistic book filled with suspense and adventure. The Hardy Boys Set out to solve a mystery and end up finding an even bigger one! Overall, I recommend this book to all mystery and suspense.
The Hardy Boys and Nancy Drew are the first series that I remember reading. I was still in elementary school, but I remember thinking I was reading more grown up books because these were long (more than 20 pages, lol) and there was more than one book you could read with the same main characters! The innocence of these mysteries and recalling my own innocence just makes me happy. All parents should give their kids Hardy Boys and Nancy Drew when they're young - only good things can come of it.
Frank and Joe Hardy are at it again! Friends Chet and Biff want to go camping at some caves and test out Chet's new metal detector, but the guys get called into a couple of cases their dad is working on. The cases as well as the camping trip all seem to have something in common though! Another fun adventure for the Hardy Boys!
A college fraternity tries hazing the Hardys, a shifty leftist professor may know something about a vanished colleague, and we are off to Rockaway and the mysterious caves! Some Frenchies in a fake antique store and restaurant, a crazy British mariner, and possibly a Russian sub! Another great adventure for boys of all ages!
Another wonderful read. Frank, Joe and friends are on the case again searching for a professor that comes up missing. This leads them to the Honeycomb Caves and lots of exciting adventure. An amazing series that I hope people do not forget about. I highly recommend the books. They are not only an exciting read but great for everyone.
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
This one was tougher to follow than the previous six. Too many characters, plots, and settings. The author did do a nice job tying it all together over the last 5-6 pages, however. Either way, the boys love the novels.
Actually my first Hardy boys book.I loved Nancy Drew when I was 0-12, never read Hardy book before. Yea its bad. Soo incredibly boring, thin mystery. I suppose I might have enjoyed it more 20 years ago, but not now.
Reread Hardy Boys sejak dua bulan kemaren.
Another adventure for Frank and Joe and their friends, this time including espionage and a sabotage plot by villains from an unspecified "unfriendly" country.
