https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71292.Asterix_the_Gaul
One of them, for example, the way that the French are always going : “Nos ancêtres les Gaulois!” [Our ancestors the Gauls!]There is constant play with how the Gauls’ names ended in the suffix “ix” (for example, one of their great leaders was named Vercingetorix), hence, in the Asterix comics, the druid is named Getafix,  the big guy who carries a menhir or Obelisk around is called Obelix, the village bard is called Cacofonix, (poor old Cacofonix - nobody ever appreciates his art - those barbarians!)The fishmonger who always has smelly fish, is called Unhygenix, and the little dog is called Dogmatix.
Many laughs, though I'm sure I missed quite a bit because of the Latin stuff, even though I probably have more Latin than most Americans.And maybe my grandson, when a little older, will want to read it.
Though perhaps it's just as well that he didn't fall in love with it and want more, they're quite dear in the U.S.If he'd liked it, I'd probably round up to a four.And how about my granddaughter?
UPDATE My grandson here with me tells me he DID like it, but there were some hard words in it.
He'd rather play games (board & electronic) than read right now.
Astérix le Gaulois = Asterix the Gaul (Asterix, #1), René GoscinnyAsterix the Gaul is the first volume of the Asterix comic strip series, by René Goscinny (stories) and Albert Uderzo (illustrations).
عنوانها: آستریکس قهرمان گال؛ آستریکس در سرزمین گل؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: دوم ماه می سال 2004 میلادیعنوان: ماجراهای آستریکس و ابیلیکس کتاب 01 - آستریکس قهرمان گال؛ نویسنده: رنه گوسینی؛ مترجم: مهدی شاه خلیلی؛ تهران، لک لک، 1381؛ از ماجراهای آستریکس و ابیلیکس کتاب 01؛ در 48 ص؛ مصور رنگی؛ گروه سنی ج د؛ شابک: 9646488471؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، تاریخ فرهنگ، 1383؛ شابک: ایکس - 964713567؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، کلام، 1385؛ شابک:9646143695؛ موضوع: داستانهای فکاهی مصور از نویسندگان فرانسوی قرن 20 معنوان: آستریکس در سرزمین گل؛ نویسنده: رنه گوسینی؛ مترجم: فریبرز افروزی؛ تهران، سامر، 1390؛ در 48 ص؛ گروه سنی ج د؛ شابک: 9786006444000؛ا.
The publisher responds to an inquiry by the National Anti-Doping Agency (NADA) in Germany, who was able to demonstrate years of extensive doping of the popular cartoon characters.
According to those, NADA inspectors were able to proof the use of an illegal substance, euphemistically called "Magic Potion", in all of the booklets.
In a statement issued by the agency it's said: "We fear that the glorification of the doping agent as 'magic potion' without side effects decreases the threshold for the use of performance-enhancing substances and especially younger readers are at risk".
Here's my nutshell summary of the complete Asterix and Obelix bibliography.Asterix the Gaul – introducing A&O in their milieu, facing Caesar for the first timeAsterix the Golden Sickle – A&O go to Lutetia (Paris) to buy Druid Getafix a new sickle (takes on protection rackets)Asterix the Goths – endless early Germanic intratribal warfare explained when the Goths take Getafix hostage across the RhineAsterix the Gladiator – A&O go to Rome to free captured bard Cacofonix; a terrific spoof of Spartacus, among other thingsAsterix the Banquet – A&O do the first Tour de France to win a culinary/military bet against the RomansAsterix Cleopatra – A&O in Alexandria when an Egyptian architect enlists Getafix’s help proving to the Romans that Egyptian culture is still all thatAsterix the Big Fight – the Romans have a Gaulish chieftain-collaborator challenge Chief Vitalstatistix to a winner-takes-all bare-knuckle brawl… and Getafix is out of magic potion!
The translations of the original French volumes are done with love and care to make them highly enjoyable.The plots of most of the books in the series revolve around the adventures of Asterix and his fellow villagers – who reside in an unnamed small coastal village in Armorica – against the invading Roman Legionaries; and their village is the last bastion standing in the entire region of Gaul against the mighty Roman Invaders under Julius Caesar.
آستریکس یه نوستالژیههمیشه عاشق طریقه ی نقاشی کاراکترها و رنگ های زنده تصاویرش بودمخود کاراکترها و طنز داستان هم جالب بودخوب بود در کل
To this day, boys and girls in Europe are still reading and enjoying these comics as well as the adaptated movies which are great - those I want to re-watch as well, but guess what, I have them on Beta Max tapes and no player!Asterix and his friends live in a small village in the Roman occupied Gaul around 50 BC.
As the Romans are trying to conquer this last village, they realize something isn’t right about these Gauls that retaliate them albeit being outnumbered.
Who doesn’t want to have super powers and play Asterix in the back yard!
Everyone should read this beginning book of a brilliant series!
There are only a very few characters in this book, and the village crowd have not yet appeared.
We only meet Asterix, Obelix, Vitalstatistix, Cacofanix and Getafix.
But we get to meet the Romans and Julius Caesar himself.
I am always left dazed by the brilliance of the puns in this series, and this first effort was no different.
The English translation also complements the original French so effortlessly that it's a completely different level of genius.
Plan to read all the books in order again, this time in English.
Oh man. I grew up reading these. Facts gleaned from Asterix still probably constitute the majority of my admittedly scant knowledge of European geography and history. Vitalstatistix! Cacophonix! Whoever did the translations was a genius.
Of course I've read all of these as a kids, in Dutch.
I even read a couple in Latin whilst in high school (yes, the adventures of Asterix are available in Latin, just like several other comic books.
You can even read Harry Potter in Latin...)I must say, I had a bit of difficulty adjusting to the English names.
After 25+ years of Abraracourcix, Assurancetourix and Panoramix, it's a bit strange seeing them being named Vitalstatistix, Cacofonix and Getafix...
(I know it's because the word plays don't work the same in English, but still.
It's weird.)Storywise, this is just really entertaining.
Asterix was where I first started reading comics.
My dad had them, and they seemed cool...I remember it was so long ago that they put out a new one with the Original Goscinny and Uderzo, and it was a big treat, a Father's Day present for him.This is where it all starts.
The art improves from here, and our heroes look a bit different before they evolve...The puns, the play on words, the names, slapstick violence, history, this series has it all.
You grew up with Tin Tin or Asterix.
Excelente primer tomo para presentar a Asterix y su mundo, favoreciendo a los galos y delirando bastante a los romanos. Hay buen contexto histórico, excelente dibujo, muy buen coloreado, altas dosis de humor. Destaco la edición de Zorzal con una nueva traducción muy acertada en modismos.
Asterix the Gaul This is the first volume of the comic stripes Asterix.
It is quite impressive despite being the early chapter.
The plot is centered on the indomitable Gauls as they withstand the Romans (Julius Ceasar) in 50 B.C.The Gaulish people are invincible because of a potion brewed by their druid  'Getafix' , which makes them super strong for some period and bears a name with "ix" suffix.
I absolutely loved  Asterix , he is smart, witty, and fearless.Getafix's witty remarks were delights.
The whole chapter is filled puns and I couldn't stop laughing the whole time.
I also enjoyed the side comments given in the comics.Can't wait to get my hands on the next volume.
The first Asterix album14 April 2012 Now that I have the complete Tintin collection I decided that I would get my hands on the other comic book series that I liked as a child, which surprise, surprise, was Asterix. I am sure many of you already know the premise behind Asterix, but since this is the first of the albums I thought that I might run through it anyway. The story is set in 50BC after Julius Ceaser has conquered Gaul, or almost. There is one little village on the coast of Gaul that just
There is one little village on the coast of Gaul that just does not seem to be able to submit, so the Romans built four camps around the village and attempt to look for a way to bring them under the authority of Rome.
Most of the comics, when dealing with the little village in Gaul, will only have one of the camps.
Of course, upon learning of the potion, Crismus Bonus decides that to have this power would give him much more influence back in Rome, so decides to go his own way to depose Ceaser and set himself up as dictator.
In fact, you can tell that Uderzo developed his drawing technique throughout the story by comparing the first couple of pages with the last one - characters like Asterix, Getafix and Julius Caesar all look drastically different towards the end, and more like their usual selves that we've come to know.While these books have never been known for very intricate plots, and instead focused more on their humor and cultural satire, this one is probably one of the weakest in terms of story.
It revolves around the Romans trying to figure out the secret of the Gauls' great strength, kidnapping the druid Getafix to acquire it for themselves.
যদিও বাংলা অনুবাদে (হারডকপি) পড়েছি ২৪ বছর হয়ে গেল, ইংরেজী অনুবাদ কয়েকবার পড়েছি সফট কপিতে, তারপরেও মাতর কয়েকদিন আগে জীবনের পরথমবারের মতো অযাসটেরিকস দয গল ইংরেজী অনুবাদ হারডকপিতে পড়ার সময় আর সুযোগ হলো। সফটকপিতে কমিকস পড়লে আরট ওয়ারকের সুকষম ডিটেইলগুলো যে মিস হয়ে যায়, সেটা আরো একবার হাড়ে হাড়ে টের পেলাম। অযাসটেরিকস সিরিজের পরথম বই - সে হিসাবে অযালবারট উদেরযোর আঁকার মানও পরাথমিক পরযায়ে, অযাসটেরিকস আর ওবেলিকসের চেহারা অনেকটাই নিষপরাণ, চরিতরগুলোর ফেসিয়াল একসপরেশন বলতে পরায় কিছুই নাই, অযাসটেরিকসের মুখ বে
যদিও বাংলা অনুবাদে (হার্ডকপি) পড়েছি ২৪ বছর হয়ে গেল, ইংরেজী অনুবাদ কয়েকবার পড়েছি সফট কপিতে, তারপরেও ম
Was soll ich Euch also erzählen, was Ihr nicht eh schon wisst?Auch wenn die Zeichnungen in den ersten paar Seiten noch etwas ungelenk wirken, ist der Charakter der Figuren schon voll ausgearbeitet - vom ersten Band der Reihe an ist Astérix einfach spaßig, mit viel feinem Wortwitz, ein typischer Goscinny halt.Vielleicht ist der Status als typische Kinderlektüre aber auch dem Werk leicht abträglich, denn so werden viele Erwachsene davon abgehalten, diese tollen Comics in fortgeschrittenem Alter nochmal zu lesen, und so deren andere, feinere Seite zu entdecken.
Und wenn Ihr sie nicht kennt - das ist eine echte Bildungslücke, die es schnellstmöglich zu schließen gilt!
Reading a 3-in-1 edition, but writing a mini-review for the first volume. I think it was this one I read Latin version in elementary school. I remember liking it then, but of course I didn't really get into the comic because it was in Latin and not English. I should state the comics themselves were originally in French. I liked the fist album in English. I thought it was funny. You can tell this is a early story though. I will defiantly be reading all the Asterix.
Brilliant! This very first volume of Asterix is so very funny, and it is like a taste of what is coming with this series: lots of humour, cunning characters and a crude depiction of some of the best and worst psychological characteristics of humanity!Definitely worth reading this series!Maria Carmo,Lisbon, 6 April 2015.
Vuonna 1961 ranskaksi ilmestynyt "Asterix gallialainen" oli ihan ensimmäinen Asterix-albumi. Sarjakuvan kaikki peruspiirteet ovat jo kohdillaan, mitä nyt henkilöhahmojen ulkomuoto hakee vielä paikkaansa; esimerkiksi Obelix on tainnut lihoa vähäsen vuosien varrella...
Mare bucurie!
Πολλοί πειραματισμοί αφού έβγαινε σελίδα-σελίδα στα πρώτα τεύχη του Pilote και οι αλλαγές με την κάθε σελίδα να σχεδιάζεται για μια εβδομάδα είναι εμφανείς.
Αλλιώς απεικονίζεται ο Αστερίξ στην πρώτη σελίδα αλλιώς στην 15η, ο Οβελίξ στην αρχή είναι εύσωμος παρά χοντρός και αυτό αλλάζει στη συνέχεια, ο Πανοραμίξ το ίδιο, ο Ιντεφίξ δεν έχει δημιουργηθεί ακόμα αν και βλέπουμε ένα σκυλί που του μοιάζει κ.α.
Δεν είναι κακό, ενώ κάποιος πρέπει να είναι πιο ελαστικός με το άλμπουμ παρόλο το άνευρο χιούμορ του και την τετριμμένη ιστορία γιατί θέτει τις βάσεις για την επικοτέρη ίσως χιουμοριστική σειρά BD που κυκλοφόρησε ποτέ.
Οσα χρόνια και να περάσουν ο ΑΣΤΕΡΙΞ θα μας εμβολιάζει με μεγάλες δόσεις γέλιου, χαράς κι ευτυχίας.
It's been a long time coming but I finally got around to starting with the Asterix comics! Asterix the Gaul was hilarious - a classic tale of outwitting the enemy army with sheer cunning (and a little bit of magic, of course), I couldn't help but draw parallels with the grim story of Iron Man and how he escaped his own captors with the help of Ho Yinsen, the scientist to Asterix's Getafix. Except with more than a shade of humor.Looking forward to rest of the series.
Asterix the Gaul is the first book of a series that took comics to a new height.
Since I have read it after enjoying a few others in the series, it is difficult to make an unbiased review of it.
However, with the benefit of hindsight it may be said that the characters have 'arrived', but to be properly fleshed out and filled up.
We are sure though that consuming more than one boars at at time, he has made a promising start towards his personal fulfillment.
Again, with the benefit of hindsight it may be said that a good and promising start has been made.
Years ago my dad bought the entire collection of Asterix and I had read most of them. Even though I remember the plotlines and the hilarious names, rereading is just as much fun! There is never a dull moment and the situations are so excessively hilarious that I find myself shutting the book to laugh for a good couple of minutes and resuming a moment later. As far as comics go, Asterix is the best when it comes to historical and political satire. I would recommend this to pretty much anyone.
One of my favourite comic series of all time. This series really increased my love of history. Like the Tintin reread I'm doing I will also endeavour to read all the Asterix books once again. Unlike Tintin the early Asterix comics are much more accessible. There is no blatant racism. It's just a fun little adventure. The first book is just an introduction to the main characters and their abilities. I can't wait to get through the rest of the series.
You haven't met Asterix before? Shame on you. Don't you know that Asterix is so famous he becomes the French farmer facing down the Roman Mickey D's?Yes, the story is simplstic, but all the things that make Asterix great are here. The punning names, the silly plot, the smart Gauls, the boars.Great start to a great series.
عرفت شخصيتي استريكس وابليكس من الأفلام التي قام ببطولتها جيرارد ديبارديو ووقتها ورغم اعجابي بالشخصيتين إلا أن ثقل ظل الممثلين وبخاصة ديبارديو لم يجعلوني متحمس كفاية لقراءة قصصهما المصورة. الآن وبعد عودتي لقراءة تان تان قررت تجربة قراءة مغامراتهما والنتيجة مرضية للغاية فالشخصات والأحداث تؤشر لعالم من المرح والمتعة.
