https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32421.Velocity
This is indeed a novel with speed incorporated! As the title Velocity hints the rhythm of the narrative. A clear fast tempo.You are barely getting comfy in your seat when you realize that you need to fasten your seatbelt right away!The premise is simple but performed in a brilliant and very entertaining way.I liked real quick the protagonist and I fear even quicker from the antagonist. Nothing is left to the chance. You will witness a carefull crafted masterful plan by the villain.I enjoyed in
A clear fast tempo.You are barely getting comfy in your seat when you realize that you need to fasten your seatbelt right away!The premise is simple but performed in a brilliant and very entertaining way.I liked real quick the protagonist and I fear even quicker from the antagonist.
I think that the protagonist reacts in a very believable way.Moreover, the story is totally set in a real world ambiance, you won't met any paranormal force.The evil here is very real and truly scary with a flesh-and-blood psychopathic criminal.Also, since it's a very entertaining story and real page-turner, you will read it real quick.Highly recommended.
it's like he was contradicting himself when he gave the book a title of "Velocity" when in reality it was slow as shit.
I didn't seem to hold my interest because most of the book contained nothing but jibber jabber.
I finished it just for the sake of it, and because I really hate to DNF a book.
I'm sure that I didn't pick up the wrong Koontz novel based on the synopsis, because that shit was good and exciting.
Once again, I'm still not giving up on Koontz, because his Odd Thomas novels were quite entertaining anyway(at least the ones I've currently read).
ابق منخفضاً، ابق هادئاً، دع الأمور بسيطة، لا تتوقع الكثير، استمتع بما لديك، تحرك قدماً..هل أنت جاهز للسرعة؟ رواية عن غريزة البقاء..عن ذلك السبب المجهول الذي يجعل الفرد منّا متمسكاً بحياته التي طالما تمني الخلاص منها، و الذي يجعل مشرداً كسيراً لن يخسر العالم برحيله شيئاً يصاب بذعر حيواني بمجرد ما يهدد حياتيهما شئ، أي شئ..بيلي ويلز، نادل بسيط، كاتب قليل الشهرة، عاشق وفي يرعي محبوبته الراقدة في غيبوبة لسنوات متصلة، يُسّجل ما تنطق به خلال نومها و يحاول استنتاج أحلامها..هل هي آمنة سعيدة أم تعاني يا تٌري؟حياة رتيبة كبحيرة صغيرة راكدة المياة كما تري، و كعادة البشر لا بد أنه تمنّي شيئاً ما يبدد بعضاً من ذلك، و يبدو أن الأخ بيلي كان نقي السريرة ف تحققت أمنيته علي الفور..علي طريقة "SAW" المُحببة للنفس المؤمنة بإرادة الإنسان الحرة نصت الرسالة الأولي أن:((إذا لم تأخذ هذه الورقة إلى الشرطة...سأقتل إمرأة شقراء جميلة ...
Sometimes I will rap about the futility of Chicago football, usually I’m rapping in a negative manner about the clods I have to deal with in a day’s work, or sometimes movies and music, and once in a great while, I’ll actually discuss a book.
Usually it’s just one person talking about the book and how much it ruled or sucked while the other person nods with slight enthusiasm; this is because finding two people who have read the same book and can openly discuss it in this day and age is less common than finding a large chunk of platinum sticking out of the ground.
من أروع الروايات البوليسية التي قرأتها وأكثرها رعباً وتشويقاً..حقاً هذه الرواية مدهشة وخاطفة للأنفاس..الشكر الجزيل للأستاذ حسام عادل والأخت حماس على ترشيح هذه الرواية لي، ممتن لهما حقاً، وأنصح كل أصدقاء الجودريدز بقراءة الرواية ..
Billy visits his cop friend and tells him about the note.
In another scene the cops give Billy details of a classified investigation over the phone without bothering to check who's calling (caller ID is enough).Also another flaw is Koontz's limited knowledge of personal computers.
It's a deep lava vent hole that goes hundreds of feet down (it's essentially bottomless) and is conveniently located in his friend's backyard, so Billy doesn't even have to do much driving.
There are shades of a good moments in Velocity, but the whole book will evaporate from your mind quickier than a dead body goes down that damn hole.
This is the first Dean Koontz novel I have ever read.
While there was that in this novel, it was well crafted.
The protagonist, Billy Wiles, proved to be a complex character.
The identity of the villain was kept secret until close to the end.
And there were literary allusions sprinkled throughout the book, which was a refreshing surprise.
The final scene seemed a little facile, and the villain seemed a little too much like a character out of a James Bond film.
The book was suspenseful and gripping.
The title reflected not only important elements of the story, but also the pace at which I read it.
Not the best Dean Koontz I have ever read but I still enjoyed it very much. The best part is the way he develops Billy's character from the start of the book to the end. Who would have thought such an ordinary man could be capable of such extraordinary things. The ending is clever too. Just as the reader thinks it is all over.....it isn't! This is why I enjoy this author so much. He doesn't need me to be analytical or critical; all I have to do is sit back and enjoy the fun.
ইংলিশে Velocity শবদটার অরথ হচছে বেগ । তাহলে একটা থরিলার উপনযাসের নাম ভেলোসিটি হয় কিভাবে যদি না সেটাতে কোন পরকারের বেগই না থাকে । কেবল মাতরই শেষ করে উঠলাম ডিন কুনটজ এর ভেলোসিটি । নিরদবিধায় বলতে পারব আমার পড়া সবচেয়ে দরুতগতির থরিলার গুলোর মধযে নিঃসনদেহে সবচেয়ে উপরের দিকেই থাকবে এই বইটা । আকষরিক অরথেই বইটা পেজ টারনার। একবার গলপে ঢুকে গেলে শেষ না দেখে বের হতেই ইচছে করবে না । বই এর কাহিনী আবরতিত হয় আমেরিকার এক ছোট শহরের বারটেনডার বিল ওয়াইলিস কে ঘিরে । নিরঝঞঝাট মানুষ বিল । খুবই সাধারণ এক জীবন যাপন করে
ইংলিশে Velocity শব্দটার অর্থ হচ্ছে বেগ । তাহলে একটা থ্রিলার উপন্যাসের নাম ভেলোসিটি হয় কিভাবে যদি না 
Περιπέτεια που κινείται με... ταχύτητα και με ό,τι άλλο μπορεί να συνεπάγεται κάτι τέτοιο!Σε γενικές γραμμές το βιβλίο ήταν ωραίο, με τον πρωταγωνιστή να μπαίνει συνεχώς σε ζόρικα διλήμματα, από εκείνα που ο αναγνώστης φροντίζει να μην τα θέσει στον εαυτό του, διότι δεν θα έχει ούτε αυτός ξεκάθαρες απαντήσεις για το τι θα έκανε. Ενίοτε παραγίνεται ''χολυγουντιανό'', και αυτό λίγο του αφαιρεί από τη συνολική του βαθμολογία. Νομίζω όμως ότι κανένας σταθερός αναγνώστης του Κουντζ δεν θα πέσει από τα σύννεφα με αυτά τα ''ατοπήματα'' και θα συνεχίσει να απολαμβάνει το βιβλίο ''ως έχει''. Στο σύνολό του, μου άρεσε.
Koontz's Velocity is an utterly satisfying and exciting thriller. The characters are so intricate and the story detailed. I thought I had it figured out about half way through but instead Koontz through me for a loop, and a good one it was. I highly recommend Velocity.
حركة، سرعة، تأثيرهذه قواعد اللعبةمع إجادة فن الأداء والكثير من الجنون واللامنطقتخرج لنا هذه الروايةأقصد هذا السيناريو الحىّ بكل تفاصيلهأؤكد لك أنك ستفاجأ كثيرًالن أحرق الرواية بأى سرد لهاأفضّل أن تكتشف المجهول بنفسكاقرأ الرواية لن تندمربما تستفيد شيئًا وربما لالكن إن كنت من هواة أفلام الجريمة والحركةفستعجبك بالتأكيد
If you are an avid reader of thrillers, you are instantly hooked when you read the backcover of Dean Koontz's novels written between 1995 - 2010.
This is also the case of this 2005 novel called Velocity (translated into Romanian by Liviu Radu - a good translation) where the premise is very entertaining and it could have made a solid thriller if Koontz wouldn't have mixed genres and if he would have paid more attention to "small and irrevelant" details such as what is the motivation of the antagonist or how are clues being given to the protagonist.
This book was an easy read--couldn't put the book down. Very interesting, and really makes you think. What would you do, if you were given a choice like this?
Billy Wiles is a bartender in a Napa Valley lounge.He works the day shift from around 11:00 a.m. until shortly after 6:00 p.m. helping the night shift barkeep during the 4-6 rush hour.It's a nice, peaceful bar. No troublemakers. No hassles. No drama. One night Billy goes out to his Explorer and finds what appears to be a handbill underneath his windshield wiper-blade.He unfolds the neatly folded sheet of paper and finds the following: If you don't take this note to the police and get them involv
Billy Wiles is a bartender in a Napa Valley lounge.He works the day shift from around 11:00 a.m. until shortly after 6:00 p.m. helping the night shift barkeep during the 4-6 rush hour.It's a nice, peaceful bar.
If you don't take this note to the police and get them involved, I will kill a lovely blond schoolteacher somewhere in Napa County.If you do take this note to the police, I will instead kill an elderly woman active in charity work.You have six hours to decide.The choice is yours.
If you don’t take this note to the police and get them involved, I will kill a lovely blond schoolteacher.
The choice is yours.It seems like a sick joke, and Bill’s friend on the police force, Lanny Olson, thinks so too.
But less than twenty-four hours later, a young blond schoolteacher is found murdered, and it’s Bill’s fault: he didn’t convince the police to get involved.
Now he’s got another note, another deadline, another ultimatum…and two new lives hanging in the balance.Suddenly Bill’s average, seemingly innocuous life takes on the dimensions and speed of an accelerating nightmare.
Maybe only 3.5 starsThis book was a bit of a misnomer for me.
I thought the beginning was unique, intense, dripping with dark humor, and full of cliffhangers.
The shorter, more intense chapters became interspersed with longer, more introspective chapters as Billy came closer to determining the identity of the killer.
And, while I don't have issue with longer, deeper chapters helping uncover parts of the plot, they just seemed to distract from the idea of "velocity"Finally, when the book was over, I couldn't really tell it was over.
Velocity starts with death by garden gnome and gets weirder from there.The back of the book has the message: "If you don’t take this note to the police and get them involved, I will kill a lovely blond schoolteacher.
If you do take this note to the police, I will instead kill an elderly woman active in charity work.
Because of his own shady past he doesn't feel comfortable going to the police even though he wants to.For observant readers, Koontz leaves lots of clues.
.بيلي الشاب الطيب الذي يعمل بكد ..والذي لايملك في حياته إلا كتبه ..ورعاية حبيبته والتي دخلت غييبوبة بسبب تسمم غذائي ..كل شيء هاديء وجيد ومثالي ..حتى ..ذاتَ مساء بدأت الحكاية ..يخرجُ بيلي من عمله ..ليواجه كابوساً .. عندما بدأ مختلٌ بإرسال رسائل تهديد بقتل أناس لا يعرفهم ..مع موعد نهائي .." وتحدي يقول الخيار خيارك "تقتل مدرسة شقراء ثم تصل رسالة أخرى ..فيعرف بيلي أنه قاتل جاد ..... مجرد التصور انكم قد تكونون مكان بيلي كافِ لإرعابكم ..وشجاعته فقط مع نضاله من أجل من يحب .. سيخرجه من هذا الموقف ..والنهاية مفاجئة جدا ..:)وجميلة أيضا ...
This is only my second Koontz, and it was a big upgrade from my first experience with this author. Velocity is an appropriately named title for this quick read. This is one of those edge of your seat experiences. I'm usually pretty good at guessing who the villain is, but Koontz managed to keep me in suspense till almost the very end. I half guessed correctly, but I didn't see the second punch coming. Way to go Mr. Koontz!
This is the last Dean Koontz book I'll ever read
Velocity certainly interested me enough to encourage quick reading, so the skeleton of the story can't be that bad.
But I can only give it the two-star "it's okay" rating because everything about the novel, except its spine, seemed to be too thin.
I guess I mean that several things happened so quickly that Koontz forgot to make any explanatory links between them.
The novel felt very thrown together, as if maybe the author had promised to write something, but was very behind.
Perhaps to add a little depth, Koontz relies on T.S. Eliot's words throughout Velocity, but the story does only a superficial job of providing them context.
بشكل عام الروايه جيده والحبكه مثيره... توقعت منها اكثر بالذات النهاية جعلت من بطل الرواية " بيلي " بطل خارق وحتى سبب اختيار القاتل له غير مقنع تماماً ... بشكل عام روايه غموض وجريمة جيده
Липсват дълбоките психологически съждения на Стивън Кинг, а и - типичните за Кунц доста успешни комични моменти (все още помня шеги от "Тик-так" на същия автор, а я четох на 17).Не обичам да издавам фабулата на книгите за които пиша, затова ще загатна накратко - серийни убийства.
И всъщност, поне аз бях заблуден почти до края каква е точно истината (а това, казвам без излишна скромност, се случва много рядко).Определено препоръчвам книгата на всеки почитател на жанра - главната причина за сравнително ниската оценка е, че въпреки добра, книгата не блести с нищо, та вероятно след два-три месеца няма да помня за какво е ставало дума в нея.
Velocity by Dean Koontz Napa County California seems to be a quiet place were not much really happens but things change when Billy Whiles gets off work at the local bar and finds a note under his windshield stating "If you don't take this note to the police and get them involved, I will kill a lovely blond schoolteacher. If you do take this note to the police, I will instead kill an elderly woman active in charity work. You have four hours to decide. The choice is yours." Billy takes the note to
Velocity by Dean Koontz	Napa County California seems to be a quiet place were not much really happens but things change when Billy Whiles gets off work at the local bar and finds a note under his windshield stating "If you don't take this note to the police and get them involved, I will kill a lovely blond schoolteacher.
If you do take this note to the police, I will instead kill an elderly woman active in charity work.
Billy Whiles is a lonely bartender whose bride-to-be, Barbra, went into a coma four years earlier.
Billy lived a quiet life but things defiantly changed when he started getting the notes.
I did not do a review at the time thinking Koontz was not an author for me.
Recently I read Lightning by Koontz and loved it.
Therefore I’m now reading several of his books.
I’m posting this as part of a group of reviews for comparison purposes - for readers who have tastes similar to mine.I was frustrated, afraid, and felt hopeless watching Bill being threatened and manipulated by the killer.
I prefer the protagonist be able to have some control over something.My feeling: The killer is laughing as he forces a bug to run around in a maze, eventually planning to squish him.
I read a lot of Dean Koontz books in my teenage years.
His writing style is very easy to adapt to and the stories are usually fast paced and fun.
Velocity ranks as one of my favorites by Koontz.The Good: The author wastes no time in getting the story started.
The game of cat and mouse that is played between Billy and the unknown killer was a lot of fun and caused me to question what I would do in that situation.
There were several twists that kept the story surprising and fresh.
I loved this book. The character development was incredible, as in almost all Koontz novels, and Billy felt like a real person. I loved the ending and the twist, I was sitting on my couch going "Oooohhhhh!!!!!" Those are the best moments that only an amazing book can bring. Must read!!!
This was a fast, entertaining read. I thought the bad guy's motives were a little iffy, though.
I loved this book! It was very suspenseful and a PAGE TURNER!! Its go go go and hard to put down! I would definitely recommend this book! Had a strong lead character! I gave this book five stars!
