https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2242820.Quarantine_In_The_Grand_Hotel
It’s a good book, but it’s a 160-page pulp-fiction paperback novel written about 80 years ago.]Quarantine in the Grand Hotel is a murder mystery set on a fictional resort in Indonesia (or thereabouts.) However, it’s not your typical dour mystery.
Dressed in pyjamas and wearing a bright green lampshade on his head, the stranger beamed a friendly smile at her.” From that point, I had to know who the man in the pyjamas is and how he got there, and that information doesn’t come immediately or without false leads.The premise is that the resort is quarantined and a murder takes place there (actually two murders.) It’s not a creative premise.
I have read it in the original Hungarian so I don't no how well the English translation could reproduce the brilliance of this book - it would be an extremely difficult task I reckon - but even if it could reproduce about 80% of the original, it will still be worth 5 star.
Non immaginavo potesse essere così divertente un giallo, anche se qui il giallo è solo un pretesto per far divertire e muovere critiche sociali.Il mio personaggio preferito?
Indubbiamente Felix, quello che di fatto porta avanti tutta la storia con la sua goffaggine e la sua faccia di folla con mezza barba.I fatti sono molto ingarbugliati e non sarà facile trovare l'assassino in questo hotel messo in quarantena per un caso di peste bubbonica.Il testo, così come è scritto, si presterebbe benissimo a una trasposizione teatrale perché i dialoghi sono serrati, la situazioni cambiano rapidamente e le descrizioni sono ridotte al minimo.
Mi piacerebbe tanto se fosse messo in scena...
I really like this guy – he has a Wodehouse-like style about him, with his '30s comic absurdities, superb pen sketches of bit-part characters, and story-lines that I could see the makers of an Ealing comedy picking up on.
In this case we get the classic crime story of enclosed environment (the quaratine), corpses, missing people, shady characters all over, enigmatic investigators and bumbling police, a dashing accidental hero, morally questionable characters, and a top notch femme non-fatale.
Light, engaging, witty with a sharp eye for class awareness and alas one of only two available in English (it seems) – Rejtö was a noted 1930s Hungarian writer – now both read.
If this was meant as a joke, it stopped being funny very soon.The main character whom I had taken to be the accidental detective turned out to be just a guy who happened to overhear other people talking, thus solving many of the aforementioned sub-plots, while the real genius detective was but a secondary character given a limited amount of time in this book.
When the entire mystery was explained at the end, it was based on a highly elaborate and unlikely background story that took all the fun out of searching for clues thus far.Given the high score this book has gotten from other reviewers, I can only guess that Jeno Rejto is simply not my kind of author.
It's a brilliant book. The story is about a hotel, an exotic place, a crime, a robbery, a lie, a comedy. It is a love story and an adventure in the same time. I enjoyed it very much.Ez egy zseniális könyv. A történetben előfordul szálloda, egzotikus táj, gyilkosság, rablás, hazugság, komédia. Egyidőben szerelmi történet és kaland, nagyon élveztem.
This book is a hilarious whodunnit by a Hungarian author that had me laughing out loud occasionally. I would definitely read anything by this author—he’s a great writer and wove the mystery masterfully.
Entertaining in a sort of English crime caper meets French farce sort of way but just a bit too silly to be entirely successful.
A ridiculous short comic satire of 1930s detective novels, set in a great old hotel in Java that falls under quarantine when a guest is diagnosed with bubonic plague.
At the same time, the diagnosing doctor is murdered!
Meanwhile, an affable young man lurks around the hotel, darting in and out of people's wardrobes and windows, in his pajamas.The translation is less than stellar, as is the typography.
And the story is a little hard to follow--there are a lot of very lightly-drawn characters who amount to little.
Beware--the racial (and to some extent, gender) politics and language are a product of their times.
This book was originally in Hungarian and the translation I read had a few mistakes and typos, but still managed to be incredibly fun and funny. It is a very twisty murder mystery in a hotel while it is under quarantine. The characters are great, the setting is great, and the plot is great. A wonderful novel, all around.
I had come across this title whilst on a trip to Budapest, and it was definitely worth taking note of. The pace is fast, with compelling twists & plots, all amalgamated together, as the title suggests, in quarantine in the Grand Hotel. A good read!
the english translation deteriorates in the second half.
a quirky detective story. a bit heavy on the characters which makes it hard to keep track sometimes, but nonetheless good fun for a light read.
Form the arresting and surreal opening to the last page, this book had me laughing out loud and gasping at plot twists all the way through. Highly recommended for some giddy entertainment!
It is such a charming and cool old book combining infectious diseases and crime.
Nokkela ja nopealukuinen 30-luvulla kirjoitettu unkarilaisdekkari piti otteessa rennoilla käänteillään.
I haven't laughed like this for quite a while, I don't remember the last book that made me laugh. This one is really a masterpiece, I recommend it to everyone!
Легко и увлекательно. Хороший юмор. Книга постоянно заставляет улыбаться. Особо понравился голый человек в противогазе и с ручным пулеметом, встречающий в номере мелкого воришку.
