https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18081228-the-orphan-queen
Even thought it was predictable, it was still a great read. I NEED THE NEXT BOOK!4/5 stars
"Totally meant to do that." Pollock went on to become one of the most well-known artists of the 20th century.In 1796, Edward Jenner was fucking a milkmaid in the barn.
They worked hard, it took time for them to develop their skill and methodology.The point is that their accomplishments would have held so much less meaning if they had stumbled across them through no effort of their own, if their achievements were pure, dumb luck.In books, I want characters who are admirable, who succeed through sheer brilliance and plotting.
Easy as pie.Want a top-secret map?
Pretty and well fit to a fantasy story, it might have been the only thing that kept me on reading.There was nothing I actually ‘‘hated’’ but it is rare for me to ‘‘hate’’ something inside a book, unless a character, scene, relationship, world-building or any other relatively important element inside a story is frustrating or peeving enough for myself to not being able to handle it.This was just completely boring and unsurprising.
It contains familiar elements that you may recognize from other YA fantasy-lite series - Throne of Glass, Shadow and Bone and the more recent Red Queen, to name but a few.Our protagonist is Wilhelmina, the former heir to the throne of her homeland.
Then we have the heroine pretending to be someone else whilst socializing with the royal enemy - which I'm sure, if I remember correctly, happens in some form in Throne of Glass, Shadow and Bone and Red Queen.Plus, the whole infiltration of the palace seems very ill-planned.
in a world where other house symbols are dragons and unicorns (<------problems as far as the eye can see), where does a bird commonly confused with water fowl fit in?And why the hell would you name a noble line "House of the Unicorn," if it's not in a story for a five-year-old?Then there was the time Patrick did the thing I'd been waiting for him to do at a completely baffling moment: (view spoiler)[reveals his intention to be Wil's King--for the good of the kingdom, of course--by flatly stating that if she was "wise," she would marry him.
This is a book I wrote. Obviously I like it. I hope you do too.More about the cover.For every thousand adds to Goodreads, I'm sharing a teaser. 2k teaser: http://instagram.com/p/pj78MrTRLj/3k teaser: http://instagram.com/p/q2xffHTRBP/4k teaser: http://instagram.com/p/sBXeD2zRAn/5k teaser: http://instagram.com/p/tT0auHzRPB 6k teaser: http://instagram.com/p/uJyX-7zRI7/ 7k teaser: http://instagram.com/p/vPwrniTRFf/8k teaser: http://instagram.com/p/v2Z7NezRLN/ 9k teaser: http://instagram.com/p/xGFlo3TRBf/ 10k teaser: http://instagram.com/p/xvHzoVzRP-/ 11k teaser: http://instagram.com/p/yV-Zp7zRCi/ 12k teaser: http://instagram.com/p/y7kMJSTRAr/ -- new on February 10There have been a lot of questions about why THE ORPHAN QUEEN is a sample on Edelweiss. Here are your answers: http://www.jodimeadows.com/?p=2657
The web of alter identities is pretty fun.It's hard to convey the awesomeness of the plot without revealing that main spoiler, so basically...
I know I'm really into a story when I want to hear even more about everyone by the end (like really boring details no plot would ever pause to include) and that happened here for sure.
It was nice to find that again.So if you like warrior princesses, magic, torn loyalties, hidden identities, groups who band together to fight for a greater good, and all the fantasy elements like a castle & ball & prince, then definitely check this out (or reread it because it's even better the second time)!
I'M SORRY BUT ARE YOU LEGALLY ALLOWED TO END A BOOK LIKE THAT
But it had a Batman like epic-fantasy-medieval-ish character and 'scuse me but I'M IN LOVE WITH THAT IDEA.
And while it had a TON of cool stuff (aka hidden identities and evil magic and stabby things) I just wasn't impressed?
FOR ONCE!!DID I MENTION THE FREAKING AWESOME HORRIBLE CLIFFHANGER?????That puddle of feels on the floor slowly crying and shaking IS ME by the way.....okay but I do have a few negatives:• Obviously the fact that the beginning wasn't great.• Then that Wil wasn't altogether remarkable.• I TOTALLY KNEW WHO BLACK KNIFE WAS THE MOMENT HE WAS INTRODUCED.
Such a fun and captivating read!
Wilhelmina’s magic might be the key to stopping the wraith, but if the vigilante Black Knife discovers Wil’s magic, she will vanish like all the othersJodi Meadows introduces a vivid new fantasy full of intrigue, romance, dangerous magic, and one girl’s battle to reclaim her place in the world.What I Liked:Holy guacamole.
But little go as planned with the presence of wraith, Black Knife, and a danger against which even Wil cannot guard herself.I love fantasy.
So, not too much waiting.What I Did Not Like:This book loses an entire star from me because of the ending.
Guess who stayed up all night reading The Orphan Queen and now looks like a mutant zombie that feeds on coffee!  “I was Julianna,a general,and occassionally the orphaned Princess of Aecor.I was anyone I needed to be.”  Being the heir of a conquered kingdom,Wilhelmina will do anything to free her people and avenge her family.She knows how to fight,to steal,to forge,to spy and now she has to accomplish the most dangerous task of all;impersonate a duchess and gather intelligence on her enemy's wher

i really want to punch him on his face!!!and i hope that Prince Tobiah won't marry Meredith in the second book(please!!i don't want that happend)i will definetly read the second book,and i have to know the ending.i might won't sleep well tonight because of this book.and i will definetly give this book 5 stars,if i could give this book more than 5 stars i would happy to do that because 5 stars are not enough for this book.(ﾉ◕ヮ◕)ﾉ*:･ﾟ✧  (hide spoiler)]here's my review the second time I read it :6th May 2016 - 14th May 2016
I'm breathing fire and brimstone after reading the whole book.(1) The heroine and her friend's plan to reclaim their kingdom is *RUBBISH*, plain and simpleIf you think the rebels in Red Queen and The Young Elites are bad, just wait till you see what the heroine and her friends had done!Some 19 orphans (the Ospreys) banded together to try reclaiming their lost kingdom from the invading kingdom, among them the supposedly 'lost' princess.
Yet when those perfectly modern English names mentioned above show up in the book, I still feel the author *isn't even trying* when she creates this supposed fantasy world.*sighs* The setting about the destructive wraiths and magic is nice, but too bad that the rest of the book isn't so nice.
This beauty of a book, called The Orphan Queen, stole my heart really easily, despite its numerous flaws.  I won't lie, the beginning was far from impressive, because probably this book's biggest flaw was its predictability. I saw plot twists from miles away, but what saved the novel from my putting it down was actually the unraveling of said plot twists. It was entertaining and satisfying and done in a clever manner. Another aspect that had me cringing was the originality. In terms of character
Then there's Wilhelmina, a disguised orphan queen who's after taking back her conquered kingdom, and that again struck me as a deja-vu with the newest books in the ToG series, not to mention the whole dynamic between Wil and Tobiah (I'm a sucker for Dorlaena anyway).
This plotline offers a lot of excitement and I honestly can't wait to get to know more about magic in the next book.
Such as (view spoiler)[ making the wraith solid  (hide spoiler)]This book was full of common YA tropes as well.I enjoyed most of the characters, but also feel like Jodi Meadows could go deeper, expand the characters depth, I think that would make for a better series.
This series is hard to ship because even though I like Wil and Black Knife together, I don't think I'm at the level of shipping it.
They are the characters with the most depth, yet I still find it hard to connect to them.This is probably seeming like a really bad review and y'all are probably wondering why I gave it 4/5 stars.
I stayed up way way late last night, I'm talking 4 hours later than I usually do, because I couldn't go to bed without finishing this book.
Even though the story and characters and ending infiltrated my dreams.
And let me just take a second to rant about that ending.
I loved the characters here.
Wilhelmina, Melanie, the Ospreys, James, Black Knife, even Prince Tobiah and the King.
And can we just take a second to talk about Black Knife?
He was my favorite character in the book.
Time to build a time machine so I can read The Mirror King.
4 out of 10 Ревью в моем блоге/This review on my blogLiving A Thousand Lives (please use Chrome/Yandex browser or Android/IOS to see the page; otherwise, spoiler-tags I use to make my post compact may not work)Short-Soundtrack:Carnival Youth - Never Have EnoughIan Dolamore - VigilanteRaz Ohara and The Odd Orchestra – KissesGenre: high-fantasy, YAStuff: the wraith, magic, rebelsFail: predictability and uneven writingWOW: the main conceptPOV: 1st-person, femaleLove-Geometry: noneQuote-Core: “May
Magic causes the wraith - an echo of somebody's power, a twisted substance that comes and covers your city up, mummifying everything and everyone, it changes people and animals, making them bigger, vicious and merciless.
Here I knew what would happen and that it would mean nothing, 'cause we'd already seen the same situation in a one of the previous chapters.Now to the WTFs those would contain spoilers.(view spoiler)[- Chey knew from the start that Wil wasn't her friend from Liadia, so why didn't she tell anyone?
I'm sure, their scientists couldn't come up with matches that soon after magic became forbidden.- I can't understand how Wil didn't recognize Tobiah in Black Knife.
This is some of the greatest shit I’ve ever read "Who are you?""Well who are you?""You can call me *flips hair* the Black knife""But you're holding a sword...?""Well umm ya know sometimes i throw knifes, just tell me your name!" "Take off the mask and then we can discuss identities""Fine you can be Nameless girl""Okay....imma go rob people now"*Nameless girl sneaks into palace using fake identity*"Hello i am boring prince i care about nothing but mememe, bye""Ughhh grrr anger of the past, i hat
of plotting and scheming*"I, the clever prince, know who you are""Oh shit really?""Yes...you are the thief nameless girl!!""What""Muhaha you thought I didn't know.
For the black knife you have fallen in love with...is really me don't-give-a-shit-prince-boy""Nononono it cannot be!
But she didn't know he was black knife and he didn't know she was lost princess.
Really, without the whole royalty shit I would love to just read a book about Black Knife (kingdom vigilante) and Nameless girl ( strong independent woman willing to do anything for her gang).
I did not expect to like this one...
I went into it with low expectations based on friends ratings - but I actually rather enjoyed myself reading it.
but I didn't really care because I know what I like to read.
2. It is predictable.
While I could predict *who* certain people where and such..
I still enjoyed the premise regardless...
I couldn't get past that one.) I actually enjoyed the bit of chemistry between Wil and Black Knife.
All that to say- I already got book 2 and I'm gonna go read that now..
Me: I'm just gonna see and read the first few chapters to see what's the fuss is all about.*10 minutes later. I have been trudging reading books lately and I'm so happy The Orphan Queen didn't disappoint. I genuinely adore this book. I need to collect my thoughts and feelings. Mini review to come.
Review to come!
This definitely has a potential and I've heard that the sequel is better which makes me very happy!I liked this story and the characters. Yes, the plot twist was totally predictable but it was still fun. I liked Jodi's writing style as well. So, in overall, this was quite fun and interesting and I am definitely giving sequel a chance. I would love to see what happens next even though the last 10% of the book were a bit confusing and at times hard to follow. We shall see.
I'm intrigued with this book. I have a mixed vibe on Meadow's book but with that kind of descriptions?
Author friend perks: reading the book 2 years before it hits shelves.Game of Thrones meets Batman = epic Jodi Meadows.
However, this was not the case at all.In The Orphan Queen, we follow our heroine, Wil, as she tries to infiltrate the main palace of the Indigo Kingdom, whom had conquered her kingdom of Aecor nearly ten years earlier.
On top of all of this, she has to deal with her conflicting emotions about Black Knife, the so-called vigilante who, rather than capture her for using magic, enlists her help in ridding the city from the wraith problem.
She goes after what she thinks is right, and isn't shy about stating her disapproval.To make this book even better, if possible, the love interest was someone who helped to make Wil better.
This review was originally posted on The Moonlight Library Please note: this is a review of the sample offered on Edelweiss, which was about one-third of the total book (Part 1), and is not a review of the complete book. SUMMARYWilhemenia is the orphaned queen of a conquered kingdom, a girl disguised as a refugee duchess in an enemy kingdom helping to free her enslaved people and their right to use magic even though other kingdoms believe wraith, a dangerous by-product of magic, is slowly destro
SUMMARYWilhemenia is the orphaned queen of a conquered kingdom, a girl disguised as a refugee duchess in an enemy kingdom helping to free her enslaved people and their right to use magic even though other kingdoms believe wraith, a dangerous by-product of magic, is slowly destroying the world.WORLDBUILDINGThe worldbuilding in this book is phenomenal – there’s so much culture and different beliefs and even small gestures and sayings used by the characters.
Why did I rate the sample of The Orphan Queen 5 stars and Snow Like Ashes, which I read in its entirely only 4, if they are so similar and both enjoyable?
Better get back to the suitors parade!In order to avoid spoilers, I'll stay very vague, because we got a masked man in the lot, which identity was not yet revealed when I stopped reading (but you don't have to graduate from an Ivy League school to guess who that dude could be...).So we had the prince, the prince guard and the vigilante, also known as Boring, Cliché and Kinda Hot. I have nothing to add.Also, it was completely implausible that Wil didn't guess who the masked man was.But again, I DNFed the book so maybe we get a good explanation later.The other characters were meh.
Very enjoyable read! While I found the twist to be pretty obvious, I have to say: THAT CLIFFHANGER ! Can't wait to see how this continues in book 2!
Black Knife is trying to figure out Wil and her band of merry men and women to see if they are thieves or use magic...
Wil and her best friend Melanie, that is in the Osprey group too, plant themselves in the Palace acting like other noble women from another kingdom.
Wil starts going out on missions with Black Knife, yeah, they become friends and then fall in love..
isn't that sweet and they kill wraiths together and save people on the streets.
Of course now I'm going to have to read the next book as I have a fondness for Will and Black Knife now.
