https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59147.The_Royal_Game_and_Other_Stories
Apart from The Royal Game, all the other stories presented here involve women falling in love with male strangers and keeping "dirty little secrets." The Royal Game"A man reveals his character in a chess game...I know well enough from my own experience the mysterious attraction of 'the royal game', that game of games devised by man, which rises majestically above every tyranny of chance, which grants its victor's laurels only to a great intellect, or rather, to a particular form of mental ability."Zweig pairs two unusual subjects he labelled as 'monomaniac' in the great game of chess to examine the psychological effects of "brainwashing" (a technique which fascinated Zweig because of his interest in Psychology) brought about: (1) as a result of nature, and (2) by torturous treatment.
Overall a very enjoyable experience. Every story a literal telling that was done masterfully. Though I typically enjoy a less literal work, Zweig can make you read on, and for that I am grateful, and also quite glad he has been rediscovered and getting his proper due.
He was later then forced to emigrate to England when war broke out, and ultimately settled in Brazil on the outskirts of Rio. In 1942, just after he published the title story of his collection, he and his wife were both extremely despondent over the situation in Europe and his publishing career was in shambles.
Imprisoned years before by the Gestapo, a single chess book saves Dr. B.
Another story, “Amok,” is a tale of dark passion.
A European doctor commits a crime.
Three other stories are included in this book – all of them excellent.
Zweig is a masterful storyteller. These are some of his finest examples, beginning with a man with chess-mania.

Zweig is a master storyteller! Each of these five long short stories (probably too long to be short stories and too short to be novellas) is a psychological thriller, describing obsession so clearly that you, the reader, are swept up its suspense. Zweig, an Austrian Jew, wrote "The Royal Game", during WWII. It has been said to depict Nazi psychological warfare. It along with "The Burning Secret" were my favorites in this volume. But each one is exceptional and wonderfully written. Highly recommended!
Fantastic. Stefan Zweig - what a great find. The book I read had three longish short stories - novellas if you like - The Royal Game, Amok and Letter from an Unknown Woman. If you enjoy Somerset Maugham, I'd recommend Stefan Zweig highly. Three and a half stars! I can't wait to read more by this guy.
Amazing! read it!!!! the only problem is that is too short!!!
Zweig's story-telling ability and vivid descriptions kept me riveted.
Letter from an Unknown Woman by Max Ophuls starred Joan Fontaine, a staple of Hitchcock movies because of her acting ability in thrillers.
The Royal Game movie from what I can tell from the plot did not follow the novella exactly but I am still interested in watching it.
Zweig was a German writer who has been ignored for many years.
Zweig considered it an honor when his books were burned during the Nazi book-burning along with other great German authors such as Brecht, Heine, Remarque, Einstein, etc.
Left to solitary confinement, he finds his only way of keeping his sanity is to rehearse in his mind the great chess matches outlined in a book he stole.
He divides himself into Black and White which eventually leads him to temporary insanity.
After his release and exile he finds himself on a ship with the world chess champion, whom he beats.
During the rematch, the champion, who knows nothing but chess, discovers that delaying his moves leads the lawyer to insanity again as he divides his personality and demands that the moves be made.Great story.
My mind was flying around the idea where does the talent stop and the hardwork start?I felt powerful after I read this book, because I thought that I can do everything if i want it, everything is possible and everything is about choice and time and effort.
But different things take different time and effort from different people and different nerves and vibes and thoughts and all of your mind if you go deeper into it.
Is it about talent, strenght, about being good, being genius?
Such a small story and made my mind fly into so many directions, I loved it!
The Royal Game is a good tale which was made into the film "Brainwashed" that I saw many moons ago, but it was "The Burning Secret" that I liked best. Zweig [1881-1942] had a keen insight to the human mind, especially its darker side. Reference to nerves is quite frequent and more than once he had his characters with suicidal thoughts. Zweig himself committed suicide in a planned operation with his wife. However, the unhappy end should not dissuade one from enjoying these cleverly written stories.
All five stories here are remarkable, "The Royal Game", "Amok", and "Letter from an Unknown Woman" especially. Zweig really gets to the heart of experience and his characters' psyches in a way that's both penetrating and compassionate. There's moments in each of these stories that are just breathtaking. Amazing collection.
Ada rasa sebal yang lucu sekaligus tragis dalam tiap kisah Zweig.
Another interesting novella by Zweig. This one focuses on the game of chess and the circumstances under which an amateur learned the game and ultimately competes against the world champion.
The first 4 deals with different aspects of fear (The Royal Game, Amok, The Burning Secret, Fear), while the last one (Letter from an Unknown Woman) deals with an unrequited love so great, hopeless, and desperate, it's absolutely tragic to think of someone feeling this way.Without giving summaries or going into too much detail, "The Royal Game" is about what a human being's mind will do to survive isolation, interrogation, and fear of possible death.
Most books written for middle school, teenage, or YA kids today reveal instances where you KNOW that a kid that age certainly won't talk or think or act in a way the author is writing.
Lastly, "Letter From an Unknown Woman" (later filmed by Max Ophuls) will literally wrench a reader's heart as it unfolds its terrible tragic tale.These five stories are an excellent introduction to Zweig for those who have not yet discovered him.
Even 'famous writer' understates the prodigious reputation he enjoyed in the last decade or so of his life, when he was arguably the most widely read and translated serious author in the world.
If you have not seen the film or read Zweig, "The Royal Game and Other Stories" is an excellent place to start.
I've had a copy of the 1959 Compass Books edition of Stefan Zweig's The Royal Game on my to-be-read shelf for probably three decades. When the movie The Grand Budapest Hotel brought his name back into public attention, I decided it might be time to finally read the dang thing. The collection is three of his most famous novellas (novellas were his favorite form): "The Royal Game" (also translated as "Chess" and "Chess Story"), "Amok" and "Letter from an Unknown Woman." The conventions of the sto
The collection is three of his most famous novellas (novellas were his favorite form): "The Royal Game" (also translated as "Chess" and "Chess Story"), "Amok" and "Letter from an Unknown Woman."	The conventions of the stories remind me of Joseph Conrad crossed with Edgar Allen Poe. Two of the stories are told as stories-within-a-story; one is related to the narrator on the deck of a ship, the other is a letter the POV character receives.
He is challenged to a game by his fellow ocean liner passengers, demands to be paid, and things run awry when an unknown player joins the group and helps force the champion into a draw.
Each story is exquisitely conceived and composed.
At the center of The Royal Game (the title story) is chess.
(Read: the anti-semite versus the Jew; the fascist versus the quiet, tax-paying, law-abiding citizen.) Most if not all of the stories involve travel or flight of the hunted.
These include: Amok; The Burning Secret; Fear; and Letter from an Unknown Woman.
Every story is a page-turner.
Fear: about a woman engaged in an affair with a pianist.
Will she be blackmailed forever?Letter from an Unknown Woman: about undying, undeclared love.
Huebsch) with Letter From an Unknown Woman and Amok (both translated by Eden and Cedar Paul).
The Royal Game is the alternative translated title for Chess Story (Schachnovelle) and is clearly the pick of the three stories.
In both The Royal Game and Amok the story is told on a boat.
In Amok, in particular, the doctor whose story we hear is portrayed as a vain and self-interested person whose actions are quite despicable, although the narrator to whom he tells his story offers no condemnation or commentary on him.The Royal Game is indeed beautifully structured if a touch histrionic in its characterisation.
After the usual exchange of pleasantries he began to unravel the first of five stories over the next five nights and mornings.The first involved a traveler on a hot, fetid steam ship out of Constantinople who encountering a stranger, is spellbound by his story of a chess match on board ship, the royal game.His next story related the serious misadventures of a colonial doctor in the Malay state implored by a beautiful stranger to end her unwanted pregnancy.
He fell deliriously in love with her and literally ran amok pursing her, a not uncommon reaction in the Malay state during colonial times.Three other stories kept me rapt awaiting their surprising endings, each unique and each revealing an uncanny understanding of human motives.
A great story about chess and compulsion. Being a Zweig novella it is appropriately seasoned with disapproval for fascism and mechanicism but the story is not really about the world of yesterday or fascism. It is not really a political piece, or even a cautionary tale about obsession. It's a tale about Chess, the nature and depths of a game.Only a cursory familiarity with chess is necessary to enjoy the book but fans will be rewarded by good references, particularly the 1922 Alekhine Bogoljubov game, a beauty you can check out here: http://www.chessgames.com/perl/chessg...
This collection of novellas will send you on a frenzied ride. Be prepared to say to yourself all of the following in the course of the read: I-see-what-Wes-Anderson-means! / these-are-great / wait-this-is-dull / now-that's-some-sexy-writin' / C'mon-that-is-so-snobbish / Who-reads-stuff-like-this / Just-a-few-more-pages-even-though-I'm-so-tired. I loved it. Brilliant. I want to read more of his stuff. I love the formula, love the prose, love the gilded world he writes about, love it all.
Zweig's novellas and stories take place in Europe in the period between the wars. Written in detailed, often flowery manner, they give insight into a thin slice of society through a central character whom the reader comes to know well. Zweig's prejudice against people who don't share his values of civilized society is palpable. The most moving story in the collection is the title story, The Royal Game. Hard to put this story down.
Wonderfully written short stories. My favorite is the first, "The Royal Game", but the others are interesting, too. It's worth reading the introduction, since it sheds light on the author's style and background. I recommend reading the introduction at the end, though, so it doesn't color your reading of the stories.
The stories of Stefan Zweig are exquisite gems. In his day he was one of most popular writers of his time, but now many of his books are out-of-print. Thankfully, a few smaller presses like Pushkin Press are making some of Zweig’s work available once again. THE ROYAL GAME & OTHER STORIES contains some of Zweig’s classics.
Stephan Zweig offers a fresh perspective on the psychological terror instilled by the Nazis in this fast-paced short story, The Royal Game. One need not be a lover of chess to love this work. This author deserves much more praise.
Zweig is clearly a skilled writer, but he was also a close friend of Sigmund Freud, and it shows. Thus the plots tend to give me a large helping of Do. Not. Want. Sometimes I'd rather just go with being able to pretend that the cigar is just a cigar, yanno?
The Royal Game is up there with the best novels I've read. It's not only entertaining, but also human psychology is used in a very unique way that makes the whole story feel very real.A great read and highly recommended.
So old fashioned. The Royal Game was good, and read Amok, but had to stop halfway through The Burning Secret. Just could not take how Zweig portrayed women, or how he portrayed men thinking about women. Ugh.
