https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/423305.Topper_Takes_a_Trip
Oh, Topper, how I do love you!The second Topper book by Thorne Smith, although not quite as good as the first, is still a biting confection of wit and well worth the read if you enjoyed the first.
While the first book takes dear old Topper, our mild-mannered, suburban-dwelling, bank executive and spins him on an adventure with some free-wheeling ghosts that causes him much reflection on his life, this second book has Topper, now a retired bank executive, galavanting in the south of France with the very same mischievous, sexy, prohibition-despising ghosts as accomplices.The book is basically a series of madcap mishaps which give Thorne Smith much ammunition to poke fun at what silly humans we all can be.
From my younger days as a much older person in a younger person’s body I had some familiarity with the old Topper movies though if the reading of this book is any judge of such things my concept of what the movies were actually ABOUT might be more than a tad askew of reality.Cosmo Topper is an average American bank executive on holiday in the French Riveria.
One of the phantom quartet is bent on using Topper solely to supply a good time.
This is the sequel to Topper. It lacks much of the compassion of its predecessor, and it's darker while at the same time being sillier. Still, it's pretty funny.
Smith writes in a kind of Wodehousian longhand, so for people like me who rather enjoy playful prolixity, it’s fun.
Smith, by contrast, in this novel has a film set in mind with his core (or corps?) of stars and a large supporting cast; he creates a world that is more recognizably real because it’s fuller and less confined.
I so enjoy this kind of humor. I suppose there are some deep thoughts here but first enjoy its humor and fun and then contemplate all those things.
'Why don't you get the deuce out of here and give my husband the chance to get some sleep?'Marion Kerby, in the stunning costume she had worn at the races, appeared gloriously in the bathroom door and stood looking coldly upon the manager.'Madame,' he replied apologetically, admiration sharpening his eyes.
'What's all this about windows and naked women?''One of them went through that window, madame,' the manager explained.'Do you want a naked woman?' Marion demanded.'But no madame.
'You were not perhaps that woman, madame?''Do I look as if I'd been thrown through a window?' Marion asked haughtily.'On the contrary, madame,' the manager answered gallantly.
"A vast expanse of cool ocean as blue and virginal seeming as the garments adorning the figure then inspecting it from the balcon> of a discouragingly pale stucco villa set in a garden fairly bristling with grass of a repellent toughness -- grass so hostilely tough that only a rhinoceros could sit on it with any showing of dignity and aplomb.
Even better than (and quite different from) the movie with Constance Bennett and Roland Young!
Britain has Wodehouse; America has Thorne Smith.
He is a national treasure who should be more widely read.
Unfortunately, he is out of print in this country.
However, you can still find his books at Amazon.co.uk.
"Topper Takes a Trip" is the follow-up to Topper.
Topper is a banker who develops a following of hard-partying ghosts.
In this book he goes to the South of France.
Read Smith and you will think you've seen it all before in comedy films.
That is because Hollywood stole a lot of what it knows about comedy from Smith, and it is still funny today.
This is the second outing of Cosmo Topper and his ghostly friends, and time has gone by, the author is six years older and even more world-weary.
Although this time the action is set in France, which gives him a chance to have a go at the French as well as the Americans.I originally preferred this second book, but now I find the first rather charming—childish in a nice way.
The second book has its moments, but it displays a more adolescent sense of humour with a touch of malice, which may not appeal unless you're in the mood for it.
* 1000 novels everyone must read: the definitive listSelected by the Guardian's Review team and a panel of expert judges, this list includes only novels – no memoirs, no short stories, no long poems – from any decade and in any language. Originally published in thematic supplements – love, crime, comedy, family and self, state of the nation, science fiction and fantasy, war and travel – they appear here for the first time in a single list.
Another prime example of Thorne Smith's sophisticated skewering of the early 20th century bourgeois..."Madame is your wife?" exclaimed Monsieur in a mixture of surprise and disappointment."But yes," replied Mr Topper. "Is it that you believed her my mistress?"Monsieur Grandon shrugged temporizingly."It is of an occurrence unique." He Observed. "One expects more of an American when he visits our Riviera."
from Library Thing list
A true American classic - Thorne Smith is delightful!
There was a style of comedy at the time that I don't think any writer would be allowed to be verbose enough to get away with today.
The sequal to 'Topper.' Thorne Smith is one of America's most underrated writer. You want screwball energy and wit? This is it! Depression era writing at it's most great.
Have loved Topper since I was a teenager!
