https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16298.A_Murder_Is_Announced
‘’People with a grudge against the world are always dangerous.’’ An idyllic village in the English countryside is waking up, its quirky residents about to start their day with their favourite newspaper, where an invitation to murder is waiting for them. Can you think of anything more interesting? Leticia, the ‘’queen’’ of the village, is completely unaware of the play supposedly staged in her house, but what the heck, let’s go with the flow. And a murder does take place but not in the way every
An idyllic village in the English countryside is waking up, its quirky residents about to start their day with their favourite newspaper, where an invitation to murder is waiting for them.
Thus, everything is ready for one of the finest mysteries by Queen Agatha.
I remember that after reading A Murder Is Announced, quite a few years ago, I never looked at that porcelain thing in the same way as before.
Not that I ever liked it but anyway...Revisiting this mystery always feels like reading it for the very first time.Would you accept an invitation to murder?
foretelling it will happen at a certain date and time.
Yes. Does it happen?
The best part about this one is the murder takes forever to happen...
I can imagine watching the clock waiting but not knowing what to do.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
I write A LOT.
And now I blog A LOT.
Leave a comment and let me know what you think.
Note: All written content is my original creation and copyrighted to me, but the graphics and images were linked from other sites and belong to them.
Many thanks to their original creators.
She's like a magician who tells an audience that she's going to make a coin disappear and reappear.
That's what reading a good Agatha Christie book is like.
My favorite Christie stories are the ones where multiple people get murdered.
The absurd: Quotes like this, when the police are discussing the inhabitants of the village where the murder took place: "'Nice old pussies and retired colonels.
Wouldn't she like to get her nice ladylike teeth into this?''Who's your own particular pussy, Henry?
I understand that Agatha Christie's definition of "pussy" is vastly different from my own.
Miss Letitia Blackstone houses scatty Dora, cousins Julia and Patrick, gardener widow Phillipa, and paranoid cook Mitzi.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیست و ششم ماه نوامبر سال 2009 میلادیعنوان: اعلام یک قتل، پنجمین کتاب از ماجراهای دوشیزه مارپل، نویسنده: آگاتا کریستی؛ مترجم: محمدعلی ایزدی، نشر: کتاب‌های کارآگاه (وابسته به انتشارات هرمس)، چاپ دوم، در سال 1388، ادبیات پلیسی و جنایی در 362 صفحه ؛ شابک: 9789643634100؛عنوان: قطار ساعت چهار و پنجاه دقیقه از پدینگتون و اعلام یک قتل؛ نویسنده: آگاتا کریستی؛ مترجم: محمدعلی ایزدی، تهران، هرمس، 1388؛ در 720 ص؛ شابک: 9789643636203؛ چکیده: در روزنامه ی محلی روستایی کوچک، قتلی در خانه ی زنی به نام «لتیشا بلک‌ لاک» اعلام می‌شود.
This insight into characters as well as the milieu they are placed in reminds me a bit of Jane Austen and what she wrote to her niece Anna on writing novels: “3 or 4 Families in a Country village is the very thing to work on”.
Also a quote from Elizabeth Bennet comes to mind: “Follies and nonsense, whims and inconsistencies do divert me, I own, and I laugh at them whenever I can.” So this mixture of Jane Austen & Agatha Christie which delights me in this particular novel.
Before long, we meet her in person.Christie is in peak form here, displaying skill in every aspect of writing, balanced with atmosphere, character, mystery and philosophy, with not an excess word present.
This may be why A Murder is Announced is one of her better mysteries; though she provides a number of clues and red herrings, her details are so sparse that careful reading is needed.
She’s a Communist or worse, he says, and we don’t like that sort ‘ere.’“All he does is talk, and with every sentence, Christie gives us the picture of the small town, the gossip, the dynamic between the young and the old, the long-time residents and the foreigners–or furriners, as he says.
Review to follow when I can get to my laptop :)Right I now have access to a proper keyboard, so I can write my review. Now this book to me was heading for 5 stars, until one particular incident (view spoiler)[ when Miss Marple hides in the cupboard (that bit is ok) but then mimics the dead Dora to unnerve Ms Blacklock. This to me sounded very unlikely, and indeed completely unnecessary as they had just caught Ms Blacklock trying to murder Mitzi (hide spoiler)].That apart it was an excellent myst
Now this book to me was heading for 5 stars, until one particular incident (view spoiler)[ when Miss Marple hides in the cupboard (that bit is ok) but then mimics the dead Dora to unnerve Ms Blacklock.
This to me sounded very unlikely, and indeed completely unnecessary as they had just caught Ms Blacklock trying to murder Mitzi  (hide spoiler)].That apart it was an excellent mystery with Miss Marple on fine form.
For once I did latch onto a couple of clues along the way, so the denouement was not a complete surprise, although I did have vague memories of the Joan Hickson TV episode.All in all thoroughly enjoyable, and I look forward to the next book in the series
What actually does happen is murder, when a young man holds up the room at the appointed time, and the stage is set for a wonderfully convoluted plot, involving the will of a wealthy financial, a great cast of possible suspects and some romance.The crime is investigated by Detective Inspector Dermot Craddock, who turns out to be the godson of Sir Henry Clithering, the ex-commissioner of Scotland Yard, who is a great believer in the powers of Miss Marple.
Little Paddocks is the property owned by Miss Letitia Blacklock, a house she lives in with one of her dearest friends, two young cousins, her gardener and her cook.
A strange ad is published in the local gazette luring all the neighbours to the house of Miss Letitia Blacklock.
There is just one thing that bothered me with the book and that is the casual way in which the past of Mitzi, the Eastern European war refugee who is Miss Blacklock's cook, was overlooked.
and the unintentionally hilarious mentions of old pussies!
"Ye Gods and Little Fishes," said Sir Henry, "can it be?
George, it's my own particular, one and only four starred Pussy.
The super Pussy of all old Pussies..."Ok, I know I'm being childish!
:DBut every character was so dismissive of foreign refugee Mitzi's suffering.
And coincidence was stretched a bit far with (view spoiler)[ so many characters who weren't who they said they were.
I also found Miss M's actions at the end a bit unlikely.
(hide spoiler)]Still a good escapist bit of writing - just don't go in with big expectations!
A Miss Marple story which has "delicious death" as its central plot. Once again Agatha Christie comes up with a superb plot for her 50th novel. The beginning i quite different from her other stories but intriguing. Though limited to a few characters, the reader is left guessing till the end who the murderer was. Delightful read
This could easily have become a scene dull in its repetition, but Christie's knack for character creation kept each one feeling fresh and had me poring over these many times hoping to decipher some piece to the puzzle that was as yet unknown to me.As the story-line progressed, and moved to the scene of the crime, there was just as much to keep the reader guessing as all characters gave their disparate descriptions of the event, that painted more than one in a sinister light.
A Murder is Announced is the fifth story to feature Miss Marple and the fiftieth novel that Agatha Christie published and the post-war era is very much in evidence in the picturesque village of Chipping Cleghorn which is home to many an elderly spinster.
Without detailing further and spoiling the joys of reading the novel first hand, expect ruminations on the changing era where everyone no longer knows everyone’s families and simply has to accept people at face value due to the displacement effect of the war.
There is nothing like settling down with an Agatha Christie, pots of tea and hot scones in the midst of winter storms....(Had pots of tea, but no scones unfortunately).“A murder is announced and will take place on Friday, October the thirteenth, at Little Paddocks – at six-thirty p.m.” reads the advert in the local paper. The residents of Chipping Cleghorn are expecting a game of murder, but get a little more than they bargained for.I have quite given up trying to fathom who is guilty when reading Christie....I just enjoy the ride. And a very enjoyable one this was.
Really enjoyed this one! Agatha Christie at her best.
Miss Blacklock chooses to take it in walk and gets ready to have visitors that night.
The man requests they "Stick them up!" Most of the visitors do as such, trusting it to be a piece of an amusement.
It's found that circuits are blown, the shooter has been shot, and Miss Blacklock's ear is dying, clearly from a projectile touching her ear cartilage.
All pieces of information propose that the case is only a peculiar suicide or coincidental passing, yet Inspector Craddock is uneasy about the two conceivable outcomes.
Or do they?“In an English village, you turn over a stone and have no idea what will crawl out.”I have read A Murder is Announced three times now and I still count this as one of my favourite Christie novel - and, yes, even that sanctimonious old busy-body that is Miss Marple does not spoil the book for me.
Actually, 3,5 stars, because I expected more from this book. I read this book in my own language in just one sitting.
Remember that rushing feeling in the good old days when you'd pick up the receiver of your kitchen phone and dangle it so that all the knots in the cord would come undone?
Analogous to unraveling your kitchen phone cord -it's not enough to undo the biggest knot.
An old lady who always "just knows" and for reasons you don't expect.
I don't know about you but when I read about Miss Marple, I feel like a genius-in-the-making.
إنه فضول يملأ نفوس جميع سكان القرية بما فيهم الآنسة "ماربل" ، ويتجمع حشد من السكان الذين لم يستطيعوا مقاومة الفضول الذى أثاره هذا الإعلان فى نفس الموعد المحدد ، وعندئذ ، وبدون سابق إنذار انطفأت الأنوار و دخل رجل ملثم يأمر الجميع برفع أيديهم إذ برصاصتان تنطلقان و رصاصة ثالثة تحدث بعدها الجريمة لكن على الملثم المقتحم نفسه ..
فمن نفذ الجريمة و ماذا كان هدفه من هذا التخطيط كله ؟     غموض ..
و متعة التحقيق مع الآنسة العجوز العبقرية ميس ماربل ..
This totally has the best back jacket copy ever:Then, as the clock chimed 6:30, the room went dark.A gun exploded!A body fell!A woman screamed!When the lights went on, a man was found lying on the floor. He was wrapped in a black cloak. He wore a black mask and he lay in a pool of blood -- dead.(Just in case you weren't quite sure. -- DEAD.)There had been thirteen people in the room -- thirteen witnesses who might have identified the killer.OH BOY. These are like little deadlies.
and at 6:30 on the dot, the lights go out, and a murder is committed.The rest of the book goes as Miss Marple books usually go.
A local police inspector takes charge of the investigation, and Miss Marple does her thing* quietly in the background, aiding the police when possible, and using her old lady status to shake people down all gentle and quiet-like.
Also, I listened to this on audio, and Emilia Fox is really good at voices.As mentioned above, I did manage to perform a miracle and identify the murderer on my first guess, early on.
I think it's a rare person who could solve the mystery without guessing.
A reread for work.
Happy new year, everyone.I love Miss Marple for several reasons: most notably because she is a rural English lady with a strong sense of morality, who knits things and notices things, and she has been a role model of mine for at least a decade.I love this book in particular, partly because it's an extremely well-written example of its genre, but mostly because as far as I can recall, it's the first book I ever read that made me think, "Huh. Those characters are clearly lesbians." And actually quite aspirational, for me aged eleven or twelve or however old I must have been - newly into secondary school, anyway.
A Murder is Announced by Agatha Christie is a classic cozy mystery with diversely interesting characters, a quick and gripping plot, and a unique story line set in the perfectly quiet English village of Chipping Cleghorn---until a murder announcement is placed into the local newspaper, casually inviting the entire village to Letty Blacklock’s home for an evening of dry sherry and murder. Naturally everyone presumes that the advertisement was someone’s idea of fun, but when the body of Swiss rece
A Murder is Announced by Agatha Christie is a classic cozy mystery with diversely interesting characters, a quick and gripping plot, and a unique story line set in the perfectly quiet English village of Chipping Cleghorn---until a murder announcement is placed into the local newspaper, casually inviting the entire village to Letty Blacklock’s home for an evening of dry sherry and murder.
Many memorable characters infuse this mystery with effervescent fun and provide a host of glorious Christie-style suspects, including debonair Patrick Simmons, icy Julia Simmons, murder-minded Mrs. Sweetnham and her laconic writer son, Edmond, the refugee maid Mitzi, who is hysterically funny in her interview with the police, and distant Phillipa Haymes, a quiet young widow who works as a gardener.
ماهذه الرواية ؟ ما هذا اللغز الغريب ؟ حقا رواية في منتهي الغرابة ..
إلا أن الذي يسعدني حقا إنني شككت في أمرين وقد صدق ظني (:لا أصدق أنني توصلت للحل في منتصف القصة تقريباً ^_^ يبدو أنني بعد عشرات الروايات مع أجاثا بدأت افهم عقليتها ..
أو علي الأقل بدأت تصدق توقعاتي بشأن بعض الأحداث (:إلا أنني لن أعتاد علي هذا ..
فالطبيعي هو ألا تحل شيئاً والاستثناء أن تصدق توقعاتك في بعض الأحيانفلقد شككت في شخصية معينة ..
شخصية لا يمكن الشك فيها أبدااا وقد صدق ظني ..
This one has an interesting cast of characters, Miss Marple showing everyone up, and references to characters that many in the series should know by now, such as Sir Henry Clithering.
Due to Miss Marple's connection to Sir Henry and just being around the area, she gets pulled in to investigate when a supposed murder party goes wrong and then two more people die afterwards.
Turn that off if you can and just read the book fresh.Miss Marple was on top of her game for this one (IMHO) and I loved how she was welcomed by the local police and used her great powers of deduction to figure this one out.
لماذا البريطانيون يحبون المماطلة في الكشف عن القاتل ؟؟أراهن على أن تحريات الجريمة في " مكان ما غير بريطانيا " كان سينتهي بغضون 24 ساعة وذلك بالقبض على جميع المدعوين وسكان المنزل وحتى ضابط الشرطة و"كفين تلاتة " ويعترف كل شخص بأنه القاتل ولكن عموماً هذه أول مرة أرى فيها أن ثرثرة النساء والعجائز يمكن أن تجدي وتفك ملابسات جريمة
A really intriguing mystery, which uses a plot device which Christie has used in many stories - yet it will be difficult to spot it. I especially loved the crucial sentence which would change its meaning based on which word the stress was put.
I read a lot of Agatha Christie when I was a kid, but have rather neglected her as an adult, so this was, I think, the first one I've read in years.
If I've read it before, I don't remember it at all, and Christie is as delightful as I remembered.
Miss Marple is a delight--sharp and perceptive, but willing to let people think she's just a flighty old gossip in order to unobtrusively investigate their lives.
Amidst the personal column in the Chipping Cleghorn Gazette one Friday morning is the announcement of a murder to take place at Little Paddocks that evening.
Miss Marple is once again in this book (like in Sleeping Murder before this) much more active, diving into life at Chippng Cleghorn, paying visits, gossiping and putting on the appearance, as Craddock puts it, of having “nosey parkeritis” in what is her most complicated puzzle yet.
This one I also found somewhat different from the other Marple books so far in that Miss M doesn’t rely entirely on her knowledge of human nature to solve her case but far more on information that emerges from the many conversations she has with those involved.
