https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25489625-between-the-world-and-me
I simply felt like it was something I needed to read at that moment, and I'm very glad I did.Between the World and Me is written as a letter/essay from Coates to his fifteen-year-old son, trying to come to terms with what it means to grow up as an African American male in 2015.
I believe many white readers, if they are honest with themselves, will think, If I'm a white person, why should I read a book about African Americans?
I wept because Coates' story was my story from my early experiences as a student at Morehouse College (the Harvard of the South) to the wanderer (and discoverer) of beauty upon the Parisian landscape, to accepting my unexpected role as an English teacher in a tough and directionless Baltimore City, to my exploration and rebirth, producing who I am today.Like so many, I was immediately taken to the oft quoted, extensively analyzed and eternally relevant essay, The Fire Next Time, written in 1962 by James Baldwin, as a “letter” to his nephew, written I suppose, for all the nephews in the world to analyze and digest.
Coates book deserves to be a classic, just as much as The Life of Frederick Douglass, The Souls of Black Folk, The Fire Next Time, and The Autobiography of Malcolm X—all first-class books—deserve it.
Coates describes his odyssey from the narrow streets of Baltimore, to the black “Mecca” of Howard University, to the diverse neighborhoods of NYC, and to his encounter with a profoundly different culture on the boulevards of Paris.
The critique that black women are invisible or marginalized in the book is a faulty one; there is Mabel Jones, whose powerful testimony and grieving for her son closes the book and codifies the only perspective from which TNC would be able to include a black woman's voice - as mother, wife.
And Black writers need to be able to make their own legacies without immediate comparisons that perpetuate the limited imagination that America has for us...along with the continual reality that there can only ever be one valid, praised Black writer at a time.
Despite the privilege of receiving a free book, I’m absolutely candid about it below because I believe authors and readers will benefit most from honest reviews rather than vacuous 5-star reviews.Written in the form of a letter from a father to a son, "Between the World and Me" is a detailed crystallization of the state of racism in our country today and its historical roots throughout the entire history of our country.
My normal review format is to prattle on about positive and negative aspects of a book but in this case I think it's really more important to the potential reader that they understand what exactly it is that they're getting.For those who want a light breezy primer on racism...
In the past two weeks we've heard Sandra Bland's traffic stop and watched Samuel DuBose be murdered before our eyes and the trauma of witnessing these things, and the rest from the past year, has left pretty much everyone looking for answers.This book did partially answer a huge question I've had for years that I'm sure a lot of other uninformed white people have but that's too offensive and embarrassing to ask black parents directly, which is, "What do you tell your kids?
"But all our phrasing- race relations, racial chasms, racial justice, racial profiling, white privilege, even white supremacy- serves to obscure that racism is a visceral experience, that it dislodges brains, blocks airways, rips muscle, extracts organs, cracks bones, breaks teeth." - Ta-Nehisi Coates, Between the World and Me A couple of days ago I posted on Twitter a painting by Jean-Léon Gérôme entitled  "Truth Coming Out of Her Well to Shame Mankind."  I love the painting, the title, and I
"But all our phrasing- race relations, racial chasms, racial justice, racial profiling, white privilege, even white supremacy- serves to obscure that racism is a visceral experience, that it dislodges brains, blocks airways, rips muscle, extracts organs, cracks bones, breaks teeth." - Ta-Nehisi Coates, Between the World and Me A couple of days ago I posted on Twitter a painting by Jean-Léon Gérôme entitled 
Although most literature is focused on the USA, so many of us who don't live there understand to a certain extent the experiences.[image error]" />Jean-Léon Gérôme- "Truth Coming Out of Her Well to Shame Mankind." So I read this eloquent and detailed response to the world, a letter to Ta-Nehisi Coate's teenage son, and I'm glad I did.
Folks that love Mr. Coates will love this book, as they'll be able to follow him through a piece that is somewhat indulgent -- but he certainly won't win new fans or quell his skeptics (like myself) with this piece of work.
Coates says that he wanted to write like Baldwin, but it just comes across as a unfocused, stream of consciousness.
In this short yet powerful message, Coates delivers a rap on race and offers hope to African Americans in their struggle to maintain their culture.
Yet despite her dream of her son attending Harvard, he chose Howard, the Mecca for black students who need a space to be themselves, to flaunt their rap and hip hop and African culture.
Then, I read Coates essay where he bluntly states that as a parent of a black child, he is fearful for him to go out into the world.
Coates in his book reduces America to basically two categories: The Dreamers, (White Americans) and the rest being Black folk.
This thinking demonstrates such a pedestrian understanding of America, especially when considering that the "Empire," as Coates once correctly refers to this nation, is headed by a Black president, Attorney General, and Director of Homeland Security.
Coates' inability to explain American oppression outside of mere anti-black racism is also troubling in its banality.
No critique of capitalism that explains why it needs racism and a complete lack of materialist analysis outside the totally unoriginal rhetoric of "America was built on our backs." Coates' myopic race speak drivel offers no remedy or policy, simple grievance and complaint.
He has braids, and sometimes earrings, and likes US ghetto-style clothes complete with gang-style head wrap occasionally (time he grew out of it but still....).Since he is used to giving orders on racing boats for MDs etc and expects them to be followed, he doesn't really have any idea of the respect Blacks are supposed to pay White authority figures in the US as Ta-Nehisi Coates prescribes.
My family were in Russia until the 1920s but my skin colour condemns me to them, guilty of slavery as far as she and they are concerned.A guy I know, a Black Muslim, very friendly (although his father is an anti-Semite and tries to get people to buy Texe Marrs books).
I was both very impressed and frustrated with Ta-Nehisi Coates’ Between the World and Me. Written as a letter to his son, Coates presents racism and white privilege as a visceral experience, with much discussion, especially early in the book about what it means to lose your (black) body.
I’m not going to explain what Coates means by losing your body; you should read how he frames this in the context of both American history and his own experience.
If individuals can’t be a force for change, is it even helpful to recognize white privilege in the first place?
Hmm. A lot to think about here. Stay tuned.
This is an extremely important book that should be read.
I am late to the party so there is not much for me to say that others haven't.I listened to the audio version of this book.
I think that I will listen to it again when I am alone with nothing to distract me.
If you are going to listen to the audio version make sure you have enough time to listen to it in one or two sittings without distractions.Highly recommended to anyone who has yet to read it.
‘You cannot forget how much they took from us and how they transfigured our very bodies into sugar, tobacco, cotton, and gold.’ Coates letter is an extraordinarily blunt and honest stance in the depths of storm, highlighting the violent lunacy of racism—‘race is the child of racism, not the father’—opening our eyes to the real immediacy of violence and white privilege in a poise and prose sure to leave readers awestruck in it’s powerful wake.Hate gives identity.
It doesn't insult by offering a solution to the problems, but aims only to make the reader acknowledge the deeply internalized, institutionalized racism, hate, and fear that built America and the American Dream.
I was made for the library, not the classroom.
The library was open, unending, free.
Slowly, I was discovering myself.""I am black, and have been plundered and have lost my body.
The nigger, the fag, the bitch illuminate the border, illuminate what we ostensibly are not, illuminate the Dream of being white, of being a Man. We name the hated strangers and are thus confirmed in the tribe.
But it's a blow I hope more people can take because this book needs to be read.Structured as a letter to his teenage son, Ta-Nehisi Coates writes about what it means to be a black man in America.
When Coates writes about the treatment of blacks by police, his simmering anger starts to boil.You would be a man one day, and I could not save you from the unbridgeable distance between you and your future peers and colleagues, who might try to convince you that everything I know, all the things I'm sharing with you here, are an illusion, or a fact of a distant past that need not be discussed.
4.5/5 stars!I listened to the audiobook for this, which was superb, I love that the author narrated it. I do think that I would really benefit from re-reading this physically, as at some points I got lost and not everything stuck in my mind. I want to have the chance to take it slow, savour the incredible writing and really feel the power of his words.
In Coates' case, he's referring to the degree to which people adopt and believe the (American) Dream and how it and its tradition is defined."The question is not whether Lincoln truly meant “government of the people “ but what our country has, throughout its history, taken the political term “people “ to actually mean."There's an intriguing theme running through the book about the importance of control over one's body and space, and the lack of control--both historic and current--black people have over their own.
I grew up in Chicago and I have seen more than my fair share of the racial divide.
Yet, I have never before read an eye opening book like this one.
This is his viewpoint, shared by many of the black race and that is what I found astonishing, because it gave me an inside look at how they feel and why they might react the way they do.
Well written, better in some parts than others but yes a must read, regardless of where you stand on the race issue.
Holy shit this book. I broke down into tears on the subway upon finishing the last page. As a very privileged white woman I don't feel like I have much right to talk about this book but I hope when it comes out everyone else talks about it because it is beautiful and devastating and has the potential to be so important.
I would have you be a conscious citizen of this terrible and beautiful world.” ― Ta-Nehisi Coates, Between the World and MeAwaken Fellow Dreamers.
Ta-Nehisi Coates has written a book that runs the distance from the black body (with all its wounds and fears) and the stars (with its ability to be a conscious citizen of the world).
I live with the hope they will pay attention more to the young black bodies in Chicago, Baltimore, New York, D.C., whose eyes are blindfolded with fear of living among the dreamers.
If you're waiting for the millionth person to tell you to read this book, allow me to be Person 1,000,000. The audiobook is narrated by the author, Ta-Nehisi Coates, and it made the experience deeper for me.
Between the World and Me Ta-Nehisi Coates- The Author "The life of the nation is secure only while the nation is honest, truthful, and virtuous", Frederick Douglas- Writer/American Abolitionist "One cannot, at once, claim to be superhuman and then plead mortal error. I propose to take our countrymen’s claims of American exceptionalism seriously, which is to say I propose subjecting our country to an exceptional moral standard". Ta-Nehisi Coates - Between the World and Me*************************
It also turned out to be a compelling and poetic memoir, a frank and moving letter from a concerned father to his 15 year-old son in the times of the "Black Lives Matter" movement.Between the World and Me is sort of a extended, written version of “the talk", a preemptive conversation many parents of black and minorities children have, coaching them on how to conduct themselves in front of the police.
I am ashamed that I made an error, knowing that our errors always cost us more"."Had I informed this woman that when she pushed my son, she was acting according to tradition that held black bodies as lesser, her response would likely have been, "I am not a racist." Or maybe not.
Coates takes us on a journey in Baltimore, with the Black Mecca of Howard University, New York, and Paris...He tells his son..."struggle for your grandmother and grandfather, for your name.
The Dreamers will have to learn to struggle themselves, to understand that the field for their Dream, the stage where they have painted themselves white, is a deathbed of us all".
After reading James Baldwin's The Fire Next Time, Coates was inspired to write a similar "open letter" to his son, a conversation about the expression of racism in American, from the 17th century slave trade to the 21st century killings of unarmed black men that galvanized the Black Lives Matter movement.
It struck me that perhaps the defining feature of being drafted into the black race was the inescapable robbery of time, because the moments we spent readying the mask, or readying ourselves to accept half as much, could not be recovered.
“You are growing into consciousness, and my wish for you is that you feel no need to constrict yourself to make other people comfortable.” Earlier this year I read several blog posts complaining about the 'plague' of important books, and the annoyance people felt when reviewers told them that a specific book was important*. As if awareness was some awful disease we should avoid at all cost. Well. I don't agree with this. I don't buy in the "everyone knows and cares about it already" narrative,
The need to separate oneself with other people's issues has never been so obvious than in the previous months, so sorry if I'm hurting some people's feelings when other people's lives are at stake, but I do believe that some books are important and Between the World and Me is definitely one of them.
I may review it later, when I feel less disheartened by the world.
* I do agree that dealing with an important issue is not enough to make a great book, but that's another question altogether.
Thank you, Mr. Coates, for letting me listen in on your letter to your son.
By sharing your lyrical insights, you helped me see, you moved me, you angered me, you made me feel at times big and at times small, you made me feel exasperated, you puzzled me, you spoke to me, you lost me, you made me nod and smile for example when you wrote of your love of books, learning and writing, you wowed me with your crazy clever mind and prose, you made me think and feel, you made me examine myself, you made me examine my friends, neighbours and colleagues, you made me despair and you made me marginally hopeful.
This accomplished writer tells of the young black experience: the trauma, the theft of life, the theft of experience--in his words, the very danger to his body--that is a part of what it means to be a black man living in a white nation.
What Ta-Nehisi Coates communicates with such vast power, using mere words, is that it never ends for a black man.
He can pay for any sins, grieve his losses, heal from his trauma, attempt to come out whole, only to still be a black man in America faced with a constant threat to his person, to his body.
Baldwin's words may be the talk of a Dreamer to Coates who is jaded by the 'myth', but they are important to meditate, and offer the spiritual advice to readers who may not find such a message in this book:I am very much concerned that American Negroes achieve their freedom here in the United States.
