https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17378527-the-raven-king
(By the way, she said that Gansey wasn’t going to die) (Thanks Mom for believing.)As I mentioned before, it starts with Gansey’s incredibly rich and unique tale and continues with his found family.“Where the hell is Ronan?” Gansey asked, echoing the words that thousands of humans had uttered since mankind developed speech.”What is my review worth without mentioning Ronan too many times?But seriously, he continues to amaze me and he’s just an all-time favorite of mine that I won’t be letting go of any time soon.Also, I’m in love with this fanart of him: Source“Gansey asked, “Do you have time to run an errand with us?
this book has gross parts
FEBRUARY 2016?!*weeps in corner*
I sighed, I laughed, I cried, I tore at my hair, I screamed, I dreamed, and I died about a thousand deaths!In short: I lived and breathed those books!!!They became an integral part of me and my life and I actually feel like I’ve become one of the Raven Boys as well.
XD Piper and that mean demon almost killed my lovely boys so I think I’m kind of entitled to feel that way.
Ronan and Adam weren’t with them, so there was no one to catch them in what felt like an incredibly indecent act.”Don’t you love it that Gansey thinks Blue driving his Camaro is an “incredibly indecent act”?
He was a book, and he was holding his final pages, and he wanted to get to the end to find out how it went, and he didn't want it to be over.
Everyone knows about that feeling you get at the end of a series.
When you know the  really terrible thing  that author hinted at (for three books) is about to happen.
He was a king.
This was the year he was going to die.
AND all you can do is rationalize that the author couldn't possibly let that happen - she wouldn't betray us like that,  RIGHT?
He was a book, and he was holding his final pages, and he wanted to get to the end to find out how it went, and he didn't want it to be over.
Everyone knows about that feeling you get at the end of a series.
When you know the  really terrible thing  that author hinted at (for three books) is about to happen.
Seeing how Blue, Ronan, Adam and Gansey grew and developed over the series does wonders for my heart.
He does such an amazing job with the tone, inflection, everything that it feels like I'm listening to all my favorite characters chit-chatting rather than someone reading the book to me.Blog | Instagram | Twitter

He said, “I think it’s time to find Glendower.”Adam said, “I think you’re right.” YAYYY!! It's out now and I'm so excited to relive TRK through everyone else's eyes ♥I'm sitting here now trying to string some decent words together, with dried tears on my cheeks, in hopes of being able to convey even a shred of the feelings warring inside me. For three books, I have tried to describe exactly what this series means to me. And in those three attempts, I feel as if I have failed. At this point, its
The characters are everything, the story is everything and whatever the first three books were, The Raven King was more.
I think the fact that Maggie Stiefvater wrote two kisses in The Raven King says enough.Well, it really doesn't.
The Raven King is the last book in the cycle, and things are getting hairy, and there are a million things happening that I could tease; I have no reason to make something up to amuse myself or string readers along.
No one talk to me.
SPOILER FREE REVIEW: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=igtgn...This whole series was an absolute masterpiece. I feel like I've been a part of something wonderful and I am so grateful for it.
“He was a king. This was the year he was going to die.”  I think a little piece of me died after I finished The Raven King. I am numb and energetic, happy and sad, satisfied and insatiable.And definitely not okay.  “Richard Gansey III had forgotten how many times he had been told he was destined for greatness.”   Depending on where you began the story, it was about friendship.Courage. Dedication. Loyalty.Magic.While Cabeswater kept fading, while Glendower remained hidden, Blue and her raven bo
I think a little piece of me died after I finished The Raven King.
Loyalty.Magic.While Cabeswater kept fading, while Glendower remained hidden, Blue and her raven boys had to make important decisions, untangle their feelings, understand the metaphysical powers that threaded their web around Henrietta and face demons and corruption and opportunists and monsters.
The Raven King was more desperate though.
Only relish Blue and her boys' presense, their fights and their bickerings and their unbreakable bond and wish that this bond would survive.
The same way Ronan worshipped Adam, and Gansey worshipped Blue.
A Raven Cycle.
My predictions:• Gansey would die and come back to life.• Ronan might also die or at least nearly die, due to something Adam said in BLLB.• That Gansey would come back as Glendower and possibly have to relearn what it is to be Gansey again with the help of Blue & Co.• The Grey Man and Maura would be AN ITEM FOREVER.• Calla would make pie.• #PYNCH WOULD SAIL.
And Gansey gave Adam the "okay so don't hurt my brother Ronan's heart" talk like the good big bro he is and that part melted me.
I vowed The Raven King would be the last Stiefvater's book I’m going to read. Even though that’s the case, I was genuinely optimistic for it. I want to wrap up The Raven Cycle in a satisfying note. I had fond memories of the characters, and I thought it’s only fitting.However, the hopefulness ends right there.Here’s some of the fundamental things I could tell you about this book:  - If you hate the writing of this series, you probably won’t like it still  - The swirling direction of the plot is
I had fond memories of the characters, and I thought it’s only fitting.However, the hopefulness ends right there.Here’s some of the fundamental things I could tell you about this book:  - If you hate the writing of this series, you probably won’t like it still 
- The author introduced a web of new plot, accompanied by new characters; it’s expected a lot of things are going to be sidelined, and forgotten 
I’m going to assume Ronan is mocking the way Henry speaks, the intonation or accent of his voice.
The gross thing, the author made it into an “inside joke” for pynch.This didn’t end right there.
The Raven King was marvelous in so many ways, but unsatisfactory in the most important.Maggie Stiefvater is a favourite author of mine because of reasons.
Thanks for being so clever and cruel, Maggie.The one big issue I have with the book, is the ending.
Anticipated for four books and more than a thousand pages and - exactly like Glendower - a let-down.Here comes the confusing part: Cabeswater dies, Gansey comes back to life.
Cabeswater reshapes, makes itself human, dies, brings Gansey back to life, not quite human, but alive.
Maggie Stiefvater gave me such a colorful set of characters and put them in a lovely and magical place.
I need more Gansey.And everyone else is pretty cool too.FINAL EMOTIONAL RAMBLINGS, OR “THOUGHTS”Usually when I finish a series I really love, I feel an overwhelming sadness and slump forever and never ever want to read anything again except more books in that series and then they DON’T EXIST which cue sadness again.
2.5/5 starsThis will be the last YA book I read for the year 2017.The Raven King, the final book in The Raven Cycle series sadly doesn’t live up to the quality that the series had established. It is in my opinion that this is the weakest of the series, there are some great moments for sure but at the same time, there’s too many problems I had with it.Picture: The Raven King by John Fenerov  “He was a book, and he was holding his final pages, and he wanted to get to the end to find out how it wen
Absolutely nothing, just like Henry Cheng’s purpose in the series.Why in the world would Maggie thought it would be a good idea to have a completely new character appeared in the last book and have him included as the main character is something I will never understand.
It’s just that if you remove him from the story, it wouldn’t affect the story whatsoever and the fact that he had more spotlight than Noah, one of the main characters since the first book doesn’t really help the pacing of the book.The worst part is, I’m pretty sure that Henry’s useless story itself took almost 200 pages in total.
*before reading*So many Gansey x Blue shippers on this page. Such basic taste. I can't even. Apparently, ya'll never heard of Pynch.  #DealWithItLet's chant together PYNCH! PYNCH! PYNCH! *after reading*I am a mess and I need some time to process everything but here are my initial thoughts about The Raven King:- This book is about Gansey being a special snowflake who's only worry in life is to avoid bees. haha - Blue got lost in this story and she didn't have any memorable scenes(that I can think
*after reading*I am a mess and I need some time to process everything but here are my initial thoughts about The Raven King:- This book is about Gansey being a special snowflake who's only worry in life is to avoid bees.
haha - Blue got lost in this story and she didn't have any memorable scenes(that I can think of)- Ronan is flawless and so is everything he touches including Chainsaw, Orphan Girl(YAAAS Pynch daugher), his car and ahem,ahem...
I'm including Blue and Gansey in this wish just so no one comments about me only caring about Pynch.
But I was enjoying the way that falling in love with Maura and becoming something like a father figure to Blue was drawing him out of a life of crime and back into the real world.
And no matter what way you swing it, no matter how you try to reason that Blue loves Gansey and the Raven boys so much that she wants to disregard her nature, she's focussed on their quest, they keep her grounded because she's loves them so much, the day you find out you're not human is still a big fucking deal.
1.) The Raven Boys ★★★★★2.) The Dream Thieves ★★★★★3.) Blue Lily, Lily Blue ★★★★★  “He was a book, and he was holding his final pages, and he wanted to get to the end to find out how it went, and he didn't want it to be over.”  This is truly a once in a lifetime series. If Harry Potter was my childhood, The Raven Cycle was my 20's. This series was perfect for me, and I don't think anyone could break the spell that this series and these characters have cast upon me.   “They were both hungry anima
I'm eternally grateful to Maggie Stiefvater and her words that somehow penetrated my heart and built this perfect story.I'm writing this review in actual tears, because this story is so beautiful and means so much to me.
I really don't have any words that I can string together to do a review for The Raven King justice; I'll just say that it changed me forever, I'm eternally grateful to have had this reading experience, and that I'll never forget it.
Thank you, Maggie Stiefvater.Blue, Gansey, Adam, Ronan, and Noah all have a piece of my heart that I will never get back.
The rest of the book, however, is just as well-written as the rest of the series.And as the saying goes, the rest is meh.•Cabeswater and chapter 67.(view spoiler)[So, let me sum it up: Gansey is dead and the others think to bring him back to life sacrificing Cabeswater's life.
(hide spoiler)]•The boatload of secondary characters.(view spoiler)[This may sound impossible and hilarious (which it actually is), but we don't know a single thing about them.
(hide spoiler)]•The fifth Raven Boy (or you know what, let's call him fourth) and the former fourth one.(view spoiler)[Henry Cheng is cute.
“Stiefvater, please, I just want … ” (view spoiler)[That part? THAT PART? That part made me SO happy that it earn 10 stars. Yes. TEN. I already gushed and gushed and gushed about Ronan in my reviews for the previous books so I'm going to try and be more, well, to the point, let's say. If I can. Which is absolutely not sure at all, given that it's the last time I'll get to talk about him. *GASP* Okay, okay, I'm refraining my inner fangirl........ NOW. ANYWAY. I always loved Ronan because for me
I lived for his chapters in The Raven King while they were like annoying bugs I wanted to crush in The Raven Boys (sorry, bug).
Don't get me wrong, The Raven King gave me what I wanted - what I needed - with Adam and Ronan, and I would be lying if I said that the step back Blue and Gansey's relationship took had an impact on my reading experience.
Truth is, Ronan's always been my favorite, but never before did I want to SKIP Gansey's and Blue's chapters.
Hands down the most satisfying conclusion to a series I've ever read (next to Deathly Hallows).I absolutely loved it and I'm not over it. I don't think I'll ever be over it. It was perfect. Absolutely perfect.
NOAH CZERNYHE WAS A KINGTHAT'S ALL THERE IS.
HAPPY WITH THE ENDING.
The bad things that happened in the last book made me sad and I didn't know what was going to happen here.
Yes, there are some sad things happen in this book.
I will always love the Raven Boys and Blue and the women at 300 Fox Way. I think of them as the Raven Women.
Falling in love with all of them." All of them really meant all of them: 300 Fox Way, the boys, Jesse Dittley.
--->EXCERPT<---Cabeswater had taken so long to come to his aid.
I think that anyone that hasn't read these books to give them a try.
He was a book, and he was holding his final pages, and he wanted to get to the end to find out how it went, and he didn't want it to be over. I am fairly certain there will never be anything quite like this series.The story. The mystery. The magic. The characters. The romance. The  friendship . *clutches heart*There are books I like. There are books I love. And then there’s The Raven Cycle. Words always escape me when I try to explain it, because I feel like no description can fathom how beauti
—————Ahh, where to begin.First of all, I think this was the scariest book of the series––firstly because I was so scared for the characters, but also it had some of the most disturbing scenes/imagery:• Noah getting possessed by the demon and trying to gauge Blue’s eyes out• Adam getting possessed by the demon and not being able to control his eyes/hands (and trying to kill Ronan––nooooo!)• Ronan almost getting “unmade”• Geez there was a really high body count in this book: Aurora, Neeve, Greenmantle, Piper, Gansey (sort of??).
The messages and characters will stay with me for a very long time, perhaps forever.In short: I love these characters and their never-ending complexity, I love Maggie’s writing style that is simultaneously odd and familiar (also, her freaking dialogues are ON POINT), I love the setting that came to life in my mind, I love the intricacy of the plot with its foreshadowing and miniscule pieces falling into place, I love the character development that is some of the best I’ve ever seen, I love that this series is so unique and not afraid to be different.
not enough squash song
I'm absolute TRC trash I'm not going to even deny it anymore. Best fucking series I have ever read. The end. FULL REVIEW TO COME.  The most metaphorically vividly decadent series that I have ever read. Yes, that is the only horrible sentence I can come up with to encapsulate my brimming feelings, as of right now. Stiefvater makes words tangible and they just reach straight into me and squeeze whatever life I have out. A delectable and palpable treat for the mind. And god, the Fisker love is re
Best fucking series I have ever read.
FULL REVIEW TO COME.
The most metaphorically vividly decadent series that I have ever read.
Yes, that is the only horrible sentence I can come up with to encapsulate my brimming feelings, as of right now.
Stiefvater makes words tangible and they just reach straight into me and squeeze whatever life I have out.
(This below was the Jess that lived prior to TRK) The only thing keeping my heart together, right now, is the fact that Richard Gansey III still lives and breathes.
I'm rather fond of my heart.
Don't break it, Stiefvater.
Some of the characters and plots achieve perfect closure and their development was everything I hoped for and more.But some things still feel really unresolved?
-	It’s a well-established fact he’s my favorite, but in case you couldn’t tell—HE’S MY FAVORITE AND I LOVE HIM A LOT.-	Has a perfect, well-developed character-arc with fantastic resolution.-	Seriously.
-	I don’t actually have a lot to say about Noah, but there's focus on him as a character instead of a plot device (though there's certainly plot) and I felt like he finally deserved his own thing.-	His ending was super abrupt and never talked about.Others-	No resolution for any of the women at Fox Way. I guess once they stop being useful, we're just supposed to forget them?-	No resolution for The Gray man.
at the end.
i finally made it.
so everyone make way for the raven king.
but beyond that, i dont have much to add.
as desperate as i am to say this made my life complete, im only left feeling just a little bit underwhelmed.
i dont think it helped that the ending confused me beyond belief.
but where the plot became lost for me, the characters totally made up for it.
i dont regret the time spent on these books, i just really wish it hadnt ended on such a meh feeling for me.
