https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9489.Devil_s_Embrace
Look, I usually carp at heroes that are sensitive metrosexuals in centuries past, but I'm not all that fond of dead mother-loving, kindergarten-aged daughter-obsessing control freaks either.But Cassie feels her body respond because Anthony is such a peerless lover and she thinks she's an immoral whore and, as far as I can tell, sort of resigns herself to him.
Dear Cassie,So Edward doesn't remember that you don't like tea!
Coulter did pull out some "it's not as bad as you think!" asides to explain away Anthony's seemingly stalker habits ("I stopped loving your mother.
And this is why, in my abject misery, I strive to discern its meaning; I knew from the very instant when she shot the hero, and didn't reload, that her usefulness and entertainment factor was at its end for me.Generally in most bodice-ripper pieces, we're accustomed to the hero's unruly antics--torture tactics and control management, but I've found it's mostly a product of revenge.
It really adds insult to injury, because the hero started off in this mindset, and never really purged himself of its vulgar ideology..or perhaps the author assumes the reader isn't capable of discerning the revenge-driven plot actions to that of actions manifested on the hero's own accord for the heroine's own good and well-being.....Book #2...
Yes, the heroine was a simpering mess and made some pretty lame choices.That being said, I still enjoyed this book.
It was degrading, unbelievable, and made me want to beat every character.
Yet, I found myself not wanting to put this book down.
In true bodice-ripper fashion there is love, kid-napping, adventure, villians, exotic locations and in the end a happy ending (if you like the kidnap, rape, seduce, beat, rape, seduce, escape, chase after you, but I love you anyway sort of thing) It was an entertaining read and that's all I can ask for in a book.
No, thank you.After the gang rape I kind of fast forward through reading this :/It did start off kind of interestingly wild, childhood love, kidnapping, and drama lama but as it approached the half way point it started to drag and the last half just wasn't interesting.
Our supposed hero Anthony doesn't really make an appearance, except to kidnap and then rape the heroine, he mostly hangs around waiting for the heroine to agree to marry him.
There wasn't even any wild fun shipwrecks or the heroine picking up a sword, although she does shoot hero at one point; it was lacking the wild kookiness dramatic flare that brings me back to these old bodice rippers.
Didn't like it all that much" *ducks back down*but you know what...I happened to enjoy this story very much.
And I don't care.And to all you readers who are ashamed to like this story,because you should never be ashamed about what you enjoy to read.
Read whatever you want, just as long as you keep reading!I in no way agree with the way our main male protagonist, the earl, went about in seducing Cassandra.
She does actually get raped (in this instance not by the earl), which I believe is one of the negative things other readers are talking about in the book.
The big fat jerk anti-hero remains smug and arrogant throughout the story with nary a groveling moment for all the crappy stuff he has put the heroine through.
All the juicy and well-deserved revenge stuff is kind of swept aside at the end and happens "offstage", recounted to the hero in a letter.
(view spoiler)[In the opening of the book, we have the hero swoop down and kidnap the heroine from her sailboat on the very eve of her wedding, and keep her captive on his ship which he has named after her.
I'm sure I will read books worse than this, but at this point, I can't remember being as angry about a novel than I am right now.
Here's how it started: Someone mentioned bodice rippers, and I felt the need to read one.
I know that a lot of 80ies noves were attempts to get agency back over our experiences with sexual assault and rape and that a lot of authors explored those themes in sometimes unhealthy ways, etc etc.
I don't give a fuck, this was bad and made me angry and reading other reviews makes me pretty sure that not all bodice rippers are this fucking toxic.
I unapologetically loved this book.
There's kidnapping, rape, gang rape, psychological abuse, stalking, etc.
I found Anthony to be a kind of fun-loving stalker as opposed to Sean Culhane in Stormfire who was just a serious pyscho.
I mean, after he initially beds the heroine against her will, he turns into a charmer of sorts.
The plot goes quickly, I read it in two evenings.
Read it for the incredulous expression you'll have on your face alone.
There were countless "Holy sh*t" moments for me where I just could not believe how the heroine could be so thick.
"Cassie, I kidnapped you for your own good!
Too many triggers for me (view spoiler)[ h is gang raped. had sex with OM after H. Creepy H (hide spoiler)]
*sigh* No redemptive qualities in either of them.
:)Then again, I didn't particularly like the heroine, either.
She was a simpering wimpy girl, and not the spitfire heroine I would have preferred, even if she shot a pistol in the book.
I have to agree with the authors of Beyond Heaving Bosoms who on page 77 admitted that the character of Anthony Welles was a character who was an "alphahole hero we'd like to slap around some".
I'm not sure who could possibly think that this hero had redemptive qualities, and the heroine's ex-fiance was not any better himself.
Maybe it's because I married my husband at the ripe old age of twenty, keep in mind my dshing hero in real life is sixteen years my senior.
I like a good abduction, don't mind a rape or whatever the more drama and chaos usually the better I like it but Devil's Embrace wasn't anything special, to me.I see why the Ladies love and hate Anthony, yes his ego was large and in charge, hmmph, and yes he was one of the most self entitled men but really was he all that bad or just stubborn and deseprate to have his own way at the cost of all others?
SPOILER IN THIS REVIEW!!I just finished my reread of this book, which I would not have done if not for the BHB challenge!
So I knew about the abduction and rape - what a wonderful lover!
(Just in case you didn't recognize it, that was sarcasm!!) - and the gang rape that comes later, and really expected those events to negate everything else.
That said, I'm surprised at how much I enjoyed the rest of the book.
Setting aside the rapes (which it's impossible to do), this would have been a weak 4*, so I'm giving it a weak 3*
Romance? More like a study of Stockholm Syndrome!A truly disgusting and twisted story. I though the so called 'hero' was the villain until I skipped to the end.
ONE ENTHRALLING ROMANCE! I COULD NOT PUT IT DOWN! This was Coulter’s first long historical romance, published in 1985, and it is a superbly written, heart stopping, action-filled story that I could not put down. Literally. I do not recommend you begin it in the evening as I did. That night I did not sleep until nearly dawn. Forget the low reviews, and set aside your 21st century sensibilities and go with what may be one of the most enthralling romances I’ve read in a long time. Certainly it’s a
Forget the low reviews, and set aside your 21st century sensibilities and go with what may be one of the most enthralling romances I’ve read in a long time.
Certainly it’s a classic that affected the genre of historical romance—and well worth the read just for that!Set in the late 18th century (I estimate 1775-76), it tells the story of highborn 18-year-old Cassie Brougham, who on the day before her marriage to a Viscount she has loved for years, is abducted by 34-year-old Anthony Wells, the Earl of Clare, who has been watching her since she was a child all the while believing she is his perfect mate.
The 30 year old Earl of Clare falls in love with the 14 year old Cassandra because he had a teenage infatuation with her pregnant mother.
On page 62, Anthony says "I won't hurt you, Cassandra, you know that." just before he ties her to the bedposts and rapes her while she cries.
So kind and loving.Well, I'm done - I made it to page 86.
I don't have a problem with difficult subjects like an older man falling in love with a child, kidnap and rape but the whole, 'I love you, I'm raping you for your own good' and the worst bodice ripping flowery language you can conceive of is just too much for me.
I did not read the entire book.
I like dark heroes but I do not like rape- that was when I stopped reading, when I realized that the author was going to have them end up together.
It would have been a better book if the author had explored it from that point of view.
His reaction was way too extreme, in my opinion.
I usually base my opinions of romance on my reaction to the hero no matter how irritating a heroine might be.
This hero repulsed me, ergo the book repulsed me.
I'm embarrassed to say that I enjoyed it considering that the heroine is basically raped by the hero and then comes to love him (yeah right), but I guess all that smutty manga I've read has affected my brain.
After reading Shinjo Mayo's work (Haou Airen mainly), this sort of book doesn't give me much pause.
Other than the fact that he forces himself upon her (yeesh), he's a pretty typical hero; domineering, arrogant, handsome, charming, totally obsessed with her, etc.
A lot of the book passes in his yacht The Cassandra, and then in Genoa.
I read and loved The Duke (seriously, one of my faves from childhood, right), so, when in adulthood I took up this book (bought and frakking paid for) thinking 'Yay another Catherine Coulter Historical, Yay', imagine my consternation and downright disapprobation at what turned out to be a gruesome (if only for the squalid quality of the writing) GANG-rape scene in the middle of an already mediocre (I am feeling awfully meritorious tonight) book.
I NEVER expected that, and it remains my biggest gripe about this book.
You know what, I recant that star.
I still love The Duke though, that, I reread every year.
In fact, the beginning of the book started from the perspective of the OM (other man), as befits a true bodice-ripper epic.
Anthony Welles is, in modern historical romance, a hunk of the first order.
To give the author credit, Anthony Welles was pretty single-minded.
At one point, Cassie was captured by Anthony's enemies and gang-raped.
Then she somehow gains momentum again and escapes to the US to find Edward.Again Coulter strode a fine line.
At some point, I felt she made Edward to be (suddenly) not that chivalrous for the purpose of putting Anthony in a better light.
Yes, Anthony kidnaps, rapes, and beats Cassandra...but it's not a story about a sadistic man who LIKES to inflict pain upon women.
It's the story of a man in love who intends to properly court a woman during her first season in London.
And the one time he does beat her, he doesn't really want to do it...she disobeys his orders on his ship and she assumes she will be punished after he scolds her and actually urges him to 'get it over with.' Despite having kidnapped Cassandra, Anthony treats her kindly and tries to earn her affection.
First and foremost, the research and writing style is tight.
Ms. Coulter has done her research in what was appropriate for the time period in regards to clothes, furnishings, and what not.
The dialogue also flows well - I loved the arguments between Cassie and her kidnapper.However, what keeps this novel from reaching a 5-star is the premise of the forced bride.
(sarcasm) No matter how many times she begged for modesty or to be left alone, he simply had to press on.
Between the good writing style and fun dialogue, and the whole 'now I love my kidnapper/abuser' thing, this book earns 3 stars.
This was the book that got me reading romance; at first I was embarraced by the content but then I became intrigued how a man much older than the heroine could induce her to love him when she loved another man.
He raped her and at first she hated him but she grew to love him even though he held her captive.
Eventually she became reaquainted with the man she had loved before and found he was not what she expected.
There is a scene during the book when Cassie is brutally raped by some evil men but she survives and all ends well.
Devil... #1? Oh, god, this is a series?
Read all you need to know about this squick-making Rape-A-Rama with overtones of pedophilia in the splendid review by Karla (Mossy Love Grotto). She 'splains things.
Coulter then does her very best to convince the reader that Anthony is hot and not old, so much so I judge Cassandra's powers of perception.
Sweeping aside Anthony’s infatuation with Cassandra’s mom (seriously, how old is Anthony) because all romance novels get one pass from the reader, Anthony has been grooming Cassandra to be his wife since she has been a minor and that is a tough pill to swallow.
Cassandra tries very hard, along with the reader, to reconcile this new and horrifying information with her love of Anthony in the final act of the novel.
it was eh.
I'm not a big fan of the whole I-have-to-rape-you-so-you'll-fall-in-love-with-me thinking.
Wouldn't it make more sense to just kidnap the girl, hold onto her for a few months and let her actually fall in love with you (not your penis) and then have sex with her?
While talking about having he heroine watch someone being lashed in her place… "She called me a braying ass not long ago.
Under no circumstances would I do anything so reprehensible." "Ye abducted a lady, my lord, against her will."Yeah, Scargill alone brought the book up to 2 stars, but the lack of a plot nearly dropped it back down.
It would have been easier, I think, to know that Cassandra didn't want to marry him than to believe she loved him and that Anthony was keeping her from him, no matter how it turns out in the end.
I really think Coulter took it too far when Cassandra is abducted yet again and brutally raped by four men.Part of me wants to like this book because I didn't actually mind the parts on the ship after Anthony has taken her to be his bride but so much after that was hard to swallow and read.I didn't hate the book.
The book starts out, young wonderful, spirited heroine is going to marry the man she's loved since she was eight.
I start to wonder how we're going to have a book here.
Then, in Chapter 5, the heroine is kidnapped by a man much, much older than she, 35--I'm not saying this is old.
To make matters worse, he rapes her.
Rapes her and basically expects her to get over it.
I usually love Coulter and I wish they wouldn't rerelease things that have themes that were disgusting when they were written and are best left in the past.
I love Coulter.
anthony, jatuh cinta ama ibunya heroine-cassandra..
yaiks,, cassandra masi berumur 5 th pas itu..!!after years passed by,, trnyata cassandra jatuh cinta ama her childhood friends - edward, n they decided to marry..
n dy bener2 yakin klo cassandra emg his soul mate, n bakal jatuh cinta ama dy (rada sinting)n like any other kidnapping case in history romance, adegan sex hero n heroine, dr yg awalnya no-no-no, jd yes-yes-yes..btw..
adegan sadis d novel ini bener2 graphic..
ga diceritain gmana si anthony solved the problem or gmana emosian nya cassandra..
