https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/117454.The_Joy_of_Music
(There are some small differences between the book transcripts and the TV programs, such as substituted pieces of music here and there.) A 4-DVD set of the programs was also produced in 2010, ISBN 141723265X.Omnibus Bernstein: Beethoven's Fifth Symphony (33:37)Bernstein, at the piano both talking and playing, and conducting The Symphony of the Air behind him, uses Beethoven's discarded sketches from the Fifth Symphony to show why the final versions Beethoven decided on were the best.http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xQ6G2Z...Omnibus Bernstein: The World of Jazz (45:43)"Can you do the mambo?
"Let's modify the dynamics so we can hear these two poor little flutes play." After lots of examples of Bach from the piano, he concludes with snippets and explanations of the Saint Matthew Passion, with full chorus.http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fukTsx...Omnibus Bernstein: What Makes Opera Grand?
[4-5+ stars] I particularly enjoyed Bernstein’s analyses of the music of J.S. Bach, contemporary classical composers, Beethoven’s 5th, and Jazz.
I also enjoyed his thoughts on film scoring and his chapter on conducting.
Half of the pages contain musical scores, and Bernstein doesn’t avoid jumping into conversations on chord structures, compositional forms, and stylistic specifics.
Fun, fun!If you don’t have time to read the whole book and would like to read the best parts, read these chapters:Beethoven’s Fifth SymphonyThe World of JazzIntroduction to Modern MusicThe Music of Johann Sebastian Bach.
Witty and insightful guide into some of the deeper meanings of music. The music scores added to the experience, especially when I decided to play the relevant pieces on Youtube, or something similar. Good stuff.
this book was written for the non-musician, but musicians of all ages and experiences would benefit from a read, too. LB taps into diff classical areas -- jazz, modern music, bach, opera (just to name a few) -- in a way only a conductor can, maybe in a way only LB can. i got my mind blown during his overtones discussion. does every other musician know this? --> that overtones gave us the notes to build the common chord and the pentatonic scale? whaaaaat. music is amazing.
i remember the first time i read this, especially the first imaginary conversation he has with himself (over Beethoven). i felt like someone punched me in the gut. in a very, very good way. i just knew *exactly* what he was talking about. one of my favorite books of all time.
Even if you have no background in music (ESPECIALLY if you don't) the way Leonard Bernstein discusses music in various forms will give you a deeper understanding and greater appreciation of the medium.
I admittedly can't read music very well (even with singing lessons and three years of trombone), but I still "read" the music that appears throughout and was able to at least understand the movement and flow of the pieces he discusses.
A wonderful piece on Bernstein's thoughts on music.
I thoroughly enjoyed the written pieces.
For those that don't play an instrument, just use youtube to help you along with the music piece.
I found it amazing that so many of the thoughts that he had about the composers are identical to what my impressions are.
It was re-assuring to know that I'm on the right track.
Of course, Bernstein articulates better than I ever could.I adore his comments on Bach.
I don't love Beethoven like he does, but I definitely have a new appreciation that I would not have had before.
A very accessible look into the world of classical music.
Leonard Bernstein, one of America's greatest conductors, composers, and music educators, helps us to see why he loves Bach, opera, and Beethoven, and why we should care.
The majority of the book is a series of transcripts from his 1950's era TV show "Omnibus," complete with score excerpts for those who can read music (it doesn't really take away all that much if you can't though).
There are a lot of books about why certain music is so great, but many of them are either full of warm and fuzzy crap, useless facts, or only accesible to musicians.
I found this gem at Thrift Town, and ended up reading it in one sitting (including time at the piano)! I learned so much from it. I wish I could have seen these TV programs when they came out. Bernstein would have had a fabulous blog, if he'd had time to blog.
This book is a collection of essays, adapted mostly from TV performances Bernstein did in the 1950s and 60s.
The problem with it in book-form is that, when it comes to the musical examples, you need to be a pretty good reader of music to interpret them (on the TV show, he just played them).
I have some basic music-reading skills, but the score sections in the book were above my level, and I ended up skipping them.It's a pity, because he does have some interesting things to say, and you can pick up a certain amount of this from the text.
Following these two great composers, Bernstein talks about music forms.Ultimately one must simply ply accept the loving fact that people enjoy listening to organized sound (certain organized sounds, anyway); that this enjoyment can take the form of all kinds of responses from animal excitement to spiritual exaltation; and that people who can organize sounds so as to evoke the most exalted responses are commonly called geniuses.Science can "explain" thunderstorms, but can it "explain" the fear with which people react to them?
I so wish we had a contemporary who was communicating about music the way Bernstein did. This book includes scripts from his telecasts, which I need to find if they're online somewhere. Really enjoyed it.
the book is really fantastic
excellently well
There he lies a mediocre melodist, a homely harmonist, an iterant riveter of a rhythmist, an ordinary orchestrator, a commonplace contrapuntist!...Form is only an empty word, a shell, without this gift of inevitability; a composer can write a string of perfectly molded sonata-allegro movements, with every rule obeyed, and still suffer from bad form.
Beethoven broke all the rules, and turned out pieces of breathtaking rightness.
Rightness- that's the word!
Our boy has the real goods, the stuff from Heaven, the power to make you feel at the finish: Something is right in the world.
Bernstein has such a way of making the complex seem common and simple.
It's for these reasons that I give this book a five.
To be honest, I didn't learn much from the book, as I've taken far too many music classes.
I don't necessarily disagree with another reviewer that this book is slightly dated.
It's not like Bernstein is alive to update it.
The book is exactly what it says it is, transcripts to televised broadcasts.
It's refreshing to see how such a brilliant man can make music so relatable.
The Joy of Music, through, exemplifies why Bernstein was loved by America.
a wonderful read for any lover of music.
bernstein obviously has an in-depth understanding of all of the wide range of subjects, but like the great communicator he was is able to deliver ideas and examples that anyone can understand.
that being said, there's a fair amount of written music in the book, so not being able to read music might take away from the experience slightly (but not enough, in my mind, to dissuade you from reading it).
the last few chapters are transcripts (with pieces added) of bernstein's tv show from the 50s, which i'm now dying to find and see.
This is a perfect book for music lovers. Bernstein was a talented and entertaining showman. I could only imagine what it would have been like to take a course from him. He doesn't hold back from some of the esoteric topics in music theory, but instead delves into them, unconvinced that the layman is too limited to understand them. He does this all without seeming to talk down to people. If you're a music lover, musician or student, this book seems essential. Thank you, L.B.
This collection of essays is valuable mostly because of Bernstein's infectious excitement about classical music; hence, the title, I suppose. It's not very academic, but he has some unique insights and perspectives on music history and aesthetics. The transcripts of his TV shows, at the end of this collection, are a little pointless, as they refer constantly to the episode's musical excerpts. Overall, I recommend it to classical-music lovers, Bernstein fans in particular.
Focuses more on the music, talks less about the joy:"The only way one can really say anything about music is to write music."And then he goes on to write about music for 250 pages. Includes "Imaginary Conversations" in the form of dialogues, television scripts, magazine articles, lots of sheet music, and even little illustrations of composer figurines in action.
I remember that this book made me understand a whole lot more about music when I read this as a youngster. I should probably read it again. Before reading this, I thought most 12 tone music was completely unintelligible, but Bernstein explains the musical development through the history in an eye-opening fashion.
It's a transcription of his telecasts, and the transcriptions are so dry without the musical examples. There were only a few bits of writing toward the beginning the I enjoyed. I tried to find recordings of the works referenced in the rest to make it more relevant, but it was difficult at times.
It's a little hard to rate a book that's a collection of different articles. The one on Bach would certainly get a four, but some of the others only a two. :) There's some very good material here--the chapter on the music of Bach is amazing.
Great Book including really funny and understandable definitions of various types of music.Must get the Omnibus TV shows somewhere to put the music to the words, but the words alone are great reading.
Amazing insights and a treat to read reasonable music analysis, not emotional "wine" reviews. I learned a lot and now want to go find the videos. Bernstein was an amazing force. Didn't quite make me want to listen to opera but Bach deserves some more of my time.
This is an amazing book for a music lover of any kind. Bernstein makes you look at music in new ways that give you a better understanding of the music and better ways to articulate that understanding.
A strange but wonderful collection of short writing about music and its enjoyment.
Very difficult to get anything out of if you don't already read music.
try
A collection of ideas/conversations/tv transcripts from Leonard Bernstein about different areas of music. Some were very insightful and some weren't as inspiring.
