https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10997.The_Basic_Eight
The "Basic Eight" are a group of teenage friends. Flannery Culp is our neurotic narrator. The novel is about love and murder and friendship in high school. This review of THE BASIC EIGHT features my very own Basic Eight from Los Alamitos, Orange County. Photos circa 1988.KEY WORDS:REALISTIC ☻ PRIVILEGE ☻ SARCASM ☻ SAN FRANCISCOUNREALISTIC ☻ PRETENSION ☻ FRIENDSHIP☻Jeff: On a technical level the novel is somewhat impressive, given that it is a first novel from a novice author. I enjoyed the dark,
But honestly, a lot of the book annoyed me, it wasn’t “laugh-out loud” funny, it was more of the sarcastic sort of humor that Marcy & Mark like so much and I think that kind of humor gets boring after a while, just the same sarcastic tone of voice over and over again, constant sarcasm which is really just being mean disguised as being funny.
That they could have even enjoyed high school at all – people who weren’t like him and his friends must have been completely miserable, right?
Karen may disagree with this theory, but I came up with it while reading The Basic Eight and I'll expound on it here.
This book is part of the Secret History tradition of contemporary literature.
Look up Karen's "Like Secret History" shelf for more examples.
The obvious reason why books are continually being compared to Secret History is that it's a pretty successful comparison.
I think some writers are anti-social people who have to have suffered some kind of social trauma in their younger days.
Karen for some reason disagrees, but what does a former Prom Queen know about this kind of stuff anyway?
How do I love "The Basic Eight"? Let me count the ways. I love the delicious untrustworthiness of the narrator. I love the cheerfully horrifying violence. I love the snarky questions for the reader at the end of each chapter, textbook-style, that don't just remake the points but cleverly further the plot. I love the dizzying revelations at the end and I love the physical descriptions of the clothes, the disastrous party, the drunkenness. I think I'll go read it again right now.
Dark, devious and intoxicating. This book pulled me in with some sort of twisted, magnetic force, until it was 2 AM and I realized I had finished it in one go. Full review to come.
You've got (1) traditional diary-style storytelling, (2) annotations at the original time of writing (i.e. Flannery giving her friend her journal instead of telling her a story and then stopping and saying, wait, I'm only writing this now, that won't work), (3) annotations during the editing process, (4) entire anecdotes added in and acknowledged as dramatized (i.e. a scene in which her friend gives her a ride and they argue briefly about their group's new nickname - The Basic Eight - and then Flannery gets out of the car and tells you that she walked to school that day, but she knows a conversation like that happened at some point, and this seemed like as good a place as any to include it), (5) conversations repeated word-for-word, between different characters (actually my favorite part of the book - Flan talks to Adam, and then repeats the conversation with Gabriel, this time taking Adam's role - it's identical, down to the descriptions of expressions and such), (6) open acknowledgement of all of it!
What I love about this more than THE SECRET HISTORY is that the characters in THE BASIC EIGHT feel so real, like they're really speaking from the pages to me.
I closed the book with a sense of awe and loved it not really because of the twist, but because of how everything tied in together - the writing, style, characters, plot - in a really complete kind of way that shows the author's efforts and mastery.
seriously what the actual fuck
Before I read this, I thought it might be like the movie Heathers (not that I've seen it).
It's his first novel for adults and despite this being about high school kids, it's definitely for adults (and maybe the oldest of teens).I like the not-subtle-at-all skewering of pop-TV-psychologists, and the narrator's merging of the past of her journal entries with the present as she 'revises' it for publication.
To say what else I like (and what other book/movies I thought of) would give too much away.
This book had me thinking back to the film Heathers (1988). Comedic, darkly surreal and utterly unforgettable, The Basic Eight is as lovable as it is morbid.
It was so pretentious (the narrator constantly corrected her sentences ending in a preposition.
There were digs at the reader's intelligence and ejaculations of "Dear reader!" (that only works in like, classic novels).
The Satanic thing, as well as the absinthe thing, was talked about throughout the entire book, yet ended up being really downplayed.
The characters meant to represent real life people had annoying and stupid names like "Winnie Moprah." Lastly, are there really high school students wearing suits to school and throwing dinner parties?
Ugh. I just couldn't find anything to enjoy about this book.
Poorly written, thinly-veiled satire of my high school. A friend claimed that this was brilliant, so I slogged through it.
This book was a thoroughly enjoyable 4-star read to begin with.
Fun characters, dark humor, deliciously written sentences.
This kind of thing: "Natasha arrived, bearing cleavage and brie, and immediately fell into a squabble with Gabriel over how to bake it properly.
'Isn't that what they do to milk?'"Anyway, all of this would have been pleasant enough, plus something something metafictional whatever, and THEN you get to the very end, which throws a remarkable wrench in the works that forces you to rethink everything about what you've read.
Seriously, I went back to the beginning and reread a few chapters just to make sure.
Such a pleasant surprise of a book.
So if I had read this in high school I can guarantee you it would have been my favorite book at the time.
It is an incredibly mean spirited high school drama with a sick twist, revolving around a clique of outcast/precocious/uppity/self-involved intellectuals, much like myself (or the self I thought of myself as) in high school.
I'm willing to bet in less than 2 years, this turns into the next "Mean Girls".
Mark my words, it will happen- or a similar casting anyway.Fans of Lolita and/or coming of age/high school genre will dig this.
SHIT
Both Ms. Tartt, especially Ms. Tartt, and Marisha Pessl are not only better writers, but they both are far superior in execution of a story.Not that 'The Basic Eight' lacks merit.
I thought the execution was rather clumsy.
I think if this had been a bit more streamlined, it would improve and elevate the story.
My much bigger problem is the dialogue.
I think Mr. Handler did not channel a female teenager very believably.
This is a problem.
This made the ending lack the punch I am sure the author intended.
It's obvious that this is a first novel. If you've read any of the Lemony Snicket books, you'll see where they came from. Despite its gimmicky plot, horribly precocious teenagers, and its overall grimness, I found myself entranced and enchanted about this book. The Basic Eight are who I wished I was in high school (hell, I wish I were like any of them now), and they're painted with an alternatingly endearing and maddening world-weary hopelessness but with just enough innocence to be likable.
It took me a little bit to get into this book, and after I got about half way I couldn’t put it down.
It was intense, interesting, and dark.
This book will blow your mind!
While reading it, I couldn’t figure out just how it was going to end, and then when the ending came I realized that I knew the ending all along!
Landta.
This book is doing things to my brain.
I can’t think properly.
I think I shouldn’t have read I am the Cheese right before this one.Rated: PG-18, this book has it all.
Sex, drugs, murder, violence, language.
when the unreliableness of the narrator is so blatantly clear but like... it's still so twisty. loved the characters. loved the style. love love lvoe. it was a delicious meal of a book.
This was fun to read, but not quite the most wonderful book you will read in your life, contrary to what many of the reviews on Amazon.com would like you to believe. If it  is  the most wonderful book you've ever read, might I suggest broadening your horizons?On the plus side:• The voice of the first-person narrator (and murderess), Flannery Culp, is irresistible - smart, irreverent, quirky (OK, maybe a little insane as well), and highly entertaining.• Handler is a good writer, and knows how to
If it  is  the most wonderful book you've ever read, might I suggest broadening your horizons?On the plus side:•	The voice of the first-person narrator (and murderess), Flannery Culp, is irresistible - smart, irreverent, quirky (OK, maybe a little insane as well), and highly entertaining.•	Handler is a good writer, and knows how to structure the story to keep your interest - you definitely want to keep reading to see how things turn out.
But Handler never mentions the parents, not even to explain their continued absence.So, in the end, it’s a nice little fantasy story.
It's similar to The Secret History- high school clique, someone they murdered, you read to find out how on earth and why it happened.
I enjoyed the format of Flan's diary, and I actually feel like I spent the weekend back in high school (except I didn't murder anyone in high school).
I am disappointed that the book just ended without explaining what happened to the other characters.
I didn't need a play by play, but it would have been nice to know a little more than Flan's journal hints at.
(At which Flan's journal hints).
Don't get me wrong, I loved many many parts of it, Flannery's unreliable POV is one of the most hilarious I've read and the pretentiousness of the gang was amazing to me, and most importantly I thought the whole style/conceit of the book was incredibly engaging and creative.
I had figured it out early on but thought there would be more to it than that?
A little more closure, at least, though maybe that was the point.It was a super enjoyable read though, one I highly recommend even though I myself am not as head over heels as everybody else.
She’ll share all the good, bad and ugly details – including a little tale of murder.
I don’t even know how this book made it to my “to read” list*.
I was completely thrown into the way-back machine with this one – it was reminiscent of “Heathers” (including a croquet scene, no less) and absolutely delightful.
So much fun and even adds an extra little twist as the cherry on the sundae.
Added it to my list when "Why We Broke Up" was recommended to me.
Why We Broke UP SUUUUUCCCCCKKKKKKEEEEED, The Basic Eight was fabulous.
Reads like a witty Christopher Pike novel (high schooly, murdery), but with Handler's beloved self-conscious presence in the narrative and with generous helpings of black humour. The story is related in a way that anyone who has woken up the morning after drinking far beyond their limit and begins frantically scanning their brain for possible horrors of the previous evening, which return to them in disconnected pictures, often with conversation or context erased... can disturbingly relate to. Really disturbingly.
'May we generally be happy, generally be witty, generally be honest, but above all always be interesting.'I've seen The Basic Eight described as Heathers meets The Secret History which fits this novel perfectly: it's messy, daring, genius. The main character was terrible; and that's part of why I loved it so much. I had a few small issues with the narration sometimes, and I might lower my rating just, but overall this was so good.(trigger warnings for (view spoiler)[sexual assault, body image, graphic depictions of violence (hide spoiler)])
As soon as I finished this book I turned back to the beginning and read it again. I loved it. It has all the silliness of A Series of Unfortunate Events, but reworked for an older crowd. Yeah, I knew what the twist was going to be long before it was revealed, but the reveal was still great.
This is SO close to being amazing. Parts of it really needed to come together better.
EVERYBODY. GO. READ. IT. NOW.
Like Special Topics' Blue, Flannery has a unique and sometimes confusing narrative voice; the book is made up of her old diaries, except she's constantly amending them as she goes along, so at certain points she will describe an incident and then admit that it didn't really happen at the time, but needed to be inserted to make a point or properly introduce a character.
It took until I was more than three-quarters of the way through for me to really feel compelled to keep reading, and because the date of the party - Halloween - is signposted throughout the book as the climax, and it's written in diary format, it does feel like a lot of what comes before this is just scene-setting.
In retrospect, I probably shouldn't have read this so soon after reading The Secret History.
I did not care for the proclaimed "cleverness" of the novel; on the contrary, I thought it was anything but.
It wasn't funny--and this is coming from someone who lives for sarcasm and dry humor--and although the whole unreliable narrator bit did have promise, it merely succeeded in aggravating me.
It's a messy novel, and I am aware that it never aims to be all neat and tidy, but it just wasn't my cup of tea.I think I've reached my quota of books about privileged white (minus Gabriel) kids.
"The croquet mallet was stuck in something wet and jagged, like a half-melon. I was unable to pull it out, even with both hands. My own breathing was wet and jagged too, misting in the dark. Tugging and tugging and finally giving up." Well, this is  The Basic Eight  by Daniel Handler. We can all go home now. I don't know what to rate this as I neither like nor dislike the story. I just thought it was a bit "messed up." Some people might also say that there's a plot twist when in reality there i
I don't know what to rate this as I neither like nor dislike the story.
Read this book if you want to find out the story behind how and why Flan became a "murderess." Among Flan's clique, however, she is closest to Natasha.
I actually kind of, liked it?
I think I might rate this 3/5 just because I liked the dark humor along with the creative idea behind this book.
There are other books out there waiting to be read so I'd rather not dwell on this one.
