https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30636.Miracles
Most people here on Goodreads will have had the experience of meeting an intelligent, witty, well-informed person who holds views that you absolutely do not agree with, but who defends them with imagination and force.
Well, reading Miracles was rather like that for me, which is why I'm prepared to give it three stars.
Lewis presents a defence of miracles which is imaginative and passionate; I think it's completely wrong, but I enjoyed watching him argue the case and mentally arguing back at each step.
I'm just sorry we couldn't meet in person.The rest of this review is available elsewhere (the location cannot be given for Goodreads policy reasons)
It began by stating that the writers had gathered together a group of the best minds, experts in their fields, to consider what, in fact, we really know about Jesus, the historical figure.The very first thing we can really say, according to this council of learned individuals, is that we must dismiss the miracles recounted in the Bible.
What kind of people, then, would say "As historians, the first thing to start with is the dismissing of all the miracles"?The truthful thing to say would be: "Speaking strictly historically, there is as much proof as we could reasonably expect for the events related in the New Testament, and nothing to disprove them.
Being an Christian apologist (a person who makes a defense in speech or writing of a belief, idea, etc), naturally, Lewis says that miracles cannot co-exist with Pantheism although untrained minds would easily fall prey that Universe (Nature) and God are one.
Ask me why this is important to Miracle and I will answer you that I do not know.Then in the last third of the book, Lewis talks about Old and New Creations.
I imagined this to be a less formal discussion on what miracles meant to Christians and maybe why God uses them, etc.This is a philosophy book.
This book uses logic and clear language to present a case for Divinity in general and the existence of the Supernatural.
It then describes how miracles are central to the Christian life, anchoring the core of Christianity on the Resurrection.This book addresses arguments I heretofore believed were very modern, proving that there truly isn't much new under the sun.
If you have ever felt like you needed to have a more lucid, intellectual grasp of the philosophy involved in discussing the existence of God, this is the perfect book for you.
I am trying to read through Lewis's Canon which is extremely fluid in places, not quite as canonized as Shakespeare. This book is pure Lewis. He takes a subject and logically works his way through it. We do not always understand what he is saying but he says it so well we do not care.I always feel sad while reading Lewis that he is dead and not sitting across from me at the Bird and the Baby.
Miracles is dense; more so than any Lewis book we’ve read this term.
And he does it all before the non-Christian knows what’s happened.It’s kind of like one giant narratio, in that way.
In each chapter, Lewis, with unimpeachable logic, writes in such a way as to get non-Christians to nod emphatically along with him until, all of a sudden, they are blindsided with a consequent truth.
Lewis is a defector from the non-Christian camp and knows all their movements.All you will find are clearly presented truths that, I’m sure, have left many readers confronted, bewildered, with the inescapable glory of God’s greatest miracle: the incarnation.
Excellent. Went through it again in March of 2016. Richer each time.
"Miracle" has become a dirty word in modern society.
People generally view miracles as being, by their very definition, things that cannot possibly occur; therefore, anyone who argues for their existence is demonstrably an idiot.
In this book, though, Lewis argues that miracles are only impossible so long as people consider Nature to encompass the entirety of all existence.
He then capably demonstrates that Nature actually doesn't, thereby opening up an extensive range of fascinating possibility.
Lewis argues that miracles likely operate on a different set of natural laws than what we are able to experience with our five senses.
Dense, complex and worth the read.I have been trying to finish this book for a long time. Finally I brought it with me on a train and read it to the end. The arguments and flow of logic are good but you really have to concentrate as you read to follow Lewis's thought process at points.I am curious what individuals who aren't Christian would think of this book. Anybody want to tell me?
Great book!
This book is Lewis walking through each argument against miracles and explaining why miracles are possible despire said arguments.Again, I do necessarily agree with everything but that's ok. This is still a good book, even though it is very hard to get through.Recommended 14+
And he argues similarly from human Reason, showing that it is either from Another, or it cannot be trusted since it is just randomly risen from the Everything.From here, he argues that since Reasoning and Morality have clearly been invasions into Nature (meaning, they come from outside, from Another), then can there be other things from this Other that come in, namely, miracles?Then he spends a chapter answering some weak and non-credible arguments people give in response to all this.
So when Jesus heals, he is doing something God does everyday, just, as Lewis said, “suddenly and locally.” (Brilliant stuff, isn’t it?).But the miracles of the New Creation show us something of the New Creation, or New Nature for the world, that is coming.
I hate to say that this was not my favorite C.S. Lewis book so far. Without a class discussion, I’m not sure I could have waded through half of the arguments Lewis brings up. It was intended for those who are skeptical of miracles, and that subject was definitely one that I have wondered about. I am a Latter-day Saint, and I believe in miracles. But I have always been under the impression that God would use natural laws to govern those miracles, and they are miraculous because we do not understa
But I have always been under the impression that God would use natural laws to govern those miracles, and they are miraculous because we do not understand them.
Lewis argues that miracles do not discredit the law of nature because nature still works after the miracle occurs.
God and nature work together.
Along with that point, Lewis makes another stab at those who believe that modern day thinkers are somehow smarter than people from “the olden days.” Miracles are just as believable today as they were a thousand years ago, the difference is most people simply disregard them.
I preferred taking a long time to sift through the material instead of rushing through, due to the heady concepts portrayed.Oftentimes, I forgot that he was specifically addressing the plausibility of miracles, so I cannot say for certain how well he defends their possibility in this book; I was more caught up in the gems of insight that littered the pages.
As always, his arguments and points are thought-provoking and even useful, but I know many people would find this book of his particularly hard to follow.Still, I would suggest it to anyone, even if they are entirely convinced of miracles.
Already one of my favorites of C.S Lewis' books.
This book is not about proving or disproving any specific miracle.
Everyday answers to prayer and other occurrences of what many of us might call "miracles" are not under discussion.
Towards the end he does discuss the topic of answers to prayer, and his explanation makes a lot of sense, even if it's a bit complicated.
I highly recommend this book to anyone wanting to explore the topic of the supernatural in general or miracles specifically.
I am not even going to try to sound like this book made complete sense to me.
I felt like I needed a PhD in philosophy and religious studies to wade through all of the arguments and off-chutes of arguments that C.S. Lewis makes in the case of miracles.
I came away impressed with his ability to get from point A to point Z in proving one main point, and then his ability to make sense of other religious beliefs along the way.
Tettpakket med visdom og gode tankerekker. Nesten så det blir for mye av det gode. Blir liksom ikke ferdig med boken etter å ha lest den én gang, så mulig den fortjener fem stjerner, men da må jeg lese den hvert fall én gang til.
This was a very difficult read for me but I'm glad that I was able to read it.
One of the most mocked aspects of the Christian faith is the existence of miracles.
In his book, Miracles, Lewis defended the logic of believing in such supernatural events.
On the issue of skepticism, Lewis argues that most of the extra-Biblical accounts of “miracles” are probably not actually miracles, though they certainly could be.At the end of the book, Lewis makes a distinction between a “miracle” and something that would be said to be predestined, or a work of “Providence”.
He points out that such acts of Providence are not miracles, but this doesn't mean that they are any less of an example of God's supernatural power.
It wasn't until he got into Christian miracles that I started getting bored.The problem is that he starting waxing lyrical.
This exists in such-and-such place too, naturally, so we can only expect God to do the same!" without realising that God made the rules.
It sounded like intellectual bogwash, to be honest.
It's when he talks about the Miracle of the New Creation.
Joy to the world, Jesus is recreating nature in some sort of snazzy new spaceworld!
It sounded to me like he was appealing to emotion (not consciously) rather than reason.
I guess it's a big deal to Christians though.
“It is a profound mistake to imagine that Christianity ever intended to dissipate the bewilderment and even the terror, the sense of our own nothingness, which come upon us when we think about the nature of things.
Many a man, brought up in the glib profession of some shallow form of Christianity, who comes through reading Astronomy to realize for the first time how majestically indifferent most reality is to man, and who perhaps abandons his religion on that account, may at that moment be having his first genuinely religious experience.
. Christianity does not involve the belief that all things were made for man.”
Finished it yet again! Wonderful book. While the title would make it seem like it's going to be a book on certain miracles, it really is a philosophical exploration of human knowledge. It is about how we see the world. It argues against naturalism/physicalism, the idea that the scientific outlook is the only rational outlook (There is only physical reality). It requires the reader to consider the special nature of his/her own acts of reasoning. I find it very persuasive. It is one of my favorite books.
I won't even pretend that I was able to follow Mr. Lewis as deeply into this subject as he was able to go but I do feel I came away from this book with an understanding of several concepts which I had not considered. For me hopefully this book is a seed that will grow after further contemplation. While the audiobook was very well done, I do feel I would have benefited more by reading the actual text.
Excellent book. Speaks to the issues of science/religion, nature, miracles, the new atheists, progressive Christianity, etc. If lots of people read this, lots of silly arguments would not be engaged!
This is my second or third time through. First read as a student in college years ago. This time it is making much more sense and I understand the issues much better. He anticipates what many critics of miracles are even now saying and answers them well.
This makes perfect sense to me.
Read for an undergraduate class in 2005, again on a C.S. Lewis binge in April 2014, and now again in March 2015 to teach. Five stars every time.
Finally finished! It was hard (which is why it took me so long) but good. It mostly made sense, and I think I mostly agreed with it. And it's C. S. Lewis. How can I not like it?
My favorite thing about this book is that it's ultimately a commentary on the character of God. This exploration of miracles gave me a better picture of the way we experience His presence and the ways He authors & interacts with the natural world.
A bit more philosophy heavy than some of Lewis' other books, but I really ended up enjoying the process of reading this one."Christ did not die for men because they were intrinsically worth dying for, but because he is intrinsically love, and therefore loves indefinitely.""At all costs therefore He must not be thought of as a featureless generality.
If He exists at all, He is the most concrete thing there is, the most individual.
This book holds some serious treasure in perspective and insight on the way Lewis views the world but you will have to get out your shovel and do some digging.
This book was slow at times and I didn’t agree with some of the points Lewis makes.
This being said I grow every time I read this man’s work and it’s always worth the read.
I feel like I’m lost while I’m reading until he guides me around a corner and completely blows my mind with the finish of his statement.
This book was challenging to read and more apologetic than I was expecting but worth it.
