https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/424269.The_Doctrine_of_Awakening
As unpopular as his explanation of Buddhism may be in current times, this is the straight no-nonsense real deal. Probably my favorite book on Buddhism I have read thus far.
Julius Evola presents the Buddhist tradition with his characteristic rigor.
The text is well-structured, overflowing with evocative metaphors and extensive citations from the Pali canon.Evola's take on Buddhist ascetic practice is precise and highly systematic.
It is worth noting that Buddhist teachings align remarkably well with Evola's philosophy of initiation.
The Majjhima Nikaya had a transformative effect on him at a dark time early in his life.
He believed Buddhist doctrine to be of particular applicability in the darkness of modernity because of its simple directness.I learned a lot about Buddhist teachings from this book and it has helped me significantly in my spiritual practice.
Highly recommended.
A deep study on early Buddhism in both the theoretical and practical sense, with a extraordinary amount of research in its early texts to support the points and conclusions. This work connects and reconciles a path as apparently 'Oriental' and 'mystical' as Buddhism with the Western Tradition and exposes the misunderstandings and foraneous elements of later developments, particularly Mahayana Buddhism. Absolutely recommended for any Western reader fascinated by Eastern culture.
This is a book in Evola's typical style which merges his academic rigor with his Traditionalist viewpoint and, consequently, language.
What I found most impressive was his knowledge and sourcing of original Pali texts to back his claims rather than simply stating things that Buddha said/believed things as facts basically by the author's fiat, as many writers on the topic do.
Evola is obviously biased toward supporting his own "Aryan" Traditionalism, but there were many parts that I found interesting in that they are neglected by many other writers on Buddhism, presented a new view-point, and often drew upon texts I haven't read or have forgotten.
This book is a bit hard to read, but is chocked full of great references to different practices, and beliefs in the Eastern religions.
I had to abandon this book. Perhaps others have what it takes to dive as deep into esotericism and layer after layer of apparently arbitrary abstractions. But not me.
An important exposition on the Olympian character of early Buddhism. The work only broadly handles the topic, however; a reader would have to investigate early Hindu, early Buddhist, and Zen Buddhist texts to get a more applicable guide.It definitely appears an understanding of Zen is where people interested in 'the Olympian hero' should primarily direct their efforts, as Zen more explicitly rejects priestliness, is harder to corrupt, and has not been corrupted, as Buddhism and Hinduism were. Evola's analysis of the Japanese Samurai and primary literature on Bushido will probably prove very useful in this goal.
While a dry read, this is an informative, radical look at Buddhism that treats it as a framework for inducing awakening. There are some uncomfortable psuedo-racial elements in some parts of the book, but it's still a great read regardless.
Didn't yet finish because I took too long to read it that it was due back to the library
Masterpiece - everything else is silence.
