https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12358.The_Partly_Cloudy_Patriot
As you can see, I like to make up words and then people don't really take me seriously, you know?
A majority of The Partly Cloudy Patriot revolves around the 2000 Presidential election.
But I choose to display my dissent by bursting into tears as Bush finishes up his oath.
And then I read the essay The Partly Cloudy Patriot, her narrative of NYC immediately after 9/11...her passion for the idea of 'America'...
I will admit that I didn't cry over the 2000 election, I think I was too stunned.
It wasn't going to happen, you know?
People were going to smarten up?
bushe's first inauguration, to "witness" the fact that not every american just stood around & did nothing while the election was stolen, blah blah blah, yeah, standing on the mall & crying your eyes out sure is going to change the world.
i can't even put it into words at this point because it's so mind-boggling, but does sarah vowell think that only white people read her books?
she actually says at one point that she takes it for a fact that people in other parts of the world "hate us for being american".
basically, i hated this book & i don't get people who love sarah vowell.
The title of this book derives from Thomas Paine's pamphlet The Crisis: These are the times that try men's souls. The summer soldier and the sunshine patriot will, in this crisis, shrink from the service of their country; but he that stands by it now, deserves the love and thanks of man and woman.  While the content of the book is by no means as heavy or serious as Mr. Paine's writing, this book was released during an interesting time in America's history. Namely the aftermath of 9/11 and severa
Namely the aftermath of 9/11 and several of the essays in this book deal with Vowell's complex relationship with her country and how she feels about it.On the one hand Vowell proclaims a love of her country and its values, but she also doesn't like the direction the country is headed.
Hence the Partly Cloudy Patriot.I found her writings about the politics of the time very fascinating given what America is faced with today.
It came off more like a mere collection of random essays than a book that brought them together in a meaningful way.
Definitely reading more Sarah Vowell after this. And for as much as I cringed from time to time listening to her read (because it didn't sound very natural), I have to recommend the audio for the supporting cast of Stephen Colbert, Conan O'Brien, Seth Green, et al.
I got through 180 of the book’s 197 pages on one rainy day, so that tells you it’s pretty compulsive reading.Favorite lines:“Along with voting, jury duty, and paying taxes, goofing off is one of the central obligations of American citizenship.”“Being a nerd, which is to say going too far and caring too much about a subject, is the best way to make friends I know.”“The true American patriot is by definition skeptical of the government.
i almost gave this book 2 stars because it was cheesy in an NPR/This American Life/The Onion/Obama sort of way.
its a book about patriotism and skepticism and being american and thinking about what that means.
so that's the part that made it difficult to swallow.but sort of stuck in there are really moments of insight and good writing that warranted another perspective.
she's got hella nerd pride alongside her patriotism, which is what let me even finish the book.i would imagine she has better books b/c this one makes it seem like she either has, or is about to, write a really good book, which i look forward to reading.
This is my introduction to Sarah Vowell and my favorite of her work.I especially remember the story about Concord High School in New Hampshire inviting all the 2000 presidential candidates to speak.
After Gore spoke Vowell interviewed some of the students about his speech and many of them were impressed; telling how they felt he respected them as people, and didn't just view them as kids.He talked about the importance of the insulation of a loving family and how that might keep someone immune from committing those types of things (school shootings).
Further encouraging the kids to get involved he told the story of Love Canal.
And this is why I remain fuzzy with regards to whether or not I truly enjoyed reading this book.Sarah Vowell's novel of essays gets off to a great start with a piece about America's most beloved president Abe Lincoln that was truly compelling.
Its placement in the book easily diminished some of the power behind her points of view.Furthermore, not only do David Sedaris and Sarah Vowel have unique writing styles, they also have have unique speaking voices and many of their pieces are often better understood and appreciated when heard read aloud by the writer.
This book was very entertaining.
I was surprised by some of the author's dead-on observations and ability to step back and examine her own zealotry.A good example is her essay on the kerfuffle over Al Gore mentioning Love Canal while speaking at a high school.
AG was misquoted and "discovered Love Canal" was added to the list of undeserved credits claimed by AG.
The author was able to take a step back from her obvious boner for AG and reflect on the irrelevance of a misquote if the result confirms public perception or even reality.One small gripe, by the last essay the rhythm and humor became somewhat predictable.I give "The Partly Cloudy Patriot" 4 boners for Al Gore out of 5.

After reading the first essay in this compliation I wanted to like this book.
I looked forward to more of the same genuine feeling and witty sentiment in which Sarah ensconces her experiences at Gettysburg, Salem, the 2000 inaguration, and the Carlsbad Caverns.
And if their inclusion is supposed to be some kind of preformative affirmation of those inherrant contradictions, it feels contirved and doesn't flow naturally at all.
I wanted to like this book.
I wanted to lose myself within the dry wit and unexpected metaphors, but in the end all I can say is that of all the books I've ever read, this is one of them.
I liked this book so much on audio that I ordered a real copy so I'd have somewhere to mark all the passages I loved, like this one: "Being stuck in the Boise airport for ten hours while getting hit on by a divorced man with 'major financial problems' on his way to his twentieth high school reunion is irksome, but not as dire as swinging by the neck on Salem's Gallows Hill."and this one:"I was enjoying a chocolatey cafe mocha when it occurred to me hat to drink a mocha is to gulp down the entire history of the New World.
Hillarious.
I have to read more of Vowell.
Teaching future teachers how to teach social studies like I do can be serious business but Vowell will help me keep it all in perspective.
She's outlandish, and sill, and just really funny.
I am not sure how much sense this book would make for people outside of the US unless they are students of American culture and history.
I especially love her take on Canadians, the nicest people on the planet.
And her obsession with Teddy Roosevelt and descriptions of North Dakota are sure to rile some people up.
2002 was a simpler time.George W. Bush had just stolen the presidency, terrorists had attacked on American soil, and we were launching ourselves into an illegal war -- ah, those were the days.The twelve years of endless combat, financial collapse, and increasing national division that have intervened now make that 2002 America, portrayed in this book, seem like a Normal Rockwell painting.So, if you're interested in a trip down Memory Lane to those halcyon days when you felt freshly outraged and afraid, not yet resignedly outraged and afraid, grab a copy of this book.
Some parts were funny and interesting, some parts were rant-y and irritating, some parts were just boring. A mixed bag that averages out on the unlikeable side.
The category I picked for this book is Politics but I could just have picked Humor or History.Sarah Vowell takes us on her personal journey through the political world as she grows up.
Also don’t forget the Vice Presidents as she takes Al Gore to task, but then who hasn’t.How about Government red tape as she finds an Underground Lunchroom in Carlsbad Caverns National Park that has outlived its time but cannot be shut down due to government bureaucracy.As I mentioned the book is dated but makes for a wonderful read.
I first read The Partly Cloudy Patriot about 10 or 11 years ago, during the W era. Since it was only about 5 years old at the time, it hadn't aged badly at all. Reading it now, in the Era of Trump, it all seems so tame and naive. Who knew that I would one day long for the willful befuddlement of George W. Bush? I love Sarah's writing, but this collection of essays isn't as strong as her books with a singular subject. Still a solid read.
Sarah Vowell is almost the exact same age I am. I ready this book many years after it was initially published but I could very much relate to the topics since I was there at the same time she was. This book is so witty and funny yet I learned so much about my favorite topic: history. I enjoy Sarah on This American Life and look forward to reading more of her books.
I really enjoyed this essay collection and the laughs it provided. Sarah Vowell is a national treasure.
As a person who has never quite felt comfortable living in my own country (or anywhere else, really), I loved this collection of essays, in which Sarah Vowell examines the quirks of American society, the highs and lows of American history, and her own neurotic, barely-functional inner life.
She revels in these contradictions, personified by people like Theodore Roosevelt, the bookworm/he-man, who read Tolstoy while hunting down cattle rustlers.Vowell has some real problems with America, with the crimes of its past, the vapidity of its politics, with the way intellectualism is often scorned.
Sarah Vowell has a unique voice, and I'm not just talking about the high-pitched tone we hear when she reads her essays on NPR's This American Life.
Her essays will infuriate simple-minded flag-wavers because she insists on pointing out hypocrisies, like the smart, nerdy girl that she was before she grew up to be a smart, nerdy woman.
If you are interested in sharp-eyed glimpses of American from unexpected angles, however, you'll find them on every page.The times when she tells stories from her own life (as a twin, a gunsmith's daughter, a bookish girl in a small town) are my favorite moments in this book.
I picked this one up from BookMooch after hearing one of the stories on This American Life last fall (or maybe earlier this year?).
I can't ever decide if I find Sarah Vowell's voice charming or grating, so perhaps reading her prose was the best way to discover that I really, truly do love her.One of the things I've always appreciated about some of my pen-friends is that the letters they write me could very well be a voice mail message because their way of writing is so true to the way they communicate in person.
I'm really looking forward to reading her other books, and would highly recommend this one.
I admire her perspective, though it feels naive at times, but I do hold that the world is a far better place with a few True Believers still telling the old stories and visiting National Parks with Purpose.
Some have criticized this collection of essays as meandering, and I suppose that is one way to read it.
The space between the essays is where the battle takes place, a (re)defining of what patriotism is for her.
It is in capturing this, the distance between American History and Americans, that The Partly Cloudy Patriot really shines.
This book consists of a collection of essays, Ms. Vowell's opinions filtered through Government schools, and an overbearing "I am NPR, therefore I am smarter than you." attitude.
As it is, in all three cases Ms. Vowell just comes across as an annoying moron with a superiority complex.I will say this, the essay titled "Democracy and Things Like That", regarding media manipulation of facts, was actually good, and her admiration for the Gadsden flag is highly amusing, since in recent times NPR has led the charge in declaring it a symbol of racism and domestic terrorism.
I've read other Sarah Vowell books before, including this one, but decided to give it another go on vacation.
The thing about Sarah Vowell is she's very smart,nerdy,patriotic, and erudite.
She doesn't seem to like people in general too much.
This book is a lot about America, and politics surrounding the 2000 election.
She's well informed on everything and I like what she has to say.
I like Vowell's books because you honestly LEARN something while being entertained.
But again, there's that little nagging thought in the back of my mind that she doesn't like us (readers, society, whoever).
I always find Sarah Vowell incredibly engaging as an essayist, probably because I find that I have so much in common with her.
We both grew up in Montana and gave up the country life for New York City and our love of history and trivia cause us to engage in some rather odd social behaviors.
The fact that this book was written in 2000 added a layer of nostalgia to my reading.
The Nerd Voice again, and more specifically SV's wish that the country would have the guts and the sense to elect an unapologetic smart guy/nerd as President.
Not sure what I expected, but this book didn't excite me. Some of the sections, like the opening chapter dealing with Lincoln at Gettysburg, were quite compelling. Others were family stories that I found boring and irrelevant. I think the book is intended to be a humorous, light-hearted approach to American history. But it just didn't "grab" me. I guess one problem was having multiple readers and sometimes making it into a production instead of an essay. When the introduction to the audiobook mentioned that the music was performed by "They Might Be Giants", I should have been forewarned.
I absolutely ate this book up. I love how much Sarah Vowell loves Abraham Lincoln, how she argues for the preservation of an underground lunchroom in the Carlsbad Caverns because at the end of the day we Americans are just "a bunch of fun-loving dopes," and how she thinks more people would have liked Al Gore if he had "nerd voice" down, which would possibly have involved Joss Whedon writing all his campaign speeches. Plus, I have this nifty autographed first edition, so, you know. Suck it and stuff.
This was my introduction to Sarah Vowell, and I now like her very much. I know, I'm a loser for not listening to NPR more frequently, but I can't pay attention to anything else when it's on (seriously - even wash dishes), so I don't.She's funny and smart and insightful and definitely a patriot in a way that makes me proud to know that she's a fellow countryman (countrywoman?). A patriot in the "I love my country and am willing to stand up to the groupthink that leads us astray" mold. And also a nerd. I love nerds.
I feel a certain kinship with Sarah Vowell and, oddly, Al Gore.
