https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/528990.Signed_Mata_Hari
See, even though I'm a communist-leaning hippie, I, like any good little consumer, have a bit of a newness fetish.
Even though I have a little library filled with hundreds and hundreds of pretty paperbacks, more than half of which I've not read, the ones that are so new they haven't even been properly shelved yet are the ones I always grab.
That whole time I was trudging through Savage Detectives, all the weeks I spent reading (admittedly good) short story collections but yearning for something more substantial, this lovely slim volume was waiting calmly, pristine-ly, quietly glowing, for me to pick her up.
While not historically accurate, it was a rather poignant and lyrically beautiful story. Yannick's writing is simply wonderful and you find yourself being sucked into this world she's created for you. At times it's rather blunt and a bit graphic, but never vulgar. I finished this much more quickly than I originally thought I would because at times, I just couldn't stop reading.
I wouldn't have read this if I wasn't reviewing it.
I have very mixed feelings about it - the writing was gorgeous - erotic, lyrical, and when Murphy was imagining the life of Marguerite Zelle, things took off.
But overall the book wasn't very good - any historical information is uncomfortably tacked on and try as she might, Murphy does not create a sympathetic character.
The most interesting part of her life - to me - is how an untrained Dutch orphan passed herself off as an exotic temple dancer.
I would check out Murphy's other fiction, though.
I'm interested in her writing.
I enjoyed the writing and structure of the book and am interested in Mata Hari so a good read for me.
A lot of the time names weren't used and two or three paragraphs would go by only referring to "her" meant to mean Mata Hari but I was never completely sure if it was or if Sister Leonide and Ana Lintjens were supposed to be the focus.Historically I think that Murphy tried to stay true to the facts of Mata Hari's life, her early marriage, life in Indonesia, death of her son etc, but I felt no connection to these events as I felt like a biographical novel should have.
This book read too much like a rambling death row confession and it just wasn't appealing to my desire to sink into a story and inhabit the world an author creates.
Murphy couples her modular approach with no less than four modes: first person for scenes describing Mata Hari's girlhood and marriage; third person for when she's a prisoner in France; second person for ironic commentary about being a spy, exotic dancer, etc.; and the occasional/convenient third person view from secondary characters in the last third of the book.
The multiplicity of perspectives makes for some arresting scenes, but in a novel divided into such short installments it feels a bit undisciplined.
Incredibly, Murphy shreds her contract with the reader in the last paragraph with a direct address from Mata Hari that alludes to the author of the novel.
Beautifully written, prose, at times this book read like a dream.Mata Hari was one of the most well-known exotic dancers of all times, yet her true fame came after the accusations that she was spying for Germans during the First World War. A fascinating person in real life, she takes on added dimensions in the beautifully written novel "Signed, Mata Hari" by Yannick Murphy.
This exquisite novel portrays Mata Hari as a daughter, a lover, a wife, a friend, a mother and more, but first and foremost as a woman.
Mata Hari was a dancer, a courtesan, a spy. Above all she was a mystery. As she awaits death by a firing squad in 1917, she whispers some of her secrets to us... I don't know how much of this is fictionalized but the author did a good job in keeping my interest. The majority of the book is in first person with Mata Hari telling her life story beginning with her childhood in the Netherlands, through a loveless marriage in Java to her scandalous life as an dancer and later a spy during WWI.
I was curious about Mata Hari and didn't know much about who she was so when I found this book, I immediately started reading it. I feel the story, although fictional, gave me an insight into who the character was. The writing is really good too, very creative. I found some brilliant verses here and there. The author is definitely talented and I will be looking to read her other books.
This is the story of the dancer and courtesan Mata Hari. It’s beautifully written with vivid descriptions of life on Java. It switches between past and present and first person to third person, which was a clever way to distinguish between the different timelines. Overall I found the story didn’t engage me and I didn’t develop any empathy for Mata Hari.
No twists and turns that are unexpected.Mata Hari was a certain Dutch exotic dancer, who lived in Java, and then came back to Holland.
This book centers on her life, first as a married woman by answering a marriage ad in the paper, and the husband was a good-for-nothing army person stationed in Java.
Eventually, the family returns to Holland, and the father takes away the remaining daughter and leaves Mata Hari.
In the end, she gets executed.This book makes one feel like one is part of a dream world along with Mata Hari.
All the book focused on was Mata Hari's marriage, her quest to get her daughter back, and her sex.
The early chapters are very promising but during the course of reading, the mixture of the 1st person and the 3rd person narration became very confusing, still the writing was great but the character Mata Hari/Margaretha Zelle was under-developed, I feel I didn't learn anything new about her, she's still a mystery even after I finished reading.
The thing is Murphy tells a lot about her and how she feels but they are not brought well so the author fails to show how this woman became one of the most compelling figures of World War I.
What were the events that lead up to Mati Hari's appointment with death, by firing squad?
But, the events in this book take place before and during World War I; the war that would forever change the Geo-Politics of Europe.
Yannick Murphy does a great job of illustrating the events that would place Mati Hari in a position to be declared a double-spy; she found herself a midst a "no man's land" with no direction home.
I believe these scenes are needed to show what currency Mata Hari had, and what she was willing to do to carve out a niche in a dangerous world.
I must admit that I previously had no interest in Mata Hari as a person and that I recognize the main character in this novel as a fictional character.
I think people who like "historical fiction" that is a genre that contains a bit of information that is accurate might be disappointed by this "account" of Mata Hari's life.
The topic seems appropriate for Murphy, the same issues that haunt her other novels are present in this story: the botched relationship between a husband and wife, the portrayal of the odd issues that exist between parents and children.
The novel poses a lot of interesting questions regarding relationships, fiction, historical fact, etc.
Mas, em vez de focar a parte mais fascinante do percurso de Mata Hari, aquilo que a transformou numa mulher singular – as danças exóticas e a sua capacidade para espiar os dois lados em conflito – a autora debruça-se sobre a sua juventude em Java, o seu casamento desastroso com um oficial holandês, que lhe retira a filha, e as suas constantes tentativas para a recuperar.
Ou seja, acaba tudo por ser um vulgar melodrama familiar, sem qualquer intriga ou suspense que se estaria à espera num livro sobre uma das mais famosas espias da Primeira Grande Guerra.Para redimir, a escrita é muito poética e os cenários exóticos de Java ganham vida, dando-nos vontade de visitar a ilha.
I suppose my lack of research for books on Mata Hari should be rewarded justly - by a novel more fiction than any type of historical contextual element.
However the novel was frantic, with chapters a few paragraphs long at some points -- which did nothing to help my short attention span -- and the main character was kept too far away from the reader to identify with but too close to be objectionable about.
In the end I found the storytelling lacking.

This is one of the occasional gems I've managed to pick up from Poundland (a UK chainstore where everything costs, you've guessed it, £1).
When buying these cheap books I'm never sure what to expect, but this one was worth the cost many times over.I was fascinated by the novel's portrayal of the life story of Mata Hari and found myself completely swept up in it.
Yannick Murphy's writing is beautiful and equally compellingly portrays the heat and closeness of the tropics and the cold of a Parisian prison cell.The book has encouraged me to do some reading about the real events surrounding Mata Hari.

I enjoyed the story of Mata Hari and how it was written, alternating between her life in prison prior to her execution and her life before her arrest, from a young girl to her fame as an exotic dancer.
I enjoyed many of the discriptive passages from the book...for example, Mata Hari digging up the tulip bulbs, or how she discribed the smells of Java.
The book also told of the struggles of poor children or women who did not have a decent man too support them.
I don't know how much has changed, but atleast women have more options for supporting themselves.
An excellent read that sheds light on the life of Mata Hari.
Yet this book is more than just the life and times of a suspected spy during WWI.
It's actually a love story between a mother and her daughter--and the lengths that a mother has to go through to keep her daughter in her life.
The author's writing is also excellent--infusing the book with tales of island magic, WWI spy lore and the enduring myth and questions surrounding the mystical life of Mata Hari.
Yannick Murphy's novel certainly seduced reviewers, but such seduction may have derived from the author's literary dance rather than from readers' inherent interest in the subject.
Critics admired Murphy's masterful descriptions, shifts in perspectives, and attention to details alternately selected and invented from the real Margaretha Zelle's life.
The result is a poetic novel that will draw in even those who never thought they would enjoy reading about exotic European espionage.
(The case documents will be unsealed in 2017, then revealing whether or not Mata Hari was a spy.) The only consistent criticism of the book was that some of the sex scenes seem more mythological than real
I never even heard about Mata Hari before this book. The saddest part was the letter she wrote to her daughter, Non, about the secret she had remembered after all these years, with the letter never reaching her daughter and getting buried in the process. The author has a very magical, impressionistic, detail to her writing that I liked. Much of the book read like a dream, bending time and space. It definitely sparked my interest in this very intriguing character in history. -- esv, 1/27/08
Este livro foi-me recomendado e digo desde já que me custou muito lê-lo.
Mata Hari é uma personagem imensamente conhecida, e eu nunca tinha ouvido falar dela.
Percebo que Mata Hari realmente existiu e era vista como uma mulher exótica e fascinante no seu tempo e mesmo hoje em dia.
Adorei a sua história de vida, a única razão que me fez querer terminar o livro foi querer saber o final.
O facto de ter dado duas estrelas foi por causa da escrita da autora.
Muito sinceramente, George R.
R. Martin descreve as mulheres muito melhor do que esta autora.
I just finished reading this book.
It is such a fast read.
The chapters are short and you don't realize how much you've read until it's over.It gives a different perspective to the life of Mata Hari.
So much about her is a mystery.
Though a work of fiction you can see how it could be.
I wish that there had been at the back of the book an appendix of what were true facts.The book is a bit graphic in areas, but it is the life of a woman who slept with countless men.
The last page left me with shivers.
This novel is based on Mata Hari.
I have never really read anything about her before so I don't know how much of the story is true.
I did look it up on Wikipedia, and from there it seems that this is a story based on some known facts.
This is labeled fiction, so it's really not a problem that the story is not exactly true.
What I disliked about the book was that Mata Hari was so passive about her life.
I would also warn readers that there is quite a bit of sex in this novel.
I know this book is fictional but I could not stop myself from looking up photos and information about Mata Hari while reading it, so brought to life for me was she.
The vivid imagery of Mata Hari's thought patterns and recollections borders on surreal, while also providing the means by which the reader sympathizes with this ethereal protagonist.
The most tender aspect of it for me was the very believable love revealed by Mata Hari as a mother, an ingenious trick for the author to use in writing about a woman who is known primarily as an exotic dancer and spy.
This was an interesting take on the famed spy Mata Hari, who probably wasn't much of a spy, merely a scapegoat when the French were losing to the Germans in WWI. The novel follows fairly closely the facts known about Mata Hari but would have been improved by an author's note. The book, however, does present some fictional explanations--for the death of her son, etc. The book is easy reading with lyrical prose as the chapters vary from first to third person and from past to present. This isn't great literature; it is, however, entertaining and a bit erotic.
This is a fictional account of the life of Mata Hari, infamous dancer and spy. It's written much like a diary except for suddenly switching to third person narrative here and there, which I hated. I would have preferred the book stick to the journalized account from Mata's POV..To read full review and view pictures, please click the link below.http://wwwbookbabe.blogspot.com/2010/...
In the end, not as good as I thought it would be. After all, a book about such a notorious subject has no excuse but to be utterly compelling. It was a page turner, but more in the sense that I had to keep reading to see when it would get to the good part. It had a few shining moments, but was largely fixated on Mata Hari's sexual exploits rather than her espionage or anything else of substance.
