https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/300540.The_Passing_Bells
I just didn’t know that I would be so personally engaged in one for over thirty years.In 1980, a read a book about an aristocratic English family during WWI that I absolutely adored.
Had The Passing Bells become my Holy Book Grail?The summer of 1914 will mark the last days of a privileged way of life for many English aristocrats and the working class who served them.
Interestingly, Hanna’s American nephew Martin Rilke, a young journalist from Chicago, arrives for a summer holiday and we see this truly English family from a new perspective.Downstairs there is an army of servants maintaining the ancient estate and the lives of their upstairs employer in grand style.
(I recommend not putting this down for any length of time -- given the size of the cast, it could be very easy to forget who is who.)Opening at the beautiful, bucolic country estate of Abingdon Pryory, the reader basks in the refined dramas of the titled rich -- marriages, love affairs, training house hold staff -- before widening to incorporate a wider lens.
Rock's characters do change and shift and I liked them, all of them.
But, the sabers are rattling in Germany and everything begins to change, and the walls between the haves and the have-nots slowly crumble.“A door’s been slammed shut and it will never open again.”And that’s pretty much all the outline I care to give, read it for yourself – but be warned, this is not a pretty war and if you’re looking for a light and fluffy read with a picture perfect HEA ending, I suggest you pass this one by.
My rating on this book is mixed- 4 stars for the similarity to Downton Abbey Season 1; which I thoroughly enjoyed and 3 stars for the gritty horrors of the Great War; which was just a bit more than I cared for although it was extremely well written.
I am just now discovering that this novel and its sequels are more than 30 years old...
Nonetheless, it is one of the best written, most vivid novels I have ever read.
The blind adherence to the "old way", the terrifying experience of the trenches and the calculating manipulation of those in power is portayed exquisitely, recalling images not only of Downton, but "Paths of Glory" and even more recent anti-war exhibits such as Mash.
Volume II and consider this a classic to compete with the best novels of the 20th Century!

A really good WWI book. Sometimes, the war scenes were so long and complex that I got a little bogged down, but I loved the characters and their different stories. This is a plot-driven book, too, so it didn't hit me on an emotional level, but it was entertaining and interesting throughout.
First in a trilogy set in England just before and during World War I, depicting an aristocratic family and those below stairs who serve them.http://perfectretort.blogspot.com/201...Readers seeking other Downton Abbey-like books can check out my list here: http://perfectretort.blogspot.com/201...
An excellent read, why did I wait so long to read it?
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
This portion before the war is most reminiscent of Downton Abbey, but was also my least favorite part, because it lacked drama to pull me in and I did not yet know the characters well enough to be more than mildly interested in them.
If you love historical fiction about World War I, The Passing Bells is a must read.Rock develops a good cast of characters, some of whom are even reminiscent of characters in Downton Abbey, like Lydia who reminds me a lot of Lady Mary at her most scheming.
The book does pass the Bechdel test, but only just barely.Rock's The Passing Bells is a family drama of large scope that poses serious questions about the nature of modern warfare.
Lydia Foxe, a prosperous heiress, is manipulative and unfaithful, a character no one would want to emulate.The book is written from the perspective of several of the main characters, switching back and forth between life in England, life as a war-correspondent-journalist, and life as an officer in the trenches."The lord's fist came down on the stack of journals like a hammer."We will win.
Although there were some scenes that were too graphic for me (scenes I was able to skip over), it kept my interest and I found that I want to learn more about the battles fought in World War I.
Book One introduces all the main characters, including the Countess' American cousin, Martin who has traveled to Europe to make his name as a writer.The pace is slow, suited to the way life was lived in the summer of 1914 and, like Downton Abbey, we move between upstairs and downstairs, seeing the very clear class differences.
The tone of the characters' speech, the period details, the progression of their emotions as the war worsens always felt true to life and the close of the novel is absolutely devastating.
This older Phillip Rock novel (first published in the late 1970s) is the first of a trilogy being re-issued this year in light of the enormous popularity of the PBS series, Downton Abbey.
Those going off to war, of course, were never again the same.Rock's novel conveys the horror of the Great War like few others have managed to do, so expected to be disturbed....there's nothing romantic about soldiers being cut in two by machine guns.
The politics of the age are subtly infused into the narrative and a careful reading of this novel would give the reader a very good foundation on the Great War.Highly recommended!
Unfortunately, nothing is being produced by Wouk, Jakes, and of course writers such as Michener and, Clavell are gone.
Other writers pit out books every few years if you are lucky.Anyway I read a blurb on this series which is more than 30 years old.
Picking up the first volume, and going to page 100, I though that most of Downton Abbey's script came from this book, however, once the WWI begins the book takes quite a turn and really delves into the ineptness of military leadership, the carnage and senseless loss of life, while exploring the character development.
While welcomed into the Greville family's world, both Ivy and Martin are starkly aware of their status as outsiders in a glittering social sphere bound by sacred honor and steadfast tradition.The advent of war following the assassination of the Austrian Archduke Franz Ferdinand brings the effect of far-flung European conflict home to English shores, with everyone from the highest echelons of society to the lowest members of the serving class eager to "do their bit" for king and country.
It was a sad story, because World War 1 was a sad story of horrendous loss.
I didn’t particularly like most of the characters (except for Winnifred, Martin and Ivy...the last two were my favourites), but nonetheless it was a very good novel.
The writing style reminded me of Vera Brittain’s “A Testament of Youth”, and like that book this was a book that made you think about the costs.FYI, a content warning for those interested: a few sex scenes, a couple of affairs, some swearing throughout, and vivid descriptions of war casualties (though it wasn’t gory for the sake of being gory).
My book club chose this book to read because a lot of us are fans of Downton Abbey and we had heard this book was similar.
We begin before the start of WWI and follow these characters and how their lives and their world changes throughout the course of the war.
I guess that was the part that got me - the way this novel was touted in the description made me think there was going to be more play between nobility and servants at the estate.
I learned a lot about the war and all the propaganda sent out to keep it going and keep everyone in support of it.
This book has repeatedly been recommended to Downton Abbey fans; also the front cover of the new edition says: "Before Downton Abbey, there was Abingdon Pryory..." As I am a hardcore Downton Abbey fan and upon reading Laurel Ann's review, I knew I must read this trilogy.
Anyway, I am currently reading the third instalment; so, I don't have an opinion of the whole series yet.
Also, I thought that this review would be just perfect for me to return to my neglected blog and to you.First of all and most important, I must warn you that if you're expecting a Downton Abbeyish experience, you will be disappointed.
This is not a "great" book, but as is clear from my five stars I really loved it.
It is about three young men in England right before World War I, and goes halfway through World War I, describing their war experiences and their love relationships.
The effect of war on one of the boys, a young, somewhat feckless aristocrat, was particularly well rendered, but I enjoyed all the stories.
It's one of those books that I can open any time, curl up and reread with great enjoyment -- and sadness, because, like GONE WITH THE WIND, it catalogues not only individual stories but the passing of an era.
Very affecting novel about the effects of World War I on a microcosm of the British upper classes, both aristocratic and military.
Touches all bases: the "last summer" of 1914, the Great Retreat in the face of the German advance into France later that year, the catastrophe of Gallipoli, the first day of the Battle of the Somme, shell shock, and the horrors of wartime nursing; Alexandra Greville's experiences in a field hospital near Saint-Omer are graphically conveyed.
Goodreads user CLM (http://perfectretort.blogspot.com/201...) puts her finger on what doesn't quite work.
Many thanks Stephanie!
A great book by Phillip Rock. Thanks Gabriele for this great recommendation.
I suppose the reference to Downtown Abbey is in regard to the servant's stories and the upper class life, but mostly I felt the novel had nothing to do with that comparison.
There were trite little love affairs during WWI and other such tomfooleries.In his attempt to recreate what life was like during that time, Rock throws all these random occurrences in and loses the point of his story several times.
They could have been better developed if more time had been spent on them, but in his attempt to encompass so many issues in one medium sized book, Rock loses the quality of his characters and dialogue.
In his novel The Passing Bells, Phillip Rock explores how the Great War affected people from all classes of English society.passingbellsIn the beginning we meet the Grevilles, a noble family who live in the country house Abingdon Pryory- Tony, Earl of Stanmore; Charles, his son and heir; Alexandra, the Earl's daughter who is about to make her debut on the London season; Hanna, the Earl's American bride and William, a younger son.
This 1978 novel was most certainly, in my opinion, the basis for the Julian Fellowes PBS series, Downton Abbey.
Countess Stanmore is quite busy with daughter Alexandria planning the upcoming social season while downstairs twenty servants hustle and bustle to make life pleasant for their employers upstairs.
An American cousin, Martin Rilke who is a young journalist, has just arrived and as we follow him throughout the novel his columns show us his perspective of the British way of life which is new and enlightening.
Little do they all know that soon, life as they know it will end for family, friends and servants.
All is right in both worlds of Abingdon Pryory until the Great War rears its ugly head and impacts each member of Upstairs and Downstairs are impacted in some way.
Lines that were never crossed in the past are suddenly broken and new rules are being written.The book was written in the early '70s and actually reads as if from an even earlier time.
No comes through unscathed and how each character - those that survive, this is war after all - must now learn to live in a new world.I found myself quite enthralled, entranced and engrossed in the lives and loves of the people of Abingdon Pryory.
Like DA's Lord Grantham, the Earl of Stanmore married a rich American bride, and it became a love match.
Martin Rilke is a young journalist who has decided to see a little of the world, but having been brought up in relative poverty, he is uncomfortable among his aristocratic cousins--and attracted to a pretty maidservant, in a completely gentlemanly way.The Stanmore's daughter, Alexandra, is a debutante with nothing on her mind but clothes, balls, and men.
Their rich neighbor, Lydia (!) Fox, the daughter of a man who made his fortune in trade, has her eye on being the next Countess Stanmore, though she is in love with a family friend, career soldier Fenton Wood-Lacy.
I'm not exactly sure what I was expecting this book to be like, maybe more romantic than anything, but it was different than I imagined.
I love how Rock not only explores the divide of classes, but also shows how this time period dissolved the line between the two.
I also liked how Rock didn't romanticize the war.
I really liked how he portrayed the relationships between the characters.
Not everyone married for love, some married for status or out of necessity.Overall I enjoyed reading the first book in this trilogy.
I'm really enjoying reading about this time period.
A young Chicago newspaperman, son of a neer-do-well artist and a French seamstress, decides to take a sabatical and visit Europe and an aunt, married to a well-off English lord, in the summer of 1914, and is caught up as the world goes to war.
He also meets up with the son of a British press-lord and writes for him, and is peripherally involved in the politics of the time, and in the societal changes that come from total war, and marries a former housemaid who has become a military nurse, with tragic results.
Altogether a fascinating and involving look at that period of history.Circles of Time, a story of the inter-war years, with the same characters, deserves its own review.
There were some similarities (particularly in the beginning of the novel), however, I found that Rock chose to focus more on WWI and the battles/how the war changed people.
Once you get the cast down, the book is a very easy read, though with difficult subject matter at times - the WWI scenes were very real and heartbreaking, although a few were a bit dry.Also to note is that time passes quickly in the novel, although it's sometimes unclear what year it is - I would have liked if Rock could have put the year at the beginning of each chapter for context.
