https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/280865.Artists_in_Crime
Like a number of other people I enjoyed this considerably more than number 5 in the series. The story was more interesting, it had DCI. Alleyn’s full support team including Bathgate, it introduced more of his background including his esteemed mother, Lady Alleyn and last but certainly not least we were introduced in no uncertain terms to “Troy”. A great novel, well written and worked out with numerous red herrings masking a devious killer that I didn’t get until virtually the denouement. Thoroughly enjoyed and my faith is now restored in this challenge !!
After struggling a little with Ngaio Marsh’s previous mystery, “Vintage Murder,” I was pleased to discover that I enjoyed the sixth in the series, “Artists in Crime,” a great deal more.
In “Vintage Murder,” Roderick Alleyn was travelling and, in this book in the series, we see him returning to the UK.
When Sonia is found dead, Alleyn has to unravel the motives among a group of people who all have reasons to dislike the victim- including Agatha Troy.
Both Lady Alleyn and Agatha Troy seemed a little reminiscent of the Wimsey books to me.
A really good murder mystery. Inspector Alleyn meets an artist and falls in love. Meanwhile a model is murdered in front of a group of artist but it takes Inspector Alleyn of Scotland Yard to find the killer. P. S. The brilliant Benedict Cumberbatch read it on youtube. Yay!!
A nude model for an art class held at a wealthy artist and teacher's estate is knifed to death, and everyone in the class becomes a suspect.
Just because, Inspector Alleyn feels sexy tingles up and down his pins (I'm trying to channel the Daily Mail here) whenever he is around art teacher Agatha Troy.
Her face, if left to itself, would have been round and eager, but the austerities of the Slade school had superimposed upon it a careful expression of detachment.Because it's 1938, one art student "looked like a dago".
Mixed up in a murder mystery – faugh, how common) & there is often a touch of 'cultural cringe' (believing NZ culture is inferior to other cultures, usually the UK or the States)This particular book also tested my desire to read uncensored work!Page 17 Miss Katti Bostock, the well-known painter of....Negro musicians  Acceptable for the times.Page 23 Alleyn writing to his mother “No darling I didn't not lose my heart in the Antipodes.
My copy is 1962 – I wonder how far back they go?& this is the start of the Alleyn/Troy romance which I found painful to read – in all the Marsh books I read not just this one.
An author I haven't read before but have always meant to read.
Felt the mystery component was strongly delivered and I had no inkling who the culprit would be until all was revealed at the end.
This novel introduces Roderick Alleyn's love interest the fiesty painter Agatha Troy.The dialogue between Alleyn and his mother however did tend to grate on this reader.
Also had a few issue with the dialogue of the Australian painter, it just didn't gel.I'm basing my rating solely on the mystery component, and the atmosphere and manners of a bygone era.
Well she's done it again! Not for the first time, I have read the whole of a Ngaio Marsh book convinced that I've been very clever and spotted 'whodunit' only to discover I'm completely wrong. I thought I'd picked up subtle clues that others may have missed only to find I'd been led up the garden path. I love it!This book also introduces Agatha Troy. I enjoyed seeing the developing relationship between her and Alleyn as their two very different worlds collide.
In Artists in Crime, another important series character is introduced, the painter Agatha Troy.As so often happens in Ngaio Marsh's stories, one of the series characters interacts with one of the new characters before the murder happens.
This follows on directly from the previous novel in the series, Vintage Murder, as the interaction takes place on the ship on which Alleyn returns from New Zealand to England.
One of his fellow travellers is the artist Agatha Troy.On her return to England, Troy is running a school for several pupils.

Whimsey/Vane is better known, and I love Amanda in Campion/Fitton more, but I simply enjoy Agatha Troy and Roderick Alleyn most of all.In all three of these romances, the woman is an independent, with a reputation, friends, and a career of her own.
I love Troy's shift from gruff shyness (with most people) to complete authority (with people asking her artistic opinion), and I like how Alleyn both experiences a meeting of minds with her, and yet at the same time slightly misunderstands her (putting her a little on a pedestal of sensibility until she corrects him in a later novel).The deaths in this story are particularly horrid.
Detective Inspector Roderick Allen Series Book #6 - 4.5 starsI normally have to read a series in order because it goes completely against my nature to skip around.
After reading book one though, I was on the fence on whether or not to continue the series because, even though I enjoyed the mystery itself, the dialogue and British narrative was quite choppy and all over the place so I had a hard time following a long in certain parts.I owe Themis-Athena's Garden of Books a huge thank you for recommending that I skip ahead to book 6, Artists in Crime.
Alleyn is returning from his New Zealand trip when he meets Agatha Troy on board the ship. Sparks fly between them and feel each do not like each. other Troy hosts a group of artists at her home. After a discussion of a method of murder with the group. The murder happens in front of all the artists. This book has numerous twists and turns keeping the reader alert. I read a Large Print edition from my library
Half the time Alleyn was using Fox's voice, or the cardboard "ozzie" accent assigned to another character.
The reading felt rushed, as if Wilton couldn't wait to be through.
I must read this in print and get more out of it.I felt that Alleyn did rather lead the suspects in questioning them.
Unfortunately the ro-mance between Alleyn and Troy (who calls the woman he loves by her surname in 1938?) felt rather like a pale copy of Wimsey and Harriet Vane...which was written before this.
The death of an artists' model brings Alleyn into contact with a community of artists who all seem to have something to hide.
The artists are attending classes at the home of renowned artist Agatha Troy, whom Alleyn had previously met on his return journey from New Zealand.
Alleyn has to put his growing feelings for Troy to one side in order to uncover a murderer.This novel is my favourite so far from this series.
The book also benefits from pushing the ebullient reporter Bathgate more into the background and introducing Alleyn's mother whose exchanges with Fox are a highlight.
Marsh isn't living up to her 'Queen of Crime' reputation for me but this book, the sixth in her series, is the best so far.
After falling for a range of unsuitable women, Alleyn is finally in love with Troy - oh, and turns out he's a titled aristocrat with the obligatory charming, scatty mother...
that was kept under wraps in the first five books.
Marsh tends to follow the same structure in all her stories with a spectacularly unrealistic method of murder.
There's more investigating than is customary here, and Fox is emerging as my favourite character.
Inspector Fox and all the other steady, reliable characters who attend Alleyn's crime scenes are present, and I am getting fond of them, especially since Fox is just different to Alleyn, not lesser in the way that, say, Watson is.
Alleyn doesn't condescend to him like Wimsey to Parker, too.I'll need a bit more time with Troy to decide what to think about her and the relationship with Alleyn, but at least she brings in more of a personal life for him.The mystery in itself, in this book, is typically convoluted and puzzle-like.
Detective Chief Inspector Roderick Alleyn is on his way back to England after a year abroad for his health in Artists in Crime by Ngaio Marsh, published in 1938.
At the port in Suva, Fiji, Alleyn comes across a woman on his ship, painting and cursing.
Soon Alleyn realizes that the woman is the great English artist Agatha Troy, and he finds himself attracted to the woman, but she shows little interest in him.Read the rest of this review and other fun, geeky articles at Fangirl Nation
not a bad plot, but not very nicely written
Alleyn is on his way back to England by boat from his extended leave and encounters Agatha Troy on the boat deck where they both had sought solitude--he for a quiet, contemplative pipe and she to do a bit of painting away from the other passengers."I had an idea," said the painter, "that if I worked up here on this hideously uncomfortable perch, I might possibly have the place to myself for a bit."She definitely makes him believe that she doesn't care for him at all.Then when they've both returned to England, she heads to her country home, Tatler's End, where she paints and hosts students and fellow painters.
Marsh seems at her strongest in artistic/creative settings, and Artists in Crime is no different.
This roving band of misfits presents an interesting cast of characters that keeps the story entertaining despite a lack of action in the middle section.
This is also the first glimpse of a real personal life for Inspector Alleyn, both in the familial and romantic sense.
Lady Alleyn is a delight, and I hope she makes future appearances in later stories.
Each of Marsh's successive books gets stronger in my opinion, a trend that I hope continues as the series progresses.
Years ago I read Death in a White Tie written in the late 1930's and liked Marsh's style but then forgot about her.
Last year I enjoyed the book Last Ditch written in the late 70's which is about a drug smuggling case and includes Inspector Alleyn's son.
This year, I read Artists in Crime, the story that introduces Rory to his future wife, the painter Agatha Troy.
The story opens with Alleyn meeting Troy on a ship somewhere around Fiji.
A solid murder mystery, excellent returning characters, humor, and a bit of romance equals a good read.
In part that's because it's where he meets Agatha Troy, and then has to investigate a murder at her home, so we get to see the beginnings of their relationship.
But it's also a really good traditional mystery, with diverse characters for suspects, a limited setting, the chance to work the case through step-by-step with the investigator, and some gruesome murders that you definitely want to see solved.
It's not the first in the series but it wouldn't be a bad place to start if you've never had the pleasure of Alleyn and his team's company.NB - My only complaint is that a couple of the characters are unnecessary.
Inspector Alleyn is called in to investigate the murder, and finds among the suspects the artist he fell for on a recent cruise.
Eventually the murder is solved, but I'd lost all interest in the case by that point.
Putting aside the rather uninspired mystery, I was bothered that Alleyn seems set up as a perfect paragon, so much wiser and classier and richer and bluer blooded than all the rest.
I was particularly bothered by this because he outright SAYS to his lady-love-the-suspect that she's totally not a suspect, and the extent of his investigation into her guilt is to have an underling check her alibi.
If this were a 'Friends' epsode, it would be: The one where Alleyn meets Troy...A model is done to death in a manner replicated in a Medieval romance illustrated by one of the artists.
This was my very first Alleyn, way back when I was a teenager - it is still one of my favourites nearly twenty years later, and deservedly so.
Great writing (though Marsh does seem to be experimenting with style in the early pages), a twisty plot, a nice bit of misdirection and a very satisfying bittersweet denoument.
Marsh allows the complexities and realities of relationships to shine through in all their awkwardness, but never belabours her point.
I am glad about that because I had the feeling that nearly everyone else in the book were met in earlier books and I felt like I was coming in the middle of something, at least with Agatha Troy I'm getting to know her right from the beginning.As to our author, Ngaio Marsh, I kept thinking she had a really good first name until I read that her first name is really Edith, so my excitement about her name dropped a bit.
Background:First Published 1938an Inspector Roderick Alleyn series Book #6Ngaio Marsh is from New Zealand and the book is set in England, so I can add this to #marchmysterymadness as my Foreign read.First Notes:This is my first Inspector Alleyn book, though I do remember seeing a few of the BBC TV shows.
Ngaio Marsh, who has been compared to Agatha Christie, shows me plenty of personal characteristics to keep me satisfied.
In the gruff conversation between Alleyn and Troy, Ngaio Marsh has shown me that these 2 may have a muddy relationship, like watercolors and oils.
An interesting case for the team - Alleyn, Fox, Bailey and Thompson - who murdered Sonia Gluck, a model hired to pose for the artists?
Eight students, the model, and Mis Troy have used this studio every morning from Saturday the 10th until last Friday, the 16th.
On Friday they used it until twelve-thirty, came away in dribbles, lunched at the house, and then, at different intervals, all went away with the exception of Wolf Garcia, a bloke who models and sculps.
The studio was not locked at any time, unless by Garcia, who slept in it.
Garcia and his belongings had gone.
Perhaps not the best of the Inspector Roderick Alleyn mysteries--I think those are the ones set in the theatre world which Marsh knew well--nonetheless this story is quite good. Much of the book concerns the interviews Alleyn conducts with all of the suspects. Although this can get tedious, the clues are there to uncover the guilty party. There's also some fine descriptions of gathering evidence as well as a tutorial Alleyn gives a young policeman on how to be a detective.For fans of Dorothy Sayers and Josephine Tey.
Twists in an arty plot.It’s a thoroughly enjoyable book which has enough twists and turns to keep the most ardent plot guesser absorbed. The murders themselves are satisfyingly gory and then there’s the love interest between Alleyn and Troy.
Gosh I do love a good Rory Allyn caper. This one is a peach. It's the one where Rory meets his true love. They are just cool as cucumbers despite the murderous shenanigans going on around them. And Roddy's mom? She is quite a gal. Let's not forget that scamp Nigel -- he always adds pizazz.
