https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4625.The_Complete_Short_Stories
The best short stories, Ernest HemingwayIn this definitive collection of Ernest Hemingway's short stories, readers will delight in the author's most beloved classics such as "The Snows of Kilimanjaro," "Hills Like White Elephants," and "A Clean, Well-Lighted Place," and will discover seven new tales published for the first time in this collection. For Hemingway fans The Complete Short Stories is an invaluable treasury.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز هفدهم ماه نوامبر سال 2006 میلادی عنوان: بهترین داستانه
بسیاری از داستان‌ها، پیشتر با چند ترجمه‌ ی مختلف منتشر شده اند، اما چاپ این کتاب که می‌توان ‌آن‌را عصاره‌ ی سال‌های سال تلاش «ارنست همینگ‌وی» در عرصه‌ ی داستان ‌کوتاه دانست، فرصتی‌ ست برای بازخوانی همینگوی، و آموختن شگردهایی که نثر، و سبک ایشان را پر خواستار کرده، و بر داستان‌نویسی نسل پس از جنگ جهانی دوم، تاثیری شگرف گذاشته است.
ناآشنایی با بیوگرافی و زندگی پرفراز و نشیب همینگوی، چیزی از جذابیت‌ داستان‌های ایشان کم نمی‌کند، اما به یقین، شناخت آن نیز بر لذت مطالعه‌ ی داستان‌های ایشان می‌افزاید، و بسا که برای دریافت گوشه و کنایه‌ های نهفته، در زیر لایه‌ ی بعضی از نوشته‌ های‌ ایشان نیز، شرط لازم باشد.
And since war is an experience that Hemingway was familiar with at first hand (he was a genuine hero in the First World War, after all), it makes sense that Hemingway would focus on war and its aftermath as the background upon which to set his examinations of human emotion.In "Night Before Battle," Hemingway is dealing most poignantly with the emotions of Al Wagner, the Tank Commander who's convinced he will die the next day in an attack that he knows should not be made.
Che cosa significa saper scrivere?Se qualcuno mi chiedesse che cosa significa saper scrivere, gli consiglierei di leggere i 49 racconti.
Ernesto aveva l’Afición per la realtà oltre a uno smisurato talento per descriverla.
La sua prima lettura, tanti anni fa, la devo a un verso di Guccini “I nostri miti morti ormai, la scoperta di Hemingway, il sentirsi nuovi, le cose sognate e ora viste” La scoperta di Hemingway… Se non è troppo e non è troppo poco, se è un solo aggettivo ma è quello giusto, se vi dà l’idea di esser semplice, fruibile, reale, vicino, vostro… andate a controllare il nome sulla copertina.
So, I didn’t read the Complete short stories of Hemingway.
I’ve read about a dozen of the stories in this anthology.
Some of these stories are what I expected of Hemingway.
These stories didn't give me that jaw dropping, must read everything effect that I so often hope for, but they were well written and entertaining..
Now the ones that I can truly say blew my Havana lovin', Zelda hatin', Hemingway image apart were  A Day's Wait, a quick 4 page story about a child thinking he is about to die and how he prepares for this.
My favorite of the bunch is the first story that I was told to read..
Gelmiş geçmiş en büyüklerden biridir Hemingway. Taklit edilemez, yaptığı bir daha yapılamaz. Onunla başlamış ve bitmiştir. İlk okuyuşumuzda çoğumuz "peh, bu mu yani?" der. Araya yıllar ve bambaşka yazarlar girer. Sonra bir dürtü ile Hemingway tekrar okunur. Hissettiğimiz, yıllar önce asi ve küstah bir genç olarak evin kapısını çarpıp giden ve yıllar sonra başı utançla hafif öne eğik bir şekilde geri dönen kişinin hissettiğine yakındır.
One time there was a bull and his name was not Ferdinand and he cared nothing for flowers. Hemingway’s reputation precedes him: a misogynistic, alcoholic, macho author whose maximum sentence length was five words. Given all this, it is difficult to understand why feminist, vegetarian, and highbrow folks often end up reading and enjoying his work—as I’ve seen happen. Clearly there is more to Hemingway than his myth; but separating the man from his reputation is especially difficult in his case,
Clearly there is more to Hemingway than his myth; but separating the man from his reputation is especially difficult in his case, since the myth, however simplifying, has a substantial grain of truth.The best place to begin this disentanglement may be his short stories.
More than that, the succession of tales allows the reader to see Hemingway in all his favorite attitudes, which makes this an ideal place for the critic to set to work.The most conspicuous aspect of Hemingway’s writing is his style.
Di certo leggendo "Colline come elefanti bianchi", non si può dargli tutti i torti.
al che lei risponde: "vorresti per piacere per piacere per piacere per piacere per piacere per piacere per piacere smettere di parlare?" sono 7 per piacere, tanti direste voi, non tanti direi io.
Sullo sfondo ci sono delle colline "come elefanti bianchi" dice lei.
Gli elefanti bianchi sono il dono che i siamesi facevano ai loro cortigiani, i quali si rovinavono per mantenerli.
***Review of short story "Cat in the Rain", which record Goodreads has merged with the complete short stories--don't ask me why.***I'm not sure why this story affects me so much more than anything else by Hemingway I've read.
Wanting to bring that cat in out of the rain quickly moves beyond an act of pity (and, perhaps, boredom) as that lost cat becomes a symbol of everything the American girl desperately desires.
I want to go and get that kitty out of the rain and bring it inside and feel it purr when I stroke it; and somehow, it seems, that will make everything all better.
I'm a huge fan of all of Hemingway's works, but this one takes the top.
The stories in here are so moving, so real, vividly portraying all kinds of manifestations of human nature.
I'd love to suggest one, but to I wouldn't want to take away from any of the others; each story has something new to tell.These works are an extensive philosophy and commentary on human nature.
As an even greater value, these works are a series of windows into Hemingway's mind and soul.
Nobody does short stories like Hemingway. Moving between African savannahs, Spanish and French cities and various American settings, he always gets to the point. Human hope and happiness followed by disappointment and loss.
But despite all that, in his prime, he wrote dozens of truly great stories.At the small Midwestern evangelical liberal arts college that I attended, there was a lit professor who made the statement that Hemingway couldn't write emotion.
We were reading "A Farewell to Arms," and the majority of students in the class (mostly young women who were aspiring elementary school teachers) agreed with her.
I spent class after class defending Hemingway to these heartless women, who read "A Farewell to Arms" as some sort of failed romance novel.
Hemingway writes emotion beautifully.
Not everybody breaks down and cries like a girl as soon as something goes wrong.
Poi metterei i racconti di Hemingway: i miei preferiti sono La breve vita felice di Francis Macomber, La capitale del mondo, Il mio vecchio, Colline come elefanti bianchi, Una gara a inseguimento, Padri e figli.
I temi sono vari: vi sono racconti che parlano di caccia, di pesca, di amicizie maschili, e poi di corride, di boxe, di safari, di guerra, altri di coppie senza amore, o di gattini abbandonati sotto la pioggia.
مقدمهي داستان گونهي احمد گلشيري دربارهي زندگي همينگوي، خود به تنهايي مي توانست يك كتاب مستقل باشد. از طرفي، شناختي از زندگي همينگوي بدست ميدهد كه درك داستانهاي كوتاهش را ساده و در عين حال عميقتر ميكند. چرا كه نويسنده ناخودآگاه خودش را مينويسد.
مقدمه‌ي داستان گونه‌ي احمد گلشيري درباره‌ي زندگي همينگوي، خود به تنهايي مي توانست يك كتاب مستقل باشد. از طرفي، شناختي از زندگي همينگوي بدست مي‌دهد كه درك داستان‌هاي كوتاهش را ساده‌ و در عين حال عميق‌تر مي‌كند. چرا كه نويسنده ناخودآگاه خودش را مي‌نويسد.
It's been a while since I've read Hemingway and I wanted to revisit some of the classics ("The Short and Happy Life of...", "The Snows of Kilimanjaro and especially the Nick Adams stories) and see how they held up for me.
I wanted to see if they still moved me the way they did when I was a young man deeply impressed and obsessed with Mailer, HST, Bukowski, Hemingway---the larger than life American literary alphas with their brash prose, the booze, the guns, the women, the big game hunt for the perfect boiled down line of whiskey-soaked, testosterone-fueled bravado.
Fishing. Shooting. Bull-fighting. Boxing. Smuggling. War. Murder. Skiing. Big game hunting. Love-making. Hemingway did most of these things. Some of them he just observed with a keen eye. In every case, his experience and/or observation pays off. This is just a wonderful collection of stories. Even the unfinished pieces are well worth reading.
Hem. writes wonderfully, wouldn't it be pretty to read so?
And so I did and pretty fast too.
How can these stories so rife w/racial epithets (Italians, Jews, Mexicans, African-Americans, Asians, etc.) pass those eliding censors of P.C. etiquette today?
And even for its time F__you's & cock sucker!
Atta boy Hem., tell it to us slant ol' sod!
Now I know where Jim Harrison got his hankering for onion sandwiches.
He even took a poke at Fitzgerald calling him a smoothie.
Of course Zelda has him at odds saying about him 'a fairy with hair on his chest' & 'phony as a rubber check' haha!
I've been reading Hemingway's complete short stories just to see if I'd been judging him too harshly all these years. It appears I haven't been judging him harshly enough. What kind of mass hypnosis are the people under who insist Hemingway innovated a lean, economical style--'the Iceberg style', which was named 'multum in parvo' in Ancient Rome and described a style thousands of years old even then? 'A Reader Writes' is one and three quarter pages long, and only the letter embedded in it is ne
Although, speaking literally, one can hardly say that they called for a Goya, since there has been only one Goya, long dead, and it is extremely doubtful if these animals, were they able to call, would call for pictorial representation of their plight but, more likely, would, if they were articulate, call for some one to alleviate their condition."	The sentimental overwriting, far from taking you viscerally into the pity and horror of the scene, has the opposite effect--blocking even an effective picture arising in the mind's eye (sure, I can do Ernest bloated too).
- Sono in un bel guaio- In che senso?- In quello più ovvio, quello del non sapere- Solo?- E anche del non capire- Chi?- I Grandi- I Grandi puoi solo osservarli nella loro grandezza, se li capissi non lo sarebbero più, almeno per te- Però vorrei...- Fare una cosa che non serve fare, poi!
e quanti aggettivi mi sono appuntata alla fine di ogni racconto: brutto, ottimo, bello, crudo, istruttivo, tragico, noioso, orribile, spiazzante, insinuante...di alcuni ho addirittura immaginato scenario e fine diversi, caro il mio H.E poi cosa sono questi brevi capitoletti in corsivo?Ho sospettato, ad un certo punto, che ci fossero nascosti nei racconti altri racconti e che un'unica storia dovessi saper leggere: la Sua. Un giochino letterario geniale!E proprio quando cominciavo a star bene, gambe penzoloni...paffete!
Soltanto lo scrittore  "che ha cambiato il modo di scrivere di tutto il mondo". Leggere i Quarantanove di Hemingway è stato come riascoltare tutti gli scrittori che avevo conosciuto esprimersi attraverso una sola voce. In Colline come elefanti bianchi, uno dei miei racconti preferiti, si ha l'impressione di leggere un primo Raymond Carver. C'è tutta la delizia del testo sotto al testo, quei rivoli quotidiani che si incagliano nelle apparenze di dialoghi innocui e ordinari.http://www.scratchbook.net/2015/05/he...
Took an eternity to read, but worth it.

I have read most if not all of the individual collections so this is largely a re-read that picks up any stray stories that I missed.
4.5/5 Hemingway. Maskülen, naif üstelik aynı zamanda minimal diyalog ustası. Tabii içi boşaltılmış bir minimallik değil söz konusu olan. Tınısı çok başka. Öyle ki bana diyaloglardan keyif almanın nasılını öğretti. Öykülerdeki diyaloglardan tek bir cümleyi gün içinde öylesine kurup durduğum da oldu. Hemingway bantın başını bulmak gibi, gerisi geliyor. Melankolisi, buruk neşesi, zaman zaman beliren cümbüşüyle.Başucumda kesin kalacaklar:Klimanjaro’nun Karları Bir şeylerin Sonu Yağmurda Bir KediKatiller Bir Günlük Bekleyiş İyi Kalpli Aslan‘Neydi ki yeteneği? Yetenekti, tamam ama onu kullanmak yerine ondan faydalanmıştı. Yaptığı değil, yapabildiği şey olmuştu hep.’Harrmngway
His spare, dynamic prose, the simple natural description that resonates like a Cezanne landscape or still life, his enigmatic way with dialogue that seems both commonplace and unique at the same time, and the way he invests us in the life of a waiter who wants to be a bullfighter, a couple having a dispute at a train station, the young Nick Adams at various points in his life, and various characters who suffer from insomnia or are in the middle of some battle with life’s indifference.
داستان های کوتاه همینگوی که از بهترین داستان های کوتاه جهان است، و در بسیاری از کلاس های نویسندگی جهان به عنوان الگوی ایجاز و تمثیل تدریس می شوند، متاسفانه در زبان فارسی، سرنوشت چندان جالبی نداشته اند، چرا که اغلب توسط کسانی که با زبان همینگوی آشنا نبوده اند، ترجمه شده اند.
بهترین داستان های کوتاه، و نزدیک ترین به زبان موجز همینگوی، در زبان فارسی توسط ابراهیم گلستان ترجمه شده؛ "زندگی خوش و کوتاه فرنسیس مکومبر" (1348)، "برف های کلیمانجارو" در مجموعه ای به نام "کشتی شکسته ها" (1334)، داستان کوتاه "پس از طوفان" که در جنگ اصفهان چاپ شده و "کلبه ی سرخپوستان" که از اولین و زیباترین نمونه های آثار کوتاه همینگوی است.
I hate giving up on a book, especially after I'm 54% through it, as my kindle informs me. But this was just not for me. I hated it, myself and Hemingway. I loved Old Man and the Sea and expected more of the same. Alas not. All this horrid abrasive men's stuff brought out the wus(s?) in me. Tormenting and slowly killing bulls etc sucks. I realise I'm in the minority but don't really care about that. 2*s for what I've read so far and not a jot or a tiitle more
While Hemingway was in love-hate *relationship* with Lady Brett Ashly ("Fiesta"), here the wife of Francis Macomber is presented as the *final* Hemingway's outlook on the typical woman's character: domineering, lusty bitch, which enjoyed humiliating her husband so much, that she killed him, when he finally succeeded in freeing himself from her oppressive possession and became a real man.
....I am returning to this review to say that many Hemingway's man characters are (IMHO) influenced by the male heroes, depicted by Jack London.
The story is about two American couple, who are unnamed, staying in a hotel on the Italian coast on a rainy day, the woman spots a cat outside, goes down to fetch for it but does not find it.
That is pretty much what goes down in the story, or is it?As for Hemingway being Hemingway we are bound to think that there is something more, something deeper.
While reading the story we understand the woman is trying to express her yearning for a lot of things.
As a writer I find reading Hemingway to be an addiction.
I have my favourite Hemingway stories which I will review in time but of his collected works they are something of a mixed bag.
At his worst I could not fail to give Papa 5 stars but most notable in this volume are The Fifth Column and the First Forty-Nine Stories.The book is a must for Hemingway fans but one should be aware that there are a number of unfinished stories and excerpts which can be confusing if you are not fully familiar with his works.
Love Hemingway, so easily a 5 star.
The first 49 short stories were a rehash for me, but well worth it.
Many, if not all of these stories, I believe are very much autobiographical so one can learn much about Mr. Hemingway's life here.
I wonder if it's true that he had 11 shorts, some poems and his first novel lost when thrown out by his woman of the time; copies and all as depicted in the last story.I've heard several people lately complaining that Hemingway "hated women" and wonder if any of you think that's true.
