https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/546255.The_Secret_of_Red_Gate_Farm
I don’t remember this one from my childhood, but I’m sure I must have read it.
As an adult it is rather absurd, but as a kid looking for adventures, I’m sure it was exciting and suspenseful.As an adult it is always easy to pick out features of children’s mystery books that help give away the clues and allow the reader to potentially solve the mystery on their own.
The “good guys” are described using words with positive connotations such as sweet, personable, bright eyes, and warm.
(Of course they could be set in various other times, say 2009 or so, but that's the theme, or trope which I keep seeing as I re-read these books.)In this story Nancy encounters a girl, Joanne, who lives with her grandmother on a lovely country farm.
(I think the first time Nancy encounters a strange, nasty, coarse or vulgar person she needs to go STRAIGHT to the police and not waste time about it.)Moving on...In order to help Joanne's grandmother, Nancy, Bess and George move onto the farm as boarders, hoping to help out Joanne (and Gramma) by doing chores AND paying rent.
i swear i'm not reading these just to give scathing reviews although i might seem like it i swear on myself-but the premise of which this book revolves around is pretty simple, and overhyped.
nancy thinks something shady is happening!
nancy's wits save the day......again.not much to it, hm?not to mention, yet again, this thing all happens on one opinion.
no twists, no turns, no oh my god what the fuck i thought that was going to happen i will literally throw this book.
it's simple not realistic.this is also worse than the other book because nancy and co.
Our f2f group did a session where we all read one or more original editions of a Nancy Drew as well as the 1960s revised version.
Some of us even read one or more of the most recent Nancy Drew series books.
I found the 1931 facsimile edition from Applewood to be much better than I expected having grown up reading the "modern" 1960s versions.
The writing was much more 'adult' or should I say less dumbed down & juvenile.
There were also a few instances of 'politically incorrect' descriptions or comments that were accepted at the time of writing but jump out at us today.
"'Miss Drew,' he said earnestly, 'I want to thank you for your work which has resulted in the solution of one of the most baffling cases of counterfeiting the United States Government has ever had. How did you do it?'" And that, my friends, is Nancy Drew in a nutshell. A mystery that's in fact quite easy to solve, and yet no one but Nancy Drew can. As to how she does it, IT'S BECAUSE SHE'S NANCY DREW.She may be a special snowflake, but she's MY special snowflake.
I didn't like the fat shaming in this book but, hey, that's the 1930's for ya. Whatchu gonna do?
This is #6 in the series, so it was pretty old even when I read it the first time - first published 1931 - and the writing is pretty darn awful by modern standards.
There is an incredibly improbable series of events that starts the mystery off, followed by coincidence after coincidence that introduces Nancy and her friends to another (mostly cardboard) person (Joanne) who, coincidentally, is unwittingly peripherally involved in the the Big Mystery.
I don't think I'll bother to sort through or call to mind enough from my large Nancy Drew collection in order to give them all ratings on Goodreads, but, this one is special because it's the first one I ever read.
And so that was my gateway drug, and over the next few years I collected a large percentage of the original 56, and a few of the newer ones, finding them at used book stores, yard sales, and occasionally new, as well as requesting them for Christmas and finding more at the library.
This was the first Nancy Drew book that I listened to and I loved it! The narrator, Lara Linney, does a wonderful job and she needs to read more than just the first 7 Nancy Drew books. I laughed out loud many times. The story was fun, but because of the audio I bumped it up to 4 stars.
I don’t read the synopsis of these books before I read them, so imagine my surprise to find out The Secret of Red Gate Farm involved mysterious CULTS.
Not that Nancy Drew will never have a personality, because I know she will as the series develops, but right now I just want to shove her in the mud.Anyway, The Secret of Red Gate Farm is on par with The Hidden Staircase.
This is a fun mystery to read for sure -- one that even includes the Secret Service. That was really cool. So, it makes for a nice read...
Nancy Drew returns as she investigates the goings on of a secret society. Yet another home run for the book series.
In this episode, Nancy and her friends help a girl named Millie and her grandmother out by boarding at Red Gate Farm for the summer to give the pair some extra money - they aren't doing well financially and will have to give up the farm if they can't make their mortgage payments.
Millie's grandmother also leases part of her land to a so-called "Nature Cult" to hold secret meetings in exchange for rent.
Nancy thinks it would be intriguing to infiltrate the cult and find out what they do; hence a mystery is born.
The crooks think that whenever a lady wears THAT particular perfume, she must automatically be friendly to their secret plot.
Naturally, our protagonist Nancy accidentally gets a gob of that perfume dumped on her, and one of the crooks tries to slip her a code.
She immediately calls her friends on the police force and keeps them updated during her investigation.
Her friends come along as sidekicks, but as usual, they aren't incredibly helpful.When the crooks are nabbed, they are told by the police: "This is the last time you try any funny business with Uncle Sam!"
This was the first Nancy drew book i read.It was so interesting I finished it in one or a few hours.It has mystery,perfume,"ghosts"and more.It all starts when Bess buys a bottle of oriental perfume sold by a hesitant woman.On the train ride to river heights,she accidentally spilled some on Nancy.Then a girl across their aisle faints.Nancy then gets a cup of water.on the way she encounters a man who smells the perfume then says "Any word from the chief?". That is the start of Nancy's adventures.How Nancy solves the mystery of red gate farm makes an intriguing and exciting read.
I've probably said this a zillion times already, but I love the absurdly complicated plots the bad guys think up. Like bad guys on Scooby Doo, they draw attention to themselves through some scheme that's supposed to scare people off. They communicate in needlessly complicated special ways, often in code. There's a baroque quality that I love, like the old-school murder mysteries that involve one bizarrely staged murder. It's that painstakingly crafted-by-hand complexity that still manages to fit the broad outline. I love it like a good limerick.
6/6 for Nancy getting tied up! While I appreciated that Nancy has not only George and Bess, but new one-off friend Joanne as a group of smart and determined young ladies, the ending of thus one was not very creative. A minor character comes to the rescue in a literarily boring way. I prefer the volumes in which Nancy has been able to largely save herself.
I enjoy Nancy Drew novels for a quick read. I enjoy reading how times have changed and how the way we speak is so different. This story moved pretty quickly and brought the several different incidents together nicely.
Enjoyed this book as a kid and enjoyed it again as an adult. Always enjoyed the adventures Nancy went on and how she grew with the addition of each new character she met. Will be fun to keep reading these classics.
Page turner! The beginning was already a mystery and as the story progressed, even more mysteries were added to the plot. I was more than halfway through and yet the mysteries keep piling on. It was nice how everything tied up together. Plus, I wasn't able to guess the ending! 5 stars
An extra good Nancy Drew book. This time I counted all the instances where Ms. Keene referred to Nancy as "the young sleuth," and there were fewer than usual - only nine - plus one "young detective." Jolly good fun.
An interesting book. I enjoyed it more when I first read this book as a child, but it was still enjoyable this second time through.
I hadn't read any books from this series in a while, but this was an enjoyable return to it.
The Secret Of Red GardenBy Carolyn Keene This is the sixth book in the Nancy Drew Series.
When Nancy and her two friends; cousins Bess and George, meet a girl named Jo who's looking for a job, they can't help but become both suspicious and intruiged by all of the things going on by her grandmother's farm.
Can Nancy, George, Bess, and Jo stop these odd events before they cause real trouble?
Or have they caused some real trouble themselves?I would rate this book four stars, because although it is old, it still can capture a mind with its suspenseful twists and 1960's dialogue.
I recommend this to anyone who likes the Nancy Drew Series.
My favorite part of this book was when a cashier insists Nancy's money must be counterfeit because, and I quote, "People don't usually go around paying for sundaes with twenty dollar bills!" I had to laugh out loud at this, as I recently got a minuscule scoop of ice cream with no toppings and paid almost $4 for it - and Nancy bought 5 sundaes with the works and it was suspicious that she paid with such a large bill.
Ha!Not to be outdone with this gem:"Nancy had only two dollars.
Bess and George between them counted out six dollars.
After Nancy and her two besties, Bess and George befriend Joanna, they go to visit her at her home, Red Gate Farm.
They discover that some of the land that Joanne's family has leased out is being used by a cult called Black Snake Colony.
Nancy daringly investigates as her and her friends infiltrate one of the cult meetings.
Nancy gathers enough evidence to blow the whistle on them after she uncovers the truth that they are a notorious criminal gang, wanted for counterfeiting.
This was one of the more sophisticated Nancy Drew mysteries I've read.
Otherwise, Nancy Drew rocks!
I have not read the Nancy Drew books since 3rd Grade so I forgot a lot of them and some I never got to read.
This by far is my favorite of the books.I liked having Bess and George in the book.
The story was good and I liked the cult angle.
It was easy to figure out but if your an adult it should be easy to figure out.
It does not take away from the enjoyment of the books though.
Nancy Drew is from a simpler time.
Nancy is polite but feisty without being a real brat.I would call all her books refreshing!
In late 2010-early 2011 I tried to read all the original Nancy Drew Mystery Stories. I crashed and burned around volume 27. Too much Carolyn Keene is bad for the soul. But this is still my favorite Nancy Drew book. It has a weird, paranoid surrealism with the whole evil cult plot and Bess gets attacked by a turkey. I've read the original 30s edition and the 50s edit, and they're both really good books.
I read the entire series when I was young and decided to read them again. It is so fun to remember these books from so long ago. Always loved Nancy Drew. Very different times from then until now, but still a fun read. Loved it!
Well, the premise of this one was just weird. Counterfeiters disguised as a cult? Anyhoo, Nancy is one lucky girl to always stumble upon parts of her cases at the most opportune moments, isn't she? Meeting all the right people and being at the right places at the right time. Wow. Lucky.
