https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11049475-famous-modern-ghost-stories
apparently the story is drawn from a collection of tales featuring the same characters in this Breton setting, The Mystery of Choice."Lazarus" by Leonid Andreyev5 stars.
but when the old man dies and the hand becomes a little monster, hurtling around a mansion, killing a parrot, etc, all of which the nephew and his secretary react to with dry amusement and then increasing anxiety...
lovely but extremely mawkish tale of a man briefly haunted by the ghost of a lovelorn teenage girl.
he was right to be embarrassed."A Ghost" by Guy De Maupassant2 stars.
From my review at BadelyngeThis collection of fifteen famous ghost stories edited by Dorothy Scarborough was first published in 1921.
Most of the stories are drawn from American publications of the time, the Harper brothers gaining the biggest slice of the publishing credits.
* The Woman at Seven Brothers by Wilbur Daniel Steele - Very atmospheric ghost story set on a remote lighthouse.
I admit I have a love of lighthouses and relish any story well told from its windy staircases, lamp-rooms and common rooms.
This story is a little traditional but still well told.
Some of Poe's stories are worth reading just for the use of language alone: e.g.
Having read this collection of short fiction, I can clearly judge how the genre has grown in depth and, also, has devolved.
The short story, as a form, is so vital to fiction, since it creates a literary snapshot of a time and place.
There were even a few where I sat back and asked, "What's the point?" We really have come far with the short story as a form.
So, my advice—this slim tome will interest those who would like to dip into vintage horror for the first time or who would like to lay hands on a particular story.
3.5* review tomorrow
When the shadow of the dead man begins appearing on the wall it’s only a matter of time until the truth comes out.
It’s not often that the story of a haunting is told from a ghost’s perspective and the author does a good job of making the reader identify with the ghost.
5/5 stars"At the Gate" by Myla Jo ClosserThis was a sweet story about dead dogs going to heaven.
3/5 stars"A Ghost" by Guy de MaupassantSuch a simple little story.
A man meets a friend he hasn’t seen in years and finds his health ruined his wife dead.
This was actually really good. It's a free ebook with supernatural horror stories that's available for free from Gutenberg:http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/15143?The title is a bit deceptive though. The stories date from 1900-1910 so they're not really modern. The first story is one of my favorites of all time, The Willows by Algernon Blackwood. Other favorites include What Was It?, The Messenger, and The Beast with Five Fingers.
Some excellent public domain literary horror -- read it yourself, if you don't believe me!: http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/15143 And if you want something ghostly but sweet, start with this one that proves that all dogs really do go to heaven: http://www.gutenberg.org/files/15143/...
Some of these stories chilled me to the bone, while others were slightly scary and a little confusing. Good book!
I personally thought it was a bit overlong, and it wasn't my cup of tea, but it did create a tense mood and atmosphere throughout.The best of the collection is Algernon Blackwood's "The Willows." Although it too, suffers from being overly long (I actually skimmed the first 15-20 pages and basically missed NOTHING)- I started reading in earnest when the two main characters land on an island full of creepy willow trees and weird stuff starts to happen.

I love ghost stories. Classic Ghost Stories. These stories I have reread over the last 50 years, at least a hundred times for some, others a little less. For me, nothing beats a good scary story right before I turn out the lights. And the best stories give me a little bit of a chill, a touch of terror or fright, or opens up a land where nothing is quite what it seems. Since I don't live there, but here, it is rather comforting, don't you think?
The problem with books that have multiple contributors is that I can't individually rate each one. Some of the stories (particularly the one by Ambrose Bierce) were phenomenal. Others, however, were pretty boring. Overall, I'd say it's an average collection.
A good collection of short ghost stories. I especially loved "At the Gate", and "The Middle Toe of the Right Foot" is a classic.
Good collection of a variety of old ghost stories. Liked some, wished others had been in it. Worth a read tho.
Excellent collection of creepy ghost stories from some of the most notable names of early horror fiction.
Beyond the story "The Willows," the other stories were okay but not exceptional.
Despite the book's title, not all of these are ghost stories, although all could be classified as speculative fiction.
Engaging prose style, colorful Breton setting and cast, and a lively supporting female character in Lys. Although he dabbled in horror early in his career, Chambers made his fortune writing costume romances for women, and this story displays his skill at creating strong female characters."Lazarus," Leonid Andreyev.
Great idea, interesting characters (an obvious gay male couple, though never identified as such), effective narrative structure, but misses the mark because it can't decide whether to be humor or horror.
Di dalamnya terdapat beberapa kompilasi kisah horor klasik terkenal yang pernah di tulis oleh beberapa Author.
Namun, dari 16 kisa yang di sajikan, hanya ada sedikit yang benar-benar membuatku merinding, salah satu yang terbaik adalag Pepohonan Willow karya Algernon Blackwood.
Sensasi sunyi dan terpencilnya suatu pulau yang di tumbuhi oleh pepohonan willow benar-benar menghasilkan efek horor.
Sementara kisah lainnya cukup bagus namun tidak memberikan efek yang sama seperti Pepohonan Willow.
Kisah monter berjari lia karya W.F Harvey mungkin berada pada urutan kedua, membayangkan sebuah tangan menghantui rumahmu, hal itu saja sudah membuatku merinding.
The “ghosts” are sometimes not what we consider ghosts, but rather the more general topic of life after death—one of the stories does not involve a ghost at all, while still covering the topic of life after death, and one while haunting, is not in any way frightening.
(If you’re a dog lover, you’ll not want to miss it.)With authors ranging from Poe, Machen, Bierce, and Blackwood, to their nowadays-unknown contemporaries, collected in 1921, this is a great primer on what was thought of as the ghost story at the start of the Prohibition era.
They’re not particularly frightening today, and often wordy, but they remain great stories.
Dikasih teman sebagai kompensasi dari ...
insiden sebuah buku yang digigit anjing.
:pDi cover tidak kelihatan, tapi cerita pertama dalam kumcer ini adalah The Willows karya Algernon Blackwood.
Horor jenis lovecraftian klasik yang sangat bagus.
Sangat direkomendasikan untuk para pecinta cerita horor.Cerita yang menjadi judul utama, Jenazah Lazarus, adalah cerita yang lebih ke arah ...
drama dan efek psikologis.
Lumayan bagus, tapi dampak ceritanya kalah dari The Willows.
Karena bukunya tidak di tangan, jadi tidak bisa mengecek siapa penulisnya.
Maaf :( akan di-update lain kali.Sisa cerita yang lain ...
Kalau bukunya sudah di tangan akan saya tulis review cerita lainnya.
Don't be fooled by the "Modern" in the title, this was a Kindle edition of a book published in 1921.
The introduction talked about the influence of "the war" on readers and writers and I double checked the date to figure out which war.This book had a wide range of writing styles and great insights into earlier eras.
I especially liked a story that included an American ex-pat's view into Gothic legends in Brittany.
It was a fun view into history and had a surprising ending fit for a Vincent Price horror movie.
It gave me chills!I recommend it for everyone who is a fan of old fashioned ghost stories and it's free on the Kindle store!
A pretty decent selection of stories although not all of them I would categorize as "ghost" stories. There are a fair amount of super-natural stories and the longest of the group, "The Willows" by Algernon Blackwood I would label as a science fiction thriller. With the exception of Edgar Allen Poe's "Ligeia" and Arthur Machen's "The Bowmen," all of these stories were new to me.I would recommend this collection to anyone who enjoys early twentieth century literature that isn't your "conventional" twentieth century lit.
There were a few lackluster stories in this collection but "Lazarus" itself was enough to earn a 5 star rating and the majority of the stories were at least enjoyable, if not amazing. The struggle with the disembodied hand actually had me laughing 'til I cried. I don't think that was the story's intent but I definitely enjoyed that one as well. Decidedly one of the better collections I've read recently.
It's unfortunate that I think the Thai translation ruined many of these stories. I don't want to give the translator a hard time since some of the stories are probably really difficult to translate nicely (Edgar Allan Poe's one for example. Translating a poem is a very difficult task)I'm glad someone translated all these stories to Thai but I can't help feeling that I should have read this book in English instead.
Salah satu buku kumcer horor yang saya suka sekali. Kisah horor klasik memang membawa 'rasa' yg berbeda. terutama dalam membangun teror serta membuat kisah tampak biasa tanpa berlebihan namun membuat ketegangan yang berbeda.Ada kisah pendeta hitam yang tengkoraknya bergerak sendiri. kemudian mengincar orang yg mengganggunya. atau tangan kanan yang bergerak sendiri, atau juga kisah arwah mantan istri yg merasuki mayat. bukan kisah murahan tapi benar2 kisah horor yg abadi.
A very nice collection of creepy tales from stellar authors. Now in the public domain, a free electronic copy of the book is available here.
Dated to the writing of the turning 20th century, this book is far from "Modern". First published in the 1920's, the stories are written at a style of the time. Slow and with unnecessary details are used in describing every slightest event with this style. Some of the stories are interesting but others are just painful to read.
buku ini merupakan kumpulan cerita horor klasik, ada beberapa cerita yg menarik, ada yg membuat merinding, ada yg bikin nyesek, ada yg biasa aja dan ada juga yg aku gak ngerti apa maksud dari cerita itu
3 stars. Keep in mind that this was published in 1912 (?) so modern is a relative term!I found this collection of ghost stories well-written and enjoyable (more than I expected as this is a genre I don't much like).
3½ stars. Keep in mind that this was published in 1912 (?) so modern is a relative term!I found this collection of ghost stories well-written and enjoyable (more than I expected as this is a genre I don't much like).
The stories in this collection were average. "Lazarus" had the potential to be pretty awesome, but it was too long, and I lost interest. Ambrose Bierce delivered as usual, and "At the Gate" was wonderfully sweet.
