https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/147732.Miss_Nelson_Is_Missing_
Look at how wonderful Matthew's review is!He is on a mission to discover the great classic children's books!This is a clever -wise - mystery story for 'all' ages! A Treasure!
Luckily one day Miss Nelson walks into class and the students are ecstatic to see her again and behave the best students they can be which is great for her and looking back now, Miss Viola Swamp look awfully familiar to Miss Nelson.This is a classic children's book which I believe every kid should read because its cute, short, and full of lessons that you should respect your teachers and elders.
I didn't know there are sequels to the Miss Nelson is Missing book and I am excited to read them all to learn more of Miss Nelson's students and the return of Miss Viola Swamp.
The students in Miss Nelson’s class, Room 207, were misbehaving again.
No matter how nicely Miss Nelson asked they won’t stop talking, they won’t do their schoolwork, they were even rude during story hour!
The next day at school Miss Nelson did not arrive in Room 207.
As the days passed the kids realized they missed Miss Nelson!
When the kids spied on Miss Nelson’s house, they were scared away when Miss Swamp came around the corner.
The story could be a moralistic story about learning to behave if it weren’t for the inside joke of Miss Nelson disguising herself as Miss Swamp.
“Miss Nelson is Missing!” is a children’s book written by Harry Allard along with illustrations by James Marshall and is about how the school’s sweetest teacher suddenly disappears and is replaced by a vicious teacher who tortures the students in room 207.
Harry Allard has written a clever story about how the kids of room 207 learned the hard way about behaving when they are nearly stuck with a cruel teacher when their sweet teacher suddenly disappears from school.
I think it was clever about the way that the children suddenly started behaving towards the end of the book when they realized that Miss Nelson was a better teacher than Miss Swamp after they started taking advantage of her good nature.
I still have my copy of this book from kindergarten, and its story is timeless. These days it seems like kids never respect anyone; they're rude, nasty and cruel a lot of the time to their parents and teachers, but this book serves as a reminder to treat others the way you'd like to be treated. Accompanied by hilarious and brightly-colored illustrations, this is definitely an excellent children's story.
Miss Nelson is a class teacher in Room 207 where the kids misbehave every day and show her absolutely no respect.
The students begin missing Miss Nelson and when she finally returns, the students have learned their lesson and never misbehave again.This is a fun book for a read aloud which kids will enjoy and be highly interested in the whole time.
This book can spark kids imagination and creativity and can get them writing their own story using third person and dialogue.
An extension activity could be to have the kids think about their own disguise and writing a short story about what they would use it for.
one of my greatest joys as a mother is getting the opportunity to revisit all the books i loved as a child with my daughters.
she decides she's going to get those kids to work.
she dresses all in black, changes her hair, goes goth, and alters her voice.then she works the crap out of those kids so that by the time sweet pretty miss nelson gets back, they'd rob a bank for her, if she asked.i'm sure her methods are frowned upon, but can you blame the woman for just wanting a little decorum?i can't.
The story and the illustrations are humorous and cute.
This is a great picture book school story of an inventive way to get a class to behave and appreciate a good and kind and creative teacher.
There are so many hilarious bits within the story and as part of the illustrations too.
I especially enjoyed the titles of the homework books assigned by the “mean” teacher and the shark tank page, but I appreciated the whole book.
On the book’s page it indicates that this is a series; I just might check out any other Miss Nelson books.
I read this book as a child. I can remember that a substitute teacher was the first to introduce this book to me. I remembered because I thought it was funny that Mrs. Swamp in the book was a sub and the teacher reading it was too. I think this book is a great way to teach students how to appreciate things and to be on their good behavior because you never know what will happen if you're misbehaving.
Not my favorite so far but still not a bad book. The end was a nice little chuckle, yes, the ending was good.
My seven year old grandson doesn't like reading very much, but he loved this book when I brought it home from the library and devoured the others in the series, too. He's not observant, so I had to point out the clothes in Miss Nelson's closet at the end of the book and ask him what he thought that picture meant. When he understood the joke he loved it.
Miss Nelson decides something needs to happen so that her class will listen to her again.
The next day Miss Nelson doesn't return to the class, which excites her students until they see who their substitute teacher is.
The students realize they want Miss Nelson back and go off to search for their sweet missing teacher.
The illustrations are very colorful and simple enough for younger children to catch on to things happening.I think this book is great.
It is a very abstract way to get students to behave in a classroom, but it is a great way to show that not all teachers are so nice.
It is only the black dress hanging in her closet that suggests there is a reason why we never saw miss Nelson and Miss Viola Swamp together in the same place...!!I have read this story to children in Nursery, reception and year 2 and they all love it and ask for it again and again!
Its great to see how many children notice Miss Swamp IS Miss Nelson too!Overall, a brilliant book to read to any class, and a great idea for teachers too!!
Summary:This book is about a teacher name Miss Nelson in room 207 where the kids misbehave everyday and doesn't show her any respect.
Soon, they begin to miss Miss Nelson and when she returns, they learned their lesson to never misbehave again.Characteristics:The book is a contemporary realistic fiction because it showed moral dilemmas in a school setting.
The presentation showed great illustration and the organization showed the beginning, middle, and end of the story.
If you enjoy reading this book, other mentor text you would be interested in reading is-Miss Nelson is Back by Harry Allard
When Miss Nelson finally returns, the children are so grateful to have her.
One critique of the book is that it is a bit older and some of the drawings are less visually appealing that what technology allows for today.Classroom use:This is a comical, light book.
I would use it as a read aloud solely for the purpose of student enjoyment.
It is books like this one that reengage students and excite them about reading on their own.Genre: Contemporary Realistic FictionFormat: Picture BookReading level: Grades 2-3Theme: BehaviorTopic: Substitute teachersGender, race/ethnicity, socioeconomic status: These details are not explicitly discussed.
Books about students and teachers are always entertaining when told in the classroom, as it gets students thinking about their own experiences or behavior as well.
The book, Miss Nelson is Missing by Harry Allard is just that.
A really nice teacher has a classroom of crazy, disruptive students.
When they are on the right track again, Miss Nelson returns and now Miss Swamp is missing.
It can be told as a moralistic story but could also go beyond that with older elementary on building charts.
Miss Nelson is a perfect example of a picture book with a theme that young students can relate to.
I love the fact that many readers can shamefully relate to joining with our classmates to torture an overly nice, young teacher.
Students who read this book are able to reflect on their behavior in the classroom with a "you don't know what you have until it's gone" mentality.
It's a great book to highlight clues that might help us to discover exactly where Miss Nelson was "hiding" throughout the story.I have yet to read the sequel but would love to check out what comes next from the class of Room 207!
I love it {> (That's a heart). I would read this book everyday if I had the chance
Miss Nelson is a very sweet teacher to some crazy students, they never listen.
Facing the new strict teacher the students listen to Miss Swamp but want Miss Nelson back.
Characters: Both Miss Nelson and Miss Swamp are considered the main characters of this story.
While Miss Swamp looks like a witch to the children and has great control over the classroom.
One Miss Swamp takes over, the students realize they want their sweet Miss Nelson back.
A majority of the story is in their classroom, Room 207, but the curious students go looking for Miss Nelson around town, even checking at her house.
To teach her students a lesson Miss Nelson the teacher decides to “go missing” and send in Miss Viola Swamp.
Miss Swamp is a strict teacher who allows no type of misbehaving.
This picture should lead the students to believe that Miss Nelson dressed up to pretend to be Miss Viola Swamp.
This book was a WOW book for me because of the lesson it teaches students and the simplicity of the text.
I would use this book to help my students begin to think critically about mysteries and help them learn what they should pay attention to when trying to read mysteries.
One of my favorites from my early school days, and now I get to share the same story with my daughter - who figured out Miss Nelson's trick before the secret was revealed!
This review is required for Dr. Sykes' READ 3307 course at the University of Mary-Hardin BaylorMiss Nelson is Missing, written by Harry Allard and illustrated by James Marshall, is a contemporary realistic fiction book that takes place mostly in Miss Nelson's elementary classroom.
Miss Nelson is a kind teacher whose students take advantage of her and are cruel and disrespectful.
One day, Miss Nelson is not in the class and instead is the mean and scary Miss Viola Swamp.
The students immediately notice the contrast between the two teachers...The theme of the story is respect.
I'm an adult now, but picture books still have a soft spot for me and I really love the artwork!I reread this picture book on September 3 2017 at the age of 33 years old and it still holds magic for me.
I doubt I will ever grow out of loving books meant for all ages, especially the ones I grew up with.--Child me: 5 starsAdult me: 5 stars*For the first book in a "child/teen/middlegrade/nostalgic" book, I am going with the rating younger me would have gone with, then if I read on in the series, I will rate the books what adult me believes it should be rated.
Please note, I do not really think books should have an age limit.
I REALLY WANT TO KNOW WHEN AND HOW I READ THIS AS A CHILD.I don't think we own it. Granny's house? Our old library?It's such an incredibly /familiar/ book.Not quite 4 stars probably. But I was so happy to see it, even though I haven't thought about it in years.
A fun book about a sweet teacher who plays a little trick on her class full of misbehaving students.
Where did miss NElson go in the middle soooo funny made laugh soo hard read and u will enjoy and if ur down this book will help u get happy again GO READ IT!
One of my all-time favorites. Who doesn't love Viola Swamp? I mean her name alone inspires fear. A must for those first few days back to school.
Em says that I need to tell people that this is one of her favorite books of October. I loved this book when I was her age too!
A great little book that any little kid who wants to be a teacher when she grows up would love.
I love. This book
