https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/524878.Without_Reservations
I loved this book! Reading it was like sitting at a table across from the author with a pot of tea between us. Parts of it brought tears to my eyes. This woman has a zest for life and an ability to make friends wherever she goes. I envy her! She falls in love in Paris, meets a bride-to-be in Milan, and learns ballroom dancing in Oxford. What an adventure! What a story!
Travel books are interesting for two reasons.
I agreed with the reviewer who called Steinbach's metaphors and literary allusions forced.
The one place she went to I had personally visited was England.
But I didn't feel any pull or identification with her experience of London and other places I had visited.
At one point she visited London and other parts of Europe with her mother--and here, in a memoir not focused on travel per se, in the one chapter about her visit to Europe, I found more keen observations and insights in each paragraph than I did in the whole of Steinbach's book.
Now as I get ready to retire it seemed just the right time to read Steinbach's take on the journey of a lifetime; an exploration of self discovery.
I found myself nodding, smiling, laughing, and applauding Steinbach as I read through her thoughts and adventures on this journey.
It is the ancient fear of the Unknown, and its is your first bond with the wilderness you are going into."These and other passages throughout the book gave me pause to think at my own new journey and how it can be an adventure if I just allow new experiences to wash over me.
Traveling along with Alice was like sitting down and taking some good life lessons from a wiser, older woman.
The food smelled so good, so even though I just had dinner, and I never do things like this, I called out, "It smells really good.""What?" the lady called back."It smells really good," I called back."Come," she said waving the spatula.
The no was a reflex action based on too many demands too many times in too many days.
Like Alice, I want to say yes.
I like spending time with women older than me, who seemed to have their life figured out in one way or another.
The topics of the book-traveling through parts of Europe, and becoming independent as a mature woman-were interesting to me, but I was disappointed in the structure and flow of writing in this book.
The story was told in an uneven fashion, with lingering descriptions of seemingly minor incidents, and quick summations of major travel events.
The writing often seemed disjointedl ike a list of events, or quick notes on a postcard (which is a device she uses to begin each chapter).
Toward the end of the book, the form breaks down altogether, with asides and out of sequence events that seemed to have escaped her notice earlier, making it seem like she was rushinf for a deadline.
The basic premise - middle-aged divorced mother of two suffering from empty-nest-syndrome drops out of her life to travel around Europe alone and 'find herself' - is so overdone, so clichéd, that I almost found myself rolling my eyes on every page.I found it an enjoyable enough read, don't get me wrong - it's always entertaining to see familiar places through others' eyes, and Steinbach is a lively, engaging writer - but I didn't find it inspiring or motivating, powerful or insightful.
If only we could all move through life like this!I feel churlish writing like this - Steinbach clearly found in her travels what she was looking for, and who am I to denigrate someone else's experience?
I LOVED the comments that Alice Steinbach made during her travels.
So many astute observations that I found myself nodding in agreement with.An excellent book to inspire the soul with.
As I told the friend that I passed Without Reservations on to, this book retaught me that we are not defined by where we come from, what we do, or the roles we have come to fulfill: we simply are who we are.
And that's just how it should be."Dangerous": Made me want to sit in a cafe and write in my journal all day long, and inspired me to go on solo adventures.
This was kind of like listening to a friend tell about her trip. You really want to hear about it, you really do, but then she just keeps going on and on about the little details that don't really matter to anyone but her. At one point, it sounded like bragging. I would have enjoyed more about the people and less about the little things she did, like shoe shopping. She didn't even bring back the relevance of buying the shoes. This was a book that I couldn't wait to end.
I really enjoyed this book. It was a very easy read - she writes simply and the chapters are short. If you have ever traveled to Paris or Italy, you'll like her descriptions and how she connected differently to each city/area. Also, it is not just a travel book, but a book about self-discovery at an older age. A nice bonus: the author offers a great idea for how to keep a diary/document your travels: she write & mails postcards home to herself. What a wonderful idea!Hope some of you pick this up: very worthwhile.Tricia
The title is the first problem with this book. The author has reservations in almost all of her destinations. I imagined a book about a woman with a backpack and train pass with no specific timeline...wrong. The second problem is that she never pulls the reader in. Steinbach writes as though she were an observer in the experiences, not a participant. It left me feeling cold and lonely...It just wasn't good travel writing. What a disappointment.[return][return]It is possible my experience reading this book is too influenced by having just completed Eat, Pray, Love, which is beautifully written.
I'm giving up on this book - it just didn't keep me interested. It's hard for me not to just finish it as I hate leaving a book before the end, but I just can't do it.
I wish I could give this something stronger than a "didn't like it." This book was terrible - the writing and the story are treacly and shallow.
In 1993 Steinbach, then in her fifties, took a sabbatical from her job as a Baltimore Sun journalist to travel for nine months straight in Paris, England and Italy.
As a divorcee with two grown sons, she no longer felt shackled to her Maryland home and wanted to see if she could recover a more spontaneous and adventurous version of herself and not be defined exclusively by her career.Her innate curiosity and experience as a reporter helped her to quickly form relationships with other English-speaking tourists, which was an essential for someone traveling alone.
I am planning a trip to Europe in the spring and I notice Steinbach's travels are Paris, London, Oxford, and Italy.
Alice takes a leave from work and her busy life to travel to Europe with the primary plan of not having a plan.
She truly wanders the cities, meets new people, explores random places on a whim.
A great inspiration to pause and appreciate all the little things ...with the backdrop of many gorgeous European cities.
This is summarized by a quote from the book, "What adds up to a life is nothing more than the accumulation of small daily moments."
This book seemed bland. I wondered how it got published, versus more deserving books, but I assume the author, a journalist, had a built-in audience. She tells some of WHAT happened, in summary (she gets ill and is helped by people, she has an affair) but she doesn't provide much detail of HOW it happened. The reader doesn't experience it.
A cheerful sound, it reminds me of the bells that shopkeepers attach to their doors at Christmastime.
It reminds me of the bell that calls to worship the novice embarking on a new life.
Love, Alice" At first I was a little leary of reading this travel memoir.
Oh sure, if I only have a day I still might choose to pack a day with sights but I've decided to give myself permission to just "be" and watch others in the same state.I love how the author will send herself postcards to remind herself of those tiny, expressive moments years later.
I believe it takes effort and independence to change this inclination to be who we have always been.Alice Steinbach has the chutzpah to make changes to her life.
It sounds like fun to part of me and then the rest of me wants my travel to be comfortable.I enjoyed this book even though I probably will never do anything like this.
Steinbach has reminded me that learning and doing new things can be fun.Those who like to travel and armchair travelers would enjoy this book, I think.
I especially recommend it to women who are thinking about traveling on their own.
Although the writing was sometimes over-sentimental and the author's insights about independence and traveling alone were not particularly surprising, I really enjoyed this book.
I liked reading about all of the small details of the author's day, especially her delicious breakfasts with hot coffee and rolls and fruit, spent enjoying beautiful weather and people-watching.
And I loved the idea of the author writing postcards to herself!
I will try to do that the next time I travel, just to keep track of little details of my days.
Go on a trip through Europe without leaving your home with famed journalist Steinbach in this wonderful travel memoir.
Steinbach does a fabulous job of not only setting the visual scenes of each locale, but also adding her own personal sensibility to each page.
She did all of the traveling she talks about in this book all on her own so the stories are, in addition to being about European ways and customs, about the life of the single wanderer.
Since this book is more about the author and less about the details of the cities she visits, it’s not for someone looking for in-depth information on Europe.
Steinbach put aside her job as a writer for the Baltimore Sun to travel in Europe with no agenda other than to rediscover who she was as a woman. She had been a wife, a mother, and a writer, but she felt as if she had somehow lost who she was to herself. Having traveled to many of the locations that she went, I found myself reminiscing about my own vacations. I really loved the way that she wrote as well.
Alice is also my kind of traveller, she is social and has no issues meeting fun people and getting involved with many interesting activities, yet enjoys the freedom and excitement of travelling solo.
This book is as much about the inward journey of self-discovery and identity than it is about the outward travels, and it was defintely a pleasure to share Alice's experiences (see, I'm on a first name basis with her already!).
Her writing is gorgeous, but accessible, and I love how she can find the beauty and soul in the most ordinary things:"As I stood beneath a street light studying the map, a woman turned the corner and headed for one of the houses.
The woman bent to stroke the top of his head; the cat leaned in to her caress.
"Did you miss me?" I heard her ask in a voice flushed with affection."In just a few pages I left a particularly bitter New England winter and a patch of major depression behind for a walk in the sunny streets of Paris.
This was one of those books that inspired me with the old idea of picking up my life and completely changing everything by going to some exotic place and starting over.
Alice Steinbach is a Pulitzer winning journalist who picked up her life for a year and went to Europe to reconnect with herself.
She started out in Paris, went to London, Oxford, and Italy, and her self discovery observations had me dog-earring every other page so I could add them to my quote book.
I was sad when the book was over, felt like I was saying goodbye to a wonderful traveling companion.
This was a thoroughly enjoyable read and I looked forward to picking it up from the nightstand each evening.
It is not the type of book to keep you up all night, unable to put it down; it is more like one that gently lulls you to sleep.
I think it was Florence that first made me feel this way, though I might be wrong (have returned book to the library, can't check) but she whipped through it in about three lines and was on to the next.
I was thinking, Whoa!
I will be looking for more books by this author.
I received this book as a graduation gift, and I saved it to read when I was traveling.
This turned out to be a good approach, because Steinbach's topic is a set of travels in Europe.
I lucked out by traveling to a couple of her desinations without planning to, which added to the fun.
I loved her literate and reflective style, which was interesting without being self-indulgent.
There aren't any roller coaster highs and lows here, but there are some fun stories and observations.
I found it refreshing to hear from an intelligent, accomplished, single woman.
I'm currently reading the sequel, Educating Alice.
In the early 90s, Steinbach was an established reporter with a twice-weekly column in the Baltimore Sun, a single mother of two college-graduate sons, and a successful, independent woman whose life trajectory seemed defined, secure, and predictable.But a restlessness had her questioning who she really was beyond how others defined her—“as mother, as daughter, as wife, as ex-wife, as reporter, as friend.” She wondered what had happened to the woman who “loved art and jazz and the feeling that an adventure always lurked just ahead, around some corner.”And so begins what Steinbach calls her “Year of Living Dangerously,” when, with encouraging friends and approving bosses and sons, she embarks on her sabbatical of travel.Her visits to Paris, London, Oxford, Venice, Milan, and Siena are not touristy, hasty jaunts from A-to-B-to-C, but lengthy, months-long sojourns in each place, enabling her to soak up the atmosphere of new settings and make real cultural connections.
The pages are like fine linen to the touch; each chapter begins with a postcard from the author to herself (a unique sort of travel diary, making certain of lovely memories), and scattered throughout are colorful little postage stamps.
Reading this book is like being her companion in her travels.
She meets some lovely and interesting people, and shares the uniqueness, treasures, and histories of the places she visits.
Alice Steinbach has written two other books which I look forward to reading.
As wonderful a traveling companion as one could hope to have.

Rich able-bodied white woman travels from reservation to reservation (seriously, what a misleading title), eats out for every meal, orders $10 coffee after $10 coffee (in the 90s!), feels faintly smug about how adventurous she is, and generally enjoys her rich able-bodied white privilege without having any introspection on how privileged she is.
I'm supposed to be reading this book for enjoyment, but I just don't enjoy myself in her company, so I'm giving up.(I'm shelving this on my gender nonfiction shelf because Steinbach spends a lot of time thinking about what it means to be a woman, not that I agree with her conclusions.
I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book. The author is a newspaper reporter, single mother, empty nester who decides to take a year-long sabbatical from work in order to travel and reassess who she is and what she wants out of life. Sound kind of familiar? It's like Eat, Pray, Lovebut published six years earlier and it won't make you want to strangle the author. I liked traveling along with Alice to Paris, London, Oxford, and Italy. True, her destinations aren't the most exotic, but she meets some interesting people.
