https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12521.Visions_of_Gerard
It's simply the story of his older brother Gerard, his life in the small French-Canadian town of Lowell, Massachusetts and his subsequent death at the age of four from Rheumatic fever.
The novel tells its story---that is to say it reviews the many small episodes of Gerard's last full year--as plainly and directly as Kerouac can get.
It becomes a tribute to a life lost well before it should have been.When reading the prominent Beat literature (i.e. On The Road), you get the stories, but there seems to be a concerted lack of sympathy.
By far Kerouac's most vivid, heartbreaking, and creative book.
It's the book where he had to do the most writing, the most composition, the most fabrication.
Gerard died when he was four--all of these "visions" had to be generated, as opposed to most of his other work which is more creative memoir.
This one actually purports to be a memoir, but couldn't be.
Kerouac takes the diaphanous shades of his memory and tries to build from them.
This is the book that should have shut Truman Capote up for good.
Why it just considered his best work I don't know.
Read in Kerouac: Visions of Cody, Visions of Gerard, Big Sur.This is a story about childhood and brothers.
Jack Kerouac wrote this book about his older brother, Gerard, who died at the young age of nine.
Jack clearly adored his brother, with Gerard pictured as a happy older brother who was wise beyond his years.
It's a heartbreaking story of grief and coping with death and existence.
I enjoyed this work by Kerouac more than some of his other writings.
Though the subject matter was different than other books he wrote, the writing style is clearly Kerouac.
This constant observation and absorption doesn’t leave much time to spend in a single place, a trait that serves Kerouac’s work well.However, Visions of Gerard (Penguin Non-Classics, ISBN: 0140144528) suffers from the same traits that make some of Keroauc’s other work a success.Capote’s Famous QuoteMost fans of Kerouac, or anyone who has taken even the tiniest look into beat-culture, have heard American author Truman Capote’s (1924-1984) quote about Kerouac’s work: That’s not writing, that’s typing.Maybe Capote just read Visions of Gerard.
Unfortunately, by the time Kerouac falls into his groove, the reader is already lost and uninterested, moving away from the same commonplace things that Kerouac rallies against in his other works.
The framework for this novel is the inevitable death of Kerouac's 9 year old, older brother, from an incurable sickness.
It could have been labeled an epoch poem, but poetry doesn't sell, not like novels.Truman Capote said Kerouac's stuff wasn't writing, it was typing.
Kerouac near the end, at the funeral, writes, "I want to express somehow, 'Here and Now, I see the ecstasy,' the divine and perfect ecstasy..." For me, I don't want to see ecstasy when God's Kingdom Comes; I want to see no more 9 year olds helplessly dying.
Then, it slowly fades away into memory....UNTIL, of course, your Dad unearths it from your basement, the one in the house you grew up in, and plops it down in front of you unexpectedly.
The smell of old New England must is all over it, and it brings you back to when you were young and growing up in the town next door from Ti Jean himself....a properly Proustian experience.Even though I've left Jack behind as a reader, he'll always have a special place in my heart.
Like an old, earnest, errant friend from highschool who still lives in the town you grew up in...

This book seems the most personal of Kerouac's I've read thus far.
More of his family, his home and the people closest to him, not some wayward adventure somewhere.
Yet it feels like he still held back at the same time, that there was more to say on the subject of his brother.
no doubt it effected him in a tremendous way (duh), and the mixture of Buddhist and Catholic beliefs on Kerouac's mind are integral with all of this as well.
The book is brief, tragic and sudden.
It's like a sort of destiny that the end comes at such a speed, one continuous thought.
"A few fall trees reach faint red twigs to it, smoke-smells wraith to twist like ghosts in noses of morning, the saw of Boisvert Lumberyard is heard to whine at a log and whop it, the rumble of junkmen's cart on Beaulieu Street, one little kid cry far off - souls, souls, the sky receives it all."
It added to the emotion of the book as his long sentences would aid in building up the anxiety of the situations in the story.As a Christian, I found the book sad, because I believe that God allows bad things to happen for our good, not to punish us.
Sometimes when bad things happen, we feel like God doesn't care about us.
Some of the characters in the book seemed to succumb to the hopeless feelings.
It seemed to me that the point of view that the story is told from (Jack's 4 yr old character) was somewhat helpful in reading it.
Visions of Gerard is a beautiful but painful read.
Kerouac is always, "into" whatever he's writing, but this one just delves so much deeper, and taps into the child-like innocence he meant to convey.
The concept of a child lost is never easy, but getting to know the sweet and sensitive Gerard makes you angry for his death.
Still, if you make it through this book once, then you'll occasionally want or need to go back and re-read Visions of Gerard, simply to remember that such lovely sweetness could ever exist.Come to think of it, no book has ever been so appropriately named as this one.
A romantic account of what it is like to grow up in a mill-town in New England. Also a beautiful tribute and imagining of life with his older brother, whom Kerouac was too young to truly know before he passed at such a young age.
truly his saddest and most evocative work. his ability to call upon childhood memories and weave them into this fictionalized autobiography is masterful.
At times, frustrating and annoying due to the writing style and language, but also touching, memorable and a tear-inducing "elegy" for his long lost nine year old elder brother.
Best read if you are a decently fast reader. It is stream of consciousness done supremely well, but if you stop to dwell it can leave you bewildered. I'm beginning to like Kerouac more and more.

In this early Kerouac you get tastes of the genius that will write On the Road - It is also a wonderful reminder that there are people like Gerard that we all need to seek out and enjoy during our limited time on this earth. Research for my third Omar T, "mystery lite," series, Omar T in San Francisco.
Es triste como todas las novelas de Kerouac pero me parece menos virtuosa. En esta ya había abrazado el budismo, la contemplación, por lo que está plagada de referencias religiosas aunque es sólo una herramienta literaria para narrar la muerte de su hermano Gerard. Lo que se agradece es que mantiene el frenesíy la honestidad en su narrativa, características presentes en la Generación Beat.
Es triste como todas las novelas de Kerouac pero me parece menos virtuosa. En esta ya había abrazado el budismo, la contemplación, por lo que está plagada de referencias religiosas aunque es sólo una herramienta literaria para narrar la muerte de su hermano Gerard. Lo que se agradece es que mantiene el frenesí´y la honestidad en su narrativa, características presentes en la Generación Beat.
Sad, with lots of Buddhist allusions.
One of the saddest books I've read
The saddest of all Jack Kerouac's books.
Kerouac's short tribute to his dead brother is lovingly written, awash in childhood nostalgia and the bizarre saintliness of dying young. One of his more personal and affecting works.
Awakened-hood -- Amazed recollection that from the very beginning I, whoever 'I' or whatever 'I' was, was destined, destined indeed to meet, learn understand Gerard and Savas and the Blessed Lord Buddha, (and my sweet Christ too through all his Paulinian tangles and bloody crosses of heathen violence) -- To awaken to pure faith in the bright one truth: All is Well, practice Kindness, Heaven is Nigh."This passage shows many of "Visions of Gerard's strengths and weakness -- the overblown, wordy language which also can be moving -- the focus on mystical religiosity, the author's self-indulgence, and, not least, Kerouac's love for his brother and his sorrow over his early death.
Kerouac describes the love of the two young brothers in scenes with the family cat, Gerard's mystical visions of heaven in parochial school, one of his confessions, and the progressively dehabilitating nature of his painful,fatal illness.
Thank goodness it was short. The long moments of Kerouac's philosophically abstract soliloquies outweigh the short moments of beautiful storytelling and poetic commentary Kerouac uses best in other stories.

”Visions of Gerard,” Jack Kerouac’s semi-autobiographical novel about his childhood around the time when his older brother died at the young age of 9 years old shows how traumatic death can be.
There is no question that Jack is using this book to mourn his brother who was taken from him at such an early age.
But as it is, it’s not a bad read, especially for someone who deals with questions of religion and death on a regular basis.
Kerouac's paean to his elder brother Gerard - who died from a rheumatic heart at age 10 - was neither as wussy as I expected, nor was it as rambly and self-indulgent as J.D. Salinger's similar work, Seymour: An Introduction.
Through a series of vignettes set in the year leading up to Gerard's passing and funeral, Kerouac does a fine job conveying the good-hearted, optimistic person his brother was, and makes a strong case for his admiration even years after the fact.
But in the grander scheme of the book, I feel like they make Gerard's death into a grander, death-of-innocence thing.
In its own beautiful way, Gerard evokes childhood without reaching to be something like the Stephen Dedalus of the first part of A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man.The chief success of Gerard is the way Kerouac assembles words and phrases.
While he can sometimes be annoying incoherent or even annoying with his attempted stream-of-consciousness, here, he is evocative, allowing the story of Gerard's death to flow like a memory, so that when it happens, even though you know it's coming, it's still something of a shock.
''Visions of Gerard'' is hard to read, some of the sentences needing a full overhaul.
''Visions of Gerard'' has none of that Beatnik magic that made me love him and I strongly believe that he had none of that inspiration which made ''On the Road'', ''Big Sur'' and ''The Dharma Bums'' literary ressources of popular quotes.
Though beautiful at times, giving a sensible overview of a fallen angel, most of the pages you will read are useless to the narrative, providing details which nobody needed to know excluding Kerouac.
I rarely get bored when I take a look at Kerouac's work, but reading ''Visions of Gerard'' was far from fascinating...
So I've been reading Kerouac's poetry after running across Michael McClure's article proclaiming that Kerouac's greatest achievement was not his novels but his poetry.
Suffice to say, returning to Kerouac's prose, I remember why I love his writing.
A "novel" seems to provide (me) the needed anchor of story and characters, and I can then follow (and appreciate) Kerouac's improvisations around the theme.
He seems less cutesy and more sincere; less out to impress and more writing his heart out.
Some beautiful writing here.
Looking forward to the next novel in the Duluoz legend, Dr. Sax.
