https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/897717.Burnt_Offerings
‘’Drive by the house you’re interested in at night, I say. Watch the windows. See if anybody’s watching for you there. And then drive home with the dome light on, and check that back seat as often as you can.It won’t be often enough.’’ Stephen Graham Jones I will readily admit that one of the things that bring me to the highest levels of anxiety is visiting a house I’ve never stepped foot into before. I’m 100% certain that I’ll sound like a superstitious ignorant, but bear with me:) Being quite
The house was beautifully decorated, in an old-fashioned but nostalgic and inspired way, the family has been friends of ours for years, so no worries there.
There was nothing dark in the history of the house and the family still lives there happily and yet, I’ve never experienced such an unpleasant (to put it mildly) feeling in an indoors space since that day.
The elderly siblings, the owners of the house, ask for a miniscule price and the only obligation the family has is to prepare a tray for the ‘’darling’’ mother who lives in the remotest part of the local floor, unseen by all who have rented the estate throughout the years.
The house is full of all the wonderful things that Marian can only dream of every possessing.
Part of the stipulations is that Marian has to feed the matriarch of the family, Mrs. Allardyce, the glorious mother, three times a day by leaving a tray for her outside her ornately carved door.
He starts to know with more and more certainty that he needs to get away from this place, whether Marian wants to go or not.
This book makes the cut for most lists of Best Haunted House novels or even Best All-Time Horror Novels.
I can't say enough good things about this incredible haunted house story!
It was fast paced.
It was chilling.
It was vividly real.
It was atmospheric.
This is one of the best haunted house tales I've EVER read.
Perhaps it's not as literary as The Haunting of Hill House, but it makes up for that with amazing imagery punctuated with scenes of such a chilling nature that my hands actually trembled while reading them.
If you're looking for a haunted house tale with an ending that doesn't disappoint, this is THE book for you.
When the Rolfe family finds a beach house for the summer for only $900, it seems too good to be true.
This one caught my eye when I was perusing that sacred text one day and I eventually took the plunge.Burnt Offerings is a slow-burn haunted house store, emphasis on the slow.
Most of the gripes I had with The Shining are here as well.Now that I have my gripes out of the way early, I wound up enjoying the book once the pace picked up.
Hands down, the best dream-house turned nightmare chiller ever. A classic.
The thing that I like about this novel is that it is not a hungry house itself but a certain family that goes crazy and freak out with nasty nudges from the monster mansion. How could small things lead us into destruction so easily (unfortunately with the help of an uncanny thing),just when we feel stressed out?This story doesn’t contain bloody scenes,but there is definitely something about it that chills me to the marrow every time I read. A superb psycho thriller with a bad aftertaste.
This is one of those, in which the house takes the center stage for a young couple, Ben and Marian Rolfe, who desperately wanted to escape the stifling heat in their tiny Brooklyn apartment and need a place to go for the summer holiday.
The best haunted house novels, they grow their walls up around you, they give you a place to live, if you dare.Open this book, step in.
Life was just beautiful and worth living!I think the next author should try to write a novel in which the reader is pulled into the pages, get strangled in the captivating words, and then introduce that house of horrors to the unsuspecting mind.
This stands among my top ten "haunted house" stories, easily--among others such as Hill House, The Elementals, and The Shining.The best part for myself in Robert Marasco's novel is the slowly building tension and atmospheric terror that I could get from just about every page!
(view spoiler)[ I never thought that looking at something as innocent as a framed picture could give me actual goosebumps!
(hide spoiler)] This story just kept on delivering the chills all the way through to the end.
Yes, the movie version was great, but do yourself a favor and pick up the actual novel--there is so much more awaiting you behind those walls....
I listened to this audio for the  HA Audiobook Group Read  Come and join us!Marian is a 70’s housewife and she is tired of city life and coerces her husband, Ben, into checking out a summer rental with a beach that is far from the sweltering heat, stink and noise of the city.
Marian immediately takes to the home as if it were her own, obsessively preparing meals for Mother and cleaning and fretting (which sounds like a vacation in Hell to me) while Ben, his aunt and their young son fritter away their days in the sun.
Obsession & Possession- 5 stars...This was one of the best haunted house stories I've ever read!
They present them with an offer they can't refuse though so they move in and take possession of the house but they'll come to find out that the house has taken possession of them; and as Marian's obsession with the house intensifies and her will to choose her family over the house is slowly taken from her, the house comes back to life...Sometimes I find the endings to haunted house stories can be kind of hokey but I thought this one was very satisfying.
The premise isn't bad, as horror novels go: little urban family rents a beautiful, if sadly dilapidated, grand house in the country for summer vacation, and they slowly come to discover there's an evil presence in the house which automatically rejuvenates it under just the right conditions.The "evil house" concept has been used by more than one author to advantage, but that's not really the problem with this particular book.
And Marasco simply didn't take the time to make me care about anyone in the family.
Before finding the main house, the family comes upon a ruined summer cottage; the son swears he saw a tricycle covered in dried blood next to the place.
After years of being out of print, the novel was re-released two years ago in a variety of formats - allowing us to finally experience it again.In Burnt Offerings, Marian Rolfe - wife of Ben and mother of David - tries desperately to get her family out of the overcrowded and unbearable borough of Queens in New York City, which she dearly hates.
I thought I'd read it over the next few days, along with some other reads, but pretty soon I was at 25% and then 50% and then I was huddling under the blanket last night to keep from waking up Mr. Marsh with my Kindle light and couldn't stop reading until it was done.A young family needs a break from the city and gets a great deal on a house in the country.
Grandma comes with the house!You can imagine what ensues from there.
Great writing, a really interesting dynamic between the family members and a haunted house plot with a slow burn.
This novel is basically a classic definition of insidious horror. It manages to unsettle, disturb and scare without relying on gore, violence or any other typical horror trappings. It's sort of in a class of its own, the mixture of a haunted house and a possession story that works so well in no small part due to the excellent writing. It's quite remarkably not all that dated (with exception of real estate rentals, of course) for a 40 year old book. Recommended.
Completely unsettling and disturbing!Ben (rather reluctantly), Marian, and their young child David go with Ben's Aunt Elizabeth to an old and sprawling mansion in upstate New York for the summer.
The house, which belongs to a pair of adult siblings, The Allardyces, seems too good to be true: For an incredibly low price, the family can stay in the home for the entire summer.
Once settled into the mansion, Marian becomes obsessed with it, and the rest of her family starts to suffer, and transform, under a mysterious malevolence.EDIT: Someone asked me how is the story disturbing and unsettling.
Burnt offerings is a classic of a book from the same guy that wrote about a catholic boys school.
This book of his "Burnt Offerings" is spooky haunted house read.
The pace is set with a relaxed feel that soon evolves you into a suspenseful feel.
Well written and very good char's I was very impressed to begin with.
HOWEVER, the ending made me feel blah.
I was expecting a better ending with the build up.
But I loved how it left me with a Must know feeling at work I personally love book's like that.
Reprinted by Valancourt books, this makes for a good Haunted house read.
One of THE best haunted house stories ever written! Burnt Offerings is a dated yet classic take on a haunted house, a hungry house. (Great Introduction by Stephen Jones.) Written in 1973, his novel was not widely known. The film adaptation however, established its cult following. And those who have a copy in their possession can attest its awesomeness!  If it seems too good to be true, it probably is. We all want to get away, more so when summer approaches! Marian Rolfe can’t take it anymore in
Pool, private deck, dock — “[You know where this is heading…]So Ben (reluctantly) and Marian (excitedly) Rolfe finally decide this is the time.
An eccentric pair, they quibble amongst themselves on the price and what they consider “unique”, and “perfect for a large family”.“Unique summer home.
Pool, private deck, dock — “ at $900 for the entire summer!
They begin to convince them – and are convinced – this is the perfect home for Marian, for them all, while sharing thoughts of nostalgia the grand mansion has been a part of throughout its years.And of course there’s a catch.
Not as good as you want it to be, but this is the most important haunted house book of the Seventies. Here's why.
Review of Burnt Offerings by Robert Marasco Burnt Offerings, by Robert Marasco, is far from your typical haunted house story.
Ben and Marian Rolfe decide to get away from the city for the summer with their son David and aunt Elizabeth.
When Marian finds an ad to rent a mansion in the country for the summer at a reasonable price, it seems too good to be true.
And there’s a catch… The house is indeed reasonably priced but comes with the Allardyces’ elderly mother.
It’s an odd request but one that Marian doesn’t think unreasonable for the use of such a lavish house to live in for the summer.
What scares me most, as a horror reader, is not gore or on-screen frights; what gets under my skin is the unseen.
The imagination is a helluva thing, and mine is good at creating terrors worse than what is usually on the page.
instead, it relies on the reader using his or her own imagination to fill in the blanks.
Burnt Offerings is one such novel.
This is quiet horror at its finest.
But, of course, some things are too good to be true .
. .A rather unrelenting descent into obsession and insanity, this novel is a force to be reckoned with and should get more recognition.
Ben, aware of their budget and skeptical, indulges her by going to look at some prospects.
One of the most chilling aspects of the story is the slow but steady growth of her understanding of what the house is and what it wants from her, and even worse, her acceptance and embrace of it.
Her greed and ambition, such tiny seeds at the beginning of the story, grow inexorably in the nurturing environment of the house until they finally eclipse everything else in her life that matters.
There’s nothing more. Nothing. It’s all in order now. All the way it should be. And there’s nothing, nothing at all left. What an amazing deal on a great summer mansion. Can’t pass that up. One catch – need to feed the old lady behind the crazy carved doors three times a day. Not a problem. Until it becomes one.A little slow going at times, but genuinely creepy and unsettling throughout. Reads like it was written in the 70’s. Because it was. Duh.I don’t recall ever seeing the movie. Hmm. Maybe
There’s nothing more. Nothing. It’s all in order now. All the way it should be. And there’s nothing, nothing at all left.
  What an amazing deal on a great summer mansion. Can’t pass that up. One catch – need to feed the old lady behind the crazy carved doors three times a day. Not a problem. Until it becomes one.A little slow going at times, but genuinely creepy and unsettling throughout. Reads like it was written in the 70’s. Because it was. Duh.I don’t recall ever seeing the movie. Hmm. Maybe I’ll have to check it out.
It was missing the dust cover and in fact, my head-bent-sideways scan of book titles almost didn't catch it; it was a quick thought, "wouldn't it be funny if I finally found Burnt Offerings" and right on the heels of that, there it was.I could barely wait to get home and read it.And after having done so?
Wow. This book was pretty great. Its about a house, but its haunted in an unusual way. The beginning and end were very mysterious, but towards the end, it got a little slow and muddled. The end was quite abrupt. However, the ending was good and surprising. If there was a little more explanation about the house and the owners, it would have been a 5.
4.5*
RTC 🙂
Ben and Marian Rolfe want to get out of their apartment and go somewhere far away for the Summer months.
When Ben and Marian go to check out the mansion, they meet the owners who seem way beyond eccentric and they seem to really want the Rolfes to stay there.
Marian was all for staying there, but Ben had very mixed feelings and really didn't want to stay in the mansion.At that point on from when the owners left to the Rolfes exploring their newly acquired domain, little things start happening in the house.
Burnt Offerings, by Robert Marasco, is far from your typical haunted house story.
Ben and Marian Rolfe decide to get away from the city for the summer with their son David and aunt Elizabeth.
When Marian finds an ad to rent a mansion in the country for the summer at a reasonable price, it seems too good to be true.
And there’s a catch… The house is indeed reasonably priced but comes with the Allardyces’ elderly mother.
It’s an odd request but one that Marian doesn’t think unreasonable for the use of such a lavish house to live in for the summer.
Robert Marasco is a man who knew obsession.
Solid family-is-haunted-possessed-by-eeeevil-house story, if not a little campy at times, especially with some of the dialogue.
Glad I read it.
Now I need to track down the Karen Black/Oliver Reed film.ASIDE: I bought a used copy and while I was reading a little note fell out of the book.
The note: "Happy Halloween!
This book is just right for the special day!
I don't know if it's good for you to read a horror-type novel now.
Have a nice day!
Love + kisses, Pat"I give the note 3.5 stars as well and it's pretty darn creepy too.
In fact, I was pleasantly amazed that a lot of the dialogue in the novel made it verbatim to the screen ("Life sure as hell goes on, doesn't it Marion?")!There were also a few unexpected differences, one in particular was particularly awesome:(view spoiler)[Marion seeing Aunt Elizabeth's photo in the sitting room (hide spoiler)]and(view spoiler)[Marion, despite the hold the house had on her, still fought with the presence of mind that this was wrong, wasn't it?
(hide spoiler)]One thing I will never know is what sort of impact this novel would have had had I not seen the movie.
