https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12890.Barabbas
Powerful and deeply moving, this novel offers a unique, detached perspective on religion and faith, as a parable that is as poignant today as it was back in the religious persecution days of ancient Rome while being able to reach a reader despite any personal religious beliefs.Lagerkvist built a fruitful career around challenging morality and faith within his readers.
This novel will challenge all beliefs and portray the world as a cruel, indifferent place as we follow Barabbas on his journey.The idea of faith is the pulse of this novel.
More often than not, they'll ban them for raising uncomfortable questions in the minds of children who have not yet been conditioned to follow the proper path.
Of what could have resulted without it.The New York Times and Time Magazine both referred to it as a parable.
The 'conveying a truth, religious principle, moral lesson, or meaning' part, though.
The question has always fascinated me, though.
If this book doesn't make you question whatever shield you have chosen, I would be worried.
It doesn't matter that this is framed within the context of one of many religions.
Banning is a bit much, but temperance.
Telling people that this man went through agony, and then died, on your behalf, whether you like it or not, is a heavy load to lay on someone and entails a serious amount of what I suppose psychologists would call guilt.What's very clever about this book is that Pär Lagerkvist has found a way to examine this idea which works whether or not you believe in the metaphysics: Barabbas, the man acquitted in Jesus's place, is someone in whom the central myth of Christianity is literally true.They spoke of his having died for them.
Since he is living because Jesus died for him, he has a very direct connection with him, he is closer to Christ than anybody else and can't get him out of his mind.
And thus, even miracles he comes across aren't enough for him to believe in a messiah he doesn't understand.As I said Barabbas is only a pivot thoigh, the story is just as much about characters around him.
Anyways, the point being that like Barabbas, the early Christian folks seem to be mere everymen lacking any charisma whatsoever.
So, what chance than did the followers had of understanding the divine message?
"I have no god", Barabbas answered at last..."Why then do you bear this "Christos Iesus" carved on your disk?""Because I want to believe", Barabbas said..." He wanted to believe. But he did not understand."Love one another" - that's what they said the message of the crucified man was. Love one another - now what could that mean to Barabbas's simple mind? What could love mean to Barabbas who had been hated even by his mother from the moment he drew his first breath? Who had never felt any emotio
"I have no god", Barabbas answered at last..."Why then do you bear this "Christos Iesus" carved on your disk?""Because I want to believe", Barabbas said..."
But he did not understand."Love one another" - that's what they said the message of the crucified man was.
He could not believe in the messiah that many others had faith in.
On the other, there were followers who knew of the messiah only from hearsay, yet believed in him strongly enough to part with their lives in his name.
I read this as a story about a man's inner struggle.
افضل رواية يمكن أن تقرأها تجسد الصراع الداخلي ما بين الكفر والإيمان حالة الشك وما بين الإيمان ونقيضه قصة باراباس الرجل الذي أطلق سراحه فيم أعدم المسيح.. رائعة
وأخذوا يَتَّهِمونَهُ فيقولونَ وجَدْنا هذا الرَّجُلَ يثيرُ الفِتنَةَ في شَعبِنا، ويَمنَعُهُ أنْ يدفَعَ الجِزيَةَ إلى القَيصَرِ، ويَدَّعي أنَّهُ المسيحُ المَلِكُ.
4. فقالَ بِـيلاطُسُ لِرُؤساءِ الكَهنَةِ والجُموعِ لا أجِدُ جُرمًا على هذا الرَّجُلِ 5.
فقالَ لهُم ثالثةً أيَّ شَرٍّ فعَلَ هذا الرَّجُلُ لا أجِدُ علَيهِ ما يَستَوجِبُ بِه الموتَ.
دختر به آن مرد که پسر خدا می خواندَش و باراباس او را مرده مینامید ایمان آورده بود. باراباس از دختر پرسید آن مرد براستی چه چیزی تعلیم میداد. دختر مدتی ساکت ماند و بعد با زمزمهای نامفهوم گفت: "یکدیگر را دوست بدارید آنگونه که من شما را دوست میدارم". - از متنکتاب شرح حال باراباس از بدو آزادی تا لحظه مرگ را روایت می کند و در این اثنا دو نقطه اتکای تاریخی دارد، یکی آزادی باراباس بهجای مسیح در دادگاه والی رومی و دیگری توطئه برعلیه مسیحیان در امپراطوری روم. باقی مطالب داستانپردازی نویسنده محسوب میشود. ب
این واقعه در بخش پایانی اناجیل و در قسمت کوتاهی اینچنین آمده است رسم والی بر اين بود که هنگام عيد يک زندانی را به انتخاب مردم آزاد سازد.
پس هنگامی که مردم گرد آمدند، پيلاتس از آنها پرسيد: چه کسي را مي‌خواهيد برايتان آزاد کنم، باراباس را يا عيسای معروف به مسيح را؟ اين را از آن‌‌رو گفت که می‌دانست عيسي را از سرِ رشک به او تسليم کرده‌اند.
عیسی به طور ضمنی به ایشان گفته بود باراباس را آزاد کنید و مرا به صلیب بیاویزید -از متن کتابمگر مفهوم مسیحی فیض آن بخششی نیست که به شخصی اعطا می‌شود که به هیچ‌عنوان لیاقت آن را ندارد و رایگان است برای دریافت کننده ولی پربها برای اهدا کننده؟ هللویا!

Arricchisco la mia collezione di romanzi di argomento biblico con questo vangelo secondo Barabba.
Durante la lettura mi sono interrogato molto sul protagonista, un vero misantropo.
Un personaggio notevole, raccontato con molta economia e perciò ammantato di mistero.
L'incontro con Gesù-incontro a distanza- lo segna.
Una possibilità non concessagli, che lo tormenterà per tutta la vita rendendola peggiore, se possibile.L'autore svela poco dei suoi trascorsi, ma con un piglio da narratore onnisciente, che non trova eguali nel resto del romanzo, svela un dettaglio che nessun personaggio del romanzo può conoscere.
A parte questo, un'ottima lettura.
Cupa, bruta, scontrosa, ingrata, soffocante, ottima.

You have to feel sorry for him, for through no will or desire or intention of his own he finds himself in the center of one of the most momentous events in human history - his life is spared and Jesus is crucified - but this "resurrection" of Barabbas only makes his life more difficult as he's unprepared to process all the metaphysical implications of the event.
It's the story of a poor wretch who finds himself in a world that is suddenly beyond his understanding.Lagerkvist's spare and simple prose is the perfect medium for this subject matter.
لما تركتني؟ ( كلمات تنافي كمال الربوبية فهي إنسانية حقيقية مشككة من فم النبي ستُصعب مهمة المعتنق لديانة جديدة يبشر لها حتمًا، وهي مدعاة للتأمل تمنيت لو أفسح لها مجالاً في الرواية ) كلمات باراباس وهو معلق على الصليب و يخاطب الظلام الذي سيتلقف روحه :إليك أسلم روحي ..( ما الذي انتصر في باراباس في نهاية يومه ؟خير الغد أم شره؟ ) هل ثمة نسبة شك في كل يقين مهما كان قويًا؟ وثمة يقين في قلب كل شك ؟
Like a lost gnostic gospel (The Gospel of Christ according to Barabbas?), this novel strums the chords of belief, regret, yearning and loss. Using the death and resurrection of Christ as the backdrop for the released prisoner Barabbas's story is clever and there are many unique and ineresting fictions created by Lagerkvist to tell his hero's tale.It might have been the translation, but Lagerkvist's writing style didn't resonate with me at all. I'm not ready to give up on him; I'll try a couple of his other works with different translators before moving on.
It follows him through his life after the pardon, as he witnesses at first hand the rise of the cult of Jesus as it develops from an obscure Jewish sect into a faith that will threaten and eventually subvert the mighty Roman empire.Whilst not a believer, time and time again Barabbas is drawn to the persecuted group, fascinated as to why a man's life and death could evoke such devotion and sacrifice.
In the end he is swept up in a round of persecution and dies with a group of Christians.Throughout the story Barabbas is portrayed as an outsider, cursed by what he is, what he has done and what he has witnessed.
The people however clamored for the release of Barabbas, a murderer and an insurrectionist, and called for Jesus' crucifixion.
I was hoping the fictional post-crucifixion Barabbas would realize that it was not really that he caused Jesus' death, it was rather that this death spared him his life.
Maybe he thought that wouldn't be true to Barabbas' character who had no philosophy but only a neverending perplexed agony.What happened to him after he was released?
You'll never be able to guess where Lagerkvist would take Barabbas until the end which was as harrowing as the crucifixion of us all would be.
Questo Dio sfuggente è costantemente presente nell’opera di Lagerkvist, esplorato in tutte le sue possibili concezioni e rappresentazioni, con accanimento e con profondità vertiginosa.In questo romanzo la figura di Barabba è contraddittoria: egli agisce come entità autonoma, concepisce solo se stesso e nessun altro; non sa fidarsi di quel che vede, né tantomeno legarsi a qualcuno.
Ed esalò lo spirito.Le stesse parole che aveva sentito tanti anni prima, quando – in disparte, come sempre – fu testimone della crocifissione di Cristo.
The second time, the child wants to know what happened to Barabbas afterwards.
Everyone wants to know what happened to Barabbas including those who should not.
He understands that his reader wants to know what purpose God had in mind for Barabbas.
Did Barabbas ever come to believe in Christ?
Was he saved?Lagerkvist's Barabbas wants to believe in Christ but his nature prevents him from accepting a God who preaches love and forgiveness.
After having lured the reader in with the promise of telling the story of Barabbas, Lagerkvist finally chooses not to tell the reader what happened to him at the end.
Barabbas sees the death of Jesus but lets others convince him that what he saw was not real. When he comes to realize that the story is true he finds himself in the same position as Jesus...but this time he is ready to accept the truth.
باراباس لـ بار لاغركفيست مـن روايات نوبل 1951.مَن هو باراباس؟ " فَدَعَا بِيلاَطُسُ رُؤَسَاءَ الْكَهَنَةِ وَالْعُظَمَاءَ وَالشَّعْبَ، وَقَالَ لَهُمْ [متحدثاً عن يسوع]:«قَدْ قَدَّمْتُمْ إِلَيَّ هذَا الإِنْسَانَ كَمَنْ يُفْسِدُ الشَّعْبَ.
وَهَا أَنَا قَدْ فَحَصْتُ قُدَّامَكُمْ وَلَمْ أَجِدْ فِي هذَا الإِنْسَانِ عِلَّةً مِمَّا تَشْتَكُونَ بِهِ عَلَيْهِ.
وَكَانَ مُضْطَرًّا أَنْ يُطْلِقَ لَهُمْ كُلَّ عِيدٍ وَاحِدًا، فَصَرَخُوا بِجُمْلَتِهِمْ قَائِلِينَ:«خُذْ هذَا!
وَأَطْلِقْ لَنَا بَارَابَاسَ!» وَذَاكَ كَانَ قَدْ طُرِحَ فِي السِّجْنِ لأَجْلِ فِتْنَةٍ حَدَثَتْ فِي الْمَدِينَةِ وَقَتْل." لوقا 23: 13- 25 .باراباس، المجرم الذي ٲُطلق سراحه و صلب المسيح عوضاً عنه.
باراباس الذي كان يخاف الموت، كيف تراهُ قد ذهب لمقبرة الیهود!
"من تريدون أن أُطلق لكم. باراباس أم يسوع الذي يُدعى المسيح.. فقالوا باراباس" (متى 17:27و21)."الجميع يعلم كيف عُلقوا، هناك، على الصلبان، ومن كانوا مجتمعين وقوفًا حوله: مريم أمه، ومريم المجدلية، وفيرونيكا، وسمعان القيرواني، الذي حمل الصليب، ويوسف الرامة الذي كفنه. لكن على مبعدة يسيرة أسفل السفح، أو بالحرىّ إلى جنب، كان يقف رجل مثبَّت العينين على المحتضر في الوسط، يراقب النزاع من اللحظة الأولى حتى الأخيرة. كان اسمه باراباس، هذا الكتاب عنه."رواية بين الإيمان والكُفر، قصة عن باراباس لص والمناضل، بارا

Scrissi il 18 marzo 2017 su anobiiDio è morto[Di Pär Fabian Lagerkvist, il va sans dire, non conoscevo nemmeno il nome ma grazie alla “mia terza pagina anobina”, venni a sapere di un tris imperdibile: mi piacque il titolo “Il boia” ma mi ritrovai con due gentili doni: Il Nano e Barabba.
Vuole essere lo scienziato che trova la formula per dimostrare la validità di un teorema: non si potrà mai credere se non per cieca fede.Le condizioni per la conversione in Barabba, infatti, ci sono tutte: viene graziato a furor di popolo al posto di quel piccolo uomo che seguirà, nascosto, fino al suo spirare sulla croce e che seguirà alla tomba vegliando sulla resurrezione a cui non crederà nemmeno quando la vede vuota.Seguirà furtivo i seguaci per carpirne il segreto della fede; sarà testimone del loro caritatevole comportamento.
With Barabbas, my reading of the in-print English editions of Lagerkvist's works is—sadly—complete.
I started with The Dwarf, continued with the stories in The Marriage Feast, and recently read The Sibyl.
Barabbas, the story of the man who was sentenced to death but for whom Jesus Christ was crucified at the last moment instead, ranks with Lagerkvist's better writing.I have several of his others works in electronic form, so I'll happily continue reading Lagerkvist—even if I cannot physically order it anymore (people suck).
Lagerkvist, Lagerkvist, how no one reads you anymore... which is totally sad because you're a brilliant Lutheran-damaged existentialist. Or as I described it to my friend recently, Camus and Hamsun doing a London bridge on Kierkegaard. Barabbas, much like his masterful "The Sibyl," is based on a Bible story, so, despite its slenderness, still contains and handles epic themes. A wonderful meditation on guilt, faith, and the mysterious forces of the world.
It is not only written sparingly, but doesn't really seem to hold more than the bare words that are strung together.When picking this book from the shelf, I was looking for a portrait of the psychological torments a man like Barabbas might go through.
The story moves quickly, Lagerkvist doesn't linger on nearly anything, and we do not learn much about the inner world of Barabbas.
Things happen, but we don't register them, there is no importance applied to anything, and you can't help but wonder what Lagerkvist is here to tell.
Barabbas, the only man for whom Jesus literally died.Barabbas, described in the gospels as an insurrectionist and murderer, was brought before a crowd of angry Jews and was chosen to be set free; Jesus was chosen to be crucified on a tree.
So begins a novel of antitheses.
Barabbas watches Jesus on the cross in wonder; a mysterious light is emitted from the crucified man; darkness seems to be chained to the ransomed murderer.
This is a powerful novel about faith (or lack thereof), guilt, and freedom (or lack thereof).From some unknown movie.
Guess which one is Barabbas and which one is Jesus.
excelente!
جرجر نفسه ، نصف واع ، على المنزلق ، وصعد ليكون بين الكروم .هناك تمدد على الأرض ، يستريح ، ويصعّد بصره إلى قبة السماء المظلمة .الظلام في كل مكان .
ولم يكن هذا الإحساس بسبب أن أحدا لم يمش بجانبه ، أو يمر به ، لكن بسبب أنه وحيد في ليل لا نهائي يطبق على الأرض جمعاء ، وحيد في السماوات والأرض ، وحيد بين الأحياء والأموات .
لقد كان هكذا دوما ، لكنه لم يدرك ذلك إلا الآن .
أجل كان وحيدا في السماوات والأرض .لقد غرق في نفسه ، في مملكة موتاه الخاصة .

وبين المجرم المحكوم بالإعدام الذي لم يترك خطأً واحداً على هذه الأرض لم يرتكبه ..
نضيع في تفاصيل التاريخ والقدر الذي أبدع بارلا في صياغتها لتشعر نفسك وأنك داخل تلك الحقبة من الزمن ..
فأنت المجرم المحكوم بالإعدام السكير الضائع ابن السبية وقاتل أبيه تخرج طليقاً وتدخل التاريخ لا لإجرامك !!
بل لقمايضة حياتك بمن صنع التاريخ ..
كيف لك أن تستوعب كل هذا الحدث وتعيشه وأنت ترى أمامك شخصاً يجر صليبه بقدمين مرتعشتين وجسد واهن امتلأ بالجروح والآلام يذهب للموت فاتحاً ذراعيه له !
فلابد لهذا الحدث الإلهي الذي لم تؤهل لفهمه منذ بداية خلقك أن يقلب حياتك رأساً على عقب وأن تبقى مذهولاً بأسئلة لا ولم تجد لها أجوبة
