https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/137979.Against_Method
This is a challenging book to review.
The obvious problems are bad enough: Feyerabend quotes extensively from a multitude of authors that I know poorly or not at all, including philosophers of science (Popper, Kuhn, Lakatos, Carnap, Duhem), other philosophers (Protagoras, Aristotle, Plato, Kant, Heidegger, Marx, Lenin), scientists, most of whom he claims to have read in the original (Galileo, Copernicus, Tycho Brahe, Newton, Einstein, Bohr) and classical literature (Homer, also in the original).
Thank goodness that I had at least read Wittgenstein thoroughly, so I didn't feel like a complete ignoramus.
But if it were only the extensive range of sources, I wouldn't feel so worried.
Against Method is a unsystematic book which doesn't always posit an argument so much as ask a lot of questions.
-And how are we to use the sciences and who decides the matter?Feyerabend's main assertion is that science and the 'scientific method' are not inherently objective, and that their results and methods are largely dependent upon social contexts.
Feyerabend says that this would not have been possible had Galileo stuck with the old method, and that Galileo had to use evidence that the old theories would not even have considered.
This book should not be mistaken for a systematic approach on how to redefine science and the scientific method.
As existing methodologies are predicated on falsified facts (agreed) , scientists must take a step back and re-examine and re-construct the so called building blocks of theorems in order to arrive at a new experience of reality, even if recontextualizing methodological qualia means introducing irrational alternatives.
De Bono tries much, much harder, but even his findings do not validate an approach or method of being creative/innovative: at best, he comes up with a few ideas/methods of preventing the being of non-creative: which is a very different thing altogether.However, in as much as scientific progress has been the product of non-linear sidestep rather than top bottom ‘leaps’, then even without the learned triple axis’s postulations, this ‘anarchistic’ epistemology is already naturally occurring.
This has nothing to do with the scientific method of hypothesis -> prediction -> testing with data, yet the publication I write follows this structure (I also do not list the 499 things I tried, thereby "inventing" a story that is cleaner than reality).
Yet a large part of my work is playing around in an R console, looking for fun things, making pretty pictures, and drinking free coffee.Where I don't agree with Feyerabend in the slightest is his demand to split science from politics - I can understand where he's coming from, I guess up until the 80s the results of science where set in stone.
I read Feyerabend because I know he's a critical figure in the philosophy of science, not because I expected to agree with anything he said.
Feyerabend's line of thought seems to be that if "anything goes" (as he glibly puts it) in science, science has no special claims to knowledge and that other ways of knowing should be respected.
But I have great respect for Feyerabend as a thinker and researcher, and reading him is a bit like having a good intellectual sparring partner.
Taking a radically different perspective on the aesthetics of what theory is, Feyerabend attack one of the scared cows of science and mathematics -- that of consistency.In some ways, Feyerabend could have raised objections more metaphysically -- that ideas have at their germination roots outside of a given domain -- that culture plays a role in utilizing domains in one area to influence another -- that science is a socially generated practice, on that mistakes methodology for reality -- but in other ways, Feyerabend does well by sticking very close to his topic.
He discusses the ways in which new theories by definition violate reason, ignore or distort facts and observations as understood by the current paradigm, and essentially bootstrap themselves into a position of greater empirical content and, ultimately, scientific legitimacy.From here he moves on to argue that there is no such unitary thing as 'science' at all, only a series of different endeavors utilizing different, permanently incompatible sets of theories and practices.
Feyerabend spends nearly half a book on Galileo and his astronomical observations as a paradigmatic example of how science is in fact anarchic rather than methodical.
What is debatable is to what extent rules can be broken, and how often this actually occurs, but no where are these issues resolved.What Feyerabend has done is similar to what many philosophers do when presented with writing a book: throw into 300 pages every paper he's ever published about a given topic hoping it will all add up to a coherent master-thesis.
Using Galileo as a case study, he demonstrates that so-called scientific revolutions also invariably break with pre-given logical structures, such that the scientific method is violated as a matter of course, and re-written each time.
As a consequence, propagandists (like Galileo) fare very well.
Propagandists are, in fact, necessary for scientific progress.As a conclusion, he suggests that there should be a separation between state and science, as between state and religion.
In that sense I'm not entirely ready to accept his program of "scientific anarchy," but his points on method are well taken nevertheless, and he's 100% right about the messy, social world of scientific discovery.
Feyerbend argues that a lot of the stuff that religion is so good at illuminating are things that science has nothing to say about and if it did try to invade these domains we would be worse off for it.
Feyerbend takes a cue from Kuhn about how science progresses.
Kuhn claimed that there are periods of "normal science" that are upset by revolutionary shifts.
Most people who argue against him make appeals to his arguments helping "the enemies of science," which is the kind of argument that pretty much proves Feyerbend's point in the first place.
Getting down to the main positions Feyerabend takes in this work it's easy to sum them up pretty briefly: There's no set of unwavering and indubitable rules or methods that science actually utilizes in practice; Scientific theories are often incommensurable in that they are composed of fundamentally different concepts that are not reducible to a common measure; Science as a whole has unduly been given a special status in society that it does not deserve, and it's just another ideology and should consequently be separated from the state like religion.Okay--I'll say at the outset that the incommensurability of scientific theories is a fascinating concept and one that I'm really not informed enough to have any substantive opinion.
A wise scientist will then challenge the theory and assert something new, and when science fails to accomodate new facts it becomes stagnant and stifles progress.
His theory is that we should allow all sides of this scientific issue to be debated, not censor unsavory opinions, and then make sure schools remain a place for the open forum of all ideas, and eventually if we do this, the position with the stronger factual basis will win out.
Any attempt to censor an idea, however unpopular it is, will result in stifling human progress.
After reading Kuhn and Lakatos, Feyerabend comes with a radical new approach for descriptive and prescriptive attributes of science. Instead of keeping science confined in its own little community Feyerabend breaks boundaries and intertwines disciplines. He stretches science to include political messages and is bountiful with scientific examples (though may be dreary sometimes.)Although I do not agree with all that he says, in some parts he is too radical for me, and I am not on-board for his view of incommensurability, it was still a fascinating, eye-opening read.
Has very little to do with anarchism.
A Brecht stage hand who refutes scientific method and sticks his thumb in the eyes of the high priests of science. It's something to behold, I say.
Again, this means that scientific progress comes by way of adopting pluralistic strategies; to embrace the myriad routes, both secular and non-secular, in discovering truth and to avoid those cemented, fashionable dogmas of antiquity.---------------------------------------------Further thoughts on the need for Epistemological Anarchism“Given science, reason cannot be universal and unreason cannot be excluded.”Feyerabend argues that the tenets of critical rationalism (avoid ad hoc hypotheses, examine the seriousness of falsifications) and the tenets of logical positivism (base your theories on empirical measurements, avoid inconsistent ideas)—each which subsumes a so-called “rational” methodology of the natural sciences—fails to account for how science has actually operated throughout the centuries.Broken down, the natural sciences have always been connected with theory, experiment and observation.
Great joke.
Feyerabend posits that historically speaking scientific advances are often made by going AGAINST prevailing reason and being counterinductive and constructing ad hoc hypotheses to fit phenomena that is later on explained in a better way.
Towards the end he calls the Strong Programme in the sociology of scientific knowledge "deconstruction gone mad" which makes me question if he's ever read Derrida or if he's just hitching onto Kuhn's (and philosophers of science) at large's opinion.
Other than that though, read this for a counterintuitive yet fascinating look at how science is and has been historically done.
The strengths of opponents and weaknesses of the idea are lost and what once had to be qualified and carefully argued as an "enemy theory" is now taken for granted and may even be taken as platitude.-Mainstream theory is so crystallized in education that it becomes taken for granted and no longer carefully examined or criticized.-Like the humanities, science must encourage debate and theory in class (for example, a TA might lead with "Can you explain inheritance without genetics in an attractive way?).ACQUIRING KNOWLEDGE-Experience and observation are colored by perceptual tools, prevailing theory, culture, and the intricacies of the human brain, at the very least.-Intellectual play makes science more productive and more fun.-Adventurers consult maps but also ignore then "correct" them.-Results are starting points for further explanation.
These examples might create the impression that he attacks the most uncertain parts of science, but you have to remember that everything was as uncertain as these examples at some time and there is always a chance that some new discovery can alter the way we view the now undisputed events.Another problem that appears when we believe in events that are independent of our theories is that there are some terms so integrated in our language that define the way we see things.
They are particularly important, he believes, in the challenging of fundamental assumptions which leads to 'revolutions'.A major part of the book is taken up with brilliant analysis of the example he uses to underpin most of his argument, the writings of Galileo in which he sought to establish the Copernican system as against the accepted Ptolemaic one, and in particular to prove that the earth moves despite immediate appearances.Feyerabend exposes the logical poverty and propagandist nature of Galileo's argument most convincingly.
Lacking Lakatos's counter-arguments as balance, Feyerabend here reads as more provocative and idealistic than he may otherwise intend, and I believe this is important to realize before tackling his case.
Science often attempts to punch above its weight, he argues, and this is not only misleading -- as "the scientific method" is itself a myth -- but politically dangerous as we are meant to give priority to science over other forms of inquiry given that science is "objective".
It seems clear to me that all attempts to "explain science" have, to date, been unsuccessful (usefulness of these accounts is up for debate of course but none are without problems).
His hero is Galileo, who "exhibited a style, a sense of humor, an elasticity and elegance… which has never been equaled in the history of science." Today's so-called "rational" views exist, he claims, "only because reason was overruled at sometime in their past." He believes science advances only through radical epistemic and methodological pluralism, which he phrases with intentional provocation, as an "anything goes" mode of inquiry.
An interesting book that brings some humanistic/cultural elements to the scientific endeavor, not only evidenced from an analysis of past discoveries, but also as a fundamental prerequisite for any actual scientific activity.
The author takes a long case study of Galileo's discoveries as a basis of his various interesting theses, many of which go totally opposite to the "mainstream" views and historical interpretations.
Yet I often thought my views had a wide room for anarchistic elements, even in a such a naive rational setting, but maybe I was wrong.
This book was assigned for class on science, magic, and religion. The other books intrigued me more, they looked much more exciting and this one was sitting beige-ly on the shelf. I did not have any expectations, but now I think it is one of the most useful books I have ever read, it kind of blew my mind, and I want to illustrate a version of it with my stupid drawings. I don't even know if I can properly review this book yet. But I can geek out and get excited about the implications for mad scientists.
Rorty said that while Philosophy had grown into adulthood during the 20th century, Science's maturity was yet to come. On Against Method, Feyerabend offers a small contribution emancipate Science from its worst deliriums. The author presents his vision of a pluralist Science which leaves behind epistemic arrogance and doctrinal orthodoxy. Definitely a worth read.
Feyerabend believes that in order for science to "progress" further, it is often necessary to leave the old system and start completely afresh, even if we don't possess the necessary evidence to confirm the validity of our new approach.
And that is sort of the gist of things.Feyerabend continues to ramble about scientific chauvinism and whatnot, also how science is starting to turn against humanity and democracy becoming a new ideology similar to the church before it separated from the state (In some cases it didn't, although that is a completely different story.).My initial impression of the book was that it was a postmodernist rant about the evil of science.
Σημαντικότερο βιβλίο του Feyerabend, θεωρείται πλέον ομόφωνα το Ενάντια στη Μέθοδο (Against Method, 1975), στο οποίο απέρριψε τη μέχρι τότε διαδεδομένη άποψη ότι υπάρχει μια επιστημονική μέθοδος, καθώς και ότι η ανθρωπότητα κατακτά με την πάροδο του χρόνου μεγαλύτερες ποσότητες γνώσης.
Βασικές επιρροές για τη συγγραφή του, θεωρείται η κοινωνικοπολιτική σκέψη του Stuart Mill και η θεωρία του Wittgenstein για τα «γλωσσικά παιχνίδια».Με αυτό το βιβλίο, όπως φαίνεται και από τον υπότιτλο «για μια αναρχική θεωρία της γνώσης», στόχος του Feyerabend ήταν να υποστηρίξει μια βασική θέση: αυτό που αποκαλούμε «επιστήμη» και καυχιόμαστε για αυτό, υπάρχει μάλλον στη φαντασία μας παρά στην πραγματικότητα.
Da qui l'atteggiamento dadaista che deve essere percepito dal suo lettore: è necessario leggere una posizione del genere, però a livello di contenuti, come già avevo detto, si potrebbero solo consultare le righe introduttive a ciascun capitolo e ricavare da lì tutto il sunto del discorso di Feyerabend.Quando avrò approfondito ulteriormente il pensiero di Lakatos riconsidererò questo saggio, ma al momento ne esco molto insoddisfatto perché era un testo su cui riponevo molta fiducia e non mi aspettavo di rimanerne deluso a lettura ultimata.
I still think that Popper has a lot of valid points, but Feyerabend puts him in the context of a bigger universe where Popper becomes one of many ways of looking at the world of science.I love how Feyerabend shows that there are different valid approaches for doing great science and, in general, for solving problems and advancing knowledge.
He certainly has the courage of his convictions in taking his positions to their logical extremes, arguing that rationality is just one way of looking at the world, which is not necessarily the best way, and that it may sometimes be in the best interests of human society and the advancement of knowledge to have politicians interfere with science.
