https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23960.Glue
I could not put this book down. Even after I finished it.
Fantastic. Great characters. Loved following these boys.
i really hadn't felt truly excited by a novel in a long time, although i'm often reading things i enjoy.
it was everything about it that made me really love what i was reading.
there are themes carried over from 'trainspotting' [but not so much with the anarchist lifestyle.:] but 'glue' is no poor-mans sequel.
some of these characters find their way into the 'trainspotting' sequel 'porno'.:] it's a novel with something for everyone, universal truths and down in the dirt entertainment.
Just fucking brilliant. This incredible epic is Welsh at his finest.

Život i odrastanje u Edinburghu kroz 70-e, 80-e i 90-e godine. Seks i ljubav i seks bez ljubavi, nogomet i navijanje i huligani, droga, siromaštvo i borba. Ali najviše od svega prijateljstvo i odanost koja prati prijateljstvo.Irvine Welsh oslikava život Škotske iz predgrađa i radi to majstorski dinamično i onako kako to samo on zna. Nakon Trainspottinga, još jedna genijalna knjiga koja oduševljava i na koju sam se navukla već nakon prvih nekoliko stranica.
DNF. No ranking. No review. I gave it a little over 100 pages (110, to be honest). It is written in a language I do not understand.
Ασυγκράτητη ροή λέξεων/εικονων/νοημάτων.Ενα οδοιπορικό στο Λιθ , του φτωχικου προάστιου του Εδιμβούργου, ξεκινώντας από τη φτώχεια και την περιθωριοποίηση των 70ς μέχρι τα στοιχήματα του σύγχρονου 21ου αιώνα.
Οι εργατικές κατοικίες, χτισμένες από την κυβέρνηση, το ταμείο ανεργίας, το εργοστάσιο,η φυλακή.
Η παλιά γροθιά καταπίεσης παραμονεύει ακόμα κάτω από την υποκριτική ρουτίνα της καθημερινότητας.
Κόντρες,αγριες απολαύσεις κ σκληρές απογοητεύσεις για τους ήρωες του, τους κρατάνε σε δυναμικές ισορροπίες κ τους υπενθυμίζουν ότι προέρχονται από την ίδια μήτρα και συγκεκριμένους κανόνες ηθικής, που τους πηγαίνουν παρακάτω
It's not running away, it's moving on." 5/5 Stars!
This has become my most favourite novel to ever exist.
I first read this quite some time ago, and liked it.
I can say, though, upon rereading Glue that I found myself tethered far more fiercely to the lives within the pages than I was bargaining for.
Glue is about four guys who are friends and grow up.
It's quite a remarkable read, in that it perfectly illustrates how much of a struggle it is to grow up, truly.
Getting older is shit, and Irvine Welsh doesn't shy away from that.
I love this damn novel.
He certainly has a lot of stuff out there – I’d guess I’ve read around half of it, and that’s still at least half a dozen books.In this novel, we follow a group of friends from their time together as kids in the 70s to the turn of the millenium, when a lot of secrets start coming to light.
Really, most people have already read one of Irvine Welsh’s books by the time that they pick up a copy of Glue, although it’s also not a bad book to start with.I guess, if I had to, I’d recommend Filth or Maribou Stork Nightmares, because those are my two favourite Irvine Welsh novels.
Glue prati četiri prijatelja iz Edinburgha kroz četiri desetljeća njihova prijateljstva, od početka u sedamdesetima, dok su još bili samo klinci, prolazi se kroz burne osamdesete kada su bili divlji tinejdžeri, devedesetih kad su se samo htjeli zabavljati na eksovima i u konačnici se dolazi do dvije tisućitih u kojima su najbolje godine definitivno iza njih.
Ali iako se ovdje nalazi sve što volim kao fan Welsha, u cijelu tu kombinaciju ovaj put dolazi i konstantan osjećaj nostalgije, emocije zbog koje mi je ovaj rad još i snažniji od ostalih njegovih koje sam imao priliku pročitati.
This novel follows several decades of the lives of four Scottish friends, from their high school days in Edinburgh until their thirties, when circumstances have put them each on separate paths.
The title refers to friends sticking together when everything is falling apart.This novel has a very similar appeal to Trainspotting.
It bears Welsh's same graphic blend of urban life, sex, drugs, and occasional violence.
Towards the end, the novel gets a bit more profound, at least in terms of examining friendship (the "everything falling apart" bit comes into play here).
A very enjoyable book overall; the vulgarity of Welsh's style (entertaining though it is!) belies some good observations on loyalty and working class life.

In the end, the reader is made to feel most sympathetic towards Gally because he is the group's martyr and his story is the most integral to the climax of the novel.
One page Gally is at the nightclub, the next he's just getting out of prison.All that said Glue is a great read, the more so since Filth was such a disappointment.
The characters and situations are great, and with the exception of the year hopping, I found every facet of the novel to be great especially for fans of Welsh's work.
why yes, i do believe i've found a new favorite author.but.
a disappointing end, it left me feeling a bit tense as though there ought to have been something more (or: minus the reprise).small complaint, as the whole of Glue is brilliant.
irvine welsh's ability to make sympathetic characters of those i'd otherwise dismiss -- ravers, wasters, junkies, hooligans, fucking for fuck's sake -- is no small feat, giving believable substance to a lot of piss and cum and making it into something endearing, even.
i'm smitten.this was my first irvine welsh book.
This is definately one I have to go back and read. This exploration of four friends and the different paths they take over several decades is very enjoyable. Disturbing and vulgar, hilarious and heartbreaking, especially the character of Andrew Galloway and his tragic turn. Another good one from Edina's laureate of squalor.
This book is utterly filthy and it is often written in the hackneyed speech of the Scottish lower class. There is a disturbing scene involving a dog, and this caused a lot of my classmates to refuse to read any further. Despite the perversions, I really enjoyed this novel.
This book was hard. Hard in every way. The language, the plot, the characters. All hard. And every bit worth it.
Carl "N-SIGN" Ewart and Billy "Business" Birrell's fathers meet at the metal fabrication shop where they both work hard and bond to become lifelong friends, which the boys follow.
And Andrew "Gally" Galloway is told "you're the man of the house now" while his mother cries and his father has to leave with some policemen, who he says "they need my help".We meet them next in their midteens in 1980, Terry having dropped out of school to work on the juice lorries, hence his nickname, where he gets to meet and sleep with all the girls in a bunch of neighborhoods.
No schitzos, no destroyed lives, parents, siblings, families, just bullet-proof laugh-a-minute bozos like Spud or latent geniuses like Renton (or Ewart or Sickboy or Begbie, the whole poxy cast) who only need to get clean and all's rosy.
Welsh is just a smutty little grub with a tendency for animal cruelty fantasy who writes cheap, one-dimensional, juvenile bum-joke rubbish made interesting only -- one trick and one only -- by the unfamiliar Scottish street lingo and slang.
And then, to contrast this millionaire celebrity with James Kelman who writes truly intelligent, excorticating studies of the same working class lives, struggles and people Welsh fills his scribblings with, pffft!
O livro se divide em quatro partes separadas por um intervalo de 10 anos na história.
A primeira parte é divertida e nostálgica pra caralho mostrando quatro adolescentes tentando transar pelas primeiras vezes, brigar por futebol e ter as primeiras experiências com drogas.
O que pode ser isolado como diversos contos engraçados, começa a se ligar pelos revéses (revés tem plural?) e formar um romance conciso em que fica difícil perceber quando a história se fez tão importante à ponto de você se envolver com ela.As idas e vindas dos personagens, as reflexões sobre ausência, paternidade e responsabilidades fazem desse livro uma obra foda.
La vita di quattro amici della suburbia edimburghese viene colta in quattro diversi momenti; ogni scorcio ci restituisce alcuni di loro sempre più sconfitti, mentre altri prendono il volo.
Tutti gli elementi che costellano e cementano l'amicizia adolescenziale dominano la scena: sbronze, risse, calcio e vacanze all'estero eufemisticamente avventurose.
Chi ha già letto altri libri dell'autore scozzese ritroverà personaggi che ha già incontrato o in cui si imbatterà in seguito, da Gas Terry Lawson a Rab Birrell, passando per i più celebri Renton e Spud.
Per gli standard cui ci ha abituato Welsh è già tanto.
There's threedimensional characters here, some laugh's, some cries and just a lot of heart in general.
Sure, there's still the sex, violence ( (view spoiler)[ that part with the dogs was shocking  (hide spoiler)] ), black humour and drugs, but it rarely gets as bleak as his other books.
It's good, but I guess I liked certain fragements of it ( (view spoiler)[ Germany for example  (hide spoiler)] ) way more than as a whole.
Also the book lost me for a while in the (view spoiler)[ 2000's  (hide spoiler)] part of it, since it felt rushed, chaotic and sometimes confusing.
This is a hard one to review.
I have not finished it and I don't know that I will, which would usually earn a one star scathing review, but the fact is, it's an excellent book, just very difficult to read.
Glue is a well told, many faceted linked narratives of victims and victimizers living hand to mouth.
While I get why it has to be this way, the fact is it just made it a lot harder for me to pick up knowing how much effort it would take to plow through and how much I would miss as a result.
I think this is Welsh's most soulful novel.
It doesn't try to make itself as interesting as some of his other works, just letting the characters move the reader.
It's a little more sprawling than I would have liked, but that's just me.
The dialect can get confusing when it gets particularly thick, but that's normal and expected since I'm not used to trying to understand people from that background.
Besides, it's really a necessary part of Welsh's books as I see it, and necessary for characterization.
I guess I just liked how bare and honest Welsh decided to let this one be.
No tricks, just good characters.
I loved this so much!
It has been hanging around my house for absolutely ages (my first ever RiSi swap in fact) and I regret not getting around to it sooner.
Irvine Welsh has such a talent for creating characters who are completely endearing and engaging despite getting up to horrendous things.
I also loved the way characters from Trainspotting kept cropping up as it's one of my all-time favourites so it was great to get these little snapshots of what was going on with them.
Glue is based on the lives and friendship of four working class lads from the scheme in Edinburgh, following them through four decades and a set of principles that binds them together.
If there was a word to describe this book, it would be "dirty" - as the beauty of Irvine Welsh's work is that it's real.
It is based on real people, real friendships, real happenings, so the link with reality is almost tangible.
I have yet to come across another author who can conjure up the most gruesome, yet astute, scenes whilst still maintaining a very strong sense of authenticity.
I found this book to be an engaging, crazy, and even heartfelt account about the lifelong friendship between the four childhood friends.
This is one of those books that has stuck in my head since the one and only time I read it.
Perhaps because I could relate in some ways to the characters, I think about this book and the stories every so often.
I also found it refreshing that Welsh wrote a structured novel with linear events.
I also appreciated that he returned some of the old characters from Trainspotting, like Renton and Spud and Begbie.
It made for a good read.
The first sign of Welsh's decline.Glue depicts the relationship between a group of working class boys. As they grow they experience the usual trials and tribulations.Sometimes it works and the set pieces are entertaining but towards the end the becomes incredibly banal, the introduction of the country singer, although used to represent different cultures, is the nadir of the novel and renders it idiotic. Disappointing.
All time fav IW book- character driven tale of four friends and the woes they weave over the decades. Absolutely love Juice Terry, the self proclaimed fanny merchant/ aerated waters salesmen (see him later- and fatter in Porno). Wish they would make this into a movie. When I had the fortune to meet Mr. Welsh I had him sign my well read copy of this book and Porno. The page he signed had been torn out and taped back together. Lol.
