https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/251125.A_Diary_of_Private_Prayer
Where an action of mine can make this world a better place, where a word of mine can cheer a sad heart or strengthen a weak will, where a prayer of mine can serve Christ’s kingdom, there let me act and speak and pray.”“O Lord, you indwell our shabby human life, lifting it now and then above the dominance of animal passion and greed, allowing it to shine with borrowed lights of love and joy and peace, and making it a mirror of the beauties of a world unseen.”“Do not let me refuse to show those closest to me the courtesy and kindness which I would show to strangers.
What a rich book - it's very simple, with a month's worth of one-page prayers for morning and evening.
It has great depth, and the author has a real gift as a wordsmith.
It's only in recent years that I've come to appreciate the value of praying other people's prayers.
I find (as CS Lewis once pointed out) that most of my own praying is very personal but also very narrow.
Praying the prayers of others broadens my prayer life, which eventually makes it that much more personal as well.
This book is a real blessing, and I highly recommend it.
Having worked at the public library for several years, I now instinctively borrow rather than buy.But, there are certain books that I make exceptions for.
* Do I love this book so much that I intend to recommend/lend it to others?A Diary of Private Prayer by John Baillie is one that joins my short list of books worth actually owning.
Or to begin a day remembering my own frailty and pleading for God's mercy on me in the day ahead.
What a beautiful exercise in turning my eyes from myself onto the needs of others.I highly recommend Baillie's book of prayers as a robust devotional resource of the highest order.--Jen
This book is “an old way of praying that is still new to me” (to quote Andrew Peterson). It’s a book of liturgical prayers, full of depth and meaning.
The prayers are written in a somewhat archaic style--"Thee" and "Thou" are the most obvious signs of this (and the easiest to mentally translate to modern equivalents), but other verbiage also shows this.What I love about these eloquent prayers is that they are at once "classical" and also thoroughly relevant, inspiring, challenging.
They are a turning away from the failures of the day, and a hoping that the next day will not see a repetition of the same; all of this is in the context of affirmation of God's love for us.I'm thoroughly enjoying incorporating Baillie's prayers into my own daily prayers, and I recommend this book to anyone else who appreciates written prayers.
My second time through this book. I'll just reprint what I said before:The book contains 64 prayers, 31 days of morning and evening prayers and 2 prayers designated Sunday morning and Sunday evening.The prayers are wonderfully diverse. They expand what I thank the Lord for and lead me into praying for things I don't normally pray about.The format of the prayers vary, too. Sometimes Baillie will have you praying through Scripture verses, for instance. Finally, the prayers are just really well-written.
A have used this little gem over the last 10 years. It is very user-friendly. It covers 31 days, both morning and evening. With each prayer there is a blank page for scribbling notes, prayer requests etc. Most of the time the prayers range from delightful, to beautiful, to rich. Only on rare occasions does the writer's liberalism seep through problematically (like the morning prayer on the fifth day, in which Ballie blows along with the winds of Evolution). I highly recommend it, but with a reminder to be discerning.
This is a great book of daily prayers (morning and evening) from an early-mid 20th century theologian and leader in the Church of Scotland. Some of the prayers verge on the wishy-washiness of theological liberalism, but most are incredibly helpful and biblical guides to daily prayer.
He was well versed in his faith.A diary of private prayer reflects the depths of his education and love of God. This is a book that Will help you plumb the depths of your relationship with the Lord and help you reflect on your understanding and practice of your spiritual path.The author says these prayers and a jumping off point that you should use as a platform to further develop your own prayer life.
Each prayer will help you mine the depths of your heart for the sparkling diamonds that you can over to the Lord and use to benefit everyone around you through intercession.Your prayer life will never be the same again.This is also a great book for browsing.
This has become a new favorite guide for my daily prayer times.
Such depth and range of expression of emotions and such solid truths to cling to in prayer are gathered here.
I can only share a favorite passage as a taste and a recommendation to others:"Almighty God, who of Thine infinite wisdom hast ordained that I should live my life within these narrow bounds of time and circumstance, let me now go forth into the world with a brave and trustful heart.
Thou hast given me little power to mold things to my own desire; therefore use Thine own omnipotence to bring Thy desires to pass within me.
I found this to be a very useful devotional book. If you are looking for assistance in developing a more disciplined prayer life. Bailey does not lecture you about prayer; he teaches you to pray by praying with you.
So good!!This has been such an encouragement to read as I start my days and as I finish them. You should definitely read this!
This is an ungoing read everyday, that is a part of daily devotionals - It highlights such unique things that were not a part of my prayer vocabulary and brings them to life for me.
I absolutely love this book of prayer! What an awesome way to start my daily quiet time with God!
This is a super, rich prayer book. It is written in old English with "Thees and Thous" but definitely worth the uphill effort. Great book to ponder over.
Then when I purchased a paperback copy of the Diary, I was at first surprised that the actual book is written more in KJV language--which makes sense, since the majority of public and personal prayers in English followed the archaisms of the KJV, until changes from the 1960s onward, in which the language of prayer gradually took on contemporary, "language of the street" character (it's interesting to note, for example, how the public prayers of Billy Graham changed from KJV to contemporary English over the years of his ministry).
But over time, and with increased familiarity of those beautiful words, I came to love the language of the prayers in most cases, and at least tolerate it everywhere else.So now I come to the newly published edition of the Diary, edited and updated by Susanna Wright.

February, 2018I would love to re-read this little gem.
Also, if you have the capacity to learn from example, this book is a springboard to understanding/glimpsing the broad array of approaching God, who hears our voices, inept as they may be, as we trust and turn to Him. In the original editions (I am not sure how many have been created) there is a blank page for every second page, leaving lots of room for your own notes.
This writer loves this sort of detail, and recommends this book for like-minded others, who long to draw near to God in their daily walk.
However, having drifted into a rather self-centered prayer time and mumbling the same things over and over again, I thought I'd reach out and see what this book was like.
Thirty-one for morning and evening and two special prayers for Sunday morning and evening.
The prayers are not only for the individual praying, but for others in the world--from the cold and homeless to your best friend.
If like me, your prayer life is falling flat, get a copy.
Even if you feel you have a full prayer life, I still think you will benefit from this book.
I became across this little book of 32 days' worth of morning and evening prayers via an excerpt in Richard Foster's Devotional Classics.John Baillie was a Scottish theologian and a Church of Scotland minister.
The book was first published in 1936.
There is a new edition more recently published, but the old hardcover edition I got from Christian Value books for $6 is the original version with its thees and thous.
"O Eternal Being, Thou livest in everlasting light; now, as the world's light fails, I seek the brightness of Thy presence..." My copy carries the rather nice inscription: "For 'Adventure Time' / An Appreciation / Presented to / Mr R.
I love this book.
I love everything about it.
Published in 1949 and written by a Scottish cleric, it contains 31 morning and evening prayers.
The language is beautiful, artful, comforting.
He is a wordsmith of the first order, but, more than that, he is clearly a man who has spent much time talking with God. Knowing Him, being known by Him, and making Him known.
His sweet, comely prayers speak my heart every time.
This little collection of prayers is a gift.
What a deep and abiding comfort.
****An Advanced Reading Copy of A Diary of Private Prayer by John Baillie was generously provided to me via NetGalley in exchange for honest review.I rarely read this kind of book before. Because to me, prayer's something I know naturally. Sure I have to read some, but I'm not a type of person who read book like this to pray. Surprisingly, I enjoyed reading this book. I mean, the prayers here are more like conversation between us and God. I loved it. Look forward to read a book like this anytime soon.
Thirty-two days (yes, an extra "Sunday"), one prayer to start the day and one to end it. This is "A Diary of Private Prayer".This little book has been a wonderful addition to my prayer life these past six weeks and I intend on starting from page one again tomorrow. Even though written in the 1940s these prayers are still timely and relevant to do today.Beautifully poetic and quoting from Scripture I have found these prayers to be particularly useful in stilling my heart and invigorating my prayer time.Highly recommended
I really enjoyed using this book for devotional reading during the month of April. The daily prayers and reflections for morning and evening nicely framed days made busy by responsibilities in my school, community, and parish. Billie's writing style is beautifully grounded in a prayerful and imaginative recollection of key phrases and images from Scripture. I'd gladly recommend this book to anyone looking for a gentle devotional aid to a regular rhythm of daily prayer and reflection.
This is a book of John Baillee's thoughtful, inspiring & eloquent prayers, which are now more accessible in this updated & revised edition by Susanna Wright.There is one for each morning & evening for a month, with space in the book for your own thoughts & prayers to be written alongside.John Bailee was clearly a man who knew God well & his prayers encourage us to do the same.It's a book I'll go back to again & again to aid my quiet times with God.
A wonderful book of morning and evening prayers for 31 days with a special pair in the back for Sundays. The older English language usage takes a bit of getting used to but that's worth the effort. They are to be read slowly and meditatively. Pause for silence in places. These prayers encourage examen and inspire adaptation. Make them your own. This edition leaves a blank page in front of every prayer for your own notes. A good book to have and use during Lent.
This is a truly insightful month long book of prayers, one for each morning and evening of the month. The prayers are not long but take you before God in prayer in simple, God/Christ- centered, scripturally based confession, repentence, praise and petition. A wonderful focus to start and end each day.
This "diary" of 31 morning and evening prayers by a Scottish cleric and theologian, first published in the late 1940s, will be a book that I return to several times a year as a means of prayer when my own voice is insufficient and words do not come easily. A beautiful book that I wish I'd discovered years ago.
I am so bad at reading these daily type books. It's taken me over a year to get through this one. Love the short little bite-size prayer. They were very articulate and made me think. However I just can't do it daily format book.Finished, finally! I hate old English, so the prayers lost some of their luster in thinking through the "translation".
a beautiful book of daily prayer. A morning and evening prayer although the language is a bit thee and though a bit dated for my taste I still gave it 5 stars because I found the daily routine of this little book of prayer filled me with faith and the love of my God.
