https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2166045.The_Dream_Coach
The poem's followed by four dreams which make up the rest of the book.
The dream of a young Norwegian boy, Goran, follows and is just on the cusp of being a nightmare.
This is followed by the dream of the Little Chinese Emperor, the one unrelentingly racist story in the book: descriptions, names, perceived customs, etc.
This one is a nightmare brought on when the boy imprisons a little brown bird; he dreams that he in turn is made prisoner by birds.
This last dream/nightmare is the longest and is that of a French boy, Philippe, who dreams that his relatives are Grandmother Rain, Grandfather Snow, and Uncle Wind.
So very insipid. And the chapter with the Chinese Emperor could not possibly get more racist.
3.5⭐️
My very large extended family read this book together when I was a kid; I'm a child of the 80s and my childhood response to this book was gag me with a silver spoon, which upset one of my older cousins because she adored this book.
She was a very princessy sort of gal; I was that kid who liked to read in trees.
The first story, The Seven White Dreams of the King's Little Daughter, spends a lot of time talking about getting dressed and dreaming.
The fourth story, "King" Philippe's Dream, is a long-winded attempt to teach kids that nature serves humans.
Bad children are punished with nightmares but sometimes good children accidentally get nightmares too.The rest of the book is four short stories of the children who receive dreams on the route of the Dream Coach.
The third is a boy emperor who is taught about the bird that he keeps in a cage and the last one is a boy who dreams that his relatives are elements of nature (rain, wind, etc...) and that he is a king.It was a little "out there" for my tastes (and considering I love science fiction and fantasy, I have a pretty high tolerance for weirdness).
The only story I really liked at all was the one with the emperor.
The first three stories in this book range mostly from "what's the point?" to "please, just no", with only hints of greatness, but the fourth (which occupies nearly half the book) is a wonderful little tightly-plotted fantasia that deserves a reissue - possibly as a lavishly illustrated picture book, if any pictures could live up to the descriptions.I would rate this book far, far above Tales from Silver Lands, the painfully whitewashed collection of South American folktales which beat it out for the 1925 Newbery Medal.
Read the full review here: http://newberyandbeyond.com/newbery-r...The book is made up of five stories of the dreams of children around the world, and it’s framed by the story of the dream coach itself.
I love the idea of that, and I can see parents in the 20s reading this to their kids as a bedtime story.
The story is helped along by some really nice illustrations by Dillwyn Parrish.Unfortunately, this book suffers from 1920s racism.
What I mean by that is, although The Dream Coach doesn’t come right out and say racist things (and one of the main characters is, in fact, not white), it’s filled with the kind of stereotypes that make modern readers uncomfortable.
Not one of the more outstanding of the early Newbery Honor books. The premise is good, but the stories are not very memorable. Also, the descriptions found in the story of the Little (Chinese) Emperor are very culturally insensitive. For example: "his little round face, as round and yellow as a full moon" or "The Little Emperor opened his eyes and saw the face of Princess Autumn Cloud bending over him, as yellow as a lemon." I'm guessing Anne Parrish never met anyone from China.
Twas cute. I don't know what more to say than that, but it’s legitimately very cute. I feel like it’d be good to read sections of it to a kid before bedtime to clear the room of monsters and bad thoughts. There’s some light poetry, some drawings, and then stories of the types of dreams different characters have. They’re very fanciful stories, and… cuuuute.
Wish I knew about this book when I was a child or even when mine were younger. It would be a fun book to read aloud at bedtime as you drift off into dream land. It's been criticized for being outdated and racist, but this could easily be edited when reading aloud without hurting the story. A very good read.
A very random book, but that's to be expected I guess from a book about peoples' dreams. Anne Parrish thinks she's a poet, but she's not. You can also see her attempts at making the dreams kind of magical, but she fails miserably. Then at the very end it turns into a 'Save The Earth' kind of book. Weird.
I'm guessing she means coach as in and not although I would certainly be interested in reading a book about someone who coached dreams.
Read from online. http://digital.library.upenn.edu/wome...
I just didn't like this at all. Having to read it online didn't help. It is dated. It is preachy, mostly the short stories about children dreaming around the world are boring.
Newbery Honor Book 1925
A Newbery Award honor book for 1925.
