https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/340258.A_Woman_of_Independent_Means
If anything, I sheepishly regard my tears as a testament to the quality of this work.The love that grew almost unexpectedly for Bess-- this character that simultaneously seemed as foreign and familiar as the bygone days depicted in her life-- made me realize that life, with all of its trauma and loss, impossible beauty and joy, is absolutely an adventure that must be honored to the fullest.
If anything, it made me feel thrilled that there are many more books waiting to be discovered, and even more that will call out to me when the time is right.
Not that I need to with a Kindle Fire and a hot Amazon account.) I stopped dead in my tracks when I saw an inscription from my mother who has been gone from this life so many years ago.
She always gave me a book for my birthday, a hard back book with an inscription inside.
She quit giving me books as I grew up and moved on with my life.
These pages are brown now since it was a 1st printing of the paperbacks.
First Avon Printing, July, 1979.
I will reread this book and remember.....
her and the book - again.
her and the book - again.
One reviewer described the story as "A portrait of a woman with all her frailties, strengths, failures and victories combining to prove that living a life is an accomplishment.” Told through personal letters covering a period of about 60 years, it introduced several significant characters without having to keep track of too many.
She acknowledges this very human trait in herself when she writes the following:"by compressing and editing the events of my life, I infuse them with a dramatic intensity totally lacking at the time, but oddly enough I find that years later what I remember is not the event as I lived it but as I described it in a letter.”Bess, the protagonist, was a fully fleshed out, sympathetic character.
I read this book thirty years ago and it was a light bulb moment for me - the first time I had read a 'how-to' on becoming independent in a relationship.
It is a page turner, but the take-away for me was how Bess illustrates the importance of every woman having her own financial security, her own thoughts and dreams.
I thought it was so important that I bought copies for my own three daughters (who are inherently more independent that women were in past eras.
But we all need this reminder).A Woman Of Independent Means
It's a book of letters from a woman of high society, beginning with her childhood letters to her sweetheart.
She later marries him and they enjoy a life of luxury until his death.
The book is touching, but I find the main character to be a bit bossy.
Her insistence to have things her way all the time becomes a bit annoying, and she is outspoken to a fault.
Her children, especially her daughter, become estranged from her near the end of her lift, as a result of her intrusive personality.
The book is, as previously stated, touching, even if I don't always agree with the points-of-view of the persona.
This book is the life story of a woman born in the 1890’s through 1960’s told via her letters to friends and family.
If you don't want to read all my ramblings: in a nutshell, she was too materialistic, too concerned about status and wealth, and both her relationships with her husbands were unhealthy, both in totally different ways.
She constantly rehearsed to newspapers editor’s her social prominence (p.271) She wanted to be friends with her neighbor because he was the newspaper editor and was so proud of her second husband's social progression.
I tried a book without a single recommendation - very scary for me!
I picked it up at the dollar store or a clearance rack and I fell in love with it.
The entire book was written in letters over the span of an American women's life (late 1800's - 1969ish).
Life deals her tragedy yet she often rises and grows from her losses.
The word independent describes her perfectly (a bit like Scarlett O'Hara ) I am not sure if anyone else out there will love this book as I did but I would recommend it.i would give 4 1/2 stars
My dear friend told me to run, not walk, to the bookstore and purchase a copy of this book.
This epistolary novel is written through a series of letters throughout the life of Bess Steed Armstrong, a forthright woman of the early 1900s who believes in living life on her own terms.
Through her letters we come to intimately know this woman of indomitable spirit and follow her as she experiences the sacrifices of love, the complexities of motherhood, the problems and joys of marriage, and the pain of great loss.
Love her or despise her, getting to know Bess is a wonderful read.
4, estrellas Esta novela epistolar fue de menos a más. Aunque tiene sus altos y bajos, terminó cautivándome completamente. Una historia que abarca desde la juventud de la protagonista, una joven adinerada y con un futuro prometedor que se ve entorpecido por la desgracia, hasta sus últimos días convertida en bizabuela. Había leído que se parecía a 84, Charing Cross Road de Helene Hanff, pero a mi no me lo pareció en absoluto.Lo recomiendo.
This excellent novel, made up of a lifetime's correspondence from a woman to her family and friends running from the turn of the last Century to 1968, is a page-turner in all the best senses of that phrase.
She runs a fine thread of control through the lives of her loved ones, and then is truly surprised and hurt when they rebel.
I loved every moment I was allowed to spend in her presence and hated getting to the last page of the book, because it meant that I'd have to say goodbye to Bess and her loved ones.
El libro nos lleva por la vida de esta mujer desde su juventud durante las primeras 6 décadas del siglo xx.
Las diferentes cartas que nos vamos encontrando se centran sobre todo en la vida familiar y social de la protagonista donde para mi están los mejores momentos de la novela, en cambio la forma en que utiliza los momentos históricos para la narración como las guerras mundiales me ha parecido demasiado superfluo y en algún momento incluso sonrojante como por ejemplo cuando nos encontramos la carta que escribe durante la segunda guerra mundial.A pesar de los defectos que encuentro al libro es una lectura amena que recomiendo y posiblemente las mujeres aprecien mas este libro que los hombres.
This was different, but overall, I liked it. In the beginning, I was a little put off by the frivolity of this woman. It had me wondering why this book has received so many 4 and 5 star rating. As I read further, there were threads of truth that remain poignant even in this century, that were woven throughout. It is a short book, so this isn't an in depth look at the MC. But there were plenty of glimpses, both subtle and powerful, into the woman she was becoming.
I liked the creative way in which this book was written, through letters and other types of correspondence from Bess to various people in her life. We learn a lot about her not only from what she writes, but from her references to what other have written to her. She is a very controlling woman, who seeks to manipulate everyone and everything to her wishes and usually gets her way, but sometimes at a price to her personally. Very well written and wonderful 3-dimensional character development.
I read this because it is a family member's favorite book and we're doing some female bonding--bit out of my usual lane, but the character is interesting.
Written by Elizabeth Forsythe Hailey in epistolary form, A Woman of Independent Means, portrays the life of a middle to upper-middle-class white woman, Elizabeth Alcott, coming of age at the turn of the 20th century.
Through letters written by Elizabeth we are shown portions of her life, though because these are letters, we are never able to get as truly close to Elizabeth as we would like.
This isn't about burning bras or staging protests; it's about a woman who shows great fortitude and triumph over the common travails of life – the deaths of loved ones, the unexpected turns in career and relationships, etc., when all of society expects her to wither like a fragile, dying flower.
However, so far, I'm loving it all over again.This is an outstanding study of an unusual (for the time) woman who, through her letters, conveys a strong spirit, a strong sense of love of family, and a series of lessons on life ranging from child rearing to finance to business strategy to the honor of doing the right thing.Bess begins writing letters in the fourth grade at the turn of the last Century and continues through to 1968.
Letters are written to family members and friends.
The inclination to make decisions for adult family members, and then express surprise at their lack of grace in accepting these decisions, is one of the most telling aspects of this lady's character.I would highly recommend this book.
This is such a hard one to rate...
at the beginning I was so irritated with the woman that I checked that this really was the book I saw so highly recommended.
The one-sided letter writing format was probably partly to blame for this.
But eventually I started to love her.
And despite my initial irritation I couldn't help but cry when her husband died and sob when her little boy died.
I loved observing Bess grow older and the attitude she exuded until the very end.
I'm inspired to write a will and to live more passionately and deliberately.
Mediante una narrativa epistolar, Bess nos va mostrando su vida, sus alegrías, sus pesares y su fascinante personalidad.
Manipuladora, pero de las que lo hace con mucho arte y no te puede caer mal.
Si bien en el libro se hace hincapié en su independencia y arrojo, ella como bien deja caer al principio con mucha ironía, ya dice que con dinero es más fácil tener autoestima y valentía.
Pero que sea rica no la hace menos válida, otras en su lugar habrían vivido una existencia anodina sin preocuparse de mirar más allá de su estola de piel.
The book had completely slipped from my memory, so I borrowed it from the library and embarked on a rediscovery of my younger self.
This book is still one of my favorites because I enjoy Hailey's writing style.
Her use of the language is so rich and fluid and I enjoyed how well she fleshed out her characters.
What was unexpected was how empty I now found Bess's (the main character's) life.
Bess demonstrated a dependence on wealth and social status, combined with a domineering, selfish nature that I find distressing today, which I strangely commended when I was younger.I would still recommend this book because it is an engaging read.
having Romance and Feminist Novel in one book can be powerful book.
Four and a half stars. This book might be more meaningful to an older reader because the main character's progress through life's twists and turns is what is fascinating. She is an annoying person, but there is much wisdom in her story, which is in the format of letters she has written over fifty years. I really liked this book!
This is one of my favorite books. It has been years since I've read it and I wanted a friend to enjoy it too, so I ordered another copy and I'm reading it again. Tres fabu!* * * * *I do love _Fair and Tender Ladies_ too, but this one is even better. Best book I've ever read!
A Woman of Independent Means is a little saga that follows the life of Bess, a woman living through the tumultuous first half of the 20th century.
The book is written in a letter format, which is a little annoying, because the reader must figure out who the letter is to, what the date is, what events Bess is referring to, etc.
It's a bit distracting and I believe it takes away from the meaning of the book.
I like the ideas presented in the book, however, and I love Bess's strength as well as the different women's issues discussed, such as Bess's boredom at having to leave society during her pregnancy.
Fate deals a hand to this young women at the turn of the century and she impressively takes the bull by the horns.
My favorite memories of this book are the moment when she has to make a decision about taking her ill son with her on the train to NY and subsequently manages returning his coffin to Texas.
Her decision to keep her finances separate from her husband as an investor in his company.
The moment she realizes that the hand her husband is holding belongs to the widow next door, though he thinks it is hers.
I always find novels written in the form of letters interesting (not that I's want to read more than one a year!).
I found myself putting this book down and reading other things because somehow it was becoming too much a part of my thoughts!!
It wasn't that I related to Bess and her lifestyle of travel and welath and domestic help (I hated when she would talk about not being able to cook!--ahh!
I think the way it was written and the tragedies she faced were just too easy for me to internalize (i.e. well-written book!) I found myself disagreeing quite often with Bess and still liking her.
This was a Mother's Day gift from Megan and James and what a treat it was to read!
The author chose to present the story of her grandmother through letters and it was a nice literary device in this case.
The women of the story lived through so much history--besides her personal life which was amazing!
I always find it interesting to read a person's life as they approach dates I know will be significant and see how they are affected.
She lived from horse and buggy days through automobiles and from crossing the ocean by ship to air travel.
I still think about Bess's resilience and zest for life.
I really loved this book.
There are a handful of books, if we're lucky, that stay with us for years.
We remember what we felt while reading it, how exciting it was to have found a book that had us forego everything needing to be done because we couldn't put that book down.
And then there are other books we fight our way through and really don't remember having read, after some time has passed.
A Woman of Independent Means is in the former category and it may be time to reread this treasure.
Ward book group, June 2011.
I LOVED THIS BOOK!
I coming to learn that I am a sucker for books written in letter form.
Sometimes in her success she would become prideful and sure of herself only to have life knock her down again.
In the end she dies comfortable, loved and confident, but not prideful, selfish or heartbroken, all of which she could have permanently succumb to.
I found it inspiring.I was slightly disappointed with the final entry, but I realize, given the format of the book, the author probably did the best should could.
I appreciate that she didn't end with someone else's voice.
This book is written entirely as letters from the main character, Bess, to family and friends throughout her life.
The first letter is written when she is a young child to her friend, who later becomes her husband.
I was surprised how the one sided letters read so well like a story.
I was still able to get to know the other characters even though they had no voice in the book.
There were several insights incorporated into her letters that I enjoyed reading.
One that I especially agreed with was written in reference to her grandchildren "The more they know of the past, the more they will derive from the present."
I think about it all the time and wonder if it's as good as I remember, but I know I thought the concept was so cool at the time, having a book made up of letters, all from one woman's perspective.(2008)Currently re-reading it.
Not sure if I can slog through this one again.Finally (!) finished - it was painful at times and I broke my cardinal rule of letting books if they don't hold my interest but I think I was determined to see why it captivated me for so many years.
Still not sure....
