https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/105232.Law_of_Success
As an educator with over ten years experience (K-12 two years, college / university eight years) I can tell you that if a student comes to class with all the talent in the world WITHOUT an understanding (a very specific understanding) of his / her definite purpose (Hill calls it "chief aim"), self-confidence, a habit of saving, imagination, self-control, accurate thought, tolerance, etc.
But also keep in mind that this book is not just for high achievers, it's for everyone, as Hill states.
No wonder so many marriages fail, why in 10 years 70% of college grads no longer work in jobs related to their major, why most struggle financially, on and on and on and on.
Very useful book for those who want to become successful in life. Highly recommended for all. Amazing write up by Napoleon Hill. I bought this book at special price from here:https://www.amazon.com/Law-success-Na...
The multitudes of pseudo-scientific theories, most of which seem to have been conjured up in the mind of Hill himself, were highly speculative at the time of writing (in the 1920s) and are just plain silly today.Interestingly enough, Hill claims that his only truly original contribution to all the laws and principles of success is the principle of that very same mastermind alliance, yet here is exactly where he steers off course the most.
15 Timeless Principles of Success:1. Having a Definite Chief Aim2. Self Confidence3. The Habit of Saving4. Initiative & Leadership 5. Imagination6. Enthusiasm7. Self-Control8. The Habit of Doing More than Paid For9. Pleasing Personality 10. Accurate Thought11. Concentrate 12. Cooperation 13. Profiting by Failure14. Tolerance15. Practicing the Golden Rule
I've been studying Think and grow Rich since 1971 and have always seen reference made by Dr. Hill to the Law of Success, but never sought to find it.
It was truly the most transformational experience of my life and was the frosting on the cake for Think and Grow Rich.
She finally just cracked up and left, a victim of Poverty consciousness.
She gave me all she had to give and when that was gone, she left.
Her faith was in the bank, and all this time I had been thinking she was a Christian..
This is one of the best self-help books I've ever read! I have to admit, the book is quite verbose and boring at times (particularly in the beginning), but if you can get through the 1st quarter of the book, the remainder is well worth it.
All books of Napolion Hill is very good! I have read many of the and several times.
A friend of mine gave me this book "The Law of Success in Sixteen Lessons" to read as a gift.
The book shows how the wealthy create success.Napoleon Hill was born in 1883 and living his life in poverty.
Hill had studied over 500 of Americas most successful business men.
It took Mr. Hill 20 years to write this book."The Law of Success in Sixteen Lessons" discuses everything about what it takes to be successful.
If you want to be successful in life regarding your business, health, and wealth, I would suggest that you find this book and buy it.
Napoleon Hill was definitely ahead of his time. I learned so much from this. Just like there are indisputable laws of the Universe, there are also indisputable laws of success that any one must learn and accept if they wish to attain any sort of achievement.
This book is about 600 pages.
It is 15 laws of success while I have seen a photocopy version of the original printing at that has 16 laws.
It seems that the introduction chapter in my version is actually the 1st law on forming a mastermind group.
I have completed the book and this is a foundation book for everyone!
This is a book you could study for quite some time.
Some of the stories are a little dated especially when he talks about salaries but other than that it is loaded with great quotes, some poetry and many short stories about successful people.
• The STORIES in this book are GOLD! • This is old school success lessons that are timeless.  • The tramp who meets hill and is shown a mirror story.Importance of salesmanship! • Lesson 1: a definite chief aim. Focus like a lens focuses light into one spot and burns it. Constantly remind yourself of your short term and long term goals including your definite chief aim. You must actually believe you can achieve and not merely wish. • "From the very moment that you make this choice, this purpose b
3. I know that through the principle of auto-suggestion, any desire that i persistently hold in my mind will eventually seek expression through some practical means of realizing it, therefore I shall devote ten minutes daily to demanding of myself the development of the factors named in the fifteen lessons of this trading course on the law of success.
Through repetition, any act indulged in a few times becomes a habit, and the mind appears to be nothing more than a mass of motivating forces growing out of our daily habits."	• Savings can help you create character to make more money and creating opportunities to make more money and can make you think in abundance terms 	• Becoming financially independent as a goal with systematic saving and investing for example 20% of income 	• Lesson 4: initiative and leadership.
When he got into those, it did feel like the book was just dragging as he went into intricate detail of those particular examples.
That being said, I just tried to skim those parts to get to the next gem of wisdom.This book is the extended philosophy on which Think and Grow Rich is based.
It contains all of the principles taught in Think and Grow Rich as well as much more.
For that reason, my suggestion is to study Think and Grow Rich first and then when you feel you are ready for more, study this book.
I found this title highly informative and motivating. The lessons and supportive arguments constantly remind you of the author's primary message.The presentation is easy to follow. Overall, it is a great book. The major challenge with this title is the level of repetition you may observe. Probably for emphasis, major points are repeated time and again. This may cause you to quickly flip through some of the pages. The repetitions also had the effect of making the points communicated rather diffuse.These drawbacks however are unlikely to prevent assimilation of the valuable truths proffered in this book.Repositioned: The Journey
This book was written over 80 years ago, but still holds up well.
I imagine back in the 1920s they must have thought that Napoleon Hill was a lunatic.
The book is divided into 15 easy to digest lessons.
Hill tends to meander within the lessons (e.g. he sometimes does not get to the actual topic of each lesson until about half-way through) and sometimes leaves you wondering why he titled the lessons the way he did, but the material is very useful.
The lessons on Self-Control and Doing More Than What You Are Paid For are worth the price of the book.
I marvel at the simplicity of some of the principles and cringe a bit at the stretching in my character required to deliver on some of the other principles. Hill presents an arsenal of success tools that are pretty all-encompassing. These are methods by which one can govern her mind, mind, mood and attitudes. She who has the guts to cultivate all 17 principles will surely win the prize.
1. have defined aim2. cooperate with others to obtain aim3. have a pleasant personality4. don't waste time with thoughts or people who can support you5. focus on aim6. master mind. gather from team of co-contributors7. don't procrastinate... be disciplined
An othergreat book by Napolian Hill who is my favorite self help author. A full review is on it's way.Be Blessed.Diamond
One of my top 5 favorite books. I have read it now, in its entirety, 7 times.
I enjoyed this book on two different levels. First, it's a classic in the self-improvement genre. Full of the wisdom of ages. Second, it's an old book (from early last century); therefore, it contains many dated cultural perspectives. For me it was an enjoyable read if taken just for the dated cultural perspectives. I'm fascinated by the 1920's era, so this book was an unexpected window into the thinking and perspectives of that time. I would warmly recommend this book to all who are seeking to improve themselves AND to those who may be students of history.
Excellent book with workable principles. It is a little long so it will require a commitment, but if you make that commitment you'll be glad you did.No matter what your current occupation or means of making money, simply reading this book will make you better at it.Very highly recommended.For those who want more of this kind of material, I encourage you to join the Global Information Network. ginevolve.com Use referral code "KFlint"
Teaching, for the First Time in the History of the World, the True Philosophy upon which all Personal Success is Built.“You Can Do It if You BELIEVE You Can!”THIS is a course on the fundamentals of Success.Success is very largely a matter of adjusting one’s self to the ever-varying and changing environments of life, in a SPIRIT of harmony and poise.
His lifework continues under the direction of the Napoleon Hill Foundation, whose goal and mission is to assist people throughout the world to reach their highest level of personal achievement and self-fulfillment.
This is the fundamental text book for those who want to explore more about the world of self-help. Esp for those who are interested in the Law of attraction. Buku ini adalah thesis atau kajian terhadap orang yang sudah berjaya pada zaman itu; Henry Ford, Dale Carnegie, Alexander Graham Bell. Kebanyakan buku self-help moden mengambil salah satu chapter dari buku ini dan dikembangkan menjadi sebuah tajuk lain. Buku ini agak susah didapati di pasaran memandangkan ketebalannya yang mencecah 1k pages. Mudahnya, baca buku ini then you'll understand the principle of self-help used by other authors.
"Read in moderation" would be my tip for this book. Much as it was written long ago, many previously absolute truths are no longer applied to the twenty-first century. In addition, the author often demonstrates an arrogant attitude, which is another position not applied to the present day. I believe that in an updated version, the book could contain 100 pages (instead 1035), summarizing the 16 lessons for success.
Tiraremos dela praticamente o que colocarmos, nem mais nem menos- Tudo é possível ao homem que tem um propósito muito bem definido.- Fortuna, riqueza, poder, bons relacionamentos, sucesso, paz, tranquilidade, dentre outras coisas, gravitam em torno daquele que sabe o que quer- a nossa reputação é feita pelos outros, mas o nosso caráter é feito por nós mesmos - A indecisão leva as pessoas para o fracasso- A imaginação por si só não é garantia para o sucesso - As pessoas costumam confundir triunfo, com riqueza- Os homens que triunfam na vida, atraem a companhia de outros homens que também triunfaram, enquanto os homens que fracassaram na vida, atraem a companhia de homens que também fracassaram.
The Law of Sucess has some kernels of wisdom but it was much too long and repetitive. It was also originally written in 1925 and as a result has some very outdated ideas about many things including women and how one achieves happiness in this world.
This is not one of Mr. Hill's better books. I found it quite redundant.
A should-read book on success frameworks in self development for knowledge workers, managers, executives, and entrepreneurs.
A dense and thoughtful book. Worth a visit once and a while through different time of life.
Livro excelente com diversas dicas sobre a lei da atraçao e PNL. Acredito que se praticarmos os conhecimentos compartilhados nesse livro, com certeza teremos sucesso.
This book is a longer version of Napoleon Hill's bestseller 'Think and Grow Rich' or rather 'TAGR' is a condensed version.This book is very long winded.
