https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29354916-the-whistler
I've read everything "Grisham" from his very first to this current one.
Instead of rotting fish, it's a Florida judge who seems to be caught up in a net of judicial misconduct floating in the waves of bribes, illicit exchanges, and deeply hidden cash.
The judge is a crafty one who buries her ill-gotten treasures like a sea turtle hiding her eggs in the sand.Lacy Stolz and her partner, Hugo Hatch, are the legal investigators called in to check out the story of a whistleblower (hence the title).
As a tried-and-true fan, I have had my fingers on the pulse of the last few books by Grisham.
There may have been one exciting moment toward the middle of the book.
The rest of the time it was just some lawyers and some judges and some bad guys doing some corrupt stuff, investigations, eating (so many descriptions of the food the characters eat - more so than story in some cases), etc.
When the resolution of the story happened I barely noticed because the tone stayed flat.I think Grisham used all of his excitement up in his earlier novels.
Now he is just dictating boring court cases to us.
But, I will still keep reading his books and looking for diamonds in the rough!
Personally it's not something I've ever given any thought to, but John Grisham has created a unique and exciting storyline based around this very subject.Lacy Stolz investigates cases of judicial misconduct in Florida.
Under state law, Myers and his anonymous whistle blower are able to claim a portion of any illegal assets discovered from the investigation, and as investigations go, this one will go down in history.Lacy, along with her working partner Hugo Hatch agree to meet Myers ( a somewhat shady character who lives on the periphery of society).
I was lucky enough to be offered the chance to read this short 4 chapter preview of John Grisham's new thriller 'The Whistler'.
Well, who wouldn't want to read this excellent author even if it isn't the full book?Lacy Stolz investigates cases of judicial misconduct in Florida.
She has her share of interesting cases but nothing that will set the world on fire, that is until Greg Myers approaches her with the mother of all judicial misconduct complaints.
I realise that 4 chapters doesn't make a book so it's difficult to accurately rate and review but it's certainly whetted my appetite and left me desperate to read the rest of this intriguing storyline.
When Grisham is good he’s very good – witness  Sycamore Row,  The Litagators, and  The Firm – but when he is bad…In recent times I struggled through  Gray Mountain and hoped it might just be a blip in the midst of a run of good form, but I’m afraid this one proves that not to be the case.
A particular judge is fingered by a whistle-blower (hence the title) and the team set to work.
The whole thing is pretty much a disaster.Two stars for me but only because I worked my way through the whole thing, hoping in vain to stumble across the redeeming moment the author had held back for the determined reader.
Myers explains that McDover is apparently mixed up with a collection of men who call themselves the Coast Mafia, all of whom have pushed forward the building and maintenance of a casino, The Treasure Key, on tribal land belonging to the Tappacola.
Commencing her formal investigation, Lacy and her partner head to the tribal lands and begin asking questions about the casino and the trial of Junior Mace, who was convicted of killing his wife and close friend in an apparent fit of rage when they were found in bed together.
This is another entertaining legal thriller from John Grisham and it involves a corrupt Florida judge who has been taking humongous bribes to advance the interests of a crooked real estate developer.
He's blowing the whistle in hopes of claiming the millions of dollars in reward money that would accrue to someone who could bring the judge and her co-conspirators down.The case is assigned to Lacy Stoltz, who has been investigating cases for the Board for nine years.
Most of the cases that the Board investigates involve incompetent judges and are relatively slam-dunk affairs.
The book is out in October so not too long to wait but I wish it was sooner.The novel starts with Lacy Stoltz an investigator who works on judicial misconduct cases in Florida.
Lawyer Greg Myers approaches Lacy and her partner Hugo on behalf of a whistle blower who has details of a judge who is mixed up with the local mafia.
Under state law Greg Myers and the whistle blower are able to gain a slice of the illegally gained assets and are in a position to make a lot of money.
But they first need to convince Lacy and Hugo that the case is genuine and the danger is worth the risk.
Once upon a time when a new John Grisham book was released it was a magical moment.
I'm talking about books like A Time to Kill, The Client, The Runaway Jury, etc.
I will say that I thought that this latest effort was better than Rogue Lawyer.Lacy Stoltz is an investigator for the Florida Board on Judicial Conduct.
There is a large casino on Native American land that was financed by the Coast Mafia.
Life is better since the casino was built.
Overall this was an okay book to read.
I will probably continue to read John Grisham books as he cranks them out.
Because of the threat to his own life, he's been on the lam for years (Myers isn't his real name); and he admits his only motivation for coming forward now is that he and his client stand to rake in millions by filing a complaint with the Board of Conduct.Painfully aware of those limitations as well as touchy jurisdictional issues between Florida law enforcement and Native American property, Lacy and her partner, Hugo, tentatively begin to investigate.
Many successful books center on family, and there is much in the way of caring, difficult and tragic family situations in THE WHISTLER.Highly recommended.If you like the Indian gaming setting and want to see it on a much bigger (and more-successful-in- meeting-tribal-needs) stage, take a look at award-winning STRIKE PRICE, a fictional thriller set amidst one tribe's half-billion dollar gaming business in Oklahoma, with backstory involving several other tribes forcibly displaced to the state during The Removal.
https://www.amazon.com/dp/0991110706 Readers may also like the short story that informs STRIKE PRICE, "A Time for Eating Wild Onions," from the tense, volatile early 1970s.
https://www.amazon.com/Time-Eating-Wi...
Who is The Whistler?• Setting: State of Florida My Sunshine State • Lacy Stoltz: Age 36, Single, sexy, smart strong female investigative lead for the Florida Board on Judicial Conduct• Hugo Hatch: Male investigator partner: 	Funny, family man, former football star, married to Verna; 4 children, • Themes: Corruption, Murder, Bribery, Gambling, Conspiracy, Money Laundering, Racketeering/RICO; Legal, Suspense, Humor, Crime; a little Romance• Honorable Claudia McDover:  Age 56, The most female corrupt judge in America • The Coast Mafia: Always a clever name for the bad guys  • Vonn Dubose: Ubervillain Mob Kingpin Gangster • Greg Myers:  Codename, "Randy." (formerly Ramsey Mix) Lawyer, ex-con, a Jimmy Buffet type who lives on a boat, with one client.
I like John Grisham, BUT this one left me feeling luke warm. Don't get me wrong dirty judges and stealing money from casinos is a great idea for an exciting story and it definitely had its moments. I liked the added romance for a little sizzle, but sadly this just fizzled.
Typical John Grisham novel.
Then bring in an Indian reservation, the Florida Judicial Board of Conduct and the FBI as the novel ramps up.
Grisham's writing is always superb, his storytelling without fault, and this novel was no exception.
However I did not become as involved in this novel as I normally would.
That prequel had me primed and ready for the novel.
Giving this book 3.5 stars - which may not be generous enough, but personally I did not connect with this novel like I normally do with Grishams work.
Three weeks from now, I will probably have no recollection of this book and I'm ok with that.Edit (12/13/16--2 weeks later). Very little recall. All I remember was a casino, a crooked judge and a car accident.
Going deep into how the organization of a Native American tribe and the federal laws that allow gambling on tribe lands work, as well as, the powers of a little known governmental authority whose job it is to investigate judicial misconduct, called the Florida Board on Judicial Conduct, Mr. Grisham's spare no detail account of the inner workings of these various matters are sure to keep the listener entertained and fascinated with learning more about these interesting matters.
3.5 - Good story but nothing ground breaking. I enjoyed listening to the book. Sometimes Grisham can just knock you off your feet, this wasn't one of those times.
This can range from being drunk on the job, to propositioning attorneys for sex, to taking bribes.....or worse.Even so, Lacy and Hugo are skeptical when a disbarred lawyer, who calls himself Greg Myers, claims that Judge Claudia McDover is in cahoots with the Coast Mafia - a criminal organization that engineered the construction of a casino on Tappacola Indian land in the Florida panhandle.
(IMO this hierarchy of snitches unnecessarily complicates the plot.) These tattletales are in it for the money, since whistle-blowers share in 'illegal gains' retrieved by the government.As part of their inquiries Lacy and Hugo start to sniff around the casino, which alarms the Tappacola Chief as well as the Coast Mafia - which is run by Vonn Dubose.
If you want to stay a Grisham fan (and I am one, trust me) stay away from this one. Flat characters, no empathy at all and frankly, it is boring. I gave this one 8 hours (of 13, audio book) and I just couldn't stand any more. I've read all of his books and liked them all and loved many. One or two were clunkers, but I always finished them. Not this one though. :(Sorry John, go back to the courtroom and keep away from this stuff.
The book opens with a good hook. It moves through predictable plot points, mostly. But the plot is so entangled the ending is tedious trying to tie everything together. Grisham also has a tendency to overuse phrases to the point where the impact is lost.
I'd say 3.5 stars. Interesting story,but other than the car accident, no tension or suspense and the ending felt rushed. Really didn't feel much for the characters, either.I did appreciate that there were only a few scattered-mild curses.I want to try something else by him, but am having difficulty choosing a book, as most of his stories involve elements that I avoid, such as serial killers, or abduction/abuse/harm to a child. 'Runaway Jury'- is a possibility.
Well…no.Actually, The Whistler (Grisham’s yearly Fall novel) tells the story of corrupt judge Claudia McDover, feasting on bribery and payoffs, as well as the team of hardworking Federal agents working hard to serve her a dinner of deep-fried justice with a heaping side of righteousness retribution.
Everything falls into place so easily the story becomes dull and uneventful.That’s too bad because Grisham can write a solid thriller.
This is not only the worst John Grisham book I've ever read (and I'd like to think I've read them all), but it is a very bad book in itself.
The story, the construct and characters are okay.
They do things which the mainstream has little idea about, and hence they are mildly fascinating.
There are throwaway comments, asides about characters, and asides about those asides.
One would think Grisham was the last of the genuine author+bestseller combinations available, where the large numbers of books he sold did still left him a step ahead of other mass market authors.
I'll admit that I have a soft spot for this author.
When my kids were very young, it was a real treat to find a little extra quiet time to curl up with a book and it was usually a Grisham one.I liked the story line.
The author always seems to have a great tale to share.
I also liked the characters and the way the story moved.
All of that made this a book I liked, I just didn't feel the love though.
That is a fine line I think, between fleshing out the characters and yet not having superfluous "stuff" in the dialogue and the descriptions.
Grisham's latest tells the story of an effort to take down a corrupt judge and a mafia ring in Florida.
This leads into a tangled web of bribery, murder, and intimidation that puts Lacy and those she trusts in danger.I felt like this book was lazily written.
We don't really get inside any particular character's head and the danger felt really forced.
The pacing just doesn't take you into the thrill of building the case like many of Grisham's best novels do.
I think taking the POV outside of any particular character for most of the book distanced the reader from the case.
Well, if you find a John Grisham book in there, it’s like holiday gold.
So when the lovely people at Hodder sent me an advance copy of his new book, The Whistler, what could I say except, ‘Thanks very much.’The Whistler is the story of two judicial investigators and the most corrupt judge in US history.
Books like The Firm were amazing, but the thrill factor was based on a huge suspension of disbelief (although because of them I know a lot more about how to hide from the Mob).

This would have been better with more connection to the prequel, "Witness to a Trial." Could also have used more justice than basically shaming one of the criminal characters. 6 of 10 stars
A whistle-blower reports the corruption including skimming and laundering the Casino’s cash offshore.Our protagonist is Lacy Stoltz, an investigator for the Florida Board on Judicial Conduct.
Lacy is an attorney who investigates Judges; she is not a law enforcement officer.
Lacy finds herself up against the head of the Coast Mafia, Vonn Dubose.The book is well written and has a complex plot.
The suspense slowly builds throughout the story.
The story follows the usual Grisham formula.
I cannot recall any other of Grisham’s books that had the attorney working as an investigator.Cassandra Campbell does a good job narrating the book.
I was so excited when I started reading the first few chapters.
My thought was that at some point in the story, Grisham would drop a bomb-shell of a suspect or the killer, or give us a loot of red herrings.
I do enjoy Grisham's writing style and the way he tells the story, but gee, where's the big bang?I even thought there might have been something about Lacy's brother that would shock us all.
Or even the court reporter, maybe even Allie, the FBI agent falling for Lacy, but no, no such luck.
