https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/675614.Book_of_Shadows
I've never started out liking a series and then turned around and felt so angry and disappointed and sad after it ended.
The more the series went on, the more time was spent with other characters, and the series was less strong as a result.I did think narrating a book from Hunter's point of view was interesting, until his story went way far away from Morgan's.
Since I was already pretty much skimming through anything that wasn't Morgan or Hunter's narrative, I skipped Book 14 entirely and then I read about the HUGE thing that happens in the beginning of Book 15.
This was an okay story about teenage witches, and it reminded me a bit of The Secret Circle. I was shocked at the way Morgan’s best friend Bree treated her, and the love triangle was fairly predictable. It was an okay story overall though, which left us with a bit of a cliff-hanger.6.5 out of 10
Why did I love this???Objectively this book is so so bad. Insta-love, very juvenile writing, crappy character development, infinite etc. But, I. JUST. COULDN'T. STOP.
These are the books that started it all for me, this is the series that made me want to be a reader.
When I discovered this series, I was about 12 at the time and I was so fascinated by Wicca and Paganism and Spellcraft that it amazed me to read so much about it.
I read every single one and it has been a good 8 years since I discovered these books and I went back to buy them all.
I went on to truly discover Wicca and become immersed in the Occult because of these books.
This was a re-read for my October TBT video but life got in the fucking way last week and I got literally nothing productive done. There won’t be a video on this because life is hard and I dropped the ball but just know: I still LOVED this. Will definitely carry on and re-read more of the series over the next few months.
3 stars - It was good.The writing is only so-so, average at best with shallow cardboard characters. However, the plot moves along nicely and is engaging enough that I am interested in seeing what happens next. It does seem to be well researched and it is interesting to see many of the myths about Wicca confronted. -------------------------------------------First Sentence: Years from now I’ll look back and remember today as the day I met him.
Her school life changes with the arrival of a new boy called Cal, who is a practising Wiccan.
Morgan and her school friends start becoming interested in all of the beliefs surrounding Wicca but has to keep this a secret from her family.
It was interesting as the reader learning more about Catholicism (I did go to a Catholic High School) and Wicca.
What let the story down for me a little was a dislike towards Morgan's friend Bree as a character.
Halfway through, she acts quite snarky and bitchy towards Morgan but this change does tie back to Cal's character.
This was a super quick audiobook and I listened to half and read my physical copy for the last half.
I am a sucker for witch books and this quick read was perfect for my mini-slump.
I studied up on Wicca for a few years in my late teens early 20's so I understood a lot of the terminology otherwise it could have been pretty info-dumpy.
I enjoyed the read and the characters even if it was insta-everything.
Instant introduction to Wicca, to a new love interest, and to a really annoying bestie.
Right now, though, it's pretty much everything that I wanted in a book.
She gets good grades, hangs out with her friends, and goes to church with her family on Sundays.
He's Wiccan, a different religion than Morgan and one that she has never come into contact with before.
Something about Cal and his religion interests Morgan and her best friends, Bree and Robbie.
The more they hang out with Cal, the more they like him.
While with Cal, Morgan learns something about herself that completely blows her mind -- and may change her life forever.
The story was great and you learn a thing or two about Wicca as you read it (it's not scary!).
I don't believe in "Wicca" or White Magic but I could see how this book could make someone really want to study into it.Morgan is just an average shy girl with a very popular best friend Bree!
Morgan and Bree have been best friends since they were young kids.
Even with Morgan and Bree hanging out in two completely different crowds, it never dampens their close relationship.There is a new boy in their school.
Morgan admires this about Cal; he even goes out of his way to start multiple conversations with her!
This book has no actual plot or major conflict to speak of, the characters are unconvincing and inconsistent, there's no action, no suspense, no romance, and very little logic or explanation about how anything works (like the MC suddenly waking up clairvoyant).
The very little that could be foreshadowed is blatantly obvious from the start and will probably somehow take several books before the main character - who is pretty dimwitted for a smart girl - finally starts to figure anything out (otherwise, I have absolutely no idea how this series would continue to run another 14 books).
Ok so I start reading book #1 and read straight through. I couldn't stop. I did't think that all 15 books were going to be all soo good. I loved, loved, loved them all! They kept you on the edge of your seat through the whole series and I didn't want them to end but what a great ending to a great series.
3.5 StarsOh boy this definitely filled the witchy void I've been feeling in reading lately!I enjoyed the set up of this novel, though it did fall into some typical early 2000's traps.
For instance, describing three characters physical appearances down to a T in the first few paragraphs.
But that can be forgiven because of how much FUN this was.There could have been more plot and I'm not completely happy with how it ended, but I did enjoy it.
Which is good because I bought all of the bind-ups of this series recently.
I guess I've got a lot of reading ahead of me.
Scale of 1-10: 4Pros: Tiernan's writing does not suck, and she might be able to get decent mileage out of her story, as the books are short and quick reads.Cons: Struck me as a Harry Potter retread with an older, female heroine.Synopsis: Morgan Rowlands finds out she's got a talent for witchcraft after superhot, supernatural Cal Blaire moves to her small, upstate NY town and starts slingin' the magic mojo around...not that anyone seems to notice or think it's weird.
Basically, the story goes a gorgeous new guy moves to town and all the girls are drawn to him.
I DIDN'T EXPECTED THIS ENDING AND I AM STILL IN A STATE OF SHOCK BUT SO HAPPY AT THE SAME TIME!Oh and I really want to learn more about Cal in the next books, and I am sure will!If you still haven't read this series, I would say that it is never too late!
This first book was a really fast read, very entertaining, I learnt a lot about Wicca and I think that it was extremely interesting!
3,5 ⭐ - Das Buch befasst sich mit dem Thema 'Wicca' und ich finde dieses Hexenthema wirklich sehr spannend und interessant. Leider wurde es mir etwas zu unrealistisch und suspekt, sonst hätte ich sicherlich noch einen Stern mehr gegeben. Dennoch ließ sich das Buch super schnell und flüssig lesen und ich habe das Gefühl, dass noch ganz viel Luft nach oben ist - ich werde also Band 2 auf jeden Fall lesen und hoffe, dass mich dieser Band noch etwas mehr begeistern kann.
3,5 ⭐️ - Das Buch befasst sich mit dem Thema 'Wicca' und ich finde dieses Hexenthema wirklich sehr spannend und interessant. Leider wurde es mir etwas zu unrealistisch und suspekt, sonst hätte ich sicherlich noch einen Stern mehr gegeben. Dennoch ließ sich das Buch super schnell und flüssig lesen und ich habe das Gefühl, dass noch ganz viel Luft nach oben ist - ich werde also Band 2 auf jeden Fall lesen und hoffe, dass mich dieser Band noch etwas mehr begeistern kann.
I just breezed through this. It reminded me of The Secret Circle. Annoying romance but it was fun and interesting.
3.5*
The writing is solid and the story is interesting. I am not a fan of clogs so I try to ignore the authors descriptions of the heroines attire. I subtracted one star for that.
This review was originally published on Blogs of a Bookaholic.A fantastic first book full of magic, mystery and discovery.
I first discovered this series aged 14, and in a weird way, I almost feel like the books chose me.
What I also love about this book is that although romance and lusting after a guy is a key plot point, (and is pretty over-dramatic) it is not the main focus.
They are all interesting, and remarkably fleshed out for such a small book.One of my all time favourite series, and I would recommend it to everyone!
As she follows a path seeming destined, her heart follows that of one she thinks beyond its reach.
Lying within this likewise unassuming YA novel is a true gem, wrought with heartache and heartbreak.
For Morgan Rowlands, she must suffer trials of family and friend alike to reach a crossroads long destined for and to choose a path which seems contrary to her upbringing.Ignore the awful reviews.
This series is a gem among the vast heaps of horrid YA novels out there.
Once you've devoured book one, and begun the second, there'll be no stopping you!!
4/5I really liked this book, I love stories about witches so I am biased though haha. The only downside to it was that it was pretty short and involved quite a bit of world building but I love the premise and romance and I am so hooked
4,5/5 Zoveel liede voor deze serie, zelfs na honderd keer lezen. Dit eerste deel is één van mijn favoriete en het leest heerlijk weg. Tijd om te binge readen?
2018 re-read! Still a great read for some less intense immersion!!
Yes, the author has taken great pains to stay as close to the actual practice as possible, but she still takes several liberties in order to make for a good story.
(As does her best friend.) Once there she discovers that the new boy Cal wants them all to help perform magic, and despite some initial misgivings Morgan does.
Like I said initially, there's a lot of liberty taken with the whole Wiccan religion.
The best way to describe this series is to compare it to a piece of chocolate.
Nononononono T_T I wanted this book to be good.
If a book is 160 pages long..
and also a part of a series with three gazillion other books...
The TV show.Anyway, that's why I bought the first three books in this series.
This book is about a bunch of teens who get involved with a wiccan witch dude who just moved into town.
Seriously, what's the point in splitting the books up this way?
Totally weird.Oh, and the best friend is way too much of a bitch.
There's no way they were friends before this.
Who'd want to be friends with that?
*Spoilers books 1-4*Tiernan has an incredible talent for creating uniquely vivid characters.
The vulnerable nature of the main character means we can begin to empathise with her unusually quickly.
We stand united with Morgan against them and we too feel crushed at Cal's betrayal.
The ending is a little forced.
Cate didn't need to end it on that note, we would have read the next one anyway.This book introduces many running themes of the series; Cal, Morgan's lineage, Christianity vs Wicca.
Some people might view this one as a little slow moving...
but the rest of the series makes up for that.
Finished yaaay! Cant wait to start book 2
Şu çember olayları sıktı biraz ama başlangıç için iyi gibi.
Morgan, 8the protagonist goes to school in a small town in new york while I went to high school in Atlanta so I know there are differences in experience there but so many things she describes as weird is not weird at my high school, like they act like a nose piercing is really rebellious when so many people I knew in high school had them.
I finished this book in 3 days and I only read it before going to bed and they are fun reads.
