https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1012796.Possible_Worlds
(86k words; ebook) Small anthology of short scientific biological-themed writings by famed biologist J.B.S. Haldane who, particularly as a population geneticist, brings an interesting perspective to his science popularizations. Most of them are too brief or sufficiently dated as to not really be worth reading, but worth noting are:  “On Being the Right Size”: one of the classic writings on allometric scaling laws, why elephants need such large legs while fleas can jump so high.  “Vitamins”: an e
(86k words; ebook) Small anthology of short scientific biological-themed writings by famed biologist J.B.S. Haldane who, particularly as a population geneticist, brings an interesting perspective to his science popularizations.
“The Fight With Tuberculosis”: another reminder of environment improvements since then - we need no longer fear many of our children will be killed by tuberculosis contracted through drinking milk.
“On being one’s own rabbit: the story of a skirmish in the war on disease”: one of the more remarkable self-experiments in medicine relating to the understanding & cure of tetany, leading to the memorable line “The most obvious thing to try was drinking hydrochloric acid.” 
A collection of mostly biological essays by Haldane, most seeming to have been previously published in the 1920s.
Some of the biological essays are still informative about the basics of the field, though you'd be well-advised to have Wikipedia on hand to double-check some of the more dated concepts (something Haldane would appear to expect, being apparently sincere in his scientific humilty).
I don't know whether to be impressed at his prescience or depressed at how slowly we work.Not all of the essays are very good.
I was amazed at how prescient this book is.
Fantastic book - some of the science is now of course inaccurate and has been disproved. However the way in which J.B.S Haldane portrays the concepts in this book are top class! Amazing to see the transition from then to now.Enjoy
