https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/110444.The_Lake_House
The story continues in the second novel of the duology.
The flock continues to fight their battles with Dr. Kane and so much more.It wasn't bad, but it was a huge letdown.
The main story wasn't tackled because of the vast amount of romance building.
When I was ready to finally finish it, Patterson decided to add in one last little scene that made the novel better than it was.
If he wrote the ending differently, this would've gotten a 2 from me.Vast amount of romance aside, this was a good novel.
The ending was better than expected, although it was a bit cheesy for me.
There was bad writing and overblown language, but the huge problems with details in this book were impossible to ignore.Like the fact that Frannie tells this story as a narrator to an audience, except when there are perspective switches to characters who tell the story in more conventional third person.
Two 3-4 lb eggs are equal to or larger than a regular human baby, and would create just as big of a lump.-And when a character "shoots the cuffs" of his windbreaker?
This is a terrible book and shouldn't be read by anyone except in possibly a Mystery Science Theatre kind of appreciation for the kind of entertainment that is so bad it's funny.
The Lake House (When the Wind Blows, #2), James PattersonThe Lake House tells the story of six extraordinary children, endowed with the power to fly after genetic engineering merged their DNA with that of birds, and who have to fight for their lives against scientists who want to clone them, producing a race of human-bird creatures.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و ششم ماه دسامبر سال 2006 میلادیعنوان: کلبه ساحلی - کتاب دوم؛ اثر: جیمز پاترسون؛ مترجم: علی فرزادفر؛ تهران، مهرکیش، 1384؛ در 273 ص؛ شابک: 9648640173؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی قرن 20 ما. شربیانی
If I had I wouldn't have read this, but I'd bought it cheap based on my like of Patterson's Alex Cross series.
The tagline on the cover 'Don't read it alone in your home' is utterly pointless, and I think it means because if you were alone you'd have no-one to rant at about the book's failings.The plot is ludicrous and seems to have been made up as Patterson went on.
I really enjoyed The Lake House by James Patterson i hadn't read him for a long time so decided to go for it.For me this was a different story to what Patterson usually writes Fantasy which i loved the characters were well read & the plot was good kept me turning the pages .The ending was really thrilling & could not stop till i finished late last night thoroughly enjoyable will have to read the first in this series to see how it all starts.I loved Max found her to be strong & determined she was the heroine for me
I don't know what possessed me to not look at the author's name before I picked this book up to read.
I started reading the book, thought to myself that I didn't like the writing style, got about 100 pages in (struggling to stay with it) and then actually checked to see who the author was.
lolSpeaking of other reviews, my favourite was from someone who said that they thought Patterson must have been tired of writing about the bird kids so he went to a grade three classroom and got each child to write one sentence until they had enough for a book!
Yikes!Published in 2003 by Hatchette AudioRead by Hope Davis and Stephen Lang.Duration: 7 hours, 35 minutes. The Lake House  is the story of six bird/human hybrids who are created as the result of genetic experiments. They all can fly and all have superhuman strength. This book is very poorly paced. Great chunks of action happen with shorthand writing and then Patterson spends nearly an hour of the 7 1/2 hour book describing two of the characters' first sexual experiences.  The Lake House  skips
is the story of six bird/human hybrids who are created as the result of genetic experiments.
skips over scenes and parts of the story moves in fits and starts.
I listen to a lot of audiobooks and many of them are abridged so I am used to odd fits and starts by poor editing.
I checked the packaging several times while listening to this book to see if it was abridged.
Sadly, the herky-jerky nature of the book cannot be blamed on poor editing during the process of abridgement because this is an unabridged reading.Technical things made the book just seem silly like...Read more at: http://dwdsreviews.blogspot.com/2012/...
There are strange things going on with this book's ratings here on Goodreads.
How is that possible?Look through the reviews and tell me how many four- and five-star ratings you see.
Both Goodreads and Amazon use a 5-star rating system, but The Lake House gets a respectable 3.78 here while it gets a dismal 2.3 on Amazon.
A whopping 52% of readers who've rated it on Amazon give it only one star!
I had just read the book's climax, which was terrible in every way possible, and I just didn't have any desire to know what would happen in the last twenty pages.DO.
James Patterson does it again!The Lake House is the follow up to When the Wind Blows, a truly magical tale.
The story opens with the inevitable court/custody battle between Kit and Franny and the parents of the winged children.
Of course in true Patterson style, there are several layers of subplot and evil doers lurking around every corner.
There was one flaw - a confrontation in the story was a little too neatly resolved.Narrators can make or break an audiobook.
I've abandoned them in the past just because the narrator wasn't good.
Fun read, but sequel almost repeat of original...Like most Patterson novels, this one raced along (on top of his usual short chapters and fast pace) to a relatively satisfying conclusion, although somehow it seemed like the last 15 miles of a 500 mile race were mysteriously eluded.
Not only is the cast identical (except for the villain) to "When the Wind Blows" (namely, Kit, Frannie, and the six bird-children), but the plot is virtually the same as well, substituting the evil "Hospital" for the evil "School" that hatched the kids in the first place.
I thought I was picking up the book of the movie The Lake House with Sandra Bullock and Keanu Reeves, about a romance that took place at a Lake House (hadn't seen the movie, but was curious).Well, don't make the same mistake I did.
It's an easy read, but it gets a little confusing because the author makes promises and you have expectations, and then he completely leaves you hanging and unsatisfied.
For example, it's called The Lake House, but takes place everywhere but.
That accurately reflects the title this book deserved.And not to forget, it's about bird people.
I kept it as mystery, since I didn't read When the Wind Blows, and since Patterson writes mysteries.
But it does have sci fi/fantasy elements in it, the mad science appeal of Robin Cook's Mutation and horror elements a tiny bit of Dean Koontz.
Maybe I should've read When the Wind Blows first.
We're introduced to Kit and Frannie and the six bird children, mainly from Maximum aka Max's POV, when they fight evil forces and the press and the people who want them dead.
I really felt for Max and Frannie and their own struggles.
These are not my favourite of James Patterson novels I find them slightly ridiculous and unbelievable. I normally love all of his novels but this and the others in this series just don't do it for me. Wouldn't recommend.
In other words, the children have wings, and all the other equipment necessary for them to fly.In When the Wind Blows, FBI agent Kit Harrison and veterinarian Frannie O’Neil rescued the bird-kids from the school.
is a direct continuation of James Patterson’s When the Wind Blows, so hopefully you read that audiobook first.I didn’t like 
I didn’t feel like James Patterson ever really established the connection between Doctor Kane and The School.
In the current series of Maximum Ride audiobooks, the bird kids are really just people with wings.
FBI agent Thomas "Kit" Brennan and veterinarian Frannie O'Neill rescued the six Winged children from the School where they lived in appalling conditions and were the subjects of dangerous experiments.
The octet lived together for four months before they were returned to their biological parents but in that time the children, who had bird DNA mixed into their genetic make up, imprinted Kit and Frannie as their parents.
Kit and Fran sued for custody and lost but when danger threatened, the children turned to their real "parents" for help.Dr. Ethan Kane works on illegal experiments using unsuspecting donors for his Resurrection project.
Well I have read many of James Patterson's novels and am usually a fan of his work.
When I chose this book for a quick pre-vacation read I was not expecting the "supernatural" and was really in the mood for a typical mystery Patterson novel.
As I began the first chapter of this book it was quite apparent this was not a typical Patterson read.
But as a fan I decided to continue reading to see where he took me and where we would end up.Well, I have to first say apparently this is a sequel to another book.
They are running and hiding from sick and twisted people from The Hospital, though only the eldest, Max, is aware of the people searching for them, (she hides it from the other, younger children).
The children come to trust two outsiders, Frannie and Kit, and begin to believe that they are only safe with them, at a cabin they refer to as “The Lake House”.
Accompanied by their saviors Frannie and Kit, the children set off on a wild adventure.
If I were to “rate” this book by James Patterson, I would give him a grand total of one and a half stars!
So, I started off with the series opener, When the wind blows, which I thoroughly enjoyed - birdlike, flying kids running from evil men - whats not to enjoy?Now, back to The Lake House.
The book continues the adventures of the flying kids, who, as a flock, decided that Kit and Frannie, their saviors from the first book, has to be the flocks parents.
From there on out it is the same story over again, evil men, one of which is cloned, chasing the flock.
As the story develops Dean Koontz and Stephen King pick up the pen and plunges the reader into horror.
The Lake House and its avian twist isn’t like any James Patterson book to date.
The chapters are short and the story flows from the pages.
This said, I must say I was somewhat disappointed of the end result.
The creation of a new avian species stretched the gullibility of the reader to the breaking point.
The original concept was great but the end result was disappointing.
This book can be summed up in four words…….ALMOST A GREAT READ!
More like a 2.5 than a 2This book was a little better than the first one.
Like I get it that they are part bird so they're a little different, BUT STILL THEY ARE FREAKING TWELVE!!!I'm beginning to wonder if maybe James Patterson just isn't for me, but that breaks my heart a little bit because I have such great memories of reading the Maximum Ride series when I was younger.
"Six extraordinary children are trying to lead normal lives in the Rocky Mountain countryside.
They live in different homes, with different families, but there is something powerful that connects them.
Something that puts them in terrible danger.
The only time they've ever felt safe was when they were together in the waterfront cabin they call the Lake House.
They flee to the Lake House, but even that haven may no longer be safe.
It is here that terrible secrets lie, secrets that will change the world for all of us.
it was a fast read, sometimes the switch between how it was narrated was hard to adjust to. subject was OK.
This book has way too much "show not tell, then show 3 more times, shove the point down the readers' throat, and then still spell it out" to be /telling/ the reader how intellectually advanced the children are.
Also - (view spoiler)[The 12-year-old gives birth, and chooses to do that alone without calling for any of the flock she wanted to badly to keep together?
That 12-year-old love thing is what ruined the (view spoiler)[His Dark Materials (hide spoiler)] trilogy for me too.
I really liked reading this book!FBI agent Kit Harrison and veterinarian Frannie O’Neill are seen fighting for the custody of their six genetically inclined children.
As the children spend time with their birth parents, things start to become overwhelming for the oldest child, Max. She is surrounded by reporters who don’t stop asking her questions about The School and her possible future as a mutant in the real world.
The children run away to find the parents they want to be with, Frannie and Kit. As soon as the “flock” is reunited they all run away because they know bad people are out there to try and capture the children.
It seems that a lot of James Patterson's books are either hit or miss with me.
It seemed pretty good from reading the synopsis of it, but then when I read it the synopsis was truthful and all but it left out a good deal of the real storyline, for example that the kids in the book are half human, half bird.
I'm not sure if he was talking about bird children, in which case that would be frightening, or if he was talking about something else from the book.
Anyway, I just didn't care enough for this book to actually finish reading it.
Gory and sexy and dramatic and suspenseful as it should be, but when it came to the ends of the plot threads, I felt like Patterson just completely lost interest, or was simply out of ideas.
The first plot ending is hurried and leaves you unfulfilled, and I even started to think if maybe I'd skipped a chapter or two.
The rest of the book (the ends of other plot threads) then follows the same pattern and for the first time in my life I was forced to admit that a bad ending can indeed ruin a good story.
I wasn't terribly thrilled with "Lake House" as I was reading it, but when I got to the end, I started flipping back through to see if I had accidentally skipped some pages, or if my copy had a printing error.
Patterson completely skipped the action he was building up to.
Not even any explanation of how they got out, or what the bad guys were doing.
I kind of feel like saying I was cheated with the ending, but the rest of the book really wasn't all that good, so there was no promise to be cheated out of.
The story "The Lake House" is very good book.
You start to care about the kids and the troubles they have to deal with and the drama of being a kid growing up and the extra stress that ensues because they are very special.
When Max the other kids taken away from Kit and Dr. O'Neill in the beginning of the book and they are given to their parents their trouble only grows and makes things harder for everyone.
This is a very good book and I would recommend this to anyone who likes drama and adventure books.
This book was similar to the first one but this book got me so surprised and shocked. The book has so many unexpected moments especially around the end, I definitely recommend this book and the first one if you like suspenseful books.
This is a bestseller? Ugh. Bad. Off the charts bad. Cardboard characters. One dimensional villain. Oh, and 12 year-olds having sex? No thanks.
