https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33572350-my-absolute-darling
Given all the glowing reviews and buzz surrounding My Absolute Darling, I really wanted to like this book.
Writing books takes time and effort and this writer has put in the work and so none of this rises out of ill will.
Given how this book is about trauma and violence, I wanted to love it (for lack of a better word).
Her eyes are her most striking feature, blue, almond-shaped in a face that is too lean, with wide, sharp cheekbones, and her crooked, toothy mouth—an ugly face, she knows, and an unusual one."The description makes her sound like a Star Trek alien.She gets her period and just dips her fingers in her pussy to feel her “menarche” and then gives it a lil taste and fine, maybe this would happen, but… sigh.
“The truth of you, if it is there at all, exists beyond an unbridgeable and irreducible epistemological gap.” Wow, I 100% know what people mean when they say they felt like they read a completely different book from everyone else. The critics have been loving My Absolute Darling. All the reviews appearing in my feed have been singing its praises. Stephen King gave it the thumbs up. And yet, I found this painfully awful. On multiple levels.Where do I even begin? I could start with what I suppose
My Absolute Darling is about a girl who calls herself Turtle, who lives out in the woods of Northern California with her abusive father, Martin.
You have Martin who goes on weird, lengthy philosophical rants (see opening quote) that made me roll my eyes, Turtle who thinks in a stream of "fucker"s and "motherfucker"s, and Jacob and Brett who make me wonder if the author actually knows ANY teenagers.By far the most painful chapters are those where Jacob and Brett go on and on for pages, speaking like this:“This cheese is sick.
This book was all consuming.
I wanted to save Turtle from her monster father all throughout this book.
The writing is some of the finest I've ever come across in modern literature, and I dare say it actually got me out of the book rut I was in.
There will be much debate about this book to come.
I do feel these scenes were appropriate because they show the depravity of Turtle's father, Martin.
I want to put this out there, if this is a made into a movie I think Michael Shannon should play Martin.
Warning: extreme and disturbing material!This is a psychologically chilling, dark and disturbing novel set in remote Mendocino, California, charting the dysfunctional, an understatement, relationship between 14 year old Turtle (Julia) and her end of the world believer, armed to the teeth, survivalist father, Martin, who has stockpiled dried food that will last 3 years.
However, chinks begin to appear in Turtle's armour as she begins to become aware that others live different lives, with more integrity and decency, and that it is possible for her to have the potential to make friends and relationships that challenge the way she and her father live.
At the start of "My Absolute Darling", it's clear by the descriptions--that Author Gabriel Tallent wasn't painting us a rosy picture of Turtle's home life --no matter how gorgeous the beach was.
Grandpa Daniel knew it was no way for his son, Martin, to raise a girl, and was definitely more than concerned - and at 'first' not aware of 'how' bad things were --but by the time he did discover 'bruises' on Turtle's body, it was too late to make permanent influential power.....but not for the lack of trying.
These false accusations are offensive and say more about the individual and their low view of women than it does about anyone else.Here's the truth: If anything, the book is getting high ratings  despite its disturbing content.
For proof of this, read any number of the excellent reviews for this book.Also, it's been said that "real victims" don't act the way Turtle does.
It almost feels as if there's a deliberate attempt to stir adrenaline in the reader or even to reap enjoyment from reading about the graphic sexual abuse.
It isn't the story line per se, but the way that it's presented to the reader.
Disturbing, Riveting, and Impossible To Put DownEasiest five stars I've given all year.This book will take your breath away.Turtle and her father live on the Northern California Coast.
As Turtle grows and matures she suddenly realizes that the walls are closing in around her and she senses a rising urgency for freedom.
I'm never one to back away from a book that has the potential to make me slightly uncomfortable.
I found myself rooting for Turtle, an unlikely heroine.
I'm always for that!Important Trigger Warning: While this story pushed my limits as a reader and I found it fascinating, it certainly is NOT for everyone.
He is an extreme renegade survivalist and has isolated Turtle from friends, from people.They live in a remote part of California along the coast where she often escapes in order to breathe and sort out the emotional mess and confusion she is gripped with.
During one of these escapes, she makes a friend.
It was gripping but if you aren't comfortable with being uncomfortable, this is definitely a novel to stay away from.Would I recommend it?
But, at the same time, I'm not sure I would have arrived there if he hadn't.
Once the reader is allowed to witness the training Turtle's father puts such a premium on, the sense of dread doesn’t slowly creep up on you, it hits you right between the eyes.
But, while Turtle is aware enough on some level that she is different from the other students in school, and she dutifully covers up her bizarre upbringing.‘Turtle wonders if there are things that she is blind to that other people see, and what those things might be.’She accepts the confines of her life, copes with her father as best she can, convinced he loves her, until she meets Jacob, purely by chance.
She has grown up isolated since the death of her mother, and is raised by her charismatic father Martin, who is an awful man who tortures her.
She says that she was asleep in her bedroom and Martin left the mudroom door open and when Turtle woke up a mountain lion was in bed with her.
Her life with Martin, her dad, is not safe and he wants Turtle all to himself.
Turtle then starts imagining her escape from Martin.
I think a lot of people will love this book and others will hate it.
I have rarely been so overwhelmed with the sheer physicality of my response to a book.
And it is not where I want to be, but I can't look away.At the same time, it is beautiful.
But it's no easy dichotomy at work here, she is lost within the abusive world she inhabits, loving and hating her father in equal measure.
Focusing on the murky nature of human emotion and behaviour, this book beings life to technicolour reality; clarity is the easy answer in fiction and this aims so much higher than that.An outstanding and daring debut, a literary masterpiece, and a piece of emotive fiction that'll be very hard to forget.
This book is about physical, emotional and sexual abuse of a fourteen-year-old girl by her father.
Hell, we all should be turned off by it!Turtle Alveston is a fourteen-year-old girl living with her survivalist father in Northern California (her Mother is Dead).
I feel that those two books were able to pull off what this book could not - a more believable viewpoint on survival-ism (The Marsh King's Daughter) and sick twisted relationships with molestation (The Roanoke girls)No matter what you think of this book, it has people talking, and I believe that was the Author's intention.
As I bathed in the stream of raw sewage that constitutes “dialog” I kept thinking back on Claire Fuller’s Our Endless Numbered Days, which also features abusive father-daughter incest (now, that phrase is a pleonasm!) in the wilds, but is so much subtler and nuanced that for me it epitomized that difference between English and American literature & culture that accounts for my general aversion to contemporary American fiction by male authors.
Unlike anything I’ve read before.” That’s Kate Hamer, author of The Girl in the Red Coat, whose character Gramps is the most evil and disgusting I’d encountered in recent fiction (including the Gardener in The Butterfly Garden) till I met Turtle’s father Martin.
Truth be told, I saw so many four and five star reviews that I think I probably read a different book from the rest of them.
Well, that never happened and now I get to add this to my files as a book that never should have been written (in my opinion).Turtle, the fourteen year old daughter of an abusive sicko father, has been abused sexually, physically, and emotionally.
He has turned Turtle into a girl who can take care of herself.
Could it have been achieved by other means?In response to an earlier observation I made on this site-- that the central child character’s reaction to her abuse (i.e.,wanting to be raped and responding with gun violence)--was not representative of an abuse/assault victim, another Goodreads member sought to take me in hand by (flippantly and dismissively, I believe) pointing out that an author is under no obligation to create books and characters that are “poster children for victims of sexual violence”.
Turtle, the central character in this piece (and her responses) is/are dwarfed by the graphic, sensational, and frankly gratuitous details of the physical, sexual and emotional violence done to her.
Turtle is fourteen years old and lives with her father Martin.
She goes to middle school but is a very reserved child who has difficulties excelling in school.
This encounter ignites a spark in Turtle that propels her to question the relationship she has with her father.
Turtle is an amazing character.
The novel is narrated from her point of view and the author did an excellent job developing the story and her journey.The book contains strong scenes that are described meticulously well.
The novel is interesting, dark and beautifully written.I highly recommend this wonderful book.FINAL NOTE: what a stunning cover!
For me it's a positive rating and should be viewed as a recommendation to read if the subject matter or author interests you and that's firmly the recommendation that I give to 'My Absolute Darling'.
The novel follows the story of young Turtle Alveston and her abusive upbringing by her father.
Sadly, I did feel that the climax of the novel let the story down.
I would very much recommend it to anyone interested in literary fiction but who has a more suitable disposition than I do when reading a book containing such severe language and abusive situations.
It's not okay to portray unspeakable violence against a child as though it were a thriller novel and posit it as high literary art.
This book, with its overwritten prose that borders on the baroque, glorifies the rape and incest and abuse of Turtle by suggesting that the teen might possibly enjoy it, in her confused love for and loyalty to her sociopathic father.
The writer sexualizes the violence against Turtle and demeans her at every step.
Although nominally in close third person, Turtle's POV is distant and unnatural, revealing the writer's distance from his character and his exploitation of her as a means to a plot point.
This is one of the hardest novels for me to review .....
Honestly, I was about to finish My Absolute Darling after approximately 100 pages.
The sheer horror of the story was much too much for me at that moment.
Some scenes were too explicit for me Yet, I continued, and I'm glad I read it till the very end.
Turtle is a most unusual girl, abused in the most horrid ways imaginable ....
and yet, she knows how to survive.
Will I read it at some point again?
Will I think about Turtle?
Hard as I tried I just couldn’t love this book.
Heavy on content and heavy on descriptions made this book well....heavy.
Such as most of the content of the book the writing felt murky.
I guess this was the power of this book but I struggled to want to read it.
I think maybe the story was too despairing and I wasn’t in the best frame of mind to tackle this heavy subject at this particular time in my life.
Nor do I think I’ll ever be reading this one again.

I normally don't write about books that I don't finish and don't like giving negative reviews, but with all of the hype on this book, I thought there needed to be some balance of opinions.
I have since discussed this book with 3 others who have read it and also disliked it, mainly for the themes, the long winded descriptions, the violence, etc.
I think there are many readers who just don't review books or give their honest opinions on Goodreads.
I tend to rely on the ratings on Goodreads and it does influence what I read and how long I stay with it until I just stop and move on.
Reading this book is a grueling experience, and not one to be undertaken lightly.Equal parts compelling and appalling, I've seen other reviews describe My Absolute Darling as "unputdownable".
It's incredibly tough to read at times.When I eventually returned to the book, I found a gripping story, powerfully told and with unforgettable characters.
The tension created is palpable, almost unbearable at times, especially towards the end as the inevitable showdown looms and then plays out.Many scenes from this book will be etched on my memory.
But I can't recommend My Absolute Darling without hesitation - its dark content and the ambiguity with which it deals with these themes make for one tough read.
Let me just say that I found it to be an incredibly compelling portrait of survival and coming-of-age: of a girl who is a survivor in the only way she knows how--by hunkering down in her shell (her nickname is Turtle, after all)--until at last she recognizes what she's been experiencing as the abuse it always was.
Turtle's abusive father, Martin, is an erudite left-wing gun-toting survivalist.
And this, in many ways, is her conundrum: that the father who taught her so much, who made her who she is and equipped her for survival, has also been traumatizing her for his own selfish ends.
This debut novel awed me. It destroyed me. It inspired me. Yes, it's the story of a 14-year-old girl, her knife, her Sig Sauer, and her sadistic, survivalist father. But it is also one of the most beautifully written and spectacularly poignant novels I have ever read. I loved every single word. Every. Single. Word.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/  “I thought at least you could give me this, you could at least do that, but the truth is that you give me nothing.” Welcome to my favorite week of the year! Unfortunately, real life kind of got in the way and I failed to realize Banned Book Week was quickly approaching until I received the pop-up reminder on my calendar this morning. It just so happens that by some strange coincidence I had finished My Absolute Darling last week and
While not yet a “banned” or “challenged” book, I figure it will only be a matter of time before this selection becomes one due to its disturbing subject matter and the fact that since it is about a 14 year old girl, there’s a good chance young people will want to read it.What you have here is a coming of age story about a girl who named Turtle (actual name Julia).
And I’m going to go ahead and spoil this because readers really need to know what they’re getting into here before they decide to add this to their TBR: Turtle’s father is not only emotionally and physically abusive throughout the story, but their relationship is also incestous.
Gasp. Gasp!! Oh man gasp!!! 4.25 stars. Um...I don’t even know where to start with this one. I kept putting this book aside, it was nerve wrecking. And it’s considered to be a young adult genre type book!??! Yup, this book was a tough read indeed, it was full of angst.
I may be missing out on a masterpiece but I.just.can’t!
I don’t want to read another book about a semi-feral child with wilderness skills and a depraved father, and I definitely don’t want to read another book about (view spoiler)[incest (hide spoiler)]this.
I struggled with the writing style, from the father’s philosophical diatribes to the descriptions of the landscape, but the gratuitous language employed to describe...well, let’s just say I’m not up for continuing this journey.
I stuck with this one much longer than I should have.
Others readers that I greatly respect have given this very high marks and deemed it worth the pain.
(DNF @ 6%) Another  Samuel Hawley  this ain’t. I’d heard such amazing things about this debut novel and was indeed impressed by the descriptive language and characterization. Fourteen-year-old Julia “Turtle” Alveston lives in a creepy derelict house with her father, Martin. Their little pocket of California is their whole world, and they have their own rules here. Turtle knows a lot about guns but not much that will help her in school. That’s okay, because her father doesn’t value traditional ed
Fourteen-year-old Julia “Turtle” Alveston lives in a creepy derelict house with her father, Martin.
That’s okay, because her father doesn’t value traditional education at a time of environmental catastrophe.
He’s very clued-in about the state of the world, and reads Hume, for goodness’ sake; he’s not the bruiser he might at first appear.
But (view spoiler)[he also uses demeaning language towards Turtle, language she’s internalized and uses against herself, and there’s a possessive, sexual nature to their relationship.
There’s a chance I might come back to this book someday, but I think I’d want to hear some more reassurances that it’s worth sticking around.
However, my review was not based on receiving an advanced copy and my judgement was colored by having read two very similar books previously that were, by far, much better.
For me, the Darling story was a rip off of this one and not a very good one.In addition, one of the best books and movies created is Winter's Bone, an astounding tale set in the deepest backwoods of the Ozarks.
While each each book read should be rated on its own merits, My Absolute Darling was simply too similar to each of these others and it drew its own comparison.
