https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/790637.The_Haunting_of_Toby_Jugg
But paralyzed as he is and marooned in the lonely countryside, what can Toby do to protect himself from these diabolical forces, other than scribble daily entries into his journal?As touched on earlier, "Toby Jugg" does not feature as many thrilling sequences as had "The Devil Rides Out" (probably Wheatley’s best-known book, and one that was turned into a fine Hammer film in 1968, starring Christopher Lee), but yet manages to dish out several exceptionally well-done scenes.
Toby is unable to convince anyone of the reality of this entity, and he slowly comes to believe that there is a ploy against him, a plot to send him mad, or to make it appear that he is already mad.
It’s really an elaborate and bizarre conspiracy theory story rather than a conventional horror story.
It’s also a severely paranoid right-wing conspiracy theory.
As a horror thriller it’s exciting and gripping – Wheatley demonstrates considerable skill in building up an atmosphere of menace, suspicion and supernatural dread.
I first read this 30 years ago, and in a fit of nostalgia I thought I'd re-read it. The scene in, which a master of the black arts, summons hundreds of spider into the main characters bedroom, had remained with me ever since. On my return,I was not disappointed, and Dennis Wheatley definitely had the gift of story telling. The guff about communist infiltration and trendy left-wing schooling needs to be taken with a pinch of salt. Just enjoy.
Actually this wasn't too bad. A supernatural Rear Window.Having wasted most of my pocket money on this author during my early teens I've no intention of re-reading his stuff though.
Love the old school feel of this - the black and white paradigm of the characters - although it's so right wing in places as to be laughable: all the satanists are foreigners, and communism itself is an invention of Lucifer to drive the world into Hades - Helmuth predicts a Socialist government after the war like he's foretelling the apocalypse - yet for some reason this makes it all the more enjoyable. Comfortable as an old slipper, and entertaining as hell.
This is primarily because the title character is bedridden, so the majority of time is spent learning of his plots to escape his villainous keepers.Among Wheatley’s books, THE HAUNTING OF TOBY JUGG gained great notoriety for the embodiment of the Satanic demon creature that is unleashed on Toby Jugg.
The book is also one of Wheatley’s “Black Magic” series, so its fans will be attracted to yet another Satanic manifestation.The novel did trouble me in a number of ways:* The journal style which is written by Toby Jugg sets up numerous “Will he survive?” moments.
Book was excellent!! Much Much better than the film.
And I can't imagine the villages and towns through which war waged were all that uninvolved.Anyway, the point Toby is making is that previously, people had more "time for ample reflection … and thought more about the mystery of creation".
Julia is married to Toby's Uncle Paul (the black sheep of the family and weak in character), and they live at Queensclere in Kent.Llanferdrack Castle is……the estate Grandfather bought for his sister, Toby's Great-aunt Sarah, when her fiancé, Lord "Lancelot" Llanferdrack, drowned the day before the wedding.
(solicitors); and later, Uncle Paul.Nanny Trotter was Toby's nurse; Miss Stiggins is a spinster who gave Toby lessons until he went away to school.
A shadow that looks like a giant, tentacled octopus (what it actually is kind off given away by the cover of the book!), that is determined to break into your room.
On the negative side, I really don't think you can create a true sense of menace when the book is written in diary entries - you kind of know that Toby must survive otherwise the diary couldn't continue.
So some of the action in the earlier parts of the book ends up being a bit tame.
So for me the story becomes more of a thriller as he puzzles his way out of the situation, rather than a really true horror story.
I was probably in my early twenties or maybe late teens when I read this book, and it scared me to death. Its probably the reason I don't like going to bed with all of the lights off, and the sound of a tree tapping against a window fills me with dread. Dennis Wheatley is probably seen as old fashioned these days, but he is a truly gifted writer with attention to detail second to none. Toby Jugg has the trademark supernatural occurrences, but it also has a masterful pace that increases the suspense as it reaches a climax.
I almost gave this 4 stars, but somewhere toward the end, satansim, communism, socialism, and Hinduism were stars of the show, declaring that God didn't exist and as a Christian I find that sad. However, it all ended up good in the end. An interesting story all in all and I wasn't scared at all, like I thought I would be. The very beginning almost lost me, but I pushed on and I am glad that I did.
As is the case with these sorts of stories, a bucket load of plot twists make sure that nothing is ever quite what it seems.It is incredibly easy to read without and fluff or pretentious description.
It also flows well and every time you fear the story is creeping towards the anti climactic, a new twist is thrown in that keeps it as a bona fide page turner.It isn't perfect however.
Wheatley was a product of his era where socialists are the enemy (when everyone know that they are the heroes!) and that the upper classes are the rulers of society.
He is now being housed in one of his family’s estates.
He is set to inherit all his family’s millions on his next birthday.
He was mostly raised by hit aunt and uncle , since his father died when he was quite young and his mother died giving birth to him.
He has an overseer who is telling him he’s going mad.
Are there really devils or ghosts?is his overseer trying to drive him crazy.
His aunt and uncle ?
Very good story with some very creepy things going on and very good protagonists to cheer for in Toby and his nurse.
An enjoyable enough piece of nonsense for the Halloween period..light on characters and it reads in the form of a journal from a terrorised wheelchair bound young chap awaiting his inheritance whilst a diabolical conspiracy forms around him.All in all good fun and it's always a joy to find a Wheatley paperback nestling on a shelf in a charity shop waiting being liberated and ending up on my to be read pile...
Quite readable but not particularly convincing...I found the main character a bit of an upper-class wimp, despite his disability and previous heroic occupation as a wartime fighter pilot. It was all rather predictable, I thought, and despite reading it in bed, I still managed to sleep at night! At least there was no foul language, so I should credit Mr Wheatley for that.
Cheap thrills
However, he is struggling with the horror outside his window, that only shows up when the moon is nearly full...This is the first thriller novel that I have read, and so I cannot compare it to anything else, but Dennis Wheatley builds up the suspense brilliantly, to the point where you are immersed in Toby's plight, waiting for the next tap on the window, urgently trying to escape, wondering whether he is in fact going slowly insane.For those of you who have seen the Robert Pattinson film "The Haunted Airman", which is loosely based on this book (and is in fact a very good film in its own right), do not expect much overlap.
Apart from the ending, this is a first class thriller of its kind.
Dennis Wheatley is the master of suspense and can be guaranteed to distract anyone from the boredome of waiting for a delayed flight or similar.
Many scenes remain in my memory to this day, nearly 50 years later, which says something for the impression this writer can make (I read plenty of Mary Stewart and Patricia Highsmith at different stages of my life too but can remember close to nothing from all of their books which I read).
I was absolutely right.Wheatley created a situation where, at times, you find yourself doubting the validity of the main character.
All of his fears and rationalizations seem plausible but so do the other characters rationalizations for why they aren't.
Even then, you're still wondering if this is more spinning of truths in Toby's head.
It isn't until the very end of the story, when you're tired and frantically worried for the main character, do you find out the real truth.By then you're so happy the whole ordeal is over.
It's as though you're experiencing everything the main character does, down to mental and physical anguish.
Well, dear old Dennis might be more than a little politically incorrect these days, but if you're prepared to skim-read the paragraphs about religion, foreigners, communists, liberals, weak-willed women and suchlike, you've got a fairly well-plotted little intrigue going on here.
Thanks, Dennis.Oh - and I have to laugh at that edition of the book cover with a bloody great spider on it (not to mention a chap with crutches that dear old Toby makes very plain he's not allowed).
Bizarrely, when Toby does realise it's a spider, he counts it as having six legs...
This book started amazinly well.
The writing was much better than other books by Wheatley and it was very atmospheric and spooky.
Still it was quite enjoyable and very claustophobic.
The satanists seemed less eloquent than in previous books and the debates weren't quite as entertaining.
That said there was a lovely satanic boarding school where the kids were allowed to study what they wanted, taught atheism, and allowed to have sex with whomever they liked.
I thought that sounded like a lot of fun!
Enjoyable, but a bit too drawn out.
This book takes quite a while to get going but it builds slowly to a great conclusion. You start the book wondering about Toby's sanity and the twists and turns in the narrative keep you guessing. The poor man suffers throughout and just when you think he may be achieving something, it all goes wrong. He just doesn't know who he can trust. Wheatley probably gives a little too much background; perhaps a little more than we need. The book is a little bit dated and Wheatley's political views grated with me a little. Overall an excellent read.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book! Not only was the plot great, the author slowly dropped information that I had already assumed and I then found out I was wrong which changed my perspective on the whole story. I enjoyed that the narrator was highly unreliable so I had no idea whether what he was recounting was true or not. I recommend this book as the plot is amazing, as is the style in which it is written.
I gave this one a go because for years, my mother always said that it was the most terrifying thing she'd ever read.My auntie agreed. She said that it was so scary she couldn't sleep with the light off for days.I guess it was a different time then. I got through it because I wasn't going to let it beat me. Hats off to the guy for being the first to do this stuff (If you ignore all the others) but I'm done, thanks.
If this and other Dennis Wheatley books were re-written for this century's audience and political and social norms, the story about a rich disabled orphan kid being manipulated and made to assume he is mad and should be sent to an asylum by his carers would be excellent. However, the social and political views expressed by the author almost a century ago, distract from the story and is why the rating for this book is low.
Old school black magic shenannigans! Very much a product of its era... long diatribes against the dangers of socialism, some thinly veiled anti semitism and very pro Empire, which makes it a little problematic. On the other hand it's interesting to read something not of our time. Probably not as good as 'The Devil Rides Out' which is still a genre-setter, but an intrigueing and occasionally scary dip into the past.
Exciting tale of a war veteran being scared into madness. The story is told through a diary, which works well, as at times the reader is unsure of whether the hero is fully in control of his mental facilities or not. The action is slow in the first half, but gathers pace as it moves into the final scenes. The book has dated badly in some respects, and the portrayal of communism as being a puppet of the satanists is very heavy-handed.
A bit boring in the beginning, but when the Satanist-Communist plot to overthrow British democracy (!) unfolds, it really turns into an interesting picture of the times. Wheatley's blatant political commentary might make it awkward for those looking for a quick thrill, but with a little historical knowledge his remarks actually make the reading more interesting. Definitely recommended.
This is not a good book. I found the story ridiculous and at a lot of times contrived. The lead character was just annoying. The ability to hypnotise people on a whim was just laughable. The biggest disappointment with the book though is the promised horror is not there and the supernatural aspect is very weak. I would not recommend this.
I enjoyed the story and the description around the spiders being drawn to Toby's room was nasty and great suspense. The book felt quite dated, but you have to ignore that and just enjoy the story. i enjoyed Toby's character and his trials will live with the reader for a while after. Helmuth was a great dark character too. Dennis Wheatley writes a good occult thriller, and this won't disappoint.
