https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1303921.Not_So_Quiet_
Shut your ears, Mother and Mrs. Evans-Mawnington, lest their groans and heartrending cries linger as long in your memory as in the memory of the daughter you sent to help win the War.See the stretcher bearers lifting the trays one by one, slotting them deftly into my ambulance.
Out of the way quickly, Mother and Mrs. Evans-Mawnington — lift your silken skirts aside… a man is spewing blood, the moving has upset him, finished him… He will die on the way to hospital if he doesn’t die before the ambulance is loaded.
Just imagine.Foremostly this is a very realistic look at aspects of the Great War which don't generally get much notice, such as that there were women serving as ambulance drivers, but also at how the people at home reacted to what was taking place, at why so many veterans never talked about their experiences, what the carnage engendered and what it killed in the minds and hearts of participants, how values got completely destroyed and what mattered and what didn't anymore matter to these people.
Satin slippers to match, not tiny – my feet were always largish; so were my hands...Was that a scream from inside?....Such a trouble Mother had getting white gloves my size to go up above the elbow...Was it a scream?....My hair up for the first time....oh, God a scream this time....
my hair up in little rolls at the back....another scream – the madman has started, the madman has started.
The madman has set the shell-shocked man howling like a mad dog...Lily Elsie, I think it was....What are they doing to one another in there?“Let me out.
Lily Elsie...“Stop screaming.
Due to odd circumstances, I did not get to read All Quiet on the Western Front in eighth grade. I'll make up for it one day. And I'll read that novel that Metallica based their MTV=hitvideo "One" upon. But then too I'll add this one, Not So Quiet, to that very same queue (no particular placement), on the strength of the following excerpt provided by gr's own BURIED Modernist Expert, Jonathan ::http://www.feministpress.org/sites/de...
Price didn’t want to merely invent war stories, she was able to use the first hand experiences of a former ambulance driver in France, Winifred Constance Young; whose family like that of the fictional Helen Smith had been proud of their daughter’s wartime service but unable to face up to its harsh and uncomfortable realities.
The words ambulance driver don’t in away adequately describe the work these women undertake, driving several causalities at a time, men hideously injured, screaming, vomiting, bleeding as the drivers try to negotiate their way from the receiving station to one of thirteen hospitals, number thirteen the furthest out and therefore the one dreaded, along pitch black uneven roads, and back again.
Rated 3.5 stars
This book was written in the 1930's by Helen Zenna Smith as she recounted the time she served as a VAD for the Army.
It was considered shameful to be a kitchen helper as you weren't really "doing your part" to help fight the war.AFter I got used to the lingo and the type of writing I really enjoyed this book.
Like I said in my review of the Birth House by Ami McKay, I enjoy books about women in this time period.
I am seriously obsessed with women's history.
This is the first WWI novel I have read, which might be part of the reason why I found it so incredible.
I was incredibly moved by the book.
It brought to life--in my imagination--the utter horror of the Great War in a way that I have never experienced before.
It chills me greatly to imagine that the events in this book actually happened, people actually suffered--men and women my age, sent off to this unimaginable war a century ago.
It almost sickens me the distance--in time, in experience, in consequences, in everything--that separates me from those people.
One of the better WWI books I've had to read for school and I always appreciate reading things from the female perspective - three cheers for the rise of feminism and equality!World War One revolutionized how war was fought.
The narrator, Helen Zenna Smith, was a young 20 year old upper class woman who was a volunteer ambulance driver on the French front.
The writing of this book was a feminist contrast to the popular WWI book, All Quiet on the Western Front and it highlights the sisterhood of Smith and her comrades while focusing on the female perspective on the war.
A thoroughly depressing yet apt end. I still loved it though!
This book is remarkable, easily one of the best books I have ever read.
This book follows a group of upper class British women driving ambulances in France during World War I, all told from the POV of one character.
The protagonist has amazing insights into her world, puts a mirror up to (then) contemporary British society, and is one of the most profound looks into the demoralizing natures of war.
It was incredibly difficult to read, seeing the carnage and watching the dynamic shifts in the protagonist.
A truly remarkable read.
An emotionally meaningful journey into the numbness and shellshock that typified many veterans from the Great War, even ambulance drivers like the narrator. Fictionalized from her own experiences, Smith delivers the anti-war punch not focused so much on the futility and horror of war but mostly on those who promoted the war: the proud parents who were more pleased that their son was decorated with a Victoria Cross than upset that he returned home either maimed or in a wooden box. A powerful journey into one woman's experience.
This book is quite literally the female equivalent of All Quiet on the Western Front. Unfortunately, it's relatively unknown. It not only provides the parallel female war volunteer perspective of WWI, but reveals essential details that are largely left out of a male-centric telling of the war. The narrator provides a sarcastic, biting look at the propaganda of war, without sending the reader into full-on depression. In fact, some passages had me laughing out loud. I recommended this to my book club because I'm so obsessed with it. Read it. It'll take you two days and it's so worth it.
This is a book I have read time and time again over the years and portrays the lives of young women who became ambulance drivers in the horrors or the First World War ..
Warms the feminist heart while chilling the anti-war bones.
This is a novel about the experience of being a VAD ambulance driver during the Great War, something less than a cushy existence as it turns out.
. As she thought this was an appalling concept (how could anyone not think so?) she resolved to write a book on women’s war experience, hence the novel’s subtitle Stepdaughters of War, basing it on the memories of a wartime ambulance driver, Winifred Constance Young.
Not so Quiet mirrors many aspects of Remarque’s book but with more emphasis on daily routine.
I am told, by a possibly unreliable source, that the author set out to write a parody of All's Quiet on the Western Front but instead wrote a serious work based on the war diaries of a female ambulance driver.
She describes dropping off stretchers of men with the most inoperable of injuries, and thankfully, doesn't have the knowledge of just how badly they would end up being treated at the makeshift hospitals of her time.
But I do--or at least can imagine it.Every time you hear a person attempt to glorify war, you should slap them across the face with this book.
4.5 StarsOriginally published in 1930, Not So Quiet is one of those faux memoir style epistolary novels describing the experiences of World War 1 ambulance driver Helen Smith, aka "Smithy".
Some passages are just of life around camp, while others talk about the politics and common opinions of the day that these women were up against, as well as Helen's observances of the horrors of war -- the physical and mental injuries military personnel endured while their families back home lauded them for "doing their part" for the war effort, making these men and women almost god-like without really understanding the traumas they were faced with on a daily basis.
Fascinating look into the lives of women ambulance drivers in The Great War. Reflecting the war, this story is designed to strip any romanticism from wars, with harrowing details, disillusions, and a bleak ending. Patriotism is ridiculed. No worthy cause. No redemption.
Another to really resonate in my A levels, and got me back into reading again a few years ago when I just hadn't bothered for a while (uni and stuff), despite the content. Hard hitting, scathing, and painful real talk.
fantastic book
4.75/5⭐️
This is a must read for anyone interested in World War 1.https://piningforthewest.co.uk/2018/0...
Brilliant, sad novel based on the diary of a WW1 female ambulance driver
I would give this book more stars if I could. It's been awhile since a book affected me deeply enough to make me cry into my falafel on my lunch break.
This author, who is fairly obscure and unread, wrote with such passion about the conditions under which the Volunteer Aide Detachment (VAD) ambulance drivers worked, that it’s hard to believe she didn’t work in that capacity herself.
It’s a grueling life, highlighted by a vindictive leader, near-starvation rations, harrowing races through snow and darkness in ambulances they have to maintain themselves and a shocking realization of what these women tolerated to do their jobs.There is one part of the story where, in her mind, Helen is inviting her mother and a co-worker who both recruit young women for the VAD and yet have no idea what is happening in France, to come along with her in her ambulance.
I don't like reading war books.
But instead of focusing on the soldiers, the story repositions the focal point and takes a look at the women ambulance drivers.
Yet Smith crafts the language and structure of the plot so that the readers come to their own conclusions about war.
It is undeniably an anti-war novel, but not through preaching.Not So Quiet ...
Smith eases us to this point, so Nelly's emotional arc seems natural.
Smith crafts the plot with a gentle hand, allowing the readers to come to their own conclusions about war.
By focusing energy on Nelly rather than on specific battle facts, Smith creates a timeless work.
It also, almost universally, centers on the climactic moments, the engagement between foes, the risking it all, the promise of life, the threat of death.
How unusual then to find a novel, written by a woman, in which the climactic moments are not on the battlefields but in the hospital ward, not pitting her being against another to the death, but pitting it against death for another, trying to save and comfort the maimed and screaming brought in on a nightly caravan.Even as the soldiers under fire do, she questions her courage and fears the mark of cowardice.“I am the type who should have stayed at home, that shrinks from blood and filth, and is completely devoid of pluck.
In other words I am a coward.
… A rank coward.
I’m a bit of a WWI fiend, and I was thrilled to pick this up since it was focused on a wartime experience I haven’t read about previously.
It contrasts pretty sharply with the often sarcastic, more detailed narrative that makes up most of the book, and the experience is a bit nervous-making for the reader, as suits the material well.
Roughly a third of this edition is taken up by a lengthy essay about WWI, the women’s movement in Great Britain prior to and during the war, and what women wrote in response to the war and to their experiences with it.
Many of these very young upper class women, who had never washed a dish or made themselves a cup of tea were thrust on to the front to drive the wounded from trains to the tents which sufficed as hospitals.
The gruesome sights and sounds of the wounded are well described, as is the labor the young women had to perform t clean out and scrub the ambulances (inside and out) scrubbing blood, guts and much more.
