https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2515166.Russia_in_the_Shadows
Every Communist orator has been trained to contemn "Utopianism"..."This is a remarkable "historical" work, as it started with some positive expectations regarding the revolution-Russia and progressed through disappointment as Wells traveled across a nation beset by destruction and “ruin”.
But then, by 1920, he received an “official” invitation; he had positive expectations regarding meeting his friend Gorky; also, about a possible talk with Lenin.
"Marx died in London nearly 40 years ago, the propaganda of his views has been going on for over half a century"(...) I avoided his works..."As for Lenin, Wells met him in Moscow.
(A well-shaved Wells, but moustache)Pity on the socialist Well...s.
See LR ilmunud raamatuke räägib härra kirjaniku tähelepanekutest Venemaal eelmise sajandi uue maailmakorra loomise tuhinas ja seda siis mitme reisi jooksul (1905-1934) ning sellest, mida ta nägi oma reiside jooksul. Soovitan lugeda eriti neil, kes peavad Marxi ideid paljutõotavateks (kirjanik ise leidis enesel soovi Marxi habe maha ajada ja seda ajal, mil Marx juba aastaid surnud oli ning Venemaal oli palju naiivseid, aga see-eest tulihingelisi marksiste). Tekkis ka selline mõte - kas me ise suudame märgata uue korra tekkimist ajal, mil see juba tekib? Selles mõttes väga põnev lugemine ehk ajastu kirjeldus, mis kirja pandud vägagi vahetult.
H.G. Wells visited Russia (Petrograd and Moscow) in the fall of 1920, a tremendously bleak time, and his overall impressions, delivered in six installments, were interesting--especially if you know the players-- and measured, but, as he says himself, he was not a particularly curious man. His sense of the Bolshevik Government is I think apt, and his take on Marx's beard is hilarious.
Очень взвешенный взгляд на события, последовавшие за Революцией 1917 года. Даже как-то не ожидал -- особенно учитывая тот факт, что это писалось в 1920м году.
Interesting, but repetitive* and not the most insightful thing ever written about Russia in 1920s (definitely not the least insightful either). Discovering Moura Budberg/Maria Zakrevskaya - thanks to the afterword by David Vseviov - has made reading it more than worthwhile for me, though. A Russian/British double agent who used to live in Estonia, loved both Gorsky and Wells AND "could drink in amazing quantities, mostly gin"? I rest my case.*Probably inevitable, as this is a collection of articles.
Герберт Уелс приїжджає в радянську росію.
Гуляє по Петрограду, відвідує Москву і спілкується з леніним.
Основні його висновки: росія в руїнах, російська імперія рухнула через війну і некерований грабіж царем свого населення, більшовики - єдині, хто можуть у такій ситуації керувати країною, крєстьянє - тупі егоїсти (дослівно), сидять на своїй землі і не спроможні дивитись вперед, вони взагалі гальмують весь процес, і якщо крєстьнє призведуть росію до хаосу, вніманіє!
Європа не матиме доступ до багатих ресурсів росії і тому сама потрапить у халепу.
Єдині, хто можуть хоч якось врятувати ситуацію, - сполучені штати америки.
Такі справи.
І це зовсвм не фантастичний роман Уелса.
Not on of Wells' most know books.
In fact it seems to be pretty rare, and there appears to have been only one printing in the UK and one in the US.
My book doesn't contain a printing year, but it must have been published in either 1920 or 1921.
It's a fairly short book, 153 pages and 8 pages with photos.It is about a visit H.G. Wells made to Russia in 1920, more exactly to St. Petersburg and Moscow.
The purpose of this trip is to get an impression of Russia after the Bolshevik had taken over.For a longer review by me, go to http://kriswager.blogspot.com/2007/02...
Read hereOpening: In January 1914 I visited Petersburg and Moscow for a couple of weeks.
