https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/72579.Alias_Grace
”All the same, Murderess is a strong word to have attached to you. It has a smell to it, that word---musky and oppressive, like dead flowers in a vase. Sometimes at night I whisper it over to myself: Murderess, Murderess. It rustles, like a taffeta skirt across the floor.” Sketches made of Grace Marks and James McDermott during their sensationalized trial.Grace Marks, at the age of 16 in 1843, was arrested along with James McDermott for the murders of their employer, Thomas Kinnear, and his mist
This story really picked up several years later when Doctor Simon Jordan decided to make a study of her and hoped to unlock some of her missing memories.
What if Archer had escaped with Countess Olenska?I still pine for him to escape.So even though the landlady was forbidden, bruised fruit, he couldn’t help, but notice that...“Her lips are full, but fragile, like a rose on the verge of collapse.”This was one of the many times when I had to read a Margaret Atwood line many times, rolled it around the surface of my tongue, so that I could taste the sweet, the bitter, and the savory of that beautifully written line.
He applies it to her throat like a brand.”This novel is based on the true story of Grace Marks.
This story keeps you hooked from beginning to end, following Grace Marks in her troubled life.
This is how Atwood describes the story outline in her Author’s Afterword, which I recommend everyone to read in full: About Grace is a work of fiction, although it is based on reality.
Its central figure, Grace Marks, was one of the most notorious Canadian women of the 1840s, having been convicted of murder at the age of sixteen.
The Kinnear-Montgomery murders took place on July 23, 1843, and were extensively reported not only in Canadian newspapers but in those of the United States and Britain.
Working with patches. Patchwork. Putting together various pieces of material that already existed and joining them into a new design.This is the theme that Margaret Atwood has developed through her novel, and I am not making this up for the sake of my review. Her concluding paragraphs, spoken by her heroine, are about the patched Tree of Paradise. The Tree itself is of triangles, in two colours, dark for the leaves and a lighter colour for the fruits; I am using purple for the leaves and red for
Putting together various pieces of material that already existed and joining them into a new design.This is the theme that Margaret Atwood has developed through her novel, and I am not making this up for the sake of my review.
Some add colour and veracity, for she includes fragments from newspapers – for as this became a famous case, a plethora of texts narrated this event before Atwood did – as well as extracts from the written confessions by Marks herself, or from letters written by real life figures such as the Medical Superintendent of the Asylum where Marks was interned, or from the Diary of the Warden of the Penitentiary where Marks spent the early part of her sentence.
When a young psychiatrist decides to dive into the darkest part of Grace’s mind, everything will change.This is a novel that I consider perfect on every level.
Anger because of the double-standards of the time, the conviction that a woman is guilty by definition when accused, the habit of regarding women as objects for the men’s pleasure, ripe for the taking...And if we come to think of it, these notions are still alive today, in our so-called advanced era when many believe that gender equality is all done and dealt with and achieved.
How do we establish "truth" in the tangle of myths, passions, prejudices and conventions?As always, we solve the mystery of a story by telling another, and Margaret Atwwod seemed to define my journey as a reader long before I knew what I was reading myself:"When you are in the middle of a story it isn't a story at all, but only a confusion; a dark roaring, a blindness, a wreckage of shattered glass and splintered wood; like a house in a whirlwind, or else a boat crushed by the icebergs or swept over the rapids, and all aboard powerless to stop it.
I felt about Alias Grace the same way I did about probably half of Atwood's novels I've read so far - I just didn't fully get it.
Nobody conveys Life ain't easy for a woman message as well as Atwood.
Atwood finds a way to explore plenty of issues from a feminist standpoint here - poverty, servitude, sexual repression, violence, insanity - and does is marvelously.What didn't work for me was Grace's story itself.
Was Grace a cunning murderess?
Atwood doesn't give any answers in her fictionalized version either.
If Grace was in fact the evil murderess, why did she desire to kill her master?
Writing a fictionalized account of a historical person is itself an indictment of history, but Atwood takes it so much farther, and in much more wonderfully 'political' ways.
But Atwood has a wonderful way of infusing humor into even the bleakest of moments, so there were just as many times when I found myself laughing aloud.
This book will not leave you for a long time.
She also gives insight into the historical treatment of mental disorders and the development of what we know think of as psychiatry, which I found very fascinating.Apart from the interesting and important topics it discusses, Alias Grace also tells such a well crafted story and it managed to keep me completely engrossed while reading.
It remains an ambiguous read until the end and it’s very much the kind of book that only gives you answers if you want them, while also offering some kind of resolution and closure, and I really appreciated that.I'd highly recommend Alias Grace and it's definitely the kind of book that will stick with me for a while!
Before I start extolling it madly, let me quickly state what those two “minor infractions” are: Grace’s first-person accounts are not completely authentic-sounding; they are far too articulate and intelligent—symbols become too clearly presented to the reader (who should feel slightly MORE confused, as psyches are often deep chasms) as the author’s own signature is made overly-clear in Grace’s own declarations (Atwood adds on her character’s openly-questionable credibility pretty early on, to her credit).
Those symbols of femininity (the red peonies, the patchwork quilt, the washing and scrap-booking) have never been placed in such intense context before—I was genuinely enthralled, impressed like a rabid Atwood fanboy.
He finds it increasingly difficult to reconcile the gentle, self-controlled woman he sees every day with the murderess who has been convicted.The novel follows the story of Grace's life, as she relates it to Doctor Jordan.
Or is it being addressed to the reader?Other parts are written from Doctor Jordan's point of view, although Atwood uses the third person in these passages, whereas for Grace, it is always "I".
Most of the detail is of events prior to the murders, and some date from a long time earlier, but we do find out what happens to both Grace and Doctor Jordan after the long consultations.
“The true character of the historical Grace Marks remains an enigma.”“I have of course fictionalized historical events (as did many commentators on this case who claimed to be writing history). I have not changed any known facts, although the written accounts are so contradictory that few facts emerge as unequivocally ‘known.’” So says celebrated author, Margaret Atwood, about Grace Marks of whom she wrote this fictional account. And indeed Grace remains an enigma throughout the novel. As other
“The true character of the historical Grace Marks remains an enigma.”“I have of course fictionalized historical events (as did many commentators on this case who claimed to be writing history).
So says celebrated author, Margaret Atwood, about Grace Marks of whom she wrote this fictional account.
When you are telling it, to yourself or to someone else.""He must mean that he has come to test me, although he’s too late for that, as God has done a great deal of testing of me already, and you would think he would be tired of it by now.""I have noticed there is nothing like a death to get your foot in the door.""It says there were two different trees, the Tree of Life and the Tree of Knowledge; but I believe there was only the one, and that the Fruit of Life and the Fruit of Good and Evil were the same.
¡Primera lectura de Atwood y primer acierto! :)Alias Grace es una historia sórdida y cruel, muy bien documentada y que resulta apasionante aún en el relato de los sucesos más sencillos... hay dos cosas que me han sorprendido especialmente, el toque sobrenatural y la ambigüedad del relato y los personajes. Obviamente, seguiré con Margaret Atwood :)
Or this gap in the story may indicate simply something someone does not wish to tell us - the very heart of the matter, the thing of shame, the motive.
Psychologically powerful avoidance fuelled by intense guilt makes a hair-raising narrative, as the reader, writer and protagonist gradually converge together and find themselves in the belly of the beast - two memorable examples from non-fiction are Fritz Stangl's horrible wrestling with his past as commandant of Treblinka in Gitta Sereney's series of interviews with him ("Into that Darkness") and Michaud & Aynesbury's interviews with Ted Bundy ("Conversations with a Killer").
Both were found guilty; James McDermott was condemned to death and Grace Marks was sentenced to life imprisonment in the Provincial Penitentiary in Kingston, Canada.In the novel, Grace’s story is revealed to Dr. Simon Jordan, a fictional, progressive, young doctor who is trained in the study of mental illnesses.
“I was seeing it all for the first time, although I also knew I had been there before, as is the way in dreams… And I longed to be there, although in the dream I was there already; but I had a great yearning towards this house, for it was my real home.”I grew to admire Grace throughout this book.
Returning my audible version of this because the narrator’s voice is grating on me. Hoping to pick this up in physical or kindle edition soon.
In framing the story around her interviews with a young doctor interested in making his name by proving her innocence, Atwood is able to avoid committing herself on the degree of Grace's guilt and complicity while exploring a range of wider social issues.
The doctor's troubled relationship with his deserted landlady is interwoven around the main story - many of the essential dilemmas are the same as those Grace faced.
(hide spoiler)].I was struck several times by parallels with His Bloody Project, which explores similar territory between social history, fiction and criminal psychology.
Nothing says crazy like playing dress-up in corpse clothes.In the true tradition of all the best murder mysteries, there were a lot of question marks over whodunnit or to be more precise, who exactly did what to who and when.
The trial was well documented and although McDermott was hanged for his crime, Grace escaped the noose and went on to live alternately in a penitentiary and a lunatic asylum depending on her state of mind at any given time.Atwood subtly adapts this tale of murder most horrid by giving a voice to Grace Marks and allowing her to tell her story.
Another excellent novel from the pen of Margaret Atwood – this is her masterly, fictionalised retelling of the life of Grace Marks and the part that she allegedly may or may not have played in the murders of Thomas Kinnear and Nancy Montgomery.The story takes place in the early to mid-19th Century and is written for the most part around Grace Marks supposed retelling of her life story to the fictional Dr Simon Jordan – events unfolds to the reader as they are told to Dr Jordan.
Most of the story comes in from two perspectives, Grace Marks herself telling her story to a young MD/psychologist working to see if he can get her released from prison, and then from the young physician himself listening to her story, never sure he can truly trust her, yet physically drawn to her, in the meantime having his own weird personal life that mirrors some of the things Grace herself has gone through.The author's writing is so beautiful, so perfect for the era (mid 1800's) full of metaphors of the colors red, blue and white, the icy burial of Grace's mother at sea.
What matters is that her spirit was never broken and she made it through extreme conditions with the help of some great people and she did it with Grace.
Virtuöz AtwoodBir kez daha şunu anladım ki Atwood, yazım dili, zekası, karakterlerinin iç dünyasını aktarımı, olayları çok katmanlılığı şekilde bölebilme yeteneği, sizi karakterin beynine yönlendirebilmesi ve kendi zekasını yazdığı her diyalog içinde kararlı şekilde devam ettirebilmesi..vs açısından günümüzdeki en etkili kadın yazarlarından birisi.
Nam-ı Diğer Grace'de bunların hepsinin bir anda olması okur açısından müthiş lezzetli bir okuma deneyimi yaşatıyor.
Nam-ı Diğer Grace'de benzer bir durum söz konusu.
Kitap çok inanılmaz hızlı hareket ederken ortalarına doğru kitlenip sonra tekrardan muazzam bir açılma ile sonlandı.
Sonuç Atwood, okura empati duygusunu inanılmaz şekilde düşündüren bir yazar.
Ciddi bir şekilde objektif olarak suçlu, katil, delilik ( aynı zamanda modernist manada normallik ve anormallik) ve masum kavramlarını tartışan çok başarılı bir kitap.
Atwood's story has two perspectives: Grace Marks and Simon Jordan, a doctor who's interviewing her and basically trying to get her to remember the day of the murders.
The hypnosis scene revealed that Mary was possessing Grace, but then everyone was like, "But that's not possible, there's a psychological explanation" but they never gave one.
All the elements of a good ghost story are here: the peddlar who reads palms, divination with an apple peel, people making strange, random prophesies (like Grace's mother saying she wouldn't survive the voyage, and Mary telling Grace she'd cross water three times before getting married), and the bizarre possession.
Audiobook performed by Sarah Gadon and an afterword by Margaret Atwood 15h 57m.
I definitely enjoyed this more than Handmaid's Tale.
The tale of Irish servant Grace Marks is not one that I had ever heard about.
It isn't one that we find lingering in our history books,but Atwood makes her come alive on the page.
It was this going back and forth coupled with Sarah Gadon's narration that has kept me spellbound this week.
If you haven't yet read an Atwood novel, I think this is the book for any new reader.
Whether she was guilty or innocent has never been proven and Grace herself remained reluctant to redeem or condemn herself, continuing to claim a lapse in memory until her eventual death.This fictional account follows Grace's story some years after the chilling ordeal.
I appreciated how Atwood provided autonomy to the silenced, historical female and allowed her a space in which to voice her own story.The intrigue continued far beyond the reaches of the page, as Grace's fictional story terminates as mysteriously as her real-world duplicate's.
And so, Grace Marks continues to haunt and to capture the imagination.
As a result Alias Grace is not just a biography of Grace Marks but more poignantly a record of women's lives in mid-nineteenth century Ontario.It's a harsh read, full of tragedy and hardship, of misogyny, of ignorance, violence, hypocrisy.Grace, whilst incarcerated, spends periods of time in the mental hospital associated with the prison - and we never find out whether there was a need for her to be there or whether she sought a reprieve from prison conditions.
However, Grace's lawyer was able to get her sentence commuted to life imprisonment by arguing her youth, her gender, and, according to him, her feeble-mindedness.The story opens when Grace has been in Kingston Penitentiary for 15 years.
This is a period of reform in Canada and a group of clergy and others hire Dr Simon Jordan, a young American psychiatrist, to establish her innocence as Grace claims to have no memory of the actual murders.
Atwood never establishes the guilt or innocence of Grace.
Instead, she leaves it up to the reader to decide whether Grace is the innocent she seems to portray herself or the murdering temptress others have named her.
Jane Eyre meets Runa. Eine mysteriöse historische Figur namens grace Marks wird hier in einer fiktiven Geschichte aufgearbeitet unter Berücksichtigung der widersprüchlichen Umstände zu ihrer Beteiligung an einem Doppelmord ihrer Arbeitgeber. Die einzigen Kritikpunkte die ich habe sind, das es etwas zu lang war, da in der Mitte etwas zügiger hätte erzählt werden können und Schlussfolgerungen aus ihren Erzählungen und so, wie sie sich Dinge erklärt, zu einfach strukturiert sind für ihre würdevolle, intelligente und ungebrochene Art. Auch nach Beendigung des Buches bin ich nicht schlauer, aber es hat mir gefallen❤️
It won't surprise anyone to know that women got the short end of the stick in the 1840's, but Atwood takes a subtle path to discuss the inequality issues: Grace is aware that the deck has been stacked against her all her life because she is poor (and a girl), and she is determined to make the best of it, but through her eyes, we see what happens to other women who dare to "misbehave".
Una historia que trata sobre la culpabilidad, la memoria (¿puede alguien sentirse culpable por lo que no recuerda?), las diferencias sociales, el sistema penitenciario (por llamarlo de alguna manera), los conocimientos sobre enfermedades mentales y la posición de la mujer en el siglo XIX.Es como si Margaret Atwood hubiera partido de "El cuento de la criada" (la narración subjetiva de una mujer prisionera sin posibilidad de salir) y hubiera profundizado para contarnos los pormenores de una sociedad, la Canadá de mitades/finales del siglo XIX.
The two open questions were: 1) was the 15 year-old servant Gracie Marks the paramour of McDermott; and 2) was Grace involved in the murder?Oh, people wanted to believe the worst.
We see Atwood here at her most brilliant, channeling the voice of Grace Marks, and thereby telling the story, but also placing it in time and place.
I noted that Grace, in the re-telling, begins to call McDermott 'James' around the time of the killings.
And, of course, Grace was involved in the murders.
You, like me, will have to read the book for that.As Grace tells her story, she quilts.
Even though the verdict is in and the suspect is in prison, the jury is still much out, and as the pages turn the reader becomes more and more captured by the interplay of Grace's account, which shows her naivete and lack of education, yet reveals an intelligence and cleverness, and Simon's correspondence, research and tries to find the answer to the question which begins to haunt him: who is Grace Marks?Margaret Atwood is without a doubt one of the finest prose stylist, and her unique skill of weaving multiple layers of the story, combined with a vast research of the period she's writing about and relaying them in a rich and lyrical language true to time, place and character is incredible.
