https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7763.The_Joy_Luck_Club
Suyuan started this game and Joy Luck Club when she first immigrated to the United States as a way to maintain her Chinese culture in a new country.
Yet, June Mei and her friends from the group, Waverly, Rose, and Lena, for the most part were interested in achieving the American dream, often times at the expense of their mothers who worked hard to preserve their Chinese cultural existence.
Tan has encouraged an entire generation of Chinese American writers who we can enjoy today, and now there are a plethora of cultural groups writing about their immigrant experience.
The JLC is all about the relationships between Chinese moms and their daughters.
There always seems to be plenty of surprises when you travel to the other side of the world, regardless of the prep work.Was this useful for Chinese studies?
A good deal of the book takes place in the U.S. There are many old world/home land stories and Tan does an excellent job including and describing Chinese customs and traditions.
After all, most everyone has a parent-child relationship to relate to.
I may not be a woman or Chinese, but that hardly matters, as nothing was lost in Tan's translation of the mother-child bond.
I also declared that I would name my two kids after the aforementioned abandoned children: Spring Flower and Spring Rain.My mom laughed in my face about the latter, saying no self-respecting Chinese would give their kids such pedestrian names, and would be mock-pissed about the former.The truth is that The Joy Luck Club got some things right and got a lot of other things dramatic.
In both academic and literary circles, Tan has been maligned for her seeming misandry and racial self-loathing, raked across the coals for her largely negative portrayal of Asian/Asian-American men and for marrying off all her Asian-American female characters to white men.
As Asian-American literature scholar Erin Ninh states in her academic text Ingratitude, The Joy Luck Club conveniently ignores "America's systemic racial and economic discrimination...
Because, damn it, Amy Tan was a pioneer, a groundbreaker.
It thrilled me that someone was finally writing down the difficult truths of Asian-American mother-daughter relationships, exposing the hidden realities of my private life to the public eye.
Waverly Jong's tragic story of chess-playing and mother-daughter psychological warfare: how could anyone not find it unforgettable?
Each part is preceded by a parable relating to the game.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز سی و یکم ماه آگوست سال 1996 میلادیعنوان: محفل شادمانی؛ نویسنده: امی تان (تن)؛ مترجم: مریم بیات؛ تهران، نشر البرز، 1373؛ در شانزده و 383 ص؛ موضوع: داستان چینی های امریکایی ؛ مادران و دختران از نویسندگان امریکایی سده 20 معنوان اصلی کتاب: «باشگاه جوی لاک»، است، در ایران با عنوان: «محفل شادمانی»، با ترجمه ی بانو: «مریم بیات»، در نشر البرز، لباس نشر بر تن پوشیده است.
این داستان، توسط بانو: «امی تان (تن)»، در سال 1989 میلادی، نوشته شده است.
Ok, I admit it, I was obsessed with Amy Tan my first year of college.
I learned all there was about her, read The Joy Luck Club, and finally I gave up hope.As a freshmen, at Linfield College, I was astonished that Amy Tan could have possibly walked the same hallowed halls of Melrose, perhaps sat in the same offices in the English department, or read a book in Northrup's astro-turf room.
I learned that she never graduated from Linfield, which pretty much means nothing...but I did discover that she (possibly) met her husband there, Mr. Lou DeMattei.
So reading The Joy Luck Club by Amy Tan was quite the vicarious experience - though I am not Chinese nor a daughter, I could connect to several of the themes that ran throughout the novel.The interweaving vignettes that comprise the book are too intricate to explain completely without writing a long review, but the book is basically about four Chinese women who immigrate to San Francisco.
Indeed, Tan's deceptively simple writing style is realistic and piercing and poignant all at once.The theme that struck me the most while reading the novel was the inter-generational loss that afflicted the characters.
. .What I liked:- I really enjoyed seeing story lines and character relationships come together in the last third of the book.- The peek into Chinese culture was interesting and new to me.- I like the idea of mother-daughter relationships represented.What I didn't like:- I don't enjoy waiting until the last third of a book to be interested.
But by the end of the book, I was still flipping back to the dang chart to figure out who was who, and still felt like I had no idea who the characters were, personality-wise.
5 estrellas y porque no puedo ponerle 5000.
الكاتبة آمي تان أمريكية من أصل صيني تكتب عن الاختلاف بين الثقافات وبين الأجيالعن الهجرة وصعوبات التكيف مع المجتمعات الجديدةومشكلة الهوية واختلاف الأفكار والمعتقدات بالنسبة للجيل الثاني من الأبناءالعلاقة بين أربع أمهات وبناتهم, أربع نساء من الصين هاجروا إلى أمريكاتحكي كل أم عن حياتها وعن المعتقدات الصينية والعادات والتقاليد المقيدة للمرأة وتحكي البنات عن الحيرة ما بين الانتماء للأصل وبين النشأة وطريقة الحياة الأمريكيةحكايات ممتعة بأسلوب جميل, وخاصةً أحاديث الأمهات وما يملكنه من قوة وذكاء في التعامل
It is a novel about four Chinese mothers who came to America during World War II, and their four Chinese/American daughters.
They scoff at their mothers for acting too Chinese.All eight characters, four mothers, four daughters, have a narrative in the story.
Mothers may be harder on their daughters than on their sons because they have already made the mistakes, and they know the pitfalls that await their daughters.What was most enjoyable for me in the novel was the stories of the mothers, their past lives in China, from little girrls to adulthood, before they came to America.
It's the story of their struggles with their own mothers, and how the impact of culture, traditions, and World War II shaped their lives.
As a first generation child in this country (my parents immigrated from Vietnam), I could really relate to the girls in the story.
Throughout my life/education, it was always the books about white people but I never experienced reading about my culture until I read Joy Luck Club.
I think Amy Tan is fabulous at painting the picture of everything involved in the Asian-Asian American immigrant-first generation experience: differences in culture, assimilating to the new country, passing down the old traditions, the rollercoaster of emotions all family members go through in a different way.
I have read Joy Luck Club many times.
The novel explores the cultural divide between the two generations of women and explores how national identity influences people's lives.The daughters are all, to some degree, frustrated by their mothers' inability to shake off their anachronistic Chinese superstitious behavior (as their daughters think of it) and seeming reluctance to embrace the culture of their new home.
This was my first Amy Tan novel but I will definitely be reading more of her work in future.P.S.
and there are a lot of different voices in this book.
I gave The Joy Luck Club two stars, but that ranking is based solely on my personal enjoyment of the novel.
I love dark and violent American literature.
I love speculative fiction.
I love Aubrey/Maturin.
I love Shakespeare.
I love the Lost Generation.
What I know of China comes from indoctrinated Cold War disdain, my Marxist world view, martial arts movies, a few trips to Epcot center, my love for Asian cuisine, M*A*S*H*, bad television documentaries, and the contradictions that adhere to that bizarre list (oops!
So I recognize that I see The Joy Luck Club though a massive filter.
However, Tan is not about to aid the cause of USian supremacy and White saviourism by setting stories like this against a mythical American equality; her depictions of marriages and relationships in the US reveal a different but hardly better situation for women, especially Chinese/immigrant women for whom White husbands feel entitled to speak.My favourite mother-as-girl story is Lindo Jong's.
Miscommunication, misunderstanding, is inevitable in the meeting of USian directness and the more subtle, artful Chinese manner of expression, heedful of hidden feelings deduced through the fine filaments of perceptive empathy only a combination of shared culture, affinity and thoughtfulness can forge.
I did pick up how much more painful it was for a Chinese mother to love a Chinese daughter in China in the past.(view spoiler)[ In the book and in real life Chinese mothers had to learn for themselves and teach their Chinese daughters in turn to 'eat their pain' from the lack of fulfillment or autonomy in Chinese cultural mores for females, even to the point of stopping up natural love and affection by showing only harsh cruelty and cold dislike towards their daughters, which was often necessary for the personal survival of both mother and daughter.
Though this book didn't quite live up to my expectations, I'm glad I read it.I think the main problem was that the book felt like it needed to be longer.
There were eight central characters, four mothers and their four daughters, and with the chapters being somewhat short and the book being under 300 pages, there was not a lot of time for Tan to completely develop her characters.
In fact, several of them merged into one uber-tragic-Chinese-female character in my brain, especially the mothers.
They're not quite American and not quite Chinese.
Tan captured the tension and misunderstandings between the mothers and daughters well.
It kind of says something when I want to bounce ideas about the book I'm reading off my husband, and all I can think to say is, "meh, it's fine." (He's gotten quite used to having me talk about books he hasn't had a chance to read yet, and tends to have amazing insights anyway.
And if he doesn't, I at least get to formulate my ideas out loud, which is always how I think best, and he listens patiently.) Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
Her daughter, Jing-Mei "June" Woo is invited to join the game, which her mother named the Joy Luck Club.
Jing-Mei's journey of discovery weaves in and out of the story of the other three women and their daughters, An-Mei and Rose, Lindo and Waverly, Ying-Ying and Lena.
She sheds her American name, June, and becomes Jing-Mei at the beginning of the book when she is first invited to take her mother's place in the Joy Luck Club.
When Jing-Mei's father tells her what her Chinese name means, she finally grasps her mother's history and legacy."The Joy Luck Club" is a beautifully written book, but it's more than that.
The Joy Luck Club is:...to hold parties and pretend each week had become the new year.
A game where the winner takes all, and the loser takes leftovers.
All connected by the Joy Luck Club.
The Joy Luck Club is a beautifully written poignant tale of Chinese women trying to fit in in America.
It's highly inspirational, and I think everyone, even non-Chinese could use a little Feng Sui in their lives, in the form of The Joy Luck Club.
The Joy Luck Club is a tale to be devoured and enjoyed by mothers and daughters.
Así es como se cura una herida: empieza a cerrarse sobre sí misma, a proteger lo que duele tanto y, una vez cerrada, ya no ves qué hay debajo, eso que provocaba el dolor.
It is nearly impossible to tell all of the mothers and all of the daughters and their respective love interests apart.
All of the mothers have the nearly the same issues as do all of the daughters.
It would be a better book of the story were not repeated so many times that it loses it's color.
This book also has nearly the exact same plot as "The Bonesetter's Daughter".
I just feel like the theme of the Chinese immigrant mother having difficulty connecting with their Chinese-American daughters who in turn have problems connecting with their mothers and with their Caucasian love interests was endlessly repeated.
This book had really good writing and interesting characters. I went into this thinking it was one big story and I was disappointed to find it was not. It was a bunch of short stories that interconnected sort of like Olive Kitteridge. I think I would have been more emotionally invested in it had it been one story where the characters could really grow into themselves. With that said, I am excited to try some of Tan's other books.
Amy Tan’s extraordinary 1989 novel explores the divide between Chinese immigrants to the US and their children, first generation Americans being raised in San Francisco. Over games of mah jong and close-knit conversations, The Joy Luck Club delves into the backstories of four mothers and their four daughters. Their lives, especially their childhoods, are vastly different and yet interconnected in numerous ways that Tan recounts with equal parts anger and empathy.— Book of the MonthRead more at https://www.bookofthemonth.com/add-ex...
What is was like to grow up and it's wonderful to appreciate the different perspectives and strong stories that are portrayed.I really wanted to love this book, it just felt choppy.
I felt that the stories pulled the story apart, so it read more like a book of short stories (not a fan!) and I had a hard time reminding myself who went with whom.
It was difficult to remember that these stories tied together, as most of them felt like they could've been stand alone stories of hardship.
The Joy Luck Club is a tremendously well written book filled with passion, emotion, and love that arises from family interactions.
This book is written in the form of eight vignettes, four from four different women (the mothers) and four from their daughters.
Also, all the different narratives show the relationship between that of a mother and a daughter of the rest of the Joy Luck Club members.
With these narratives unfold personal emotions and feelings that they have withheld from one another and gives all readers a inside depth understanding of the mindset of a parent and a child and sees the position of thought in both.
This is a beautifully written novel that describes the lives of four Chinese mothers, who left China for America, and their Chinese-American daughters.
The stories of the mothers' lives in China are sensitively and delicately combined with the perceptions of the daughters, making the novel eloquently poignant tale.
The author captures the complexities of the relationships between the mothers and daughters extremely well.
It was fascinating to read about the history of the Chinese mothers', and how their experiences affected their relationships with her American-born daughters, who couldn't really begin to understand what their mothers went through before leaving China for a better life.

Review will be posted soon..Rating - The Joy Luck Club by Amy Tan, 4 Sweets and the rich culture and beliefs of Chinese-American family. (A fast paced book and it was divided into short stories and lives of the characters. Recommended to everyone to those people who have no time to read. Simple and creative, a mixed Chinese-American culture book.)Challenges:Book #3 for 2011Book #3 for Off The Shelf!Shelfari - Flips Flipping Pages, February 2011 Discussion
I am third generation born Chinese. I am so glad I found this book. Most of my life I always can see eye to eye with my mom. She is second generation born Chinese who already helping her family since age 12. This book, explore all of those cultural aspect of mother and daughter that is born in different generation. how a daughter years her mother approval. But yet the mother seems aloof. I can relate to that.
