https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/133738.The_Mirror
This is perhaps my favorite book of all time.
While working for an eye doctor in Boulder, Colorado, I met the author who was a patient of ours.
When I learned that she was a published author, I started searching used book stores for some of her works and came across a first edition paperback of this book.
Perhaps it is because I knew the author on a more personal level than just a casual meeting at a book signing.
Or maybe it is because the book features two of my favorite themes (early American history and time travel).
4.5 StarsTHE unsightly antique MIRROR is evil and often deadly, and within its reflection, Marlys Mi
The Mirror by Marlys Millhiser tells the strange but original tale of four generations of woman from 1900 to 1978-79 and how their lives are interwoven and complicated by the machinations of an evil mirror.
Millhiser makes it a very good story by her excellent character development and especially as the swaps affect other characters in the sometimes-confusing narrative, creating a timeline that grips the reader into following a life lived by another and from another time.
Though she provided a fitting ending, I felt that Millhiser chose an odd turn for what had been a more one-dimensional character.
That's sounds quite insane I know, but that is what happened to Shay Garrett in this book.
She wakes up in the year 1900, in her grandmother Brandy McCabe's body.This book cured me of any romantic notion about time-travel.
Either you know too much that is going to happen or you are totally lost in the future.
But the ending with Brandy in Shay's body was just not as good.
I mean I felt for her, but personally, I found it was far more interesting to read about someone getting used to life in the past than life in the future.
This is probably one of the best books to me that I've read. I loved it. Time travel done the best ever. History and love but not overly mushy.
The book is definitely different, but unique enough to stand on its own.
I finished this book in one day and while I give it 5 stars and stand behind it, I feel as if the ending could have been better.
Shay Garrett leaves 1978 and wakens in the body of her grandmother Brandy McCabe in the year 1900.
Brandy in turn is transported into the body of her granddaughter Shay.Shay is forced to live her grandmothers life at the turn of the century knowing what is to come and thus being labeled crazy and a witch.
"The Mirror was Mrs. Millhiser's most famous book, one that was so popular with readers that it was one of the most frequently stolen books at public libraries.
Several readers have even commented that they named their children after characters in the book." ~~~~~I read THE MIRROR, a time travel piece of historical fiction, years ago.
Rachael Garrett, Shay's mother, was trying to pull everything together.
Her stories were written long before Diane Gabaldon's time travel series.
If you want a story that will blow your mind, try THE MIRROR.
It's not, quite, but this book has a bit of the feel of one of those 'gothic' romances that were popular in the 1970's.It's a time-travelling saga of how a cursed mirror twists the lives of the women of one family.
At first, she is obsessed with finding a chance to return to her own life, but as time crawls on, she gradually learns to adjust to life in an earlier period.A good part of the way through the book, we switch perspectives and find out what happened to the grandmother, Brandy.
I throughly enjoyed this book.
I enjoyed the way it was broken in to sections to see things from a different characters point of view.I was, however, throughly disappointed by the end of the book.
About half way through the last section it began to read like the author ran out of steam.
She could have done so much more in this section and even had the details to do but opted to keep it boring.
The last section of the book is the only reason I am not giving this book 4 stars.
It did not live up to the first 3/4s of the book.
This is a solid 3, which means nothing earth shattering but I read it through with a great deal of enjoyment, and even *gasp* some thought!
And I don't know about you, but I've always been suspicious about mirrors, especially when I was a kid - there's definitely a Twilight Zone mystique about them.
This book is a great spin on that childhood magic, where The Mirror does indeed do very weird things, and has malevolent intent.
Plus, we also get into time travel, which I always like if well done.
Here we have 2 characters, grandmother and granddaughter switch places.
WEIRDNESS.Yep, I like this book.
Shay had to use the little knowledge she had of her family (her parents had her a little late in life, and she hadn't known some of the characters she then encounters as Brandy) in order to piece everything together—and it wasn't always easy, for instance when she realised the guy she had to marry wasn't her grandfather, thus wondering what it'd lead to, and how/if history would right itself.Another point raised here: Shay's control over her family's life.
Too bad, as the novel explores parents/children relationships as well as time travel.Another thing I regretted not reading more about: the mirror itself.
Split between 1978 and1900, a mysterious mirror handed down from generation to generation causes a grandmother and granddaughter to switch bodies and adjust to different time periods.
The bulk of the book concentrates on granddaughter, Shay, living in her grandmother's time.
This was my favorite section of the book because it spans years as Shay remains in her grandmother's body throughout marriage and babies (imagine marrying your grandfather and raising your parent and their siblings).
The last section brings us up to speed on how grandmother, Brandy deals with being a 20 year-old unwed mother.
This is a remarkable book, one that I had never heard of until a few weeks ago.
The plot of the story revolves around a mysterious antique mirror and two young women about to be married.
A granddaughter and her grandmother, separated by 75 years, both looking into the strange mirror just prior to their weddings, and then the impossible happens; they switch places, slipping into the others bodies.
Well, that's the remarkable part.
Marlys Millhiser weaves a story that is so amazing and unbelievable, so frightening and disturbing that it is hard to stop reading.
It's the most entertaining book I have read this year.
Will be re-reading this one soon for NetGalley.I have good memories of it, which is why I requested it for review.I wonder if my opinion of it will change after 33 years?I'll let you know...
Shay's part of the story is quite interesting, with vivid descriptions of life in turn-of-the-century Boulder, Co. I had a hard time getting past the "ick" factor of someone essentially having sex with their own grandfather and giving birth to their own mother and uncles.
Now that Shay has been acting "crazy" - because she is really Brandy, trapped in Shay's body and having trouble making sense of the situation and the modern world - when her parents find out about the pregnancy, they decide to have her committed and forced to have an abortion.
At this point, the story moves chronologically from past to present through the generations who were connected to the mirror in the same "Gingerbread House".
Imagine suddenly finding yourself (a girl from 1978) in an arranged marriage and carried off into the Colorado hills to live in a tiny cabin with no electricity or running water.
Or imagine being a girl from the turn of the century and suddenly finding yourself wearing bluejeans and drinking a margarita at a disco with people making out all around you.
I absolutely love this book!
I re-read it about once a month.
I pulled the book down and read the summary and was instantly hooked.
I checked it out and by the time I reached chapter 20 I was on amazon ordering a copy for myself.
THAT'S how good this book is because I never do that.Another perk of the book for me was that its dealt with history and time travel, both massive interests of mine.
It's a fast read, each time I read it, I can finish half the book in a few hours.
Remembered and was describing the plot of this odd supernatural thriller from 1978 to my daughter while discussing the new Studio Ghibli movie about Marnie.
This was the first time travel book I read as a young woman. It touched me in such a strong way. To see that a life could be lived that belonged to your own grandmother was just amazing to me. I always wanted to live in the time period of my grandmother, so I could see how uncomfortably strangely fascinating that would be. I need to read this again to remember the excellency of it all. I do remember the feelings it evoked, if not every word that was written.
This is my favorite time travel book from over 50 plus years of compulsive reading.
And time travel in any genre is in my top three of preference scenarios.
Along with immigrant stories and travelogue.Perhaps this one actually combines all three?Everytime I floss my teeth I think of this book.So many books written today that are classified historical fiction are, even when excellent, in some or most part of detail or thought patterns, revisionist to a 21st century value or agenda.
One of the few books I have actually owned was "used up".I rejoice to see that it was published again in 1997.
OMG! I just finished this book again for the third time. I always remember that Shay and her Grandmother look into a mirror at the same time the night before their wedding days. Shay 1978 Brandy 1900. They switch bodies and live out each other's lives and have little episode where they can see what each is doing at random times, but I ALWAYS forget the wonderful story details. I'm glad I own this book. I would recommend it for everyone. I just love it.
One of my all-time favorite books that I first read as young woman. The story of a young woman who on the eve of her wedding views herself in an old antique mirror and suddenly finds herself in the body of her grandmother. A hard to put down read as it captures your imagination and sometimes boggles your mind. A must read for those who love the unusual.
This is a book I remember reading when I was a young girl. I loved the book then and just recently wanted to get it for my children to read. It's one you can't put down, I'm not much for fantasy books but this one was a wonderful one. I think everyone needs to read this, I know I'm going to go out and get it tomorrow......
This is a time-travel romance that I read as a teenager that I re-read every chance I get. The story revolves around the granddaughter switching places with her grandmother on the eve on her wedding...
I really loved this book. Whoopie-twang! Recommended by both my mother and Alison Thurman. I can't recommend this book enough!
I didn't want to put this book down. A beautifully written story spanning generations of a family. All of the characters were so clearly developed and likeable.
I enjoyed this book. It had an interesting time-travel story line, and it was fun to read it from the perspective of each of the two women that were impacted by the time swap. The author did a great job of making it seem believable and I could really feel how the characters felt in their new strange environments. This was a fun read.
Not my complete review yet:The first book in a long while that I could not put down until I'd finished (and put off as many necessities as possible in order to keep going with the book). Excellent! One of the best time travel stories because the times as described and characters as developed were so authentic. Nothing pretentious or overly sentimental. No "agenda ," but just a great story. Perfectly paced.
The flow was further interrupted for me by the way Millhiser felt she had to constantly remind us that it was Shay in Brandy's body or vice versa.
It would have been ok to do this at the beginning, but she stuck with it all the way through (which almost felt insulting), writing things like, "Shay bit Brandy's lip," or "Shay brought Brandy to her feet..." There were many gaps in the sad plot that needed to be fleshed out or explained.
My book club agreed the Shay as Brandy part was more fun to read; then it felt like the author got tired and gave up.
Suddenly Brandy McCabe finds herself trapped in the pregnant body of her granddaughter Shay Garret and Shay finds herself, likewise, trapped in the body of her grandmother, desperately trying to follow the course of a family history in which she knows most of the possible outcomes.I definitely preferred the section of the book that focused on Shay's travel back in time to the life of her grandmother Brandy.
This is really a touching and beautiful book.
