https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51784.The_Autobiography_of_Bertrand_Russell
The Autobiography of Bertrand Russell, Bertrand Russell The Autobiography of Bertrand Russell (1967–1969) is a three-volume work by Bertrand Russell.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز چهارم ماه آوریل سال 1976 میلادیعنوان: شرح حال برتراند راسل بقلم خودش؛ نویسنده: برتراند راسل؛ مترجم: مسعود انصاری؛ تهران، انتشارات فروغی، جلد نخست دز سال 1346، در 394 ص؛ موضوع: شرح حال برتراند راسل بقلم خودش - سده 20 معنوان: شرح حال برتراند راسل بقلم خودش؛ نویسنده: برتراند راسل؛ مترجم: احمد بیرشک؛ تهران، انتشارات خوارزمی، 1377، در 1162 ص؛ فهرست کتاب: زندگی نامه؛ آثار؛ دموکراسی اجتماعی؛ فلسفه لایبنیس؛ اصول ریاضیات؛ مقدمه ای بر فلسفه ریاضی، و...؛برتراند آرتور ویلیام راسل، سومین «ارل راسل»: فیلسوف، منطق‌دان، ریاضی‌دان، مورخ، جامعه شناس و فعال صلح‌ طلب بریتانیایی؛ و یکی از پیشتازان فلاسفه در سده بیستم میلادی، و پیشگام در تحلیل منطقی و مدافع سرسخت تجربه‌ گرایی بودند.
The most memorable sentence is definitely "I went out bicycling one afternoon and, suddenly, as I was riding along a country road, I realized that I no longer loved Alys".
He immediately went home and told her about his unexpected discovery.I can't imagine anyone writing this who wasn't a mathematician.
As Tom Stoppard comments in The Real Thing: "He's cycling along, and what happens?
I was given this book as a present, when I was 19 years old, by a fairly well-known mathematician.
It had been quite a serious thing for both of us.
I'm surprised I didn't think about this until now.
However, in 2002 something called fortune has dictated to change my conviction when I came across this oldish, brownish paperback at the UQ flea market one morning and I decided to buy it (AUD 7.50) and then wondered if I could read it till the end.Since then I read some of his books, for instance, 'Conquest of Happiness,' 'In Praise if Idleness,' 'Fact and Fiction' (unfinished) etc.
I kept wondering why he still kept doing so in such a great old age, therefore, when I read his biography his fame has since commanded my awe-inspiring admiration and respect as one of the great scholars whom I can keep reading and applying his wisdom in my life.
Από τις σημαντικότερες μορφές του προηγούμενου αιώνα, ο Russell απέδειξε περίτρανα πως ο πνευματικός άνθρωπος μπορεί να είναι ταυτόχρονα και ενεργός πολίτης, "μετέχων και ουχί απράγμων".
Ο μακρύς του βίος, αλλά και πνευματική του παρακαταθήκη με τη μορφή πολύτομου και εξαιρετικά ποικιλόμορφου έργου, μόνο δέος μπορούν να προκαλέσουν.
Αντ' αυτού, το πολυσέλιδο αυτό κείμενο κινείται μάλλον με τη μορφή ελαφρού… κυματισμού, παρά πλημμυρίδας, όπως ήταν η ζωή του ανδρός.
Θα έλεγε κάποιος πως ο μαθηματικός κατίσχυσε του φιλοσόφου και η καταγραφή των σημαντικότερων στιγμών του βίου του γίνεται περισσότερο αποστασιοποιημένα από ό,τι ίσως ανέμενα.
In this sense, we can contrast to the former works the works of philosophers such as Aristotle or Heidegger who shy away from using the first person and deal with subject matters not only strictly of interest to the writer, but which seek to gain popular understanding.
In a sense, then, the autobiography provides the reader with comforting answers as to why anybody would wish to live such an amazing life.
In this sense, it is perhaps Russell's most self-reflective work of philosophy.
Indeed, Russell's Autobiography is an entertaining and personally illuminating approach to one of the most fundamental philosophical questions of how one's life is to be lead.
"How like his father!: she said, turning to my Aunt Maude.") Russell slyly boasts about his sexcapades, apologizes for criticizing his first wife ("my self-righteousness at the time seems to me in retrospect to be repulsive") before sharing at length with the reader the "substantial grounds for my criticisms." There are wonderful encounters with Santayana (who wanted to get his underwear from his Paris apartment before the Boche destroyed the city, and with it the Parisians and a ms Santayana had been working on for 10 years ("I care more for my underwear"), of Joseph Conrad, the man whom BR most admired and thought resembled him (hah!), DH Lawrence (BH gives a vivid picture of what it was like to be the object of DHL's sudden crazes), Whitehead, Ottoline Morrell, TS Eliot (he hints at an affaire between himself and Vivienne), Wittgenstein, and many others.
Reading this book one can't help but feel that education is everything and that as much as you put in the eduction of a boy, it will come back to you.
People in Russell's days were well-educated.
I love how he talked about his aunts and grandmother and the kind of books they liked to read.
These women were by no means baby machines but they are the reason we have a genius like Russell and his kind today.
such autobiographies are really inspirational and I can read them over and over again.
to be most likely to produce the greatest happiness, considering both the intensity of the happiness and the number of people made happy." In The Autobiography of Bertrand Russell, volume I, Conscience, he argued, was too dependent upon education, a product a evolution and education, and therefore "it is an absurdity to follow that rather than reason." The inherited part "can only be principles leading to the preservation of the species" and the education part of conscience is derived from the same imparted wisdom that "made Bloody Mary burn the Protestants." Russell was good friends with Alfred Whitehead who was a teacher and mentor to him, although in later years to parted on aspects of their philosophies.
I read this book because I wanted to find the impetus behind the passions of such a relentless activist for Peace and Logic.
Russell is one of my favorite philosophers.
And this books fairly describes the values he held dear, and the events that effected his intellectual development.
I find it hard to write about him.
He is very raw and open about himself, just the way he is about everything else.
the chapters about his early life are most charming and very engrossing.
This is a fine book for anyone interested in the philosophy of Russell or in him as person.
The first two volumes are the best, very good reading.The third volume is quite a bit dryer, and doesn't have the personal details that make the other volumes so interesting. Still, I recommend the whole thing very highly.
russell's prologue is exquisite, near perfect. a remarkable man."three passions, simple but overwhelmingly strong, have governed my life: the longing for love, the search for knowledge, and unbearable pity for the suffering of mankind...."
"Three passions, simple but overwhelmingly strong, have governed my life: the longing for love, the search for knowledge, and unbearable pity for the suffering of mankind.
I have sought love, first, because it brings ecstasy - ecstasy so great that I would often have sacrificed all the rest of life for a few hours of this joy.
This is what I sought, and though it might seem too good for human life, this is what--at last--I have found.With equal passion I have sought knowledge.
Love and knowledge, so far as they were possible, led upward toward the heavens.
"O problema do mundo é que os estúpidos estão super confiantes e os inteligentes estão cheios de dúvidas".(Bertrand Russell)
In Lord Russell's case, it just may have helped.Apart from stating the obvious, that Bertrand Russell needs or should need little introduction, it is as well to say that his long life was spent, as far as it was public, in defending or promoting causes.
He either had to condemn war openly and publicly, or condemn man privately, which meant taking his own life, something he says he thought about very seriously and decided against.
He was a stubborn man and his stubbornness allowed him to hang on for much longer than most people would have bothered.
This is one of the great autobiographies of all time, for its clarity and candor, for its amazing scope, for its cast of interesting characters.
Russell was driven by logic.
He could see the illogic, the absurdities, in the way the world operated.
His refusal to compromise with those absurdities made him conspicuous, made him a great man.
He believed that human suffering could best be relieved by putting the world on a logical, a rational, basis.
But the world did not understand, still does not understand.
Like most people ahead of their time, he was punished for his efforts.
Following each section in this book are some of the correspondence from the time period.
I found the letters to be the most challenging part of the book.
On one hand, I understand that they are an important component.
And some of the letters truly illuminated what had been described by Russell earlier in the text.
I especially enjoyed the letters to Russell from his grandmother and aunt.
On the other hand, some of them weren't interesting to me at all.
But then I read the final section, and I had to change my mind.
Russell's depiction of his friendship with Joseph Conrad was beautiful and fascinating.
در زمینه ی زندگینامه کتاب واقعا لذت بخشی برای خواندن است. این کتاب از طرف نشر خوارزمی با ترجمه ای روان در حدود 1163 صفحه، توسط چهره ی ماندگار ریاضیات کشور،استاد بیرشک، ترجمه شده است.در این کتاب برتراند راسل با صداقتی خاص به ذکر جزییات احوال زندگی خود میپردازد
All three volumes fascinating reading though I think first was best. I can't begin to follow his mathematical philosophy but you don't have to to enjoy the autobiog, which does not go into the latter. This man's role in stopping atmospheric testing puts him in my pantheon.
Great thinker and it really captures a very different time in society.
With such increasing sense of loneliness and of despair of ever meeting anyone with whom he could talk, Russell was rescued by nature and books and later math from complete despondency.
Prologue - what i have lived for 　　 　　Three passions, simple but overwhelmingly strong, have governed my life: the longing for love, the search for knowledge, and unbearable pity for the suffering of mankind.
I have sought love, first, because it brings ecstasy - ecstasy so great that I would often have sacrificed all the rest of life for a few hours of this joy.
But now all this has shrunk to be no more than my reflection in the windows of the soul through which I look out upon the night of nothingness.
No dungeon was ever constructed so dark and narrow as that in which the shadow physics of our time imprisons us, for every prisoner has believed that outside his walls a free world existed; but now the prison has become the whole universe.
There is no splendour, no vastness, anywhere; only triviality for a moment, and then nothing.Why live in such a world?
These things I believe, and the world, for all its horrors, has left me unshaken.
In fact, it’s safe to say that Bertrand Russell’s autobiography consists mostly of letters he both wrote and received.
So it’s not that Bertrand Russell’s written autobiography is a boring book, it’s that he has supplemented the different eras of his life with tedious letters.In addition, it’s interesting to notice what Russell has chosen to extrapolate on and talk about in depth, as there is very little here about his brother and grandmother’s deaths and his relationships after his first wife Alys: in short, anyone with whom he has had a strong personal relationship.

He lectured in a number of universities and was awarded the Nobel Prize of Literature in 1950.
Among his acquaintances were Joseph Conrad, Albert Einstein, H.G. Wells, Kurt Gödel and Aldous Huxley.
He writes about himself as a lonely child and adolescent, and how he went through a number of failed marriages as an adult.
His autobiography is full of sad memories from his youth that, I think, would not interest anybody except himself.
I enjoyed reading his political observations as well as the letters he exchanged with Joseph Conrad and his other acquaintances.
He lived a very full, courageous life (in addition to being a famous philosopher and mathematician, he was also known for being a conscientious objector during WWI), but somehow he managed to take even the most exciting events and make them seem bland and boring to the reader.
He described his passionate romances and free love lifestyle in the most dry and distant way, as though he were a historian describing someone else's life who lived hundreds of years ago.
He also had trouble filtering out the truly important from the trivial; he would sometimes give a day-by-day recounting of his life, even for days where nothing much happened.
Over hundreds of pages, that just got too tedious for me.
When I read Bertrand Russell, I was an emotional atheist and found his works like Why am I not a Christian to be a very compelling read, but as the years have passed and my atheism has waned into agnostic-seeking-defense-of-a-justified belief in God, I found the book wanting me to summon the spirit of Bertrand Russell and ask him questions as to what he actually believes.
I thought the correspondence was unnecessary at times and would have rather had took a narrative approach.I feel that a lot of beyond smart people argue against god because they are so smart that they cannot believe in a supernatural being.
"Our great democracies still tend to think that a stupid man is more likely to be honest than a clever man." — Bertrand Russell"Men fear thought as they fear nothing else on earth -- more than ruin -- more even than death....
Thought is great and swift and free, the light of the world, and the chief glory of man." — Bertrand RussellHow long does it take to dig a hole?...
don't think though, just vote this Fall...
and if you do think, Be Sure to vote this Fall.--- not a Bertrand Russell quote, but mine
I first found solace in Russell at the tender age of sixteen back in 1992.
I was swayed by his atheism for a good six years after which I converted to a form of mystic christianity.
This leaves one wondering who they were and what was their significance for Russell.
Also he seems to have become increasingly glib and externally focused as the years went by.
Perhaps his fear of madness lead him to find refuge in external causes and politics.
That said a wonderful read who would have been a secular saint had libido not ravaged his life so dreadfully.
"Three passions, simple but overwhelmingly strong, have governed my life: the longing for love, the search for knowledge, and unbearable pity for the suffering of mankind...
Love and knowledge, so far as they were possible, led upward toward the heavens.
But always pity brought me back to earth.
Children in famine, victims tortured by oppressors, helpless old people a burden to their sons, and the whole world of loneliness, poverty, and pain make a mockery of what human life should be.
I long to alleviate this evil, but I cannot, and I too suffer.
This has been my life.
Your own life, naturally, is a paper life, as you say, a life in which experience comes through books, not directly.
For this disease, more books are not the remedy.
Only real life is the remedy - but that is hard to get.
Real life means a life in some kind of intimate relation to other human beings — Hodder's life of passion has no reality at all.
Or again, real life means the experience in one's own person of the emotions which make the material of religion and poetry.
