https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24820339-non-fiction
Organized into journalistic sketches, Palahniuk describes such things as:out in the open pornography wheat field combine demolition derbiesthe art of American castle building (there is a castle near where I live that hosts a Renaissance festival every year)fun with anabolic steroidsthe secret, hidden sex life of submarinersthe politics of solitudemodern philosophy of Marilyn Mansonthe applied, visionary genius of Ira Levin and many more.
All the sketches are good and frequently Palahniuk hits a chord and becomes very good.
Like a lot of his works, 'Stranger Than Fiction' is no different in this department.
The rest of this collection of non-fiction shorts offers some incredible insight to Palahniuk's considerably different, sometimes slightly demented, world.
The book is divided into three sections: People Together, Portraits, and Personal.
I think the people who will mine the most profit out of 'Stranger Than Fiction' are writers themselves.
If you're at all a fan of Chuck Palahniuk, 'Stranger Than Fiction' makes a great companion to whatever collection of his books you already possess.

You will like this book if you are easily amazed by the things your fellow humans do for fun or to make a living, or to survive or to fend off loneliness and despair' if you are not surprised but what we do to light the flickering light of "I am special".
You will like this book if you prefer understatement and no-sentimentality in presentation of the harsh and the painful and the noble, and if you prefer examples of the profane in the presentation of the mysterious and even the mystical.
If you like to sense the writer's hard lived experience in what you read, you will like this book.
I liked this book.This is a collection of true stories of very bizarre things that have occurred or occur regularly.
They are all as the old adage goes: So strange they could only be true.In the intro to this book Chuck Palahniuk even admits that he is something of a one trick pony.
He views everything in America as the following struggle: We strive to be alone.
Long story short: Chuck Palahniuk's writing style is best applied to nonfiction.I read this book because I was staying for a week on the Oregon coast with my family.
I wanted to like this way more than I did, as I love stories about the things and the people who occupy the margins of society.
It was so sad and yet so poignant, to think of all of the people out there hoping they can peddle their story into something bigger, some recognition or some money, perhaps.
He took it beyond that, and talked about the way writers mine the world around them for material, to the point where sometimes they get so wrapped up in thinking about how they will turn this thing or that person into fodder for their latest story that they lose the ability to take life on its own terms.
I really loved this essay.
In the spirit of this years motto, to boldly go where my inclinations have never led me to browse,I applied myself to finishing this collection of essays.I had liked the introduction very much but got bogged down immediately in alien territory and put it aside.Although he is better known as a novelist, I reasoned that if I was going to read only one thing by him, this might be the book to give me some kind of perspective on Palahniuks work.I determinined to finish with it already.I started agin with the introduction.If I had been anticipating a barrage of chauvanistic observations this prejudice was quickly laid to rest in the opening essay.
Another Palahniuk...what can I say?He's one odd character, but he has no shame and swallows his pride.These stories are all true...and very interesting.I'm not a big fan of non-fiction, but I did enjoy this one.4 stars
Pirmoji knygos dalis - įvairių visuomenės pakraščių dokumentavimas - Palahniukas rašo apie kombainų rodeo JAV provincijoje, apie imtynes, apie steroidų vartotojus,apie pitchingą - bandymą parduoti savo idėją ar rankraštį kino industrijai, apie Rock Creek Lodge Testocle Festival ir t.t. ir pan.
Išsiskiria pokalbis su Marilynu Mansonu (dar viena 90s ir šio amžiaus pradžios ikonų).Trečiojoje dalyje autorius rašo apie save - kaip jam gyvenosi po "Fight Club" sėkmės.
bet kažkaip be entuziazmo ir net ironija tokia rūgtelėjusi: "mes visi suprantam, kad ta šlovė maloni, bet hey aš toks pats lūzeris, koks ir buvau, jei ir pasikeičiau tai nedaug, dabar parašysiu jums reportažą, kaip iš tikrųjų niekam nerūpiu ir kokių juokingų nelaimių man nutiko.
Ensayo (en realidad no, o no solamente, pero hay que clasificarlo en el blog en alguna categoría).Lo que nos cuenta.
El libro Error humano (publicación original: Stranger Than Fiction, 2004) recopila una serie de crónicas, extrañas semblanzas, artículos y ensayos muy personales escritos por el autor antes de y durante sus comienzos como escritor (escritor famoso, quiero decir), que nos permitirán conocer, entre otros, épocas de abuso de esteroides con fines cosméticos y sensuales, a la actriz Juliette Lewis, castillos en construcción en los USA, un campeonato de lucha entre máquinas cosechadoras, el submarino USS-Louisiana, a Marilyn Manson, eventos en los que se dan siete minutos a escritores para que vendan su obra, la muerte de su propio padre y cómo le afectó (iremos ahí más de una vez), la obra de Ira Levin, la lucha libre amateur estadounidense o el Festival del Testículo de Rock Creek Lodge, por citar unos ejemplos.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
I've tried reading pretty much all of his novels and 'Fight Club' is the only one I've been able to finish, and that's because I'd seen the movie and pretty much knew what was going to happen.
But at the same time I would like to one day be able to read his stuff, let myself experience all the emotions, memories, and associations his writing churns up for me AND be detached enough to just finish the &$^*!!
So I was pretty stoked to see this collection of his non-fiction writing on the library shelf.
Which I guess is what fiction writing is all about.
Terminé «Error Humano», de Chuck Palahniuk.
Su nombre los describe lo suficiente.Todos son relatos cortitos que cuentan historias tan interesantes como extrañas.
Desde un festival de sexo donde todos garchan porque sí hasta su paso por Los Angeles durante la época de «El club de la pelea».Tiene una franqueza y simpleza que nos hace sentir identificados.
Todo con una crudeza espectacular.Desconozco el resto de sus libros, pero «Error Humano» se destaca por la diferente forma de mirar la realidad que lo rodea, de interpretar.
Lo mejor es que los protagonistas son personas raras.
Como Palahniuk, como todos.[Reseña escrita originalmente para Twitter]
Kitap, Palahniuk'un bir dizi yazısının bir araya getirilmiş hali. Bu nedenle yazılar arasında bağlantı zayıf doğal olarak.
Error humano o, como es su título original, Mas extraño que la ficción, fue el primer libro de Palahniuk que leí.
Error humano escarba por lugares que nos remiten a El club de la pelea, y de hecho es esa perspectiva bizarra, de antro, por la que se inclina el autor, teniendo tantas opciones, que comprendemos el tipo de mundo que lo rodea.Si bien en algunas cosas no concuerdo o hubo relatos que me parecieron aburridos, creo que cada lector que le de una oportunidad, puede descubrir algunas cosas que no sabía que existían o ponerse a reflexionar sobre otras.
Other stories really grip the imagination - the combine demolition derby for instance, or the men who build castles out of chicken wire and plaster (or huge lumps of stone).There's a melancholy tone to all of them - even the recounting of how the author dressed as a dalmation with a friend of his and ran around Seattle, just to see the reaction he'd get (very nearly getting arrested just for being dressed as a dog).Random thoughts spring up everywhere.
But the Combine Harvester Demolition Derby - that'll stay in my head for quite a long time to come.
I recommend this to anyone who likes good writing and smart writing and funny writing and isn't a sensitive reader topic/description wise.Chuck Palahniuk is a genius.
My love.
Oh life!") and picking out the good parts of a story.
I love his voice.
I love that he made me laugh out loud.
I loved how real his "portraits" of others felt.
He talks to you like a normal person, not super loaded and elegant syntax-wise or with diction that's just there to prove you know every four-syllable word in the dictionary.

Some of the essays were so interesting and others made my eyes glaze over in boredom.
There is one rather funny one where Palahniuk flew to Los Angeles to meet with movie executives for Fight Club.
It was pretty funny, but most of the essays are serious.
I listened to this on audio and there were two narrators, the author and a professional narrator.
If you ever see an audio book by Palahniuk narrated by the author, pick up a paper or ebook copy instead.
This is still one of the ones he writes actual sentences and thinks.
I truly enjoyed reading about things that I knew to be actual facts, never mind how much I've heard urban legends about fem fight clubs or people choking on food at restaurants for money, I know the stuff Manson said is true coz I've read his book years back.There is a certain kind of honesty in Stranger than Fiction that I feel Palahniuk lost at some point.
His need to make up things and spiderweb worlds overlaps his ability to tell it how it is.
In Stranger than Fiction he still tells it.
Stranger than Fiction es una lectura obligada para todo fan de Palahniuk, aunque no lleve el mismo estilo narrativo que el resto de sus historias. Es una respuesta a muchos por qués que uno se plantea cuando lee sus novelas: sobre su estilo, los temas que aborda, e incluso sobre su propia vida. Los primeros capítulos y algunos retratos son un poco pesados; otros, y sobre todo en "Personal", están buenos.Me parece genial que, escribiendo historias reales pero inverosímiles, cuestione esa crítica tan común que lo tilda de 'visceral', si la misma realidad nos sobrepasa.
So it started out all right, but really crashed and burned in my opinion, maybe because I lost patience. This is a collection of stories, some interesting and indeed, almost stranger than fiction, others average. It is at its best when relating other people's stories, worst when it Palahniuk recording his own musings, which to me seemed as if he's trying too hard, and personal stories, which are not generally strange but seem more the experiences of a person who doesn't want to be well-adjusted, even when he's verging on it.
Error Humano es un libro de relatos, en su mayoría, de tipos que están bastante pillados de la cabeza.Son muchas historias cortas las que componen el libro, de modo que me resulta difícil hacer una valoración general.Con algunas me he muerto de la risa (Casi California me ha matado), otras me han cabreado (como Querido Señor Levin)... y alguna me la he saltado porque lo que hagan los paletos sureños con sus cosechadoras me interesa más bien poco.
This might be a bit of a cheat but I'm going to consider this one done and finished even though I didn't read the entire book.
I'm pretty sure it's the first time I've ever done so.
In these experiences, he illustrates people's lives and their pretty crazy actions.
So why then, if I was gaining some insight into my life, would I not want to continue?
Before I lost this book, I already knew that it was going to be some time before I finished the book.
Time enough to start and finish several other books between chapters.
This might be a bit of a cheat but I'm going to consider this one done and finished even though I didn't read the entire book.
I'm pretty sure it's the first time I've ever done so.
In these experiences, he illustrates people's lives and their pretty crazy actions.
So why then, if I was gaining some insight into my life, would I not want to continue?
Before I lost this book, I already knew that it was going to be some time before I finished the book.
Time enough to start and finish several other books between chapters.
El primer libro de historias/ensayos de Palahniuk que leo, el que más se ha asemejado es Fantasmas porque son un compilado de historias.
Las historias son bastante variadas, pero tienen 3 grandes apartados.
Personas "famosas" e historias personales de Palahniuk.Todas las historias nos ayudan a comprenden un poco más la mente, motivación y libros de Palahniuk.Aunque no me gustaron todas, y la parte de retratos fue la más difícil, hay unas muy rescatables.
La de gente reunida me recordó a sus historias de fantasmas.Tristes, desgarradoras, brutalmente honestas.
Más narcotizacion menos transgresión.Un libro que probablemente debí haber leído antes de él.
Vista la qualità degli ultimi libri, non vorrei che l'autore - o il suo agente - volesse far uscire un libro all'anno solo per pagare le spese della propria sussistenza.
Vista la qualità letteraria di questo e del precedente [Cavie] verrebbe da pensare che è cosi' che vanno le cose.
Quello sui castelli americani, ad esempio, racconta fatti che mi hanno incuriosito: sono andato sul web a cercare - su Google Earth - il castello citato.
Poi mi rimarrà a lungo la curiosità di come scrive Amy Hempel, visto che non si trovano traduzioni italiane...
E anche dove diavolo è quel castello che ho tanto cercato sul web...
Son una serie de relatos e historias que abordan la vida de Chuck.
Una primera parte que cuenta historias alrededor de la vida norteamericana, desde las peleas de máquinas que recogen el maíz, pasando por la vida de un camarero hasta quienes construyen castillos sólo por la loca idea de hacerlo.
Para luego adentrarnos en una veta más íntima, de racionamientos en torno a escribir, saber contar las historias de tus amigos y hacerlas parecer ficción.
Es una lectura entretenida para quienes queremos adentrarnos en la vida de un escritor que a estas alturas ya es de culto.
"About the third week, the priapism subsided or seemed to spread to my entire body. Weightlifting gets better than sex. A workout becomes an orgy. You're having orgasms, cramping, hot, rushing orgasms in your delts, your quads, your lats, and traps. You forget about that lazy old penis. Who needs it. In a way, it's a peace, an escape from sex. A vacation from libido. You might see a hot woman and think grrrrrr, but your next egg white omelet or set of squats is a lot more attractive." This is t
Weightlifting gets better than sex.
You're having orgasms, cramping, hot, rushing orgasms in your delts, your quads, your lats, and traps.
In a way, it's a peace, an escape from sex.
You might see a hot woman and think grrrrrr, but your next egg white omelet or set of squats is a lot more attractive."
Obviously, some are way better than others but these all were unique enough to stand out from each other.
Palahniuk is one of those authors that doesn't pull any punches when it comes to writing from personal experiences.
If you aren't sold with the title or author, I'll say this....
turns out palahniuk’s nonfiction is just as pretentious as his fiction
105 - 2017
