https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22929741-the-argonauts
How can an experience so profoundly strange and wild and transformative also symbolize or enact the ultimate conformity?somewhere, an unbuilt bridge weeps.fortunately, the book isn’t all hifalutin’ contemplation; the best parts (for me) revolve around nelson's relationship with harry, her pronoun-slippery spouse, who is her perfect partner, both sexually: Why did it take me so long to find someone with whom my perversities were not only compatible, but perfectly matched?
Over and over again I got the message: You don't have to live your life the way everyone else does if you don't want to.
Here is a book that feels no need to dumb it down for anyone, that asks for your attention and gets it, and I became addicted to that feeling of thinking about only what Maggie Nelson was saying and not the million other things that tend to crowd my mind.
Maggie Nelson and I have next to nothing in common on the surface, but I can think of no book that has better reminded me of where my own heart lies.
I have been at times a little bratty in my attitudes towards those who chose to parent, so work that is critical of that attitude and helps demystify parenting feels invaluable to me.That said, I really didn't care for Nelson's...
I guess it feels as if Nelson in this work was grasping at a way of writing that cuts to some authentic and fleeting affect -- but too often it feels like she's gliding over the surface of things, trying to keep up a momentum, trying not to lose something.
The rest is optional.’’My first experience with Nelson’s writing was the beautiful Bluets, one of the finest memoirs I’ve ever read.
Whereas Bluets focuses on the melancholy of Love, here she writes primarily about gender identity and fluidity, sexuality and motherhood.
I loved reading about her teaching experience and interactions with the young (and not so bright) minds.I will be honest with you, as always, and tell you that there were quite a few moments when I felt uncomfortable reading her confessions and vivid (for lack of a stronger word) descriptions of certain issues that I consider too personal to be shared.
My full review, as well as my other thoughts on reading, can be found on my blog.Mixing memoir and cultural history, Nelson uproots conventional notions of genre and form in The Argonauts, supplanting them with her radical interest in creating art without a center.
Nelson touches upon the ethics of feminist art; the difficulty of sustaining queer relationships, without having models to follow; the intricacies of childrearing; the shortcomings and strengths of critical theory, past and present; and so much more.
While The Argonauts can feel aimless at times, Nelson's insights on (queer) motherhood are astute, and following her intellectual somersaults makes for a stimulating reading experience.
Too too precious.I'm supposed to either love or respect this book because of the intellectually elastic writing interwoven with high-end educated philosophical musings with a lot of quotes and passages from famous Intellectuals and writers pasted in here and there; and because of the author Maggie Nelson, who is a respected poet and critic; and because its disjointed narrative pieces and paragraphs of subject matter are artistically wobbled about and around in a post-modern literary style, which amounts to stray thoughts, philosophy, autobiography and TMI medical shi* pasted in willy-nilly, perhaps artistically.A subject is dropped for awhile for a digression, which is examined briefly before the author returns to what she had been thinking about or doing, or not.
I definitely preferred those passages where Nelson allows herself to string her fragments into more extended autobiographical meditations, like the brilliant final 20 pages interspersing her memories of giving birth to her son Iggy with an account of the deathbed vigil her partner (artist Harry Dodge) held for his mother; it had me breathless and in tears, on a plane of all places.I like to think of myself as a pretty tolerant person, but as I observed myself groping around to figure out who Harry is – wait, this is actually a woman, right?
this book cracked me open like a walnut.
Is it a kind of liberation to call my family "queer" or does it put us in a box that conforms to what others suppose it means?
Does it mean something different if I call us a queer family in private, vs.
Rather, it is the shared, crushing understanding of what it means to live in a patriarchy." If all Nelson did was remind me of the flimsy trickiness of words, of their power to obscure as much as they enlighten, then this would be a tremendous book.
Nelson spends a lot of time describing pregnancy and birth like any first time mother might.
But I would still recommend this book, as I think it's important and timely, and Nelson is a smart, exciting, and superb writer.
3.5 starsSerious props to Maggie Nelson for breaking free from the binaries that plague contemporary life.
My favorite part of The Argonauts centers on how Nelson describes love as an evolving process, one that we must renew and revitalize every single day.
In addition to discussing theory, she incorporates details from her own life, with a focus on her marriage to her fluidly gendered partner as well as her foray into motherhood.This book's structure disappointed me though.
Nelson includes no chapter or section breaks, so her ideas sprawl in a jumbled, confusing way.
In other words, we were aging.”This book explores Maggie Nelson's relationship with Harry Dodge, who is fluidly gendered.
This book questions the freedom to be who we want to be, the freedom to love who we want to love, our identity and sex.
Throughout this book Nelson adds references from various people, such as psychologists, and their views on gender, sex and love.I, however, found this a difficult one to read.
This book is also one continuous prose, without chapters, and while you would think it would flow well, it just didn't for me.
Holy fuck.
It is hard to explain what this book is but I will try - it is simultaneously an academic exploration of current (and seminal) works on gender, identity, love, dependence; written in a way where sources are listed by author names along the margins of the pages and the direct quotations are only indicated with italics (although sometimes she uses italics for other purposes.)Inside this academic exploration is Maggie Nelson's own story, of being with a person who is gender-fluid and doesn't fit into a box, of seeing her partner's body change through Testosterone and surgery while her own body is changing through childbirth.
To absolutely no one's surprise, Maggie Nelson has delivered yet another exceptional and essential book. It's a middle finger to identity politics, a desperate call to re-evaluate that which we understand as "radical," and an incredibly moving memoir about motherhood, navigating queerness, and partnership. Of course, it's also a million other things, too.
It's hard to come up with anything to say about this book that doesn't diminish it in some way. Suffice it to say, The Argonauts mimics its very subject, which is love, in its boundlessness. Also, I can't stop crying.
Her faculty page at CalArts — where she is a professor who lists her teaching interests as "poetics; non-fiction" — identifies these nine as "five books of nonfiction and four books of poetry." But one of the most appealing qualities of Nelson's body of work is how it consistently defies straightforward categorization, blending genres and approaches to find new forms of expression."The Argonauts" is a thrilling read for the way in which Nelson crafts an exceptional form uniquely suited to her exceptional content: the story of falling in love with the gender-fluid artist Harry (formerly "Harriet") Dodge, building a queer family and having a child through IVF.
- are all fascinating to me, and topics that I desperately wanted to read more about, particularly in the form of a memoir of Nelson's own life, pregnancy, and relationship with Harry Dodge.
However, her writing style was unlike anything I'd ever read in a memoir-style book, and it threw me a fair bit.Nelson intersperses the personal with a lot of theoretical passages, where she references various academics in the areas she covers and includes a great deal of their quotations.
And to be honest, I didn't pick up this book hoping for some theoretical criticism, I picked it up because I wanted to hear a true personal account on the subjects that fascinate me.
Reread. Essential.
I am not sure I can articulate how much I loved this short book.
A cross between a memoir and an extended essay, Maggie Nelson tackles themes of identity, gender, love, death, birth and more.
Nelson is engaging, funny and has a wonderfully poetic way with words.
I listened to the audiobook narrated by the author herself.
Normally I steer clear of author-narrated audiobooks but in this case it was perfect.
I loved Nelson's voice and I think the fact that she was reading her own work about her own life really added to the emotional impact.Highly recommended (although possibly not for the easily offended!)
I was also skeptical when this memoir quite literally opened with a paragraph about anal sex - I think I sighed and thought 'oh, this is going to be one of those books.' I feel like this is a category of book that both novels and memoirs can fall into: the ones that think sex is this shocking, scandalous thing, that want to prove to their reader how daring they are for graphically depicting such a 'taboo' subject, that mistake vulgarity for profundity and bravery, but which are written so awkwardly you just end up cringing.And I can see where for some readers, The Argonauts might end up being that kind of book.
It's a subject that doesn't particularly intrigue me to begin with, and I feel like I've been reading quite a few novels and memoirs lately that reflect on motherhood.
If you mix together one part theory, one part memoir, and a hearty dose of love story, you’ll end up with something like Maggie Nelson’s new book The Argonauts.
The mysteries of psychology pale in comparison, just as evolution strikes me as infinitely more spiritually profound than Genesis.”As I read The Argonauts, I couldn’t help but draw parallels to Jenny Offill’s Dept.
Though Offill’s work is fiction, both pieces shift big ideas into compact spaces and read like a collection of swirling thoughts.
Perfect for book groups looking for the challenge of digging deep, Maggie Nelson has penned a piece with endless opportunities for questioning and discussion.More at rivercityreading.com
Interesting memoir about love, motherhood and modern forms of families among other things. The writing style is crisp and fresh, though laden with various philosophers and theorists; that's where Maggie lost me. Her relationship with her partner and how it's was an intrusive peak into their life and home. The book felt very now and happening, modern and raw. I would recommend it to anyone who is interested in feminism, sexuality , psychology, and love.
But this book was so lacking in sympathy for anyone being merely conventional that it felt quite stale and (horrors) normative: whether tut-tutting Eve Sedgwick for having post-shower (as opposed to properly sodometrical) sex with her husband; or invoking the people who watch mainstream pornography, as opposed to the subtler kinds of anal eroticism the narrator prefers; or duly noting brand names at a Ramada Inn stayed at while her partner recovered from gender transitioning surgery, the better to note off one's special place in late capitalism.
This is the first book by Maggie Nelson I've read.
I appreciate Nelson's candor in discussing the ups and downs of their relationship, but at times it felt like a distraction, something to keep the reader reading.And somehow I'm not sure I understand the title, which is probably my own failure.
I know what the Argonauts are in classical literature, I know about Jason and the Argonauts, and the Argo.
I didn't find the book (or its subjects) so groundbreaking as other readers.
Goodreads' summary of Maggie Nelson's memoir/meditation The Argonauts seems about as good as anything I could come up with.
The book is a combination of theorizing about gender and the story of Nelson's love affair with artist Harry Dodge and her son with him.
Nelson is a smart, talented writer.
Her prose incites speculation and pushes both the mind and the emotional life of the reader to new levels.The first work that I read of Nelson was Bluets, a stunning series of meditations on love and life and sadness, each section like a prose poem.
I didn't find this to be the most accessible book right off the bat, but even so, it kept me coming back. I loved how it didn't read like a conventional book, but instead was like free-form writing, yet with a very clear structure and purpose. The prose was beautiful and raw, and though I couldn't relate to the topic of a queer partnership and what that entailed, Nelson's descriptions of pregnancy, childbirth, and parenting were all so vivid and visceral and honest. This book is an important work for feminists, for queers, and for mothers.
i am definitely going to need to read this again, maybe immediately.
I can confidently declare I learned of so many new (to me) theorists and their philosophies/-isms, that my brain has been filled to the brim.
There were times, probably because this was my first introduction/immersion to the majority of these theories, I found the theoretical to be excessive and abstract.
That being said, this is a deeply personal, brave and vulnerable memoir that examines the most fundamental natures of relationships, languages, and identities.
I was deeply moved and irrevocably changed for the better by this unique book, and this is one I will probably reread several more times over the course of my life.
Nelson is clearly brilliant. I give it five stars for that. But I have a deep, abiding dispassion for critical theory and all its jargon. If I was rating this book on that dislike alone, I give it three stars. Stubbornly, I read the whole thing. So I'll give it four stars for keeping me going until the end.
Fantastic first part of how we see gender and love, second part mostly concerned around motherhood and traditional vrs nontraditional family models went over my head... I guess I'm just not close enough to the topic or maybe it was a bit too personal for me to feel connection to it.
