https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/251955.The_Enchanted_Land

So, the plot: Due to her father's will, Morgan has to marry and move to the wild wild west for a year so she can receive her inheritance.
Morgan, who so far seemed quite smart, decides to make him an offer: a year of marriage in exchange for a large sum of money.
And of course, due to the misunderstandings Seth treats Morgan like crap.
But the worst, really worst part comes at the end when Seth decides that he has to take care of Morgan (and by take care I mean lecturing her and making all decisions for her) because she's weak and "[some women] needed someone to control their life"
Super boring, super simple language, and super repetitive plot.
As soon as things get boring/settle down, the chick gets kidnapped!
Everyone has to comment on how thin she is, how full her breasts are, how much better her hair looks when it's down, and how she cleans up nicely.
Everyone has to misunderstand everything anyone says, feel hurt by it, stew over it, and ruin everything for the duration of that mini-plot.
And there was next to no romance in it.
It was a very frustrating book, not worth the effort of reading, almost, and kind of not worth the buck-ninety-nine I paid for it.
I can't get through it. Absolutely nothing about either character's behavior makes any sense. It's astoundingly awful.
★☆☆☆☆ Ugh! Not my cuppa tea.
There were a lot of loose ends in this book, a lot of underutilized secondary characters, and a hero that was distinctly unlikable.
I wanted to enjoy this story enough to keep reading it despite my doubts, but I just couldn't get on board, even though I did read it to the end (dang complete-ist me)I gave it three stars because author: Jude Deveraux knows how to describe my beloved New Mexico so beautifully, and because the heroine is well written.
Morgan is a grown ass woman but simplified and sexualized as a "little girl." I was excited at first by her declarations of independence, stating no man will ever take away what she wants out of life.
But as soon as she meets Seth, an older dude who acts like a 13 year old, she goes into a swoon because he's big and manly.
The characters are in love not even halfway in, and to spice it all up, she gets kidnapped and witnesses the rape of another woman.
She LITERALLY goes about her business and life once the whole kidnapped thing is resolved.
Gee - verbal, emotional, *and* physical abuse, plus rape, sex trafficking, and racism to boot -- who wouldn't want all that in a romance novel.
Plus this whole story is basically built on the notion that "[The woman] needed someone to control her life" - GAH!
And apparently, men listen up now, how you do that is by staging a fake kidnapping of a woman who has already been kidnapped twice, gagging her, making her think she's going to be raped, and then stripping her naked so you can lecture her about what a mess she's made of her life and blame her for everything terrible that has happened between you.

Of course in each and every story, she must be beautiful and gorgeous.
It was not at all perfect and a shallow, unfeeling, numb, and cold reader -if he or she may still be called as such -is the only one capable of giving this story up in addition to seeing all the wonderful things only.
A true reader understands that for a novel to be as wonderful as this, the one and only important thing is to see love encourage the characters to stand once again and to heal and bind every flaws and wounds.

I just love Romance and Adventure and this book had a lot of it.what i loved about this book was that the H/H Meet right away. They became friends they tried resting temptation, and falling in love. Then they were torn apart by, obstacles like misunderstandings, kidnappings jelous high-temper hero as well as a stubborn heroine. And it all add up to a great love story
I have read almost all of Jude Deveraux's books and have thoroughly enjoyed all but this one and the Forever & Always group. This one I almost put down because it truly seemed as if a different author was writing at times. I had no idea this was her first book. It was just bizarre how Morgan kept experiencing the same tragedies and Seth was just a bumbling hot head. Not one I will re-read.
2.5. This was one of those "big misunderstanding" books. It irritated me because it kept the characters apart for two years. Also,there were so many things that I felt could have been left out. The book was about 50 pages too long.

Gritty book about the early days of settling New Mexico and the gold rush days in California.
I liked the way Morgan is so sensible until about half way through the book and then she starts to get uncertain of her path.
Seth is a difficult man, no doubt about that, but I would have preferred Morgan to stay her usual no-nonsense self.
I also would have liked certain parties to get their comeuppance, but we'll never know, I guess.
Some did, however, so the book was saved from being too harsh on the innocents and not harsh enough on the tormentors, as so many are.
Rounded up from 1.5 stars. These two fools deserved each other. Seriously, has no one heard of talking/ listening? Or is that only something REAL people do in a relationship? And how many times can one woman be kidnapped? So many characters were added to this novel for the sake of driving the plot. Half of them (and the entire sojourn to San Francisco) could have been omitted/ simplified (and please get rid of the rape/ pregnancy trope!). I'm quite glad that romance novels have evolved since the 1970s.
The book was ok . it was very plain and a little bit repetitive.. I think the ending could've been a lot better than it was .. *** spoiler *** Seth "kidnaps " her , so she could be herself again .. and leaves their son behind ... I just thought that was so strange ...
As Morgan and Seth finally reach their New Mexico home (about 30% through the book) I realize that Deveraux is probably going to start throwing curveballs into the story.
At the point the Morgan is sold into white slavery, the story is 50% done.
I know it sounds like I’m gripping and complaining, but I started out falling madly in love with Morgan and Seth.
When Seth finally realized that Morgan never betrayed him and that she wasn’t willing working as a prostitute (he was mistaken about that as well), he is determined to seek her forgiveness.
Sigh.I’m glad I finished this novel because I wanted to see how Deveraux wrapped up the story.
First book of Ms. Deveraux and her writing agrees with me.I like that the H/h meet right away, the first 125 pages or so were quite beautiful.
So throw in some misunderstandings, numerous of kidnapping, a jealous/high-temper hero and stubborn heroine and you got yourself an epic love story.
And I'm really glad that when the H/h reunited it didn't wrap up in a couple of pages, they (we) deserved so much more for all the trails they had overcome.
So here's the break down, first 100 pgs, H/h (first chapter H/h got married) fall in love, next 200 page, trial after trial after trial, last 100 pages, reuniting/sorting things out.
Morgan has been living with her aunt and uncle for the past two years since her mother died.
Her father (from whom she was estranged) passed away recently and if she does not marry before she is 25 her inheritance will go to her uncle.
Morgan just wants to live in peace at Trahern House, where she grew up.
Seth says yes and he collects her from her uncle's house and they marry that night.Morgan says she just wants to be friends with him but she falls in love.
I haven't read a book like this one in a long time!
They got together in an unconventional way but managed to find real love with each other.
Due to mistakes on their own parts and other peoples agendas and ulterior motives they kept being separated and reunited multiple times throughout the book and each time in a different way.
Seth was a strong, handsome, but jealous man who cause plenty of messes all by himself and I loved every second with him even though I could just strangle him sometimes when he was being pigheaded but I would not change one word of the book.
Jude Deveraux is my favorite author and I was excited to read her first book.It started off great.However, it was very draggy and amateurish.It felt like she included every possible idea she could into this booktoo many characters and too many plotsthis one book could have been split into four different stories!The book lacked refinementMore than a historical romance, every now and then I felt like I was reading a contemporary one.The difference between her writing in this book and the present ones are clearly evident.The only reason I managed to finish this book was coz its jude deverauxBut come to think of it, its not all that disappointment.
I have enjoyed jude deveraux for a very long time now, probably 15 years, and I had never read this, her first book.
I finally read it and it was a quick couldn't put it down romance.
There was a moment where I wanted to stop reading, but I pressed on and really enjoyed this book.
Just when you feel comfortable with the romance, it takes a turn for the worse, when you think you know what's going to happen, something completely different happens!
You think she's going to zig and she ends up zagging!!!
I might have enjoyed the story more if it'd been written a few years into Ms. Deveraux's career.
The simplistic writing style really pulled me out of the story & left me feeling disconnected from the characters.
Clearly someone saw something in her writing with this book & gave her a chance, which resulted in some really stellar books later in her career.I could have done without Morgan being this teeny, weeny, precious, tiny, little kitten and all other women in the book being big, stout, large, hulking, manly gals, but whatever.
I've spoken often of Ms. Deveraux's dislike for anyone who isn't waif-like.
When Morgan Wakefield finds out she has to marry in order to receive her inheritance, she asks Seth Colter, a handsome rancher with land in New Mexico.
Seth is intrigued by Morgan and agrees to the proposition.
Morgan thinks they will be married in name only and after a year, they'll have the marriage annulled and both return to their lives.
Seth has other ideas.
Morgan interests him and she gets prettier and more loveable the longer he is around her.As they travel to New Mexico, Morgan and Seth grow closer and realize they love each other, but when Seth's jealousy gets the better of him, it's to the detriment of his relationship with Morgan.
This book seems to be early in the writing career of Jude Deveraux.
Her later books are more involved and historical in nature.
This book is a romance that introduces us to New Mexico in the early days of settlement.
Between the kidnappings, frustration, and misunderstandings of the major force in this book, a rich story develops.
This book might be early in her career, but show Deveraux to be a fabulous storyteller.
It was predictable, and the ending seemed to be a little forced and convenient, but a very interesting read.
It is a quick read, but enjoyable at the same time.
It was SUPER fast-paced.So many things happened in this novel! I feel like there's enough material in here for a TV series, haha. For that, I give the plot and the characterization two thumbs-up :)Being one of Jude Deveraux's earliest novels, I can say that she improved her writing style a lot through the years, *sheepish smile*. A number of sentences made me cringe while reading because they felt..wrong. Some words felt wrongfully put together. The whole storyline makes up for it somehow though.
I don't know why I torture myself by reading Deveraux's books. Decent story but too much sadness interspersed for my tastes. About a girl with an inheritance deadline and an uncle determined to keep her from meeting the terms of her father's will in order to gain the inheritance himself by default. The terms she must meet in order to inherit are she must marry by her next birthday and live a year with her husband in New Mexico. Desperate the girl asks a man who owns a ranch in New Mexico to marry her.
The Enchanted Land lay west of the bluegrass splendors of her Kentucky home, east of the gold dappled salons of San Francisco, beneath the star-spangled skies of New Mexico, and within the powerful and tender embrace of one man. Love had made Morgan Wakefield beautiful, for as Seth Colter's lips lit her heart afire, her tousled hair fell golden, her face blushed amber...and men could not live without her.From a Spaniard's captive to a land baron's wife, Morgan endured, for always she held in her heart the beloved caress of the man who defied a continent's dangers to possess her!
