https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/325110.In_the_Castle_of_My_Skin
It is the story of a small island country (Barbados) becoming aware of itself, its colonized identify and the desire to cling to tradition while feeling pulled into change.Lamming alternates points of view-the young child, the school boys, the teachers, an elderly couple lamenting yet wishing for change in an almost dizzying way.
The imagery of water, the floods that mark for the islanders the beginning of the entry of the 20th century into their lives, the emmigration of the island's most promising young men and the burgeoning awareness of politics, slavery, and the greater world.Betrayal is a major theme: the islanders are betrayed by the land, the "mother" country (England) and one of their most followed leaders, Mr. Slime (I swear I am not fabricating his name!).
To get enough money to buy all the land, he has to attract investors from outside the village, and of course they don’t care about the people and their families having lived on the land for centuries – they just want their own space to build a house of their own.It’s very well communicated – I felt real anger at the injustice of the villagers’ situation, but also could empathise with Mr Slime and the other investors, who were coming out of poverty themselves and just wanted a piece of land to build a house and a middle class life.
I found this to be a slow and difficult read.There seemed to be too many styles, narrators and descriptive scenes to make it easy to follow. It's a pity because the themes of the book were great - the slow disintegration of English imperialism, the treatment of the "slaves" by the whites, the village's inherent belief in the power of old England, the rising injustice, and the coming of age of G.
3.5/5
"The earth were I walked was a marvel of blackness and I knew in a sense more deep than simple departure, I had said farewell, farewell to the land." Beautiful novel. I took a lot of time in finishing it, close to two months but it's only after chapter 7 that you really connect with this one. This novel marks your arrival into Caribbean fiction. ♡
An autobiographical novel, covering Lamming's years between nine and eighteen on Barbados, before going out into the wider world.The whole 'feel' of 1930s/ 40s Barbados is conveyed in various ways - conversations between the locals, interaction with the white landlord (to whom most of the villagers seem to feel a sort of ingrained respect), everyday incidents.
Also the amateur philosophizing of the teenage boys, hanging out at the beach.As life changes, quite drastically, for the village, Lamming portrays the great feeling of nostalgia for things he would never see again.And a first realization that 'his people' are treated very differently in other countries...
However, Lamming writes of the subtle issues of how colonization paved its way into the orient nations (here,the nation is Barbados).
It is probably because, Lamming was experimenting with the novel writing form.
And the language entails the 'post-colonial' confusion period, may be this is way the novel does not run on a linear line.
In order to make connections with the different episodes of the novel, one must give the novel an attentive reading, otherwise one may miss out on the little nuances of what Lamming is trying to tell in his novel.
This is much more accessible than a lot of Lamming's other work, and well worth delving into... he recreates Barbados so vividly that you feel you KNOW it, without ever having set foot on it's sandy beaches.
I was the only person in my freshman year lit class to like this book. One of my oldest and dearest friends from this class still makes fun of me for it.
took me quite a while to get into it, but once I did, was glad I persevered...
Instead he writes a collection of clashing, jarring vignettes which paint a broader portrait of life on the island, the changes that encompass and engulfs its people, while creating an orchestra of voices trying to be heard.The major scenes of the book revolve around the young narrator and his childhood friends, the school and the unexplained departure of the politically inclined Mr Slime, the building riots in the town and the homely chatter of old Pa and Ma who stand still while events flood around them, offering their commentary and their view.
I had to read this book for a class, so while I would have put it down had I been reading it on my own, I ended up pushing through. And I actually kind of liked it. It was slow and dense, but I found myself wanting to know what would happen next and I enjoyed some of the characters. It was certainly nice to experience a novel outside my normal genres and I definitely learned more about the colonialism and culture of Barbados.
Lamming is slightly like Hardy, only in the respect that this book have moments of the most astounding writing, but interspersed with loose and sprawling sections. To be honest the beginning and the end make this book worth it. His descriptions of Barbados are filled with precision and yearning and attention- before this book, I don't think I fully understood the value in describing nature.
This book had a truly interesting perspective on the way class and society has evolved throughout the different parts of the world. Not the easiest read and very Faulkner-esque in its confusing change of perspective, but definitely an intriguing read.
Incredibly powerful and moving. Technically diverse and times slips into essay (sort of) format. This novel makes you think about how important education is, and especially the effects that strict rules regarding education taken by colonisers has on the colonised.This novel is fucking amazing
Worth reading, recommended.
It ain't going to cost us nothing, nothing.Second Boy: Stones is free.
Maybe 'tis a penny an' a cent that cost me what I get.
I don't know.' (49)When Lamming switches to conventional storytelling, such as when Trumper is telling a story to Boy Blue and the first person narrator on the beach, the book becomes more interesting: ''Twus like this,' Trumper said.
Read the introduction before reading the book, but save the foreword for after, since Paquet refers to specific passages and page numbers.
fight, flight, or...what was the other'n....bury your head in the sand...three forms of response (i am paraphrasing) to situations and then take how horney said that an individual can form a neurosis using the wrong approach....or by not doing what those long dead ancient greeks said, know thyself and nothing in excess....so...like an animal's response, flight, fight...or give up...you read this one and the ones mentioned above--these "third world" writers concerned themselves w/government....all that malarkey...and the way they expressed their governments, all neurotic as defined by horney...well...there you go...anyway, in the castle of my skin....to me, it was like huck finn.
I'm not wholly familiar with postcolonial literature, so it felt like a new experience reading this book.
However, I got more used to how each chapter was different from the rest and I grew to really like that.
The ending was phenomenal and is really the reason I gave it a 4- all of a sudden I could just see how all the different pieces/chapters fit together to tell an incredibly complex story of postcolonialism, race, and village life on the island.
I feel a bit tight giving this 3 stars, but 4 feels a bit on the loose side...
I read this several years ago, and what I remember most is the prose itself, rather than the details of the plot.
I remember the difficulty I had starting it, burdened as it felt by its own sense of the past; I remember the struggle Lamming has to present Bajan dialect on the page, to try to give a sense of place in the patterns of speech; I remember the sense of cold uncertainty as the protagonist leaves the island.
What I remember is probably what the book is really about, and it's a steady, uncertain book; hence 3 stars.
Flowery, poetic language. Local dialect, with characters repeating themselves over and over again - conversations about the same thing going on for pages and pages. I can see how some would like this type of book, but I did not. I found myself slogging through just wanting to be done so I could move on to something I would enjoy.
The Book in my opinion is an excellent piece of work in that it paints an ideal picture of the impact in which colonialism had on the minds of Barbadians. Lamming's use of use of literary devices such as symbolism were cleverly used. well done.
Holiday reads: Thanks to Wallace Chuma, who, while we were in a Kampala bookshop, pointed out this book as one of his best-ever reads. He was right.
Pretty entertainig, but more importantly, poignant as a postcolonial text. Reads like a Carribean Tom Sawyer.
Cxc English. Only book worse was A House For Mr Biswas. For a better Barbadian book about growing up in this era see Growing Up Stupid Under The Union Jack by Austin Clarke.
images of Barbadian schooling and the impact of that schooling on the island's children
Wonderful book. Beautiful evocation of how the world expands as we grow up.
2.5 stars. I really did try to like this book.
Haunting in many ways.
Think Tom Sawyer meets Mr.Kurtz meets Tom Joad. Well, kinda.
