https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/123969.Visions_of_Cody
As much as I love Kerouac for all that he has meant for literature and counter culture, this book was too experimental for me to enjoy.
The ability to perfect one's craft is what separates the good artists from the bad ones.Then we get a 150 pg transcript of a series of conversations between Jack, Neal, and friends.
Besides the incoherent ranting and disjointed musings, I found myself reacting to Jack and Neal's reckless lifestyle---mainly the drug abuse.
Neal died in his 40's as well, most likely because of drugs.
One ofthreebooks most influencialthatIwill NeverfinishTOOgood to finishalways more in storetake it in take it out take it to take two or more it I for feel a it test saying thought things I hear it feeling things it couldn't say
Jack Kerouac was one of the most magnificent prose writers; that is something I firmly believe.
The reason for my three star rating is simply the long winded passages connecting those incredible sections of prose.
If you want Jack Kerouac in all his glory, read this book.
But by the time I reached the end, the last few pages had me in bits.
Not only were the descriptions so vivid and tangible, but the raw emotion pounded out of those pages.
One of the most interesting relationships that came out of the Beat Generation was that of Jack Kerouac and Neal Cassady, and this book goes a long way to explore Jack's feelings for Neal.
Visions of Cody fulfills the endless scroll concept, and as indicated by many reviews here the effect is somewhat taxing.But it really isn't.
I don't believe Kerouac wanted Visions of Cody to be read page by page and cover to cover.
I think as if hitching a ride form one town to another the reader is recommended to pick up the book, read a few pages, put it down, and start back up again a few days later, bit by bit.
Visions of Cody is the kind of work that sets him alongside Whitman and his hero, Jack London.
this book is a lyrical trip.if you're afraid of getting in too deep, don't bother trying.too many adjectives or clauses, but really, that's just the point.pass the tea already.
Wow. Complex, dreamlike, sometimes boring, always challenging. Only for those with a strong interest in Kerouac's scene and a familiarity with the outlines of The Great Rememberer's world. I found it compelling, as a whole, though tedious on the micro-level. One of the most honest and powerful attempts to describe and understand male friendship, in a world and at a time when such things were beyond the pale, at least for American men. Kerouac is the taking up the mantle of Walt Whitman here, and singing his song of love in a new century.
Sixteen years after I read "On the Road," I tried "Visions of Cody," partly because I had embarked on a road-trip around the Eastern Seaboard, and partly because I wanted to give Kerouac another chance.
"On the Road" had been a formative, nearly biblical experience for me, but when I read "Dharma Bums" earlier this year, I found it a little childish.
I was afraid that I had completely outgrown the Beats, the way a kid no longer finds amusement in an Etch-a-Sketch.But "Visions of Cody" was a great surprise: Not only were these "B-side" reflections raw and beautiful, more diary than chronicle, but they also mirrored many of my own movements.
Definitely don't attempt it unless you're already familiar with Kerouac, because he makes LOADS of references to things that you absolutely won't understand unless you've at least read On the Road.
I read it for a class that I'm taking on Kerouac and Ginsberg.
I probably wouldn't have read it otherwise, but it was good.
The middle section (the transcription of an extended conversation between Kerouac and Neal Cassady) is tough to get through, but the last third of the book ("Imitation of the Tape") is awesome.
This book is insane, but if you're a fan of Kerouac, give it a shot.
Of all Kerouacs great novels, ON THE ROAD, THE SUBTERRANEANS, THE DHARMA BUMS...the level of quality of the prose in this one is consistently amazing.
It is a dense, melancholy novel that flashes between a stark, lonely New York with forlorn ambitions and a sort of jazzy, but haunted hobo Denver...so many great moments throughout and the last 100 pages of the book read like an amazing prose poem.
For all Denverites it is a MUST becuase its in this novel Jack really pays homage to Neal Cassady's hometown in all its Cow Town glory with billiard halls, pick up football games, dirty barber shops, bakc alleys, dry hot summer days and boyos cruising and on the make on that great spectacle of an American Saturday night.
This wild, vertically-narrated novel has got some of Kerouac's absolute finest writing, simple, straight, and hugely compassionate.
It is also host to some of his worst writing, pages upon pages of drug-addled sketches, a long transcription of a tape made while Jack and Cody was HI, and then an imitation of said tape that goes off the deep end, Kerouac jerking off his typewriter.Thing is tho, this all builds a complex and abstract (can the novel be simple and abstract?
Kerouac had one hell of a fertile artistic mind, and in Visions of Cody he throws it up onto the page, and it works.
Either a 1* or a 5* considering that this had by turns some of the most masturbatory & misogynist (seriously, women in here are either silent or elevated to the form of mythos and grandeur of some sort) benzo'd & stoned ramblings ever written, & yet-- so much attention & intention given to the lost forgotten wild mania of America & the picayune that makes it just a really fucking big novel, of, yes, visions.
My vision of Cody is that I'll get stabbed if I try and hitch a ride even 20 miles down the road.
I've read a lot of Kerouac with great interest.
I can't say that I've been let down by him but frequently his books recede into the same emotional landscape.
They all blend together and that seems to be part of his intent.
However, Visions of Cody is un-like any of his other books.
One has to go to the likes of James Joyce (specifically Ulysses) and William Faulkner to find such a watershed narrative event in prose.
When I read Vision's of Cody I had more respect then ever for Kerouac's writing.
It's bars, diners, movie-house balconies, red-brick buildings, bums, girls, highways and Joan Rawshanks in the Fog. It's a long rambling patchwork of tapes, scribbles and notebooks written by a romantic bent on self-destruction.
Why do I like Visions of Cody so much?
Maybe simply because I read it at the right time in life.
One of those books we all have that did it for us.Read On the Road first, then maybe the Dharma Bums or Desolation Angels.
Then Cody will be there "rushing and gliding like Groucho Marx in heaven" whenever you feel like taking the ride.
I may only have enjoyed 30 pages of this. Most of it is drugged out stupidity. Cody and Jack both struck me as complete assholes. The only good things I take away from this book are the memories of where I was when I read it. The first half I read curled up in bed beside Sean. The second half I read on the boat trip around Komodo National park.
This one was quite the journey...much more difficult than any of Kerouac's works I've read before but essential if you want to get to know Kerouac as a writer.
This was a strange one. At times the writing was inspired and fantastic, and then it could be so tedious. Same themes and cast of characters as in On the Road, but uneven. Highly recommended to Kerouac fans for the sections of great writing (which even made me LOL literally a couple of times) and for historical reasons. Non-fans will probably hate it.
I'm really glad I read Carolyn Cassady's biography first as it really put everything in context, particularly the tapes of Neil and Jack drunk and high.
The first night stoned off their asses where they can't remember for more than a few sentances what they're talking about, (like a very humourous early podcast) to the last night where Jack practically passes out and Neil ends up rambling away with Carolyn only half listening.
It's funny cause I don't think Neil was as great as Jack did but I can read Jack writing about him and love it.
Like people in cafeterias smile when they're arriving and sitting down at the table but when they're leaving, when in unison their chairs scrape back they pick up their coats and things with glum faces (all of them the same degree of semi-glumness which is a special glumness that is disappointed that the promise of the first arriving smiling moment didn't come out or if it did it died after a short life)--and during that short life which has the same blind unconscious quality as the orgasm, everything is happening to all their souls--this is the GO--the summation pinnacle possible in human relationships--lasts a second--the vibratory message is on--yet it's not so mystic either, it's love and sympathy in a flash.
I'm glad I stayed with it.The book can be considered a companion to On the Road because Visions of Cody explores the Dean Moriarty (called Cody Pomeray in Visions) character and the friendship he and Kerouac (Jack Duluoz) shared.
Some of the saddest stuff I've ever read comes in the last third of the book, when Jack Duluoz realizes that he and Cody have drifted apart.
The end of the book is an elegy to a friendship Kerouac cherished.
It has come to an end, as all things must.The transcripts of conversations between Jack and Cody can be hard to get through.
This is really not my taste, although I would have loved it 12-ish years ago when I went through my let's-read-everything-Beat phase, whether I liked what I was reading or not.
I don't think I can even rate this star-wise, because I read one page at a time, occasionally.
And then, I got to the part around page 30 where he writes some sort of letter to Cody about some girl who likes to fuck...and then I just stopped.
Ever since I read Maxine Hong Kingston's Tripmaster Monkey, I notice things about the Beats I never saw when I was a goofy teenager.
I...just...can't...read...this.
Kerouac says 'Visions of Cody' is a "vertical, metaphysical study of Cody's character and its relationship to the general America."The story seems to cover (however briefly) nearly the entire Beat Generation history, while the last 100 pages or so is more a retelling of On the Road...but you'd have to be familiar with 'On the Road' to recognise it.I wanted to give this 5/5, however, I didn't appreciate having to wade through part 1 (about 60 pages) to arrive at the 'good stuff'.Also, there were parts that could have been edited out and the book would have lost nothing.So 4/5.When I remembered to read this like a prose poem and not a straight prose novel I really enjoyed Kerouac's style.
That aside, though, its length and depth are undoubtedly the result of a throng of brilliant ideas all trying to rush out on the page at the same time.
When Kerouac takes the time to crystallise some of these, they're always overwhelmingly beautiful, little nuggets of literary gold.
You just need patience and a good gold pan to get to the end of the book and really enjoy it.
this book ought to come with some warnings attached.
especially this:1)DO NOT READ THIS AS AN INTRODUCTION TO KEROUAC.
this book is much more accessible (that is, enjoyable) if you're versed in kerouac prior to reading it.this is a full-on rollercoaster ride.
not a novel, not short stories, not a memoir, not a biography; sometimes brilliant and alive, sometimes mundane and redundant; dark, bright; urban, rural; sane, dog off the chain.herein are the full back-stories of many of my favorite kerouac stories.
but before and after that there are plenty of kicks to be had.i'm interested that so many others have rated this book highly.
Read: In Visions of Cody, Visions of Gerard, Big Sur - hardcover from libraryI'm not a big fan of the Beat authors. I appreciate their role in American literature, but I'm usually left wondering what was so great about it. At least, that's how I felt about this book.Kerouac rambled on too much for me. Really long sentences that I thought would never end. Aimless storytelling. This book was really all over the place. I get that it was experimental, but I can't imagine anyone truly enjoying this book as pleasure reading.
Packed with ethereal, loose, stream of consciousness prose, Visions of Cody covers the same time period as On The Road, but does it in a radically different manner. Incredibly rewarding read, however Kerouac's misogyny is a bit troublesome at points.
"It was dawn; he lay on the hard reformatory bed and decided to start reading books in the library so he would never be a bum, no matter what he worked at to make a living, which was the decision of a great idealist."
Throughout my reading life I had always stayed away from Jack Kerouac.
Sort of a weird sequel to "On The Road" the publisher makes Jack change the names of the characters probably in the effort to hide the fact that Kerouac writes about the same shit over and over again.
The second part of the book is literally hundreds of pages of Kerouac tape recording himself and Neil Cassady (the Cody of the title) and some other drunks rambling, usually nonsensically, about other times in their life when they were drunk.
There are large portions where you weave through Kerouac's fevered brain, in stream of conscious, where pages and pages flow by without any form of punctuation.
There were many points where I was frustrated because I was so bored with the book (in fact in his "Visions of the Great Rememberer" essay, Ginsberg even says there are large portions of this book which are so boring as to be unreadable), and nearly stopped reading it.
If you've read Kerouac and love him, you have to read it.
But if you've ever loved "On the Road"or any of his other books, this is a must read.
The section that is transcribed was fascinating, though i think the conversation ended up not quite what Kerouac had in mind or on the ball as he hoped it would (Ginsberg said the same thing in his words at the end of the book), but its still impressive how well he articulated every little thing and captured the conversation.
It's not my favorite and though impressive and important, the sexism just rubbed me a little wrong and reminded me of the darker angles of Kerouac, why many of my friends don't like him.
This book is perhaps the purest of Kerouac: Published posthumously, his voice is clear and, seemingl
