https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11774573-the-sensible-thing
The girl tells him that she can't marry him because he hasn't got enough to support them both and so,that seems the sensible thing.
As they talk, it is revealed that she hasn't lost her love for him..
She talked about about the sensible thing that day but her life after that was without any happiness, without any sense.
"This night's dusk would cover up forever the sun and the trees and the flowers and laughter of his young world.." He came back with lots of money for them to live, but lost his youthful days and pure love in doing that..
Man in a fight between rationality and the fickle human nature always makes for a good story.
But we all can see the irony engraved in this story with a man happily leaving his job for a girl living long distances away.
She getting confused and eerie when he has finally come to her leaving everything, just to be with him.
So he will learn to live on with the pain, anguish and confusion fitting for a man who has loved and lost.But he will live and he will last.
There are all kinds of love in this world, but never the same love twice.
Amazingly written story and I so love the title!! Love would be justified for its form, whatever be it. The faith in the other shall never vain. It takes that moment of truth to test it. Tough times never last but the lessons they leave make the direction our lives-their love in this case, would take. Another test comes with handling success, but that is for a different story. What shall keep us in the comforts of the day, will reflect in the sensations of the night. So good day Sir!
"she was something desirable and rare that he had fought for and made his own--but never again an intangible whisper in the dusk, or on the breeze of night. . . .Well, let it pass, he thought; April is over, April is over. There are all kinds of love in the world, but never the same love twice."
America's greatest ever writer. That's all.
There are all kinds of love in the world, but never the same love twice.
A sweet tale of true, distance-surviving romance that was inevitably polluted by r€a£it¥.
The couple supposedly loses their young, “innocent” love when George pursues a career to win back his disenchanted Jonquil, and returns to a bitter realisation that they and their love have changed.
A brilliant way to underscore the ways materialistic society robs us of our young time and hearts to fulfil “the sensible thing”...
While that does invoke sadness and nostalgia, the reunion demonstrates that true love withstands time, distance and although changes, never falters.
For someone in a LDR this is truly inspiring, and definitely prepares me to embrace this day should it ever arrive at my calendar.
"Well, let it pass, he thought; April is over, April is over. There are all kinds of love in the world, but never the same love twice." :')
Beautiful writing, of course, nothing less was expected of the great Fitzgerald.
2017 - love stories - macmillan literature collections
His interest is purely the un reachable love, particularly women who breaks poor men's hearts.
This story possess a peculiar realism, rather than his unconventional stereotypes in which women delight themselves with several men's attention, here we have a relationship that can't be because of the circumstances in which our main character is in.
It's all about fighting for the love of our past and the one we believe its the one and only, and Fitzgerald narrates this feeling of anxiety and excitement quite unique.
A best way to sum up this story it's with a tale's quote: "There are many kinds of love in the world, but never the same twice."
The line that makes up the end of this short story is what led me to read it. This is only the second of Fitzgerald's works that I've read, but it's already becoming obvious that the transience of love is a primary theme of his. It's incredible how much feeling he is able to put into a few short chapters. He succeeds in giving a taste of those emotions which are fostered by "love", and how they change with the passage of time, or are magnified by distance.
Fitzgerald is always wonderful to read because he makes you care about characters who maybe don't deserve it, and he can do it in under ten pages. Of course, there's also his ability to create and end a story with as much meaning and interest as novels like The Great Gatsby in short stories. The Sensible Thing is no exception.
The sentence of the end, is remarkable a story about an engineer with economy issues and not a well-paid-job and the girl he wants to marry. Receiving a letter that will make him quit everything at New York to go to the girl's town. There you can see love, then see it disappear and watch it reborn after year but not as the equal from the beginning.
"Well, let it pass...there are all kinds of love in the world, but never the same love twice."Books and stories always seem to come to me when I need them the most. I've been George O'Kelly more times than I can count. I'm the kind of misery that loves company, so I'm thankful I'm not alone in my sorrow. I'm not the only victim of "the sensible thing."
Heartbreaking...bittersweet...lovely.
