https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32429.Dragon_Tears
Although I liked this one better than the last one I read (Deeply Odd), it still fell short of the mark for me.
My favorite thing in the book was the small portions written from the dog's point of view, they were fun and seemed right on the money.
I also liked the musings of Mickey Chan.
According to Mr. Chan, a simple bowl of soup illustrates the true meaning of life.
In all fairness, I was pretty much marking time reading this, awaiting the release of another book.
Even so, this may be the last novel I read by this author.
From what I read in other reviews, maybe it is like one of those favorite old movies that is not impervious to time...you watch it years later and the jokes are old, the characters are dorky...but I really liked this book.The first time I tried to read it, it scared me so much I had to put it down.
That said, the 3rd time I was like, "what was so scary that I couldn't keep reading?" Maybe it was the cruelty.As others mentioned, he talks from the dog's point of view at times.
Overall, Mr. Koontz dipping into the trope well isn’t all that desperate a writing technique, but if you’re looking for something different then the main characters are a fail in this book.
These are not new forms in modern literary terms, but Mr. Koontz gives them more than enough depth of character to satisfy a thriller.Where this book often goes too far is in its relentless Millennial doomsday theme.
I hope they at least left a window open a crack.In any case, I am giving this book a star for some of the nice phrasing that Mr. Koontz uses.
The theme is Harry & Connie are spooked & track a " bloodless" monster/ghoul named "Ticktock" (20 years old).
A challenge to Harry and Connie is stop "Ticktock" and in one instance they must escape when he says "you'll be dead in 16 hours, dead by dawn, dead by dawn".
Harry & Connie track "Ticktock" to Brian Drackman's house on Phaedra Way. It ends in an exciting typical police chase with Harry, Connie and Woofer finding "Ticktock ".
A ending surprise to deal with is: The worry of time stopping if "Ticktock" is killed and why worry about hiding Brian's monies at Phaedra Way?
While I always enjoy a good paranormal horror (and Mr. Koontz's are usually top-notch) this one just had me rolling my eyes.
When you picture it happening, it is terrifying and Mr. Koontz utilizes this device to its fullest extent.
As well, I feel like I shouldn't be noticing all the research the author has done in pursuit of realness.
I don't think horror books should feel dated but Dragon Tears fairly dripped of the early 90s as well as a huge dissatisfaction with the era.
The story would have read just as well without the frequent side-trips into the minds of other characters it was hard to feel anything for.
This is not one of my favorite Koontz books. The best part (in the opinion of many Koontz fans, including myself) is the portion of the story told through the eyes and voice of a dog. The rave and time freezing scenes are interesting, but overall this is mediocre Koontz. The continual references to the story being told in the nineties "these are the nineties afterall" and blah blah got rather annoying.
Dean Koontz books are weird for me.
To stretch that metaphor to Dean Koontz books, I would liken them to a coffee date with mediocre coffee and a companion who is only pleasant in short doses.
In Dragon Tears, Our Heroes are mostly a cop duo who are being haunted by an insanely powerful psychopath with the ability to stop time (or near enough as counts.
There's no reason they should triumph over this guy, not even surprise- he can stop time.
I've read the book several times since the first time as a teenager, and I'm still not entirely sure how that's supposed to work.
Probably the worst of Koontz's books that I've read. The central concept is interesting, and I liked the Tick-Tock character. The problems are that the plot meanders way too much, and Koontz takes some strange time-outs to moralise about subjects he clearly knows nothing about. For example, a rave sequence where he spouts a lot of debunked "facts" about the effects of ecstasy and decries the morality of drugs just before having Tick-Tock brutally mutilate some of the ravers. It seems hypocritical at best, and slows the story to a crawl.
With Dragon Tears, we have a case of the latter – this book was enough to keep me interest in how things would come together, but it is far from my favourite Dean Koontz read.Personally, for me, I feel as though nothing much happened with Dragon Tears.
Dragon Tears feels like one of those books, one of those books where he didn’t quite give his all.I’m sure there will be many people who enjoy this one, but as a Koontz fan I found this one to be somewhat lacking.
I love the supernatural element that frequents his books, mainly because that is a very real part of Life, as far as I'm concerned, and he's not afraid to write about it.
Oh, the dog is a great character in this book, and that's another reason I love Dean Koontz--the animals play wonderful parts.
Anyone who has loved a dog, and has had a dog in one's life in a meaningful way, will appreciate the canine element in his writings.Thank you, Dean Koontz, for keeping me in great reads.
Dangers arise everywhere, and the world changes for the five people: they will do anything and try to understand what is going on, a quest which will lead them to the sanctuary of a new, terrible god...Dragon Tears is typical early 90's Koontz; fast-paced, imaginative and entertaining.
He could describe the scene like few others in his field, but these days are long gone.The best thing about Dragon Tears is the villain, who's...but you've got to discover that for yourself.
Back in the day, Koontz was still considered "weird" and this book shows why.
description: Harry Lyon was a rational man, a cop who refused to let his job harden his soul. His partner urged him to surrender to the chaos of life. But Harry believed in order and reason. Then, one fateful day, he was forced to shoot a man, and a homeless stranger with bloodshot eyes uttered the haunting words that challenged Harry Lyon’s sanity…“Ticktock, ticktock. You’ll be dead in sixteen hours… Dead by dawn… Dead by dawn… Dead by dawn…”My reading tastes have evolved past earlyish Koontz, just as he himself has evolved into a far subtler writer.NEXT!

I'm crying dragon tears, because Dean Koontz did it to me again!For the second time (Innocence) I'm thinking this story is going owhere...even though his descriptive prose is like poetry.Yet, he manages to spool out an intriguing yarn, replete with essayson modern (the 90's) life....homelessness....the drug culture....young adult behavior going to the dogs, etc.And speaking of dogs. ho would've thought of turning the whol story over to a dog hero?Masterful!
A couple of LA cops, one a straight arrow, by the book cop, the other a gonzo anything goes type, is confronted by an evil fairy.Seems very 1980's.
Meh, it's okay. Nothing against the book exactly, but I just am not into most serial killer type of books. They bore me for some reason. This one was unique for sure, and Koontz wrote well, but again it was meh for me. Characters were better than some of his other books though and seemed real, and we did get several scenes with the dog. Review soon
Welcome to the 1990s.Dean Koontz welcomes us to that decade probably 20 times throughout this book, which is indeed a very 1990s thing to do.
Like any decade-long time period, not without plenty of problems, but definitely not the stinking hellhole that Koontz evidently believed they were.
Dragon Tears conspicuously calls attention to the time period it was written, which is one of the irritating aspects of the book.
Generally in a Koontz novel you get the sense that he wrote it while also watching TV or folding his laundry because it just feels like almost no work went into crafting the language.
Sometimes life can be as bitter as dragon tears....This book is good, solid, classic Koontz.
I loved the way he talks to himself: Good dog.
Woofer, not surprisingly for those who know me, was my favorite character in the book.
He could have been created only by someone who knows and loves dogs, as Koontz does.This was a thoroughly enjoyable read.
I don't like to read too many Koontz books too closely together because they usually have a common theme and plots that are similar.
Knowing Dean Koontz's reputation, I was excited to read this story.
....................................................................SPOILER- It seems that most of the "monsters" I read in books like this are just normal people, which is a let down after all of that suspense.
True that he has some supernatural powers, I feel like it would have been better if he had to be killed in a strange and exciting way, rather than just killed as a human being.
A few of the Dean Koontz books I have read were slow and hard for me to get into which led to me having to restart several times.
So far this is my favorite Dean Koontz book to date.
5 stars because the main character is Harry Lyon and that cracks me up to no end.
Dragon Tears was entertaining, but not one of Koontz's best. I think I'll reread Watchers sometime soon. I miss it.
It's about a young man who was born with some weird powers due to his mother's experimenting with mind-altering drugs (purposely).
(The author has used this term in other books) He dreams of horrifying ways of killing people, and he actually does kill quite a few.
The story revolved around 3 people being tormented by this man, and a cop and his partner.
The dog even finds where the guy lives and leads them all there.
Other that the fact that the author uses a term I don't care for to describe homeless people (vagrant), the story is a good one.
3 stars instead of two because the story was somewhat interesting~ besides that the characters were somewhat flat, and their desires were not resolved in the ending except for killing the bad guy.
It was one of the most uneventful endings I've ever read because it never explained how the bad guy had gotten godlike powers, and though he was so immensely powerful he was merely killed, sprawled on the floor with 5 bullets in his brain.
His death took up less than a page, and the story ended a few pages afterwards without much of a conclusion regarding any of the main characters .
Rather disappointing regarding the ending.
Koontz takes a fairy tale to the nth degree. There's not explaining how the Golem happens without giving away the entire plot which is intricately woven together and frightening at every turn. Ticktock.
Scary! He's playing with your mind...
The other aspect of this novel that I find appealing (much like "The Stand," "Cell" [oog, not my favorite, but I gotta include it], "The Dark Tower" and "The Mist" by Stephen King, and, on mys "to-read" shelf, "Strangers" by Mr. Koontz), entail the coming-together of a very unlikely band of individuals to fight the evil they have all experienced (including a wayward mother and child, a down-on-his-luck street bum with a much shinier past, and a blind woman whose importance is revealed in a very satisfying surprise late in the novel, plus our intrepid police officers and led, yup, led, by Woofer, no surprise if one reads Mr. Koontz.
Dean Koontz, an author who also wrote the Odd Thomas book series, wrote this novel Dragon Tears and published it in 1993.
This book is absolutely worth reading for those who like thrillers with hints of horror and mystery and Dean Koontz, from the novels I have read by him, has a unique writing style.
One of the most important parts to making a novel worth reading is the characters and the characters in Dragon Tears are authentic and relatable with both characters being ones that different personalities can relate to.
Haley LattiePeriod: 2AIM English/ Global Humanities1-30-12Dragon Tears Book Review There are those weird case scenarios in life that you can only imagine would never happen to you. You think that there is only a five percent chance that it could ever happen to you and assume the best, that it is most likely going to turn into someone else’s problem. This I not always the case. Especially in the book, Dragon Tears, by Dean Koontz.  There are two unsuspecting cops that are partners just doing thei
Haley LattiePeriod: 2AIM English/ Global Humanities1-30-12Dragon Tears Book Review	There are those weird case scenarios in life that you can only imagine would never happen to you.
Koontz does this on purpose to get you to feel like you know exactly where they are going next with everything.
Harry was the soft spoken follower in the beginning of the book, but in the end, he was telling Connie exactly what was happening and how they were going to do it.
All in all, Dragon Tears by Dean Koontz proved to be an interesting read that kept me going.
Cop duo Harry Lyon and Connie Gulliver hunt it down – or is it the other way around?On an average shift, surprise action disrupts the lunch break of our cops when a random psycho starts shooting up a burger place (remember a similar event in “Cold Fire”?) Meanwhile, our real villain goes about his business, giving literal deadlines to some choice citizens.
Of course Harry and Connie stumble upon him and catch his attention, after which the story becomes one long chase sequence.Koontz does a great job of focalisation, keeping good track of which character’s point of view he’s supposed to be using, by dividing the story in clear chapter sections.
So how exactly is he supposed to deal when he learns that a dangerous and incredibly powerful psychic has set his sights on Harry with the intention of killing him by dawn?My ThoughtsI’d forgotten how fun Dean Koontz books can be.
I gave in and picked up Dragon Tears, insisting that if I don’t read these things, then I need to get them out of my life, so then read them and shut up!
It was like a big spoonful of medicine you don’t want to take, because you’re afraid of the taste.
No, he’d rather treat his audience like they need to be spoon fed.Yes, this was a distraction.
