https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22571540-the-stranger
As Adam begins to investigate the validity of the stranger's claims, he is (as most characters from Coben's novels are) ill equipped for the battle that will occur.
Usually I'm able to support the charmingly befuddled lead in Coben's novels but this time I couldn't.
His naivete makes for an exhausting read.The Stranger is not only flawed with Adam Price.
Yes, in every mystery novel you want your head to spin but not so much so that you can't pinpoint a single possible lead to solving the mystery along with the characters.
I am a huge fan of Harlan Coben.
This one is a stand-alone suspense novel that fully delivers in true Coben style.
Can you keep a secret?
Not if The Stranger is nearby....
There is a man, who refers to himself as The Stranger, traveling the country revealing everyone's darkest secrets.
The focus is on Adam and his wife Corinne.
The stranger approaches Adam one evening to reveal a secret his wife has been hiding for the past few years.
Adam is then on the hunt to find the truth behind the secret AND the stranger.
What is the stranger's motive?
The Hook - My number came up on the reserve list at the library and I thought “Why not?”The Line –“Feeding teenage boys was like filling a bathtub with a grapefruit spoon.”The Sinker – ”The Stranger appears out of nowhere, perhaps in a bar, or a parking lot, or at the grocery store.
I liked the plot well enough and after two days I’m still thinking about some of the themes so why am I not going to sing its praises by giving it 5 stars.
I gave this book 2 stars for 2 reasons- 1, the author was Harlan Coben whom I love and 2, it kept me needing to finish it to find out how the ridiculous plot and storyline ended.
This was by far the WORST Harlan Coben novel I have ever read -- and I finished it!
The storyline was convoluted, the characters were unbelievable and the ending was so perfectly tied up it almost made the book a joke.
However, I will continue to read Harlan Coben's books because he is a fantastic author--I just wonder what he was taking when he wrote this trash!
What happens when a dangerous secret is told?Adam Price has a good life with his wife, Corinne, and their two sons in a wealthy New Jersey town.
The news devastates Adam.
Meanwhile, we see the stranger approach others and share more devastating secrets.
Who is this stranger, and how does he know so much personal information?The novel is more of a slow burn compared to Coben's other thrillers, and it took longer for the pieces to come together.
Harlan Coben long ago cornered the market on the New Jersey Suburban Family Thriller sub-genre, which involves average, ordinary American folks--almost always wonderful people with great families--who are suddenly thrown into chaos and danger when some powerful negative force intrudes into their daily lives.
Their principal worries seem to revolve around whether or not their elder son is being treated fairly by his lacrosse coach and whether the kid will get enough playing time.Then, out of nowhere, Adam's world is abruptly turned upside down when a stranger approaches him in a bar and reveals a devastating secret about Corinne.
4.5 starsHarlan Coben is a favorite author of mine. I was really looking forward to this book.The book was even better than what I had hoped for!! I only started reading his books a year or so ago and I am so happy I found him. I would suggest starting this book if you have a bit of time on your hands as it's very hard to put down once you start. Just when I thought I figured out where the plot was going I was surprised again. Fast-paced and easy to read but with fantastic twists and turns.Highly recommended!
This book was trademark Harlan Coben and was full of twists and turns and I found myself guessing until the very end.
As you would expect in a Harlan Coben book, this book takes a few turns and at times it is hard to see how everything is going to come together.
I definitely found myself surprised by the end and that is a very good thing.I would highly recommend this book to anyone who enjoys a fast paced mystery with lots of twists and turns.
If you have not yet read a Harlan Coben book, please do yourself a favor and pick one up as soon as possible.
I am a big fan of Harlan Coben, so I was anxious to listen to this book.
Now, the premise of this book is that a stranger shows up in town, tells you a secret about your family member and then disappears.
Some of the other secrets “shared” are much more believable but aren't part of the main story line like this one is.
I struggled with the whole idea of the Stranger.
Coben tells a good story and when you're listening to it, it's enjoyable.
He gets marriage, having teenagers, the suburbs and all the ordinary facts of life.
"Well,  Mr. Secret Revealer!!!! "This quote from dialogue between a victim and the titular character bears repeating: "Well,  Mr. Secret Revealer!!!! ." This is not a line in a romantic comedy nor a line offering comic/satiric relief in an otherwise serious novel. No. Instead, and I am not joking, this line is a direct quote taken from serious dialogue in what was intended to be a suspenseful scene. I acknowledge I'm partly to blame for my inability to overlook scat left floating in the pool of
No. Instead, and I am not joking, this line is a direct quote taken from serious dialogue in what was intended to be a suspenseful scene.
It might have been side-splitting if it had been intended as comic.
Joke-maker.".This was my last time to be duped by the flap description into thinking that this Harley Coben novel won't be like the one before; no, this one will be realistic and memorable, with intelligent dialogue.Go ahead, come at me, "Well, Mr. True-Life Talkie Sukiyaki!
We are taken straight into a world full of suspence, excitement and tension, just the way I like it.
Great plot and characters that were well developed, you felt like you actually got to know them.How would you react if you were sitting there, minding your own business, and then someone aka "The Stranger" sits down next to you and says something that will dramatically change your life and make you question everything you have ever thought was real.
This makes for a gripping book, I did not want it to finish and now will have to wait till his next novel comes out.
What this stranger tells him rocks the very foundations of that marriage and sets off an insidious chain of events that will put everything Adam loves on the line.In classic Coben style we have a seriously addictive mystery element interspersed with some great characters who you want to root for.
The story twists and turns its way to a stunning conclusion, there is a far wider picture to be had here which is drip fed to us in chapters not devoted to Adam, you may work this one out you may not – but the themes are varied and intelligently interwoven into the plot and this made for a really really great read.
Harlan Coben's thriller, The Stranger, is a terrific fast-paced book. Coben, a favorite author of mine, has come up with an interesting novel about web-based secrets. Out of nowhere a "stranger" approaches Adam Price and tells him about a devastating secret that his wife, Corinne, has kept from him. Then all hell breaks loose. First his wife takes off and a lot of surprises follow. Interesting is all the characters in the book trying to maintain the "American Dream".Although not Coben's best, it's quite enjoyable. Highly recommend for any of his fans out there.4 out of 5 stars.
2.5★Meh. Just too typical and over stocked with the all too common over-stretched ending. In particular a main character is referred to as "The Stranger" which struck me as rather silly. I kept thinking of stranger danger and the shadow knows. Pretty much only read the dialog the last quarter of the book in a quest for closure. It left me feeling as lukewarm as this review and obviously outside of the pack with my rating.

Originally posted on The Book NymphoSomeone, a stranger, approaches Adam Price and tells him something provocative about his wife, Corinne...a secret she's kept from him.
And so begins a story of deception, mystery and conspiracies that escalate dangerously.
It's one of the more complex stories I've read by Coben and it kept me enthralled through the end.
However, my strong rating is testament to how much I enjoyed the reading experience overall.
And, George Newbern delivers a strong performance, especially with his interpretation of the main character, Adam Price.
Harlan Coben has been one of my favorite mystery writers , but I was disappointed with this book. I understand I am in the minority here as most readers have rated it highly. I found the many supporting characters lacked sufficient development to make them interesting to me. Coben is the master of suspense and surprising twists, but thought it lacked character development. You may guess the direction it is going from the Gone Girl story, and you may be wrong.
Secrets....everybody has them.
But there are those individuals who store past actions in a dusty locked box away from prying eyes.
What if someone is privy to that stored information?
Just how far would the concentric circles from the thrown stone extend?Harlan Coben presents the supposition of how safe is safe?
I was drawn in hook, line, and sinker.
Unfortunately, there was no catch at the end of that hook.
Just too many, many secrets held by too many, many people.
The result was an ending that makes the reader moan in despair.
Coben is a fan favorite.
It's impossible to say why THE STRANGER stands out as one of Harlan Coben's best works without giving away too much. So here's what I can say. It has all the trademark stuff that brings you back to his books: a good, decent guy (from Jersey, natch) whose world is turned upside down, dangerous secrets, plenty of nice twists provided by technology and the internet. But on top of familiar landscape, THE STRANGER lays down surprising and risky layers that pay off in spades, putting it right up there with TELL NO ONE, THE WOODS, and SIX YEARS. Read it!
The nightmare has begun.I’ve read quite a few Coben thrillers over the years and have found the quality to be variable: from the excellent  Tell No One to the dire  The Woods.
I liked the ‘voice’ of Adam, he felt real and I was immediately sympathetic to his plight.
Here they did.Most people will probably list this a s a routine thriller and heart it is.
It won’t get me rushing out to find another Coben thriller but it will ensure I return to his work at some point.
4.5★sAdam Price was minding his own business, waiting for the results to see if his son had made the team, enjoying a beer when he heard a quiet voice in his ear – astounded he turned around.
His wife Corinne, sons Ryan and Thomas and he were extremely happy with their lives; was it all about to come to an end?Adam was sure what he’d been told wasn’t true – but the seed had been planted; the niggling doubt was there.
The Stranger by author Harlan Coben was an extremely well done crime/mystery/suspense novel – dark, gripping and intense, the pace was fast; the plot was different and filled with intrigue.
Until he doesn’t.
The Stranger brings it all to a crashing end when he reveals Corinne’s well-kept secret.In this cat and mouse tale, Adam’s low-key reaction regarding his missing wife seems discordant, but, in the end, perhaps his lack of concern speaks to the crux of Corinne’s deception.
And, as is often the way with fanatics, The Stranger’s decision to play God begins a domino effect he somehow doesn’t see coming, resulting in murder and lives shattered.Despite the main character possessing the abysmal judgement of a sheltered twelve-year-old, the novel is believable, relatively fast-paced — brimming with twists, turns, and dead-ends — and reminds us that anonymity isn’t an option when ‘surfing the net’.
The book begins as a man who calls himself the Stranger suddenly appears, cornering "innocent" people who are going about their daily lives.
That happens to Jersey suburb dweller and attorney Adam Price, who has a beautiful wife, two lacrosse-loving sons and what appears to him to be the good life.But those few words, and the realization of his wife's deception, turns Adam's world upside down.
Adam doesn't buy it, especially since she packed up with no word to the sons for whom she lives and breathes and absconds from the teaching job she normally wouldn't skip out on for the world.
Turns out the stranger is part of a group that makes it their business to discover and expose people's secrets, sometimes engaging in blackmail along the way.
There are a number of characters and threads in the story: the lacrosse board members have personal problems; 'the stranger' confronts several people with secrets they don't want exposed; an ex-detective has a son with cancer; Ryan and Thomas are upset about their mom's disappearance; a woman police chief from Ohio inserts herself into the murder investigations; Adam Price has a secret of his own; and so on.
Another great read by Harlan Coben. This outstanding stand alone novel is action packed and I felt the need to finish it in almost one sitting. I really enjoy the way he writes with a touch of humour and lots of action intermingled with twists and turns. A must read for his fans but I really do recommend his books to any mystery thriller reader.
Being a huge fan of Harlan Coben, the long waiting list from the library for the ebook version of Stranger was painful, but expected.
The pace is perfect, never dragging on, sharing just enough to make you think you know what's going on then BAM, another twist you didn't see coming.
The only thing I struggled with was keeping track of the numerous names of characters and how they fit in, but in typical Cobin style, he tied it all up in a pretty bow in the end.
When the pretty wife of attorney Adam Price disappears after an unresolved confrontation regarding a big lie, he seeks out to locate the mysterious stranger who divulged the secret to him discovering a conglomeration of deceitful and ruthless characters.Although not my favorite COBEN novel. (the Myron Bolitar series remains top dog for me...pun intended) this super fast-paced and engaging mystery was entertaining and filled with a multitude of surprising secrets!
Coben has done it again. Another fast paced mystery with a 180 head spin at the end. This novel really makes you think about the "American Dream" and the secrets that our neighbors might harbor. Great novel and I look forward to more of his. Where does he get these great ideas?!?!?!
This was a 3.5 star read.
I find myself at that place again: the one where I look for that perfect ratio balance between readability and memorability ( is that even a word?!).This was 5 star readability but will I recall much of it a month from now?
Doubt it.
It was formulaic in that most comforting of ways- one I often seek after a tough work week- where I do everything the author is wanting me to do..I ask myself the right questions at the right points in the book, I puzzle over the whodunnit, I come up with theories....just one more chapter...I really haven't said much about the actual story, maybe there isn't really that much to say..I found the ending of the original and main mystery from the MC's point of view a bit of an anti- climax.This was the perfect quick fix weekend stress buster.
That is until The Stranger comes up to him and whispers a secret in his ear that will threaten everything he holds dear.
The Stranger is a spooky character who goes around wrecking people's lives by telling them secrets about their loved ones.
These are just two of the questions that Adam must answer when his wife goes missing and his life is turned upside down.
A great read that will keep you glued to the pages as you try to work out the mystery that has caused Adam's wife to disappear.
