https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11071466-second-chance-summer
Seriously.)He blinked, saw the book in my hands and blinked again.He didn't say a word, just closed the door very quietly and walked away even more quietly.I think I actually scared him.---EDIT---My brother opened the door of my room to find me jumping on the bed and screaming like a banshee "OMG I can't believe it!!!!!!
Thank you for the lovely comments :) If you haven't yet, I hope you will read this book, which is one of my favourites.PPS: My little brother is complaining that in this review he looks like "an insensible jerk afraid of a weeping woman".
Watch my interview with Morgan Matson here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yVqHE...I have a headache, a runny nose, I can't read the computer screen because my eyes are swollen, and my shirt is sopping wet from tears, so that can pretty much tell you everything right there.
I don't usually cry when I read books but man this one got to me. Another great read by Morgan Matson!
This is the second book I've read this month that has just completely shattered me. 3 Full video review to come!
Reread for #monthofmatson2017I feel like I love this book more every time I read it.
And Henry is SO FREAKING GREAT.Reread May 25-30 for #monthofmatson Well my nose is currently stuffed up from crying so hard if that gives you any idea of how I feel right now.
I really love Taylor's journey throughout this book and it's just great even though SO MUCH CRYINGReread June 14-15 for #MonthOfMatson.WELL this book always manages to make me ugly cry in a way few books can.
I love all the characters in this book, and I feel like everyone can relate with Taylor in some way or another.
I love Morgan Matson books!
But I didn't want to cry today 😥This isn't the best book of hers I have read but it was still good.
Taylor, her mom and dad and brother and sister decide to go to their lake house for one last summer.
Taylor's friends she left behind were mad at her.
The book was sweet and sad and makes you realize you need to cherish the time you have with loved ones and friends.
There is also a dog ❤️Anyway, I enjoyed it but was sad happy 😕
4.5 stars! Full review (and possibly a gush) to come on my channel.
EXCUSE ME WHILE I SOB OVER HERE OK BYE
Tissue count: 3This book took me forever to read.
It dragged a bit, which I felt was unusual because I flew through Matson's 2 other books.
Although I did enjoy this one and it was definitely summery and made me wish I had a lake house, I'm really tired of Matson only writing about shy girls who never speak their mind or have confidence.
It was really irritating in this book, moreso than her other two, and I found myself unable to relate to-- or enjoying reading about-- the characters.
And I'm still unsure if this book was overhyped for me, or if that's just how I feel truly.
Her and Warren’s relationship really progressed a lot and their sibling love towards the end was just perfect.This book was great to watch play out as Taylor managed to bridge the many distances that she had with the people that she loved.
Then waking up and hearing that he passed away in his sleep peacefully :’( (hide spoiler)]This really was beautiful and I can’t wait to give more Morgan Matson books a go because I really love her writing style so far!
I feel like not everyone will understand Taylor but I just...
Honestly, I love reading about strong female characters who don't give a shit about what other people think and who represent empowerment.
Now, what I want to ask you is: "Do you feel like you're like that every single moment of your life?" I don't think so.
My family pretended just like hers.
I feel like I'm still pretending.
So, what I wanted to say is that we're all allowed to feel like crap sometimes.
And we're allowed to be strong.
Yes the premise is very sad- about a family spending their last summer together considering the father has only a few months left to live, but the story was approached in a light-hearted manner stretching and fixating the plot on Taylor, the middle child and her shot at second chances.
I enjoyed how she was able to spend a productive summer while gaining confidence and winning back her friends which had all been possible because of the time she spent with her father, getting to know him better and learning so much from him during his last few weeks alive.*wails* I admire Taylor and her whole family for putting up a strong face during an impending tragedy.
Not sure how, but this was even better the second time around. It's now my fave Morgan book. Tears but such a good story. All YA contemporary needs to take a page from Morgan's book. She's gold. Loving #monthofmatson, even though I'm carrying it into June ;P
I was sitting on a bus and I was trying VERY hard not to cry.
Posted to Almost Grown-up:WARNING: Second Chance Summer by Morgan Matson is NSFW.
Second Chance Summer is of the ugly-crying NSFW variety.
Taylor’s dad seems fine as the summer starts, but his diagnosis hangs over them even in happy moments.
The way he and Taylor come back together is so realistic and just… do they actually make boys like this in real life?
Because I would like one.We get into NSFW territory (again, from ugly-crying) as Taylor’s father begins his decline.
I literally have no criticism of Morgan Matson’s Second Chance Summer.
I am of the belief that there is nary a contemporary on this planet that needs to be over 300 pages, and it seems like Morgan Matson, despite being the love of my life and joy of my soul, may be ignoring the letters and emails and faxes and Instagram direct messages I've been sending her on this topic.But I digress.
I'll just say this book is way, way, way too long and move on.I read this book while I was driving through a lil lake town.
I read this book while I was in the backseat of a car that was driving through a lil lake town.
I still loved the book and enjoyed the whole reading experience but I was not expecting what I read.
Instead of a summer packed with clubs and other things, Taylor's parents decided that they should visit their old lake house in Pocono Mountains.
This wasn't a fluffy contemporary read like I was expecting, it was more of a depressing sad book with a nice story.
Taylor was one of the people that I wished talked things out with people instead of running away from her problems.
Mr and Mrs Edwards were also amazing characters that I enjoyed reading about.
3.5/5 ♡ second chance summer was a story of beginnings and endings.of all the morgan matson books, this novel is probably my least favorite.
some of her actions were also SO frustrating.although some of the characters were questionable, i LOVE the family relationships in this one.
even when things in the plot are falling apart, their family is also coming together like never before.the romantic relationships, however, made me feel pretty neutral.
it just made me realize and feel a lot of feelings.although i felt the characters and relationships were lacking in some parts, i still really enjoyed this novel!
"It wasn't until now, when every day I had with my father was suddenly numbered, that I realized just how precious they had been. A thousand moments that I had just taken for granted -- mostly because I had assumed that there would be a thousand more." An incredible story about second chances, loss and grief, and finding the courage you always knew you had. Morgan Matson is a master at highlighting the big moments that most everyone will probably go through in life and pinpointing the little mo
"It wasn't until now, when every day I had with my father was suddenly numbered, that I realized just how precious they had been.
A thousand moments that I had just taken for granted -- mostly because I had assumed that there would be a thousand more."
Morgan Matson is a master at highlighting the big moments that most everyone will probably go through in life and pinpointing the little moments we most likely take for granted.
This book made me want to tell everyone I love most that I love them.
If you still haven't read this book, I highly recommend it.
I'll admit: there was a moment in this book around the halfway mark where I was worried it was going to be my least favorite MM book and that I might actually give it 4 stars *GASP* The book had the huge task of balancing a teen girl's life over the course of the summer and everything that accompanies it: boys, friends, work & drama...
I loved the messages about friendship, second chances and what's really important in life.Morgan Matson is so incredibly talented and this book was no exception to the other amazing works I've read by her.
“The thing is that people only get hurt—really hurt—when they’re trying to play it safe. That’s when people get injured, when they pull back at the last second because they’re scared. They hurt themselves and other people.”  A heart-felt, beautiful tale about family drama, childhood romance, and friendship that will pull your emotions.It's my first time reading a book written by Morgan Matson, and I could say that she's one of a kind. The first few lines of the book already told me that the aut
A heart-felt, beautiful tale about family drama, childhood romance, and friendship that will pull your emotions.It's my first time reading a book written by Morgan Matson, and I could say that she's one of a kind.
Even though she was not really comfortable going back there-- because going back means possibly seeing her best friend Lucy and childhood sweetheart Henry, she had to- for the sake of her dad who wanted to make his possibly last summer meaningful.I love these kinds of stories.
I recommend this to everyone at all age who loves summer books with a blend of drama and a little bit of romance.
Henry just stared at me, and I looked back into his green eyes, feeling the sudden urge to break into hysterical laughter, because it was beginning to seem like I couldn't turn around in Lake Phoenix without running into him. Second Chance Summer is a book that'll give you the courage you need when trying to stand up after falling; it'll give you the strength you need when defeated by the God of Life; it'll also give you the permission you need when following your heart.Second Chance Summer is
Henry just stared at me, and I looked back into his green eyes, feeling the sudden urge to break into hysterical laughter, because it was beginning to seem like I couldn't turn around in Lake Phoenix without running into him.
It's a book that's going to worth your time reading and staying with you eventually.Taylor and Henry were childhood-friends-turned-couples when they were 12, but their puppy love ended abruptly since Taylor had a habit of running away whenever things got too thorny and too complicated.
The author didn’t fail to activate my long-numbed emotional functions in me (considering I just finished reading a super duper boring book) by the end of the story and I was both grateful and regretful.
I really, really enjoyed this book. It brought my own memories of summers long past where my family and my best friend's family would go camping every summer. We'd always meet so many interesting kids there.I thought the main character was heartbreaking and annoying and flawed and realistic. Just like a teenager should be. I felt her pain through and through.Even though this book was devastating it just made me want to appreciate my friends and family more.
I just want to curl up in a ball now. What a beautiful story about family, love and loss.
I couldn't be any more happy right now if I were that dog. It has a synopsis and a title and a release date! Now all we need is a cover.
*4.5 HEARTBROKEN STARS* “A thousand moments that I had just taken for granted- mostly because I had assumed that there would be a thousand more.”  So... Remind me again why I thought that finishing this book during my lunch break at work would be a good idea??Because I'm crying my eyes out right now and my colleagues are in a panic because I suddenly started crying lol. Review coming soon!
I'm waiting until this goes on BookOutlet, then it'll be mine. Love her writing!-----Another Morgan Manson read and I enjoyed it! So lots of just every day musings and such but I believe it's to develop characters and their relationships so I didn't mind. Though it was boring to say the least. I still had to know what happened at the end and I was tearing along as I read. It was cute and sweet and heartfelt. A perfect summer read, I give this one four stars out of five. <3
Absolutely beautiful, heartbreaking story.
It is 3 AM.Tissues are everywhere. I AM A MESS.
Reseña completa en: http://elcaosliterario.blogspot.com.e...El libro es bastante lineal, sin grandes giros ni sorpresas, pero con una historia cuya magia se encuentra en lo bien contada que está y lo agradable que es de leer.
Además, creo que no es una historia que vaya a ser recordada por ese aspecto ya que hay otro tema mucho más importante en ella.
Por este motivo, creo que la portada en la edición española no refleja bien lo que implica la historia aunque no puedo negar que es muy bonita.Si tuviese que resaltar aspectos negativos, diría que se echa en falta algún que otro diálogo más porque en ocasiones se hace un poco pesado.
