https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/159848.The_Lady_in_the_Tower
First I'd like to thank my good friend Marian for sending her copy from Canada; she is the expert on the Tudor time frame.This is a wonderful perspective of Anne Boleyn, King Henry VIII's most notorious wife.
Plaidy gives us a very kind and unusual viewpoint of this interesting and fascinating woman, who broke hearts and was the essence of Court during that time frame.
However, the author takes great pains to advance the idea that Anne is often misunderstood and painted in a unfavorable manner.
This is a great read for lovers of Tudor history.
In the interim, I've read more current novels by countless authors about doomed Queen Anne Boleyn.
It's impossible for anyone to know how Anne really came off personality-wise, but novels written about her usually fall into 2 camps: those that portray her as a full-out bitchy shrew, or those that cast her as an intellectual femme fetale - wise beyond her time and greatly misunderstood.
Plaidy weaves both of these aspects into her portrayal of Anne, and only near the end does it ring false for me (hence the loss of one star).I would highly recommend this novel for those readers who don't enjoy non-fiction history, but want to learn about this fascinating woman's life and times.
Anne Boleyn was the second and most famous of Henry VIII's six wives.Henry's determination to marry her, in part, led to the separation of the Church of England from the Roman Catholic Church.Another reason was that Henry wanted the wealth of the Church in his own hands being a greedy grasping man.The book begins with Anne's incarceration in the Tower of London as she reflects on her life.We are taken back to when Anne was seven years old and traveled to France to serve in the household of Princess Mary, sister of Henry VIII, and wed to the King of France, Louis XII.We are given the colorful details Anne experiences and witnesses in the Royal French Court.
Their forced split and her subsequent dismissal from court was a low point in Anne’s young life and caused the coldness she felt toward men, especially the powerful Cardinal Wosley and the King (once she learned he was the cause).As the first half of the book ends, Thomas Wyatt, a neighbor of Hever and childhood playmate of George and the Boleyn sisters, makes his feelings known to Anne.
There were many political obstacles between Henry and his heart’s desire, such as the ever changing alliances with either France or Spain, as suited the needs of policy.Wosley’s downfall precipitated Anne’s in that, for the first time, she lost a little of Henry’s regard when she gloated over the man’s demise.
Sé que lo que le hizo a Catalina (otra de mis personajes históricos favoritos) y a su hija María no fue nada noble y en su momento le toco vivirlo (o pagarlo como lo quieran ver) con todas las infidelidades de Enrique VIII casi al segundo de que Ana se convirtió en su esposa, aun así es más que obvio que todo de lo que se le acuso (adulterio, incesto y alta traición) fue inventado ya sea por sus enemigos o por Enrique VIII del cual puedes esperar cualquier cosa con tal de deshacerse de lo que ya no le estaba funcionado.
But it's best not to always trust your thoughts, better to get a 2nd or 3rd opinion, However - good luck getting any honest, or theologically correct, advise in the days of King Henry the 8th.
Possibly this is similar to King David's Bathsheba affair - But Henry was definitely NO David.And i'm always fascinated to learn of Sir Thomas More (YES the Catholic church thought it wise to give the murderer of William Tyndale a Sainthood - and people wonder why i'm not Catholic???)"In England, however, under the 1408 Constitutions of Oxford, it was strictly forbidden to translate the Bible into the native tongue.
I loved that Anne stressed that she loved her daughter dearly, often she is portrayed as hating the child who was not a boy.
I’m not sure if it was believable that she wished to feed Elizabeth herself.“Then it occurred to me, it’s not easy to tread safely when dealing with Royalty.” If only Anne had remembered the lessons she learned while serving Mary in the French court when dealing with Henry.
It makes Anne seem much less calculating then she is so often portrayed to be.
I also like how Anne believes that it will never happen.
"We'll have no Nan Bullen!"Probably one of the best Plaidy novels. She does an excellent job of portraying Anne as a victim of circumstance, as a young woman who is swept up in the Majesty of an overbearing, petulant, hypocritical monarch. Considering the shadow that was cast on her reign there is quite a bit of source material available, which Plaidy utilizes to the fullest. Ranks up there with her Eleanor of Aquitaine, Katherine of Aragon, and queen Victoria novels
The tempestuous love affair between Henry VIII and Anne Boleyn scandalized Christendom and altered forever the religious landscape of England.
In this instance, we are led to believe Anne's virtue is more important to her than being a king's concubine, a truly progressive notion for that day and age.
With Anne's cultured personality and exposure to strong female figures early in her youth (Henry VIII's sister Mary, who was Queen of France, and Mauguerite d'Alencon, sister of Francis I of France) it is believeable she could demonstrate the type of confidence and mystique that rendors men powerless.
Finding Anne Boleyn guilty of adultery was the quickest way to dispose of her.
Very tragic tale; I happen to believe that Boleyn was guilty only of circumstance.
Excellent!! One of the best Anne Boleyn books I've read to date. Jean Plaidy is an exceptional author who turned what could have been dry, boring history into a fantastic, page-turning novel! Very well researched and beautifully written. Highly recommended!! Audiobook: Anne Flosnick gave her best performance. Knowing her from historical romance novels, I found her narration of this story near perfect!!!
Anne Boleyn has always interested me and I finally have gotten around to reading some historical fiction depicting her story. The author of this book gets a wee bit repetitive at times but overall does a great job bringing the characters to life. I'm really enjoying this one - though I want to jump into the pages and rescue the Anne. What a story!
I recently re-discovered my Tudors obsession, and so I decided to pick a book about my personal favourite Henry VIII's wife, Anne Boleyn.
I really enjoyed reading about her relationships with Mary Tudor (sister of Henry and Queen of France for a while) and Marguerite (Francis I's sister).
I liked the characterization of Henry VIII, and how Plaidy insisted on his ambiguous character - both naively childish and frighteningly cruel -, but I would have liked to read more about Katharine, Cromwell and Norfolk.
Fascinating and intuitive first person narrative of the life of Anne Boleyn, the second wife of King Henry VIII of England.
I thoroughly enjoyed the author's take on Anne, especially the decision to write the novel as if Anne had written it while imprisoned in the tower before her execution.
It is laid out in a chronological, conversational, and confessional manner; as a way of looking back over the span of her life, to determine where she made her fatal mistakes, and how she may have anticipated them, or avoided them.
Anne is pretty, bright, mysterious, witty, vivacious, well-mannered, observant, provocative, and hot-tempered.
Get in Anne's shoesSuch a great point of view. The author helps you get in Anne's head so you see her for more than a one dimensional person. She's not the historical monster she was made out to be.
I thought it was very good. I enjoyed how the story was told as a memory from the night before she died so throught the story she would give her own opinion on her past actions. It will absolutely keep me coming back for more Jean Plaidy.
I first read The Lady in the Tower quite a few years ago and it has always been my favorite of all the books I've read so far about Anne Boleyn.
A interesting take on the Anne Boleyn story, you are expected to feel sorry for her throughout this story. I did enjoy it, but it is not the best telling of her story that I have read.
Elizabeth Boleyn died AFTER Anne Boleyn
One of the best examples of historical fiction. All the drama and tragedy that is Anne Boleyn told in the first-person. Unique and wonderful.
meeeehhhh
Repetitive and dry. I was disappointed.
My favorite version of Anne Boleyn that I've read so far! Almost every other book I've read--especially the infamous  The Other Boleyn Girl --play up the smear campaign that accompanied and brought about her downfall. Jean Plaidy, however, lets Anne have our sympathy even as we cringe (along with her) at her forwardness. Admittedly, I have read this book before. The first time it was lent to me by a friend in high school, and it's one of the few times that I can remember relating so strongly to
My favorite version of Anne Boleyn that I've read so far!
Almost every other book I've read--especially the infamous 
Admittedly, I have read this book before.
I also found the occasional use of historical (or nearly historical) phrases a bit jarring, since the language came out a bit more stilted--in large part, I think, because people rarely talk the way they write.
For example, when Anne arrives at the Tower of London, she falls on her knees and says, "Oh Lord God, help me.
He was such a strange man that one could not help marveling at him.
As the years go by and Anne catches the attention of Henry VIII, you can feel and hear her struggling to push away Henry.
It's always been known that Anne was extremely loving and tender towards Elizabeth.
Despite her struggles with carrying a male child to full term, you know she is extremely happy to have Elizabeth.
It is moments with Elizabeth that you can still catch a glimpse of the happy and innocent woman she use to be, before becoming a bitter and spurned Queen.
Not a whole lot new to be learned or proposed about Anne Boleyn at this point, fiction or non-, but Jean Plaidy manages some novelty with speculation on her subject's early life at the French court.
Plaidy presents Mary's "free and easy" behavior as a formative contrast to Anne, a reputation she works against all her life.
Anne condemns Mary's way of life, but the author doesn't, presenting it as just part of her nature to be happy giving and receiving pleasure with no look for material gains.
It was just as entrancing this time around as it was the first!Plaidy's style isn't for everyone.
I devoured her books as a teen and enjoyed the romance novel style these historical novels were written in.
In this way, Plaidy does bring history alive, at least for me.
I suspect these people's editions were faulty (they often were reading e-books, so that could be the difficulty).Having read this book, I am definitely interested in purchasing more of Plaidy's work from the current re-issue HarperCollins has produced.
I really wanted to give this book more than one star.
However, there were major problems I saw with the story that made it one of the few books I read that have me severely questioning my policy of finishing a book I have started, no matter how painful it is.1.) Repetitive: The story is horribly repetitive.
It seems like entire paragraphs where Anne is describing her sixth finger, her admirers, her worries over Henry, her sadness over Percy, are copied and added later to the story.
2.) Consistency: The language of the story was totally inconsistent.
It wasn't just a matter of the 20th Century narration not matching the 16th Century dialogue.
I used to love reading Victoria Holt's gothic novels.
Although I wasn't as fond of the historical novels written under her pen-name Jean Plaidy, I didn't remember them as being boring or poorly written in any way.
The story is supposed to be Anne Boleyn's remembrances as she awaits execution (spoiler alert?), so naturally the story begins in narrative form.
But when the story stayed in that narrative form, it quickly became dull.
I wish a publisher would focus on bringing the Victoria Holt romances to audio, rather than the Jean Plaidy historicals.
This is by far the most sympathetic novel I’ve read on Anne Boleyn, but that makes sense since it is entirely written from her point of view.
Convincingly written from her point of view.Anne Boleyn arrived at the French Court of the King of France as an attendant of his new Queen, Mary, younger sister of King Henry VIII of England.
Young Anne was only 7 years old.
She then proceeded to become involved in the biggest scandal of the century, essentially bagging the married King of England and claiming the crown of the Queen.
Obsessed might be too light of a word to describe my fascination with Anne Boleyn but really guys, this past few months she has been the only thing I wanted to read about.
I haven't read that many works relating to her tragic past (there has been four or five only I believe) but each book had me craving more and more of her story.
She is such a fascinating historical figure to me, I don't think my enthusiasm and attachment to this personage will end anytime soon !
