https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1000835.How_to_be_a_Real_Person
La verdad no recuerdo de cuando lo leí, si el año pasado o este, pero es un libro que me encantó por completo, lo amé. Recuerdo que lo leí en un día.
about a middle school student living with a mentally ill parent. great insight and a great voice.
Tiene una trama confusa. Realmente, detesté este libro. 😐
Her father left two months ago and her mother is clinically depressed and her condition has been worsening significantly since her father moved out.
She is afraid that if someone outside the house finds out her mother is on the downside of the spectrum then everything will fall apart.Of course, for Kara, it already feels like everything is falling apart.
She loves her mother and yet resents feeling the need to take care of her.
She loves her father, but is furious with him for leaving her and her mother in this situation.
En este libro se puede ver claramente varios de los comportamientos errados de siempre en el ser humano, por ejemplo: la escotosis (mentira existencial) del personaje principal, esta niña también mentía mucho, manipulaba.
Por otro lado, resulta interesante ver cómo muchos de sus comportamientos errados tienen, en el fondo, un fin bueno; aun así me parece ideal que buscar ayuda se muestra como la verdadera solución a los problemas, al contrario de la autosuficiencia.Este libro nos puede ayudar a identificar ciertos malos hábitos que tenemos cuando nos aproximamos a otras personas, por ejemplo: mentir.
Though the cover illustration makes her look older, this is the story of a 6th grader, so most secondary readers wouldn’t really consider it. The girl’s parents are split by the dad’s employment several hundred miles away. The mother is mentally ill, and the girl must deal with the illness, as well as her own attempts to have friends, and survive. I didn’t read the middle of this, but it seemed safe. Positive ending
Picked up the book during an ill-timed storm. Read it in about 6 hours with liberal breaks throughout. Not sure how I feel about the book, it was a super easy read and I really liked Kara. I always find books on mental illness to be an important part of the literary field, I am just not certain Warner developed that portion and the guilt Kara felt related to it well enough for her audience.
good book...sad though. if you like the book 'island of the blue dolphins', i wuold tell you to read this.
This is a holiday book. Was ok from a 2ndto3rd grade point of view. Eh.
Aunque lo parezca (por el nombre) NO es un libro de autoayuda. No me sorprende que el libro no tenga ninguna calificación de una estrella, ya que es realmente bueno.
this book is very good. it tell of sadness and the other side. i recommend it to everyone.
