https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1602647.The_Pythagorean_Sourcebook_and_Library
good read for jury duty. they'll never pick you.
The text covers three renditions of Pythagoras' life from various ancient authors, none of which were close contemporaries.
One gets the sense of devoted followers striving to ascibe divinity to a gifted man, as is common in ancient cultures.
The interesting parts of the texts are insights into the everyday details of Pythagorean life, which was as regimented as anything I could imagine.
This is a must read for anyone who is interested in a faith that didn't quite make it when compared with Chritianity and Islam.
Then again, the faith was based on the science of numbers, so in that respect, perhaps Pythagoreanism has become ascendent.
But, if not an exhaustive account of later Pythagorean writings and thought, this book is at least a thorough representative of such.
It includes the extant biographies of Pythagoras by Iamblichus, Porphyry and Laertius and the various quotations and aphorisms attributed to Pythagoras.
This book also serves as a great survey of Pythagorean and Neo-Pythagorean thought.
The biographies are often full of mythical material and discerning the man, Pythagoras, from the myth is not always an easy task; but they also contain some points of philosophical interest, and thus, worth reading.
For it's value as compendious survey and collection alone, this book is very much worth owning.
A collection of source materials on Pythagoras and Pythagoreanism in English translation.
Today, these seem like platitudes, but since Pythagoreanism was the main influence on Platonism and neo-platonism, and that was the major influence on Christian theology, the ideas may have been more original in their context.
Much of what is attributed to Pythagoras is obscure and probably symbolic; the interpretations here are interesting but not necessarily what he had in mind.
The interpretations here range from "don't eat anything which causes flatulence", which seems rather trivial for a major religious taboo, to "don't vote for Democrats", which is certainly good advice but probably not what he meant either.
Pythagoras was a bad ass but a lot of his followers were nutbags.
The Pythagoreans even philosophized over patterns of dots found in their gnomon and Tetraktys.All of this—the sacred geometries, myths, and cryptic apophthegms—has been collected by the scholar and translator Kenneth Sylvan Guthrie in his Pythagorean Sourcebook and Library, a sizable anthology of the classical writings, ancient biographies, fragments, and extensions of Pythagoreanism and its founder.
Pythagoreanism is devoid of rigor, and the biographies of Pythagoras likely have little truth to them, but that is not the point; this book is one of magnificent legends.
The Pythagorean Sourcebook and Library is a necessity for anyone interested in philosophy or Greek history, or even merely lovers of wisdom.
To grasp the significance of pythagoras this is a great resource. Pythagoras ideas have filtered through almost every field of mysticism: kabbalah, Islamic even Hindu. So a cmpilation of acient biograhies a collection of the surviving fragments from the Pythagoreans is more tnan welcome.
Too dense for me, but interesting.
I think this is the best collection of Pythagorean works and biographies I have found. With a pretty great academic-ish essay at the start which clarifies a lot of the Pythagorean philosophy and puts it into a historical context, and talks a bit about it's relevance for today.A lot of the stuff from other Pythagorean's is not so great, but the biographies, golden verses and symbols are essential. You will find more symbols than in a lot of the other collections.Worth getting for sure.
According to the Theosophical Society (who also sells this) and my recollection of reading this, it is the largest, but possibly not complete except in bibliography, book of Pythagorean texts. An interesting text it has (IIRC) is Pythagoras' _Golden_Verses_
I prefer the original sources. I enjoyed accessing, previewing and studying these Pythagorean references.
This book isn't what most people might think of as entertaining unless you enjoy history and particularly Pythagorean and Neopythagorean writings. I enjoyed it throughly.
