https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/218716.Swords_Against_Death
This hardcover is numbered 40 of 300 produced and is signed by:Fritz Leiber (Facsimile)Steve Rasnic Tem (Introduction)Dominick Saponaro (Artist)
In this collection, our two rogues journey from Lankhmar, seeking to avoid this city which holds painful memories of the deaths of their two beloved "girls," and are led instead to encounter death in two other forms ("The Bleak Shore," "The Price of Pain-Ease") before finally banishing the ghosts of their loves. There are many entertaining individual tales here, my favorite being the two stories about towers ("The Jewels of the Forest" and "The Howling Tower"), and Leiber's affectionate--although not slavish-tribute to the Cthulhu mythos of his mentor Lovecraft in "The Sunken Land."
Plagued by the nightmares they saw in Lankhmar in the last book Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser flee the city and gave their word never to come back only to meet a mysterious figure who predicts they will come back - several times.
From this point on their adventures are described in greater details.The first book consisted of four stories dealing mostly with the origins of the pair and circumstances of their meeting, some of which are fairly boring to be honest.
This is a classic sword and sorcery book and this time I do not hesitate to call it such.The final rating is 4 stars.
He was dressed all in gray-jerkin, silken shirt, and mouseskin cap-but his dark, flashing eyes and cryptic smile made him seen more alive than any of the others, save for the huge copper-haired barbarian next to him, who laughed immoderately and drank tankards of the sour wine of Lankhmar as if it were beer."They say you're a skilled swordsman and have come close to death many times," continued the small pale man in the black robe, his thin lips barely parting as he spoke the words.But the Mouser had made his throw, and the odd dice of Lankhmar had stopped with the matching symbols of the eel and serpent uppermost, and he was raking in triangular golden coins.
was a Hanna-Barbera production, broadcast from 1969 to 1978 (notably the same time many of Leiber’s work was compiled into novels.) Scooby Doo (and its reboots) were known for juxtaposing scary atmospheres with acceptable silliness…in episodic form.
A possible exception is the chapter “Ill met in Lankhmar” (the last story in Vol-1 “Swords and Deviltry” in which the scary-silly style is presented, but the outcome more dire than anything in this second volume.)Fafhrd and the Mouser float from one independent adventure to the next.
Each chapter is an enjoyable episode, but there is an apparent lack of an overarching conflict for the duo.
I found my mind wandering at times and needed to reread sections.
I commented on this to my 13 year old daughter (who is a sometimes voracious reader) and she promptly informed me that her mind wanders when a book bores her and she quits it.Maybe she was right.
Maybe this book did bore me.
But my mind did wander and it was a struggle.
Hence three stars rather than four.Maybe I need a break from this.
I need to read something immersive for the sake of reading rather than trying to understand a genre.
Maybe I am just over complicating this and this book bores me a little.
More escapades with Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser, a surprising number of which still take place far from Lankhmar, the City of Sevenscore Thousand Smokes.
Now that the origin stories have been dispensed with (in the previous volume), we can finally see Fafhrd and Mouser as the (mostly) inseparable comrades we've been expecting.
"Two Sought Adventure", their first published outing) and a couple date from the early 1970's ("The Circle Curse" and "The Price of Pain-ease", both of which tie off narrative threads from the previous volume's "Ill-met in Lankhmar").There are some fine, fine stories in here.
They were short magazine submissions, and it was only later that Leiber thought to write introductory stories.Being written in the early part of Leiber's career at different times and places, the stories show a great deal of pleasing variance.
They are all loosely connected into a grander arc, and the reader is invited to draw connections and conclusions about the interstitial parts, evoking real historical accounts.It's not difficult to see how, writing these stories without a clear path, at many times throughout his life, we get a grander scope of his world, from vibrant, rough stories to more complex, idea-driven ones.
Макар да се пада втори сборник в официалната хронология на цикъла за Фафрд и Сивия Мишелов, Swords Against Death (1970) всъщност представлява разширена версия на първата колекция за двамата авантюристи - Two Sought Adventure - публикувана през далечната 1957 г.
След коварната "Среща със злото в Ланкмар" от Мечове и черна магия двамата приключенци напуснаха столичния град, дали клетва никога повече да не се върнат в него.
Ала събитията се завъртяха в "омагьосан кръг" и след като пребродиха знайни и незнайни места, пребориха се с всевъзможни зловещи създания, Фафрд и Сивия Мишелов разбира се, се озоваха отново там, където започна всичко.

Hist, Mouser small!Why leave you the city Of marvelous parts?It were a great pity To wear out your heartsAnd wear out the soles of your feet,Treading all earth, Foregoing all mirth,Before you once more Lankhmar greet.Now return, now return, now!Swords Against Death is the second collection of stories about Fafhrd, the big northern barbarian, and The Gray Mouser, the small thief from the slums.
4.0 to 4.5 stars. These stories are a ton of fun. If you like the Dying Earth by Jack Vance and the Conan stories by Robert E. Howard, you will love these stories. Highly Recommended!!
While it was written much later than most of the stories contained here, "The Circle Curse" provides an interesting justification for Fafhrd and The Gray Mouser to quit Lankhmar (to free themselves of ghosts from their past) while promising that they'll inevitably return.
"Claws from the Night," a story about jewel-filching birds, benefits from unlikely schemes, humorous characterization, and some vivid Lankhmarese worldbuilding.This volume concludes with two of the strongest stories in the entire Lankhmar canon: "The Price of Pain-Ease" and "Bazaar of the Bizarre." "The Price of Pain-Ease" begins with one of the most audacious and memorable heists in the series--our heroes steal a house--and concludes with their journey into the underworld in an effort to literally rid themselves of ghosts from their past."Bazaar of the Bizarre" is, for my money, one of the best sword & sorcery stories of all time.
Swords Against Death: Sword and sorcery’s most famous duo are in top formOriginally posted at Fantasy LiteratureThis is the second collection of stories in the FAFHRD AND THE GRAY MOUSER series, but the majority of the stories were written well before the stories of the first book Swords and Deviltry.
The only difference is that Cugel does not have a faithful companion like Fafhrd the Barbarian to bail him out, but I’m quite certain they share a kindred spirit.Overall, this collection of stories is an excellent introduction to the FAFHRD AND THE GRAY MOUSER series, more so than the previous book Swords and Deviltry (with the exception of the initial meeting story “Ill Met in Lankhmar”).
Really, I could stop there, along with an exhortation to go read it immediately, but that's hardly an actual review, so I'll continue.As I mentioned in my review for Swords and Deviltry, the first half of that book before Fafhrd and the Grey Mouser met was pretty boring, but the second half was much more engaging.
All of these stories build images in my head and make me want to know more about Nehwon, and that's really the best thing I can ask for in a book.
I appreciate what it was and what it accomplished - the series is credited as one of the pioneers of sword and sorcery fantasy, and built the archetype for the 2-man duo in the genre, paving the way for things like Riyria and Egil and Nix. Unfortunately, it just does it so, so boringly.
I felt nothing for any of the characters, I never felt they were in any peril as they seemed to magically find a way out of every trap and situation.
But for me, now, with all the other things I have to choose from - nah.
Fritz Leiber's continuing fantasy stories about the adventures of two lovable rogues, Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser.My thoughts on this are somewhat disorganized, so you get a list:1.
It annoys me that these stories in this series are arranged in internal chronological order; so, for instance, in the first book, Swords and Deviltry, we get "Ill-Met in Lankhmar," the 1970 story that tells how Fafhrd, the northern barbarian, and the Gray Mouser, the urban rogue, joined up for their adventures; and in this book, we get several stories of their adventures that were written long before 1970.
The adventures of Fafhrd and Grey Mouser continue, roaming the many landscapes of Newhon, fighting monsters and ghosts and powerful magicians, partying in shady alleyways, always together, always ready to lend a hand to each other.
This volume is more fragmented than the origins story in the Swords and Deviltry, with shorter installments, but I could still trace the progress of the friendship and the continuity between different exploits of the duo.
Leiber prose continue to impress me in the exuberance of adjectives and spooky settings.
Fafhrd and Mouser's adventures take them to several places however; The Cold waste does sound a bit like 'Beyond the Wall' and 'Lands of Forever Winter' (or is it the other way around?) And the outer seas may not be a prominent setting, the hills they trod and the seas they cross are by far not as gripping nor important as Lankhmar, the city feels at once alien and exotic, with the Thieves' Guild (which I love From Skyrim and I see now where they get it) and The Great Salt Marsh, the night smog and passing in-story descriptions of gothic architecture and strange custom of which I would love to read and know more.
Fritz Leiber invented the term "sword and sorcery", and he was the finest author the genre has ever had.
In fact he was, in my opinion, the finest author of fantasy period.
I rank him above Tolkien, Howard and Moorcock, never mind Martin or Jordan.
I've read him described as a "master prose stylist", and the description is apt indeed.
Fritz Leiber was, simply, a terrific, extremely talented writer with a true love of language and a prodigious, playful, incredibly unique style.
He was the best, period, and anyone with any interest at all in fantasy who neglects Leiber is cheating himself.
This second book of the series seem richer than the previous collection, now that it's not burdened by the apparently necessary origin stories.
In general this format works better: shorter, punchier stories and a willingness to let some incidental character become the viewpoint briefly.I'm fascinated by the role that Nehwon and Lankhmar play in the development of popular fantasy: how much of Lankhmar is in New Crobuzon or Viriconium or Adrilankha?
There is a miasma of The Weird in all of the Fafhrd and Gray Mouser stories, whether in the outré settings or unconventional magic or the hints of otherworldly visitation.
This particular compilation may lack some of the fun of later Fafhrd and Gray Mouser escapades, but there's still humour and zeal in abundance, and a lot of grimness, and huge heapings of atmosphere.I've said this before in other reviews, but it's really hit me re-reading these first two books in leiber's sword and sorcery series that nobody can describe states of bewitchment, curses, and geases quite like he could.
The mixture of fantasy and the elements of horror were perfect.
Yet to single out a specific story is very difficult in this treasure trove of awesome!I believe it was The Jewels in the Forest we get a very interesting glimpse of Fafhrd that is not repeated in any other story I have read yet.
For a bit it seemed he had some kind of prohibition against killing but that does not present itself in any other story I have read with them.
The flow of the writing is just beautiful, the word choice perfect.
Not once was I bored or felt the story meandered.
Confusingly these Fafhrd and Gray Mouser stories were collected by Leiber to make up coherent volumes so one finds oneself reading stories that were written 30 years apart - in this case it's in service of a sub narrative across several stories that sees the duo despondent after the death of their loved ones and meeting a pair of strange magicians, culminating in the wonderful Bazaar of the Bizarre.Leiber makes short story writing seem effortless and there's not a single story here that's not worth your time.
Thieves' House is one of the quintessential fantasy short stories. It's has most of original D&D wrapped up inside. The other stories in this are all very good, and build on each other very well.
1943 Retro Hugo Finalist for Best Short Story“The Sunken Land” by Fritz Leiber (Unknown Worlds, February 1942) - Read 4/28/2018; Loved this. Reminded me of Robert E. Howard’s Conan adventurous sword and sorcery stories, full of action and wit. (4 stars)
People seem to really love these.
Maybe because I don't have nostalgia to bolster my experience?But even in the most fundamental of ways I don't find them engaging.
The stories are far too short--fine, I've never been a big fan of short stories, so I'll try to disregard that.
Next, however, are the plots.
There are some pointed observations regarding characters or events occasionally, but there is no apparent moral or message.
They always center on the same pair of characters, who are nevertheless more static, superficial caricatures than deeply realized people.
The further adventures of progressive barbarian Fafhrd and wizardling thief Gray Mouser. I am really enjoying these stories. They are a great escape and are also, unexpectedly, quite funny. My favorites in this collection were the final two, which feature the pair's rival mentors and taskmasters, the verbose Ningauble of the Seven Eyes and the concise and direct Sheelba of the Eyeless Face.
¡Más aventuras, más magia, más mazmorreo!
Girls are for desert, but unfortunately spiders too.
