https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/289741.Sophie_s_Heart
I read this EVERY year, it's a tradition. Timeless story, amazing characters, wonderful lessons, awesome ending. What more could you want?
I'm stressing the fact that she can speak five languages because the author did so too, anyway Alec finds out he's in love with her and they start "dating" and there's also a bunch of kids, and a lot of churchgoing, grocery shopping and blahblahblah, boring!
Watching Mrs.Kent come to Christ and then Mr.kent a year later.(...)"This book was just ok, didn't love nor liked it very much, 2 stars because I'm feeling charitable
I really liked this book.
I felt that they were all well developed and believable.
The edition that I read was over 400 pages long.
I really felt like there were a few spots that could've been edited down to shrink it and the story wouldn't have suffered.
The content of this book is also extremely spiritual which can be a good thing.
Just to let you know this isn't just a clean romance the evidence of Christ jumps right off the page.
Overall a great story and I can't wait to read more by Lori.
I was extremely disappointed in this book.
I've read one other book by Lori Wick and I really enjoyed it.
They cried way too much and too often, they prayed ALL the time.
I remember there was a time that Sophie and Mr. Riley were at McDonalds and they decided to pray.
I just think that is too much praying.
All the lady had to do is say she believes in Christ and say this prayer and she was forgiven of everything and she was saved.
I think repenting takes more than just saying you believe and praying.
Out of 5Style of Writing: 1Originality/Creativity: 3 Character development: 2Plot development & flow: 2Enjoyment Factor: 1Overall Rating: 1I give this book a one based on the fact that I didn't finish it.
Sophie moves in an makes herself a fixture in their home and lives and the man eventually begins to fall in love with her.This book has the stuffs I love but the style of writing just doesn't deliver for me.
As I said early I didn't finish the book because I no longer cared how it ended.
This is another of my favorite books.
She has to find her place in this country while she works as a house keeper for a family that has recently lost their mother/wife.
As with all of Lori Wicks books, it involves a romantic relationship between an man and woman as well as different character's relationship with God. It is uplifting and almost every time I read one of her books I find something that applies to my life right now either my relationship with someone else or my relationship with God. I love most of her books for this reason.

Really good book.
I think this is one of my favorite Christian Fiction books.
It's the first Lori Wick novel I ever read.
This book will be on the list of 'must-reads' for my granddaughters.Sometimes we see Christian Fiction as either preachy or fake - this is neither.
It may have some less realistic dialogue between the children but I have to say I've heard some rather over-protected children speak that way.I have no problem with it and will highly recommend this book to anyone - Christian or non-Christian.
But - not my copy - I'm protecting that one with my life.
Just as I'd remembered - it's my favorite Lori Wick book with The Princess a close second.
I love this book.
I have read it so many times that I am on my 3rd copy of it.
It tells a story or redemption after pain, of forgiveness and finding your way back to God, and a young woman, far from home, showing the love of Christ in all she does.
Every time I read it, I cry tears of sadness and tears of joy.
If you want to know how a courtship should be between two Christ-followers, one with children and a widower, one single and never been married, then this is the book for you.
I've also read this book several times over the years.
This is another modern day fiction book that takes place after the mother of the family dies and Sophie, a new immigrant, comes to live with the family.
There are many funny parts as Sophie tries to fit into the culture and many serious moments as she tries to help this family with their grief.
This book always makes me cry!
(in a good way, I love when a book can bring out emotion in a reader).
I truly love this book.
Re-read today and remembered why I didn't like it all that much. There are some sweet moments, but it's not a very well-crafted or well-written book, and it seems like many elements are only included for their "preach factor". Jesus and Christianity are so much bigger and more beautiful than a few tacked-on moral sentiments or a deathbed conversion scene can hope to convey, and while some of the ways the characters lived and/or expressed their faith were more realistic and deep, the incongruities made it hard for me to appreciate the story overall.
I read this book many many moon's ago but I still remember it. I might even have to reread it. Its a great story and I remember not being able to put it down. The story line(a bit hard to remember since its been at least 10 years since I read it) was about Sophie who be comes a nanny to three children who's mom has died. The father is still dealing in his grief. Sophie slowly starts to bring love and God back into the family and ends up finding love alone the way.
Great romance. Its my second fav. Book by Lori Wick, notwithstanding- her magna opus -Pretense. This is a book you just have to read because if i describe anything, you will configure the plot and it may steal your enjoyment of it. Highly enjoyable, a thick novel, you will immediately get get hooked into the storyline. I read this eons ago and yet I still want to read this book again. It a heart warmer!!! Romance: genre.
This is quite possibly the perfect romance, with all the right themes and messages. Rita was by far my favorite character and I'd love to see her return in a later novel -- maybe finding her own unique path to love the way Alec and Sophie did. I fell more in love with the children than the main characters.
Too much for me! I am a practising Christian but could not help rolling my eyes throughout the book.
This was such a wonderful book. It is a well written and truly sweet Christian novel about both romance and family. I really loved the characters and their development throughout the book, which has definitely earned a place on my favorites' list.
This book really interested me because the main character was from Prague, where my husband spent a couple of years. It was an enjoyable book, clean, interesting. It seemed to me that it took a really long time to tell the story. It was good, though.
all Lori Wick's books are pretty cheesy and this one was no exception... I was left wondering, "why exactly did I read this??" probably because I don't know what to read and it's driving me crazy.
I smiled, and i cried. A lot! But oh so good. If you have a couple slow days and want a really good story, read this.
A bit predictable, but a beautiful read. Lovely how Sophie gently works her way into the hearts of the children.
Alec Riley and his three children are just barely living one year after the tragic accident where the wife & mother is killed. His sister becomes friends with Sophie who is from Czechoslovakia. She suggest that Sophie live in their apartment and help care for the family. Alec agrees to have Sophie come help after he and his children interview her. Slowly Sophie through her faith is able to help all of the family.
Excellent!! I really enjoyed it!! Could relate to it in many ways. Serious, funny and cute!I couldn't put it down. Read it in one day. Of course, partly because I am retired, widowed and living with family and don't have many chores, so I have time!Is there a sequel to this? If so, what is the title?
My Favorite BookI chose this rating because this book is so good. You laugh at times and cry at times as you read it. The people in the book are so well portrayed that they come alive as you read. I read it at least once a year and never grow tired of the story. It is wonderful. I love it.
Sophie leaves her native Czechoslovakia thinking the United States would be a dream come true. She can't even find peace in her new job. She is a housekeeper for a man that has lost his wife and has 3 children who are grieving also. It is a challenge for her. She learns how God's tender mercies and loving intervention in the life of a family changes everything.
Life is so tough, but with God's help we can navigate through it. That's what happened with Sophie. She kept her eyes and heart on the Lord, when the world wasn't treating her well. Because of her obedience she was blessed with the desires of her heart and more.
It's a sweet romance (which I love) with complicated characters with the hearts and souls of real people. It actually served as an inspiration for my own novel, Against All Odds, which was just published. Lori Wick is one of my favorite authors.
This book is so well written. My mom read it to me in my teenage years for fun. I became a nanny because of the influence of this book. Although I think sometimes the scenarios work out too well at times, I love the story and read it twice a year.
Captivating This has long been one of my favorites. Lori Wick writes such wonderful characters and stories that grab you by the heart. I have read this story several times over the years, and each time I have savored it from first word to last.
Great bookI really enjoyed this book! Lori Wick is a great author, you can see everything that she is writing about. You feel like you are part of the story. This was a wonderful story with characters you could fall in love with.
