https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/420282.The_Polar_Express
They are treated to goodies while en route to the north pole where Santa is to offer the first gift of Christmas to one of the passengers in a town-square ceremony attended by all the elves as well as the transported youngsters.
Our hero is selected, and when asked what he would like, opts for a single bell from Santa's sleigh.
But the thing I wanted most for Christmas was not inside Santa’s giant bag.
He stood, holding the bell high above him, and called out, “The first gift of Christmas!”This is one of the all time great magical stories, with stunning illustrations.
A Christmas favorite we read every year. Beautiful story and illustrations. A must!
I had heard many friends enthuse about The Polar Express, knew it had won awards, and have a soft spot myself for illustrated fantasy books for children.
But this particular one I found to be a little disappointing.Yes, it has magical elements.
Please do not read the blurb, as it tells you the ending, and that is one of the few perfect things about this book.
After reading the book, it was interesting to watch the film based on it, which has also been highly acclaimed.
However it is the book of The Polar Express which is reviewed here, not the film.
Just gave a little nudge to my sleeping Christmas Spirit who rolled over and said, "come back in two months".
What would you like for Christmas?  I'm still in the spirit of Christmas, because Christmas isn't until the 7th of January here in Ukraine. So.....more for me. I've always loved The Polar Express  movie, It can even be said that it's my all time favourite Christmas movie, but up until now, I had never read the book. There's no "why" to the story, sorry. I've read it now, and I'm delighted to say I love it just as much as the movie-maybe even a tad bit more.  I love the moral of the story, abou
I've always loved The Polar Express  movie, It can even be said that it's my all time favourite Christmas movie, but up until now, I had never read the book.
I love the moral of the story, about how the principle of "seeing is believing" doesn't hold true in all situations in life.
THE TRUE SPIRIT OF CHRISTMAS LIES IN THE HEART
“At one time, most of my friends could hear the bell, but as years passed, it fell silent for all of them.
Though I've grown old, the bell still rings for me, as it does for all who truly believe.”
And while I can certainly understand and even appreciate why and how The Polar Express won the Caldecott medal, for me personally, the book has simply not been all that spectacular and in any way special (and I guess for all intents and purposes, Chris van Allsburg and I are simply not that good a fit, as it generally seems to be the case that while I can and do appreciate his work, both text and illustration wise, I never seem to be able to truly love and in any way cherish it or consider his picture books as potential favourites).
A wonderful and delightful book. The kids will love it. I just found the illustrations to be a bit creepy...
Though I've grown old, the bell still rings for me, as it does for all who truly believe.4.5I watched The Polar Express the movie as soon as it came out.
And it became one of my favorite Christmas movies.
And now I finally decided to read (well, listen actually) the book.
And the book was just as magical as the movie (even though I do have to admit that I liked the movie a little bit more)One more thing I want to mention is that Liam Neeson did an amazing job narrating the book.
If you haven't already read this book, I suggest listening to his audiobook.
The overall story has potential--a Christmas Eve train that takes Santa-believing children to the North Pole to witness the ritual of Santa giving the first gift of Christmas.
The story is told in first person, which is normally avoided in picture books for good reason.
That choice is telling, because the book is presented as "something that happened to me years ago." The first Christmas gift of the year is given to the first person narrator, a bell off of Santa's sleigh.
This is pure nostalgia, and in my opinion and experience has no pull on the hearts of the children who should be the primary audience for a picture book.
Brings back wonderful memories for me. A childhood favorite (and timeless classic). Beautiful story and gorgeous illustrations.
The Story: 3,5 starsThe Narration: 5 stars  “Though I’ve grown old, the bell still rings for me as it does for all who truly believe.”  Like the magical train ride, The Polar Express is a magical story, one that readers and listeners will want to enjoy again and again. It's a excellent book for a family read aloud during the Christmas season. Plus, the narration by Liam Neeson also helps ;)
Yes, I’m a kid at heart and there’s just something about those two movies that, for me, make it feel like Christmas.
I think it was around the holidays several years ago that I went out shopping during Black Friday (yes call me crazy) and bought my first HP movie for the low price of like $3!
Now, The Polar Express has been on my holiday schedule for about the same amount of time.
I was browsing around at Barnes & Noble during my lunch time (one of my routine stops) and saw this book.
This is one of those classics I read over and over again with my children and with my kindergarten students. The movie is also lovely.
Còn 3 tháng nữa thôi nà :))))
3.5 The First Gift of Christmas StarsThis book is a short little Christmas story about a young boy who finds a train to the north pole in front of his house very late one Christmas Eve, and so the story goes on from there.I remember enjoying this short, little Christmas story when I was a child, and years later, I still rather like it, and I enjoy the illustrations as well.
If only this little magical box had temple bells and wind chimes, which we have in our yard, but with our back porch’s bedroom door closed during these cold winter nights, I don’t hear them; instead I hear silence.As a child, I remember listening to sounds at night as I lay in bed.
I never heard Santa’s sleigh bells; instead I heard the neighbors' dogs barking, the train in the far distant as it came through the edge of our small town every night blowing its whistle, and in the summer I heard the added sounds of crickets.
I've seen the movie a few years ago, but when I read this for storytime at work, it was my first time to actually read the story. Excellent art and sweet story...but I don't quite agree with the emphasis on "believe in Santa"... Could be a little confusing for small kids—unless, of course, you're intending to make them believe fully in Santa as the bringer of gifts. It pairs very nicely with the movie.2017: Again, chosen reader of the book for work storytime. :)
This book will forever remind me of my kids when they were young and their eyes still sparkled with the magic of Christmas. The illustrations are beautiful and makes me want to watch the movie. ( My kids love the train and the hot chocolate song in the movie.)
Chris Van Allsburg’s illustrations are extremely beautiful and magical, especially of the images of the North Pole with its city like lights and the beautiful image of all the elves gathering at the center of the city.
“The Polar Express” is truly one of the greatest masterpieces in children’s literature ever created as children will enjoy the experience of looking at the North Pole from a child’s perspective and enjoy the beautiful illustrations of the North Pole itself.
4 saoCuốn sách có nội dung hết sức đơn giản nhưng đọc xong mình đã có một sự cảm động sâu sắc trước tình cảm và niềm yêu quý của tác giả đối với sự hồn nhiên trong trẻo của trẻ thơ.
Đọc với tâm hồn trong trẻo của trẻ thơ bạn sẽ dễ dàng cảm nhận được những gì tác giả nhắn nhủ.Đọc cuốn này xong làm mình nhớ đến câu trích từ một tấm lòng yêu con trẻ khác.
I believe I fall into this category that if I watch something and I felt okay about it but then they start playing everywhere and people are going crazy for it thats when I hate it (that has happened to me for Finding Nemo, Shark Tale, How the Grinch Stole Christmas and the list goes on).After years and distance away from "The Polar Express" I am able to read this classic christmas book and actually enjoy it.
I think Bad Day at Riverbend is a top 5 picture book for me, and his art style is great, and he can often tell a fun story (last year's Probuditi a great example).But holy crap do I hate The Polar Express.It's like Love You Forever - tacky, sentimental pap designed to get you to shed a tear or tug on your heartstrings or whatever.
Fairies and princesses are fun, the pony thing is weird, but okay, and I was a potty humor kid myself, but of all the things to catch on...But no, actually, that's not the worst part.
The movie (which was mediocre) was one thing, but the gift set with the sleigh bell?
This will always remain one of my favorite Christmas stories. This was my first time listening to it on audiobook and it was just magical! The sound effects of the train really brought the story to life. The sweet message gets me every time. It's such a simple and beautifully written book.
I wanted to see what the big deal was. I think my expectations were too high.However, the illustrator did an amazing job at showing realism through animated drawings. It made me feel like I was actually on The Polar Express.
This is such a charming story and I've seen the film too - very sweet.
I complied.Well, they'd both seen the movie - the older one had seen it several times - but they sat on either side of me, watching me read.
Yes, they sometimes watch ME to make sure I say all the words.
"The movie is dark, too," commented my older grandson.When I read the part about 'believing,' the younger one said, "You HAVE to believe.""Yes, to hear the bell," the older one added.It was a charming moment on a dark afternoon reading the dark pages of this wonderful, short, but striking book.
Glad they found it.
Glad I read it.
Read this, what seems forever ago.
Usually if I've read a book and saw the movie, which is rare to happen, I highly favor one over the other, however this one runs pretty equal for both.
The Book was one of the many losses from four years ago (will I ever get over that?
Not even a Christmas tree in my house this year (2015) so all the Winter, Christmas books and movies are both making me cry happy and ripping my heart out this year, but I'll continue to live vicariously through them.
Torture and happy.
A very special read.
This is one of my Christmas favorites.This story is about a boy whose friend has insisted that there is no Santa, and who is struggling to retain his belief in the "magic" of Christmas.
While abed, awake and alert for the sound of a bell from Santa's sleigh, he hears a different sound -- that of a train...
a train heading for the North Pole.It's a short book and I don't want to reveal too much, but I will paraphrase a line from the book the line that most speaks for me: Though I've grown old, I haven't let go of the magic -- I still believe!
Opening as a young boy lies in his bed one Christmas Eve night, eagerly waiting for the sound of Santa's reindeer, it spins a fantastic tale involving a train ride north, on the Polar Express, an encounter with Santa Claus, and a special gift that allows the young boy to keep the spirit of the season alive all of his life...So many of the scenes here are simply breathtaking, with such adept use of light and shadow, such a lovely color palette, and such a rich feeling of depth and texture, that's it's difficult to pick just one favorite!
Although, it is no more than 32 pages and mostly filled with illustrations, the story stands strong in itself and in our memories after reading it.A boy is awakened on Christmas Eve by a train that is on its way to the North Pole.
The story is beautifully illustrated, while reading it you can almost see the snow fall, feel the heat from the thousands of lights and hear the sound of the bells from Santa's sleigh.I knew that I could have any gift I could imagine.
What I wanted more than anything was one silver bell from Santa’s sleigh.The main character, the young boy, only has one wish.
