https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/265703.Pedagogical_Sketchbook
It’s below (it appears on page 30 in the book), although it means less when taken out of context:It was on the basis of inner necessity, as exemplified in plant growth, that both Kandinsky and his friend and fellow-teacher, Paul Klee, founded their famous ‘point-line to plane’ theories of form production.
Initially the line is directed earthwards, though not to dwell there, only to draw energy thence for reaching up into the air.‘The point of origin between soil and atmosphere stretches out, and the generalized plant image becomes tree, root, trunk, crown.
Let us learn: The whole form results from a single base, the base of inner necessity.
I was expecting a book similar to Alber's 'Interaction of Color', but this one is even more abstract, if that's possible.
I wanted to read some of his diaries and classroom notes because I watched a documentary that showed glimpses of the sheer amount that he wrote, and I'd like to hear WHY he did what he did with his art.
So this is his class notes on line and motion.
What you decide to do next with his 'taking a line for a walk', or the abstract diagrams in this book, is up to you.
Sitting among my collection of textbooks and other recommended readings from school, Klee's slender treatise is the one book I was never able to dig into over the course of my university years, despite being by far the thinnest and many would say "fluffiest"of the lot.After resolving to sit down and give the book a fair shot, with a (very) open mind, I've been pleasantly surprised at the insights I've been able to glean.
Truth be told, the majority of the book still reads like a foreign language to me, a mess of lines with superimposed text sometimes so far divorced from the so-called "diagrams" neighbouring it that I glide through page after page completely lost.
Ok. Let's talk about Pedagogical Sketchbook.
Here Klee does for the line wht Kundera tries to do for the novel in The Art of the Novel.
Pedagogical Sketchbook is the place where Klee gives a drawing lesson, and defines the meanings and implications of different lines.
He also gives lessons in perspective drawing, and on how to think about images.
He does this through drawings which are scattered throughout the text.
Though this is a picture book, it's an extremely challenging one.
Please talk to me about Pedagogical sketchbook if you have read it.
If you own it, and understand more about it, let's communicate.
Interesting sketches, especially mathematical renderings of art and physics. The only thing is, however, that they are too sketchy and brief to the Klee layman. Nevertheless, I have noted few quick commonalities in his examples: closure; when do time and space matter and when do they not? - e.g. the linear and planar effects of a line and the non-directional, infinite circular movement (more to follow).
Small book packed with big ideas. It is a book that you will slowly digest, savoring every page. I would recommend exploring the ideas - draw the ideas. Once I captured the idea of progression, active and passive, the text became alive. An excellent and changing book.
a book that can never be finished as it opens the door for endless exploration and thinking
Thinking about it this book has shaped everything I have done since
I wonder how his lines relate to lines of 3 dimensional movement
Solid 3.5. Had this on my bookshelf for a few years after picking up a used copy. Finally read it and did find some interesting points.
I learnt that everything is best approached from first principles.
Wonderful. Eye-opening.
One of the few books that actually made me "see" things from a different perspective. Paul Klee is one of the forgotten masters of modern design.
what a strange little book. originally intended as a course in design theory at the Bauhaus.
To stand despite all possibilities to fall
lines are more interesting than planes, i kept thinking. sometimes, too logical for me; other times, too woo woo. also, i could tell the whole active-medial-passive thing was gonna culminate in masculine-active, feminine-passive zzzzs. but! some nice concepts, like: "one bone alone achieves nothing", "the eye travels the path the work cuts out for it" (but does it want to?), "the vertical describes the logical direction of the plane", "horizontality is either actuality or supposition". line theory, check. color theory: gonna go real deep. josef alders & beyond!
Methodological conceptualization of Klee's artistic process supplemented with practical illustrations. The book begins with the most primary elements and progresses through successively more complex forms.
it's a picture book, with words. Lecture notes. I need to listed to it to understand notes better...
Not what i was looking for but interesting. looking for more about his progression of shapes.
