https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/180377.Dance_Night
I now plan on reading all of Dawn Powell's works.
This book takes place at the turn of the century and is filled with beautifully complex characters and a vivid picture of American in this era.
Powell was able to capture the mixture of emotions, desires and failures of each of her characters while keeping them interesting and identifiable.
She really captured true yearning.
Every character was yearning for something more and in the end you're left with a desire for more yourself.
I highly recommend her writing to any with a love of true literature.
"But Lil had that quality which had struck him from the first in Jen, a quality of not belonging to the place where was at this moment, of belonging to the place for which she was reaching. This mystified and held him."
(Books such as this remind me of George Gissing, a Victorian novelist who remains too little known, and who depicted somewhat similar scenes and people in London.)The two primary characters in the novel are Morry Abott a young man on the verge of adulthood and Jen St. Clair, a young girl just beginning adolescence who has been adopted from an orphanage.
Morry, in particular, seems based upon Powell herself (she generally uses male protagonists in her books that I have read) and the frustrations she experienced in the rural midwest and her dream of a life of glamor, freedom, and adventure (sexual and otherwise) in New York.In the novel, Morry lives with his mother who runs a small woman's hat shop, the Bon Ton. The father is a travelling salesman and mostly absent.
Several women (women and girls get most of Powell's sympathy) do achieve financial success and some real control in their lives, but not without cost.Dance Night is kept from the depths of despair by characters' small victories, and also by Powell's tone, which can move convincingly from bitter to sardonic to affectionate.
Hermann always loved preserved peaches.
You can do them all when I get back.’ That’s your good husband, let me tell you, girls.”______At the end of the drive was a huge old brick house....
This is another of Dawn Powell's Ohio series which are set in rural small towns much as she was raised in.
The setting here is a few years prior to World War I and the town is Lamptown where the work is in factories for gas-light fittings and ironworks.
The draw for the town is the weekly dance class held at the ballroom above the Bauer Chop House.
Powell writes the rural novel with her own history and knowledge as the key to making this story feel so natural and alive.
She doesn't shy way from truths or despairs and the characters own flaws.
Loved it!!! Reminds me of F. Scott Fitzgerald, but more knowing and more observant.
This made me nostalgic for my gone mom and dad, because it reminded me of the world their parents and they lived in.
The Midwest, in the 1920s, when there were factories, and houses you could buy with the salary you made working a factory job.
Morry and Jenn sat on the stairs and talked about their dreams, what they'd do when they grew up.
Morry's mom dreamed of the dancing instructor taking her in his arms, and morry's travelling-salesman Father came home every three months and ruined the peace.
Dance Night : ¡4,25 estrellas!Dance Night es una novela corta, sin capítulos, profunda y brillante.La historia transcurre en Lamptown, un pequeño pueblo de Ohio, Estados Unidos, y en pleno cambio de siglo. En este lugar, donde todos se conocen y las cosas parecen casi predecibles, comienza a respirarse ese aire de querer cambiar, de tener mayores ambiciones que ser un trabajador ferroviario, trabajar en la fábrica, vender sombreros en una tienda, ser una criada o ser moza en un bar para toda la
: ¡4,25 estrellas!Dance Night es una novela corta, sin capítulos, profunda y brillante.La historia transcurre en Lamptown, un pequeño pueblo de Ohio, Estados Unidos, y en pleno cambio de siglo.
Cada uno de los personajes sabe que desea y puede ser algo más en su vida, y que sus sueños pueden hacerse realidad, pero no son enteramente conscientes de ello.
(hide spoiler)].Dance Night es una historia magnífica, donde la verdadera trama la escriben los personajes, y la autora los describe de forma magnífica.
Dawn Powell is charting some of the psychic material that led to her departure from small-town origins to New York City, especially in the character of the young, feisty orphan Jan. It's not an easy course, and in the 5 or 6 years that transpire in this novel, she follows the lives of three principal characters, all of them seeking more of life than what their small town offers.
Dreams and aspirations are both seductive and illusory motivations for a bigger, better life, especially when their actual knowledge of what lies over the horizon is so limited.
Dawn Powell wrote a sharp and lively description of small town America, remarkable for its lack of cliché.
Particularly, the shamelessness and hypocrisy brought on by isolation and limited opportunity rang true.
The hero of the story, passing through those golden years of eighteen to twenty, is a lad glutted on estrogen, escaping to his room or his books.
As a feminist text, the book is still provocative, suggesting the superficiality of engendered morals, and making a mockery of romance and virtue.
For a woman born in the last century, Dawn Powell had clear view.
Why, oh why, did no one introduce me to Dawn Powell earlier in my academic/reading career?
This is her fourth novel, but the first one she felt positively about (considering it her best work from a vantage point late in her life) and it is truly remarkable.
AND Powell creates a thoroughly believable adolescent character (rare even these days in adult fiction, but rarer still in 1930).
The ending is ambiguous, which has its good and bad points, but benefits the reader by encouraging reflection and speculation about what will happen finally to her characters.
This a truly wonderful novel.
Dawn Powell is a highly accomplished novelist who wrote a string of excellent novels in the 1930's and 1940's.
Her work is not as well known as it should be.
I have read several other novels by her and this is one of her earlier works.
Powell wrote the novel in the 1930's and in someways it is almost old fashioned but the problems her characters encounter and their subtle interactions with each other are strikingly contemporary.
I would recommend that you start with a Powell novel set in New York City like Turn Magic Wheel but try anything by Powell
FIRST LINE REVIEW: "What Morry heard above the Lamptown night noises was a woman's high voice rocking on mandolin notes far far away." And that's where Morry spends the next 200 pages trying to get...far far away, but somehow, without leaving Lamptown. This is a claustrophobic book that digs under the skin of odd and not terribly likable characters. Consequently, while I was curious to see where Powell was taking us, I was never really satisfied with where we ended up. Kinda like the characters in this slim, early novel from the 1930's.
Dawn Powell? Most have never heard of her. I never did until I happened upon this amazing portrayal of small-town American life in the early 1900s. The characters were as real as if I were there in the room with them. I could feel what they were thinking and going through in their minds. The situations are painted so clearly I could imagine the emotional impact. When I finished, I couldn’t believe that it took me so long to come across this work.
Dance Night is a well-written novel, set in the Depression, in a dingy, Ohio factory town with little to offer residents in fun, housing, or aspiring careers. I’ve loved many depressing, even heart-wrenching books, so I’m not sure why Dance Night didn’t really click for me. I usually love coming of age stories, too, but suppose what I usually regard as the hopefulness of youth felt more like false bravado in this case. I didn’t believe the young people were going to escape.
Read in Novels, 1930-1942. One of Dawn Powell's earlier novels. A depressing coming-of-age story in a small Ohio town during the early 1900s.
A great book -- especially if you ever need a reminder of why it sucks to be a teenager. As usual, the character development in this book is fantastic, and there are no easy moral answers or lessons.
Beautifully written story about desperate, small-town (Ohio) striving for what we don't have, whether it's love, money, or culture (or all three), and the way life always seems to get in the way of obtaining these things.
Lively narrative, vivid descriptions, and excellent grasp of social issues that were pertinent to the era in which it was set. I truly was sad to finish this book.
A sad wistful and very enjoyable view of small town America in the 1910's ish.
All the plot in Dawn Powell's novels happens inside people's heads. She should be required reading.
This book was interesting, it held my attention, but her diaries are better than her fiction.
I've never met a writer from Ohio who failed to fill me with a deep sense of luke-warmth.
