https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/468713.The_Case_of_the_Dangerous_Dowager
An elderly woman came to Perry Mason for consultation (I sound exactly like Al Bundy from Married with Children describing the plot of the books of the series, do I not?)Anyhow, the woman thought her favorite granddaughter Sylvia was in big trouble.
This is where Mason came in: he was to procure these documents as discreetly as possible.
He not only beat the odds and cleared the innocent person's name, but also paved a way for her to get even more money to gamble away as nobody cared about Sylvia's addiction.
She appears in Perry Mason's office and asks Mason to get possession of some I.O.U.s that her granddaughter has foolishly given the owners of a gambling ship that sails just beyond the twelve-mile limit where law enforcement can't reach them.The task seems simple enough, but as everyone who reads this series understands, complications are bound to ensue.
Sure enough, Perry's initial attempt to get the notes, while very clever, goes astray.
Even worse, Perry winds up a fugitive from justice himself as he attempts to untangle what would appear to be an impossible locked room mystery.
Another absolute winner. This one features the intriguing world of offshore gambling barges in 1930's Los Angeles.
This wasn't the first Perry Mason I've read but it's the first I've read in donkey's years so I didn't know if I'd like it. Well I did. It was fast moving and the mystery was interesting and intricate. Incidentally, as I was reading, I pictured Mason as he was portrayed by the actor Warren William and not Raymond Burr. I don't have anything against Burr, I just like Warren William better.https://warrenwilliam.comI think he made a top notch Perry Mason.
A few Perry Masons back I stopped writing reviews, mainly because the books, while highly entertaining, were formulaic and subsequently my reviews would be simple repetition. This is still true, but I thought I would check in to say still reading the occasional Perry, taking them chronologically, and still enjoying them.
This was purely detective fiction. First Mason Mystery among the ones I have read till now, that doesn't have a court scene. Too much emphasis on the red herring too, with too many shady smarties.
Now here's a novelty among Perry Mason mysteries--a locked doory mystery. There's a murder on a gambling ship anchored miles off the shoreline. So, there's a limited mumber of suspects all on the boat. Matilda Benson is one of Gardner's more delightful creations--a feisty dowager who smokes cigars, speaks bluntly and is a tough old bird. This 1937 mystery never reaches a courtroom, but you won't miss it because it's so quickly paced and filled with colorful suspects.
A very different Perry Mason mystery. For one thing, there's no dramatic courtroom scene. The murder takes place on a gambling boat, and is somewhat of a locked room mystery. Much too complex and complicated to figure out, so don't try. Just enjoy. Detective Paul Drake actually makes a play for Della Street in one scene, so I guess Gardner's main characters aren't ALL sexless!
Good mystery. I was surprised by the ending. However, Mason's antics sometimes make me a bit nervous. I'm clearly more lawful than he is.
***.This is a confusing case from Gardner, involving a proud, cigar-smoking grandmother who is protecting her granddaughter from being caught and revealed as a addicted gambler.
She ended up providing IOUs worth $7,500 to the owners of the casino to cover her losses.
The grandmother was the driving force for most of the action in this episode, which, unlike every other Gardner mystery I’ve read, did not contain a court scene.
Mason has to solve an apparent murder of one of the casino owners without becoming more involved than he was – no small feat.
Certainly fun, though this strikes me as being less that Gardner's best work.A plus is that a number of the characters (Sam Greib, Charley Duncan, Frank Oxman) are better developed that we see in the earlier books of this series.
And Matilda Benson, the 68-year-old cigar-smoking widow who can look like a 50+ year old in a slinky silver gown, is the first memorable character Gardner has produced (I am reading the books in order).
And I keep wondering how Paul Drake has apparently unlimited manpower.There are some firsts here.
But these are fast reads and fun in their way.
Liked it, but prefer when he actually enters a courtroom.
DNF really?
It starts when an elderly, cigar-smoking lady (Matilda Benson) enters Perry’s office and asks him to somehow recover the gambling IOUs that her granddaughter (Sylvia Oxman) has written to pay off her gambling debts.
His story appears to implicate Mason, but when Drake and Mason confront him, Belgrade is apologetic, and while Drake wants to fire and blacklist him, Mason prevents it.
That policy proves to be the correct one, as eventually, Mason determines how the murder was committed and Belgrade’s testimony helps convince the authorities that Mason is innocent.
he is at his best in this one.When his first attempt to pay off the gambling attempt and collect the IOUs goes horribly wrong, Perry knows that it's only a matter of time before he ends up in trouble.
When on his second attempt he finds the holder of those IOUs dead and his clients granddaughter standing over the body, Perry knows he's in big trouble.
He quickly takes control of the situation, gets her out of there, and arranges things as best he can to protect both the granddaughter and his client.Unfortunately for Perry, the authorities take his misleading too mean one of two things.
I'm a fan of Perry Mason mysteries.
There's the dowager, her granddaughter with a gambling problem, and he soon to be ex-husband who wants custody of their child, really so he can gain control of the child's trust fund.
Mason of course solves the case and exonerates the dowager and her granddaughter.
At one point, to show that he hasn't hidden anything connected to the case, he insists on being strip searched.
Of course the ashes of the evidence that everyone is seeking is combined with chewing gum which Mason vigorously chews all the while he's being searched.
CAST OF CHARACTERS MATILDA BENSON-She drinks, swears, smokes cigars, and is something of a fighter D
In fact, I got the impression that in order to pad this book out to novel length, Gardner packed in long descriptions of events and legal activity for word count.
In the end, the story and its clever twists got lost in the technicalities.
And at the end of of this one, Mason would have absolutely been disbarred for his extra-legal activities, having pushed the envelope far beyond the point of breaking.So a clever story marred by extra padding and taking things a bit too far, not his best work.
There was not nearly enough of the titular character, because she was a sassy old broad and I quite liked her.But anyway, this was a wonderfully atmospheric installment, with the foggy beach town, the garishly-lit amusement pier, and Mason, with overcoat over his dress clothes, taking a speedboat out to the bright lights of the gambling ship, anchored just twelve miles offshore.
I am sad to report that you won't see the like in Santa Monica Bay any more.I might also add that Mason and Ms Street are beginning to become quite an item.
Matilda Benson hires Mason to buy back or at least somehow get rid of her niece's IOUs, which are owed to a floating casino.
Mason sets upon the task, but then one of the casino owners turns up dead, and now he must save the niece from being blamed for the murder.
It was different somehow from the other Mason books I've read in that it was a locked room mystery and seemed almost impossible for Mason to crack the case.
Matilda was a good character because she was strong and didn't wait for Mason to fix all the problems - although her actions also caused some issues to arise for Mason to solve!

#10 in the Perry Mason series.
This entry gets high marks for ingenuity in what appears to be a 'locked room', boat on the high seas, mystery.Perry Mason series - When Matilda Benson solicits the help of Perry Mason, her request seems simple enough: cruise to a gambling ship moored just beyond the twelve-mile limit and buy back the IOUs signed by Miss Benson's niece.
But after Mason reaches the floating casino, he discovers problems aplenty--most notably the ship's owner with a bullet hole through his head.
Strangely enough, Matilda and her niece are also on board that night .
Does Perry Mason's client have something to hide?
It's hard to give Perry Mason anything less than a stellar review, but this one (and oldie from 1937) was a doozie. Very complicated with new information turning up at the last moment. Hard to see how anyone could have cracked the case before Perry reveals the final information. Again, some borderline un-PC slang is used.
This was a typical basic Mason story. Not a lot of danger for any of the participants, and most of the action takes place in conversational form in an office or hotel room or apartment. There's a bit of snooping around by Mason and Drake, ingenuity and inventiveness by Della, and Mason's deductive conclusion. But it's an entertaining quick read if you enjoy this sort of thing.
What an amazing read! Funny, amusing, and fast-paced with an unexpected resolution (I was smiling at the way the everything was resolved and Mr. Mason's comments didn't help). Although, it's more of a 4.5 stars because a few (very few) bits dragged on and some parts were repeated, but it was fun solving the case alongside sassy Perry Mason.
An early adventure of the loose cannon lawyer who plays by his own rules. While it strains credulity that someone, no matter how stupid, would toss away a gun after a murder when that gun had nothing to do with the murder it's always amusing to see Perry Mason run rings around law enforcement and somehow get away with it.
A somewhat unusual Perry Mason novel. Compare the cruise ship scene in this book with a similar scene in Raymond Chandler's Farewell My Lovely. Chandler does it better, but the setting for this Gardner book is a variation off his usual. Still, if you like Perry Mason novels, as I do, it works.
This is a locked-room mystery that's a little different from your typical Perry Mason mystery. And it's early enough in the series that Mason still plays it a little more fast-and-loose than later cases.
Perry Mason is hired to take a cruise on a gambling ship and buy back the IOUs of a young woman. The problem that Mason haas to deal with is the discovery of the ship's owner dead from a bullet to the head. This is a satisfying mystery read.
This was a good story, but I just don't care for the style of writing. It's too terse for me and not my "cup of tea". It's good to read the old classics once in awhile, though. I always enjoyed the Perry Mason shows on TV.
