https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/287498.Children_of_the_Lens
The four daughters have only their brother Kit and, to some extent, their father Kim as their male equals.
It’s been 100 years since the beginning of WWI, and we’re just starting to see a more nuanced history of that event starting to spread into popular culture, replacing the good guys and bad guys with military guys on both sides.
Science fiction has come a long way, too, in the ensuing 50+ years and we enjoy the products of that progress.This is my 148th book read from the NPR list of great science fiction and fantasy.
Smith’s strength lies in his ability to convey the vastness of Time and Space, his premise being that billions of years ago a race of humanoids – The Arisians - was born in our galaxy and evolved far beyond the point at which humanity now stands.
This idea of selectively breeding humans rather puts a dent into the concept of Arisians as benign Guardians of Democracy, and although one can argue that it was the Arisians’ only option, it is never really addressed as a moral issue within the text.
The technology and weapons are now at the ridiculous level (super luminal planets traveling down hyper tubes from Nth space dimension to literally obliterate an entire solar system from existence).
The children of the lens, a single male and two sets of female twins, the product of the Red and Grey lensmen marriage, form a hyper intelligent bond called "The Unit", whose powers even Mentor of Arisia cannot fathom.
The previous book's energy and ability to surprise lagged somewhat, but this book saves the series from losing its momentum. How many stories have a loving husband and wife and their responsible children saving the galaxy? I lost track of which daughter was which, but their snappy patter and interplay make this an entertaining and worthwhile continuation of the LENSMAN series.
Only 50% of the way through this random inheritance, but I have already decided that I now need to go and purchase the whole series from the start. A new (old...?) favourite Sci-Fi author of mine, for sure.
I really should have started with an earlier book in the series, but this was the one in the opshop...I have fond memories of reading some of the author's books in high school and I have to say, I think a lot of future sci-fi writers and movie/TV creators were inspired by this writer.
The story arc is huge and spans generations.
Heheheh!) I still finished the book even though it had some pages missing and is the 6th in a series.
That is high praise!
It is a little dated and sexist, but what do you expect from an author born in 1890?
I won't lie, Triplanetary (The first) was a little rough for me at the start, and the prose of the entire series isn't all that spectacular (it's ancient space opera, what do you expect?) but for someone with a love of space opera, and all that space opera entails...I laughed with joy reading this series.
Not a laughter of humor, or disdain, but joy at the sheer audacity of the story and characters.
If you happen to be a fan of the anime Tengen Toppa Gurren Lagann, you know what this is like.Read this series.
"Und now, mit zere heimliche übermenschliche powers, ze all-Aryan children of ze pure Kinnison bloodline vill rid ze universe of ze plutocratic communist Jewish Eddorian scum! Jawohl, ze Final Solution! Shall I tell you vot happens? All ze, how you say, gory details?""Oh yes uncle Adolf... I mean E.E. Doc! Yes please!"
This is actually about the whole Lensman series. I found the books to be greatly engaging. I read them first as a child, then read them again in my 30's, then my 40's. Sure some (a lot) of the science is out to lunch now, but it is still a good action read.
personally i didn't like it as much as the others because it felt repetitive and did not have as much content as the last 5 in the series.
Okay, granted, the final chapter is titled "The Power of Love" but that's mostly just amusingly goofy, plus it's balanced out by the wonderfully ludicrous nature of the final ultimate trap that Eddore tried to dispose of our main hero Kimball Kinnison with (it involved hurling him naked through a random series of alternate universes in permanent and theoretically irrecoverable exile, which of course he's recovered from by the power of loove.) It was also balanced out by relief that all the skirting and dancing about and not-subtle hints that there was to be a whole lot of incest in the Lenskids' future--being that they're the ultimate physical and mental form of humanity and all, and the kids of Adam and Eve needed to breed with someone!--was not what the concluding chapter was actually about.

The climactic finale of the Lensman series, this one continues on where the others left off.
Civilization is in a tremendous battle for supremacy of two galaxies.
The Lensmen are the force of Civilization, and the Kinnison Family is the ultimate in evolution of the Lensmen.
Only by developing their full potential and working together will they be able to conquer, but can they do it in time?If you liked the others in the series, this one is a great climax.
The book (as do the others in the series) presume a hyperspeed pace of action but include enough new ideas to keep one occupied.
Fun to reread, or rather to listen to again.
I own both the audiobook, and also a rather old paperback copy somewhere.
This is the end of the serie.
EE Doc Smith did write another book in the series, but that is not a continuation of this book, but another story in the same universe.
There exist also some stories like that written by others.Some suspension of disbelieve is needed, in this book as in the full series.
Smith uses some physics, and that is clearly dated.
That does not make it a bad story, just makes is light reading.I'll probably come back to this, sometime...
My dad lent me Starship Troopers after I watched the movie with him. If I remember correctly I believe he stated "Those aren't Gorilla Suits!", followed by him dashing into the attic. Later that night, not being able to sleep due to his rummaging above my ceiling, I went up and asked him what he was doing. "Finding you the book!" was his response, and later that night I started reading my first science-fiction book. Needless to say I developed an appetite for them, and this was his next recommendation.
Sporadically enjoyable but by this point in the series the breathless style has worn out its welcome. The introduction of the children is a breath of fresh air that keeps the story from being tedious, but the revelation of the main antagonists of the series is clumsy and they go from being unknown to defeated in way too little time to feel like an imminent threat. This series was a huge influence on science fiction, but its successors in the genre really surpassed it in every respect.
Great story but e-conversion needs editingI first fell in love with this book in college reading it before any of the others. I have read it so many times that , it wasn't hard to spot the missing chunk out of chapter 8 and the many misspellings even if the result of character recognition was a correct word but not the word for that context. I highly recommend that readers choose a used paperback until this e-conversion has been edited.
In true space opera style this wraps everything up just a little too neatly to be believable, but if it didnt, it wouldnt really be space opera now would it?The things that had been impossible and unthinkable for the first 5 volumes are accomplished in a whirl by a few extra talented kids zipping around the bad guys home planets and lancing them with mental bolts too strong to be resisted. Still worthwhile to me though.
What there's more? You'd be forgiven for thinking that this marked the end of the Lensman series, there's still one more on my shelf to read though. Great flow in this story, somehow the last quarter or less of the book packed in more and more. I thought I was on the wind down a few times only to have another jolt. Brilliant.
Finally!!Once again, e.e. doc writes in an older style. To make matters worse, he tends to be verbose and uses many really obscure words. Worst of all, this last installment continues with numerous typos and apparent editorial errors. All in all, while remaining classic sci-fi, the series, as it stands, is cumbersome and difficult to read.
The sixth and surprisingly not last book in the lensman series brought together all of the threads from the first five books and led to the anticipated conclusion of the series. I am a little bit confused as to what the next book could add.
I find myself wishing half-stars were possible in the setup here. This book pretty much had the best and worst of all the prior books, chronology-wise. Plenty of excitement, but also largely deterministic. But wow, what they do to dispose of some of their enemies!
The sixth and last book in the Lensman series brought together all of the threads from the first five books and led to the anticipated conclusion of the series. There are lots of related books in the Lensman universe. Seek them out for more fun in space.
As good as the rest. What a great series.
Despite its outdated scientific and social (read gender) ideas, it's still a very good read.
I read this one a LONG time ago. The Lensman series is a classic which I periodically go back and reread. Love it!
I was pretty disappointed with this book. Maybe because I did not read the five preceding books in the series? I usually enjoy Sci-Fi quite a bit but this one had trouble holding my interest.
The final chapter in the Lensman series. The children of the Lens take the fight to the space pirates and their other worldly masters.
See my review of First Lensman.
Best of the series.
