https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/492243.Claudine_s_House
Life is not a plot leading to a logical and dramatic climax and a satisfying conclusion.
Life is what happens while "they lived (un)happily ever after".
Life is the excentricity of your neighbours or your cat.
It is realising the scandal that your 8-year-old daughter still can't sew.
It is staring at your old, functionless hands and being surprised that the ones you knew and trusted to serve you, the fast-moving competent ones from your early twenties, have disappeared.It is arguing and bickering and staying together anyway.
I think you will remember it as time well lived.

A beautifully written, nostalgic portrayal of a rural French childhood, in Claudine's House Colette introduces us to her world, her family, their pets and the countryside which was her playground.Full review here: http://heavenali.wordpress.com/2014/0...
Really as amazing as everyone reports. The senses are awakened reading this ... I only wish I were able to read it in the original French.
A wistful memoir of a bucolic childhood idyll—or part of Colette’s Claudine cycle, who knows—this slim volume contains vignettes of French provincial life (Colette’s French provincial life), with emphasis on the lush countryside, sneaky cats and dogs, passing aunts and uncles, and formidable French mothers. Each remembrance is crafted like a flawless short story: precious, warm, intelligent and softly heartbreaking. Far from being magical, often these stories take dark and melancholy turns, especially as time passes and Colette takes over as maman of the estate. A delightful volume from Hesperus Press.
This is one of my all time favorite books.
As Collette describes her simple rural life surrounded by fammily and pets, I feel like I'm a secret observer of a life of exquisite beauty and charm, and what seems so nautural to her seems so fascinating and exotic to me.
This book embodies so many things I love: a simple day to day life, details of a loving family, animals & nature, humor, and beauty everywhere.
It's out of print now, and I had to order it online so that I could share this beauty with my daughter.
Charming little book based on recollections of Collette's life in the French countryside. Seen in short vignettes, we see her as a child, as a teenager, & as an adult with her own children through these memories of family, neighbors, pets, etc. Easy to read, wryly funny in places, & written with love, I'm glad it was on my challenge list, or I would never have thought to read it :)
Free download available at Project Gutenberg.
A beautiful, poetic childhood story of the little girl that was to become Colette. I read it years ago (and I mean, years !), yet it's one book that always comes to my mind when I think of my favorites of all time : first Jane Eyre, then Claudine's house. No third.I love the small town story, but most of all, I could feel the countryside, the house, nature all jumping up from the page, I felt immersed in it. Such a beautiful, beautiful novel, beautiful storytelling, beautiful everything...
Sometimes books can you make you angry or frustrated, can make you stressed or induce loathing. This book reminds you how grateful you are to be alive, gives life and all it's small pleasures a new meaning. What a joy and a triumph for the author. Looking forward to bumping into her again.
It’s not like any of Colette’s books I’ve read before.
It is the first of the Claudine series that was not written under the close supervision of Willy, her first husband and it’s remarkably not licentious.On the contrary, it’s poetic and lyrical, plotless, more a series of sketches than a novel per se.One wonders whether chapters appeared (or were intended to appear) as short pieces for the press before being joined in this book.
Nevertheless I don’t regret having read it, even though left to myself I wouldn’t have chosen it above the millions of books I have yet to read.
J'ai trouvé ce livre léger, poétique et assez agréable à lire, mais en même temps, plutôt oubliable.
Il est évident que Colette prenait grand plaisir à utiliser des mots très précis et lyriques pour tout décrire dans les moindres détails.
La plupart du temps, je suis attiré dans un livre par une belle écriture.
Mais pour la plupart, pas d'intrigue, et vraiment pas de point de vue sur les histoires autres que d'être de jolis petits moments de sa vie.
Des pages et des pages de très belles descriptions qui flottent sur la page comme une peinture impressionniste, et absolument rien ne se passe.
Luego de una semana, al fin terminé este pequeño libro, "La Maison de Claudine" de Colette.
Y aunque he de admitir que mi nivel de francés me la puso difícil y tuve que usar el diccionario más veces de las que habría querido, disfruté de su lectura de lo lindo.Colette logra proyectar inocencia pero picardía en cada uno de sus relatos.
Se presenta a si misma sin reservas y a su madre como un personaje lleno de matices y evidentemente querido por la autora.Muchos de sus relatos me hicieron soltar carcajadas.
A beautifully written little book that presents life seen by a child circa 1870-1880. According to Nicole Ferrier-Caverivière: "Colette, Claudine : deux prénoms que l'on assemble spontanément, deux vraies "twins" aux yeux du grand public." probably tells us all. The chapters can be grouped around certains themes:. Sido: her mother. Her father. Her siblings. The animals: the dogs and the catsShe described all the elements that made her childhood happy.
Моё первое знакомство с Колетт, прошло достаточно неожиданно. Я не ожидала такой нежной прозы. Автор явно с большой любовью отправляется во времена своего детства, а также детства своей дочери. Она с большой любовью отзывается о простом быте в своей семье, рассказывает забавные случаи и описывает своих любимых животных. При этом, поймите меня правильно, эта нежность не вязнет на зубах, это не слащавый сироп, а нежность сильного человека в минуту ностальгии.
...
An absolutely wonderful masterpiece. Colette and her splendor. The delight of words, nothing but the delight of words takes us into a world of exquisite flavors, incomparable details, unshakeable precision of writing. A lyrical writing, based in a setting of countryside and delicious nature. And, as always, overlooked by a passing time and childhood memories. Page after page, we are ecstatic with the choice of vocabulary always more varied, intense, and at the same time light. Colette is divine. And this book breathes life. Life past, but life in spite of everything.
When I read the book jacket I was pleasantly surprised to know that this is the author that wrote Gigi.
"In an idyllic countryside woodland setting, Colette spent her childhood surrounded by a warm and loving family.
Years later, her memories and experiences inspired her to create a series of snapshots of the innocence of provincial life.
The book reads like short stories and does not have a plot but the stories do string together to show her childhood.
I am inspired To-read Gigi.
I read it in French so I’m sure I didn’t understand every little nuance but I managed to grasp the big picture. I liked these childhood memories. They have this innocent, child-like, adventurous quality about them (and the stories about the animals are sometimes really cute) but on the other hand, there’s a certain tone of sadness in some stories, especially when the narrator talks about her mother or about the relationship between her parents.
Quite pleasant but somewhat slight. This didn't feel like a novel to me at all but rather a collection of reminiscences. Some about the house, some about her mother, some on her brothers but also the cats and dogs. I am not sure that it has any significant characters to understand or follow and certainly no plot. Pleasant reading but I fear very forgettable.
Kaleidoscopic memories of her childhood: her home village, mother, father, brothers and sisters and especially the parental home and the animals. Very engrossingly described, detailed, in difficult French. Intimistic.
Léger et agréable à lire, comme souvent les romans de Colette.
Sublimissime.
A few of these stories I already read in the Short Stories Collection. But as always very enjoyable.
So beautiful and nostalgic. Some of it reminds me of my childhood summer's days.
Also known as My Mother's House, this is a beautifully written collection of stories that are as vivid as they are beautiful.
Merveilleuse langue
J'ai seulement lu La maison de Claudine, il n'y avait pas le livre exact dans la liste.
