https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/865678.The_Cry_of_the_Halidon
A little apart from Ludlum's normal spy and action capers as it centers on the development of Jamaica and all the interested parties motives and actions that align and differ in numerous ways throughout.
At the middle of it all are a few British suveyists (geologist and other types) ostensably there to survey a big portion of unsettled land, but really serving as the lynch pin of multinational corporation plans, native Jamaicans who have their own feeling on how their country's resources should be handled, the British Government, and the titular group of "ghosts" who really control everything.
Marvelous imagery. Subtle. I’m jealous. Too much of a good thing gets boring, however. The last part lost its zing.
A friend lent me this book, and since I read The Bourne Identity by Robert Ludlum and absolutely loved it, I was very eager to start The Cry of the Halidon.
While the three entities battle it out, Alex is caught in the middle but all he wants to do is get out of Jamaica a free man.When I read the book description the first time it sounded like this could be a gripping thriller.
I much preferred The Bourne Identity to this one and if you never read anything by Robert Ludlum before I wouldn't recommend that you start with this one.
If you write fiction, you should read this book.
Fifth among Robert Ludlum's twenty-three thrillers, this book is a gem.
The story keeps advancing, the characters are complex and interesting, and every time the reader thinks things are about to slow down there is a new worry added.
That's suspense.Stephen King has written much about the importance of writers reading.
"If you don't have time to read, you don't have the time (or the tools) to write.
Reading is the creative center of a writer's life."Ludlum did everything well in this thriller.
in other words Ludlum tries to infuse terror of the African wild to Jamaica.
Alex is a geologist who is hired to go to Jamaica to do a geological survey.
Once there he discovers things are not as they appear.The last survey group sent by Dunstone, the company that has hired him, had vanished completely out of sight.
The Cry of the Halidon isn't the normal Ludlum affair and indeed there are far far better books written by him, all I can say is...
this book wasn't boring and you do want to find out what exactly 'Halidon' means...
A couple of years ago, I lucked out and found a Barnes and Noble that was going out of business.
Unfortunately, I didn't discover it until the last day, but I was able to pick up a couple hundred dollars’ worth in books.
In this lot were 20 or so Robert Ludlum books.
I'm an absolute fan of that genre, so I figured what the heck.
I've read a few from that stash and picked this one to read over the Thanksgiving holiday.
All in all, it was a good book, but the story line was different from what I'm used to w/ Ludlum.
Jamaica is up for grabs as a secret investment group, British intelligence, and locals battle for control of the island with different objectives. Alex Mcauliff is is caught in the middle as be is hired by the investors to conduct a survey of a remote location on the island. and he doesn't know who on his team that he can trust. This is a good thriller in typical Ludlum style.
Typical Ludlum book - well-defined characters, an interesting plotline with a number of surprises along the way, and very detailed descriptions of the surroundings.
Not an important book but a very entertaining book. More twists than a snake with a broken back.
Unfortunately I couldn't get in to this book, the story was too vague or subtle as some of the reviews say.
I enjoyed the writing and it is accurate that Ludlum is the master of suspense (although this is the only Ludlum book I have read - so master might be too grand) but I didn't understand the battle.
There were 4 groups; a huge American plc, British intelligence and two opposite Jamaican revolutionary soldiers battling in the cock pit.
I just didn't understand the fight it didn't seem important enough to kill lots of people and the conclusion was poor.
Far-fetched and hard to follow. This was one of Ludlum's earliest works and it shows. Getting through the entire book felt like a chore, especially towards the middle and end. The whole novel revolves around a highly sophisticated and wealthy organization, capable of coordinated assassinations throughout the globe. This group happens to be from a small tribe of people in Jamaica. OK...? Ludlum really let his imagination run away from him with this story.
I can’t help but want to have a throw blanky and cuddle up with a book aside with some hot café au lait, just in my own world exploring with Mr. McAuliff and trying to hunt down the people who are watching us.You see what I did there?Us, like it’s him and me against the world until the last flip.Beautiful read.Happy Reading Lovelies
Good entertainment. I remember having read other books from this author and also remember I cared more for the main character in those books - which just tells the writer improved himself over the years.
Good book
The Master of suspense did it again, and again, and again, in all his books. Worth the read and the money.
now i am hooked. This was such a great, easy and creative book. i was hooked after the first page. The characters were easy to fall in love with and follow, along with the story. the author made the mental visions so easy and vivid of the surroundings and the characters actions felt so real.i would highly recommend this author and this book.
The story had a lot of suspense to it for the most part, but it concluded kinda flat. I think it was a tale of a corporation type entity against the common simple man, who wanted to protect his home life style. I had difficulty at times deciding who was the "good guy" and "bad guy". I recall reading Ludlum stories in the past that seemed to be a bit more compelling overall.
For this purpose Julian hires a geologist Alex McAuliff, to undertake geological survey in Jamaica.
The British Intelligence team,knows what Dunstone Limited is up to, and they wants Alex to report every detail happening in Jamaica, to their agent Hammond, through their paid informers in caribbean island.
Alex begins geological survey with his team, in the savage depths of the Jamaican Jungle, the terrifying area known as the Cock Pit. There his team encounters with the, secret center of a native tribe called Halidon, who wants to stop everything and set Jamaica a free country from the claws of corporate companies.
The Cry of the Halidon is an old Robert Ludlum thriller that feels very much in the vein of the author's standard work, but does add a few minor intricacies that stand this tale apart from straightforward fare.
in addition to much devotion to Jamaica itself, which Ludlum fondly recalls in his introduction.
Because The Cry of the Halidon was written in 1974, some of MaCullif's recollections feel dated (primarily his recall to the Vietnam war), but the action is crisp, and even the spy jargon has aged well, making the book enjoyable for those who like the genre and the author behind so many of its stories.
. I suoi libri sono stati tradotti in 32 lingue in oltre 40 paesi.
La trama si snoda in modo imprevedibile, anche se a volte i risvolti assumono contorni esagerati; purtroppo il finale non è degno dell'intero libro.Diciamo che sono rimasto molto spiazzato da questo strano genere a sfondo ambientalista non ti tipico di quest'autore e dunque fosse stato scritto da un altro avrebbe meritato un voto più alto.Di sicuro non il più bello che ha scritto.
the tale of the halidon lurking at every corner of the world is far-fetched.
the assassination of several key figures around the world.
do you think that a black man is not noticed every time an assassination occurs?
the halidonites are black, and it seems to me that it is impossible that such black people are not noticed lurking before the assassinations.
it's impossible, since it takes time training just to be deployed at the field.
and dunstone having MI5 agents on their payroll and at the same time assigned ?
impossible.
such far-fetched conspiracy.
This book by Rober Ludlum somehow lacks the grandiose structure that is usually associated with the author's novels.
The key elements are a multinational corporation based in London, a professional Geologist who agrees to survey an area of Jamaica for the corporation, a split tribe of runaway slaves who have founded an organization in the thick Jungles of Jamaica, their immense wealth and resources, the MI5 & MI6 involvement and a bid to take over Jamaican government gone wrong.
Finally the Geologist escapes the scene alive and well after much ordeal.The book is readable but not classy so that I can't recommend it to friends.

I usually love Ludlum (he is one of my top ten favorite authors) but I think this is the weakest of all his books I have read.
Alex McAuliff is hired to lead a "geologic survey" of Jamaica by an English company that plans to take over the country of Jamaica.
In reality he is sent to obtain a list of names.
He is also coerced into helping British Intelligence against the company that hired him.
In the meantime he forms his team and falls in love with one of his team members.
So was the book.
Quite a disappointment. Thirty-ish years ago, when Ludlum was churning out his thrillers, I used to look forward to each one. The plots are always a bit outlandish with conspiracies galore, but still thrilling. Nothing in this book made me care. The main character was a dud. The writing was amateurish. For instance, the author kept saying "the black revolutionary ", "the white geologist", like the reader ( or maybe the writer) couldn't be relied upon to remember the main characters. I quit after 350 of the 450 pages.
This is a book that requires ones attention.
I started to read this as a side line but found I'd need to review the previous chapter to refresh myself on the story and where all the characters were at.
The pace of the book was such that I finally gave up trying to read it piecemeal, and from then onwards was caught in the relentless flow of the tale.
I can see myself re-reading this at some point in the future, perhaps when I am on a beach and have a number of uninterrupted hours ahead of me.
As a writer of fiction, it is important to me that I read the masters.
Robert Ludlum’s “The Cry of the Halidon” was originally written in 1974 using the pseudonym of Jonathan Ryder and the story is just as believable in today’s world as it was back then.
Reminiscent of some of Alistair McLean’s work, I’m impressed with the way Ludlum uses a well researched setting and develops his characters.
He moves the action right along and you never really know who the actual good guys and the bad guys are until the end.
I’m a fan of this genre and I think this is one of Ludlum’s better works.
Not a great book by Ludlum. I much prefer the ones that take place in the European stage. This one takes place mainly in Jamaica.
This book could have been a lot better if the author didn't keep changing the use of the names of the main character.
There is no pattern to when the character is referred to by his first name proper, first name or last name only.
It throws the reader for a loop for a second or two to realize who the author is referring to then he switches it again.
The story itself is a good one and I really liked it even though it was hard to follow at times due to the constant name changing.
Short review: A geologist is paid to survey Jamaica by a secret cabal of financiers that wants to take over the island and create their own country. MI-5 enlists him to get to the bottom of the plot. I like some of Ludlum's books, but this is not one of his better books. It is written as a suspense book, but is not suspenseful enough and just doesn't grab you the way the Bourne books do.My longer review is on my blog at http://bookwi.se/the-cry-of-the-halid...#
