https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/133380.Collected_Poems
When I have a daily practice, I feel more connected to both my emotional life and my environment.I read poetry out loud, and I typically pace the room as I do; it's a quirky habit that I've always had.
Seemed like a obvious choice, to pick a woman who was a peer of two of my favorite guys.But, Millay doesn't write like her male peers at all.
She writes with a dramatic flourish, and after reading the first 10 poems in this famous collection, I went ahead and ordered myself my own copy.
I'll be reading from this for the rest of my life.
Featuring lilting rhymes and well-cultivated images, as well as predictable meter and controlled tone, Millay’s poems precisely address experiences ignored, denigrated, or silenced by the work of her male peers.
In addition to having written stunning sonnet sequences about turbulent love from the perspective of a woman, Millay concerned herself with writing about patriarchal oppression, the experience of poverty, suicide, the aging female body, urban life, and more; the range of Millay’s talent extended far beyond the neat poems about nature that helped earn the poet her first taste of fame.
Often, Millay’s intense attention to form allowed her to frame difficult or painful subject matter in familiar and accessible terms.
What lips my lips have kissed, and where, and why,I have forgotten, and what arms have lainUnder my 
The fact I know so little about poetry but still chose to read this book (yes, from cover to cover), however, is a testament to the poet.
So it was because of this poem that I chose to read Edna St. Vincent Millay's entire collected works - and I am so glad that I did.I have been toying with reading a biography of Millay, but in a way, I hardly need to now.
But what was the sonnet that introduced me to Edna St. Vincent Millay those several years ago, and remains my favorite to this day?
It was a bio of poet Edna St. Vincent Millay.
I decided to pick up her poetry finally, and the first one I turned to was "Renascence." I've adored various poets- Neruda, Angelou, Noyes, but I felt this one poem more deeply than years of literature put together.
A poem's never done that to me- I was shocked, tearful, joyous, frozen altogether.
It's almost a blessing that being graded on Millay never happened to most people- it makes the reading fresh, clandestine, like someone sneaking a first kiss behind the trees.
More power to her; I'm sure she felt right at home.The woman who, as an undergrad at Vassar, defied the president of the college to expel her and was told "What?
No doubt.
This book alone is worth a year's tuition at Vassar -- and would no doubt prove more valuable to the few who may be caught there (or at Smith, Wellesley, Barnard, Mount Holyoke, or Bryn Mawr) against their will.
It's too bad Radcliffe merged with Harvard only well after her death.
The only wonder is that she didn't rise from the grave to stop it -- or, instead, lead the movement to have Harvard merge with Radcliffe.
While in the midst of reading this collection, I also read Savage Beauty, a bio of Millay, and that turned out to be a really good idea.
There was a stretch of propaganda poetry that was a little tough to get through--Millay advocated for the U.S. entering WWII much earlier than we actually did, and for a time devoted her poetry to trying to turn the tide in that direction.
But this was an area where having read the biography was useful; when I got to these poems I knew exactly what they were and why she had written them.In general, though, the poetry was excellent, and it was interesting to see how her writing changed over time.
One does not expect to come across poetic treasures in English while randomly browsing for mindless stuff to read, at least not when browsing in a bookshop in Belgium, but I wasn't going to let this one slip by. I've wanted to read more of her work since I read An Ancient Gesture. So much of her poetry is haunting, and terribly moving; very glad I found this.
I love this book. I don't read much poetry, but Edna St. Vincent Millay is one of the best poets I've ever read. Wonderful stuff.
"Dirge Without Music" I am not resigned to the shutting away of loving hearts in the hard ground. So it is, and so it will be, for so it has been, time out of mind: Into the darkness they go, the wise and the lovely. Crowned With lilies and with laurel they go; but I am not resigned. Lovers and thinkers, into the earth with you. Be one with the dull, the indiscriminate dust. A fragment of what you felt, of what you knew, A formula, a phrase remains, --- but the best is lost. The answers quick &a
"Dirge Without Music" I am not resigned to the shutting away of loving hearts in the hard ground.
So it is, and so it will be, for so it has been, time out of mind: Into the darkness they go, the wise and the lovely.
Crowned With lilies and with laurel they go; but I am not resigned.
The answers quick & keen, the honest look, the laughter, the love, They are gone.
They have gone to feed the roses.
Elegant and curled Is the blossom.
Fragrant is the blossom.
And I am not resigned.
The Spring and the FallIn the spring of the year, in the spring of the year, I walked the road beside my dear.
In the fall of the year, in the fall of the year, I walked the road beside my dear.
He laughed at all I dared to praise, And broke my heart, in little ways.
Year be springing or year be falling, The bark will drip and the birds be calling.
There's much that's fine to see and hear In the spring of a year, in the fall of a year.
But that it went in little ways.
While there are still poems in this big, big book I have not read, I read until my heart was content.
Edna is a poet to return to again, and these poems leave a lingering taste.
Her voice is unique, yet she keeps the meter I've admired in traditional poetry, and she also brings a fresh voice to the subject matter of love and death and transience using natural imagery and some sarcasm/wit.
I usually like to read smaller single author collections or anthologies, so my not completing this one in its entirety is not an indication of the poet's lack of skill.

I was 10 or 11 when I first stumbled upon Edna's poetry, in a box of children's books from my Great Aunt Alice.
I remember sitting beside the bookcase in the den, the shaggy carpet beneath my crossed legs, the blooming musty smell of old books, and how I leaned into the cardboard box beside me to regain my balance.
It felt like I had come across a hidden treasure, a doorway into another world.
And these poems have knitted themselves into my psyche like scripture; they come back to me at the most surprising times, when I encounter great beauty, or when my heart is aching.
This book was a gift from a special woman in my life.
I fell in love with the poetry in this book, with each poem evoking different feelings and emotions.
I return to this book often.
Her poems are so moving that it raised many questions of her life and the sorrows she obviously faced in her own life.
I found a biography of her life "Savage Beauty".
If you are touched by her poetry, read this book.
She was a woman who pushed all the boundaries and reveled in life, which explains the raw emotion in much of her poetry.
To completely immerse yourself in poetry, especially poetry this evocative and beautifully written, is a treat. Moreover, St. Vincent Millay is not a poet to whom I ever paid a lot of attention, nor did I study her writing at school. This has only made her poetry more special, discovering most of it when I'm older and probably better able to appreciate it. Loved the Collected Poems and would highly recommend.
I’m not sure what to think about her poems. Some I really loved while others are morbid and she sounds almost suicidal. It’s funny though because reading her poems I either love or hate them. None are middle ground for me, or just alright. I feel they are either great or terrible but I’m still a fan.
I haven't read every poem, etc. in here yet, but have been slowly working my way through since Christmas, so I'm going to go ahead and mark it as read.
Why have you not read Millay yet?! You're missing out...
Once more into my arid days like dew,Like wind from an oasis, or the soundOf cold sweet water bubbling underground,A treacherous messenger, the thought of youComes to destroy me; once more I renewFirm faith in your abundance, whom I foundLong since to be but just one other moundOf sand, whereon no green thing ever grew.And once again, and wiser in no wise,I chase your colored phantom on the air,And sob and curse and fall and weep and riseAnd stumble pitifully on to where,Miserable and lost, with stinging eyes,Once more I clasp,--and there is nothing there.
no one, and i mean no one can beat her sonnets...
Her poetry has a clarity and grace that touches my heart. I read it over and over.
* * ** * * * * * * * While making my creative response I tied in the issue of freedom and related it back to the personal issues that the author of the book I read, Edna St. Vincent Millay faced during her life.
I think that in order to have freedom we must have wars and chaos because during this time society is forced to decide who really deserves free will, and if one person is better than another.
I think that my poem shows the choice of freedom or confinement and the road to balance.
Lovely work, but not my thing.
The Collected Poems of Edna St. Vincent Millay brings together poems from her best known books, including Renascence, Second April, A Few Figs from Thistles, The Harp-Weaver and Other Poems (her Pulitzer Prize winning collection) and others.
While Millay is perhaps best known for her poems "Renascence" and "The Ballad of the Harp-Weaver" and also for being the first woman to win a Pulitzer Prize for poetry, her other lesser known poems and sonnets are just as equally satisfying.
The Collected Poems of Edna St. Vincent Millay is a valuable addition to any home library, a beautiful and worthy collection whereby a reader can simply open the book to any page and find a poetic gem for his or her pleasure.
Bring that checkered one or else that sunny yellow thing you bought last spring, Oh, and don't forget the book.
That great big Collection of Poems by Edna.
Now ask the man to stop right up ahead, just like in the movie.
Oh you know the movie.
Cows always leave their smelly footprints.
Follow that stumbley fat stonewall right up to where it almost intersects with the tree.
Leave the food alone.It will be there when your joy is laden down with pleasure.
Don't wait for me.
And wait until you come upon.....'The sun rises dripping buckets of gold' and other well-turned phrases.
One thing I know.
Therefore, after narrating "The Concert*, Mariposa, Autumn Daybreak" he actually was able to see the beauty in the Autumn Daybreak most specifically because he was so enthused after I read it because nothing came of it until a good way of narration was Autumn into thought.
I the poem "The Suicide", you feel deeply distubed by the overwhelmingly familiar feelings of the person who has crossed over, who is now "At peace" in "Paradise"--she is walking, bored in Heaven, when she stops to beg God for a task.
I would miss my children, but other than that, there would be so little to look back on other than the teaching I do, and the hope that through this I have made some difference in this world.Edna had it right...from one lost, dark, and anguished soul to another, this was a disturbing but familiar read that takes you into hell on a wave of lovely words that belie the depth of the author's pain.
I end up writing mediocre poetry rather than an actual review when attempting to convey what her work does to me.
YMMV

