https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/596675.Bank_Shot
Together with his usual crew of Murch, Murch's Mom, Kelp, and some newcomers, Dortmunder plans to make off with the entire bank, trailer and all.
Bank Shot is a comedic caper, as Dortmunder's usually are.
Victor and Herman X, the newcomers, fit in pretty well with Dortmunder's quirky crew.
While I knew things wouldn't go Dortmunder's way, I had no idea to what extent.Westlake's writing in this one is pretty damn good.
It continues to amaze me how he can write Dortmunder's comic capers and the Parker books under his Richard Stark pseudonym with such different styles.
B.R.A.CE 2018 10/37 ενα βιβλιο που περιμενατε να σας κανει να γελασετεΝταξει δεν γελασα αλλα ειχε στυλ παλιας αστυνομικης ταινιας.
Dortmunder has had a long dry spell as far as opportunities to steal valuables, and the gloomy thief has been reduced to running a scam pretending to sell encyclopedias door-to-door.
Victor has an obsession for old school pulp fiction and is a former FBI agent who had to leave the Bureau after trying to promote the idea that the feds needed a secret handshake.Despite his over-excitement at working with an actual crew of professional criminals, Victor has come up with a potentially lucrative idea.
One night a week, a large amount of cash is in the safe of the trailer along with some armed guards.
And what’s the best way to steal a trailer?
But in The Hot Rock they had to plan and execute six heists; each in a different place and often with the same goal.
In this book, we only meet two new characters and the job is completely different.Since I originally read the author in his Richard Stark/Parker alias, I was unaware of his “fun” side.
Clearly his readers shared that enjoyment as the series extended on for many years and many entries.In this book, most of the original players return, but we have a new locksman, an ex-FBI agent who happens to be Andy Kelp’s nephew, and Dortmunder’s lady, May. Dortmunder is surviving hand-to-mouth selling encyclopedia subscriptions (not actual ones of course) and bemoaning the dearth of cash-rich targets in the modern (1972) era.
Dortmunder, like Parker, plans his jobs meticulously.

Master criminal planner Dortmander is reduced to selling encyclopedias to the housewives living on Long Island when his friend Kelp tells him about a “sure thing.” Seems Kelp’s nephew Victor is a former FBI agent who has noticed a perfect opportunity – a local bank is undergoing major renovation and so operations have been temporarily moved to a mobile home in a nearby vacant lot.
The only thing that seems to save Dortmander and his friends is that the police are equally (or more) inept than the crooks.
Πόσο στρωτή ιστορία, που κυλάει ανεξάρτητα από ότι συμβαίνει γύρω μας, που σε παρασύρει μέσα της και οι τόσο ζωντανοί χαρακτήρες είναι εκεί δίπλα σου και σου μιλάνε, ακούς τις ιστορίες τους και τις γνώμες τους!Μία τόσο ενδιαφέρουσα ιστορία ληστείας, τόσο ευρηματική και πρωτότυπη!Ξέρεις τι μου θύμισε κάτι παλιές καλές ταινίες με ληστές και κομπιναδόρους με ηθοποιούς-τέρατα που σε μάγευαν με την υπόθεση και όχι με τα εφέ.
Αυτό είναι αυτό το βιβλίο, η ουσία χωρίς περιττά εφέ.
Ουσία!Το βιβλίο πρωτοεκδόθηκε το 1972, για την κατηγορία 
Not as funny as The Hot Rock, the first Dortmunder book, but a satisfyingly fun little book. And the end was fantastic. Westlake manages to keep hope alive for the thieves but always keeps an undercurrent of fatalistic despair that reminds you this will never work out for these guys. Loads of fun.
Eh sì, caro Dortmunder, anche per un ladro così abile nel pianificare i colpi, l’imprevisto è sempre in agguato… … come la pioggia a ciel sereno!Secondo episodio, ancora più divertente del primo! ;-)
Vintage Dortmunder. What if you tried stealing a bank instead of robbing the bank? Funny, crabby, and wise.
Yes, I know this novel was the basis of a 1974 movie with George C.
And, as with all Dortmunder novels, the joy of reading it is as much with how the zany cast of characters interact with each other as figuring out the how to- aspects of how the job is going to be carried out.For me, this book had a character that I really enjoyed, but don’t remember appearing in any later novels.
It’s a Dortmunder novel.
If you haven’t read this Dortmunder novel, it’s one of the best.
Westlake:The Bank Shot was the first of many Donald Westlake books I have had the pleasure of reading.
I can't even remember how many years ago that it was that I first read this, or how I came upon him in the first place.
Lawrence Block) was a writing machine, in his lifetime writing so many books that many were published under multiple other pen names.I was stunned today to read of his death (a heart attack in Mexico) and saddened to think no new adventures will be coming from him.
And I can't think of a better place to start than this book.
I used to read Westlake's books in the 1990s, so when I saw this bargain on Kindle, I couldn't resist.
Westlake books have never let me down because his humor is kind of snarky and his books are hilarious.
The book is a bit slow to get going and throughout the book it has some slow parts, but all the characters are memorable and it's a well-crafted story.
If anything can go wrong it does in this crazy bank caper.
What ultimately happens to his bank makes this book so funny and worth reading to the end.
Donald Westlake's second Dortmunder novel: not quite rounded into vintage Dortmunder form, but some moments of pure over-the-top slapstick, particularly those involving the hapless Continental Detective Agency flatfoots in the towed mobile home/trailer. Many crooks could plan a bank robbery; only Dortmunder would be unlucky enough to have to work out how to steal a bank.
Not really a four star more like three, but what the hell, it's Don Westlake and Dortmunder so what's not to like. Sit back and enjoy. This was somewhat of a celebration for me being my 100th. book read this year. Westlake never dissapoints.
3.5*
By having "the planner" as the MC of his books Westlake challenges himself, and meets that challenge, in having his character make sure every detail of their crime is going to be covered and in a way that could actually work, not in the "it works if you don't think about it at all" that so many authors fall back on.
This also doesn't fall into the trap of "needing" a book to be over 300 pages.
Westlake has a 190 page story?
He writes a 190 page story.I enjoyed this one as much as the first book in the series and am looking forward to continuing on.
Το Πως να κλέψετε μια τράπεζα είναι το δεύτερο βιβλίο της σειράς όπου πρωταγωνιστεί ο Ντόρτμουντερ.
Η γραφή του Γουέστλεϊκ είναι φυσικά ευχάριστη και πολύ ωραία, το χιούμορ καλό αλλά όχι για όλα τα γούστα, οι ατάκες που βγάζουν γέλιο σίγουρα αρκετές, οι σκηνές δράσης ενδιαφέρουσες και αστείες ταυτόχρονα και οι χαρακτήρες όλοι συμπαθητικοί και αστείοι με τον τρόπο τους.
Δεν είναι για όλα τα γούστα, αν θέλετε μια κωμικοτραγική ιστορία με μικροεγκληματίες που σχεδιάζουν να κάνουν την μπάζα της ζωής τους, αλλά λόγω αστοχιών και ατυχιών δεν θα πετύχουν αυτά που θέλουν, τότε η ιστορία είναι ό,τι πρέπει, αν θέλετε να διαβάσετε ένα σοβαρό αστυνομικό μυθιστόρημα, ή διαλέξτε τα βιβλία της σειράς Πάρκερ ή κάτι άλλο.
Westlake is an amazingly consistent writer. The second Dortmunder novel continues in character as an ersatz, non violent Parker. The humor as shown in the first book, continues unabated in this one, and I presume the entire series. I'll be on my third Dortmunder soon - if not next.
Non mi sembrava vero e appena il cervello ha registrato l'informazione che l'occhio gli stava fornendo (con segnale lampeggiante :D) mi ci sono fiondata in modalità ninja e li ho arraffati :DDWestlake è un genio, mai trovata una banda di ladri più sgangherata degli Ineffabili cinque, giuro!!!
InZomma!!!!Come dicevo, il colpaccio del secolo - per sbancare il lunario - è quello di rubare una banca: no, non ho scritto male..
Gli ineffabili cinque pensano bene di portarsi via l'intero edificio adibito a banca che, per lavori, si trova momentaneamente all'interno di una roulotte lunga 17 metri e larga 4...
We all miss Donald Westlake, the creator of so many delightful books of which this is a fine example in the Dortmunder series.
This time he's approached by his friend Kelp, who, with his his ex-FBI agent nephew, Victor, have the perfect bank robbery all lined up.
It seems while a new branch bank building is being built, the bank has moved across the street to a mobile home.
The bank usually doesn't worry about theft since cash is in the safe (damn those credit cards and checks) only Thursday nights and with seven guards and a sophisticated alarm system, what's to worry.
It's to install wheels and drive off with the entire building.
Here, it's in the character of Victor, the nephew who was fired from the FBI for suggesting a secret handshake ("it was political, right Victor?"), and who only joined the FBI because he loved the pulps, he loved spy stories, the radio serials, dime novels, all the fictions about the FBI.
Westlake was such a clean writer, you likely won't notice the device upon first read, even when "Victor queried interrogatively" pops up at one point.
It was as if Victor's love for the pulps had taken over the text of the novel in which he was a character.
The second Dortmunder book is a bit of a sophomore slump, as Westlake focuses far too much on the quirkiness of his new characters--Andy Kelp's pulp-obsessed ex-FBI agent nephew, Victor, and Black Power con artist Herman X--and far too little on anything else. This probably would have been fine if either of these new characters were more than one-joke goofballs. There are occasional funny gags--I particularly enjoyed Herman X's fancy dinner consisting only of foods that have "black" in the name--but overall, I found the new guys irritating and the plot uninvolving. Your mileage may vary.
Why steal just the money when you can steal the whole bank? In this outing, the Dortmunder gang steals a temporary bank housed in a mobile home. Of course they repaint it with water-soluble paint and of course it rains. Of course they hide it in the ashes of a burnt-out diner and of course the police drop by to order coffee and danish.
John Dortmunder, the incompetent criminal, schemes to steal a bank, the whole thing as it's a temporary mobile one. The usual problems and his crazy solutions ensue. Very funny.
Think of it as an opportunity to find out what would have happened if the Keystone Cops had turned to crime.
One of the earliest and best in the hilarious Dortmunder series - very funny crooks!
How to steal a bankstep one: wheels, then... you know what?Don't even bother.
Quand un certain Dortmunder s'ennuie à mourir en vendant des encyclopédies, lui un ancien cambrioleur professionnel ayant connu trop de déboires, il finit par trouver un coup fumant pour sortir de sa léthargie, avec son oncle Kelp qui lui suggère l'idée de voler une banque ce qui va renflouer les caisses.Cela donne « Comment voler une banque » et c'est Donald Westlake, l'un des plus grands noms américains du roman policier (décédé en 2008), qui, avec son humour cynique et ô combien loufoque, va nous expliquer la procédure imaginée par les malfrats parmi lesquels on compte donc : John Dortmuntder, Andy Kelp, Stan Murch, Victor (entre autres car d'autres « spécialistes » du genre vont se joindre à eux).Mais il faut d'abord choisir LA banque et finalement, lors d'un repérage, ils tombent sur un écriteau : « Il remarqua la banderole, tendue sur la façade :« CENTRE PROVISOIRECrédit des Capitalistes et des ImmigrantsRegardez-nous GRANDIR !- Putain, mais qu'est-ce que c'est que ce machin ?
Bank Shot is the second in the Dortmunder series, who previously appeared in The Hot Rock, a book about a theft-resistant diamond.
It's a goofy little caper that maybe went one or twists too far, but was nonetheless very enjoyable.Here, Dortmunder's brought in to plan a bank theft.
Westlake ensures that the story keeps moving along, putting his characters in tougher and tougher situations, but it's done in a very light fashion — this isn't meant to be taken too seriously.
The way the characters are written and the way they interact, with a dry sense of humor and a certain amount of quirkiness, would fit in nicely to the heist genre.
