https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/137787.The_Boys_of_Summer
”Sooner or Later,” the author Ed Linn observes, “society beats down the man of muscle and sweat.” Surely these fine athletes, these boys of summer, have found their measure of ruin. But one does not come away from visits with them, from long nights remembering the past and considering the present, full of sorrow. In the end, quite the other way, one is renewed.” Since the moment I was aware enough to process sounds and know what they mean, I’ve been a Kansas City Royals fan. From opening day unt
From opening day until the final out, my father had the AM radio tuned to the Royals baseball games.
When he looked at Jackie Robinson, he didn’t just see a black man; he saw a man who could really play baseball and a man who could help the Dodgers win.
It was serious business, a game played by men not boys, and winning was as important as a bumper wheat crop.For a few moments my Grandfather shimmered to life through the eyes of a man who actually got to see him play baseball.
The Boys of SummerBy Roger KahnKindle edition5 StarsThe Boys of Summer is the story of the Brooklyn Dodgers when the best came to play baseball: Pee Wee Reese, Duke Snider, Carl Furillo, Gil Hodges, Billy Cox, Roy Campanella, Carl Erskine, Clem Labine, Billy Cox, Jackie Robinson.
But Robinson had come, not to play baseball, but to be the best player ever, and not to win games but to beat the opponent.
I was a young boy when the Dodgers played in Brooklyn and later on I listenend to Pee Wee Reese, one of those stellar Dodger short stops, call the games on TV after he retired from baseball.
You really can't pick a better book to read in the throes of summer, or in any season of life, for that matter.
The Boys of Summer was so well written, and the story so well-told, I began to grieve for all the other teams and stories of sport that never converged with the bard-like quality of Kahn.
I've read a few reviews and critiques that have suggested that the two sections seem disjointed and could've been two separate books.
The two sections work like counterpoint to show that a truly great team really never stops being just that.
I requested this book from the library expecting to love it, but the first few pages were so choked with baseball nostalgia of endless days of summer, boys growing to be gods in the green cathedrals of yesteryear, the tragic ending in the bitter days of autumn, blah blah blah.
The second book is what I wasn't expecting, but was even more engaging -- Kahn tracks down all the players in the 70's and writes about what happened to them since.
I liked this book and since this is coming from someone who dislikes baseball (a lot), that is high praise indeed.
I loved the voice in this.
It was very "folksy"; it felt personal and the love of the game came through loud and clear.
The author was engaging.
I liked that this book focused on the players of this early era, more than the sport itself.
It also touched on civil rights and the first few African Americans who played major ball.
Sometimes I get to the end of the book and wonder about the title.
The title was perfect.
The inside look at the life of great sports reporters,the insider voices of Durocher the antagonist and Robinson's responses, the feeling amongst the team when they began to win, the insecurity of the Duke even at his prime,the humorous stories that were told, the feeling of alienation by Furillo, the courage of Reese and Robinson, the battle for equality in baseball.
When the third died, Rickey sought to sell his private stock to Joe Kennedy.The latter wanted to buy the team for his son John who was not in great health.
I read this in high school. It was on a list of books that we could choose from in my honors English class. Of course, as a lifelong baseball fan, I was very excited to read it. When we went around the room and told the teacher my choice he said, condescendingly, "Now, you know that's a book about baseball and not boys, right?" What a dick. Anyway, I digress...I loved this book. Seeing "42" made me remember it.
Eloquently-written memoir of a time and place, as Roger Kahn takes us through his career in writing in relation to his affection for the Brooklyn Dodgers and the game of baseball.
He then takes us through his brief but memorable time as a sportswriter for the Brooklyn Dodgers, getting to know the team members personally, and how they and others reacted to the introduction of black players.
Finally, he expands into book-writing, and brings the story full-circle by traveling to visit many of the Dodger players of the early 50’s, and providing a glimpse into their post-baseball lives.
It could be that Kahn makes just a little too much of the aging issue, partly because of the fact that he is focusing on athletes, partly because attitudes were different then.
He persistently describes a man's forties as a kind of middle-aged twilight, and I don't think that we look at it that way anymore (which is a good change!).
Athletes still age out of their sports, of course, but a lot of them are thinking about that inevitability early on, planning their future careers in sports management or broadcasting or other businesses or even politics.
It's striking how much the tale is shot through with race relations in general and the heroism of Jackie Robinson in particular -- even as I learn more and read more I'm still astounded by how fundamental race (and particularly white racism against blacks) has been at so many stages of our nation's history.
I think it says something that that was my takeaway about both this book of baseball nostalgia and Joseph Ellis's Founding Brothers about our nation's early history...but it's nice in this sad, complicated story to have some real heroes like Robinson fighting to help our country become better.
I remembered this as a baseball book - having read it as a 16 year old in the seventies.
Reading it as a 52 year old man (it was written by a 52 year old man) I find it is not a baseball book at all - but a memoir, a tribute to Kahn's father and family, a sweet remembrance of his initiation as a young beat writer covering the Dodgers, and a lament (and again a tribute) to the his aging childhood heroes...
this is sweet book, and Kahn writes so well.
Nostalgic in the best sense of the word. Kahn paints a picture of one of the great eras in the great eras of baseball. The portraits of Pee Wee Reese and Jackie Robinson are especially gripping. But the best part of the book, at least in my opinion, was the account of his upbringing in Brooklyn with a baseball-loving, intellectual father and a mother who disapproved. He makes the reader feel like it is 1940's new york wherever the book is being read.
I only managed to read half of this and was forced to stop. It was too painful to read the accounts of these once-great men, reduced to wrack and ruin by the ravages of time. I'll return to it one day but not yet, not yet.
He is confessional about his family life - mostly positive, though his mother was not all that supportive of baseball-related pursuits - and then he kind of lucks his way into covering the team of his childhood and the players littering the roster - Jackie Robinson, Pee Wee Reese, Joe Black, Roy Campanella, Duke Snider, et.
Well, stupid me, the life of the ballplayer doesn't end at retirement and this second half is essential - perhaps more than even what came before it.Kahn doesn't shy away from criticism or simple honesty, either.
When the book was originally published in 1972, most of the readers were very familiar with the players.
Now-a-days, the readers are not.
I've heard that the 1952 World Series was one of the greatest ever, but there just wasn't enough detail in these areas to appease me.What I liked about the book: I did learn about the fans love of the Dodgers and I understand more why the move from Brooklyn to L.A. was devastating.
Again, I wanted to learn in the context of the baseball season(s), not necessarily what happened with the players after the fact.
Got close to the end of this book and just couldn't stop until I finished. If you love baseball this is definitely a book for you. It was very well written and brought back priceless memories of baseball history.
Classic 1971 baseball memoir about the Brooklyn Dodgers. First part covers the author’s early days as a reporter covering the team. The second part covers “where are they now”, as the author travels the country 15 years after Brooklyn’s final season, visiting the old team and reminiscing. Surprisingly, I enjoyed the second part even more than the first part. It’s as much about mortality and the passage of time as it is about baseball.
It lives up to the hype.
The third part is the author's experience tracking down the retired players in the late 1960s and talking to them much like Lawrence Ritter does in The Glory of their Times.It's really the hodgepodge in construction and it shouldn't work as a complete book and yet it's compelling and satisfying when you finish.
Kahn wrote his book before Robert Caro published his book on Robert Moses so Kahn is a little bit harsh to Walter O'Malley for moving the Dodgers west.
Moses wanted the Dodgers in Queens where the Mets wound up.
O'Malley wanted a better Brooklyn location close to public transportation.
This is not a book about the Dodgers: It’s a book about growing up, growing old, and other Big Issues, for which the Dodgers act as a touchstone.The book is divided into three unequal acts: a kaleidoscopic memoir of a Brooklyn childhood; a shorter, tighter narrative of Kahn’s days as a journeyman sportswriter, covering the team for the New York Herald Tribune; and a series of chapter-length stories about Kahn re-visiting the Dodger players he once knew, a decade or more after their playing days had ended.
Kahn, I discover, has written a book about the trio of New York ball clubs that dominated the game from 1947 to 1957.
The first part of the book talks about his career as a young reporter.
He grew up being a Brooklyn Dodgers fan and now he can report for the team.
It was when Jackie Robinson was playing when blacks couldn't play this game of baseball.The second part of the book talks about the players itself.
It also talked about how Jackie Robinson changed the game for all African Americans who wanted to play.
Its funny but at the same time its sad.In the book it tells us about Roy Campanella who is now quadriplegic talking about his glory days and his past while in tears.
I think I might have enjoyed it more as a stand-alone book – life of a sports writer in and out of sports, filed with Journalism in the library.
But there have been so many books written in the same way focusing on single players (“The Last Boy” or “Sandy Kofax”), or even teams (“The Teammates”) that this will get lost in my memory.
So it’s not really a weakness in the book when it was written, but in how it stands up over time.
Nevertheless, an excellent book showing time marches on and heroes are forgotten, but also showing the unexpected staying power of being on a close-knit team.
I have to start this off by saying that I hate the Los Angeles Dodgers baseball team.
The first half, about growing up blocks away from Ebbets Field and the Dodgers, and being a beat reporter for the team, is fascinating.
This book, which was originally published in the early 70s and set in a time that ranged from the mid-30s to late 60s, shows an assortment of talented players dealing with segregation, war, geography, money, and age.
It gives a glimpse of baseball back when it was actually the people's game, and it shows a human side of the players.
It covers the Brooklyn Dodgers team of the '52 &'53 seasons, a few years after Jackie Robinson broke the major league color barrier.
More than just a history of the accomplishments of the team, however, the second portion of the book gives an interesting and often touching look at what happened to these men after the glory days were over.
I am also reminded of a book for young readers about this team, "Teammates" by Peter Golenbeck.
It tells of the support Pee Wee Reese, the shortstop and captain of the team, gave to Jackie Robinson during that first year covered in "42".
Too maudlin to take seriously, and focusing on aspects I did not care about, The Boys of Summer (despite being considered one of the greatest sports books of all time) is sorely disappointing.
One hundred pages is taken up recounting the authors growing up in Brooklyn.
I was hoping for a book more about the struggles of the 50's Dodgers and the impact of the leave for LA.
What I got instead was an amazingly lethargic, dense 450 pages of stuff I just didn't really care about.
Recommended for hardcore Brooklyn Dodgers fans only.
This is the team of Jackie Robinson, Duke Snider, Roy Campanella, Gil Hodges, and Joe Black, among others.
Roy Campanella, the Dodgers black catcher, was signed by the Dodgers not long after Robinson and he was inducted into the Hall of Fame in 1969.
I love how Kahn ends his description of a visit to Campy's house: "He pushed the lever and the wheelchair started off bearing the broken body and leaving me, and perhaps Roxie Campanella as well, to marvel at the vaulting human spirit, imprisoned yet free, in the noble wreckage of the athlete, in the dazzling palace of the man."What is a practical way I can root for a team that played sixty years ago?
Two ball players, dressed in identical uniforms, stand next to each other.
The man on the left is adorned in a brilliantly pressed and bleached version of the uniform.
The man on the right wears the same uniform, but it's streaked with the color of the infield.
It's brilliance is evident in another way....an authentic way, as though a ball player and his uniform are both incomplete until the stains of striving, sliding, and head first diving are upon it.
"The Boys of Summer" is the ball player on the right.
Read it for yourself to figure out why.
Really enjoyable book that was nearly a 5-star. Very good flow to the book as he recounts his time covering the mid-50s Dodgers as a young sports writer and then about 15 years later when he visits many of the players and catches up with them after their careers have ended. This is a time period and place that I think is a bit overwritten about in sports, but Kahn brings a lot of different stories and perspective to people who have had plenty written about them. A really good book.
A good insight into the early 50s dodger years. I was always somewhat aware of some of the more famous players reese, snider, robinson though they were from an era before my baseball time, but this book brings out a lot about them and the everyday guys also. I liked it more than I thought I would.
Roger relies too much on the reader's having been there, when only he was there. Still, it is a good retrospective of a time and a place, with follow-up vignettes of various Dodger players.
