https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/460006.Paradiso
And why should one care or bother to read a book that requires such hard work from a reader?
If you are not happy reading in a state of occasional confusion, then this probably is not the book for you.If one wants to be more situated, Lima has given clues to assist in reading him, though it took a lot of searching to find anything useful in English:  "Undoubtedly, it is a poem-novel in the sense that it sets apart from the habitual concept of the novel.
And I suspect this book could be pretty damn slutty if you gave it the chance...Edmund White's excellent review from 1974 can be read here: http://www.nytimes.com/1974/04/21/arc...
The key to his first-born and genetrix happiness, a shadow of depth to slip along his street.”This is exactly the language of the book: sentences are like centipedes and serpents, paragraphs are like impassable labyrinths and the text is full of rococo convolutions.“Time, a liquid substance, a mask, goes on covering the faces of the most remote ancestors, or, just the opposite, time drags along, almost lets itself be absorbed by earthly games, and enlarges a figure until it receives the texture of a Desmoulins or a Marat with clenched fists beating on the variants, the echoes, or the tedium of a Thermidor assembly.
Gass in The Review of Contemporary Fiction: XI, #3: William H.
Only few of these novels have I begun to read, Women and Men, Infinite Jest, V., not many more.
A certain favored professor of mine once declared one's lifetime to be just long enough to read one novel.
My failure, acknowledged in advance, is that I know I won't begin to read it properly for many years to come.
That despite nearly every context I run across which indicates Great SoAm Novels including the likes of this Paradiso, who's listening?

Lezama has the power not only to create absorbing and memorable images; he has also placed these images in into a vast network of philosophical and mythical significance. The proof of the greatness of Paradiso is that for the last week I've been walking around the city seeing things through Lezama's eyes. A modern and baroque classic. Paradiso is one of those classics that requires either great knowledge of judeo-christian culture, or a first class encyclopedia at hand. Either way it'll be a long, but trully enjoyable journey into our minds.
I think this must be the single most difficult novel I've ever read from beginning to end. Lezama Lima makes Djuna Barnes read like Hemingway. This was frustrating. I wanted to love it for all kinds of reasons. I read it shortly after my one visit to the author's beautiful country, and I'm always interested in a good baroque homosexual phantasmagoria. But, alas, I simply felt defeated. (The above is not a zero star rating. I'm leaving this book unrated. I may one day return to it.)
Did a review of this book here: https://youtu.be/XziyaLayxvw
Sin entrar en exageraciones, Lezama Lima logró proponerse lo que su personaje José Cemí aprende a atemporizar (si es que existe tal concepto) la vida y el tiempo, ahora destituído de la vida, se vuelve un recurso más de reminiscencia.
Lezama Lima es un genio, de eso no hay duda, pero es un genio no solo por su despliegue impresionante de vocabulario, ni por su poesía narrativa, ni por el universo táctil que nos da con cada verso de su novela, este hombre logró transfigurarse en cada respiro y cada segundo destruído de la novela.
Es una novela pesada como la vida misma y como la vida es hermosa y retadora.
Paradiso is the written word as baton; picked up by Lezama Lima and, instead of running the loping track, leaping over the fucking stadium; trampling the known and unknown world like some phantastical centaur; eyes fired and swollen with the infinite hypotheticals of life, the rejected intersections of flesh, desire, witchcraft; blinded by tears of beauty and impervious to the spears lobbed by the hobgoblin’d hiveminds of Lilliputians that form a new constellational Communion on his flanks—the true symbol of God. This is Love as Language and Language as Love, and, my Lord, it is glorious to behold.Paradiso.
I'll probably never be able to read this book cover to cover, but I love it! One could say it's an exceedingly indulgent foray into a private world, but then don't we often turn to books for doorways (forays) into private worlds?There's a lot of various sensations (food, vegetation, smells) being described here, as well as a lot of stifled labyrinthine sexual intrigue.
"El Quijote" del siglo XX para la lengua española. Un libro donde la literatura es arta y más arte.
A volte questi ultimi sono del tutto senza senso, come se per lo scrittore l’importante fosse il suono della parola – e, in questo caso, la traduzione non può far altro che essere traditrice - o l’immagine evocata: qui si sente il poeta, mentre l’uomo di cultura si fa notare nel fatto che, per capire ogni riferimento, sarebbe necessario leggere il libro con a fianco un’informata enciclopedia (per fortuna, al termine dell’edizione in mio possesso c’è un piccolo glossario di cubanismi e un elenco di riferimenti).
Uno dei territori nei quali spesso sconfina il libro, il sogno come i miti greci, egiziani e orientali, la storia cubana, il sesso, la morte, la memoria, le tradizioni e mille altri rivoli nei quali a Lezama Lima piace perdersi e ritrovarsi, come se volesse divertirsi alle spalle del lettore, aggrovigliando quella matassa che finge di srotolare davanti ai nostri occhi.
Anche a noi piace perderci tra pagine grondanti di una scrittura lussureggiante, addentrarci tra le pieghe di una costruzione stilistica che procede a coppie o più spesso terzetti come in una composizione musicale, nella quale i personaggi sembrano collegati da ponti (Rialta… ecco un’altra metafora).
En momentos te atrapa la historia, en otros te pierde el idioma, esto se repite a lo largo de la novela como el carrusel de sus últimas páginas. Una saga familiar inconclusa, una odisea en los mares de la la sexualidad obsesiva de Cemí-Lezama. Un monumento a la genialidad adolescente y al amor de la familia. Me guardé una estrella porque esa se la darán aquellos que disfruten de las novelas eruditas. Le faltó la modestia de aquellos que lo aprendido lo publican en ensayos y lo que sueñan lo dejan en la novela.
I only read this because it was required for my comprehensive exams. To the average reader, it is completely inaccessible and seemingly unintelligible. While (after much studying) I understand its literary and technical value, I hope to never read it again.
Abandono, no tengo fuerzas para leerlo y párrafos como este me hacen sentir un poco tonta porque no entiendo casi nada de lo que leo :(
Para mí, una obra maestra escrita en párrafos extensos, pero nunca demasiado.
No puedo valerme de palabras para agradecerle a esta obra el regalo que me ha hecho.
Esta ha sido para mí una de esas obras que sé que me seguirá moldeando por un largo tiempo.
Comenzar a leer Paradiso ha sido una dicha, y no puedo esperar a reencontrarme con todo el universo al que el autor ofrece, única y plenamente, una puerta de entrada.
Si bien uno puede ahondar en este Paradiso lezamiano, los caminos que ofrece al lector comprometido no llegan a agotarse; las posibilidades caleidoscópicas rompen los límites de lo temporal, lo espacial, el lenguaje, y la belleza.
Un par de cosas que me llamaron la atención: los episodios narrados pueden ser sumamente triviales e
This is one of the masterpieces of Latin American literature. As all great pieces of literature, it mixes fiction with philosophical writings, poetry, etc...Sexuality is one of its main themes, and Lezama Lima explores it a la Almodovar, and with a Socratic dialogue in one section. Excellent!
Mira que me fascina. Ojalá consiga fascinarme algún día más allá de la página 50.
Μεγαλειώδες!
Claro que ciertos personajes trascienden esta simple manifestación inconsciente de autómata y además de seguir el curso vital pueden ver y reflexionar acerca de tales fenómenos.Ciertamente se ve claramente el influjo en los escritores latinoamericanos posteriores, no hay duda que la escritura de Lezama Lima logró infestar varias de las mejores conciencias de la literatura hispanoparlante, cosa que no es rara, como dije la prosa cargada de una exuberante poeticidad cala hasta lo más profundo, justamente esas áreas que no son dominadas por el pensamiento lógico, áreas que reaccionan al lenguaje mítico, poético, simbólico.
I used to think that if a book had genuinely value, I'd be able to appreciate it. Now, I realize that that's a bit solipsistic, so take it for what it's worth when I say I found this exhausting and mostly unrewarding. I understand the comparisons of Lima to Proust, and I'll make another one: I'm glad to have read the major fictional works of both; I'm just as glad--if not gladder--that I'll never have to read either again.
Una de las novelas más complejas e importantes del siglo XX latinoamericano.
"Ni tu claridad intenta extinguir mi oscuridad, ni mi caos intenta dinamitar tu ordenamiento natural"
3 estrellas.No puedo dar una calificación o una reseña ya que sólo leí los capítulos 1,2 y 7,8.
Pero sólo diré que leer esta historia es muy muy difícil, esta poblada de imágenes y metáforas, de un lenguaje muy rebuscado o barroco, en las primeras páginas no tenía idea de qué estaba leyendo hasta la página siete pude encontrar un ritmo en la historia y adentrarme al mundo, pero en el capítulo dos hay un cambio de personajes que persiste en el siete y ocho.
Aún así es una historia interesante y llena de detalles que te entretienen y seducen una Cuba antes de Castro.
Indeed, it was a tough read. At first, I didn't find it interesting at all. I think it does not enthrall the reader at once. One needs time and patience to get through the sui generis of that elaborate prose, teeming with a variety of original metaphors. But the effort will certainly be rewarded and one will deliver a great deal of pleasure from the world of the old Cuba. Despite that, I'm not really into such novels, that's why I gave only three stars.
"Paradiso vuelve visible por la imagen del universo esencial del que sólo vivímos usualmente instancias aisladas"(Julio Cortázar)Otro de la lista de libros jamás devuelta de los esenciales para leerse en la vida, de mi jefe el que contaba en reseñas anteriores.
one of the great books of the 20th century, also reading this one slowly slowly, each sentence a treat. i read parts of it years ago. there's a translation, but it really should be read in Spanish...
