https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5972040-beyond-the-grave
The story is still adventurous and imaginative, but now it is totally predictable. I’m really interested in Irina’s character, and I hope we’ll meet Ian and Natalie again.  He stood in front of three vitrines lined up in a row. Each held an identical statue of the lion-headed goddess Sakhet. The statues were only about eight inches high and appeared to be made of solid gold. Only their eyes were different. One glittered with green stones, one with red, one with blue."Sakhet. The most powerful go
The story is still adventurous and imaginative, but now it is totally predictable.
I’m really interested in Irina’s character, and I hope we’ll meet Ian and Natalie again.
Each held an identical statue of the lion-headed goddess Sakhet.
The statues were only about eight inches high and appeared to be made of solid gold.
One glittered with green stones, one with red, one with blue."Sakhet.
The most powerful goddess of them all.
Goddess of divine retribution and vengeance.
Legend says that Ra once sent her against his enemies and she nearly destroyed the entire human race.""Whoa, that's one Rambo goddess," Dan said.
(My 11 year old son's rating.)
Jude Watson did a fine job of letting us in on a few more Cahill secrets, but some additional mysteries remain.
Amy and Dan have found the next clue and have had a near-run-in with the dreaded Madrigals, who have smashed up the Ekat stronghold in Cairo.
SPOILER ALERT: The mystery code that begins on page 39 says: Alistair was there on the night they died.
I believe this statement is referring to Amy and Dan's parents who perished in a fire.
This implies that either: a) Allastair is responsible for that fire, or b) Alistair knows who killed Amy and Dan's parents.
My favorite in the entire 39 Clues series so far.
I love the educational adventure that these books bring for kids.
I'm quite fascinated with Egypt's history, and since Amy and Dan Cahill find themselves in Egypt for this volume, I was happy to be reading this book.
Although it doesn't come from from a Christian perspective exactly, this particular book infused something Christian-related into the plot---VERY, very good, Jude Watson!
It will be a while before I read another 39 Clues book that excites me as much as this one!
Two new characters are introduced in this book, Theo, an Indiana Jones-type Egyptologist and Hilary, who is the childhood best friend of Grace, Amy and Dan’s dead grandmother.
Instantly likable, they play an important part in the story.Amy and Dan learn a little about Grace’s past through Hilary who gives them a card with a message from their grandmother.
For example, Beyond the Grave is a good indication the next clue is somewhere in a grave, but also hints at Grace’s message coming from “beyond the grave” since she is already dead when they receive it.
Amy and Dan continue their look for the next clue,but find some trouble along the way.They were tailed by Irina Spasky,but escape to a store with an Egyptian goddess statue,the Sakhet.
After an unsuccessful attempt to find the clues under the Nile River with Alistair,Amy and Dan find something leading back to Cairo.After arriving,they find a store which Grace once visited.The store owner,Sami,gives them a senet board, after opening the puzzlethey identified their clue,Myrrh.The stronghold get's destroyed,and Amy and Dan find a mysterious cloth with letterMs in a pattern,indicating that it must have been the Madrigals.
Неплохо, но мне чего-то не хватало на протяжении книги.
Главный минус - много сердечных страданий Эми по Яну.
Египет прописан отлично, я даже прониклась духом пустыни и дна Нила.
Да, его самого, куда их только не заносит во время поисков ключей.
Кстати, в этой части много размышлений и переживаний персонажей.
Это хорошо, так как раз уже здесь со всем разобрались, то в следующих частях все буде куда более бодрее и приправлено тонной экшена.
Между прочем, здесь его так же хватает, причем даже сполна, но хочется чего-то более эпичного.
Мне любопытно сколько книг они будут собирать эти ключи.
Beyond the Grave (The 39 Clues #4), Jude Watsonعنوان: آن سوی گور - کتاب چهارم از 39 سرنخ؛ نویسنده: جودی واتسن (واتسون)؛ مترجم: دلارام کارخیران؛ تهران، ویدا، چاپ دوم 1392، در 183 ص، شابک: 9786002910486؛
Con su consabido sentido del humor, siempre está haciendo chistes y quejándose del calor y de que tiene hambre y que odia los museos y las bibliotecas; pero debo admitir que aquí se pasó.
Me recuerda a Milo Thatch:Me encanta como coquetea con Nellie, otpAmó esa mezcla de Indiana Jones y Milo Thatch que tiene.
El hecho de que los Kabra no salen aquí...
Along with revelations about their grandmother and stuff.Honestly, Beyond the Grave should be called: Slumdog Millionaire in the Kane Chronicles.Some things I liked about this tome:- Dan. I never imagined that I would see Dan upset.

This book was mainly that sometimes the reward is worth the risk. In this book and series the reward is nothing short of the chance of world domination, the reward making you the most powerful person in the world. This time in Egypt, Dan and Amy are still searching for more clues in the hunt for 39. They go through many dangers and as usual dodge death many times. But they still stay in the hunt, showing time and time again that they think the rewards of the hunt are worth the risks for them.
3.5/5
I like the book 39 clues”Beyond the Grave” by Jude Watson, because there are a lot of intense situation that happen throughout the book.
This is number four in the series.The last book leaves Dan and Amy trapped in a cave.
Dan and Amy next clue lead them to a museum in Egypt .
Dan pulls out a brick and the security guard sees him do it .
Dan threw the brick at the security guard so they could escape.
If you like series there are more book that continue from this book.
I'm going to give a generic review of the series.
All three of us that have read 39 Clues thought Book 2 the weakest of the series.
But as one son said, after finishing the series, "Gordon Korman seems to be getting better.
I think he's a decent author now." Some of the books are better at teaching the history part, others just barely skim the surface and you don't really learn about the person they're 'highlighting'.
I do, however, think it has more redeeming qualities than most kids literature and I'm happy to see my boys devouring a book every day or so.
I love that reading this book as a young adult, I still get a lot of value and enjoyment out of it.
Even the bad guys start showing a few interesting cracks.All up, 39 Clues is turning into a complex story that is so simple to read that you just absorb the complexity in your stride.
I am kept guessing right to the end and even when something obvious has happened, I find myself wondering why I didn't see it coming.
A great story with wonderful consistency from book to book despite there being four different authors so far.
It seems like we are probably on clue #11.
Okay, so I went on wikipedia and there will be ten books in the series.
I like the clues and the hunt.
The best part about this series is that it is written by multiple authors so a new book comes out about every three months.
There is a website for the series and each book comes with clue cards (which I have not seen since I have always read library copies).
Probably a lot of fun for an 8-14 kid but I wasn't completely sucked in.
Interested in reading the other books.
I'm a big fan of suspense and mystery, and this book does it right!
The series is interesting and a good book about finding clues and betrayal.The 4th installment in the series, betrayed by their cousins, left alone by their uncle, and no idea where they are, Amy and Dan Cahill are completely lost in Egypt with no one to help them guide through the endless crowd of tourists.
Will Amy and Dan find the clue after perilous adventures?
This book will want you to keep reading and never put it down!
Amy and Dan should have stuck to that all throughout even if it meant meeting their grandmother's best friend.
But it paid off in the end anyways 'cause now, Irina Spasky, their ex-KGB cousin, set sail on the wrong destination.
I mean, two underage children travelling the world with their au pair 'cause of this scavenger hunt stated on their grandma's will?
That's crazy enough.
As far as the series went, Amy and Dan had managed to elude a lot of dangers.
With that being said, I'm still fully on about reading the remaining books.
It was a bit different take on Amy and Dan, with more humour in the mix, but one that I thought worked very well.
I also have to praise Jude Watson for her stepping outside the box and telling us some of the past of Irina, Allistair, Bae, and Grace.
Along the way they meet old friends of Grace (some helpful, some treacherous) and Uncle Allistaire decides to "come back from the (suppossed) dead" to team up with Amy and Dan once again.
This book is the best of the series, so far.
It follows the further adventures of Dan and Amy as they travel across Egypt with their au pair, Nellie, in search of more clues to solve the mysterious puzzle and learn the truth of their heritage and power.
I enjoyed the fact that the characters were more fully developed in this story, and didn't seem just like caricatures.
The characters are beginning to show a bit of personality and conflicted feelings.
I even learned a new word: vitrine!
I hope the next books can live up to this one!!!!!
Another mediocre installment. Dan and Amy don't seem to be developing at all, while the side characters like Irina and Johah Wizard become more shallow every time they appear. The big mystery here is not the clues, but whether there will ever be any kind of explanation of the Cahill clan. I've given up on the hope that any of this will make sense. There is still a wee bit of fun to be had, but at this point its being overwhelmed by the sheer ridiculousness of it all.
A great book! Action, adventure, danger, romance (only a little), betrayal, friendship and love. All of the facts that were missing from book 3 are here in book 4. Maybe a tiny bit too heavy on that; I liked it, but I wonder what the kids will think. I love this series and can't wait for book 5 in August.
Rating: 3/5 StarsBook 4 of The 39 Clues SeriesThis book was okay, not the best of the ones I've read so far. I like the mystery of the clues and where they will be headed next, also I like the suspense of when they are getting chased or are in danger.I would recommend this book to people who like Mystery.
In this book they are in Egypt. I got kind of confused wile reading this book, but at the end I got all caught up. A few major scenes in this book are when, Amy and Dan are trapped and when they find out that they are being bugged. Overall this was an extremely good book that lots of people will love.
These stories are really interesting, and I cannot wait to read this one. Every book ends in a cliffhanger, and the last book was the defeniton of cliffhanger!! I am waiting to read this book, and I can't wait to do so!!!
This book is very interesting but sad at the same time and just wants you to keep reading the book. This book may sometimes be frustrating because of the betrayals that have been going on between Dan and Amy and Alistar Oh.
This is my favorite book in the series just really exciting to read. It was great having the children hear from their grandmother and have her help them in a way. Look forward to reading more.
I'm learning a lot about Egypt in this book because it takes place in Egypt. this is helpful because that's what we are studying in school right now.
good book
I thought this book was very good because of the action, thrills, and cliff hangers. I coulden't put down the book it was so interesting. I would dedicate this book to kids 12 and under.
