https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3819326-angels-blood
"Erm-""Well," says her next eldest daughter, "I'm going to find a man that ACTUALLY tries to kill me, and then he's going to fall in love with me and then we'll get married."Elena shakes her head in confusion.
BUT, while I'm with him I'm going to get so badly injured that he has to sacrifice who I am in order to save me so that we can still be together in some form or another!" she bursts out, almost turning red from the exertion."How romantic!" the other two croon before all three turn and begin to compete over who can come up with the most romantic scenario.Finally, the youngest and Elena’s only boy chirps in, “Well, when I meet a girl, I’m going to keep reminding her how much better than her I am and then hit on her relentlessly, even if she shows not sign of wanting me at all!”His older sisters stop.
It has all of the classic PR traits: an oversexed, dangerously attractive "hero" whose past issues account for his boorish attitude and make him oh so mysteriously erotic; a cookie-cutter heroine with nothing interesting about her except that every male within a ten mile radius wants to bonk her; a "romance" between said hero and heroine that wouldn't even exist if they both weren't so horny; a paranormal "story" that is seriously overshadowed by myriad scenes of near sex encounters, sexual innuendos and double entendres - and the aforesaid are all just the prelude to The Real Thing.Any chance that Singh might have had at writing a good, entertaining, well thought out UF series went right out the window when she chose to go the paranormal romance route; at least, IMHO.
When I heard that Nalini Singh was venturing into urban fantasy, of course I was going to buy Angels' Blood.
Let me tell you, I was so impressed with this book.Nalini Singh took the theme of angels and made it her own.
And, he decides that he wants to have more than a business relationship with this powerful warrior woman (that's his type, you see).Raphael was some kind of character.
Ms. Singh captured the appeal of these beings so very well, along with the inherent menace and danger they represented to humans and hunters.
Amaaaaaaaaazing!!! I've been getting a lot of recommendation requests for solid PNR or UF series', something that will hold a readers attention while they wait for the next Black Dagger Brotherhood book. The truth is, there's nothing that compares to the BDB and looking for something "the same as" will only lead to disappointment. So don't bother. Instead, look for something just as compelling, exciting, sexy, and gripping, even though the world is entirely different. When people ask my opinion
Do I tell you about Raphael, the Archangel in charge of New York City, and how amazing and sexy he is and how much I love, love, love it when an author can change a character from someone I really don’t like into someone I adore, someone whose transformation from complete jerk to hero is totally believable and someone I cheer for, someone my heart aches for and someone I want to see find his happily ever after.And there’s always Elena Deveraux, the Guild’s best vampire hunter.
”I was born to be what I am.” A hunter. A tracker. A loner.” Elena Deveraux is a vampire hunter and has been requested to work a job for the Archangel of New York, Raphael. This story has an equal amount of action, attraction between Elena and Raphael, great cast of supporting characters and a lot of excitement.  “The man wants you – but I’m not sure if he wants to fuck you or kill you.” The attraction and chemistry between Raphael and Elena was steamy as they work towards catching a rogue Arch
Elena Deveraux is a vampire hunter and has been requested to work a job for the Archangel of New York, Raphael.
This story has an equal amount of action, attraction between Elena and Raphael, great cast of supporting characters and a lot of excitement.
The attraction and chemistry between Raphael and Elena was steamy as they work towards catching a rogue Archangel and save innocent human lives.
I’m excited to see what comes next for Elena as things ended on a life changing note for Elena and Raphael.Thank you Anjee for gifting me this story!
It is one of MY ABSOLUTELY FAVORITE fantasy-romance series!This book is the start of an epic love between the Guild Hunter, Elena and the Archangel of New York, Raphael.
Elena is hired by Raphael to find another archangel who has gone rogue and started killing humans without cause.NS has created a world where angels and humans live together but it is obvious that angels hold all the power.Angels are the creators of vampires.
Raphael is an archangel, one of the 10 in existence, a powerful being with little regard for humans.
He is undeniably an alpha but NS has emphasized the fact that Raphael isn't human.
4 Stars I didn't realize this series was more Urban Fantasy than Paranormal Romance. I'm not a huge fan of the Urban Fantasy genre (the focus centers more on the plot than the romance), but I very much enjoyed reading this story. Nalini Singh is one of my favorite authors and she has the ability to captivate and enthrall me no matter the genre. I won't lie, though; I prefer her Psy-Changeling series to this one. That said, Angels' Blood is one fantastic read!
4 Making you Human Stars I knew after reading Nalini Singh's Psy-Changeling series that I would want to read more from that author, so when I seen she had a angel series I started buying books.
Here I am book one, and I am really glad I started this series.
I will say it took a bit for me to warm up to Raphael, but by the end of the book he owned my heart.
Elena was awesome and kicked some serious ass.
I loved her from the start.
She was smart, sweet, and bad-ass all in one.
Elena was very rela
I knew after reading Nalini Singh's Psy-Changeling series that I would want to read more from that author, so when I seen she had a angel series I started buying books.
I will say it took a bit for me to warm up to Raphael, but by the end of the book he owned my heart.
I understand he was powerful old Archangel and so he lost almost all his humanity, but it was hard at times to see what Elena liked in Raphael other than his looks.
By the end of the book Raphael was really starting to change and I loved the new side to him.
Nalini Singh!This book!Raphael!Amazing series, but after reading the other books, this one still remains my favorite. Just brilliant <3Some of my favorite quotes <3 "She looked into that perfect face and knew she’d never met a more deadly being in her life. If she displeased him, Raphael would kill her as easily as she might swat a fly."------------------------------------"“And if I fail?”“Don’t fail, Elena.” His eyes were mild but his smile, it spoke of things better not said aloud. “You
Nalini Singh!This book!Raphael!Amazing series, but after reading the other books, this one still remains my favorite.
If she displeased him, Raphael would kill her as easily as she might swat a fly."------------------------------------"“And if I fail?”“Don’t fail, Elena.” His eyes were mild but his smile, it spoke of things better not said aloud.
“You intrigue me—I’d hate to have to punish you.”"------------------------------------"The bald way he pointed out his power, and her lack of it, made her fingers itch for a blade.“You shouldn’t look at me in that fashion, Elena.”“Why?” she asked, prodded by some heretofore unknown suicidal streak.
Raphael pulled back, lip already beginning to swell.
You won't believe it, but the idiot that I am, I did not write any reviews before 2015-ish.
Seriously, I'm so mad at myself right now.
Ugh...But anyway, now that I got that of my chest lets get to the actual review.It's no secret that Nalini Singh is one of my all time favourite authors.
I love her stories and the way she writes them.
They are super addictive and I simply cannot stop reading them.
I love all the details that make me believe in everything that I'm reading.
I love that we get to know each character.
Unfortunately I was in the minority on this book. I just didn't feel it 🙁
Did I ever want this book to end?What more could you want than a steamy PNR read? "... with a master at the art, all pain is pleasure." Elena is a Guild Hunter, which is like a bounty hunter except she tracks vampires and returns them to their master... the angels. Then Raphael, an incredibly powerful and ruthless archangel, request her help and she knows that failure isn't an option. Especially when he might not let her live, even if she does succeed. ___________________________________________
Did I ever want this book to end?What more could you want than a steamy PNR read?
Elena is a Guild Hunter, which is like a bounty hunter except she tracks vampires and returns them to their master...
Then Raphael, an incredibly powerful and ruthless archangel, request her help and she knows that failure isn't an option.
This isn't a typical story about angels and vampires.
∙ The Others ∙There were a lot of interesting side characters and whether I hated them or loved them...
____________________________________________♦︎ Overall♦︎____________________________________________I would definitely recommend Angel's Blood to anyone in need of an original, page-turning PNR read.
I have a horrible track record with books everybody else seems to love.
The main character, Elena, is a total BAMF.
This model comes complete with a Brain-to-Mouth Filter, Intelligence, Quirkiness, Likability, Genuine Emotion, Rational Thinking, Self-Deprecation, the list goes on and on!This story provides a new, interesting take on both angels and vampires.
Elena is a born vampire hunter and unlike every other vampire hunter I’ve EVER read about she doesn’t think they all need to be wiped off the face of the planet.
I loved the plot, the twists and the interactions between Elena and the other characters, especially Raphael.
dislike.dnf at 20 percent.obsessed with power dynamics, status symbols, and physical beauty.plus awkward, melodramatic writing as nuanced as any american daytime soap or panel talk show hosted by women trying to out-bitch one another for an hour.this book filled me with hate.*is full of hate*
In case you are interested to relocate, chose the worlds created by Nalini only if you belong to the top of the food chain, thus regular humans need not apply...
Might as well do something good as up my shot at getting into heaven.”...So this is how Elena, the Guild Hunter, met Rafael, The Archangel of New York...
Only this time he wants her to hunt not a Vampire, but a degenerate Angel, turned Blood-born, whose condition is expressed in madness, blood-thirst, and death and devastation to come, the likes of which could drown the land in blood...
That means death, dismemberment, torture, or other unpleasant punishments.Torture looks different to different people...These angels are also the only beings who can create vampires and they make about 1,000 each per year.
That's where Elena comes in.Elena is a vampire hunter, but this has a very different meaning in our new world.
Proceed.Elena gets hired by the head honcho angel of the U.S.A., Raphael, to do some hunting.
So, poor Elena is pretty much screwed no matter what the outcome of this job.As I said before, the world-building in this book is really new and imaginative.
I was expecting to read a good book...
I know that some gave just 4 stars to this book, and I don't get it, it had EVERYTHING a good book should have to be one of the bests.Paranormal-romance and UF fans ------> you MUST read this book.It wasn't just that the romance between Raphael and Ellie was really sweet and funny, it was this whole new world that NS has created.
Let me up!"- Elena to Raphael I can't wait to read the next book in the series.
This book gets the whole 5 stars rating, I just LOVED it since the first page.
October 2017 - Kick-ass Elena is just what I needed after my last disasterous book. 14/09/2016 Buddy reading with the awesome UF addicts over at BB&B!     “What happens if I don’t kill her?”“Then she will kill you. She will make you mortal.”    In a world that's ruled by archangels and where vampires are made by archangels, Elena Deveraux is the best vampire hunter the Guild has. So when lethal archangel Raphael asks for the best, Elena is given the impossible task of finding an archangel w
Can Elena resist the powerful seduction of Raphael, and find the rogue archangel?
I loved that she never allowed Raphael to get the better of her, no matter how frightening or how much of an asshole he was.
I thought the final battle was fantastic, and I loved how Elena and Raphael worked together.
The world-building in this series is definitely a lot slower, but I enjoy the slow pace, learning more about angels, archangels and vampires as Elena learns.
If you’re looking for a kick-ass heroine, a lethal archangel, passionate romance, fantastic characters and a fascinating plot and world, this series if for you.
and i'm kind of kicking myself because it turned out to be a very solid start to what i'm sure is a fantastic paranormal series.i think the biggest issue that i had with this book was the lore and the way in which the world was set up.
angels create vampires, and the people who want to be turned to vampire have to like formally petition and then enter into a contract of servitude post-turn.weird as fuck.but once i got past that initial weirdness in the first 30% of the book or so and became adjusted i genuinely enjoyed the story.
I thoroughly enjoyed the audio.I read this story ages ago and when I saw it offered in the Romance Package decided to refresh my memory. So glad that I listened this time, it gave a completely different experience. The narrator was fabulous and very easy to listen to. She does multiple accents well and her male and female voices were clear and concise.The storyline was action-packed, world-building interesting and the love story intense. I want to know more about the angels, vampires and hunters.I will definitely be listening to more of this series. Another winner from the Romance Package.
3.5 stars.Full review to come.There is just something not-so-sexy about angels. Wings and flying? Yicks!I guess i'm a vampire girl by heart? Buddy read with my new friend Hayley.For good luck:
I picked up this book hearing great things about the series and Nalini Singh, so I gave it a shot.
In a world where angels, vampires and humans co-exist, you would think that as a mortal Elena would be submissive to those who hold more power than her.
Singh makes a good point in the beginning where she explains that as an Archangel, Raphael has power that is terrifying but also so compelling you can’t seem to stay away.
I just love the way Singh describes him.
I am dying to know about Elena and Raphael.
Color...me...shocked... This book started out super strong, and quickly took a nose dive. The premise of the story was so intriguing, I couldn't believe how badly the author was messing it up! I'm a reader, but a poor review writer. My time on Goodreads has been grooming me and I'm attempting to become better with my reviews. I found myself despising this book soooo much, I thought I should keep some notes as to why. So, for the first time in my reading experience, I did so. I'm not going to ret
I found myself despising this book soooo much, I thought I should keep some notes as to why.
Reviews are what a person thinks and feels about a book, so that's what you're gonna get in this one.
On that note, Elena herself is painted as this badass, hot chick that all these crazy sex gods want.
This book is filled with beautiful, badass, perfect people.
Elena goes on and on about all these hot men and how she doesn't want to have sex with them.
Sex consumed so much of the story.
With all the flaws I've found and despising at least 60% of the book?!
Oh my freaking God!!! Raphael, come and find me please... I need your angel dust!!! :) “Oh, this is a special blend for you." Taking one of the fingers she hadn't licked, he rubbed it along her lips. "What we usually shed is apparently comparable to the most delicious of chocolates or the finest of wines. Decadent, rich, and very expensive."She told herself she wasn't going to lick the glitter off her lips. "And this blend?" The taste was inside her mouth without her having any knowledge of taki
“Oh, this is a special blend for you." Taking one of the fingers she hadn't licked, he rubbed it along her lips.
Decadent, rich, and very expensive."She told herself she wasn't going to lick the glitter off her lips.
"And this blend?" The taste was inside her mouth without her having any knowledge of taking it in.
"What's so special about it?""This blend," he murmured, bending his head, "is about sex."She put her hands on his chest but it wasn't a protest.
It made his hands clench on her hips."If I licked you between your thighs, your taste would have the same aphrodisiac effect on me.”
The writing and story-telling make me crave for MORE, which inspires me to pick up this series and re-read usually once a year.This is one of the few series that I actually buy a 'hard copy' of so I can hold it in my hands while I read, and lend it out to my friends.Once again, I thoroughly enjoyed this story!Third read November 4-5, 2014Had to go back to where it all began.
Raphael and Elena are still one of my favourite fictional couples!Fourth (audio) read: April 15-16, 20185-"When an Angel Loves True" Stars!Loved the narration, story-telling, and the accents!Well Done, Justine Eyre!The final battle scene was beautifully read.
Raphael definitely improves as the book goes on, changing from "you're all ants beneath my feet" to "maybe I'll appreciate your beauty, butterfly, and not pull off your wings just because I can." He basically develops more of a personality beyond being a supremely powerful being almost at the top of the food chain.
I liked that the book was at times from his POV, it helped to understand his character and the enemies better.
Elena doesn't change during the book, besides seeing more in Raphael than his banging hot body and beauty.
It's not like she runs into danger in a ball gown just to see what's going on, nope, she's there to kill.
3.5 Let's get this party started StarsRead with my fellow UF/PNR lovers at Buddies Books and BaublesWhen I’m beginning a new UF/PNR series there are a few things I look for. - Is the world and/or lore different and interesting?✔In this Angels are not heavenly creatures doing gods will or if they are they have no knowledge of it. No instead they are immortal beings who seem to like to play games with the mere mortals of the earth. Oh and also they make and control Vampires. Yeah I didn’t see that
3.5 Let's get this party started StarsRead with my fellow UF/PNR lovers at Buddies Books and BaublesWhen I’m beginning a new UF/PNR series there are a few things I look for.① - Is the world and/or lore different and interesting?✔In this Angels are not heavenly creatures doing gods will or if they are they have no knowledge of it.
The plot for just this book was well contained and I liked the set up of the story with Elena being called in to track an Angel gone bad.
I’m nice… not using bad words… not for Elena *giggles*) (dafuq) aaand, the best thing of all, she managed to tame the wild, deadly beast that is Raphael.
that's not a healthy relationship...) And the chemistry he had with Elena (even though he was close to killing her many times) was simply phenomenal!(He is the Cookie Monster.)I can’t really comment much about the story without spoiling it so I will stop my review here.
Totally agree there.)(Yeah, I choose to die, thank you very much.)Since I’m, as they say, a quote-monster, I will try not to paste the entire book here.
The ammount of words I had to look up was eye opening and it didn't feel like a hard read at all.
Angel's blood has all the good things that I look in my paranormal series: it has a kickass heroine, fun and humorous banter, smoldering alpha males and interesting interpretation of well known myphs.
I think we'll learn more about her family tragedies in the next book or maybe even later, I'm happy to wait if it gives us something to look forward to and makes an interesting story for the future.
Solid plot, which kept me interested the whole time, which is definitely worth acknowledging because all the books I tried picking up right before this one didn’t accomplish that same feat.The world building was really quite unique and with all the hints, the little bits and pieces of information that have been dropped throughout the story, I’m sure there’s SO much more to come.
Strong and kick-ass, with her head on straight as long as Raphael wasn’t coating her in his angel dust or Dimitri spraying her with his pheromones (again with the unwanted mental images 🙈), she’s a reject with a tortured past who really was quite likable and thankfully not stupid or stubborn as some of those UF MCs often are.
