https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/321459.Celia_Garth
And here it is:At age thirteen I discovered historical fiction by means of Gwen Bristow's Jubilee Trail, and with that began a life long preoccupation with stories set in the past.By the time I was seventeen I had read hundreds of novels about civil wars (British and American), the Revolution, the Anglo-Saxons and the Norman Invasion, ancient Rome and Greece.
With Celia, Barstow gives us a complex, ambitious character who can strive for personal fulfillment in a whole range of ways.There may well have been young women like Celia who spied for the colonial forces during the Revolution, women whose stories have been forgotten.
The second half of the book, after the invasion and occupation of the Brits, has our heroine becoming a spy for the rebels.
The author obviously did her research of the era so I was disappointed that she did not get inspired to have her heroine emulate some of the fascinating, adventurous, real-life, female heroes of the American Revolution.
Unfortunately, our heroine is relegated to passing little messages hidden in sewing baskets.
Quel dommage :(First half was stellar, second half just underwhelming.
I would still recommend this for people who, like me, know very little of the details of the American Revolutionary Wars.
His family was the close kind, the ones with cozy rooms lined with books and a mother who says to Celia;"Of course, child, you'll have two.
Then we have a family quite different, they like things just so, Vivian is a mother who's house is in order and everyone in it is too.
When Celia and other seamstresses had gentelmen callers, they were called boy friends.
Later when mentioning men who kept company with women who weren't their wives, they were called girl friends.
I do think that Helen Topping Miller had more exciting descriptions of the American Revolution in her books Slow Dies the Thunder, The Proud Young Thing and Trumpet in the City.
It's a great companion to "Johnny Tremain" because in that book you have a male hero right in the middle of all the action, but in "Celia Garth" you have a female hero on the outskirts of it.
Celia Garth, the main character, is a naive girl working as an apprentice to a seamstress in Charleston, South Carolina.
I looked up several of these key American Revolution figures on Wikipedia, and both Tarleton and Marion are controversial figures.
If she were a British author, those opinions would be reversed.I read "Celia Garth" over the 4th of July holiday.
This is the tale of Celia Garth, a 20 year old woman trying to make a living as a seamstress in Charleston, South Carolina during the Revolutionary war.
The author does a great job of setting up the scenes of the town and plantations, and the history of the time.
We follow Celia and her friends through the seige of Charleston by the British, living through the constant shelling and lack of food until the final surrender.
This was a wonderful story of love and courage, with a great dose of history thrown in.
Wonderful story set during the American Revolution. Celia Garth lives in Charleston and works as a seamstress. She experiences the Revolutionary War and even plays a part. The descriptions of the area are very well done. I did have one minor nitpick, I've never known Carolina Jessamine to be in full bloom in June. Had the author said anytime between December and March, I wouldn't have had a quibble. Other than that, Gwen Bristow can sure tell a great story. I absolutely love her writing.
The war action is told rather than shown, but it's told in enough gruesome detail to be a textbook, similar to An Infamous Army.Plot summary without spoilersCelia Garth is young, pretty and bored to death working as an apprentice seamstress in Charleston, South Caroline during the Revolutionary War. Ceila is always looking to the future.
Thought I knew about the Francis Marion, Banastre Tarleton and a bit about the history, I had a hard time putting the book down because I wanted to know what would happen to the characters.
Celia Garth is a strong, independent young woman who lost both parents as a child and lived with her uncle and his family who although in the planter class struggled a bit.
The love and comfort she has found is initially destroyed but Celia finds her revenge working as a spy and revealing small secrets helping Colonel Francis Marion (the real figure known as the Swamp Fox) to make life miserable for the British.
Through this she really finds herself and grows into a more confident and fulfilled young woman.
Celia Garth is a young and pretty girl who works in a dressmaker's shop in Charleston.
But when the British invade Charleston and her life is changed forever, Celia finds out what she is really made of and what she really cares about.
She finds courage as a spy, listening in on Tory women's conversations in the dressmaker shop, knowing that if she too is captured there will be terrible consequences and no one will be able to help her.
I wish there were a sequel so I could continue to follow these characters and how they were able to adjust after the siege of Charleston.
I've been meaning to read a Gwen Bristow novel for quite some time. The novel was a lighter read than I had expected, some parts a little predictable, but I still found it very enjoyable. Celia was a bright character that has to overcome a lot in a time of war and you find yourself rooting for her. There isn't a whole lot of adult historical fiction set during the Revolutionary War which made this a unique experience. I would recommend this to historical fiction fans!
This is the first historical romance I remember and a favorite of mine in my teen years.
It is a very long time since I read Celia Garth, so it was shocking to me how clearly I remembered everything and how some of the concepts became part of my own life beliefs.
I decided to be an appreciator.The story both because of being written over 50 years ago plus it's a historical romance does have some dated concepts.
I can appreciate books and music, and good clothes, and good food and wine—why Celia, I’m mighty important in the world.”   
Well maybe he's not  that  great, but he's pretty awesome.I loved this book for so many reasons.
(The ones that were meant to be loved anyway) Celia changes a lot in this book, and I felt like I could relate to her.
(And I came across "Jerry" in my devotions the other day) I though the majority of the characters were great and seemed real!Maybe the biggest reason I loved this book was that it made you think about things.
I didn't really like how it ended tho :( I'm still thinking about those things!
She just has the best -let me wrap my arm around you and tell you a great story that you are just gonna love- style.
She does a great job with her historical research and I really felt like I was getting a true taste for colonial life.
The only question I have is why I am not giving it 5 stars?Favorite quotes: page 7: The world was full of promises, and if you put your mind to it you could make them real.373: Celia wondered how many people there were who, like herself, led a secret life.
This was one of the first books to make me love historical fiction, and I so enjoyed reading it again. I loved the characterization of Celia and the portrayal of the time period just as much as I first did forty-some years ago.
I gave this a 5 star review because the story really gave me a sense of being in Charleston during the war and really getting an understanding of the times. The story is well-written and I enjoyed the characters as well. Looking forward to reading more from this author.
A surprisingly good historical fiction account of a young girl in Charleston SC during the American Revolution.
When you first meet Celia she is a naive 20 year old girl working in a dressmakers shop in fashionable Charleston.
The impending British attack and occupancy of Charleston causes life to become more complicated than a 20 year old would like.
But as she deals with the harshness and cruelty of a siege, and the loss of loved ones she starts to mature and form her own opinions of herself and of others, and their reactions to British occupancy and wartime experiences.
I enjoyed Celia’s story. She grows from a silly young woman to a woman who is willing to stand and fight in her own way. I liked Jimmy and Luke and Vivian. The setting is Charleston, SC during the Revolutionary war. The book was originally published in 1959 and I’m not sure how I missed reading this when I was younger. I look forward to reading more of Gwen Bristow’s Books.
If I had known how great this book was, I would've read it sooner! It's a little Gone-With-The-Wind-esque.
I first read this while in 8th grade.
It was then, as now, a stirring story of the American Revolution set in Charleston, SC.
I loved, loved, loved all the historical details and spent an afternoon recently tracing Celia’s path along Lamboll, Meeting, and Tradd Streets in Charleston.
Gwen Bristow wrote this book in 1959, before the civil rights movement.
The slaves are not referred to as such (Bristow calls them Negroes/coloreds/servants) and are portrayed as loyal friends to their masters and opposed to the British.
I’m sure this did not disturb my 8th grade self though it seems so obvious now.
The author definitely knew how to keep my interest when describing Tarleton's raids, the hardships of Marion's swamp rats, and the tension of those on plantations and in town who had to wait weeks for word of their loved ones.While reading most parts of the book, it was difficult to remember that it has a 1959 copyright, more than 50 years ago.
Indeed, the words slave and slavery were not mentioned a single time in the entire text.
Likewise, all the slaves portrayed in the book were well treated and showed love and respect for their owners.
Picking up this book again was like reuniting with an old friend.
I first happened upon this book as a teenager as I roamed the shelves of my local library.
In my current city, the local library only has 1 copy of ANY book by Gwen Bristow and that is truly a shame.
I just finished reading "Thes is My Words" by Nancy Turner and my thoughts returned to this book.
As an adult, I have read much more widely, but this will always remain a book close to my heart - an old friend.
I am not going to write a summary of the book because the Goodreads description basically gives us the entire plot.
As we can also see, Celia Garth is praised by many reviewers who have held dearly onto this little book and hold great memories of it.
I am sorry to say that my expectations fell short because I wasn't really swept away by either the female protagonist or the writing.
I felt most of the characters were one dimensional and that the romance between Celia and her two suitors was very tame.
This book took forever for me to get through.
I usually really enjoy romantic historical fiction, but for some reason this book was soooo slow.
I kind of felt like the first half of this book was too cheerful, too wholesome, too "Leave it to Beaver", too artificial in some way.
I felt like the characters in the book were plastic.
Finally about half way or so, the book got real for me.
I enjoyed the last 1/3 of the book, but that did not make up for the syrupy first half.
All in all, it was good, but not great for me.
This was a good book.
I have seen reviews comparing it to Gone With the Wind but for the American Revolution.
I guess that kind of works.
It was not so well developed as GWTW but I like the characters much better.
I didn't spend most of the book wanting to thottle Cilia.
She started out young and immature but she grows up.
She is able to make the transition to wife and mother unlike the spoiled brat in the other book.
I really liked the second half the best though.
The first half was kind of slow...
Book Group October 2014
This was the first novel I ever read. I was around 12 years old and I'll never forget the experience. It's historical fiction set in Charleston, SC during the American Revolution. And it's a romance. What more could an adolescent girl want. I went on to read every book written by Gwen Bristow and perhaps this is where my love of history began. These books are light but very interesting and gentle by today's standards. I would be comfortable recommending them to any parent for their daughters.
I don't know if I would have eventually found this book anyway but it was in the library of the girls' school I attended in junior high, and I fell in love with it immediately although previously had not been much of an American History fan, other than Elswyth Thane. It is still a book that is wonderful to reread! Bristow's writing style has a lot of similarities to Frances Parkinson Keyes' but I think is warmer and less mannered, thus has not become as dated over the years.
I enjoyed this book, as it showed a side of the Revolutionary War I had never known anything about. Celia Garth helps the Continental forces by spying for their cause working in a Tory dress shop in Charleston. I enjoy Gwen Bristow, and while not as "meaty" as Jubilee Trail or Calico Palace, it is nonetheless a good read.
I read this in high school and it is my favorite, maybe the only, historical romance that I like. It is set in the Revolutionary War which is a particular favorite of mine and the heroine is a seamstress, which I love sewing. It has many favorable attributes.
Even after the 100th read of this book, I still love it and would continue to recommend it to my friends.
It showed up on a recommended list and as soon as I saw the title, I know I had read it in my teens.
