https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71774.The_Furies
Jakes makes the point in a particularly poignant way when hours go by before (view spoiler)[ Amanda casts the deciding vote as to whether to provide medical care for workers injured in an accident.
Neither side could see the others point of view, so no compromise was possible.
The gov't is in its 8th day of shutdown due to a few fanatics refusal to compromise & a few others refusal to do what is right since it threatens their position - not their ability to feed their family, just their continued power.
I found that jarring, probably more so because I didn't care for the character, although he was perfect for the point Jakes was trying to make.
The Furies takes place 20 something years after the events in The Seekers, the story this time approximately in the 1830 period, revolves around Amanda Kent, now all grown up.
Amanda gives birth to their son, naming him Louis Kent, in honor of his deceased father.The second half takes place in San Francisco, during that time period, known as Yerba Buena.
Later on Amanda learns that her late fathers firm Kent and Son's, originally founded by Phillip Kent, is still in operation, bought out by an old enemy, Hamilton Stovall.
In another half of the story we are introduced to Jephtha Kent, son of Jared Kent, Amanda's cousin.
I read books 2-7 of this series in the last weeks of Feb 2013.
While I liked the continuation of the family name through each generation, I could have done without every single important female of the Kent family being raped, sometimes repeatedly.
They no sooner got power and money than they lost it, and family members ran the gamut from good to brilliant to corrupt to sleazy to fierce to insane to bloodthirsty.
But I would not recommend this series, save book #4, which was excellent.
I loved the heroine of Amanda more than all of the rest of the family combined, and I was rooting for her all the way.
The Kent family has entered into its third American generation and Amanda Kent shows that not only the men are daring and brave.
Texas fights for its independence from Mexico and Amanda witnesses both the atrocities and glories of war.
This is the only John Jake’s novel (and I've read almost all of them) that has a woman as the main character.
Much is written in or about the time of the American Revolution and American Civil War. This book fits nicely between the two.
Much was accomplished in this time but tends to be overshadowed by the war preceding and following.
A great read in the John Jake’s tradition.
The sweeping historical scene and extremely vivid - and complex - characters are the highlights of this book.
The main character, Amanda, is fierce.
However the fact that Jakes insists in having one or more of the female characters be raped, sometimes horrifically, in every book is quite off putting.
Jakes does a fantastic job of creating complex and compelling stories, but the sexual assault and his constant need to constantly kick in the teeth such few of the main characters as are likeable - many of the main characters are not remotely sympathetic and there is precious little redemption - makes me really hesitate to recommend these books.
I keep reading the series. The history is good. There are interesting characters but sometimes the characters, frequently the characters, do something which seems out of character and stupid and plain wrong. The author was just trying to add something interesting and dramatic.The characters are not "heroic". You might say that is realistic. Humans aren't really heroic. But also they aren't just plain idiots.The whiplash between the main characters doing things which are heroic and noble and then proceeding to be stupid and malevolent just to give the story a twist. That gets really tiring.
Added 7/30/12.Finished this book in September 2012. A good read.I loved meeting the historic characters in this book of historical fiction.While the book was not as compelling as some other books I've read, I always enjoyed going back to where I left off.On to the next book in the series, The Titans!
Great read!
Yay, this one was really good. A female as the central character! She takes charge! Side note: All this leisurely reading--I must have a paper due on Friday.
Following mostly Amanda throughout her life, and a distant relative of hers, Jeptha Kent, this novel in the series covers the Texan fight for independence, Californian gold rush and the beginnings of abolitionism and State strife.
Amanda really takes the reins of this story and makes the chapters that revolve around her distant cousin, Jeptha seem to take forever.
A compelling character, she is a survivor and is not to be underestimated.
This was a very compelling story and I am excited to see what lies in store for Louis and the remaining Kent family members.
After reading Book III of the Kent Family Chronicles, I was feeling a bit drained and somewhat dreading beginning this fourth installment.
I was pleasantly surprised by this story which follows the life of Amanda Kent.Amanda is an amazingly strong female character within the Kent Family who has undergone many dark struggles including living through rape, being sold off as a wife, losing a husband she loved, and surviving through the Alamo.
Amanda’s determination and strength were inspiring as a character and it was captivating to read about her life.
If I had any major complaints about this book it would be that Jared’s branch of the family felt underdeveloped.
The eight-volume epic of the Kent family continues as a new generation struggles to survive within a nation rife with conflict.
Amanda Kent was a woman of great courage, but nothing prepared her for the massacre she witnessed at the Alamo.
Now she's returned to Boston to rebuild the Kent legacy.
But the man who stole the family publishing business stands in her way.
Suffice it to say that this book deals with her struggles and also notes the final days of her cousin Jared with whom she is reunited only briefly.
She and Jared each have a son to carry on the legacy.
I read this entire John Jakes series many years ago, had them in hardbook until they literally fell apart, I have now purchased them for Kindle to read them all again. John Jakes did his homework and these are some of the best historical books I have ever read. I love them, highly recommend, start with the first in the series and read them in order. Great reading at it's best.
I liked the fourth book much better than the third installment. The story begins with strong heroine Amanda Kent surviving The Alamo in Texas and eventually going back to Boston to get her grandfather's printing house back into her possession. She gets involved helping the Underground Railroad and it becomes already clear that the North and the South have differences that can't be resolved.
My favorite so far of the series. The focus is largely on just one Kent family member and she is quite the colorful character. The story moves along at a reasonable pace and keeps one wanting to continue reading.
The continuation of a family is sacred.Once again John Jake's brings to life in print our history. The book is a treasure for those of us who enjoy fiction based upon history. I highly recommend this series.
Back on form after the Seekers, this book follows Amanda Kent from the last book at the Alamo, San Francisco during the gold rush, and back to Boston fighting for the family business. Jakes does a good job of weaving historical figures within the action of the book.
This was a much darker book than the previous 3, also found it repetitious. This is probably the last of the Chronicle I will read for a while although I did enjoy the Kent Chronicles.
Read all of the Kent books back in the 70s
Did not finish.
6 out of 10
Amanda, my favorite character so far.If you read GOT then don't worry about the dark comments.
These comments address The Kent Family Chronicles, the entire series of eight books, in audiobook format.
Tempo and pacing fine, albeit the narration is a bit slow for my taste, bumped it to 1.25.The entire series is a broad spectrum history of the United States from just pre-Revolutionary War through the 1890s and a chronicle of the Kent family through this time.
All the instances that involve the Kents and John Jake’s other fictional characters are products of his imagination.
Several of these books were adapted for television mini-series, popular at the time.John Jakes is a terrific historical fiction author, recommended.
Amanda Kent, the young girl separated from her cousin in the last book, has survived.
But he's left enough information for Amanda to know she must get to the gold mind he was partners in and claim his right so that she could have the money to get back the Publishing Co and also to set up an inheritance for his one and only son, Jephtha, and Jephtha's three sons, who are currently living in Virginia.
The owner finds out who has the girl and in the ensuing struggle to get his rightful property back the commander is shot and killed, and Amanda is shot.
The Kent Family Chronicles continue. We meet the adult Amanda, her son Louis, and Jared's son Jeptha, a Southern minister. In the real world, we have the attack on the Alamo, the rise of the abolitionist and women's rights movements, and the Gold Rush.Amanda is a good, strong character. Perhaps a little too strong, as other characters comment through the tale. More would be spoiling.
The fourth volume of the Kent Family Chronicles covers the years 1836 to the 1850s just before the Civil War. This volume is also almost exclusively about Amanda Kent.
Jephtha Kent, Jared's son, and even Jared have minor roles.Amanda starts out at the Alamo.
Amanda then becomes lovers with one of her Mexican captors, Cordoba.
Jakes does a great job capturing the hectic and frantic time when people flocked to San Franciso.The story ends with Amanda back in New York trying to purchase the families print business, Kent & Son, from Stovall the arch enemy of Jared Kent.
The story ends with the life of Amanda ending.
Moving forward in the Kent Family Chronicles, we meet Amanda Kent.
A woman who was abducted and raped before she was a teenager.
This is how history should be taught...from the viewpoint of individual Americans rather than just reading dry facts and dates in a textbook.
Even though this is historical fiction, it helps to bring alive individual dreams and failings as if we were there witnessing history as it's happening.
I highly recommend this series but read them in chronological order so you can appreciate the story of one family and all its varied kin.
"The Furies", 4th in the Kent Family Chronicles Series, concerns the Gold Rush in California and the heating up of the slavery issue.
Amanda Kent, survivor of the Alamo, uses all of her strength and resources to reach her life goal of returning to Boston and bringing "Kent and Sons" printing back into the family.
Through all of her hardships to attain her goal we see the advancement of the country opening up and the fever rising to challenge the slave issue head on.
I love how this series, through the Kent family generations, takes you through all of the history of America.
Reading this series is a great way to relive american history.
The fourth book in the Kent Family Chronicles series is perhaps the best so far. It certainly rivals the insights into the colonial struggle chronicled in The Bastard with it's own perspective of westward expansion and the issue of slavery. The storyline was unique because the main character was a strong, courageous and independent woman. That made the story unique and kept it interesting. As usual, John Jakes mixes melodrama with history in a unique way, but there is no denying that the story is a fun and interesting read.
Book 4, The Furies, which traces the first major female member of the Kent family, beginning with her survival at The Alamo, moving to California during the Gold Rush days, then back to New York as she attempts to regain the Kent family publishing house while confronting her own demons. A little slower in spots than the first three books, but ends with a tremendously good bang (almost literally!) and readies the reader to move onto the next generation of Kents and the impending Civil War.
