https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18051.The_Small_Bachelor
Very funny! One of Wodehouse's better stand-alone books.July 2018 reread: no change to my opinion
I didn't enjoy The Small Bachelor as much as the Jeeves book I read, though it did help with the Jeeves book that I could see parallels with Bunter and Lord Peter in Dorothy L. Sayers' books. The humour isn't so great for me when a lot of it revolves around embarrassment and ridiculous situations -- that came off better for me in the Jeeves book than in this one, I think.Still, it's well-written and entertaining, definitely: I had a pretty high standard set for Wodehouse from the first book of his I read.
Turns out I don't really enjoy the Wodehouse stories set in the US that much. There English setting adds a charm that is missing in the NY based stories. It was funny but not the hysterical "how can this all come together" funny that we come to expect from Wodehouse.
“A man with an abhorrent vocabulary,” as described by Beamish.Sigsbee H Waddington – He is the richest and meekest personality among all the characters.
“He seems to have been kicked by a mule on his head during childhood,” as described by Beamish.Mrs. Waddington – The second wife of Mr. Waddington, she is a woman of strong personality and dominates everyone in her home and outside as well!“She has a soul like the underside of a flat stone”, as described by Beamish.Story: Any work of P.G.Wodehouse has a wafer thin story line made complex by little side plots bound by hilarious dialogs and odd character descriptions.
George Finch from Idaho moves to New York and becomes the worst artist the world has ever known.In Bugsy Malone it was cream buns, here the prohibition is strafed by rapid fire witticisms. Lovely rom-com.
Definitely not the finest work of Wodehouse. The same old formula of situational comedy but lacking the endearing quality that often accompanies his scenes and characters. Even the usual wordplay wasn't that good.

The publishers of the Everyman edition always quote Evelyn Waugh's accurate praise of Wodehouse: "he has made a world for us to live in and delight in".
But also like Waugh he has made this world through his distinctive language.
Some phrases he loves to use, and it's funny just to see them crop up again: so, the short Mr Waddington, needing to gain altitude by standing on a tub "bumped the tub down and, like a man who rises on stepping-stones of his dead self to higher things, elevated himself upon it." I wonder if there is a Wodehouse concordance somewhere?Other times he smoothly incorporates 'specialist' language into his narrative for fun: doing his exercises, "Hamilton Beamish...
This is the first time I've read anything of Wodehouse's.
It reminded me of a classic film, like a 1940s rom-com.
Lol!) Honestly, given time I could probably cast an entire 1940s movie with all the greats based of this book.
This book is filled with great characters.
It's a great book, and now I can't wait to read more by Wodehouse.
-(Also this book reminds me of the book "Miss Pettigrew Lives for a Day", by Winifred Watson.
Another great book, published 11 years after this book.
If you like the Small Bachelor, definitely give Miss Pettigrew a read.)
This book started its life as a musical stage-comedy and, at first, it looked as if this would be a weakness: the early chapters are dense with Wodehouse's wonderful prose, but thinner on what you might call the meat of the thing.
By the last few chapters, the action is fast and furious, but still visibly a stage play in origin (in that the action takes place in what could easily be one stage set) and the denouement is superb and satisfying.There's something of a Wodehouse revival going on at the moment.
The short opening chapter of just over three lines sets the scene in the Sheridan Arpartment House in New York.
And a very good thing too." Instantly you know you are in safe hands and Wodehouse is on form again.Others have talked of the plot, and there does seem to be more of it than usual in a Wodehouse book, but the laughs keep coming and the usual wordplay shines brilliantly.
It might not be as good as some of my favourite Blandings or Psmith books, but that is no reason not to give it 5 stars.
Small the bachelor may be, but this is a giant book.
It's all here: love, loss, and good advice about what to do when a pickpocket shows up at your wedding claiming to be your sordid scarlet woman past.
This is an early Wodehouse set in New York, and we get a bit of additional fun from the Englishman's slightly skewed take on how Americans speak and act.
If you haven't read it, and need a night off from your worries, this is the book and the author for you.
If you have read it, the plot is much like other Wodehouse novels, so you won't let that stop you.
this was my first p. g. wodehouse book. though it wasn't part of any of the jeeves series, i feel like i at least got a taste of wodehouse's style. this novel was light and funny and endlessly optimistic about love and circumstance. i quite enjoyed it as a quick fun read. i particularly liked the cover illustration of the edition i had, which displayed a very tiny, cute, bespectacled bachelor man holding dumbbells on the roof of his nyc apt. super cute.
I am completely in love with P.G.Wodehouse and have been for years! As a writer he is so incredibly talented. Wodehouse has the incredible ability to immerse you into the most wonderful completely ludicrous world. If you are ever in need of a pick me up or simply need to read. laugh out loud kind of book this one is for you. My top 5 Wodehouse reads for sure!
I think this novel is an adaptation from a musical so has the flavour of entrances and exits. The departure of Fanny complete with fake pearls is a bit of a giveaway
a delicious farce with all the Wodehouse ingredients gradually falling into place.
When he is on form the world is a better place: the sun shines brighter, the birds sing sweeter; misunderstandings multiply like weevils in a flour jar, bursts of wit flash past like brilliantly unconventional similes, and the whole is carried off with a breezy insouciance that belies the careful balance of the thing.
Well, Wodehouse can do with the middle of a story what it takes a small kitten to do with a ball of string, of course, but...
It may be an intricately plotted mechanism, but it doesn't feel like one.
What is Wodehouse without aunts?
The start of the book seems like well a transcription of a play with descriptions added.
As the reader moves along it starts feeling more like a novel that is becoming overstuffed with quasi random love affairs and coincidence.
The whole thing seems to lurch from scene to scene like traincar pulled by a locomotive with a case of the hiccups.
Some of the scenes are quite lovely as viewed from my traincar, but I'm never really a part of them only viewing from my window and the whole trip is jarring and leaves me with a bit of a metaphorical back ache.

42 WORD REVIEW:Immersed in New York culture yet without a character to provide an outsider’s perspective, Wodehouse’s usual wit and comedy of circumstance dips towards the more edgy, less comfortable humour of, say, Fawlty Towers, its intertwining of lives and problems more sequentially resolved.
Did evoke some good laughs, but the monotony also kept springing its head quite frequently. Have I read too many Wodehouses this year ?? Yet wouldn't mind laying hands on one more, for who wouldn't grab the opportunity to laugh his heart off in the fast paced and stressed filled times..
While not one of Wodehouse's best, this in a fun tale with loads of broken hearts that must be mended, thieves, and stolen necklaces. The narration was good, with Cecil performing quite a few voices with perfection.
My First in Comic Genre....It is but a more pleasant filler between Intense philosophical writings than Psychological thrillers.. Many more to come hopefully..
It's the real ginger. I needed a book to cheer me up and it did exactly that. So funny and ridiculous and unpredicable. Perfectly Wodehouse.
A very convoluted plot but exceedingly amusing as ever.
Good.
All right, all right, all right.
a hilarious rollercoaster.... :)
I love wodehouse, and this book illustrates why. Farcical, plummy, and delightful for a quick, light read to cheer up the November skies. A refreshing interlude, and pure escapism for me.
fantastic farce from the master. did always go where i expected it to.
