https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/426775.Chasing_Harry_Winston
Adriana whines about no one taking her seriously, Leigh whines about her job and her boyfriend, and Emmy whines both about wanting to have random sex and not thinking she can go through with having random sex.The biggest problem I have with this book, beyond the basic boring insipdness of the plot, is that Weisberger doesn't seem to know her characters.
Adriana is oh-so-cool that men want her and women want to be her, yet she very uncooly gushes over Salma Hayek, "Brangelina," and, inexplicably for someone who doesn't want children, Angelina's son Maddox.Leigh isn't in love with her boyfriend (who later becomes her fiance) but Weisberger makes a point of telling us that while she doesn't want to have sex with him, she isn't repulsed by his touch, either.
I absolutely LOVED "The Devil Wears Prada" and "Everyone Worth Knowing." I live in NYC and love reading about places I've been to, or places I've heard of.
There have been two long passages about Otis already in this book, and the worst part was when Emmy decides to travel and dumps the bird on her friend Adriana.
The fact that the bird can shout out that Adriana is a "Fat Girl" and her actually contemplate losing weight makes me furious.-Adriana's use of the word querida in EVERY sentence.
Do Brazilians use the word querida to mean something else?
Absoulutely one of the worst books I've ever read. I am completely done reading the vapid crap that this woman purports to "write". She's a no talent-hack, who I'm convinced just knew the right people and got a contract for telling-all about Anna Wintour. When people bought that admittedly interesting, albeit horribly written book, it perpetuated a book deal and now she won't stop writing. And she should. She's HORRIBLE.
Like eating a whole sleeve of not particularly great cookies and then feeling like, "Why did I do that??"
I'd seen the movie "The Devil Wears Prada", and to be honest, that was pretty rubbish storyline-wise, but I thought hey, I'll give her a chance.
Then again, I bet the blurb for the Devil Wears Prada looked good as well.Adriana was quite honestly the most annoying person I've ever met.
Weisberger's editor didn't have the guts to tell her "umm, your book stinks" because she was so well known and loved after The Devil Wears Prada.
So the gutless editor just let it get published, and the book went down.I guess my experience with Laura Weisberger hasn't had a good start.
I'm not sure why I am still reading this dreck. I didn't purchase it on my kindle because it had such horrible reviews, but when I saw it at the library I thought I would give it a chance. I think I am just avoiding housework but the pile of laundry is starting to look more appealing.
Leigh, THE BOOK EDITOR, got engaged and went to visit her mom.
Her mom says "I can't believe I had to wait TWELVE DAYS to see this sparkler." Then, two pages later, an incident that happened the day of the engagement is referenced as "it had been TEN DAYS since." About 200 pages later Leigh's name is spelled LEAH.
This is the kind of crap that makes me want to burn books and then back over their ashes with my car.
Or just complain incessantly to anyone that will listen.Anywho, over the top characters, far fetched ending--standard chick lit.
Leigh is an overachieving and not overly successful editor at a publishing house who is dissatisfied with her romantic relationship, so she screws the author of the book she's editing.
Leigh has a boyfriend who seems like one of the only decent characters in the story, yet she cringes at the thought of being with him any longer.
It's unsettling that Weisberger has fed the false notion that a woman is virtually useless once she turns thirty if she hasn't landed a man and a rock.
Emmy's character is absolutely obsessed with getting married and having a baby.
By page nine, I had already laughed out loud and at page 38, I already LOVED "Chasing Harry Winston" by Lauren Weisberger.It's the story of three best friends: Emmy, Adriana and Leigh and a year in which they plan to change their lives.
Set in New York, focussing on dating and sex, you can't help but compare it to "Sex and the City" but it isn't a carbon copy nor are the similarities a bad thing.I found "Chasing Harry Winston" highly entertaining and incredibly easy to read.
If you want a high-brow Pulitzer’s contender, then this isn't the book for you but if you want an easy, fun and fabulous Summer read, I highly recommend "Chasing Harry Winston".
aside from the fact that it reads as if it was written by a ninth grader, the overall tone and subject just supports the stereotype that all women (or at least those in a certain age bracket) are consumed with material things and status, and that true love is not quite as important as the size and make of your ring or the number of men with whom you have slept.
but don't get me started on feminists either...the other thing that really ticked me off is that i couldn't find the book in paperback.
Uhm. I can't quite figure out how I feel about this book. It, in my opinion, lacked any real plot (bar a couple of moments), and there was no real character development, either. That being said, it was one of those reads where my brain didn't need to be entirely present or working to comprehend what was going on. And there were a few moments where I genuinely laughed out loud. It was a good, thought-less read, something that I didn't realise I needed after my last few books.Basically, I didn't hate it, but I definitely didn't love it...
It was one of those books I wanted to throw with great force (thanks Dorothy Parker) but still had to finish just so I could see how bad it could get.
The unforgettably bad bits:1.
Yes, I too was constantly checking the cover to see if I was mistaken in thinking those were rings coz nothing in the narrative justified that design.
Except the art department wanted it to connect with 'The Devil Wears Prada', correctly guessing that was the only reason people would buy this book, and they also wanted to throw in some bling.
Really bad job by the editors, really ironic considering one of the protagonists is one!
I love this book. Totally girlie and predictable, but fantastic!!!! I really enjoyed the way the author presented three female personalities whom I could either relate to, or identify them among my female friends. All three girls are fantastic and easy to love. Great writing too. I couldn't put it down. Not in the suspense thriller kind of way, but in the I really want to know what's going to happen with the characters and what turns are their lives taking.
I love books that show the friendships of ladies. Maybe because I can picture my friends and myself as the ladies. I found this book to be funny and an easy read. I recommend this book over Lauren Weisberger's other books. Honestly, until I read this book I had a hard time understanding why people loved Lauren Weisberger's books.
But I think what made the book unbearable to me at times was Adriana.
I know that it's normal and I know that Emily was justified to feel it but I think the author took it to a different level by making Emily  whine  for hours about how she's perfect and deserved to have a baby with her ex-bf first rather than her (much nicer) sister  (hide spoiler)]The only character I did like in this book was Leigh since she took a stand for herself in the book and made the right choices despite people telling her otherwise.
[This being particularly true regarding Leigh, a rather crass character who I could never quite relate to and was constantly bothered by..] And yes, if you let the book, as well as the absurdity of the bird one girl inherited from an ex and felt bad getting rid of (any rational, real-life person would sell the damn thing), get you down - well, you probably wouldn't open yourself up to any type of good conclusion.Yet, I found myself re-thinking this book a couple days after I read it, and I actually enjoyed it quite a bit.
Adriana, Emmy and Leigh are best friends living in Manhattan, New York.Adriana - The Brazilian goddess, the ultimate slut socialite who will sleep with just about anything male.Emmy - The flat-chested serial monogamist who had been dumped by her five-year boyfriend for a virgin cheerleader (like I would believe that for a minute!).Leigh - The obsessive and compulsive one with lots of issues despite having perfect everything i.e boyfriend, job, place...
The perfect boyfriend every women drool upon, the job with one of the top publishers, a place of her own with lots of space, unlike Emmy's.
The characters are all self-centred and unrelatable, but Weisberger wants them to be regular girls who just so happen to sleep with A-list directors, actors, and authors.
Nothing really happens until halfway through the book.
Even then, when something does happen, I find out about it when the characters talk about it over coffee rather than Weisberger narrate the situation herself.
Apart from creating one of the worst female characters I've ever read, the author also makes Andriana say 'querida' every other word just to remind you she's Brazillian in case you forgot after all the meaningless mentions.
The book could have been a third shorter if she deleted half the 'querida's.
Clearly one data point* does not make a trend.1.5/5 Dire.*because The Devil Wears Prada was good fun.
Not realistic and sometimes frustratingly so.I mean isn't kind of ridiculous for a writer to write with three characters that are three different versions of most girls perfection?
It's a fun silly read but at points I was just angry at the fact that a writer would so casually write about three perfect girls with problems that are, well, still within the realm of perfection.
this is the story of three girls who make a decision to basically change their lives in one year - the chronic commitment-phobe will be engaged, the serial monogamist will go on a "fuck tour", and the one in the perfect relationship will do .
it's a little too perfect, a few too many cliches, and way too many moments where adi exclaims "quierda".
i wanted to like it, i really, really did.
but i read it quickly and it was both because i wanted to get it over with, and because i just didn't care about the characters.
Part of that was because I didn't want to start a book in 2012 and have it count towards my 2013 goals so I was trying to end the year with a clean slate.
During a conversation with Leigh and Adriana over drinks, it is decided that since she's only been with 3 men in her life, she needs to use her travels as the opportunity to stop seeing every man as husband material and just have a series of "affairs": one from each continent, except she gets a pass for Antarctica.
Lauren Weisberger wrote one of the greatest chic lit stories of all time; The Devil Wears Prada, then begins her downhill slope with Everyone Worth Knowing to end up and the very bottom of the mountain with this piece of trash.
Lauren Weisberger, the author, even mentions Candace Bushnell in her book when describing the Samantha/Adriana character's future job.
Then I read a book like this which makes writing even a mildly interesting novel seem effortless.I'm sorely disappointed with "Chasing Harry Winston".
why must you write such ugly people.
there's leigh, who we start off with, who is like a totally neurotic version of andy from the devil wears prada.
while her friends make life-changing resolutions, she just thinks of things she'd like to change.
right.the other girls are just as awful.
and the poor not-fat fat one has been dumped by her asshole-loser of a boyfriend and decides to go on a world-wide excursion to sleep with as many men as humanly possible.
i liked it much better than devil wears prada but not enough to read it again.
It is none of the three.The three, supposedly heroine, girls are tarts and there is no nicer way to describe them; none has anything that might be likable, their only dream in life is scoring the biggest diamond; it does not really matter whom from, as long as it's big and expensive.Each time one object is mentioned the author felt forced to mention a fashionable and/or outrageously expensive brand.The plot is weak, several scenes are stupidly stupid.
And the overall did not held any interest and was boring.That was my first and last book from this author.
All the "nice guys" got to me!
That nearly every man (even one night stands?) seemed to be overly considerate and romantic and unbeliveable in the least kinda wanted to make me gag a little.
A mostly predictable plotline, and characters that are one-dimensional take away from the enjoyment.
Having said that, it was a fun story about fabulous neurotic characters (who while annoying, you do want to root for) and their fabulous neurotic fairytale lives.
I wouldn't spend money on the book, but I would recommend it to any woman looking for something fun and light with a few hours to kill.
This is the first Lauren Weisberger book I've read, so I don't have the ability to compare it to The Devil Wears Prada or any of her other titles. I loved this book! It's a light and fluffy read. I liked that the characters all had such different personalities, you got to follow separate stories and become invested in each separately for different reasons.Some parts were quite predictable, but I loved it regardless.
Good book that makes you laugh a lot sometimes, but at some point in my reading process, I got bored... Just because there are too many long paragraphs to say nothing wich was kind of disappointing...I remember reading it when I was 15 and loving it !This is how you know you grow up :)
I can handle a great deal of questionable material in my reading, if I feel like it has some merit. Within the first fifty pages, this book has superfluous language and sexual content that really had no redeeming quality. I set it aside without finishing.
Un petit livre un peu "feel good", très drôle! Dans le même style que Le Diable s'habille en Prada (du même auteur), ça passe vite, les personnages sont attachants et une narration à 3 personnages. Bref un livre à amener sur la plage!
