https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1301.Moneyball
Michael Lewis follows the story of general manager Billy Bean and his 2002 Oakland As, a low budget baseball team that managed to win their division going away.
What is remarkable is that Bean built his team focusing on sabermetrics, not home runs and RBIs. He knew he did not have money to compete with the Yankees of the world and assembled a team of Harvard brainiacs to read stats in order to then assemble the best low cost baseball team his money could buy.
The best two up and coming teams with stocked farm systems who have entire teams of Harvard brainiacs at their disposal running stats: the Cubs and Astros.
“The pleasure of rooting for Goliath is that you can expect to win. The pleasure of rooting for David is that, while you don’t know what to expect, you stand at least a chance of being inspired.” This book came out in 2003, and the movie version came out in 2011; yet, it is amazing to me that despite the success shown by the Oakland As under the guidance of Billy Beane, baseball, for the most part, is still focusing on the wrong things. Just recently the manager of the New York Mets, Terry Colli
These players had a menagerie of interesting things wrong with them that had other clubs looking to get rid of them, which made them perfect for Billy Beane.
As the Royals made their way through the playoffs in the American league in 2015, they encountered two teams that depended on the home run to win ball games.
The Royals hit 95 home runs in 2014, which placed them dead last at 30th among major league baseball teams.
This is one of the best baseball books I have ever read, and that is saying something.
Because Oakland is a small-market team, Bean must use his brain to tease out the players who can help his team, at a reasonable cost.
Must-read for any true baseball fan, and a source of hope for fans of small-market teams.
Maybe the next level in the expanding realm of the sort of baseball analysis someone like Billy Bean might employ to get an edge over wealthier franchisesIt would seem to have almost nothing to do with their biceps muscles or fast-twitch fibers or even their vision, which, for most baseball players is largely the same.
By coming up with new ways to grade performance and ignoring things that other teams deemed flaws like being overweight or having a peculiar throwing motion, the A’s went after low dollar high-impact players who made them one of the winningest teams with the lowest payroll in baseball.The sport has always had a weird intersection of nerd and jock, and this story illustrates that dynamic very well as Beane and his staff decided to trust the numbers rather than conventional wisdom.
It’s a great book not just for sports fans, but for anyone who likes stories about people trying to shake up an established way of doing things.
Beane’s revolution didn’t result in a championship (for which Beane is often unfairly maligned), but it help change the game of baseball, a sport that is historically resistant to transformation.
It’s a testament to the impact of Lewis’s book that the title has become a shorthand of sorts for the entire sabermetric movement that has altered the way players are watched, judged, and paid.Like all of Michael Lewis’s books, Moneyball is addictively readable.
There are, it seems, a lot of innumerate luddites in the baseball world who couldn’t stand the way Beane (and others like him) viewed their game.
Beane and the A’s have not won a World Series since the publication of Moneyball.
The reverse is also true: base stealing attempts and sacrifice bunts are no-no’s in the world of sabermetrics precisely because they have the effect of potentially shortening an inning, leading to a lower probability of runs scored.
So the story here is definitely interesting, but like I said, the argument in favor of a more objective approach to baseball decision-making is something that I already subscribe to (Yeah, Science!), so the argument itself does become rather repetitive.Being a baseball fan, though, there are a few things I did enjoy, specifically Billy Beane trying to steal Kevin Youkilis out from under the noses of the Red Sox brass.
Almost every book on randomness I have read had a reference to Moneyball and I had built up my own version about this story (I had even told a few people that version!) and it imagined everybody doing what Billy Beane was doing, and Billy Beane doing some sort of probability distribution among all players and randomly picking his team, winning emphatically, and thus proving that a truly random pick of players is the equivalent of a true-simulation of the market and just like how no considered selection of stock picks can ever outperform the market in the long run, a truly random representation of the baseball market cannot be outperformed by the interventionist methods of other teams over a long season.
That skill is as valuable to a reporter as a baseball player's on-base percentage was to the Oakland Athletics.The story follows the Oakland A's during the 2002 baseball season, which was when their general manager, Billy Beane, was following a different set of principles for assembling a team than the majority of the league.
"I made one decision based on money in my life -- when I signed with the Mets rather than go to Stanford -- and I promised I'd never do it again." After several disappointing seasons as a player, Beane decided he would rather be a scout, and quit playing to work his way up in the A's front office.Another interesting story was that of A's first baseman Scott Hatteberg.
What bothers me, as a recovering baseball fanatic, is that I don’t enjoy the game that utilizes the approaches that are proposed in this book.Moneyball describes how the general manager of the Oakland A’s, Billy Beane, has been able to use sabermetrics (statistical analysis originated by Bill James and others) to more intelligently draft players and win games.According to the proponents of this new approach:1) offense is more important than pitching; 2) defense hardly matters at all; 3) the most important baseball statistic is on-base percentage, followed by slugging percentage; 4) stealing bases should not be attempted because it is not worth the risk; 5) the same goes for the hit-and-run; 6) never sacrifice because it is not worth giving up the out; 7) scouts are unnecessary; and 8) line-ups and game strategy are dictated to the manager by the general manager and his statistical analysts, making managers almost as unnecessary as scouts.Beane and his statistical guru, and not the scouts, decide who should be drafted.
It's just that the stories about hiring and trading for good baseball players started to sound all the same after a while.Billy Beane was the general manager during the late 1980's, early 1990's.
That is to say, he combined data with statistical approaches, and uncovered many correlations and relationships that gave Billy Beane a better idea of the relative values of players.Whereas many general managers listened to their scouts' advice, they would often judge a player not by their playing ability, but by a set of factors; speed, hitting, fielding--and even by their body type, appearance and mannerisms.
I read the book and then immediately watched the movie, and I can confirm that (once again) the book is better than its silver screen counterpart, even when its written by the legendary Aaron Sorkin.A little about why this book was important to me personally.
I am not a baseball fan, but I do work in professional sports, and specifically deal with analytics to now measure things which used to be very hand-wavvy.This book can actually be a nail-biter at times.
If you like sports, sure, but I like how it focussed on the business of baseball.I don't know.
It was one of those impulsive reads because I was in the perfect mood for it.
Ex: “The batter’s box was a cage designed to crush his spirit.” Plus, as a poet, I always feel guilty reading books like this when I could/should be reading Proust or Shakespeare…But:Overall, I really enjoyed  Moneyball, and I’m glad I read it.
Bill James, this smartypants non-athletic geek, challenges the traditional way of thinking about baseball, subverting “the foolishness of many conventional baseball strategies.” With the most pitiful bank account in the AL West, Oakland A’s listen to James, apply his theories, and improve exponentially.
Anyway, James, The A’s, and now the Red Sox, operate—thrive—by challenging conventional thinking and looking for ways to locate and manipulate inefficiencies in the baseball market.
The book details how Beane and a few trusted associates began looking at the game in a different way.
In this way, they were able to build winning teams using players that were overlooked or discarded by wealthier or less skilled organizations.While straightforward statistical analysis is interesting enough to me (see my review of Baseball Between The Numbers), where Moneyball shines is it's more detailed investigations into the development of statistical analysis in baseball, and some of the individual players who made up the A's successful 2002 squad.
Really enjoyed this, partly because reading a baseball book in October when your team is in the playoffs gives you a great high and partly because I was surprisingly and honestly fascinated by the science of sabermetrics.
Science and math have never been my strong points, but like Jurassic Park or The Martian, I was nevertheless intrigued.
Coupled with the handful of recognizable players scattered through the book, I had a good time with this one.
It's not nearly as accurate to the book as it should be, but that's an adaptation for you.October 2016 Baseball Book Club group read
I found this book extremely interesting, especially since I didn't read it until eight years after it came out, meaning I knew how all the draft picks and other players mentioned in the book panned out (a topic on which a good deal has now been written).
Only my rule of always reading the book before seeing the movie prompted me pick it up now, a decision I don't regret.The book had some interesting tidbits I wasn't aware of, such as where the term sabremetrics came from ("The name derives from SABR, the acronym of the Society for American Baseball Research") and the origin story for Rotisserie Baseball ("1980 a group of friends, led by Sports Illustrated writer Dan Okrent, met at La Rotisserie Française, a restaurant in Manhattan, and created what became known, to the confusion of a nation, as Rotisserie Baseball").
I fucking hate watching sports. Hate it.Then how is it that this book, about applying pertinent statistical analyis to creating baseball teams and playing basesball, so captivated me? It's a testament to a) the skill of the author, Michael Lewis, but also b) the unequivocal appeal of the underlying story: how hard it is to change the status quo (and how one can succeed despite that) and the man Lewis profiles, Billy Beane.A fantastic narrative for fans of spectator sports or folks like me who'd rather clean a toilet bowl with his tongue than watch a ball game.
Boy did I read Michael Lewis' Moneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game at the right time: January.(The off-season.)Over the last two years, I've made a real effort to learn about sports.
Lewis explains that there are outsiders and insiders, and the insiders want nothing to do with the horn-rimmed glasses wearing, ivy league educated, statistic gathering nerds that point out that teams can win more games paying less if they pay attention to these few undervalued skills that have been tied to wins.What makes Moneyball work is that its central figure, Billy Beane, is actually an insider.
In other words, Beane's approach is to find what is undervalued around the league and exploit that to the benefit of his ballclub.
However, these days that is not necessarily the case, yet the specific traits Beane looked for in players at that time has come to be known as the 'Moneyball' approach, whether that is appropriate or not (I lean towards 'not').Many traditionalists (I'm looking at you Joe Morgan) dismiss the book and Beane's methods, but are erroneous to do so.
It's an interesting read and should be required for any true baseball fan, if only to see what all the fuss is about.
And after you have seen the movie, you ought to read the book.
What makes Billly Beane and Paul DePodesta such great heroes in this story is how they see past the superficiality and bring out the value of people like Chad Bradford, Scott Hatteberg, Jeremy Brown and Kevin Youkilis.
I was too into the story to really notice, but the semi-frequent use of the f-word may be the only thing some people see if they read this.
I know next to nothing about baseball, and less than that about statistics, but this book about applying new statistical thinking in baseball to the selection of a winning team (the Oakland A's) was absolutely riveting reading for me. Michael Lewis is just that good.
A wee bit all over the place and rambling but more than made up for by the fascinating subject matter.
Unfortunately, Beane’s baseball career was a series of trades to teams who didn’t know what to do with a decent player who didn’t really want to be there.As General Manager, Beane decided in 2002 that doing it the old-fashioned way just wasn’t cutting it.
Basing their new philosophy on the writings of historian and statistician (and baseball lover) Bill James, Beane and DePodesta looked at the stats of the players in a way that most people didn’t.
Some people maybe not comfortable with the writing style in this book, jumping from one subject to another without smooth main story.I am not a professional baseball fan although I enjoy reading some Japanese high school baseball manga.
If the answer is simple "by using sabermetrics", there won't be necessary to write a thick book.
No worry, Billy Beane still had a lot of to do although he was supported by sabermetrics mages behind him.I admit the author could delivery the story in interesting way, sometimes I forget this is a non fiction book.
They do not have the cash of teams like the Yankees or Red Sox so they can not afford much in the way of scouting and even if they do scout they do not have the money to sign the best players (actually I mean the players the rich team want, so forget the word "best")...
these were all new ideas at one time and once a team has good success, it becomes a "Revolutionary Idea!!
Its just a guy running a poor ballclub that needs to come up with a new idea.
Has phenomenal insight on the inner workings of the front office of baseball. Additionally it offers an incredible perspective into the complex world of baseball stats. I feel like I understand baseball waaaaaaaaaaaaay better because of reading this book. A must read for any baseball fan, and a great read for any sport fan!
Where most baseball teams rely on scouts and "wisdom" like "This guy is good looking," Beane uses some hard data by way of stats, and looks at them in a way most other baseball professionals can't seem to bring themselves to.
While it's an interesting look inside baseball, that's not all it's about.
I love the idea of someone taking a cold hard look at something and realizing that the "traditions" don't have any logical basis.
So, recommended to baseball fans, people interested in statistics, and those who are intrigued by the idea of finding new ways to look at things and keeping an open mind.
Having given an insight into Billy’s & his assistant Paul’s back stories in first 50 pages he sincerely tries to find answers in the rest, to a very sincere question which has been puzzling whole of the baseball community for years How in the world one of the poorest teams in Baseball, Oakland A’s, win so many games?, but beauty of the book is he doesn't try to answer this in pure baseball lingo but with human emotion, connecting all the dots between Billy Beane, Paul, scouts, managers, players and everyone else involved in this ball game, very interestingly.As for writing I agree it’s sometimes overwhelming with author trying to fill pages and pages with statistics’ jargon only to prove how important it is to understand the orthodox methods and again to prove them wrong.
To most people, this book is about stats, how some stats are inadequate, and moreover, how important stats are ignored.
The real story for me is how people with fewer means succeed.
It is more than an undercurrent in the book, and it is sadly ignored by most readers.
The Oakland A's took baseball's detritus--fat guys, skinny guys, short guys--and composed championship-caliber teams with them.
Moneyball to me isn't about the stats, it's about making the best of what you have.
But the coolness of these new numbers overlooks the true content of the book.The real story is about baseball's castoffs.
Simultaneously among the top 10 sports books and the top 10 economics books. Without Lewis's typical Princetonian smugness.
The inside story of the unlikely success of the Oakland Athletics 2002 team at the hands of General Manager Billy Beane and his unconventional talent evaluation methodology that enabled him to field a division winning team at bargain basement salaries.
Ultimately the reason Billy Beane was successful was that he took a well reasoned but unconventional approach and took an active hand in managing the outcome.
What I found a little frustrating was when the author injected himself into the story.
And if you are not a baseball fan then this book will likely only have limited appeal.
