https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28734.Magic_s_Price
But just fucking once, couldn't he have been selfish and not punished for it?(view spoiler)[Such as when he promised Savil that he would add to her shields but got distracted by Stefen.
WTF (hide spoiler)]I liked Stefen's parts.
You're not allowed to be perfectly happy.Massive spoilers ahead, also, tw for rape.(view spoiler)[Basically, Vanyel was all into facing Leareth and 'protecting Valdemar' that Stefen notices that he's changed.
To show that Vanyel can count on Stefen?
I know it's not the most important part of the story, but coming hard before Vanyel's face off with Leareth, it made the whole thing anti-climactic.
Review may contain spoilers for those who have not read the first two books in the Last Herald-Mage series.
Vanyel gets a new boyfriend.
Sure, there's a lot of other stuff about ruling a kingdom steward-style for the ailing king and loads of heroic feats including surviving torture, defeating an entire army with several powerful mages, and dying a bloody death.
But mostly, Vanyel gets an awesome new boyfriend.
(hide spoiler)] Because Stefen is not a Herald.
While he loves Vanyel, Stefen's first--and only--action is to for cover when the two of them are facing one of those armies I mentioned earlier.
For instance, an especially egregious (and significant!) example turns up when (view spoiler)[Vanyel "suddenly" notices that he's the last Herald-Mage.
when they were already down to 4 Herald-Mages, nobody was worried when two of them suddenly died mysteriously; and 3.
nobody cared that no new recruits had been turning up for training for YEARS??
Anyway - these books can be fun, as long as you totally turn off any powers of critical thinking.
Go with the flow, try to think like a 15 year old girl, have a few sniffles, watch you brain bleed out your ears for awhile.
I suppose you could interpret the ending as a sad one—in my opinion, the results were unavoidable and unsurprising.I was fond of Vanyel as a character.
Lackey has written more books sent in Valdemar, but I’m not sure that I’ll continue on without him.
I was glad to see him get a new love interest in Stefan and squeeze in a bit of happiness around his duties.
However, his being the be-all and end-all of all government duties in Valdemar seemed a little over the top.
What I am hating is the main character, Vanyel.
Frankly the ending suck, so if anyone is expecting a HEA or HFN, this series is not for you—it's a tear-jerker.
It's one thing to give up your life for the greater good, it's another thing to give up your afterlife defending the kingdom that will totally forget about you within a month's time.
Sure, they'll mourn for you...for a minute and then it's back to "omg, we need another mage to defend us." Lame.
I feel so frustrated reading this series that I kinda wish Vanyel just died in the first book and saved me the trouble of reading the sequels.
This initial fantasy trilogy is a really fun read.
Medren and one of his instructors have tested Stefen's ability, and believe he can do this constistently, so they bring him to Vanyel's attention, figuring that Stefen can help Randale.
What Vanyel doesn't know is that Medren has an ulterior motive.In the years since Vanyel's promotion, he's made some enemies, and a few attempts have been made on his life.
Medren thinks his uncle is overreacting, and knows that Vanyel is very lonely.
Stefen has had a crush on Vanyel for years, but never had the nerve to approach him, even though Medren offered to introduce them.
Seriously, I don't think that Vanyel and Stefen's relationship is as well developed as it could have been.
I was debating giving this book a three, because I did enjoy parts, but in the end I decided it just wasn't good enough.
But let's be honest, there are a lot of authors who come up with good characters.
I can recommend much better options.
Final Rating: 4.25/5   “I only know that without you, no rank or fame would be worth having.”***“As long as I can be with you”  Well, this one outright slaughtered me (and healed me again). But in the end, I will talk about mostly about good and the bad, as it is the end of a series.Let's start with good things:► This is a character driven story. There is a lot of focus on characters and their surrounding families, royalty, other heralds and companions. A lot of in fact. Which is very much appre
► The fact that the main story started happening around 70% of the book, until which they were busy dealing with all the other characters; but things were moving pretty damn fast for the last 30%Something that I believe I should do as a heads up to anyone who has age difference problems: they are 16 or so apart, for which there is actually a good explanation.
Van's nephew, Medren - also Stefen's best friend - is quite desperate to help his uncle find actual happiness, considering Stefen has been crushing on him for years, apparently.
Having to live on for +60 years after Van died defending Valdemar.
:( *hugs him so much*My heart has also been breaking for the other Heralds when they, thanks to the web Van modified, realized that Van is in danger (and not being able to help.
:) I also love the fact that Jisa and Brightstar knew that Van is her/his father and that he got some (more) love and support due to this.Yeah, this book broke my heart and will stay with me for a while.
Cheesy, tawdry, melodramatic with a hero who supposedly resembles a cross between Fabio, an elf and Gaston from the Disney Beauty & The Beast. I LURVED these so hard when I was a teenager, you better believe it.There's still a little voice inside, today, who says "But... butbutbut...gay protagonist! Romantic storylines and heroism and GAY(yay)!"
With the way the relationship between a Herald and his Companion is portrayed it seemed awfully much like another case of author convenience here.
*twitch*THEN, in book two we have the stupid Herald that is beating the kid and his Companion with a whip.
He isn't mad with grief, his brother didn't just die, he isn't taking revenge on a murderer, he is beating a Companion and his Chosen.
He blew the whole thing out of proportion and between that and the deal with Savil a little bit later, I just about walked away from the book because my liking of Vanyel had come close to rock bottom.
(hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[And don’t even get me started on Vanyel’s “dramatic end.” All we are told of his Final Strike – the thing that the entire series has been leading up to since halfway through book 1 – is a yell and flash of pain from Stefen.
The book could have been much more engaging if certain scenes had instead been told through Vanyel’s eyes, like his (view spoiler)[torture and rape or final battle.
We also see how Vanyel sets in motion the wardings that keep mages from operating in Valdemar (and if you've read some of the later Valdemar novels first, as I had, you understand what that means to the series as a whole), as well as the origin of the Karsite prejudice against any of their own Gifted.I think I liked this one the best out of the three, even though in the end, it's kind of sad.
As the final Act of an epic storyline, this novel was, in a word, disappointing.Plot-wise, it was anticlimactic, and utilized a literary device I particularly dislike: (view spoiler)[setting up the climax, and then cutting away to the POV of another character, who arrives on the scene only to witness the aftermath.
(hide spoiler)]Character-wise, I enjoyed the character of Stef, but felt he lacked depth.
At that point, too much much was glossed over in the haste to get on to the climax.
It felt hurried and incomplete.I did enjoy the story, however.
one of the big things i was missing in all three books in this series was some kind of central plot line that the books were following.
when i'm reading a fantasy series i kinda want some deep plot in the background that the books follow slowly but surely.
in this last book some portions felt really rushed and some things happened that just seemed useless and not important for the story.
not entirely happy with how this ended and just in general how it all played out.
still enjoyed the beginning and some parts of it though.
2.5hey ho i marathon read the last book of this series and tbh??? still wont change my opinion the plot was rlly lame, it has lots of sad gays tendencies, there was a lot of love at first sight bullshit going on, plus all character interactions felt kind of flat and repetitive ://// it might just be me having way too high expectations for it but tbh? it was kinda mediocre still not bad tho, just not terribly good either
2.5hey ho i marathon read the last book of this series and tbh??? still won´t change my opinion the plot was rlly lame, it has lots of sad gays tendencies, there was a lot of love at first sight bullshit going on, plus all character interactions felt kind of flat and repetitive ://// it might just be me having way too high expectations for it but tbh? it was kinda mediocre still not bad tho, just not terribly good either
This is the third book of her trilogy, the Last Herald Mage.
However, this last book has definite problems, perhaps from being rushed to finish—at least that’s my guess.
Anyway, Herald Vanyel drops out of character about two-thirds of the way through the book.
From being a super-cautious very through, suspicious guardian of Valdemar, he blithely fails to see that the sequential deaths of the remaining Herald Mages is not a coincidence.
Some kind of poison dart brings down Yfandes, but how Vanyel is rendered unconscious we don’t know.
It was a rushed and awkward ending to an otherwise beautiful fantasy trilogy.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book. The Last Herald Mage Trilogy was fantastic.
I love it. It is really sad, but really good at the same time. Vanyel reminds me of Tylendel in his last moments. The way his obsesion with revenge has taken over. However, unlike Tylendel he has 'Fandes to set him right. Also he listens to Stefen more than 'Lendel listened to him. (view spoiler)[I think that Savil was right and that Stefen carries Tylendel's spririt because he knew about Tylendel's dying moment." (hide spoiler)]
Full review here:http://jamesgenrebooks.blogspot.com/2...While it reads like a series of vignettes, it's still a solid end to Vanyel's tale.
(hide spoiler)]What I have loved through all three books, however—and what makes me give this last one a four-star rating—is the fact that for the first time, I am reading a story about a manly man (who isn't into fighting and muscles and shooting and blood), a man who is openly gay (but doesn't fiddle around making excuses ) and at last, a man who is strong.
(hide spoiler)] It all went out the window right about then, as if Ms Lackey was tired of writing this story and wanted it finished.Perhaps if Stef could step out of the pages and come sing me the final song?
Supported by religion, he claims that all users of magic are evil, and so are Valdemar’s Herald-Mages.
Vanyel realizes that because of the kingdom’s open and supportive nature about it use of and users of magic in the kingdom, that it will need the alliance of surrounding kingdom’s in order to win this war.
(view spoiler)[As Karse’s refugees flood to Valdemar to escape certain death, Van works with three powerful Herald-Mages, his aunt Savil, and the Guardians Lissandra and Kilchas.
Valdemar will only avoid war and the overwhelming army of Master Dark if Herald-Mage Vanyel pays Magic’s Price.
this book like, changed plot halfway through, from focusing on the growing relationship between Vanyel's new boytoy and Randale's declining health to the Greatest Threat to Valdemar Ever.
how was i ever supposed to care?Vanyel, Savil and Randale died so unceremoniously too, I didn't really feel sad?
I never felt anything for Randale or Shavri anyway, and I'm pretty sure I disliked Shavri by the end lol.
Like okay, here's two characters who are absolutely the most important people in Vanyel's life and they never feature in the story in important ways lol.
Audiobook ReviewI am writing this review after listening to all three books in this series.
I’m glad I waited to review because I have adjusted my ratings from 5 to 4 stars on the overall story.
The narrator does a great job; 5 stars for him.Vanyel was a put through the ringer in the first book and his growth and recovery in the 2nd book to become the hero of the land was great.
What I didn’t understand was why the author built Vanyel up as a hero for 80% of the series, only to take some of that away from him at the end of the 3rd book.
I rated this one only 3 stars, though, due to the horrific rape scene at the end.
If the author wanted to deal with themes of rape and recovery, better to have it happen earlier in the book (or earlier in the series as a whole) so that the ramifications to the character could be properly addressed.
(Surely Vanyel's work as a Herald Mage has put him in situations with scummy individuals capable of acts like this before.) If Lackey was simply looking to test her character's strength and resilience leading up to the final battle, there are better ways she could have done that.
He's supposedly the reincarnation of Tylendel, but who cares, he's awesome all on his own.And the story comes full circle, as Vanyel goes through something very like the situation that was Tylendel's undoing in the first book.
It's painful to read, especially since you know what's coming, but Vanyel manages to avoid going down the same revenge-driven path as Tylendel—interestingly enough, he is shaken out of his vengeful state partly by the actions of his enemy, which just goes to show that evil contains the seeds of its own destruction, although Stefen's love for him is an essential part of it as well.
I figure that any book that can make me cry (that ending, like of course I was bawling) should get I high rating, but I have some issues with it that are kind of preventing that.I found that I could wrap my head around the magic, which just lead to me scanning over paragraphs about it.
And of course, that one pretty shocking inclusion that I was not expecting; I didn't have anything against it necessarily, I just don't think it was important, and the same ending could have been reached without it happening at all...So all up, Van is still my baby, I cried, I really enjoyed the trilogy but this is the weakest of the three imo
I *was* a little torn on my rating and I think 4 stars is rounding up for me because there was a resurgence of the plot point that bothered me in the Vows & Honor books I've read so far, which, prepare for triggers people, is sexual assault in the form of a gang rape.
I *will* say I thought the character reacted much more realistically and was actually shown to be dealing with emotional wounds after as compared to Vows & Honor where people seemed strangely unaffected (yes, people, plural, ugh), but...was that really necessary in my nice cheesy fantastical romp with telepathic horse-like creatures?
This is my favorite book in the Last Herald Mage trilogy.
Vanyel finally quit whining in this book.
I didn't think Van would ever suck it up, buttercup, and quit whining all the time.
This book reads like an after school special in so many places.
I can see why this series was considered groundbreaking back in the 90s, but it's just not my cup of willowbark tea.
It's one I have meant to read for a long time.
A lot.Re-read June 2017: I didn't mind the book as much this time but it still isn't my favorite Lackeybook.
