https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12617.Manufacturing_Consent
I passed up a chance to buy this book some twenty years ago, and have not been able to locate a copy since.
A corporate bookselling entity has taken over an independent website for book reviews.
In no time, they are converting it from a meeting point of book-lovers to criticise and discuss books independently, to a marketing portal hosting fawning reviews of any rag they care to publish.The corporate behemoths, for whom everything is either raw material to be exploited or a product to be consumed, is bent on polluting everything including the field of the intellect.
On the even more intellectual edge of the left, Noam Chomsky has relentlessly fought against the blindness of American foreign policy and how the press manipulates public opinion to endorse and encourage catastrophes such as the Vietnam War (and more recently, the disaster of the two Iraq Wars, the War in Afghanistan, etc.) This book explains how the press (even when it takes a slightly more critical view of events), is still at heart manipulating the truth in service of power.
I've been a journalist for 15 years now, and I've often wondered how it is that the mass media in the United States manage to project the image of being defenders of democracy while actually deterring it.Having just read "Manufacturing Consent: The Political Economy of the Mass Media," by Noam Chomsky and Edward Herman, I finally understand as thoroughly as I've always wanted to.Where to begin ...
The blind faith in authorities helps tremendously.Chomsky has defined the new kind of influence and media control as a propaganda model.
In den modernen Medien ist es wichtig, die unbequemen und tief gehenden Fakten nie zu weit aus ihren Höhlen kriechen zu lassen.
Dafür eignet es sich am besten, sie in die kürzesten Newsflashs zu schlechter Sendezeit und in Nebenspalten mit 10 Wörtern zu erwähnen.
Bis sie fix in den Glauben und die Lebenseinstellung der Menschen eingeflossen ist.
Eine erwachte Zivilgesellschaft kann sich solidarisieren und mit ihrer schieren Masse positive Veränderungen erzwingen.
Google kann die Meinungsbildung eines Menschen quer über alle Plattformen und Altersklassen hin beeinflussen.
Politicians are like hookers. You can't be one unless you can pretend to like people while you're fucking them. In summary the propaganda model works like this: Bullshit politician with biased information is seen as an expert. Expert gives bullshit to news organization to inform the public. News organization repeats bullshit with cute voices and opinions. We all become stupid, except Chomsky. He writes this book. You read it. Become depressed and kill yourself. I don't think I can do a serious review on this book.
This was one of the books that had a great impact on my life.
The authors come at this material from the standpoint that the media functions primarily as a powerful tool for social control.
The world view presented in the media is essentially that of the ruling classes and the rest of us plebes are locked out of it all.
We are passive consumers of the bullshit being fed to us by large corporations and other powerful interests.
Read this book and then see if you can watch TV or read a paper in the same way again...I doubt it.
পুনরপাঠ সমাপত। নোয়াম চমসকি এবং এডওয়ারড এস. হারমযানের এই বইটি বিশববযাপী অতযনত জনপরিয় এবং গণমাধযম চিনতাধারার ওপর খুবই পরভাবশালী। উদারবাদের পতাকাধারী মারকিন যুকতরাষটরের গণমাধযমের আসল চরিতর জনতার সামনে তুলে ধরেছেন এই দু'জন মূলত, গণমাধযমের পরোপাগানডা মডেল উপসথাপন পুরো পৃথিবীতে গণমাধযমসংশলিষট 'শুভ' ভাবনাকে ধাককা দিয়েছেন। পাঁচটি ধাপে একটি দেশের সকল দলকানা এবং তথাকথিত নিরপেকষ সংবাদমাধযমগুলো জনতাকে বলির পাঁঠা বানায়। আর নিজেদের সবারথকে সদা রাখে সমুননত।সেই ছলচাতুরির ইতিবৃতত মারকিনদেশের পরেকষাপটে লিখেছেন এই

I say it took smart people because the amount of data gathered and the analysis to tie to together was quite astounding.The summary of the book is as follows: The US-media is a controlled information relay system (propaganda).
They make sense to me (I agree with the authors).Most of the filters come from the fact that each media organization is a business and has to be profitable.
Another example is the fact that news gathering is expensive.
Nevertheless, for the sake of cost, news organizations read those sources as "authoritative" simple for cost.
If you can slog through it (not that it's written poorly, it's just that the subjects that are covered have, to most people, the intrinsic appeal of lint analysis) you will be rewarded with a new way to look at the mass media and a new framework with which you can apply your own critical analysis.Congratulations.
I first added this to my 'books to read' list after watching the movie, "Good Will Hunting".
They sift through a lot of information, wading through fact and fabrication that they seem to slip into place without effort.
Not only does this represent their bank of information on the three case studies (among others), it shows that they can place that information relevantly and do so in a way that is atmospherically readable.
I enjoy a lot of books.
I enjoy them for a lot of reasons.
With Manufacturing Consent, I enjoyed reading this book for the joy of how it was written.
In Manufacturing Consent, Herman and Chomsky present an outdated and flawed thesis asserting government and corporate control over mass media to promote a right-wing agenda, yet still makes some valid points regarding propaganda in the media.
By cherry-picking a handful of egregious media missteps related to foreign policy, the authors hope to convince readers of the media's complicity in pushing a right-wing corporate/government agenda to deceive the American public.One problem with all this stems from the book having been written in the late 1980's and only lightly revised in 2000.
A very thorough, comprehensive account of how "media serve, and propagandize on behalf of, the powerful societal interests that control and finance them."The weak point of the book is that the examples discussed are so old (Laos, Cambodia, Nicaragua, etc) that I doubt the book will be accessible to Gen Y or younger.
Not one mainstream media organisation contextualized the case in any way: the general public opinion therefore was that "If the FBI want him he must be a bad guy and the NZ government is entitled to break the law, and lie about it, in order to catch bad guys." The Gen Y kids I teach have no knowledge about the issue, and don't care.
Brilliant analysis by one of the great scientists of all time.
Totally refutes the myth of the "liberal media" and secondly, the myth that this (nonexistent) liberal media is responsible for defeat in the Vietnam War. Clarifies that the war was not a mistake but a crime as defined by the Geneva Conventions (and common decency, I might add).
Chomsky has consistently pointed out that in poll after poll the American public is well to the left of the supposed "liberal media." Beware of polls with trick or leading questions.
Much more in this classic, indispensable work, but it's been a while since I read.

A superb read on the media and the propaganda machine within our so-called "democratic" or "free" society. Meticulously researched and cited this book gave me mental push-ups for about 6 months while I chugged through it. Accessible in some areas, daunting in others, this book has a tremendous amount to offer. Not for the feint of heart. If you haven't read Chomsky before, I'd recommend listening to his lectures and/or reading some of his shorter works. I felt smarter and stupider after finishing this book.
Não estava preparado para este livro gigante.
O ponto central é bem importante, mostrar como a mídia serve para passar o conceito que o estado quer apresentar.
Retratando uma guerra de maneira parcial, não citando um lado em um debate, tendo dois pesos e duas medidas, etc.
O que não esperava é que fossem detalhar tão profundamente cada exemplo citado – Vietnã, troca de governo na Nicarágua e Guatemala, invasão do Camboja, etc.
Estou mais acostumado com livros mais recentes e dinâmicos, que normalmente passam mais tempo explicando conceitos do que descrevendo todos os detalhes.
Boa lição, mais detalhes e história do que o necessário.
Don't get me wrong, I love Chomsky, I think he's probably the smartest person alive today, but his writing is a headache to read.
Chomsky uses a propaganda model based on what he calls "worthy" and ''unworthy" victims to describe the media's tactics.
I learned a lot about Vietnam, Cambodia, El Salvador, Guatemala, and a guy named Agca who may or may not have been hired by the Bulgarians to off the pope.I encourage anyone who has an interest in media and government relations to read it, but you must exercise patience, unless you already know something about the aforementioned topics.
نعوم تشومِسكى يُنظًر للسياسات الأمريكية البشعة المُمثلة فى عدة شعارات مثل "الحرب على الإرهاب" "السيطرة على الإعلام" و كيف تم التلاعب بأبسط المفاهيم لكن لا بأس مع عقل شعبوى مُتحكم فيه من النخبة التى تُغيب الوعى عن عمد "فلنترك لهم مشاهدة التلفاز و نجعل قيمة الحياة تتلخص فى أن يكون لديك مشتريات ذات جودة" ، عندما تسيطر على الميديا و تعكس المؤسسة التعليمية اَراء النخبة، يمكنك أن تمرر وسائلك" هى ليست طريقةأبتدعتها الولايات المتحدة.
listen, i'm disassociating as i write this and it's likely that i was in a similar state of mind half of the times i picked up this book but i'll wipe my own slate.
i admit didn't read the entire book, i got up to the part about the pessimistic coverage of the Tet Offensive, so page 240?
however there was little context for historical events, even if they served a macro-purpose in shaping the world as we know it.
if you pick up this book bear in mind that it's incredibly valuable!
but you'll need to know your history.
Interesantísimo análisis de cómo funciona la prensa estadounidense (y por ende, la prensa hegemónica mundial), explicando desde las víctimas dignas o indignas, o exponiendo la doble moral sobre hechos similares o idénticos, perpetrados por amigos o enemigos del régimen.
Cuents cómo se construyen relatos que llegan a la mayoría de la población como verdades, solamente eligiendo las historias que contar, los énfasis y pequeñas mentiras o falta de investigación que apoyan el relato oficial.
A pesar de haber sido escrito a fines de los 80, uno lo podría relacionar con muchos acontecimientos actuales.
If I'd have just read the first chapter of the book, I would have given it a 3 or 4 star review.
Unfortunately, I think the language and writing style employed by the authors leads many readers to somehow assign more credibility to the content than is really merited.Which brings me to my second point - while I don't disagree with the premise of the book, I found some of the analysis to be equally as biased as the media the authors seek to discredit.
The authors spent over 300 pages describing media bias from just 3 main political news stories from the 50 years preceding the writing of the book.
One of the very rare critiques of mainstream media, presented by Noam Chomsky and Edward Herman, ‘Manufacturing Consent’ – has been a path breaking, definitive and objective model against mainstream media institutions.
A book widely which is widely acclaimed and read throughout.‘Manufacturing Consent’ is an insightful critique of history, politics and media.
The model describes five filters which justify the editorial bias: Firstly, international business owns the media outlets for their vested interests.
Thirdly, the sourcing of news, where the grant funding institutions get a routine route to news making, unlike the rest.
Lastly, the fifth filter is used which is the hostility to Communism or Socialism.
I'm a bit surprised I didn't get around to reading Manufacturing Consent years ago. I suppose I wasn't especially shocked by any of Chomsky's findings or analysis, as a 27 year old who's read a fair number of left texts, but it remains solid, necessary research, and (perhaps borne out of familiarity) I was especially taken by the sections on America's quagmiring of Laos and Cambodia. Yes, at this stage, I am probably the wrong audience, but I know, know, that if I could send it to myself 10 years ago, it would have changed my life.
indispensable. basic thesis is that cappy 'journalism' will filter out certain information as a matter of structural necessity. premise is that debate shall be fiercely encouraged within a narrow ideological window in order to achieve a conformity of opinion unseen in torturer states; opinion outside the window is to be ignored and discarded as crazed. develops ideas articulated in the two-volume PEHR.
For me personally, Noam Chomsky is without a doubt one of the greatest thinkers of our time and this book was simply mindblowing. I would even go as far as saying that this book is probably one of the best books ever produced concerning politics and media.
The motive for why these stories weren't covered by the press is simply assumed.Also, now that I'm older and have more experience with the media and politics, I think Herman and Chomsky are overlooking some things.
I think there's already way too much of this wingnut crap in the media as it is.Probably the highlight of this book is the discussion of the Vietnam War. There are many impressions Americans have of this war that are false or incomplete.
It tends to be described more as wasteful than immoral.I think Herman and Chomsky overlook the biggest media filters: pandering and sensationalism.
Only when people support the war effort will the media behave like propaganda.
"In contrast to the standard conception of the media as cantankerous, obstinate, and ubiquitous in their search for truth and their independence of authority, we have spelled out and applied a propaganda model that indeed sees the media as serving a "societal purpose", but not that of enabling the public to assert meaningful control over the political process by providing them with the information needed for the intelligent discharge of political responsibilities.
On the contrary, a propaganda model suggests that the "societal purpose" of the media is to inculcate and defend the economic, social, and political agenda of privileged groups that dominate the domestic society and the state.
Обязательно к прочтению для тех, кто хочет хотя бы немного разбираться в современном хаотичном мире, полном противоречащих друг другу заявлений политиков, лживых статей и проплаченных журналистов. Хотя критика идёт с левацких позиций, суть аргументов Хомского и Хермана возвышается над любыми политическими позициями.
... as Judge Gurfein ruled in supporting the right of the New York Times to publish the Pentagon Papers after the government had failed to show any threat of a breach of security but only the possibility of embarrassment: "a cantankerous press, an obstinate press, a ubiquitous press must be suffered by those in authority in order to preserve the even greater values of freedom of expression and the right of the people to know."
Essential reading for everyone.
