https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/660271.Through_the_Wall
A cozy, period mystery but Miss Silver is astute & insightful as usual!
Better than average Miss Silver, with two romances and two suitably unpleasant murderees and one very nasty murderer. Add a dash of blackmail, an interesting old house, a large inheritance and as Miss Silver says, a dangerous brew of "hatred- jealousy-spite- wounded affection-resentment-deep unhappiness", and you have a most enjoyable afternoon's reading.3.5stars.
Through the Wall (Miss Silver #19), Patricia Wentworth
Suddenly she finds she has inherited the fortune of an uncle she did not know, along with his house and the relatives he has been supporting for years.
Sadly, that doesn't keep murder from entering the scene, but with Miss Silver's help, the murders are solved and most everyone lives happily ever after.
This is one of a long series featuring Miss Silver, but if this one is anything to go by, they can be read independently, so I'll be looking for more of them.
If you enjoy reading mystery novels of the "cozy" genre, like those by Agatha Christie and Ngaio Marsh, you'll love this book.
Things I dislike about the cozy genre of mystery novels (with apologies to the many people who enjoy these books):1.
4. Even though the novel is sure to have a twist or two way at the end, you can usually figure out who did in the first chapters once you've narrowed down that it isn't our young lovers or the other stock characters outlined below.
Amateur sleuth always trumps well-educated detective.E. The pig-headed police officer (underling to above detective/chief) who bullies and pesters and suspects our young lovers.
Marian Brand, who has been working hard to support her mopey sister and her ne'er do well brother in law, has a very...interesting day.
First, she finds out she has inherited a house, some unpleasant relatives, and an income of about £2000 per year.
Her brother-in-law is also pissed that his wife was left nothing.
All these people are aware that if Marian dies, half her income will go to mopey Ina, and half will go back to the family.
Felix, one of the Brand family, is crazed with jealousy over a very pretty singer, who is being blackmailed.
Hard working Marian Brand is the sole heir to her late uncle's estate.
There is a lot of money 1950 style (2000 pounds a year!) and a house.
By the locking of a few doors, it has again become two houses.
Marian, her sister and her sister's lazy husband move into the other one, but who to trust?
Fortunately, Marian has met Richard Cunningham in the most romantic train wreck ever.
Blackmail and murder abound, but Miss Silver is on the scene.
This book is unique in that there is an appearance of Miss Silver's favorite niece, Ethel Burkett and Ethel's daughter, Little Josephine.
And this story was pretty wordy, but I liked the clean, crisp story line and good description and personality of each character.
It kept you guessing all along as to who would murder Helen Adrian and why.
The story starts with the main characters as Marian and Richard, who happened to become acquainted during a train wreck.
She confided in him and as she ventured on a new circumstance in life, he joined in and became part of it, even the murder investigation that came about at her new home.
It is a good read but takes some patience to keep waiting for the mystery to be solved.
I discovered Wentworth's Miss Silver mysteries several years ago and was hooked from the beginning. The books were written in the earlier part of the 20th century and are based in England. There is always a murder involved and family strife as a rule. Miss SIlver, a retired schoolteacher, with her knitting always close at hand comes in to solve the crime. It's a more homespun type of writing than Agatha Christie but if you like this type of English noir, I recommend this book and all in the series for a great whodunit.
I have enjoyed all of Patricia Wentworth 's books that I have read so far. I will be sorry to finish the Miss Silver books but I found there a few others. Miss Silver is quite a dear old lady but one must n't think she is not to be reckoned with. The other characters in her books are always different but based on the times in that period of which she writes.
Patricia Wentworth is at her best when writing the Miss Silver mysteries. She rescues the tale from being merely a love-story disguised as a mystery by adding in observations on human behavior, as well as a touch of (sometimes inadvertant) humor.
A very good Miss Silver mystery. A young woman inherits a fortune and house from an uncle she didn't know. The house is inhabited by a collection of distant cousins, several of whom are angry that they weren't remembered in the will. Murder ensues, but Miss Silver untangles the situation.
Reminiscent of the formidable Miss Marple... Without being an insipid clone. I am very interested in reading more of Miss Silver's insights into human nature and in becoming acquainted with more of the characters who inhabit her world.
My favorite of the series! The male love interest is merely a cipher, but the remaining characters are vividly and compassionately sketched.
All the very best parts of a Miss Silver mystery. And not too much coughing!
LoveLove her and love her stories. Can't wait to read more of her stories. Wish I lived in that time period and had a friend like Miss Silver
As usual,a good bookI always enjoy reading a Miss Silver mystery and this was no disappointment . Could not quite figure out who the murder was until the end.
Another charming Miss Silver mystery. Who is the killer? Why? coupled with a love story.
Love the Miss Silver mysteries.
A perfectly satisfactory visit with Miss Silver.
Both were writing cozy British murder mysteries during the same time period, both wrote stories about characters in the same social sphere, and both were pretty formulaic, but I think readers turn to them for different things.
In the Miss Silver novels, you will always be glad that the victim was murdered--they are distinctly unpleasant people--and you'll be satisfied that the killer gets their just desserts--they are also terrible.
You know, therefore, that any character who is written as particularly angelic is neither the victim nor the killer, and anyone they especially love is also safe.
This is really satisfying when you want a book where everything falls nicely into place.
Number 19 out of 32 Miss Silver mysteries, this one has a rather unique setting of a house with duplicate wings, joined together by a door on each level of the house that is locked on one side and bolted on the other (a little like those doors in hotels/motels which can be opened if two rooms are to be used as a suite).
Once again Patricia Wentworth has created characters that you like and characters that you don't like.
Blackmail comes into this one, as it does in many in this series, but the who-done-it is more of a surprise in this time.I'm working my way through the entire series, enjoying them all so far, but liking this one a little more.
Marian was barely making it through life, but her sense of responsibility recommended her to an unknown uncle who left her his fortune. He also left her his malicious, resentful relatives. Marian and her sister find themselves living cheek-by-jowl with at least one murderer. The setting of THROUGH THE WALL reminded me of a cross between OUT OF THE PAST and LADIES' BANE, but a very different jumble of cast members.
Don't know if I'm less critical of an audiobook, or if this one is just better than my previous Miss Silver, but I really enjoyed this book, although, just like the last book, Miss Silver's entrance seemed like the most forced of happenstances. Will definitely look out for more Wentworth, all the same.
I'm not sure why, but this is the first of the Silver novels I've read. It won't be my last. I found the characters quite engaging and well-drawn.It was odd though that Maud Silver didn't show up until chapter 9 and wasn't seen again until 13. It was a very classical whodunit, with lots of characters with motives, and Maud Silver showing up to find out who's the real culprit.
Another good Patricia Wentworth (not a Miss Silver novel). While formulaic, she writes in the style/formula of Agatha Christie. Plot and all subplots satisfactorily resolved. We, Americans, like those happy endings! LOL. P. Wentworth keeps you guessing as to "who done it" til the end. The author starts revealing clues to help the reader put it together for a timely resolution.
I would recommend this book to anyone who likes light english mysteries. The Miss Silver mysteries are in my home collection, and whenever I am feeling down I find her stories to be a help. Even though I may know "who done it" I enjoy her characters. In this book a poor young woman suddenly inherits a home and a fortune and a pack of jealous relatives.
For the historical mystery reader.There is Miss Marple and then there is Miss Silver. I have always found Miss Marple to be judgmental and kind of harsh. Miss Silver on the other hand is very kind.There is mystery with romance (not for Miss Silver), suspense and the history of a by gone age. I have read all of the books and loved them all.
When Marian unexpectedly comes into an inheritance and moves into the home of her recently deceased uncle, she find that danger awaits her - perhaps from one of her newly found relatives. Luckily, she has made a new friend who seems to be trustworthy, a writer named Richard Cunningham and he asks Miss Silver to get involved.
A hard-working young woman gets a Cinderella beginning to her story when an eccentric uncle she hardly knows leaves her his fortune. There are a few strings attached, including a large house of resentful relatives. Before long, a young man she met by chance and Miss Silver are the only ones she can trust.
