https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/664372.A_Soldier_s_Story
A vivid and lucid look at all the important battles and schemes behind the Allies victory of the Second World War. It amazes and horrifies me how much people do not appreciate the sacrifices made by this generation.
Bradley's unassuming and straightforward style underscores how he is portrayed by contemporary accounts.
General Bradley was known as the "G.I. General".
al.Remember, this book is Bradley's take on events.
This inner peacefulness, along with command ability, probably explains Bradley's rise to the level of senior American ground commander in Europe.
He even comments about working calculus problems for relaxation!Written in 1951, this book is superb.
Although a big book, it reads quickly.Sidebar - One of the highlights of my life was interviewing Omar Bradley for the God and Country Boy Scout Merit Badge I was working on in 1964.
BradleyFirst Published in 1951 Book Review by VIKRAM KARVEI love reading autobiographies, as there is nothing more inspiring and authentic than learning about the life, times, thoughts and views of a great person in his own words.It’s a lazy hot afternoon.
A well written autobiography, easy to follow but a few more maps would have helped. Gen. Bradley comes across as an "aw shucks" kind of guy. The narrative starts with his first battles in North Africa and continues to Sicily, Italy and his advancing above his senior, Patton. Bradley discusses his anger following Gen. Patton's embarrassing actions and later his disappointed in Gen. Montgomery's slow to start offensives. Like any book about an army general, stories about the GI in the frontlines is lost to the 'big picture' of army group maneuvers.
“A Soldier’s Story” is Bradley’s memoir of service from his arrival in North Africa in 1943 until V-E Day in May 1945.
It chronicles the anecdotes that reveal the humanity of the brass.On these pages we come to know Bradley along with those with whom he worked: Eisenhower, Patton and Montgomery, Terry Allen, Ted Roosevelt and Ernie Pyle just to name a few.
Normandy, the extent and timing of D-Day and, the invasion itself and supply charges that ended only with the German surrender have to seize the attention of any who pick up this book.Although I am sure that Bradley was circumspect in his evaluations of brother officers, he is not afraid to present his opinions.
Bradley’s work has done no less.
This is sort of "required" reading for WWII buffs because it walks you through the European theatre with the added bonus of all the high level discussions/decisions made by the brass. In addition, Bradley tells numerous stories about the politically incorrect George Patton. We were fortunate to have men like Bradley, Ike, Collins, and Hodges as well as the difficult ones like Patton and Montgomery. This is a lengthy book heavy on battle planning, strategy, etc. and little on "stories." You will learn a lot.
I usually do not like autobiographies but General Bradley elicited the help of the very skilled biographer Clay Blair to aid him in the preparation of this work. Bradley had his finger on the pulse of America for several years in a way that very few others have or will have again and his observations are wonderful to read. A word of warning to any fan of Field Marshall Bernard L. Montgomery, General Bradley was not a fan.
Read this while on a trip in which I needed one which would take some time to complete. For me it was the best book I've read on WWII covering from the African battles through the D-Day invasion, through the end of the war. Filled with details and interesting facts from the person who was in charge of the campaign in Europe. Recommended for those wanting to know more about this important part of US (and world) history.
A very detailed description of the WW II battles in North Africa and Europe which General Bradley was involved. It was very informative and most fascinating when he commented on the personalities of Generals Patton and Montgomery. However, the minutiae regarding some of the battles and strategy made it difficult to follow and to stay focused.
Very good narrative. Explained his thoughts and actions clearly. Only thing I thought lacking was the victory over Berlin. The AEF gets over the Rhine, communicates with Russia, decides on a mutual halting point, and the Bradley is back to the States. It is the way it happened, but was hoping for more thought on the end of the ETO
An interesting glance into the Allied war rooms of the Second World War.
Five stars for the four star General. I highly recommend Bradley's autobiography. Read my full review at www.hlgibsonauthor.com
My much respected nephew, Jeff Gibson turned me on to this one. It's turgid and often boring, he said, but it definitely rewards your effort. He was correct. Be warned--but encouraged.
well written, with tremendous personal insight from Bradley. He does not seem to holdback his insight- good or bad, whether about him or others. Highly enjoyable and a mustread for WW II history buffs.
Once of the best biographies I've read in awhile, Bradley walks us through his experience in the war with calm, quiet authority.
He goes through minute detail on each decision made and walks us through battle plans (and the actual battles that followed) with an excellent tactical eye that never gets too far beyond what a lay person can follow.
And, from reading the other reviews, I've learned that this was the basis for the film "Patton," which I did not know.
Somehow it's very fitting that Bradley's biography would be the basis for the film of another man's story.
This is an excellent memoir of the fight to win WWII.
Omar Bradley relates his experiences in the war beginning in Africa, then Sicily , and ending up with D-Day and the final defeat of Germany.
As an officer, ending the war with four stars, Omar tells the reader of how we won the war.
His relating of strategy decisions and how they were made are fascinating.
Working with Eisenhower in Africa, Sicily and Europe he gives insight into the difficulties Ike had keeping harmony among the Allies.
Excellent look at our "greatest generation."
BATTLE OF THE BULGE: "Since success was predicated largely upon surprise, in massing his troops for the Ardennes offensive the enemy invoked his most rigid security precautions of the war.
Pledges were required of all commanders briefed on the operation.
Radio communications on the operation was forbidden; correspondence was ordered carried only by trusted couriers and anyone with a knowledge of the offensive was prohibited from flying west of the Rhine.
Troops were to be staged in their final assembly areas only in the eleventh hour, and then only at night.
I read this book because it was the basis for the movie "Patton".
I was surprised by this book because it was easy to read and explained much about the decisions made during WWII.
The strategic decisions about D-day and the invasion of Europe are explained and are fascinating.
Especially the decision to send the Big Red One in during the first wave.
Omar Bradley considered the Big Red One, one of the best invasion units in the world and didn't want to waste it.
And of course it tells you about Omar Bradley.
Omar Bradley is an interesting person and the book is well written.
Many memoirs contain a degree of self-promotion.
General Bradley's is a refreshing change from that.
Military history is a notoriously imprecise field, with arguments and opinions changing and still being debated over a long period of time.
However, one fact which many still believe is that Bradley is the comparatively calm 'voice of reason' of the Allied senior commanders in the European theaters, playing off the more tempramental personalities of Patton and Montgomery.
Bradley's memoirs are a thorough, detailed look at military operations, with a good slew of anecdotes thrown in.
The maps are very useful for understanding the nature of the operations.
I am quite glad I finally got around to reading (and finishing) this book. (It got packed up when I was partway through due to some life chaos, and I found it again yesterday).Bradley is fair-minded, and there are some interesting insight into the entire scenario - in the large and small scale, both about people and the tactics of the war.There was more discussion about some of the alternate possibilities, and why the ones chosen were the ones chosen than there have been in many of the books I have read regarding the war.
This was a pretty good book. It had a lot of inside info about what was going on both personally and in the various campaigns of WWII. If you like war books, this is definitely one to read. Even if you don't, some of it would still be interesting... I learned how important supply lines are to the success of wartime operations!
I'd reccommend this volume to anyone whose only knowledge of WWII in the European theater comes from the popular works of Stephen Ambrose, and the like. It will be familiar enough, and has greater depth.
Certainly of inestimable value as a pure military history, Soldier's Story does a bare minimum in revealing the personalities that surround these watershed events.
On BookTV, this book, "A Soldier's Story," was recommended by Rick Atkinson. (The other book by Omar Bradley, "A General's Life," was published posthumously.)
Full review to come. Consistently clear and interesting; deals gently with controversial issues, like relationship with Montgomery and slowdowns imposed by SHAEF.
General Omar Bradley has written his life's story. He commanded the American army in Europe during World War II under Eishenhower.
940.5421osbwar
