https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76659.Bearing_an_Hourglass
The second in Piers Anthony incantations of immortality series, this was as imaginative as On a Pale Horse, maybe even more thought went into the story, but it seemed bogged down by the time travel eccentricities. I have since found that most time travel stories fall quickly into complicated storytelling but this one was especially convoluted. It could be that Anthony was ambitious in his design, but I think the story would have been improved by a more linear approach.
Well here's I book I read around thirty years ago and, upon joining Goodreads some years back, awarded in retrospect a five star rating.
Having just reread it, I can't justify those five stars and now feel it is more like a 3.5.
Obviously the book has not changed, but I have, and thinking about how we react to a text in these circumstances has proved to be a rather interesting exercise.
There are also several chunks of chapter-long text that I had to skip, because as a more informed reader, I just found them to be unnecessary, laboured, and boring.
3.5 stars. A good sequel to the excellent On a Pale Horse. I love the premise of this series and I thought the first book was original, well written and a lot of fun. This book, while not up to the level of the first is still pretty good and I will certainly read more of the series at some point.
As a fan of the Fantasy and Sci-Fi genres, I felt an obligation to like Piers Anthony's novels.
In every book, I keep coming back to feeling like I'm reading a dirty old man's wildest fantasy.
At least I'm not as offended at the shallowness of the characters as I am in Anthony's other books.
If he were truly in love with the woman who was all three aspects, shouldn't he be equally as pleased with Lachysis?
I no longer feel obligated to like Piers Anthony.
I'm far too offended by this book to ever think about reading another one of this old man's sexual fantasies.
I have to admit I skimmed some of this one....how can the same author who has such great creativity in some of the larger story plots about the fight between incarnations and good and evil, ALSO have some decidedly ugh side plots filled with inner and outer dialogues than make me feel well icky. Guess it’s safe to say I’m really conflicted with this series so far. 🤷♀
I have to admit I skimmed some of this one....how can the same author who has such great creativity in some of the larger story plots about the fight between incarnations and good and evil, ALSO have some decidedly ugh side plots filled with inner and outer dialogues than make me feel well icky. Guess it’s safe to say I’m really conflicted with this series so far. 🤷‍♀️
I just had the chance to re-read this and found myself asking, "What was I thinking?!"Norton's story was interesting at first, but then somehow the story goes to hell!
Most of the book is Anthony entertaining strange ideas about time paradoxes that belong in a physics textbook, not a story.
In other places there are logic questions that are clearly Anthony showing the readers how intelligent he thinks he is.However, the most egregious sin of this book was its objectification of women.
"These kinds" of women were the ones Norton found attractive.
Truly, it seems that Anthony's ideas of beauty and what women should look like are as flawed as his plot.
2.5 stars really.
Unsatisfying ending.
Sections are standalone short stories with the main character, but unrelated to overall plot in every but the vaguest sense.
These sections are bad sci-fi, extremely shallow and fun.
The meat of the book is mediocre.
Overall a forgettable book.
The shining light are several 30 page stretches of shallow fun.
This being the second book of his I've read, I now am saddened by the thought that adolescents (and please not adults) would become introspective by Piers Anthony's implicit statements on the human condition.
I hope that doesn't sound uppity, but he's really not good for that purpose.
Unfortunately, the only things that were really explored were the technical details of how the hourglass--Time’s magical artifact which allowed him to travel--worked, which were mind-numbingly boring, and the fact that Time, or Chronos, lives backwards, which Anthony tried to explain so often and so thoroughly that not only did it leave nothing to the imagination, but it ended up making the idea way more confusing than it needed to be.
You would lose nothing in the overall story.I really feel like this was a book that Piers Anthony felt obligated to write, but he had no idea what to do with it.
Despite my indifference (and at times annoyance) with On a Pale Horse, I went ahead and plowed through Bearing an Hourglass.
Piers Anthony's writing is just...well...not great.
To give you an idea of what I mean, a moment in the book might go something like this:Zane saw the girl falling from the roof.
I should move under her." Zane moved forward to catch the girl.
In general, I just find things like that frustrating.Finally, both On a Pale Horse and Bearing an Hourglass had deus ex machina endings.
DNF 63%
Anthony mentioned in his author's note that he had to do a fair amount of research for this title.
Instead of it being incorporated more easily there are large infodumps in this title which are mostly confusing rather than interesting.
He also mentioned Asimov in his note.
Luckily I know I loved the rest of the series so I'm willing to take a chance on it since otherwise I dislike this title enough I doubt I'd read the rest of the series.
Recommended to those who loved Pale Horse enough to want to read the entire series.
Norton is an ordinary man who agrees to take on the role of Time after a series of misfortunes and disappointments in his mortal life – specifically, the loss of the woman he loved.As Chronos, he is obliged to live his life backwards, which makes interaction with other people confusing and difficult.
Norton may be brand new on the job, but he’s launched into the thick of things right away as Satan tries to use Norton’s inexperience for his own ends.
But I didn’t mind that; he was fun to read about, and his plots are suitably fiendish.Which brings me to an interesting point about this series.
At that point in chapter 1, nobody, not even the protagonist, and definitely not the reader, knew what was going on.Being a writer myself, there's always a little something to be learned from the books I read.
Throughout the Incarnations of Immortality series, Anthony has sounded more and more like the characters that star in the books; in Upon a Pale Horse he sounded depressed and pensive to match the Incarnation in that book (Death).
In Hourglass, he develops a knowledgable (wise, even) tone as the story progresses, sounding more like my idea of Father Time than anyone has a right to.
He was a well-developed protagonist who was easy to root for, and the idea of Time living his life backward was a good one (in fact, it was this idea that got me to pick up the first three books of this series) but I was annoyed by the clunky explanations of the physics behind it all (though I appreciated the effort) as well as the transparently elementary nature of Satan's tricks and how Norton's playing a part in them was insulting to the intelligence of his character.
This book's unusual concept of the main character living his life backward in time is interesting and makes the book worth reading as a learning experience if nothing else. Being the second book in the series, it could stand alone though I wouldn't recommend reading it without reading On a Pale Horse first. Sometimes the character's interactions with others are hard to follow, but it is an enjoyable book.
This isn't my favorite in the series, it definitely suffers from second in a series syndrome. However, it's a definite must to read because if you skip it you'll miss seeing how the incarnations and their stories are intertwined. There are multiple things in the series you'll miss out on if you don't read this one. Which is why even though it's not a favorite I still give it a 3-star rating. Just remember when these were written there weren't many strong women in the Fantasy genre.
Gawain offers financial support and lessons in fighting dragons (handy later), but wants the baby to look like him and asks Mother Nature Gaea for a favor, without mentioning genetic fatal wasting disease that kills within a year.
today" p 77 takes him to meet Chronos.By living backwards, Norton can "be with Orlene again" p 77.
In three sort-of Quests, he fights an alien Bem (Bug-Eyed- Monster in Dr Who origin movie http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dEwikI...) with space cowboy Bat Dursten (spin off "Bat Masterson"), fights an Evil Sorceress and Guardian Dragon (remember Gawain's lessons?) for Damsel Excelsia and unicorn Alicorn.
I'm reviewing all of the books after I finished re-reading the entire series, which I don't normally do & didn't do deliberately this time, either...I do believe this is one of Anthony's better series, but there's a lot of promise to the series, and for some of the books, a lot of promise and not a lot of delivering.This was always my least favorite of the books in the series, not counting the horrible 8th book which I pretend doesn't exist because it's so horrible WRONG and BAD.
Poor George Guidall is such a great voice actor that he's often hired to read horrible novels.
But even a rose growing out of shit is still a shitty rose.I own maybe 4 books in this series and have owned them for about ten years.
How can you go wrong in Fantasy when you have the power to create your own World and it's Languages and Cultures and Rules and Laws.
I have not read any other Anthony but, for ten years, have found the very idea of this series intriguing.
Also, George Guidall certainly did an amazing job distinctly voicing the many characters and also reading words backward.
I'm about 1/3 of the way through, maybe a little more, and this book is so unutterably horrible that it sucks the joy out of reading.
I have given the book 1 star to show that I rated it at all, but if I could I would give it NEGATIVE stars because, as already noted, it sucks the joy out of everything else with its manifest horribleness.It's not the horrible ways that women are (or aren't) portrayed.It's not the boring bits.It's not the fact that the hero is just such a moron.It's all of the above plus a miasma of icky that permeates the book.
It's not even a good "Teenage Boy Book".
It's just not even good.So I am officially Giving Up. And reviewing, to mark that.
Out of all the Incarnations, the office of Time seems to be the most baffling one, since Chronos has to live backwards in time.
But having power over spacetime (and being able to travel anywhere within) seems to be a more than adequate compensation for having to live backward and seeing everyone move forward.
It gets especially heady towards the end, such as the conversation between Chronos and Bemme, or Chronos traveling to the end of time and back and his realization/understanding of time and Satan's lies.Overall a solid book with a lot of philosophical/scientific ideas with more seriousness than 'On a Pale Horse', this book is definitely one of the better in the series.
Mr Anthony Piers may I bow down and congratulate you on your amazing writing.
I read the first Immortals series a long time back on a PDF document while in college and since I have set myself on an adventure to find these classics from second hand book stores and after nearly 8 years I reached the second one.
I first came in touch with Anthony Piers through the series "Biography of a space tyrant " and then came to the Immortals series.
One clue for those who are yet to read the book, perhaps Merin was Chronos at some point in time.
The 2nd book in the Incarnations series, while I love books that deal with Time, this isn't as good as the Death book, but I still love it.And though it's nice to have read book 1, it's not required. These are independant stories until you get up closer to book 4 or 5, and even then you won't be that confused.
Slightly more adult writing from Mr. Anthony. In this series he reveals the incarnations (Time, Death, War) to be real offices people can enter or vacate. This series allows him much more room for social and moral commentary while still being fun and escapist reading.
Really fun and intriguing read. The characters are well developed and likeable.
Well, the first book in this series was pretty great. Kind of funny for being a bit formulaic with some bits: the women in this series all seem to be bombshells (if on the good side, virtuous bombshells; if on the bad side, super-jiggly bombshells), but interesting reading all around. This second book was tiresome at times, cheesy at times, but I powered through it. I am hopeful that the other reviews are right in suggesting that this is the worst book of the series, because the concept is great. Just not this book.
Love this series!
Its about a wanderer called Norton who takes the role as the incarnation of Time, known as Chronos.
The book however spends a lot of time on the character's background before he becomes Chronos.
Its hilarious: The character, Norton, starts off as a vagabond wanderer with no money, spending his time using his knowledge of magic and science to survive in the synthetic forest parks that mankind has created in the future.
The ghost pulls a few strings and gets Norton the job as Chronos, the Incarnation of Time, who can travel in time and alter the past and future.
When I think back to it, it’s astonishing how many Piers Anthony novels I read in the short period of my early teens.
See how much fun this series can be?But, it wasn’t while reading the book that my real nostalgia was triggered, it was when I turned to the back and looked at the “Author’s Note.” I had forgotten about these.
Today, I suppose I would just read his blog (which would be cheaper), but it was a thrill for me to know that at the end of even a mediocre novel there would be an insight into the real world of Piers Anthony.
Bearing an Hourglass is the second Piers Anthony book I’ve read in his eight-book Incarnations of Immortality series and continues the ongoing war between God and Satan through the eyes of each Incarnation. This particular novel focuses on Time or Chronos. The main character, Norton meets a ghost by the name of Gawain who asks Norton to marry his wife. Norton is put off by this idea at first, but Gawain insists that it is because he needs a child and heir. Norton reluctantly follows but soon be
Bearing an Hourglass is the second Piers Anthony book I’ve read in his eight-book Incarnations of Immortality series and continues the ongoing war between God and Satan through the eyes of each Incarnation.
Gawain then reappears and offers Norton something else: a position as the Incarnation of Time.
As Chronos, he is fated to live backwards in time.
He meets some of the other Incarnations, including Death, who he supposedly met in the last book.
One particular chapter, titled “Drawkcab” consists of Norton living forward in time when everyone else is living, talking and moving backwards.
