https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/160425.Morrie
There were several excellent quotes in the book including, “This is God talking and he’s saying, ‘You would not be seeking me if you had not already found me.’” That quote comes from Morrie’s advice on developing a spiritual connection.
It seemed like he was looking for a feeling and/or some kind of sign, but he never really developed a true faith in God. I do hope that people will seek God as death draws near, and that they will find true peace in knowing that there is victory over death for those that are faithful.
I finally took the time to read Morrie's book.
As I neared the completion of this book, it became so clear to me just how beautiful a gift Morrie gave us all.
I just hope that people the world over who are in need of wisdom while either facing death or tremendous adversity find the good fortune in learning from this wonderful man.
Morrie dared to do things most wouldn't, he shared his experience of living with the knowledge death was close at hand.I wouldn't hesitate to rec this book to anyone able to read or hear its contents.
Morrie's story really gained momentum after Mitch Albom's Tuesdays with Morrie became a bestseller, but while Morrie himself was still alive and battling Lou Gehrig's Disease, he wrote out his life's meaning and purpose. This book is incredible and really worth reading.
I love Tuesdays with Morrie, so I had to read Morrie's own book full of his wisdom. This book is very simple and easy to read. It's short life lessons to consider with personal examples from Morrie's own experience as he battles ALS. Those who knew Morrie in real life were blessed.
Morrie Schwartz is the man from the Tuesdays With Morrie by Mitch Albom, and he suffers a neurodegenerative disease called ALS or Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis .
He is well known for words of wisdom, touching many people's lives all over the world.
I really find this book comforting and inspiring.
Morrie's words are unforgettable and I would like to thank him man for sharing his life lessons.
I'm very looking forward to read Tuesdays With Morrie by Mitch Albom.I highly recommend this book.
If you feel stressed, just read this book and reflect.
This was only $1.99 on a Kindle Daily Deal today and since I really liked Tuesdays with Morrie I had been meaning to read this anyway so I grabbed it.
I took a walk this afternoon and read as I walked.
Cheesy, I know but it was just a quick little feel good read.
It also helped me to understand how to deal with illness.
It was not really anything that wasn’t covered in Albom’s book, but I liked hearing Morrie’s voice and how his illness affected him and those around him.
He ended up caring full time for Morrie in his last days.
In this book,which is the thoughts and philosophies of Morrie, we a privileged to read the inner most feelings of a very brave spiritual person.
Although obviously in pain both physically and emotionally, we learn of his acceptance of his situation, and his insights into life.
Having a physical disability myself I can only hope to be like him in some way.
This book is essential reading, you will experience the full gamut of emotions.
This book will always and forever stay close to my heart .
Thinking about the lessons that I've learned from this book , it was one of the sole reasons that helped me grow as a person , and appreciate my life .
When gifted with all the things that we exactly need to live a happy life , we humans still complain and worry about what we don't have .
This book definitely made me overcome my fear of failure , aging , and the fear of growing up to a wholesome person.
must read for everyone who is need for a good book .
I enjoyed hearing from Morrie Schwartz, in his own words.
I love Mitch Albom's "Tuesdays with Morrie" and nothing will touch me like that book did.
But getting to hear Morrie tell his aphorisms and the related stories is a joy.
I wish I could have known this man at any time in his teaching career or beyond.
He was one of a kind.
He sounds a bit more professorial in this work and that is all to the good.
There is a lot of repetition from what Albom captured, but there is also new material here.
I am grateful for this experience.
This is a story into a man who is struck out of the blue with Lou Gehrig's disease. For me it hits close to home having my wife Gloria deal with this devastating disease. It help me deal with what I was going through. But I did not read the book until Gloria had been called by God. I still miss it but by reading Morrie: In His Own Words I was able to get another perspective on this terrible illness.
I liked it. I didn't love it. I read "Tuesdays With Morrie so I knew Morrie's story. The book is meant to be helpful, but I found it to be primarily depressing - a just a little inspiring. I guess I'm glad that I read it. I wanted to know more about Morrie. Now I do. That about sums it up.
Morris says that he doesn't want to use these aids as he wouldn't be able to die peacefully with these.
- Death ends a life, not a relationship.
- Death is as natural as life.- Don't let go too soon, and don't hang on for too long.
- When you are realise that you are going to die, you see everything very differently.
The main theme is love and importance focussing on important things in life which have a meaning and a purpose.
You learn how to live, once you have learnt how to die.
For everyone who enjoyed the inspiration and wisdom of Morrie Schwartz in Mitch Albom’s moving bestseller Tuesdays with Morrie, here is a new paperback edition of Morrie’s own book, presenting the philosophies by which he triumphantly lived, even as he faced the end of his life.For decades Morrie Schwartz engaged his Brandeis University students in the importance of community and involvement in life.
It is Morrie’s invaluable legacy to us all.“In this book, Morrie teaches one last great class, on acceptance, on wresting victory from the jaws of defeat, on the honor of dependency, on moral courage, growth, and joy.
(The mark of a great book in my opinion - it holds things that make you stop & go 'hmmmm').Reading this book by Morrie makes me wish, more than ever, that I had known this man - as a mentor, grandfather figure, friend.
None of the ideas are necessarily new, but presented in his context of illness in such a compassionate and humble way really strikes a chord; it makes me strive to see the 'Morrie' in myself, and in everyone around me.
As the crippling disease progressed, he lost more and more of his independence and needed care as his body weakened and he was able to do activities of daily living on his own.
It sounds like it would be a dark and scary book to read - but it is not.
It's a manaul on how to LIVE with a debilitating disease.Fans of "Tuesdays with Morrie" by Mitch Albom will especially enjoy this book.
Mitch was a student of Morrie's and he wrote a book about his experiences meeting with Morrie as his disease progressed.I recommend "Morrie".
This is an excellent companion to "Tuesdays with Morrie." It's great to hear the words and wisdom directly from the man himself.
Those that have read "Tuesdays" will recognize much of Morrie's aphorisms.
In this text, though, you will read Morrie explicate the aphorisms himself.
After reading "Tuesdays" and "Morrie: in his own words," I would encourage readers to jump on Youtube and watch the Nightline interviews with Morrie and Ted Koppel.
The interviews made the readings that much more special and the words and personality of Morrie more life-like.
Morrie's take on mourning yourself before you die and appreciating life is a lesson for all of us whether you are sick or not.
His book also helped me to understand my father's probable range of emotions as he confronted the end of his life.
Very interesting, a little somber, but Morrie's lessons are beautiful and reassuring.
I recommend this book to someone who knows the end of life is near, who has a family member who is ill, or someone who wants to be prepared for the end of life in a peaceful, accepting way because after all "It's natural to die.
Morrie's aphorisms about how to live while dying can easily apply to everyone whether we are sick or in good health.
We all need to recognize that each minute, each relationship, each opportunity is precious and we need to fully engage in each of these.
But we also need to be realistic in our expectations and adapt to the changes that take affect us and others.
I loved his honesty and his optimism about his circumstances.
I loved his respect for others needs even while his own needs were so severe.
There is much to learn from this great and inspiring man.
Rather than succumbing to his deteriorating physical condition, Morrie choose to stay compassionate and live an end-life serving others. The book offers Morrie's takes on how to cope when one has serious illness. Surprisingly, some of the points can be applied to even a healthy person's life including forgiving yourself and letting go of the past. The book can be summed by his quote; "Learn how to live, and you'll know how to die; learn how to die, and you'll know how to life"
Kind of what I needed to hear today.
I didn't finish this book. I couldn't get into it. This book is mostly about how to deal with death.
He is a person that has lived a full life and knows that his death isn’t going the be the end but the beginning.
He had many emotions he’d be sad and angry because he doesn’t want this to happen to him, he doesn’t want it to end but as the days go by where he is still paralyzed in his bed he gets use to the idea of not being able to do anything.
Symbolism: The symbol for this book would be the peace sign because all people should have a good life and when you only have one life to live you should value it more than anything.
Memorable Quotes“Learn how to live,” Morrie wrote, “and you’ll know how to die; learn how to die, an
For those who have read Tuesdays with Morrie, this has a lot of the same themes included in that book, but in Schwartz's own words.This is partially a memoir reflecting on Schwartz's last parts of his life, but it's also a guide for those who have a terminal illness.
There are coping methods and recommendations on living life to the fullest included, so if you're into self-help angles, that is a major part of the book.Schwartz's aphorisms are good enough, but I'm also interested in what happens when they don't quite get the job done - for instance, even though it wasn't the intention of the book, I was thinking of what he said from a mentally ill angle.
Read For Read-A-Thon  Challenge: A Book From The Book-Fair  "After you have wept and grieved for your physical losses, cherish the functions and the life you have left." -Last year I read the novel, Tuesdays with Morrie, and really enjoyed it.
This is in a way, a sequel to that book.
Tuesdays with Morrie  is told from the perspective of Mitch Albom, a friend of Morrie.
Morrie: In His Own Words , is the story of Morrie in his own words.-This felt very much like a self-help book.
I had a hard time relating to this novel and the subjects mentioned haven't really affected me all that much.
I bought to learn some wisdom from his life.
The book itself is pretty short.
It’s filled with aphorisms that are germane to those facing terminal illness or death or know someone who is.
Since I’m only 30, I’m not really at the stage to contemplate life and death, as Morrie in the later stages of his life.
But I still tried to take in his wisdom and advice.
The eBook itself has numerous punctuation and grammatical errors.
Because of the errors and the incompatibly with my current reading interests, I rate the book 3 stars, despite my respect for the author’s undertaking.
This book doesn't really tell me much that I didn't already know, but perhaps that's because, like Morrie, I've taken sociology and psychology in college and also because I've been around a few physically ill or dying people.Still, it's nice to see it all in writing ... like having your own thoughts verbalized by someone else and from their point of view, and I really appreciate the gift that it is meant to be, from Morrie, who wrote it, and Minnie, who gave the book to me.Finished reading December 16, 2007.
This is a quick read with some valuable insights from a long-time professor suffering with ALS. Much of what Morrie writes is applicable to those facing death at the hands of disease. I found that Schwartz could be quite insightful, but as a Christian I didn't appreciate all of his worldly wisdom. I found that portions of what he said simply weren't within the character of Christian faith - but he never claimed to a Christian. Depending on your worldview, this book could be excellent or just ok. For me, it was just ok.
I have read a few books similar to Morrie: In His Own Words, and I always have difficulty finishing them.
There are some great words of wisdom here and I know Morrie's words will really help some people get through hardships.
I don't fault the quality of Morrie's words and almost feel bad giving it three stars.
However, these types of books never quite keep me hooked all the way through.
I get lost somewhere in the middle and struggle to finish.
Morrie: In His Own Words was good though because it was short, sweet and didn't beat around any bushes.
Though I liked the book, I believe that it would be more appropriate for me later in life or when suffering from chronic illness. Morrie seemed to be an incredible person and has some good points that can be taken out of the book at any time! He had some amazing insights for a man suffering from a chronic illness himself and shows that you don't have to give up living just because you are given an end-date. I will definitely re-read this book in a few years!
