https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6678.Going_Solo
It is a continuation of his autobiography describing his childhood, Boy and detailed his travel to Africa and exploits as a World War II pilot.عنوان: سفر تک نفره؛ نویسنده: رولد دال؛ مترجم: شهلا طهماسبی؛ تهران، نشر مرکز، 1379؛ در 200 ص، مصور، نقشه، شابک: 9643054780؛ چاپ دوم 1380؛ سوم 1382؛ ششم 1386؛ هفتم 1388؛ شابک: 9789643054786؛ موضوع: سرگذشتنامه نویسندگان انگلیسی - جنگ جهانی دوم - سده 20 منقل از مقدمه: بخش اول کتاب، از زمانی آغاز می‌شود که به افریقای شرقی سفر کردم.
قسمت دوم، مربوط به زمانی ست که در جنگ جهانی دوم وارد نیروی هوایی شدم.
Whew! This man did more within a year than I have in my life.  And the giraffes would incline their heads very slightly and stare down at me with languorous demure expressions, but they never ran away. I found it exhilarating to be able to walk freely among such huge graceful wild creatures and talk to them as I wished. This is the second half of Dahl's autobiography.  What a wild life!  Right after high school, Roald packed up his belongings, got a job for the Shell company and set off for Afri
This man did more within a year than I have in my life.
Right after high school, Roald packed up his belongings, got a job for the Shell company and set off for Africa.
And during his time in Africa, a lion carries away a woman, a black mamba attacks his servant and a green mamba invades a house to kill a family dog.
For example, all the men at the Shell company had a "boy." Now, this "boy" was actually a full grown man.
It was strange to read about.Only, before Roald could finish his time with the Shell company...the Great War broke out.
I'm giving this book 5 stars without having actually read it, but ya know what it's my review so I can do whatever I want (don't try and stop me)!It's getting 5 stars because my 2nd grade son LOVES, LOVES, LOVES it!!!
The other night he got sent to bed with no read aloud (the little bastard lied to me about brushing his teeth, I know I'm such a hard ass) but he didn't even care!!!
Wow, Roald was in some series air battles during World War II.
He should have died many times during the Battle for Athens and all the other times he went up in the air.
I love the first part of this story when he is on a steamer heading to Africa and he tells of all the exotic passengers on the trip.
I don't feel like I have done enough after listening to him, but my life is my life.
Like he says, we don't travel the same way we used to.
I also appreciate that he never took pleasure in killing people.
“A life is made up of a great number of small incidents and a small number of great ones.” So opens the second and 'adult-based' portion of Roald Dahl's autobiography.
Dahl seeks to offer the reader some of the key memories he had during his early adult life, particularly serving in the Second World War. Accepting a job with the Shell Company, Dahl is soon shipped to the African continent, working particularly in Dar es Salaam, part of what is currently Tanzania.
Using a collection of his letters penned to his mother, Dahl is able to recall some of the minutiae, which helps substantiate his many adventures.
This section is extremely creepy and deserves to be quoted:‘Is this your land?’ I asked him.‘Not yet,’ he said.‘You mean you’re hoping to buy it?’He looked at me in silence for a while.
Then he said, ‘The land is at present owned by a Palestinian farmer but he has given us permission to live here.
He has also allowed us some fields so that we can grow our own food.’ ‘So where do you go from here?’ I asked him.
‘You and all your orphans?’‘We don’t go anywhere,’ he said, smiling through his black beard.
First I read 'Boy' and then I read 'Going Solo'. This book is perfect. Roald Dahl tells the grown-up part of his life in such a way that made me crave more for his adventures in the Royal Air Force. It's like sitting in a cafe, listening to your date who's telling you amusing stories of his life. He's a hundred years older than you are, yet you still find him attractive!
http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b07hwwjvDescription: To celebrate the centenary year of his birth, a full dramatization of Roald Dahl's gripping autobiographical overseas adventure.Beginning aboard the SS Mantola, Dahl sets sail for Africa at the tender age of 22.
But his savannah-sun-drenched life is interrupted when World War II erupts.
Dahl is ordered to round up the German inhabitants of Dar es Salaam and experiences first-hand the horror of war.Patrick Malahide provides the voice of Dahl in a colourful adaptation by Lucy Catherine.Because Egypt was "too dusty"
Roald Dahl is not just a great writer - he's a wonderful human being, and that's what makes him so damn good at writing too.He's observant and self-aware, matter-of-fact but wondering, curious and amazed at life, brave and charming in the way he writes and the things he's done, concise and generous and really fucking tall.I'm pretty much in love with his soul.
A wonderful, harrowing and yet somehow light-hearted account of Dahl's time during the Second World War as a RAF pilot. Most fascinating, which one finds with the war poets, is, though it is obviously horrid and despicable, they all seem to bloody love war. Not nice when you nearly die, but jolly good fun otherwise. Camaraderie has a lot to do with it, but I think it's also just what you need to do when faced with such senseless, mindless stupidity.Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Pinterest | Shop | Etsy
This was an eye-opening combination of humorous "Englishman abroad" and hair-raising WWII memoir!
Starting out with his time, just out of school, as a Shell Oil employee in Dar es Salaam, the story moves right into the outbreak of WWII and Dahl's becoming an RAF pilot, because that is exactly what happened.
Dahl's trademark humor and complete lack of respect for authority make for an interesting look at war in northern Africa, to say the least!But seriously, though: I don't think God intended Roald Dahl to have a nose.
I'm amazed he looked as good as he did as an older man!
This is the second autobiography of Roald Dahl's life.
It was crazy to think what literature would be like if Roald had died in the war.However, this book left me with a ton of unanswered questions.
Like, what happened when he went home after the war?
I felt it was only an autobiography about a tiny bit of his life.
It made me feel like there was still a lot missing or that there should have been another book after Going Solo.
I suggest this book to anyone that enjoys him as a an author or likes autobiographies.
'Going Solo' is the second instalment of Dahl's autobiography. Whilst interesting, informative and entertaining this may be - it isn't anything like as compelling as the first book covering Dahl's earlier years - 'Boy'. Still definitely worth reading - for all fans of Dahl and anyone with an interest in his pre-literary life.
Um relato emocionante da vida do autor, desde dos seus tempos em África enfrentando cobras e leões até ao se tornar piloto da RAF combatendo contra os alemães.Ao longo do livro aparece alguma da sua correspondência com a sua mãe e imagens que nos ajudam a nos contextualizar.Foi uma leitura muito agradável !
Great book. I still can't believe that Roald Dahl experienced so many thrilling adventures before he became an author. This book had crash landings to green mamba attacks. If I were him I would have never left his thrilling life. I really loved the middle of the book because that's when the book started to become interesting. 10/10 great book. I recommend it to anyone who likes a thrilling and adventurous book.
First off, I am once again shocked that this is considered juvenile fiction.
I could see this being for the older range of juvenile fiction (15-18), but I would NOT give this to my little siblings (ages 12-14).
It took me 5 or so chapters to really be interested in it, but after that I was hooked.
Dahl's slightly humerous and fascinating accounts of a RAF pilot were so interesting.
It also portrayed a side of WWII that you don't hear a lot about: the fighting in the Middle East, which was were Dahl was stationed.
A sequel to Boy, this picks up with Dahl’s journey to East Africa to take up a position with Shell.
The journey there is as joyous as anything he’s written: he takes such delight in his fellow passengers’ dotty behavior, like the major and his wife who jog the deck naked; the female coffee farmer who has a horror of fingers and toes; and the cabin mate (a Mr.
“U.N. Savory” – literally!) who goes to great lengths to hide his baldness.
Once in Tanganyika he has some alarming snake and lion encounters – more of a highlight for me than his lucky escapes during his outrageously outnumbered war pilot experience in Greece, though these are written with just as much élan.
This is probably the most exiting autobiography I've ever read. I feel as if I'm friends now with the author eventhough there's a 73 year gap between us. The book gives you a glimpse of how it was like to live in the British Empire or The many many countries occupied by Britain, I should say. out of the many odd events and characters Roald had seen, the German Jewish/Zionest setteler near Haifa was by far, the creepiest, most twisted and disturbing in the intire book.
Qué vidas tan pobres que vivimos en estos tiempos modernos.Amo leer sobre Dahl, podría hacerlo por siempre.
Dahl is ordered to round up the German inhabitants of Dar es Salaam and experiences first-hand the horror of war.2/2: As World War II rages, Pilot Officer Dahl takes to the air in a series of daring deeds.
An inspirational account of survival when things seem hopeless, in which the extraordinary is made human."The second part is about the time I spent flying for the RAF in the Second World War. There was no need to discard anything from this period because every moment was, to me at least, completely enthralling."Having joined the RAF Dahl discovers a love of flying.
I liked this better than I thought I would, but I still think he was better at children's books.
The book Going Solo by Roald Dahl was a real experience of what happened to him during World War II.
Roald Dahl wrote 48 books in his life.
Dahl seemed crazy he talked to animals.
How are you today?” (Going Solo p79).
The weakness of the book was that it was difficult to understand because of the unique British spelling and vocabulary.
Dahl used several themes, including beauty and danger.
I liked this book because I learned a lot of things about WWII.
I would recommend this book to young adults because Dahl used some words that were difficult to understand.
A remarkable account of a remarkable portion of a remarkable life. Rereading this as an adult, I left with a much greater appreciation for my late grandfather's WW2 air force service and the ghastly "waste of life" he, too, was lucky enough to survive.
As a boy it made me dream of African countryside, baking suns, lions, deadly snakes and a different world.The second part, detailing his experiences in the war as a pilot is equally enthralling though very different in tone.
The horrors of war only really peak through at times and I suspect this was him writing for a younger audience.Put together though, both Boy and Going Solo are wonderful books for children to open their eyes to different types of stories and worlds.
او یک آفریقایی وحشی بود که به دست ما اروپایی ها در قالب خدمتکاری خانگی درآمده بود و حالا قالب را شکسته بود.»خب معلومه کاری که اون آفریقایی کرده برای ما خیلی وحشیانه و غیرمعمول به نظر میاد، اما نکته جالب اینجاست؛ اون وقتی که رئیسش بهش میگه اگه مجبور شدی 500 تا مرد غیر نظامی رو بکش، حتی اگه همراه زن و بچه بودن، دال قبول میکنه و میره ماموریتش رو انجام بده، اما در مقابل کشته شدن یه آلمانی این طوری شوکه میشه.
The book is all about his adventures in Africa while working for the Shell Oil Company, and while flying for the Royal Air Force in World War Two. The book also contains some of Dahl’s encounters with animals.
Some of the weaknesses in Dahl’s writing were when he made it seem like there would be a great description on what happened, and sometimes there was none.
Dahl’s writing style really helped me understand what was happening most of the time.
I like his style, and would read all of his books if given the chance.
This book has also given me a different view on autobiographies.
I wish I could say I have been all over the world, have crashed landed a plane, or have shot-down German aces, which is why I really admire Roald Dahl.
Dahl worked in Africa until the outbreak of World War II, when he enlisted in the RAF and learned to fly warplanes.
He describes lion attacks and dog fights with a classic British style that portrays the attitudes of the characters he interacted with so well that you feel as though you new them.
After reading the book, I felt like I had met ex-patriots from India, RAF veterans in the midst of battle, African natives chasing lions, and Jewish refugees dreaming of their homeland.
The book Going Solo is full of exciting, breathtaking, suspenseful, and defiantly worth reading.
This book is about a young mans life and all of his adventures.
The one thing that I really like about this book is that the fun never stops.
Roald Dahl enter the Air force and encounters many different situations of life and death and is just lucky enough to come out alive.
Another thing I love about book Going Solo really goes into detail when it comes to the dogfights with the Germans and Roald Dahl.
All in all the book Going Solo is one that I would not suggest skipping.
recommended to me by Miriam, who noticed that it wasn't on my Flying shelf.
Dahl's account of the Battle of Athens is one of my touchstones - the desperation and exhaustion of the RAF pilots, their relative cluelessness about what's going on everywhere else, the hands that shake too much to hold a cigarette when you're back on the ground - it's incredibly vivid and has influenced my own writing.
Going Solo is perhaps not Dahl's most lauded piece of writing but it's certainly the one I recommend most often.There!
On my flying shelf now!

