https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17332218-words-of-radiance
The Gods of the Cosmere knows how much I love the original Mistborn trilogy but Brandon Sanderson really raised the bar for the epic fantasy genre sky high with this series.Words of Radiance, only the second book in The Stormlight Archive series and the sequel to The Way of Kings, managed to build upon almost everything done by its predecessor and improve every element necessary to become a masterpiece.
I’m certain the title of this book almost literally reflects its content; each word is structured to give radiance to your life simply from reading them.The story still told from multiple POV and while still remaining mostly character driven, it's much more plot centered this time.
Holy crap on a stick. I bow in supreme awe.That's it.
And in my own humble opinion, because it is my review after all, that is the moment where Adolin begins to fall in love with her.
Kaladins bootsAnother great moment for her.
It was the moment he realised that the head of his Knights Radiant was a little bitch.
In prison?The fact that Adolin imprisoned himself in protest of Kaladins punishment was amazing.
Just to be clear the number one Kaladin moment stretches from "Elhokar was Dalinars Tien" all the way to the renewal of his Radiance.
Then he realises that Dalinar loves his nephew like Kaladin loved Tien.
I still love all of the men of --->BRIDGE FOUR<---- Here's a random EXCERPT<---Kaladin pressed the stone against the wall of the chasm, and it stuck there.
I didn't care too much for Dalinar's son Adolin in the first book but he blew me away in this one.
The prince looked a lot better than Kaladin felt--Adolin had obviously seen a few baths, and his prison cell had been much larger, with more privacy.
There is a point where Kaladin, Adolin and Dalinar are trying to fight this assassin from killing the king, but he is strong, so very strong.
Kindle Daily Deal 01Nov18 for $2.99 at Amazon3rd read even better than the last 2 Don't judge me I made it a full year before rereading this monster book and it is even better the second time through.Kalidan and Syl I still ship you.Buddy Read  May 1st  with many friends over at Sanctum of Fantasy  My apologies in advance for the ridiculous amount of updates I'm going to post for this book. It cannot be helped as my fangirling refuses to be contained. Original review April 2014:  “Honor is dead.
I was on the edge of my seat, reminding myself to read all the words and take my time but I was so excited to see what happened next that I found myself reading faster and faster as everything in the story was unfolding.Told from multiple POVs throughout the story gives the reader an all-encompassing understanding of the world and the various interests and plots of gods and men.
The end of each part of the book had me struggling to take my time through the interludes as I couldn’t wait to see what was happening with our characters.
She does seem in a little over her head though.Adolin was also a character from the last book that I wasn’t a huge fan of.
I'm going to leave this review up as-is until I can replace it with an actual review of the book; as I'm going to be reading it twice (one speed-read before Sanderson comes to my area for a signing, one thorough re-read afterwards) that may be some time.18 December 2013: Review rewritten/reorganized to be more coherent and remove out-of-date info.19 January 2014: Links added for TOR-released chapters.
I feel pretty comfortable saying we'll see the last set of chapters - the ones Peter Ahlstrom has been hinting at by saying we haven't gotten the 'hooks' yet - at the same time on the 28th.28 January 2014: I was right.
The novel switches back & forth between Kaladin & Shallan 99% of the time, and so we are largely excluded from Dalinar's part in the political game outside of brief snatches of his interactions with those two.Speaking of POV's, the unbalance here is something I mentioned in my review of The Way of Kings, but after reading Words of Radiance I think it's something I have come to terms with.
Long story short, I was a lot less bothered this time around because I've come to expect Sanderson will spend the time he deems necessary with each character & after all the time I've spent in the Cosmere universe, I will just trust him.Now we come to one of my absolute favorite elements of this novel, the action/battle scenes.
4/29/18: So far the graphic audio version of STORMLIGHT ARCHIVE has been fantastic, so I’m hopeful that Kaladin will annoy me less this time . . . *crosses fingers*Reviewed by:  Rabid Reads WORDS OF RADIANCE is the second installment of Brandon Sanderson's STORMLIGHT ARCHIVE series, and, unfortunately . . . it fell a little flat for me.Don't get me wrong, I liked it. This was one of those occasions when my rating steadily declined the more I stewed about the ends and outs . . . but immediately u
I believe the ultimate goal is to begin a new series (after the completion of its forerunners) that ties the worlds together in a less tangential way.Anyway, there are Easter eggs aplenty for a savvy fanperson, and I was made aware that a couple of important characters from a different series played important roles in WoR.So I read the book from which these characters came just prior to starting to WoR .
and in a way Sanderson did this: he made up metaphors that referred to the most obvious aspect of the magic system in Crossover's world.
"...“As I fear not a child with a weapon he cannot lift, I will never fear the mind of a man who does not think.”..." OMG!!! This was not just a book, it was a 4 day vacation to the world of Roshar, the complete package! It came with exotic locations, historical sites, a taste of the lives of all social classes including their cuisines and family traditions  ("You're in my home now!" she said, and Lopen mouthed along with the words. "In a Herdazian woman's home, nobody's station means nothing b
Despite the rather obvious attempt of the author to tell us about expectations of an artist and how and when one can live up to them, I think Brandon Sanderson has done a darn good job at keeping the promise he made to us with the first volume of the series.
We all had a pretty good idea that things were not as they seemed with this smart-mouth young noble, who somehow manages to get in trouble all the time and insults people regardless of station or length of acquaintance.
I find myself having put off writing this review for a few weeks now. I am still at a loss for words. How do I deliver an appraisal of a book so  mind-bogglingly fantastic  that anything I write will fall short of conveying the joy of reading it? Words of Radiance might as well be my description of this book and not the title.WOR, being the second book in a ten book series called The Stormlight Archives, picks up right where The Way of Kings left off but does so at a faster pace. Where TWOK was
Words of Radiance might as well be my description of this book and not the title.WOR, being the second book in a ten book series called The Stormlight Archives, picks up right where The Way of Kings left off but does so at a faster pace.
The Way of Kings rocked your boat?
And if you find yourself nearing the end of the book and you are shouting and jumping and pointing towards the pages with exclamations of 

1.) The Way of Kings ★★★★★I am so sorry with how this review is like three weeks late! November just got so overwhelming for me with trips and other things, but I’m here now and happily ready to yell at you all about how this series is Brandon Sanderson’s magnum opus!   “Words are where most change begins.”  This is book two of The Stormlight Archive series. It has multiple points of view, but every one of the characters will somehow weasel their way inside of your heart. Like, I know I’m probab
Like, I know I’m probably getting “too old” to say this, but Adolin Kholin is the ultimate book boyfriend and Jasnah Kholin is the ultimate book girlfriend and my little bi heart is so thirsty happy while reading this story.Also, one thing I haven’t seen anyone say who reviews this series: this series totally has a love triangle and I’m living for it?
I want this review to be spoiler free, so I’m just going to give you guys an idea of what this story and world are like.
I guess you could say that I credit Brandon Sanderson and that book for being my gateway into this genre, and I've always been glad for that.To finally read Words of Radiance was like fist-pumping excitement and all my restless giddiness rolled into one.
My favorite thing about Sanderson's stories are his magic systems, and I know everyone always says that but I don't care!
When it comes to beefing up his magic systems, Sanderson never ceases to amaze.I've also noticed he has a way of writing inherently good people in the roles of main protagonists.
Words of Radiance is the spectacular 2nd book in Brandon Sanderson’s Stormlight Archive.
If you’re looking for an epic fantasy series, the Stormlight Archive is it!
Words of Radiance picks up right where Way of Kings ended, and like the first book it is a fun and satisfying journey.
The book will answer many of the questions you had after finishing Way of Kings while, of course, raising completely new questions.
I’ve already reread this monster of a book (1,087 pages), but I’ll need to be patient.
Some questions need to remain unanswered, I suppose, at least until Oathbringer comes out!
Words of Radiance took every element which I loved in the first book and enhanced it beyond my imagination.Character development remains at the forefront of the narrative.
While The Way of Kings can be called Kaladin's book, Words of Radiance is Shallan's.
Also available in the latest trade paperback release.Kaladin remains as the highlight of the book for me; the path that his arc took was what made this volume amazing and solidified his status as my favourite fantasy character.
My third reading and this was as spectacular as it was the first time. Last 20% of this book is pure gold. Magnificent!! My first five star book of the year and this book has set the standard so high for all the other fantasy books that am planning to read this year. This book is a page turner, has a really amazing world, and just awesome magic system. the story starts with Shallan and Jasnah on their way to Shattered Plains but something bad happens on the ship. Now Shallan has only "Pattern"
This book is a page turner, has a really amazing world, and just awesome magic system.
the story starts with Shallan and Jasnah on their way to Shattered Plains but something bad happens on the ship.
I didn't like Adolin in Wok. To me he was a proud prince who didn't give much thought to other people feelings but everything changed in this book.
I liked how Sanderson presented them as good and bad and made Dalinar believe that not all Parshendis are bad.
Sanderson's writing was good but its the characters that impressed me most in this book.
So I read this book so long ago and never wrote a review. Words won't suffice the way I feel about this book, I have been reading for a long time and this book is THE BEST BOOK I'VE EVER READ IN MY LIFE. Seriously.. Nothing will ever compare to this series & I will wait everyday in suspense for book 3. Hurry the fuck up please KING SANDERSON I need more.
When I truly love a story with all of my heart, I don’t want to the book I’m reading to end.
The world Sanderson has built here is the most unique I have ever read.
Harry Potter, Kvothe, Ender Wiggins, Locke Lamora, Percy Jackson, Thomas Hunter, Errol Stone, Karou, Meg Corbyn, Mercy Thompson, Bilbo Baggins, and many more (though fewer female characters than I’d like, since I can’t make myself include Katniss or Tris) have been the nearly complete focus of their stories, and I love that.
Re-read 11/26/17:I had made a last-minute decision to re-read this epic series on the strength of the third book coming out a few days ago and far from being overwhelmed (much), I was actually knocked over.
Shallan has come so damn far, but compared to the first book, it's a toss-up who has gone farther.
In spades.Shallan's quest to the Broken Plains is the most surprising and delightful and I think I'll say that most of the novel is made gorgeous by it.
The first book was more solid throughout and I suppose I like the Bridgeman-made-good story better than the Bridgeman-falling-into-tragedy, but by the end, none of that matters.
Shallan needs to fuck off not be in this series. She was the only reason i couldn't give this absolutely fantastic book 5 stars. On the bright side at least we got her out of the way. Can't wait for Oathbringer AKA Dalinar's book. Anyone knows when we are getting Szeth's?
But when reviews of The Way of Kings began coming in and asking about Shallan's relevance, even he realized that she was a little too far removed from the main plot of the series, and decided to change things around and make the second book her story.
There is a LOT of world building that went into this series, and Sanderson has found a way to show us important aspects of the world, the various peoples, and other such things, without having the characters sit around and talk about things that they already know for our benefit, or tell us forever long parables and allegorical stories as I may have highly criticized another popular fantasy author for doing.
I can't read the same book for too long, regardless of how much I love it, without having a breakdown and switching to another book on the roster.4) I need the immediate gratification of seeing how much progress I've made after each reading session and how many fewer pages I have left until I'm done.Basically I'm a selfish, inconsiderate reading douchebag with serious commitment issues who has no respect for the books I read.
I know I'm in a vast minority but here they are:1) For such a mature book with so many dark themes, it's still the kind of book a middle-schooler would love.
Way too damn short. 3rd book, y u no out yet?! T_T
I like how dedicated he is to what he believes in to matter how it made him look,even though people called him insane he still went along with it, thankfully he came through.Shallan really improved, her character development is just the best here and her back story made me understand her more, I barely tolerated her in the first book now I really like her.Adolin Kholin is just wow, I really love his personality, even though he is spoilt and a major flirt, not to mention cocky,arrogant and hot headed he still cares for people around him, I like how him and Kaladin became friends despite the rocky start of how they met.Szeth I felt bad for him at first but now I just don’t know, he is a great character but with lots of issues.
I only have one very minor complaint in that Sanderson's jokes seldom land for me, they are just generally too bland, and too safe; but at least some of them make did make me smile, and I appreciate the author for including some humour (even if it is too tame) to balance the more intense parts of the book.Characterization is very important for this kind of book because we have to spend such a long time with the main characters and be invested in what they are doing.
Rereads done!
The Graphic Audio really elevated my reading experience and I just had a complete blast.Read with BB&B from Oct 15-17 and from Oct 18-23_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _Original Spoiler Free Review:Date read: September 1-14, 2015 ”I guess I’m just waiting [for the thunder].
It always follows after the lightning.
Sometimes you have to wait, but eventually it comes.” If lightning struck in Th
If lightning struck in The Way of Kings, then Words of Radiance absolutely brought the thunder.This is now my 7th Sanderson novel to make it unto my favourites shelf!
Like TWoK, Sanderson weaves the present with the past, moving the plot forward, but also emphasizing how our primary characters came to be.
This time around, we get to learn Shallan’s backstory, and I can’t believe I’m about to write this because Kaladin is my precious, but I found her past even more intriguing than Kal’s!
Like TWoK, the last 20% of this book provided some of the best reading experiences I’ve had in my life.
I was all set to add Adolin to the list of characters who had a fantastic second book but that twist right at the end ruined that.
Shallan and Kaladin had super exciting story arcs and both got to show off their new powers plenty of times so reading their POV segments was always good but both did have moments where they managed to annoy me.
He is a fascinating guy and his story is shaping up to be as interesting as that of the first books stand-out secondary character, Szeth.
I'm not keen on the developing love triangle between (view spoiler)[Shallan, Adolin, and Kaladin.
But sometimes, rarely, a book swoops in and uproots my life with a ship for which I would actually die.
That ship, my lovelies, was Kal & Shallan for me.
It was the single most beautiful thing he’d seen in his entire life.Oh man.
Reading Words of Radiance felt like Branderson stuck his hand right through my ribs, grabbed my heart, and said “I’m calling all the shots now, bitch.” I can say with certainty that my emotional stability is at his whim from now on.
The angst, the drama, the beautiful banter between Kal and Shallan is EVERYTHING.
If the first Stormlight book was mostly focused on the life, struggle and ascension of Kaladin, this book spends the majority of its focus on Shallan-and how important she becomes to the whole story.Again, I'll emphatically say that KALADIN IS MY FAVORITE FANTASY CHARACTER OF ALL TIMES!!
As the story progresses, Syl not only becomes his truest of friends and confidants, but she integrates beautifully with Kaladin's powers in forging some of the most AMAZING action sequences that I've read in any fantasy book ever!!
So, let’s try this:Number of times I inadvertently uttered “Stormfather!” as an epithet whilst reading this book: 14Number of times inadvertently uttering “Stormfather” as an epithet made me sound and feel like a complete doofus: 13 (the lone exception was when I was hanging out with my hard-of-hearing dad and thunder started rumbling in the distance and I just wanted to give him a heads-up about what was coming, so that was really more like, “Storm, father!” and, perhaps, shouldn’t be counted amongst the 14)That said, here’s the short answer for those of you waiting with baited breath for my unquestionably authoritative opinion as to whether this is a good book: yes.You’re welcome.Now then—for those looking for a bit more context and commentary, let’s dive in, shall we?
