https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/73100.This_Heart_of_Mine
“Are you demented, you stupid badger ? Is that your problem ? Or are you just an idiot ?""As to that, I... Did you just call me a badger ?""A bastard. I called you a bastard.”   I am writing this review while simultaneously sunbathing. I apologize for the suckiness. This Heart of Mine has turned me into a book lover. Or should I say, romance book lover. I rarely read romance novels before I discovered Susan Elizabeth Phillips. I own nearly every single book she ever wrote. I'm definitely a Sep
Did you just call me a badger ?""A bastard.
This Heart of Mine has turned me into a book lover.
Or should I say, romance book lover.
I rarely read romance novels before I discovered Susan Elizabeth Phillips.
I'm definitely a Seppie enthusiast.Her characters aren't perfect.
The story revolves around Molly Somerville (whom we previously met in It Had To Be You and Match Me If You Can) and Kevin Tucker from Nobody's Baby But Mine.
Some readers may have an issue with (view spoiler)[ Molly taking advantage of the semi-conscious Kevin.
I don't know how to explain it, it is definitely strange.
She’s now twenty seven years old and is the author of the adorable children’s book series Daphne the Bunny featuring Daphne and her best friend, Benny the Badger.
In their time at Windlake, Kevin and Molly got to know each other.
That nothing is more important than his football career.You can’t help but to fall in love with Molly and Kevin.
Thinking about Molly and Kevin, hoping that they would figure everything out and that I needed to get back to the book to make sure that they do.
I loved this book so much and can’t wait to read more by this author.
Then Dan accuses Kevin of using Molly for a quick roll in the hay, because, apparently, football players (ahem, Dan, you freakin' hypocrite) cannot actually love a woman because they are too shallow and don't care about women or love.
Phoebe refuses, accuses Kevin of using Molly to guarantee his continued career with his football team, owned by Phoebe.
We learn that Kevin is willing to give up everything, including his career as a professional football player, which is basically his whole life, in order to be with Molly, the woman who raped him and controlled his life and gave up nothing for him.
Blown away!Another winner by SEP. That woman doesn’t know how to write a bad book. I could tear out every third page from this book and it would still be one of the best books I’ve ever read.I swear her books emit some kind of invisible drug that makes you addicted to them.QUICK REVIEW:Enjoyment:: 5/5Writing style: 5/5Storyline: 5/5Hero: 5/5 Heroine: 5/5Secondary characters: 5/5 Hotness/chemistry: 3/5 Romance: 5/5 Angst: 3/5Darkness level: 2/5Humor: 4/5 Depth of the book: 5/5POV: multiple, 3rd person Triggers: (view spoiler)[miscarriage (hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
This story centers on Molly Sommerville and Kevin Tucker.
Though their lives spin in different directions they have a connection through Molly’s sister Phoebe and her hubby Dan Calebow.Molly ~  I loved everything about her.
He was living life in the fast lane until Molly decided to make him one of her rash decisions and it is one that will send them both over the edge.
When Molly begins to settle in and becomes a part of something that makes her feel good, Kevin only sees it as something he has to let go of.
They added a little spin on the story that touched my heart.
5 STARS[image error] SENSATIONAL True to my last review… I once again have a new favorite. Honestly, this series… the books are all so incredibly good that I am giddy with joy every time I finish one. Instead of boring you with my incessant gushing, I’ll get right to the meat…[image error] Molly Sommerville is twenty-seven. And after growing up as a bit of a trouble maker, she is finally finding her place in the world. She struggled through a lonely childhood as Bert Sommerville’s youngest daugh
Instead of boring you with my incessant gushing, I’ll get right to the meat…[image error]
Still sharing a close relationship with her gorgeous and successful older sister, Phoebe and her sister’s husband, Dan Calabow, who together now run the famous Chicago Stars football team; Molly is constantly crossing the path of her latest obsession… who also just so happens to be the muse for her Daphne the Bunny children’s books.
And this book had that added treat of Daphne, the infamous rabbit and her best friend, Benny the badger, who were the fictional characters in Molly’s on going children’s books .
I loved the way the author weaved the children’s story into Molly’s real life.
I had forgotten how good this book was. It was a re-read. Karen's updates made me do it!!It was sad, happy, funny, sexy. I loved Molly. I remember her from the very first book and it was nice to see her get her own story. “It was a kiss made in lonely dreams. A kiss that took its time. A kiss that felt so right she couldn't remember all the reasons it was wrong.”  This book sort of three stories going. We had Kevin and Molly. Daphne and Benny (how sweet were they?) and then we had Lilly and Liam
I had forgotten how good this book was.
It was a re-read.
I loved Molly.
I remember her from the very first book and it was nice to see her get her own story.
“It was a kiss made in lonely dreams.
A kiss that took its time.
A kiss that felt so right she couldn't remember all the reasons it was wrong.” 
This book sort of three stories going.
We had Kevin and Molly.
Another five star read from this talented author.Check out Karen's fabulous review ...Karen's Review
However, I didn't like it, so I don't think it really merits that 2-star "it was okay" sort of generosity.No matter how charming, self-sacrificing, and noble the hero Kevin was, I just couldn't like or enjoy reading about the immature, periodically TSTL, and impulsively reckless heroine Molly.
The first 15-20% of the book had me bellowing "WTF!!!????" Don't even get me started on what she did to Kevin.
Once the crazy WTFery was established, I kept reading in the hopes that Molly would redeem herself in some way or at least show some maturity or growth by the end of the book.
I'm definitely in the minority here, but I didn't love this. I intensely disliked Molly. I thought she was immature to the point of idiocy and I thought her actions regarding Kevin, his campground, and his career were extremely selfish and disrespectful.
Kevin Tucker...I never expected him to turn into such a gem of a man!The deception on the part of Molly in the beginning in the book had me wondering how I was ever going to past it.
This book had such a homey, family feel to it, and I was captivated by Molly and Kevin's story, almost like a teenage summer romance that becomes everlasting love.
So many sweet, funny memorable moments and the correlation between Molly's book characters and the romance playing out between her and Kevin...very cute.
But as an 27 years old independent woman (without a fortune) is she pretty pleased with her life, her writing, her sweet dog and spend quality time with her three lovely nephews.
And older nice summer guests who needs breakfast and afternoon tea.“Uhm, Kevin...""Be quiet, or I swear to God I'll take you right here."Yes, this was definitely Forced Sex.’Up in the woods, in a summer camp, starts a lovely love tale.
A kiss that felt so right she couldn't remember all the reasons it was wrong.’There are so many good elements here: Wonderfully designed second book characters —from the cute little dog, the sweet fairy bunny-tale, Molly's wonderful nephews, Kevin's mother etc.
¿Qué puedo decir? SEP tiene un don. Aunque no son precisamente cortas, todas sus historias las he devorado en un par de días; están muy bien escritas, tienen mensaje, evolución, personajes trabajados y de lo más variopintos, diálogos para aplaudir, detalles de esos que marcan la diferencia, un ritmo perfecto y ese je ne sais quoi que te hace cerrar el libro con una sonrisa tonta en la cara. Y mucho me temo (porque en el fondo no quiero terminar la saga), que hoy empiezo "Cázame si puedes".
To me, there was no excuse for what the heroine did near the beginning.Molly always had a crush on Kevin, and when they accidentally end up staying under the same roof, she goes through his things, finds a condom in his toiletries bag, goes to his room while he's asleep, gets into his bed (he's still sleeping), puts a condom on him and then proceeds to rape him.
At this point, I am imagining myself in Kevin's place, I was raped while I was asleep, there is a pregnancy and my boss is making me marry my rapist (because they are related) so that the child wouldn't be a bastard.
This travesty deserves 0 starsThis is basically the "love" story of a rapist (the female protagonist, Molly) and her victim (male protag Kevin).
What would it have been called if the situation was reversed and a man crawled into your bed while you were sleeping and proceeded to have intercourse with you!"Yeah, then it turns out the condominium broke.
Then her sister and brother in law, who are his bosses by the way, find out and, after brother inlaw beats the shit out of the fucking victim, they con him into marrying her sorry ass.
This was some fucked up shit.
Nuestra reseña en A la cama con... un libro Qué puedo decir? SEP es la más grande
So far, I've read Annabelle and Heath's story more times than I'd like to admit, because they're just adorable and I fell in love with them.If you've read any SEP, you know what's coming.
(view spoiler)[When Molly raped Kevin, I was convinced I had read something wrong.
Why in the hell did no one think it necessary to point out to SEP that having your main character rape the other main character, probably isn't the best way to start off your romance novel?
(view spoiler)[There was no redeeming the book after this incident for me.
Because rape isn't cute, funny, or sexy (hide spoiler)]
Kevin points out that she basically RAPED him, and they go their separate ways.Of course Molly gets pregnant, and when Phoebe, her overprotective sister, and Dan, her brother-in-law discover it, they don't rest until they've figured out who the baby daddy is.
I didn't really like Molly in her first appearance in the series, but here I outright hated her.Not only did I hate Molly, but because Phoebe and Dan from It Had to Be You are supporting characters in this, and behave absolutely atrociously to Kevin all the way through, I now retroactively dislike their book a lot more too.
After getting to pages 47 to 49 and a certain incident (see spoiler below if you're curious), then checking out some GR reviews for this book, I've realized I can't continue with it.
(view spoiler)[The female MC rapes the male lead while he is asleep in bed.
It's called out as unacceptable, but the story still goes on to pair these two up.
Especially one that's being set up as a Great Love Affair (capital letters straight from the book itself).
I'm appalled and cannot support this story.
(hide spoiler)]
Here Kevin faces his demons from his childhood face on, with Molly finally finding peace within herself in this beautiful place.Tentatively, Kevin and Molly find in one another friendship, and finally red hot desire for one another, that makes Kevin sweat profusely at the idea of getting all his emotions involved in finally inevitably falling for Molly.This is truly great story with a lovable cast of side characters and of course who wouldn’t love Molly’s fictional characters Daphne and Bunny with their witty and adorable insights into the beginnings of each chapter of the book.
Its like she is taking you into a dream world and you dont want to come out of it!Kevin and Molly are one of the sweetest couples i have read.
I feel terrible when Molly looses her baby and i literally melt when Kevin realizes that Sarah could have been so much like Hannah.
What's most beautiful about Kevin and Molly's story is how they grow, evolve and how they both understand each other's character flaws and fight for what either should get coz that is what they deserve...there is a sense of selfness to their love which is very refreshing.
4,5. SEP lo ha vuelto a hacer. Esta mujer siempre me convence pero Molly y Kevin han sido diversión, emoción y entretenimiento. Empezó un poco demasiado parecida a la tercera novela de la serie pero en seguida Molly y sus locuras desmarcan la historia para convertirla en un nuevo acierto. Voy a echar de menos a Daphne la conejita y a Benny el tejón ;) Epílogo de lo más original, te deja con una sonrisa tonta en la boca y con pena por poner fin a la historia. Reseña completa en http://www.lanarradora.com/2016/12/re...
Adoro cualquier libro de SEP, disfruto y me siento como si tuviera 18 años de nuevo.
Apenas he dormido y me levantado prontísimo para poder terminar este libro (¡que ya me había leído antes!)Es algo tan maravilloso poder leer libros donde los personajes crecen, se conocen entre ellos y sobre todo, se conocen a ellos mismos.Molly es asombrosa, aparentemente una chica normal, que lo es, pero dentro de ella hay algo que no va bien.
Aunque debo decir, que me entran unas enormes ganas de leer de nuevo el primero y volver a disfrutar con Dan y Phoebe.
5 Slytherin StarsMolly se pojavljuje u prvoj knjizi Chicago stars serijala kad je pravo derište, ali je odrasla i postala divna mlada žena.
Kevina smo upoznali u trećem delu serijala i njih dvoje su tako savršeni jedno za drugo.
Kevin je stao i neko je vrijeme samo gledao.
Bila je utjelovljenje snova koje je izgubio, snova o svemu što je želio, a nije ni bio svjestan.
Bila je njegov prijatelj u igri, osoba od povjerenja, ljubavnica koja ga je nevjerojatno uzbuđivala.
Bila je majka njegove djece i družica poznih godina.Bila je veselje u njegovu životu.
This book sooooo sooooo goooood!Oh my god! It was a re-read, but such a good one. Better than first time. huh...******************4th time re-reading, this time it was 4... Or i'm still in bad reading mood...
Тази част ми беше много приятна за четене със страхотно чувство за хумор и много забавни диалози, на някои от които с глас съм се смяла.
Това, което не ми хареса беше паралелната история с майка му Лили - нещо ми беше дразнещо и малко по диагонал я минавах и изобщо паралелните истории в книгите на СЕФ не са ми по вкуса.
И другото, което не ми хареса бяха образите на Фийби и Дан - ясно, че я обичат и искат най-доброто за нея, ама цялото това бъркане, където не им е работата, човек да откачи.
Relectura perfecta para salir de la resaca que tenía.Este par son perfectos. Me encantaron tanto como la primera vez. El principio es un poco lento pero el desarrollo de su relación y el trabajo en las personalidades de los protagonistas son geniales.Uno de mis favoritos de toda la saga sin duda. Kevin mi amor 😍❤️
Anyway, that was very childish of me since this happened to be one of the best SEP book I've read.
I loved both Molly, for her children's books, and Kevin, cuz he's 'duh man', jk.
Anyway, the secondary love story was pretty hot too (all that paint), but since they were older and both passionate artists, i had very little connection to them.The children were great and all the interactions with them were quite cute.
Who doesn't love a man who's good with children?
The best part of the book is Molly's narration.
I cracked when she fantasized about Kevin's 'conquering' and the book character parallels were adorable.
Todo lo que escribe esta mujer es sencillamente maravilloso. ...si bien me quedo con el anterior de la serie como el mejor. ...Ha sido una gran lectura. ...Tiene momentazos buenísimos ¡
This story was simple, but what made it great were the characters.
She has great talent when creating fascinating characters, and this is one of the things I love most when reading her books.In This Heart of Mine I got attached to Kevin even since the beginning.
I know, this is coming from the queen of immaturity, but I’m telling you there’s a limit to this.
But I must admit there are moments when these things make me smile.
I do have a heart, you know!Great read!
I almost gave up on this one in the beginning - it was a bit of a messy start but I'm so glad I kept going because I ended up loving this one. There were parts that made me angry, frustrated and sad but there was a lot that had me laughing out loud. This might be my favorite in this series.
