https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12218696-otogiz-shi
This is a self-examining story, looking at Japanese history and culture all through a humorous fairy tale lens.
Through this we see how the moral seems to change depending on how the tale is told (something we could apply to modern reworking of the works of the Brother’s Grimm as well).Before beginning his final story, he tells us that he originally intended to include the story of Momotaro, but that it felt unfitting.
With this book Dazai set out to examine Japanese fairy tales and frequently points out the lack of a true moral to many of them, expressing that they are really just tragic comedies that can be understood by children.
“Why can’t people get along without criticizing one another?” Urashima shakes his head as he ponders this rudimentary question. “Never have the bush clover blooming on the beach, nor the little crabs who skitter o’er the sand, nor the wild geese resting their wings in yonder cove found fault with me. Would that human beings too were thus! Each individual has his own way of living. Can we not learn to respect one another’s chosen way? One makes every effort to live in a dignified and proper man
Otogizōshi is a collection of fairy tales that Dazai wrote during the last years of the Pacific War.Despite the gloom and suicidal overtones of books such as No Longer Human and The Setting Sun, Dazai shows his wit and humour in this book and I’m welcome to a wonderful change from his works.
I really enjoyed it, after I got through Dazai’s constant breaks of ‘so I couldn’t do this with this story because of this and that’.
Dazai teaches us of tortoises in a passage (in another author note, fourth wall break), and I found I didn’t know of the things he wrote before reading this.
Dazai Osamu retells four classic Japanese fairy tales, in a way only he could tell them.
He takes these classic stories and reimagines them into delightfully fun fables as he works with his audience to decipher a meaning.
He gives the once simple characters life by applying to each a fascinating personality.
The narratives are quite clever and full of humor, some of which comes from Dazai's self depreciating comments spoken by him, the narrator, directly to us, his audience.
There is also a touch of sadness behind them, knowing that Dazai ended his life far too soon.
When you read something by an author you love and admire, it just relaxes you because you know you're in for a good time.
That's what reading anything by Osamu Dazai is like for me.
While he is an author that draws heavily from his own life and experiences, this was the first time I read something that he had created himself.
Have you ever pondered about why characters said something or did something in a fairy tale?
I don't ever know how to discuss books that I really love because it satisfies a craving in me that even I don't fully understand.
Although Dazai is better known for his downbeat works such as No Longer Human, this short book is at the same time amusing and thought-provoking.
There are only four tales in this short work, and the author places himself in the weft as another character, the storyteller.
Also, having first met the versatile, shape-shifting tanuki in contemporary anime such as "Pom-Poko", I was surprised that the gluttonous tanuki in Dazai's tale would require any kind of boat, given that they use their testicles for boating (and just about everything else) in other stories.
Una reinterpretación de cuentos populares japoneses con muy mala leche. La verdad es que me han divertido y sorprendido.
3.5/5Aunque la producción literaria de Osamu Dazai se halla un tanto desperdigada por el panorama editorial de nuestro país, no se me ocurre un sello mejor que Satori para emplazar esta estupenda colección de cuentos populares (o de cabecera) que reescribe el incomprendido autor japonés con su particular estilo y su heterodoxa versión de las enseñanzas que pretenden transmitir sus homólogos originales.
Con una edición muy cuidada, salpicada de notas aclaratorias, una fabulosa introducción y la versión original de los relatos, este 'Cuentos de cabecera' constituye una opción bastante recomendable para los enamorados de la cultura nipona.
All the stories are decent, I enjoyed them. It is always interesting to read anything Osamu Daizi write. Urashima-san's story was my favorite, the Dragon Palace is so whimsical.
Estos son valores raramente asociados a cuentos tradicionales (y mucho menos a algunos tan reconocidos como La historia de Urashima), pero definitivamente esta es una de las razones por las que el libro es un gran acierto.
Normalmente se piensan las traducciones como la manera de acercar al público de un idioma a la experiencia de lectura que tuvieron los lectores de otro idioma.
En Cuentos de cabecera se dan primero las versiones reinterpretadas de Dazai ante un lector que, a diferencia del lector japonés, es muy probable que desconozca la obra original.
Written around the end of World War 2, this book is Dazai's retelling of 4 Japanese fairy tales.
The basic idea here is that, rather than telling the stories in basic, direct, fairy-tale style, Dazai interposes his own narrative voice to expand upon the story; and to speculate on the meaning of the story, the inner thoughts and motivations of the characters.
The results are often slyly comic; for instance, in one story the main character is given a ride to an undersea palace on the back of a turtle, and Dazai has a long digression speculating about the exact species of turtle.
This book is an overwhelmingly enjoyable, witty, striking commentary on what the author describes as the "tragicomedy" of life.
That word, "tragicomedy", I believe sums up the overarching tone of the book.
The setting is framed around a father (the author) sitting in a flimsy air raid bunker in his backyard, with nothing but a child's picture book to keep his family distracted while the land around them is being bombed.
The combination of these two forces - whimsical comedy and a sort of tragic indifference - is what makes this book great.Overall, entertaining fables, and some razor-edged commentary on human psychology are blended perfectly together into a fairly quick read.
Before I read this book, I tried to familiarize myself with the stories retold here. Then I ended up reading the whole fairy tales story book. I had to say that Dazai-san picked the most intriguing stories.Although I had the same take with him on the old men with hen's story, I didn't understand his take on Urashima Taro's story. Not to say that I didn't like it. And I had to say, Japanese fairy tales are quite gory compared to the ones I read when I was younger. No wonder with novels then :-)
I picked this up because the last book I read spoke endlessly about the author and it made me curious. This is a rebelling of 4 everyday Japanese fairytales. A father in an air raid shelter with his family during WWII puts a spin on the tales. He reads like a Japanese semi-serious Terry Pratchett.
Initially, I had trouble getting use to the author's voice, but once I did, I really enjoyed his re-telling of these traditional Japanese tales.
Un libro muy original y entretenido. Imprescindible hacerse con una edición con los cuentos originales y empezar por ellos.
Recomiendo primero leer la versión original de los cuentos, antes de la versión de Osamu Dazai, se disfruta así más esta obra.
please love the world and hate the world more actively, and enjoy it all your life.
This is one book where the author's presence is way out in front - he talks about himself, his family, his reputation, the bomb shelter he's writing in, the war, politics, scholars, and everything else.
This guy can write for several pages about why the turtle in the fairy tale picture books can't be the correct turtle, and that turtle can't swim far underwater and yadda yadda.
The mother is already huddled inside this narrow trench, their two-year-old son strapped to her back."Sounds pretty close, eh?" the father says to her."Why can't people get along without criticizing one another?" Urashima shakes his head as he ponders this rudimentary question.
There are four stories in this book of fairy tales; The Stolen Wen, Urashima-san, Click-Clack Mountain and The Sparrow Who Lost Her Tongue, in which Dazai attacks and analyzes the characters, the plot and the relevance of the story and the impact of it in children during his time.
An additional theme that is also present, is the appearance of utopia, places of reprieve where the characters find themselves free to do what they please (the story of Urashima-san when he finds the Dragon Palace), a place you can find warmth that you cannot have at home (the Sparrows Inn in The Sparrow Who Lost Her Tongue).
Una recopilación y reinterpretación de algunos cuentos clásicos japoneses vistos desde la perspectiva de Osamu Dazai, un autor que se destaca por tener con un humor negro. En este libro podemos disfrutar de los cuentos originales (que recomiendo leer primero ya que están al final del libro) y de las interpretaciones de Dazai (los mismos cuentos pero modificados por Dazai) donde expone temas polémicos como la vanidad, el orgullo y el sexismo entre otros.Recomendado para todos los que les gusten los cuentos japoneses.
In his typical sarcastic and pessimistic fashion, Dazai retells famous Japanese fairy tales in his own way, adding to the characters and situation as he sees fit. I especially enjoyed his explanations of why he changed them the way he did, and his critical observation of these tales. A nice read, but it helps to at least know the fairy tales in their original form before reading this book.
An entertaining slightly different view on Japanese classic monogatari.
Don't remember fuckall, except a vague suspicion it wasn't over fast enough (and it's really, really short).
Not at all what I thought it would be. I also do not see why this is on 1001 Children books to read.
