https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/210929.The_Way_of_the_Heart
So not only was I challenged to be honest about some of the struggles in my heart, I was given some great tools by Nouwen to pursue a more contemplative life of prayer.As I was headed out that weekend, someone commented "Oh, I could never do that" referring to my plan to spend a couple of days in complete solitude.
But for many of us, the occasional ascetic experience of some sort of deprivation disrupts our system and routine just enough to realign our hearts and minds with Father, Son, & Spirit.If greed (materialism, coveting, money, etc) or anger (frustration, resentment, disillusionment, etc) are becoming part of your default posture I would recommend you spend some time with this text.
Nouwen writes here on solitude, silence and prayer. He writes this with much reference to the lives of the Desert Fathers and Mothers. In this he echoes Merton, who wrote a similar book. Every book I read by the likes of Nouwen, Merton and Rohr increases my appreciation. This is not just another run-of-the-mill book on spiritual practice, since the connection to the desert gives it a nice and refreshing slant. Very well done.
This time, I looked at my bookshelf and found this small book by Henri Nouwen, The Way of the Heart.Originally published in 1981, The Way of the Heart presents a few key insights from the Desert Fathers--Christian pilgrims in the 4th and 5th centuries who exiled themselves to the deserts of Egypt, seeking a deeper relationship with and understanding of God. Nouwen writes in with a caring, pastoral voice, especially for ministry leaders; but the content is really for any Christian.The three topics Nouwen focuses on are solitude, silence, and prayer.
The best book for blogging.from Stuff Christians Like by Prodigal JonSometimes people ask me for tips about blogging.
What I can tell you though is the name of the best book ever written about blogging:"The Way of the Heart" by Henri Nouwen.Here are three things I can tell you about this book:1.
I underlined almost every line on every page.The challenge with a blog is that it tends to make your life loud.
Bottom line, I heart this book.p.s. It was written in 1981 so it doesn't use the word "blog" in it at all but that's what books written before their time do.
(Upon my second reading)“Arsenius, flee, be silent, pray always, for these for these are the sources of sinlessness.”A valuable retrospective on the prayer life of the Desert Fathers, and Eastern Orthodox Christians.
All right-thinking folks of that era were full bore gloom and doom.
All right-thinking folks were sure we’d just elected an idiot who would only hasten the apocalypse.
Only, it didn’t turn out that way, did it?
Thirty years later much has changed and much hasn't.“I have often repented of having spoken, but never of having remained silent.” Arsenius
This book promises (from the book jacket) "Within this one small book lies the most relevant and inspiring challenge that we shall ever face: to surrender the compulsive noise of the world for the way of the heart that leads us to God." This book delivered on what was written in the book jacket!
I read this book very quickly and found myself wanting to withdraw from my daily life to a secluded spot somewhere so I could truly seek God with the hopes of hearing His words for me and my life.
I would highly recommend this book to anyone who is seeking a deeper experience with God. Great book!
Nouwen examined what the Dessert Fathers and Mothers have to say to ministers in our time. He sought to answer the question: “What is required of a man or a woman who is called to enter fully into the turmoil and agony of the times and speak a word of hope? (2).” In the teachings of the dessert fathers and mothers, Nouwen discovered the wisdom to be attained through the spiritual practices of solitude, silence, and prayer. In solitude, focused time with God alone and no distractions, we come fa
(2).” In the teachings of the dessert fathers and mothers, Nouwen discovered the wisdom to be attained through the spiritual practices of solitude, silence, and prayer.
In solitude, focused time with God alone and no distractions, we come face-to-face with our own nothingness which forces us to surrender ourselves totally and unconditionally to Christ alone.
Silence breeds an ever-growing charity from which we minister to others.
Nouwen focuses on spirituality for ministers because, “The discipline of leading all our people with their struggles into the gentle and humble heart of God is the discipline of prayer as well as the discipline of ministry (87).”
Admittedly I have been distracted in my Ministry because of the pressures and demands of all areas of my life.
It is so easy to fall prey to the busy-ness of life.
Through three simple ideals - solitude, silence, and prayer - this book teaches the value of living with not only the mind of Christ, but also letting his heart become our heartbeat so that we can find health in our own lives...and lead others to health in Him as well.
I read this book in about an hour.
Now I’ll chew on its teaching for awhile.
Everything I fear about silence and solitude, Nouwen explains thoroughly and beautifully so as to cast out all fear and inspire a deeper prayer life. He gives specific guidance and speaks to the mistakes I make when trying to pray and maintain a consistent and effective prayer life. Would recommend to anyone seeking to grow in relationship with God while living in the world and seeking to serve Christ's body while feeling that one can't find a great way to create space for God in a hectic life.
Flee, be silent, pray always, for these are the sources of sinlessness.-Abba ArseniusThe Way of the Heart: The Spirituality of the Desert Fathers and Mothers (1981) by Henri Nouwen is a short book with deep impact.
In essence, Nouwen examined the importance of solitude, silence, and prayer through the lenses of the desert fathers, Christians who lived in the Egyptian desert during the 4th and 5th centuries.
Learning to enter the presence of God, to pray with our whole lives, flows from solitude and silence.On the whole, I liked this book.
معرفش...بس مش زي كتب هنري نويين..لدرجة اشعر انه مش كتابه اساسا!!! معرفش يمكن عشان الاب داود لمعي حاطط التاتش بتاعه......مش عارفةالكتاب يغلب عليه الطابع الارذوثكسي بشدة و يمكن كمان لاني مش مقتنعة بفكرة رهبنة و الهروب للصحراء ...و كتاب كله كده !!! و أري انها عكس ما يطلبه منا الكتاب المقدس.بس الكتاب لطيف إن الناس ليسوا هم الغاية من حياتنا..بل الله..لأننا لن نجد راحة سوي في شخص اللهالصمت طريق آمن إلي الله
Good insights but mostly a collection of stories about the desert fathers. Solitude, silence, and prayer are indeed important. But more emphasis on Scripture (especially Christ's example in this) would have drastically improved this short volume.
This was my second time reading this. I read it 15 years ago, so I read it this time with very different eyes. Loved it - it's a short, rich book.
This little book packs a powerful punch as Nouwen discusses the disciplines of solitude, silence, and prayer.Solitude and silence are difficult to achieve in this world where we are continually bombarded by words, images, and noise in general.
The book has given me much to ponder from its few pages, and the following quote sums its point up nicely:"Solitude and silence can never be separated from the call to unceasing prayer.
But solitude and silence are for prayer.
But the word heart in the Jewish-Christian tradition refers to the source of all physical, emotional, intellectual, volitional, and moral energies."
anything about the desert fathers & early christian ascetic practices is a must read. this is a topic that needs to be known more in Christianity, especially the West.
An excellent introduction into the meaning and purpose of ancient desert monasticism and the practice of solitude, silence and contemplative prayer.
Best book of prayer ever This is a great book and help us to understand the way our life and prayer life should be, it comes with great principles to apply in a busy world
This is a short, understandable guide to the principles of contemplation- solitude, silence, and constant prayer. Really helpful.
A beautiful rendering of the process of solitude, silence, and prayer!Especially love Nouwen’s take on solitude as a place to overcome your fears, thoughts, and distractions and literally come to the end of yourself.
Finding solitude and silence is a struggle, one which never seems to be adequate. I could use constant reminders at this point to practice praying without ceasing. All good and worthy ideas, but I feel a bit stymied by total inadequacy.
Compiled from a lecture series Nouwen taught regarding the Desert Mothers and Fathers, _The Way of the Heart_ describes in detail three qualities often lacking in modern Christian spirituality--solitude, silence, and prayer.
Silence, like solitude, is not simply "not speaking," but, as Nouwen puts it, "listening to God." And lastly, in "hesychastic prayer" solitude and silence become not the "selfish asceticism" they would be if practice for their own sake, but a very real way to live.
One comments to the other, "Have you ever seen such riches?" The other sadly references the story in Acts; "Silver and gold we have in abundance, but the power to raise the sick is gone from us." So some of the saints decided to flee from this shipwreck in search of find land on which to stand.
These exercises that Nouwen gives to us land us face to face with what is in our heart.
And that is the story of the desert fathers as Nouwen tells it.
In the desert they found life boats so they might pull the whole world after them.
Yet, I know He is respected among christians as a great teacher about spirituality and it’s not my intention to diminish his teaching or his life purpose.With that being said, The Way of the Heart is about the story of the desert fathers (you can read more on Wikipedia), those who chose to run to the desert shortly after persecution ended in the Roman Empire and christianity was the official religion during Constantine’s reign.But this is not only a history class, Nouwen focuses on the practices that these “fathers” and “mothers” experimented during his life in the desert: solitude, silence and prayer.All these practices are more famous or recognized among roman catholics, more accurately among monks and nuns in monasteries, enclosed in meditation and prayer.
I personally believe that new believers need to feed primarly on basic teachings first.
Written for ministers, this book provides an argument for solitude and contemplative prayer and meditation as alternative and a more authentic route to "god Closeness" than bake sales, fund drives, volunteering, and choir service.
It emphasizes the value of silence versus words, and explains beautifully how, in the West, we have become a culture of words.
But words mean less and less and are spoken to convince, condemn, sell, manipulate, and entertain.
For me Nouwen does an adequate job of describing what Eastern sages and the Desert Fathers have always practiced, and what contemporary Eastern practitioners continue to practice -- silence and solitude as a way of being in constant awareness (prayer).
I have read this small what I will call "Modern day Classic"many times since it's first publication.
I have a few copies.
I have one "dog eared" paper back which I gave to my father in the early 80's.
He read it over and over again as I will continue to do for the rest of my life.
In this day and age of darkness and turmoil I encourage all Christians certainly to read Nouwen's work, "The Way of the Heart, " it will indeed assist you as you strive to make sense of your life through the lens of a living, breathing, life giving faith.
This was a life changing book for me. Nouwen discusses three of the disciplines of the Desert fathers and mothers, solitude, silence and prayer. The purpose of the book can be summed up in the following quote, "Our compulsive, wordy and mind-oriented world has a firm grip on us, and we need a very strong and persistent discipline not to be squeezed to death by it."
Thought-provoking and simple reflections on the value of solitude, silence, and prayer. I especially enjoyed the section on prayer and how it will change our hearts by allowing us to share in God's heart for humanity.
More and more I'm thankful for the small books, simple but profound ones--those that are just long enough to get you off the couch and motivated to do the work that needs doing, reaching the heart. This is one of those books.
Amazing. It's an easy read, but best to digest it slowly. I'll keep this one on my desk (and not the shelf) as I'm sure I'll return to it over and over. Anyone wanting a fuller experience in solitude, silence, and prayer should read this.
Re-read this one and I didn't get much out of it at all. This is one of those books that has come along at the right time for me. Its very short but has so much depth that it definitely needs to be meditated on. I'm going to read it again and again.
