https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22051924-the-short-happy-life-of-francis-macomber
I was not too fond of any of the characters of this story but I have to admit something: I don't remember being so repelled by a female character since Cinderella's stepmother.
I have been possessed by Walt Disney now, stop it.
(Hemingway deserves patience; I am still trying to adjust.)This is a story about many things, but it mostly involves the loss of cowardice and control.
What has started tiresome to me became a pulsating prose that revealed a story infused with fear, contempt and the desire of controlling everything.
One of Hemingway's longer short stories, "The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber" contains all his trademarks: men who use violence to mask their insecurities, an assertive woman described in demon-like terms, and lots of blood and guns and gore.
On a deeper level, "The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber" inspires many Hemingway-related questions.
Does Hemingway's portrayal of male characters deconstruct or perpetuate toxic masculinity?
Overall, I do not really recommend this piece, but if you want a gruesome short story with some interesting, unlikable characters, you might like "The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber."
A safari trip is an amazing experience to be had in reading The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber. To be part of the death and the life—the hunt, in its anticipation and its valour—of the creatures of the safari. To go through the rites of manhood, and face our lives with courage. Ah, the glory of being alive, and fighting for it! Hemingway tells us all that we need to know about the struggle of living, and how to live with honour.
*read for class*
This short story has stayed with me since I read it at school when I was I think 15 or 16 and has always been lurking in the back of my mind and surfacing at unexpected times, particularly the character Francis Macomber. 30+ years later I reread this story having come across it by chance and can understand why it has always been there. This is an incredible story. There is not much to like about it but it is brilliant in it's perfection of ugly detail.
Women....
But, with the start of the New Year, I've decided to restart tis particular project.As a huge percentage of the books are dedicated to the ancient Greek and Latin authors, I've decided to work my way from the end to the beginning rather than the other way round.The last on the list is Samuel Beckett's 'Waiting for Godot' - which I've read.
A short story, written in that bold-stroke Hemingway style, you can see why it has been chosen as representative of his work.
Much has been written about women in Hemingway's life.
It's very peculiar. Hemingway tackles the stereotypes of masculinity head on... Which made this story amazing in a sense
I thought the ambiguous ending was interesting, but the hunter's sexism was hard to stomach.
Without mentioning anything obvious, Hemingway always manages to tug at the heartstrings.
Short stories often seem to paint a picture of a feeling more than they tell a concrete story.
The feeling this story was painting shifted throughout and ended up somewhere completely different than where I thought it would be.On a technical level, I did not always appreciate the POV switches, and I wonder if it were always necessary, but it was always engaging.I read this before watching the 1947 film version of this story, The Macomber Affair.
After reading the story, I'm curious to see how they turn it into a 90 minute film, but I appreciated the film of The Snows of Kilimanjaro more than the story.
I guess Hemingway's short stories are just not for me. I think he writes beautifully in novel form, but his short stories have all left me feeling unsatisfied. I decided I won't read any more after this one, since they always leave me feeling like it had been a waste of my time.Well, I was glad that Francis became his own person at last, and got to experience fulfillment for however short a time. I think that that made his life worthwhile. I agree that less important to live long than to  really
I guess Hemingway's short stories are just not for me.
I think he writes beautifully in novel form, but his short stories have all left me feeling unsatisfied.
I decided I won't read any more after this one, since they always leave me feeling like it had been a waste of my time.Well, I was glad that Francis became his own person at last, and got to experience fulfillment for however short a time.
I think that that made his life worthwhile.
I agree that less important to live long than to 
really live.
It's not easy to give my opinion of this story. ***SEMI SPOILERS AHEAD***It was hard to read the descriptions of the hunts, as there was so much cruelty conveyed (which makes me think they're accomplished as descriptions, although I wonder whether Hemingway, so fond of hunting himself, would look upon them with the same feelings of sympathy and pain for the poor animals as I did). The tension that Hemingway builds here for the three main characters is, I think, superb. And the ending, climactic and puzzling. In sum, a great short story, even if hard to read in part.
How much quality content can one piece together in 33 pages?The thoughts of a lion. A shot lion. A majestic, dying, lethally dangerous wounded beast. A swishing rush crawling in the tall grass. Who shot the lion? Abject cowardice, intrigue, raw lust and sex. A condescending white hunter. A confused wife. And that's just about the lion. A good kill! Or is it?Then three cape buffalo thunder towards the hunters.... Honor, redemption - and death. Who dies and who suffers a dreadful loss worse than death?
My take away from this short story was sadness. Sadness that the main character was part of a loveless marriage, that he felt such need to prove himself, that he was unable to do so. Sadness that the wife was such a disagreeable person, that she too had to be disappointed in her marriage, that she had so little concern for her husband. The entire point of the trip was unpleasant to me, though I realize I am looking at it thru the lens of 2017.
I didn't like this. The characters are all awful, but the writing was good, I guess, which is why it got two stars instead of one. This is a short story, but I'm counting it in my reading challenge because I also read Hills Like White Elephants and Indian Camp, and because I suffered through enough Hemingway that I deserve to count it.
Hemingway had such a way of shedding light on the human condition. He was also a genius when it came to word choice, especially in regard to dialogue. I will certainly be reading more of his classics.
A four-word short story, befitting the heap of dung (read cliches) that is Hollywood. Excuse me while I puke, for the philosophy behind this story reminded me of the most nauseating western films starring John Wayne.
Well, two men killing animals for sport, one of whom is your typical Hemingway and the other who is a mean ol’ coward. Obviously includes a strong-willed lady, who is hated on by the men. Gory, violent, and kind of despicable while still gripping you.
Wow! in a short story of 33 pages, we get to know Francis Macomber, his wife and Wilson the mercenary hunter, in a trip to kill wild animals in Africa.And we witness how this trip effects each and every one of them.
Full of phallic imagery and toxic relationships. Fun times.
Nagu kõikide novellikogude puhul, on ka siin raamatus suurepäraseid lugusid ja mõned mitte midagi ütlevad lookesed. Ja kohati on ka eesti keelne tõlge pisut kummaline.
Read for a class, the symbolism and two part plot make for a deep read.
Pretentious and Overrated, like most of Hemingway's work.
I hate the character of Margot and the hunter, poor Macomber
This story is about a man, Francis Macomber, and his wife, who are visiting a safari with Franis intending to hunt lions and other animals, in order to assert his authority, especially with his wife challenging him by mocking him and acting on attractions with other men.
However, Francis is more 'cowardly' than he or his wife would like him to be, and this poses a lot of trouble, especially in the presence of their safari guide.The writing expresses hunting in great detail, and it was fairly cruel and harsh on me to read it.
I can clearly see some of Hemingway’s beliefs seeping through this short novella. The story has elements of misogyny and manliness (braveness defines a “man”).However, this delves into the power dynamics of a relationship and how people are not too keen with giving up their dominance over another.
They went hunting one day with a hunter named Robert wilson.
Robert wilson and other hunters went with them to kill a lion.
They went in and the lion attacked them and Francis ran away like a coward.
Soon When they were killing the buffalo since one went in the bushes, Margot shot Francis from the car since she knew that she was going to leave her.
I have went in a forrest as well like the time Macomber, Robert and other hunters went to put the lion down.4.
What type of person would read this book.
In this story, Francis Macomber, Margot, and Robert Wilson is the three main character.
This three characters went safari to hunt the lion.
At the end of the story, Margot shot Francis.
Margot is Francis' beautiful wife.
Francis is a coward who is afraid of hunting lion and also to his wife.
However Margot is also afraid about losing her husband.
She suddenly recognized that Francis is getting braver, enough to leave Margot.
She was afraid to losing him.
There were hided meaning between the sentences so it was kind of challenging to understand why did Margot killed her husband.
Mr.Macomber who kept failing at hunting, Mrs.Macomber who was ashamed of her own husband, and Wilson who was the guide and hunting helper of Mr.Macomber are the main characters of the book who lead the story.
He started to feel very nervous and worried about hunting and asked for helps to the helper Wilson for the successful hunting.
Even though Mr.Macomber got some help from the helper Wilson, he couldn’t control himself and kept failing at hunting.
When he finally succeeded with hunting, he got shot by his own wife Mrs.Macomber who had kissed and slept with the helper Wilson.
