https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30257963-12-rules-for-life
The author presents his interpretive schemes as objective truths about human nature and the only display of humility is found in the introduction.--------------------------------------For those seeking an alternative to Jordan Peterson’s dark vision of the world, questionable approach to truth and knowledge, and retreat to religion, they will find the answer in Bertrand Russell, whose essays on religion seem to, at times, be speaking directly to Peterson himself.
It needs hope for the future, not looking back all the time towards a past that is dead, which we trust will be far surpassed by the future that our intelligence can create.Russell wishes to replace fear, religion, and dogma with free-thinking, intelligence, courage, knowledge, and kindness.
If you've never read a book in your life, you'd think JP is super smart: that baroque style of writing, the never-ending sentences, all those references to science and philosophy - "how does the man do it!?" you ask yourself.It's simple.
The book's actually rubbish but you have nothing to compare it with.----------Nov 2018: Since this review is getting traction, please note that these were my impressions right after plodding through this dull book and I'm not going to waste my time dismantling his pseudo-scientific rubbish - many other reviewers have, some more qualified than me.
Have some respect for yourself, even fantasy books would be a better use of your time and brain.
I'm reading some better books right now.
And then all the wisdom goes down the toilet in one particular chapter when he makes a farce of his whole argument.
But why leave out the revolutions gone right?
I read this book because I was open to hearing from Peterson.
The other logical inconsistencies here were that he keeps using the animal kingdom (i.e. crabs and lobsters) to make a point about human nature--specifically on gender and sexuality, but then in his other more lucid arguments, he argues that we need to fight our nature (self-sacrifice and obedience).
Peterson keeps talking about women being chaos and men being order.
In his earlier book, Maps of Meaning: The Architecture of Belief, Peterson connects the stories we share with our earliest ancestors with modern knowledge of behavior and the mind.
In September 2016, Peterson released a couple of videos opposing an amendment to the Canadian Human Rights Act which he contended could send someone to jail for refusing to use a made-up gender identity pronoun.
Peterson went on to testify before the Canadian Senate, and has emerged as a foremost critic of postmodernism on North American campuses.Postmodernism is the “new skin of communism,” In Peterson’s view.
For this new and greater audience, a more accessible, more affordable compendium than Maps of Meaning was called for.
A soothing and seductive balm for the butthurt.
I am fascinated by the cult surrounding this man who, as a previous reviewer noted, relies far too much on simplistic interpretations of Biblical stories and the Disney versions of fairy tales to the expense of all else.
(I guess Lilith and Athena might complicate that Easy Bake reimposition of a male-centered narrative.) Here's what I don't get: None of this is new.
The guy can tell a story.
Too bad it's a frighteningly regressive one for women.
And no: Women's Studies departments are not propagating a myth that the world was once a glorious matriarchy.
A book by Jordan Peterson, I won’t be able to do it justice.
The book includes information that I knew, did not know, and information I knew but did not know I knew (like a Peterson lecture).
The world is a horrible place filled with suffering.
2. If you want the world to be better,start with yourself.
We need both for a functioning society.
We need to grow and adapt whilst not getting rid of traditions and traditional structures, they might be very important.
This is a book I would recommend to everyone whether you’re familiar with Peterson or not.
Peterson appears to provide both groups with philosophical selling and political talking points that promote a conservative social agenda.Peterson is a Jungian psychoanalyst, apparently by conviction as well as by training.
Similarly, social conservatives like the idea of personal responsibility as part of their ideological portfolios.
Peterson’s version doesn’t use the pyramid selling techniques that made EST so popular, particularly among the highly educated, but the combination of the internet, cable television, and the intellectual vacuum of evangelical and political conservatism has the equivalent functional role.
12 Rules promises to be the focal point for the political right for some time to come.
Peterson, 12 Rules for LifeI'm generally not a fan of self-help books and this one would have probably never hit my to-read shelf if a good friend of mine hadn't invited me to attend a live Jordan Peterson lecture in Phoenix a little over a week ago (June 1, 2018).
I found his lecture -- like I found his book -- fascinating.
These don't do a good job of actually getting to the root of what Jordan Peterson is saying.
Personally, I think 80% of what Peterson is saying is actually NOT bad.
I wish this book had been around to read when I was 18.
Then back to lobsters; on to a wild fugue through a few hundred million years of evolution; a brief segue about how at different levels of abstraction nature alternates between permanence and chaos, and how part of music's appeal is the recognition of this; and then Peterson concludes by recommending good posture.The whole rest of the book is like this.
If every episode of hand-washing and ham-refusal reminds you of Original Sin, you will spend a lot more time thinking about morality than you otherwise would.So I can't really review the advice itself, although it's good.
If you read his book and follow his advice, will it improve your life?
As I wrote on Twitter, this book contains pockets of silliness connected by long stretches of common grace on fire. Really worthwhile.

PULLING THEM BUCKO’S UP BY THEIR BOOTSTRAPS, B. PETERSON STYLE“A list of the people who ought to be killed...Starting with these people who read self help books…why do so many people need help?! Life is not that complicated. You get up, you go to work, eat three meals, you take one good shit and you go back to bed. What’s the fucking mystery?!"- American comedian George Carlin, from ‘Complaints and Grievances’Well, he’s probably down there now, that curious George, reproachfully screaming up at
Apparently, Peterson worked 5 years on it, but one wonders how many hours in that time span were actually devoted to the enterprise.
It was apparent to me quite early in my reading that the sometimes overly sprawling and – this is ironic, considering the book’s title – chaotic Peterson (who is not exactly a prose stylist) above all needs restraint and clear focus when performing writing duties, and no editor worthy of the name seemed to have been present during the process to assist him in making that happen.
But, like no doubt millions of others were inspired to do, I went and picked up a copy of Peterson's newly released book, "12 Rules for Life: An Antidote to Chaos", eager to delve deeper into the man's mind.I couldn't even finish it.
Peterson's "rules" would work well on a site like Quora that exists as a place for users to go for quickly absorbable bits of information.
Peterson's rules do not make the transition from a list on Quora that you can read in five minutes to a 450-page book well.
"12 Rules for Life" reads all too often like one of those Christian self-help books.
I cracked it open only to discover a study of the bible and christian religious stories while expecting a book on psychology, deceiving. Didn't finish it.
As Peterson says, hell is a bottomless pit, and life has taught him that there’s no situation so bad that you can’t make it worse.Logan Paul says “Zero people shouldn’t have a hero” (hahahaha…)Well I think it’s useful to have role models.
We can’t live with our faces rubbed in sobering truth day after day—and that’s why I will combine his messages with other favourites, such as affirmation and meditation advocate, Louise Hay. Peterson may well be referring directly to her practices when he says he thinks people who believe you can be happy are delusional because they’re refusing to accept the true nature of life.
More than anything else, it appears, Petersen believes in mindful growth and continued evolution as both a fact of life and the desired response to its challenges.And therein lies, I think, the one weakness of the “12 Rules for Life” worldview.
And I do think that socialism and relativism, particularly feminism and the oppression of the white patriarchy (which he doesn’t deny but contains), to differing degrees, still offer plenty of room for productive development.In the end, the dichotomous worldview that is at the heart of Petersen’s twelve rules, I believe, is the right one, so long as we don’t exclude all other worldviews and their ideology.
For those lacking meaning (a very profound and painful thing to lack) Peterson throws together everything from evolutionary biology, Bible exegesis and native mythology to Jungian psychoanalysis and stories from his own life to try and reconstruct a new metaphysical sense of being.
I suspect you'd only be able to do so if you already in some vague way shared this esoteric belief.It really feels as though this book was written for the type of person who'd have otherwise been attracted to the shallow liberal-nihilist New Atheist style of thought.
Peterson decries the rights agenda and the railing against patriarchy, partly with the argument that Western society is the least partiarchal and the most free there has ever been.
But he never asks himself why this is so, because the answer of course is that those freedoms have been won by people in the past railing against oppression and proclaiming their own right to a place at the trough - workers, women, minorities.
If there hadn't been those 'progressive' moves, for want of a better word, we would still have slavery, we would have less worker representation than we do (though we're heading the wrong way again), women would still be tied to the home, and so on.
Awfully verbose, incoherent, and hurried text without any content original enough (on top of his online lectures) to grant writing this lengthy book. The rule about telling the truth stands out as a notable exception.
First, because of the endless politicization of this man, a couple things to know about me, if you're trying to determine what 'team' I'm on: Stop it.
The solution is to skip quite a lot of this if you're not interested, and take what you find useful from the good parts of the book.If you want to see why people are interested in this man, and a brief summary of why courage, honesty and knowledge can be so powerful, you need go no further than watch a now-infamous interview between Dr. Peterson and a British journalist named Cathy Newman.
However, the importance of this tome lies in the depth behind each of these simple suggestions and the weight of philosophical, psycho-analytical, experiential, and rhetorical/literary evidence Peterson brings to bear.In such a collection, certain Rules will appeal more to various people, despite their near universal applicability, and for me it was the final four.
Where many have produced irrelevant concatenations or peripatetic philosophical/psychological meanderings, Peterson has provided a profound and directly applicable series of, "Rules," that will likely improve the lives of many.
Unlike what the title suggests, this book is not a self-help book, even though it does help the self a lot; rather it's the deep views of a serious thinker about life's most important questions.
At a time where the truth of many opinions are based on the loud voices that preach them and the forces that bully the oppositions, Peterson's original thinking is a breath of fresh air.
Even if you don't agree with him in everything, you will definitely learn many things from him and more importantly you will have respect for his character and how he stands for his principles.
Core tenets such as listening to what others have to say and trying not to compare one’s self to everyone else seem to fill much of the narrative, as Peterson seeks to push the idea of the inner view to betterment, rather than one of comparison.
I found some tidbits highly thought-provoking, but I am not yet sure if I will return to take more detailed notes for personal betterment.I will be the first to admit that I am not one for self-help books or those that seek to point out flaws with a recipe for success.
In the case of JBP though, I can now say that I was right before I read this, as his positions are indeed made remarkably clear in his myriad lectures, interviews, and podcasts.
12 Rules for Life is a tightly packaged and popularized version of his central thesis, namely a centrist/“classic British liberal" political stance, undergirded by the Jungian psychoanalytical precept of the archetype, and Taoist notions such as striking a balance between order and chaos.
Despite what Peterson identifies as, despite what he claims, his political views are fundamentally not "centrist" or "liberal".
I bought this thinking it was a self-help book - it sort of is, but really it's a tour around some of the most important impulses of the human mind. The fundamental insight from this book is that our norms and culture exist for a reason and that attempts to interfere with those are likely to have profound detrimental impacts on society as a whole and individuals who won't know how to relate to other people properly. Sadly, it's all very true.
( This is one of the ways to influence and shape 'white people' and include them in Peterson's crusade against the REST just like his guru Trump).5 Democracy is not working.
All this create fear in Peterson because all this goes against the 'white-order' of his world.
( I wonder if he would say the same about politicians like Trump in the Arab world.
(Figures like Obama must exacerbate that great past when the world was so 'white').10 He agrees that women, in general, should be paid less.
12 Rules (whittled down from an original 60 something) is about how to improve how you live. Each rule is explained in detail, and Peterson goes into the meaning of each subject philosophically, psychologically, and using varied examples from life. Although far more accessible, 12 Rules follows on from Peterson’s other book, Architecture of Belief, and examines the mythology, biblical similes and ancient stories, as well as evolutionary systems which, after all, have guided us behaviourally and morally for thousands of years longer than logos has, or can. Peterson guides us through a refreshing and beautifully thought-out philosophy of living.
Disgustingly boring. Could not, for the life of me, listen more than 25% of the book. I’ve enjoyed talks from Peterson but definitely not this book. I love others books on similar topics but really this book could’ve been condensed. There were too many unnecessary paragraphs and reiterations.
I admire an author that through his words, can make me feel like a child being scolded by parents for my poor life decisions, while I lay on the floor having being reduced to a pile of twitching goo...
He was not so much writing a book, but telling you the way that life is!
I, like many others I am sure have read numerous self help books, that state things like "You can be great if you put your mind to it" and "You are just like everyone else, if you dream it you can achieve it!" Well...
