https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7970550-diaboliad
We follow our hero and main character, Comrade Korotkov, a gentle, quiet clerk who would like nothing more than to continue his predictable routine at Main Central Supply (suppliers of Match-making Materials, that is) - and you have to love Bulgakov's telling us the unit is not only `Central' but also `Main Central', adding a pinch more spice to the satirical stew .
Toward the end, in Chapter Nine, TYPEWRITER TERROR, we read what happens in one of the government offices: "The wall fell apart before Korotkov's very eyes, and tinkling their bells thirty typewriters on desks began to play a fox-trot.
Introduction & Notes, by Julie Curtis--Diaboliad--The Fatal Eggs--No. 13, the Elpit-Workers' Commune--A Chinese Tale--The Adventures of Chichikov
5/5No. 13Once you give assets back to “The People”, they soon prove not able to handle it.It only takes a spark … and the caretakers hoarded kerosene … 3/5A Chinese Tale How to prove worthy of a Soviet citizenship … and then you die.4/5The Adventures of ChichikovOnce upon a time lived a man who ceased an opportunity.Thanks to endless rows of bureaucracy the opportunity grew larger, and as The Holy Scripture says; “For whoever has, to him more shall be given …”.Thus encouraged, our man buys property, land, sets up businesses and factories in what is today known as a” carousel scheme”.
This knowledge gives new meaning to the cover design of the Oneworld Classics edition:Things become even more bizarre for Comrade Korotkov when, temporarily blinded in one eye after quality-testing the matches, he misreads a memo as:“‘All typists and women generally will in due course be issued soldiers’ uniform drawers.’‘That’s fantastic!’ Korotkov exclaimed in rapture, and gave a voluptuous shudder, imaging Lidochka in soldiers’ drawers.”The surrealism of the story is heightened by the location of MatchMat offices in the former sites of Die Alpenrose, a leading restaurant in pre-revolutionary Moscow, and a girls’ boarding school.
"Usta ile Margarita"nın gelişini haber veren, tam Bulgakov'dan çıkması beklenecek bir bürokrasi taşlaması. Ama bana kalırsa uzamaması isabet olmuş. Bu uzun öykü haliyle bile çok yorucu bir okuma oldu benim için.Bulgakov severlere tavsiye ederim.İyi okumalar.6.5/10
This book contains five different stories by Bulgakov: DiaboliadThe Fatal EggsNo. 13, the Elpit-Workers' CommuneA Chinese TaleThe Adventures of ChichikovI did not read the final story, as I will wait until I've read Gogol's Dead Souls before I do that.
Diaboliad is an absolutely hilarious story, a funny satire of Soviet life.
'This is Gogol and Dostoevsky transposed from the city of St. Petersburg to the city of Moscow" (Introduction xiii).
Short, but fairly powerful, and pretty sad.All in all a great collection of stories, with a very helpful and good introduction written by Julie Curtis: credit to her for that.
One of the things against which Bulgakov railed at the time he was writing these five stories—Diaboliad, The Fatal Eggs (really more of a novella), No. 13, the Elpit-Workers' Commune, A Chinese Tale, and The Adventures of Chichikov—was a campaign, begun around 1921, which proudly claimed that satire no longer had a role to play in Soviet literature.
I think that Bulgakov singlehandedly shows, through these tales, that there is always a need for satire—especially if it is done as masterly as he did it.
Bulgakov bu uzun öyküsünde sıradan bir insanın başına gelen zincirleme aksaklıkları ve bunların sonuçlarını anlatıyor. Şiddetli bir Sovyet parodisi olmasının yanında günlük yaşamın boşluklarını ve saçmalıklarını da içeriyor. Yazarın kitaplarının neden uzun süre yasaklı kaldığını anlayabiliyorum. sovyet edebiyatı sevenlere öneririm.
The Diaboliad - ★★★Surreal and crazy but has moments of humor that I can appreciate.The Elpit Workers' Commune Building - ★Something just felt wrong with this story. I have a suspicion it maybe the translation. Or maybe it needed another edit. Rough and gritty but didn’t grab my attention much.A Chinese Tale - ★No.The Adventures of Chichikov - ★★★★Most enjoyable for this Gogol reader of Dead Souls. It’s like literary fanfiction from another one of your favorite Russians. Loved the ending in particular.
This is particularly true of Bulgakov's short stories, four of which are grouped in this attractive Oneworld Classics edition.The title-piece is "Diaboliad", featuring the unassuming office clerk Korotkov who is sacked from his job at the "Main Central Depot of Match Materials" for a farcical error.
One starts to feel that, whilst being no nostalgic sympathizer of the "ancien regime", Bulgakov had little faith in the utopian promises of Communism.The works in this Oneword Classics edition are presented in a new translation by Hugh Aplin who has previously translated Chekhov, Dostoevsky and Turgenev amongst others.
Four stories.
‘Diaboliad’ is a farcical satire on bureaucratic absurdity, a surreal reworking of Dostoevsky’s The Double that clouds the narrative’s clarity with too many oddities.
‘No. 13—The Elpit Workers’ Commune’ is even more strange, an over-the-top blackly comic story about a collapsing building and the ensuing casualties.
The tone is extremely uneven and lacking in a narrative viewpoint or point of focus.
‘A Chinese Tale’ is a little too time-specific to have any contemporary value.
Some editions contain the novella The Fatal Eggs which is a brilliant SF dalliance and one of Bulgakov’s most successful satires.
This I picked when at a friend's home, out of the sheer need to read something, because I had forgotten mine at home.
I finished the book the same evening, as well as  The Fatal Egg , a story by the same author.
This was humorous, especially because trying to imagine all the mess made me laugh at times.
It's very short but also very energetic, at all times something is happening and if you miss on it, you don't understand a thing!
I get the feeling I'll be reading some more from Bulgakov, because his style is purely dynamic and he masters character creation really well!
نشيد الشيطان ذات عوالم بولغاكوف والتي خبرتها في (المعلم ومارغريتا)، العالم الشيطاني الغريب والذي يقع فيه موظف روسي بسيط، تم فصله بسبب خطأ طباعي بسيط، وفي الطريق إلى تصحيح وضعه، يفقد وثائقه وتزداد غرائبية الأشياء التي يواجهها.
Orjinal edisyondan farklı olarak bu kitapta sadece "Diaboliad-Şeytani" isimli öykünün olduğunu önceden belirttikten sonra; kitap hakkında söyleyeceğim ilk şey, basım kalitesine gösterilen özenin diğer editöryel ayrıntılarda gösterilmediği.
Rusça'nın alemeti farikası sonucu gerçekleşen bu hatayı, maalesef hakkıyla çevirememişler ve bu hatanın ne olduğunu anlamlandırabilmek adına daha güzel bir dipnot metni hazırlanabilineceğini veya daha iyi bi çeviri yapılabileceğini düşünüyorum.
Bununla beraber son iki dipnot için metinde numara verilmiş olmasına rağmen herhangi bi metin yazılmasına gerek duyulmamış.
Bu tarz ufak tefek şeyler okuma zevkimi baltaladı diyebilirim.Şeytani ise sonu belirsiz Kafkaesk bi öykü olduğu için beğenmemem söz konusu bile olamaz.
Povestea unui funcționar dus la pierzanie de doi gemeni. Cadrul e specific lui Bulgakov: o lume lugubră cu personaje care apar și dispar (când, în fapt, totul e explicat prin prisma realului). Citind "Maestrul și Margareta", mă așteptam la ceva mai mult de la acest roman. Oricum, nimeni nu a excelat prin întreaga creație, iar Bulgakov e demn de a fi respectat pentru curajul de care a dat dovadă publicând aceste opere în contextul în care Rusia era guvernată de un pragmatic regim comunist.
Bulgakov's recurring themes like ignorance, bureaucratic bullshit, nonsensical paradigms issued by government and heard mentality, make an appearance.
Bulgakov's satire is a social commentary.
The satire is cutting and is mostly obscure.
Or was it Bulgakov's stream of thought that presented itself as a short story?
An okay story with much political angst than any in this collection.A Chinese TaleYeah...no.
A definite miss for this collection.The adventures of ChichikovA lot of reference to Nikolai Gogol which I missed.
A story that will have to be read again once I read Gogol's Dead Souls.
Hımmm...Bir bulgakov klasiği. Adeta bir rüyayı anlatıyor. Bir anlam bütünlüğü olsun derdine düşmemiş. Fizik kurallarını bile iptal etmiş, böylece bir dünya yaratmış.Bilemiyorum, muhtemelen önemli bir şeyler yapmış ama ben anlamadım v dolayısıyla da sarmadı.Uçuyorlar kaçıyorlar bişeyler.Denilen o ki bu kitap ünlü Bulgakov romanı "Usta İle Margarita" ya temel olmuş. E zaten o da aynıydı benim için.
A clerk is at his wit's end when things start to tumble out of control right after he gets the sack.This shit is insane but the best part is you will love it awfully much. That Bulgakov drives one crazy with his humour and sublime satire is only the beginning of the artistic journey and you are yet to discover much.After M & M, I am on an orgy of sorts chasing Bulgakov stories, with seemingly no end, and just how bizarre yet perfectly orgasmic all of his works are.
وعلى هذا فقدت خيط الرواية والأحداث في مخيلتي وتوقف عقلي عن الاستمرار باستيعاب تسلسل الأحداث، شعرت أنني دخلت في دوامة لا أفقه فيها شيئا وعاجزة عن تذكر الشخصيات التي تدخل وتخرج، بل عاجزة كل العجز في التركيز بالأحداث، وجو مظلم لا أجيد فيه رؤية الشخصيات، أو كما لو أنني أقرأ فراغًا أسودًا!انتهى بي المطاف أُسابِق لإنهائها أسرع للتخلص من كمية الخيال الذي فشلت بالتعامل معه وفهمه وبحثت بحثًا مضنيًا عن معرفة النهاية لهذه الرواية.انتهيت من الرواية، وبي صدمة من قدرة الكاتب على كتابة مثل هذا الخيال المبهر، لست متأكدة من نجاح المترجم في ترجمة الجزء الخيالي ترجمة ممتازة لأنني وجدت نفسي أقرأ تلك الأجزاء قراءة عين دون عمل العقل :/الرواية جميلة حقًا، وستعجب أكثر أولئك الذين يمكنهم استيعاب الخيال الغير مألوف، بالنسبة لي أجد صعوبة في استيعاب ذلك الخيال الذي لا أستطيع رسمه في مخيلتي، وهذه للأسف مشكلتي التي لطالما تمنيت أنني لم أبتلى بها :(
What did I just read?That was.....bizzare
Completa il gustoso libriccino l’ancor più breve “Le avventure di Cicikov: Poema in dieci episodi, un prologo ed un epilogo” nel quale Bulgakov fa muovere tra sogno e realtà personaggi Gogoliani, trasportati perlopiù da “Le Anime morte” e catapultati a Mosca in piena NEP.
Bulgakov, diliyle ve konularıyla zaten çok sevdiğim bir yazar; Şeytanname de Usta ile Margarita kitabının ön hazırlığı olarak gösterilen bir kitap ve bence Sovyet Rusya'sının bürokratik hantallığını, sıkışmışlık hissini hakkiyla veren bir novella çıkmış ortaya. Everest Yayinlari'ndan cikan versiyonunu okudum; çevirmenin sunuş yazısı Bulgakov ile Gogol'un Paltosu arasındaki miras ilişkisini anlatıyor ve cevirisiyle de keyifle okunan bir metin sunuyor açıkçası. P.S. Klasikleri okurken yazıldığı dönemi ve yazarını biraz araştırmak gerekiyor diye düşünüyorum, yoksa sonrasında "bir yerlere uçuyorlar, gidiyorlar, ediyorlar" veya "bir şeyler anlatmak istemişse de ben anlamadim" gibi ifadelerden öteye geçmeyen yorumlar çıkıyor ortaya. Bulgakov'a söz söyletmem asdfhsjjsbaj
هناك قرارات تكتب بأحرفٍ قليلة وتقرأها في ثوانٍ معدودةولكن هذه القرارات كفيلة بأن تخيّرك بين الموت أو العارفماذا ستختار؟أنت وحدك من تقرر... وإن كان هناك عوامل نفسية بداخلك، وخارجية تؤثر في سلامة وصحة ما ستختاره..إلا إنك محكوم بما ستختاره وما تريد أن تصيرهكُن أنت ولا تجعل غيرك يُحدد من أنت وما تُريد أن تكونه!
وأنشد الشيطان، فاستمعت له، ثم لم يعجبني صوته.شخصية تحاول البقاء أكثر وقت ضد الأنظمة الفاسدة الجديدة، وتنجح.الرمزية طاغية بشكل أكثر مما تقتضيه الحاجة وأكثر من ذلك الخيالات المكتوبة من تحوّل بعض الشخصيات إلى كائنات أخرى.
Nu știu ce am așteptat de la această cărțulie, dar mai mult de 3 stele nu-i pot da, deși, povestirile conțin: acțiune, suspans, mister și dramatism. Îmi place stilul lui Bulgakov, l-am cunoscut datorită romanului său arhicunoscut „Maestrul și Margareta”și în continuare vreau să-l descopăr.
Bulgakows Erzählungen sprühen nur vor Witz und Menschenkenntnis. Da ich kein großer Fan von Kurzgeschichten bin, mochte ich seine längeren Novellen "Die verhängnisvollen Eier" und "Hundeherz" am meisten. Man merkt, dass Bulgakows Beruf Arzt war, seine anatomischen Kenntnisse und die Beschreibung der OP in Hundeherz sind sehr bildlich.Jedenfalls eine große Empfehlung wenn man surreale Geschichten schätzt.
Maybe pick up this other collection - The Fatal Eggs and Other Soviet Satire 1918-1963 - which also contains *something* by Ilf and Petrov, so I doubt you'd go wrong picking that up in place of this."The Adventures of Chichikov" is a solid, amusing riff on Gogol's Dead Souls which has a light meta thing going on which is appealing on a couple different levels (both that I like some meta in my fiction, and that I like to see it pop up in older stories as a foundation for a lot of the weirdness that would follow).The title story - Diaboliad - is decent, and has some amusing settings and scenes, but the second half is jumbled and unnecessarily confusing.
بزعمي تعتبر هذه الرواية مفاتيح لروايته الأهم المعلم ومارغريتا، بدون هذه الرواية سيكون من الصعب قراءة الأخرى، فالأحداث الروائية في المعلم ومارغريتا معقدة بشكلٍ لا يمكن تصوره، بينما في هذه الرواية من الممكن الدخول إلى عوالم بولغاكوف.هذا العمل حالة صراع بين الإنسان وحلمه، بين الإنسان ومخيلته، بين الإنسان وسقوطه في حالات الوهم التي لا تنتهي رغم افتراض واقعية هذا الحلم، في العمل شتيمة هائلة للبيروقراطية السوفييتية، "بشخطة قلم" يتحول مصير إنسان إلى كارثة، يحاول الإمساك بخيوطها ليحلها فتتقافز الكلسونيرات الشياطين أمامه ولا يفلح، شتيمة للحياة السوفييتية بكل ما فيها من تعقيدات، ومديح في ذات الوقت لكفاح الإنسان السوفييتي.
Che confusione!!!Difficile stare dietro a tutti i movimenti, i personaggi, i discorsi veloci, le situazioni...Povero Korotkov! La sue sicurezze e la sua vita tranquilla e monotona vanno improvvisamente e inspiegabilmente in frantumi e si ritrova - di colpo - a dover combattere, tra inseguimenti e fughe, per il mantenimento del proprio posto di lavoro, confrontandosi con una burocrazia, quella russa, che ha dell'assurdo.Le ultime pagine riscattano un po' il racconto.OK, è assodato: Bulgakov non fa per me...
Descifrarea completă a analizelor sociale, religioase şi mai ales politice din opera lui Bulgakov mă duce cu gândul la încercarea dezlegării unui nod gordian cu mâinile goale. Nu îmi va fi greu să recunosc că aceste două nuvele nu se ridică la nivelul operei sale principale, ''Maestrul şi Margareta''.Stilul este acelaşi, însă lipseşte profunzimea. Am avut de gând să renunţ la lectură, apoi am vrut să îi acord trei stele, dar mă voi limita la două datorită scrierii secundare.
