https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1661474.On_Power
We all suffer as a result.“Power,” Jouvenel says, “possesses some mysterious force of attraction by which it can quickly bring to heel even the intellectual systems conceived to hurt it.” What more compelling practical example could there be of this maxim than the election of Donald Trump?
And power leads to many worse things than inequality - large-scale killing for example.“The extension of power,” Jouvenel says, “is responsible for the extension of war.” No religion has ever asked for the sacrifices demanded by the modern nation-state.
The answer, Jouvenel suggests, is that predestination is in fact a condemnation and warning about the essential evil of power in the hands of human beings.
When he moves from an ‘is’ to an ‘ought’ he is less convincing.His attachment to aristocratic republicanism, whether Roman or eighteenth century British, may represent more freedom for men who do not come under the gaze of the aristocrat than that offered by the State but petty oppressions, security and welfare do provide a reason for voluntary enslavement.He is not insensitive to the fact that welfare needs and the bad conduct of aristocrats help drive the rise of State power even if it is clear that populations will die (perhaps in a state of ‘false consciousness’) to preserve this Faustian bargain – an improved degree of protection and security.Of course, we are in different times now but what De Jouvenel might have noticed is that, as States weaken under the global market system, so protection for the population weakens and that the increase in ‘freedom’ since the 1980s is matched by an increase in insecurity.Security for the masses in return for blind compliance (with even intellectuals submitting to the myth of the democratic State) has been replaced across much of the West with security for the State against the masses.This seems to be a slow reversion to eighteenth century conditions.
Dependiendo de cúanto valoren los individuos su libertad (parece un trasunto de Fausto vendiendo su alma a Mefistófeles) canjearán esta por la seguridad que puedan obtener a través de una relación siervo-señor feudal; amo-esclavo; o, como sucede hoy día en el moderno Estado Social Occidental: a través de un complicado entramado de dependencias sociales que equivalen en la práctica a un vasallaje a la antiguo usanza, y que impiden que el indiviudo -al menos el de carácter menos sanguíneo- pueda o quiera emanciparse de un Estado omnipotente que le acompaña desde la cuna a la tumba y que le regala los oídos al modo, repito, del mismo Mefistófeles.
No, este libro solo toma los totalitarismos modernos como referencia para adentrarse en la historia, para indagar en el alma humana y comprender qué hay en su naturaleza, desde su origen en una comunidad social primitiva hasta llegar a las sociedades políticas avanzadas de hoy día.
De Jouvenel wrote (in 1945) a thorough and carefully dissected biography of "Power," always identified as a proper noun, in its political form as that impersonal entity that irresistibly exists to feed and perpetuate itself.The prose in much of the book is wonderful, making such a dense and somber topic very approachable:“Command is a mountaintop.
Barbarian invasions would be superfluous: we are our own Huns.”One of the most important books I've ever read and will likely give it a more thorough review after my second read.
My gateway drug to anarchism.
This remarkable book explains how sovereign power tends to accumulate and centralize in the state as governments become increasingly democratic until, reaching modernity, power has clothed itself with the name of the people and usurped even the place of God, destroying the rule of law and trampling all moral impediments to the will of demagogues and tyrants.
The book is dense with unique insights that become increasingly relevant with each passing year.
If you value life, liberty and the rule of law--if you are concerned about the direction in which our country is moving with respect to the same--then please read this book.
The first fourth and third fourth of the book are quite interesting, touching on advanced questions of power and history, respectively.Jouvenel asks why ideological systems intent on limiting power inevitably end up serving power, without going into great detail attempting to answer, which I found disappointing and hoped the book would mostly be about.
I would consider the first fourth and third fourth parts of the book the reason to read this work, but even there they do not make this work very technically advanced.
A powerful book with a great foreword. One can literally taste the era in which it was released, when Europe was in the height of turmoil. De Jouvenal offers a searing analysis of the dangers of Statism. The book is very enjoyable to read and his style is consistent throughout. At times, I thought it was a little too cynical of power and a little ahistorical.
Una lectura muy enriquecedora para comprender sobre los efectos del poder que no sólo se limita a lo estatal. Llama la atención que el autor sea liberal y que hable de un tema que apenas se limita a su negación dentro de la propaganda liberal.
This is a book that everyone that wants to understand today's society should read...
Worth alone 10 of the others books I've read this year
information on power by de jovvnel
It is a fascinating mix of history sociology philosophy and dialectic analysis. All intelligent citizens should read and reflect on the ideas that Jouvenel challenges us with.
Pretty good. Not easy to read, but filled with insight on the nature of government and systems of authority.
De Jouvenel’s central premise is that individual liberty can survive only in political systems where Power is subject to the Law and the Law is stable.
But then de Jouvenel himself has to bend over backwards to show that Divine Law which had to have co-evolved with custom, is both supreme and not man-made.
In practice though, de Jouvenel’s expectations of universality are as utopian as modernity’s expectations that ever-expanding democratic franchise will not subvert individual liberty.
De Jouvenel’s universal Law seems to be the opposite of that.
Quite detailed description of power as a concept and extremely knowledgeable understanding of its history. Just at a few times it was a bit too philosophical. However, I really enjoyed that everything was presented from an unbiased viewpoint.Definitely recommend it.
