https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1041437.The_Renaissance_of_the_Twelfth_Century
This is one of the foundational books in the field of medieval studies, and as such worth reading despite its venerable age.
(It was first published in 1927.) Haskins was one of the pioneers in reassessing the Middle Ages, demonstrating that the twelfth century is a key period in the history of Europe, a time of intellectual revitalisation and profound socio-economic change.
That said, this book is almost ninety years old, and its scholarship is quite dated and has been surpassed in many ways: not least because Haskins twelfth-century Europe is inhabited almost entirely, it seems, by men.
En todo caso la lectura del volumen que el lector tiene en sus manos me permitió empujar las puertas de esa antesala y sumergirme de lleno en una época llena de contrastes y pasiones.De la mano de la prosa limpia y erudita del profesor Haskins, conocí la labor que durante los años, estos sí oscuros, que transcurren entre la caída del imperio romano y las dinastías de los reyes francos, desarrollaron los monasterios y sus abades, copiando manuscritos incansablemente para consérvalos, conscientes de que allí residía la sabiduría clásica.”A partir de ahí, ella misma resume a la perfección el valor de la obra de Haskins, conseguir dar luz a un período ciertamente oscuro y darle valor al Renacimiento medieval incluso por encima del Renacimiento que todos conocemos:“Sí debemos reconocer que el gran Renacimiento no fue tan único ni tan decisivo como se ha supuesto hasta ahora.
Haskins was the scholar who coined the term 'Twelfth Century Renaissance', and thus, opening new field of inquiry.Haskins had a gift with prose and organization, and it helped hammering his points home.
In what may be termed 'rag to riches story', they started with no school system at all, yet end up begetting universities all over the place, including that one in Oxford.If you're big into history of science, you may like this.
At least it's a classic of the field.
Just note that -- like any classic book -- there will be outdated information.
Very dry and scholarly. Didn't finish.
This book was a big disappointment. Basically, it serves as an excuse for the author to nerd out over the achievements of various 12th century people. There is very little attempt to create an overall holistic picture of what intellectual life looked like in the 12th century or why a "renaissance" occurred in this time period (versus say the 11th or 13th centuries).
Este ensayo es altamente recomendable para cualquiera que quiera meterse a investigar el mundo medieval y el inicio del renacimiento. La lectura es muy amena y no hace falta ser un conocido del tema para leerlo. Muy recomendable
Old-fashioned and dated, but interesting account of the culture of twelfth-century Europe. Focuses completely on Latin culture so the vernacular gets short shrift.
Es un libro ya superado pero sigue siendo un clásico de la historiografía y el estilo que tiene te transporta al ámbito intelectual del siglo XII. Muy, muy bueno.
Pronto, los medievalistas aceptaron como hecho que el siglo XII también experimentó un renacimiento de ese tipo, y la tesis de Haskins se convirtió en un concepto hoy plenamente aceptado en la historiografía medieval.»DICCIONARIO OXFORD DE LA EDAD MEDIA
Interesting enough but be warned--there are tons of quotes in Latin with no translation and later some French. In the middle of the book, strangely, he starts giving translations and then towards the end sometimes does and sometimes doesn't. Odd. Haskins makes a decent case for a renaissance in the 12th century. There were cultural exchanges as well as translations from other languages. It was not an age of darkness.
ES.O.TER.IC! (I got the book from my former mentor and French professor for whom the book was part of her Ph.D. studies.)But fascinating. And the language of it is delightful (written in the 1920s). Lots of "thrice"s and "thence"s and other interesting words I had to look up (which doesn't happen much to me anymore, with English anyway).
Today exactly 1 year ago I finished this book for my course, and a year later I finish it again for the same course. It's an interesting book on the 12th century and the development of universities.
Older, so it is well written and the bibliographies not cluttered with junk nobody wants to read who doesn't have to for some academic tyrant. A mostly engaging book.
The Revival of the Latin Classics5.
The Beginnings of Universities.The only problem with the book is that modern scholarship goes much further than Haskins could with his limited resources dominated by centuries of neglect.
284)Albert Shannon has an entire index dedicated to H.C. Lea and an exchange between G.G. Coulton and Herbert Thurston in his book 'The Medieval Inquisition' which puts much of Lea to rest.Perhaps Haskins should be excused for not foreseeing the futur, and the book was revolutionary, but like many revolutionary things and most things academic, TROTTC no longer makes great claims or ascertions because the great claims have not only been proven, but even found to be too moderate.
