https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/592102.In_Grandma_s_Attic
I can't even recall how many times I read this as a kid. To bring back the memories I decided to read this again so I could write a more recent review. It is very enjoyable and just the sort of book any child (maybe even boys :)) would like. As an adult, I could have used more details about the granddaughter and why she was always with her grandma, but it's not really important.The stories have a little lesson to each one. Nothing in your face. It's applicable through the lessons 'Grandma' learned. Definitely recommend!
oh so pleasant. This little book is sweet, morally upright, exciting in places and even capable of producing giggles. My 4.5 and 6.5 year olds love it as much as Betsy Tacy or Charlotte's web. When we finished it, they were desperate for me to but the next one! Charming and wholesome I enjoy sharing this with my children.
This book is similar to the Little House on the Prairie series.
A grandma tells stories from when she was little.
Usually the stories involve her getting into trouble and learning a lesson from it.
It is a charming little book.
The best part is that the chapters are short enough that very young children can enjoy listening to this book, but the stories are interesting enough that older kids will like it, too.
I believe it is published by a Christian publishing company, and there is a slight, but obvious, religious slant, along the general lines of "God answers yours prayers."
It's supposed to be a young girl who spends a lot of time at her grandmother's house and enjoys looking through the old things, like the button basket and the quilts her grandmother made.
Every chapter has a short little blurb about the young girl looking at some piece of fabric or whatnot and then her grandmother get's a far away look in her eyes and launches into the story.
I would have liked it better if it was laid out as a collection of short stories instead or just the whole thing was told from the grandmother's point of view as a child.
Really enjoyable collection of stories, great for reading aloud. Reminiscent of Little House. Short, nicely written, and funny, I laughed for pure enjoyment at least once per story. Uplifting, moralistic tales in the good sense of that word.
Arleta Richardson was actually brought up by her grandmother, but in the books she comes for extended visits and finds many objects in Grandma's attic and just around the house that provoke Grandma into telling Arleta the story surrounding the object from her own childhood.
Or Arleta and Grandma are doing something together and by asking a question or simple conversation will bring about another tale of Grandma's childhood.
Rather than telling one cohesive story the book is more of a collection of vignettes with each chapter telling a new reminiscence from Grandma's childhood.
Sorry, but has no one here read Anne of Green Gables?
Apparently the author (or her grandmother) has, because that story about the liniment cake is taken straight from it.
And I mean, it's not like Anne is some obscure book that no one has ever read.
Nice and all, but nothing more - they are very short and maybe that's OK, but I'd find them more interesting if I were to encounter them as episodes in a book that told a bigger story: Thimble Summer, Caddie Woodlawn, et al.
Maybe they are useful as quick bedtime readings.
Grandma’s Attic series is a fun, enjoyable series that you will treasure.
The first book in this series is In Grandma’s Attic.
I read this book and More Stories from Grandma’s Attic.
I liked hearing about how when Mabel was a little girl, just as much as Arleta did.
All the mischief that Mabel got into was entertaining to read.
Besides Mabel, it was fun to get to know the rest of the family…Pa, Ma, and her two brothers, Rueben and Roy. There were so many amusing stories that I can not pick just one as my favorite.
I liked this book because grandma told stories about her childhood, and how she got in trouble, and I liked when the little girl ask her grandma a lot of questions! When I get to America I think I'm going to ask my grandma and grandpa about their childhood. I remember when my mom was reading this book to me when I was little. But now I'm old enough to read this book by myself!!!
This book was under a selection of books that were comparable to the Little House books. Apart from the era that the stories are told in, this is nothing like little house. It's a series of unimaginative and dry monologues, as told by the grandmother. I don't see how this book could ever hold a child's attention, let alone anyone else. A real disappointment.
I loved these books as a child. This one showed up on my son's homeschooling book list, so now I get to enjoy it all over again. Great old timey stories. Short chapters, so my 3 year old will sit through them too.
Oh my word, I loved these books as a child. As I grew older I loved reading the ones where she grows from a teenager to an adult. Very moral, Christian books. But also funny, sweet, and very entertaining as a child!
So far i think it's a good book to read even though it wasn't a mystery book. (i love mystery books)it;s so cool that the Grand ma in the book can remember all those storys!
Jacob really enjoyed this book.
What a sweet and loving book. I had not heard of this series before. Each chapter is one of grandma's stories from her childhood. Each story had a small message and it was filled with love.
WORLD comments here.
Most of the stories contain morals.There are a few illustrations included in the book that help to bring alive some parts of the stories.The book relates tales from a time long before modern technology, before cars, telephones, computers; before many of the things we take for granted today were even in existence, at least in the small town where Arleta’s grandmother grew up.
There is a little girl — presumably the author — who either lives with her grandma or spends a great deal of time there.
Something along the lines of “that is why you should never…” Once the stories get beyond that they are better.If you are easily offended by early American Christian beliefs then this probably isn’t a book for you.
The author wrote about her grandma who grew up in the late 1800’s to early 1900’s and her belief system was pretty typical of that time.That said, the writing is kind of weak.
I loved this series back then, and I saved the original set for my daughters to read someday.
Not only are they fun stories that are easy to read, short, and to the point, but they also teach about history, about life when their grandma was a little girl asking questions about things she found in her grandmother’s attic.
If you are looking for something for your tweener girl to read, then definitely pick up a copy of the books in Grandma’s Attic Series.
This is a wholesome little book that I would give 3 1/2 stars.
The fascination of the granddaughter with stories from Grandma's youth encourages young people to seek out similar stories from their own grandparents, while portraying a healthy interaction with older people.
This value, and respect, is important to encourage in young people, and this work definitely makes a significant contribution.The stories are simple and whimsical without being foolish.Weaknesses: There is a strong female perspective, even an absence of male perspective or characters.
Reading, "In Grandmas Attic" by Arleta Richardson, really had me going back to when I was young and 
A young girl delights in her grandmother’s stories of days gone by, sparked by keepsakes and simple questions, Grandma shares marvelous stories of mischief , discovery, and laughter, such as the time she accidentally lost the family buggy.Part of the bestselling Grandma’s Attic series, these charming tales—updated with delightful new illustrations—will whisk you away to another time and place.
Find yourself transported to the 1800's, cry and mostly laugh with O'Dell's.I've read these to my Grandson when he was younger...he is now 13, and he still talks about them.There are great lessons for all in these books.
In this first book there is a lot of stories about Pride.
Wait until you read about Mable and Sarah Jane in their hoops!
I would have given this book 3 stars, because the writing is quite simple and the stories are a little too moralistic for my taste--but my daughter LOVES this book and all the sequels, too.
The short chapters made good bedtime reading when my daughter was around 8 years old, and several years later she still asked me to read them to her when she was sick and in need of something soothing.
Grandmother was a bit of a tom-boy in her youth and most of her adventures take place either at her school or on the farm where she was raised.
The Grandma’s Attic Series by the late Arleta Richardson is a compilation of stories from a simpler time long ago that children of all ages will enjoy.
Many of the stories have a moral to them and readers are invited to remember with Arleta, her favorite times of exploring Grandma’s old house and life on the farm in Michigan.The way these are written and illustrated reminded me of the Little House on the Prairie books, which I loved as a child.
The black and white illustrations add to the charm of these books and the character of the stories.
These are some of the most amazing stories for children [adults].
I've read these to my Grandson when he was younger...he is now 13, and he still talks about them.
There are great lessons for all in these books.
In this first book there is a lot of stories about Pride.
Wait until you read about Mable and Sarah Jane in their hoops!
Through out the book you can see the love of the Lord, and how the family relies on His Word.
Disclosure of Material Connection: I received this book free from of B & B Media Group.
I recently finished the first book in the Grandma's Attic Series, and it was charming.
They may have been intended for children to read, but really, they are perfect for any age.Wholesome and sweet, the author recalls being a child who asked questions about her grandmother's own childhood as they quilted, cooked, cleaned, and played with buttons together.Christian values shine through, and the family openly praises the Lord.
Funny, my own childhood memories are much the same way.I will be reading these stories to my own children in the near future and plan to look for the other books in the series.
The stories that Grandma (Mable O'Dell) tells Arleta (her grand-daughter) are real-life stories and experiences from when she was a young girl, growing up on a farm with her two brothers, Ma, and Pa, the many things she did with her close friend Sarah Jane Clarkson, and what she learned.
It is appropriate and good for all ages, I highly suggest you to read it!Enjoy the stories, the life-lessons, and the laughter!
I was surprised when I found out that the stories are all true accounts of the author’s grandmother’s life on a farm.
The cute and crazy things Grandmother Mabel did as a child will make you laugh and then ponder the biblical moral placed in each story.
The books are wonderfully written by Arleta Richardson who retells the stories in a easy-to-understand style which is great for all ages to grasp.
Each chapter is short, so it’s great for a quick bedtime story or something fun to read in between daily tasks.
This was a really nice getaway from other books I read.
I laughed, cried, and enjoyed each heartwarming story as I read them.
And of course I was sad realizing just as with my Grandma, life goes on after they are gone, and we miss them so much.
The author had a special relationship with her grandma that she always remembered.
I recommend this book to anyway wanting a good fun getaway from life as it is.The book was given to me by the publisher through B&B Media Group.
I appreciate being able to read and review this book for them.
While these books are reprints of books that were orginally printed back in the 1974, I somehow missed them growing up, but I am so glad that I had the chance to read them now.
I consider them timeless classics that will certainly appeal to many, and should be on every little girls bookshelf.
The illustrations peppered throughout the book are cute and will capture the imagination of the young reader.These books would make a perfect gift for young readers, but I think anyone who likes to reminisce about the "Good Old Days" will certainly enjoy these books.
