https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80244.Bernice_Bobs_Her_Hair
Bernice vs Marjorie. Cousin vs cousin. Polite and unassuming Bernice is visiting her narcissistic and snobbish cousin Marjorie. When jealously arises over the affections of a certain young man, a battle of wits and wills ensues and reaches a conclusion that is both surprising and satisfying.This very entertaining short story was first published in 1920 in the Saturday Evening Post. Set in the roaring twenties, but this one has a different feel than other Fitzgerald short stories that I've read.4 stars.
"Oh, my Lord!" cried Marjorie in desperation. "You little nut! Girls like you are responsible for all the tiresome colorless marraiges; all those ghastly ineffiencies that pass as feminine qualities. what a blow it must be when a man with imagination marries the beautiful bundle of clothes that he's been building ideals round, and finds that she's just a weak, whining, cowardly mass of affectations!" I read F. Scott's Fitzgerald's short story "Bernice Bobs Her Hair" in high school. I loved it!
Scott's Fitzgerald's short story "Bernice Bobs Her Hair" in high school.
After reading it again twenty plus years later - the angst, Marjorie, and Bernice - I still love this short story set in the Roaring Twenties.
The characters live in upper crust society and they can be perceived as shallow people, but Bernice is the underdog in the story.
I'm not too sure about Fitzgerald's characterization of Marjorie.
It makes me wonder how much Fitzgerald is represented in Majorie.
Despite my little issue, this short story, which was first posted in The Saturday Evening Post in 1920, is a classic!Recommended Quick Read!
F. Scott Fitzgerald picked the weakest plots and settings which many who loved to have grand eternal questions spicing up their novels and stories would easily find mundane or of no interest or concern to them.
Yet he told the story nevertheless and I saw how pristine his prose was and so five stars for "The Great Gatsby" from me.What do I care about two young Ivy Leaguers, rich like most Fitzgerald characters, obsessed with looking better, being the belle of the ball, and being with cute boys?
And yet, five stars also for this short story.
My first Fitzgerald short story and I really enjoyed it. Fitting for the times, a story about the pitfalls of popularity and the hazard of getting what you wish for as well as the sweet taste of revenge.
So perfectly real.
AudioBook Review:Stars: Overall: 5 Narration: 5 Story: 4I am admittedly not a huge fan of Fitzgerald’s work, although I can and do appreciate his sharp wit that informs observations and commentary about behavior and motivations.
I cannot help but think that his advice did contain some of the lesson that is visited on both cousins at the end, and presenting a story with such a clever conclusion, slightly devious and wholly appropriate for the character of Bernice was satisfying.
This is one of the stories that become the definition of a classic short: the setting is nearly a century prior, but the characters and people are real and easy to relate to with a modern eye.
As good as expected, did not think it would deal with anything like this, I had more social justice female stuff because of bobbing the hair etc, but the ending was great, well deserved, and I hope Bernice learns to love her hair.
I have arranged my thoughts into a haiku:"In high class combat, The cattiness of young girlsHolds few loyalties."
Para cunhar a sua irreverência, Bernice afirma que um dia vai cortar o cabelo curto e convida quem quiser a testemunhar o acontecimento… Por maldade, e certa de que o resultado será tão chocante que todos perderão imediatamente o interesse na prima, Marjorie desafia Bernice a cumprir de uma vez por todas a ameaça de cortar o cabelo.
Naturalmente tímida e sossegada, Bernice transforma-se num completo oposto, comprometendo a sua personalidade, para poder encaixar no grupo da prima e ser olhada com admiração por pessoas em quem reconhece traços de crueldade e futilidade.
A satisfying ending after an uncertain beginning -- a boring girl visiting her cousin makes changes in herself in order to become popular. Though not such a great premise, there are some good tips about being a better conversationalist and focusing on the shyer members of the opposite sex.
I loved this short story! Definitely check it out if you haven't tried anything by F. Scott Fitzgerald, yet.

Classic F. Scott Flappers tale with a "Gotcha B** moment at the end. Sorry for the explicative in the description but there was no other way to explain it because that is Exactly what I laughed and said at the end. F. Scott writes "the flapper" and the snobbish rich well. That is exactly who we encounter in this short story.  Bernice Bobs Her Hair.   This is a story about two cousins. It's a bit of the country mouse vs city mouse in theory. Marjorie is everything city. She dresses fashionably.
And then, there is Bernice her shy, quiet, country cousin who comes to stay once a year.
Bernice, is the polar opposite of her cousin Marjorie.
At the social events out of pity Marjorie begs her hangers on to entertain Bernice for some time because she finds her old fashioned quiet womanly ways pitiful.
Eventually what started as helping her simple cousin, turned into a popularity contest with Marjorie's place being questioned.
Marjorie sets out to fix her interloping cousin.
I do recommend it to anyone who enjoys this author or likes the classics.
Think of all the book, movies, and TV shows that are drama-filled (Pretty Little Liars, The Clique Series for example.) It is interesting to look at the social changes in this book, bobbed hair was seen as wild, and morally lacking, which is funny because now the haircut is seen as very conservative, classy yet boring.
This is something teachers can discuss, but mostly I think the theme of trying to change yourself to fit in is something teachers can use, I can’t think of any middle school-er who would not relate.
A story about a wallflower hopelessly behind the times until her popular cousin Marjorie gives her a makeover.
After realizing her cousin's selfish and jealous motives, Bernice takes her first REAL step as an independent woman.
And throws them on the boytoy's doorstep.Yes, the real "lesson" here is "don't ever let anyone push you around".
Bernice was indeed hopelessly behind the times when she still bought into the Good Woman guidelines of their mothers' younger years.
But by letting Marjorie push her into getting a trendy makeover, she's not actually liberating herself.
Bernice Bobs Her Hair was a fun short story, it was quick and easy to read.
This poor girl just wanted to be accepted by her cousin and her friends.
I could not help but smile when Bernice chops her cousin's hair off in her sleep.
I also really enjoyed hearing how bobbing your hair was very controversial and drastic in this time period, especially for a reserved girl like Bernice.
I like to think after Bernice's conflicts with her cousin, that she became more confident and feisty, owning her new hair-do (and not tolerating these crazy girls).
Wow, this short story surprised me. I enjoyed it munch more than any novel I've read by him. I'm glad I gave his short stories a chance, I'll probably read more (though I think I'm finally calling it on his novels).
"People over forty can seldom be permanently convinced of anything. At eighteen our convictions are hills from which we look; at forty-five they are caves in which we hide."That's the kind of insight you get from a 48-page book about a girl who bobs her hair. That's F. Scott Fitzgerald.
3.5 There were some shocking and fun parts in this short- don't want to give anything away.
Hair is important, and revenge is sweet. (Quick, one-hour audiobook.)
Mouwahahaha.
This wasn't something I would ever read again. It was off to a slow start and it remained boring throughout. I only read it because it was required for my literature class.
But it's kind of strange because, there seems to be an appreciation for black culture, yet still a racism that was acceptable in Fitzgerald's time.One of the more racist of these stories and surprisingly almost the most endearing is The Offshore Pirate.The basic set up is: smart, spoiled, beautiful rich girl on a yatch on the way to meeting the rich boy that she will marry in Palm Beach Florida gets kidnapped by a former white Jazz muscian and his six african american bandmates.
A truly charming series of short stories.
Fitzgerald's sparkling prose and wit, combined with his rare talent of characterizing petty, flawed, filthy-rich, relatable human beings of the Jazz Age, constantly kept me up at night reading.
But with Fitzgerald, everything was fun and smart and captivating.
I've completely fallen in love with him and am going to bob my hair and become a flapper Right Now(Other than the titular short story, I also loved Magnetism and The Baby Party which are about the brittle personal life of a Hollywood screen actor and a Baby Party that ends in a fistfight, respectively.)
A dark story about the deliberate superficiality and solipsism of Jazz Age youth, in which a sweet young girl from the South is horribly used and manipulated by her vain, selfish, sociopathic, popular cousin while on vacation. If anyone ever needed proof that Fitzgerald despised his generation, it can be found right here.
Liked this MUCH better than "The Great Gatsby." Listened to the audiobook on the Oodles Books app. The narrator was "Meh."
marjorie deserved it !!!
The story overall was not outstanding but the ending was great. Listened to through Audible channels.
Since it was a short story I will give it a short review!"That was exactly what I wanted her to do"moment!Loved the ending!
Audio book - I was expecting a better ending, didn't get that sense of morality at all.
