https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/232094.In_the_Heat_of_the_Night
He's on his way home after visiting his mother.The chief calls his counterpart in Pasadena and discovers that Tibbs is not only a police officer, but a skilled homicide investigator.
The notion that he might accept help from a black man is clearly anathema to Gillespie, but he has no idea how to solve this crime on his own and, given the high profile of the victim, Gillespie knows that if the murder is not solved he will most likely be out of a job.
Additionally, this short, classic detective book lead Ball to write a series of cases featuring lead homicide investigator Virgil Tibbs.
Because rural Wells, South Carolina's police force is largely inexperienced, the wealthy friends and family of victim Maestro Enrico Mantoli insist that Tibbs stay and assist Wood and Gillepsie in solving the case.
From the outset, it is obvious that Tibbs is a far superior cop than Wood or Gillepsie yet he is regarded as a lesser individual because of the color of his skin.
He arrests Virgil Tibbs at the train station because he's a black man with a wallet full of cash.
The mayor and police chief accept the offer, figuring that Virgil can be the scapegoat if the crime is not solved.Virgil is smart and educated, in contrast to the poorly trained officers in the small South Carolina town.
Wells is segregated with special benches at the train station for blacks.
Virgil wins the respect of the police chief, but Bill does not offer him a handshake as he drops him off at the train station.
He goes a little overboard in drawing the distinctions between the Southern characters and Virgil Tibbs, but he has an important point to make and he makes it If you are ever doubting that race relations have made enormous progress in the last 50 years, read this book and feel the knot in your stomach when Mr. Tibbs comes into a diner and is denied a glass of milk.
It is difficult to even imagine people actually feeling this way and yet so many did.
To my mind the Virgil Tibbs in the novel didn't have quite the same presence or "weight" of Sidney Poitier in the movie.
Virgil Tibbs in the novel seemed to be a more subdued presence, I was expecting more fire from his character.Have wanted to read this novel for ages and have to admit being a shade disappointed because I had such high expectations.
It is well written and the mystery component well delivered but it is the finely wrought characterisation between the amateur Chief of Police Gillespie and the professional Virgil Tibbs that draws the reader in.
The 1967 film version of In The Heat Of The Night has long been a favourite of mine.
There are noticeable differences between the book & the film, but both are equally compelling stories.John Ball's 1967 novel starts brilliantly & never lets up.
It's not only a fine crime story, it says a lot about bigotry & racism in America in the 1960s.
At only 158 pages it shows that you don't need to write a long novel to write a great one.I was pleasantly surprised to see that Ball had written further novels featuring detective Virgil Tibbs, so my next step is to track some of those down.
Tolle Geschichte über Rassendiskriminierung (und wie!), bei der der eigentliche Mordfall fast in den Hintergrund gerät.
A tak jsem si řekl, že spojím příjemné s užitečným (tedy něco jako když vysáváte nahej a náhle se dlouze zadíváte na násadu vysavače).Kniha začíná vraždou a pak už se to valí z kopce.
A ne jen tak ledajakej, protože Viržil je něco jako černej Colombo.
Prostě blbí bílí policajti choděj po stanici, zatímco Blackombo vždycky dorazí a na závěr řekne něco ve smyslu: "No dobře hoši, ale všimli jste si, že ten člověk je levák?" BOOM.
Rasová segregace je v knize popsána dost výrazně, ale někdy až tak moc výrazně, že mě to vyloženě otravovalo.
Synopsis/blurb.........John Ball's 1965 mystery In the Heat of the Night tells the story of a black police officer named Virgil Tibbs who happens to be passing through a southern town at a particularly inauspicious moment.
Ball wrote other books that featured the hero of In the Heat of the Night, detective Virgil Tibbs, including The Cool Cottontail(1966), and Johnny Get Your Gun(1969).
Within the space of a couple of hundred pages, Ball dismantles that notion with an intelligent murder mystery that gives us a cool, capable, black lead in Virgil Tibbs.
In the Heat of the Night is the story of Virgil Tibbs, a black homicide detective from California asked to investigate a murder in the deep South.
Tibbs is smart and tightly self-controlled.
Woods is especially interesting as the conscientious officer seeking to do the right and honorable thing, struggling with Tibbs as his role model.
There’s a dignity to these characters and the bonds that form over the course of the book make this an absorbing character study.And if you haven’t seen the 1967 movie starring Sidney Poitier and Rod Steiger, see it.
You won’t be disappointed.3.5 stars, rounded up
(A slightly edited review, on this, my second and most recent read.) We all know the story, even if we never read the book, having seen the movie.
In fact, it was hard to read the book without seeing the actors.
Ball's treatment of the racial tensions is tremendous, of course.
That is the reason to read the book.
The mystery itself is fine, as well, but not really the point.
In addition to dealing with race in the south at the time he wrote, what Ball does is finely illustrate the flexibility of the mystery genre, which he uses so well.
A great mystery. Wonderful description. A revealing look at the 1960s south. It reads almost like a blend of Harper Lee and Conan Doyle.
Obviously a book that broke barriers.I read it out of curiosity, having just re-watched the movie.
In the book, Virgil Tibbs is more cerebral, less fiery.
Interesting as historical artifact.In the several reviews of the several editions listed on Goodreads, the aggregate ratings run from 2.5 to 4.
Except for the names and general relationships, the book and the movie tell entirely different stories.
One thing reading the book does -- it reveals just how much the film was intended to be "socially significant" and political.
Virgil Tibbs is picked up at a railway station in a small southern town by a local police-officer, following the murder of a visiting orchestra conductor.
When it emerges Tibbs is a Homicide detective on his way home to Pasadena after visiting his mother, an inexperienced Sheriff Gillespie reluctantly enlists Tibbs help to solve the murder.
Tibbs is up against deep seated racial & social prejudice, stymied at every turn, not only by the town's residents but by the police officers who are supposed to be helping him, not the least, Gillespie himself.
I grew up in the 60's & remember it as a time of great social, political & cultural upheaval.
In The Heat of the Night is not the kind of book that I would have ever considered picking up for my own casual reading pile.
However, when this book was introduced to me as assigned reading for a Grade 9 English novel study I was trilled.
This is the first book assigned to me that I have truly enjoyed reading.
Either way, as a mystery and as a reading assignment, In the Heat of the Night kept things interesting.
They call me Mister Tibbs!  In the movie, that line is not only unforgettable, it sums up the entire movie. In the book...it is thrown away. It doesn't even come at the end of a chapter. That being said, the book is nothing to be taken lightly. Book Virgil isn't as defiant as Movie Virgil, but the way he walks the tightrope between accepted and unaccepted behavior is riveting. Book Sheriff is less overbearing and more vulnerable than Movie Sheriff, and this can, at times, be a good thing.Best o
In the book...it is thrown away.
That being said, the book is nothing to be taken lightly.
Book Virgil isn't as defiant as Movie Virgil, but the way he walks the tightrope between accepted and unaccepted behavior is riveting.
Book Sheriff is less overbearing and more vulnerable than Movie Sheriff, and this can, at times, be a good thing.Best of all, though is Sam Woods, the officer who found the body.
Movie Sam is a bumbling parody of Barney Fife.
Book Sam is one of, if not the most important character.
The book is worth the read just for him.
IN THE HEAT OF THE NIGHT by John BallI loved this book.
Not only did I very much enjoy the character of Virgil Tibbs - he really makes this story shine, but the entire suspense of the crime was awesome.
It kept my interest and had me intrigued from cover to cover trying to guess the outcome; it did not fail to impress.
This book was definitely an enjoyable read, it's short but it packs a punch.
:)"In a little while the daylight would come and when it did the mystery of the night would evaporate."Overall Opinion: ★★★★★~KaylaMy Blog
I saw the 1967 movie starring Sydney Poitier and Rod Steiger some time ago, but the movie is, IIRC, pretty faithful to the novel.
I enjoyed reading it.
Some of the racial prejudice seen in the small North Carolina city of Wells may seem a little dated, but I can remember it only too well.
Virgil Tibbs a homicide cop who hails from Pasadena, CA, reminds me of Easy Rawlins also from CA.
The identity of the killer had me fooled, so the mystery part is also solid.
A fast read of a short novel, it might be the ticket for a couple of nights entertainment.
A classic, this is my second reading. I think of it as a metaphor for the changing attitudes of this country on race. Two characters over the course of the book come to reflect on their views and begin to change, one more so, just from working with the black Virgil Tibbs. That's all it takes, being around folks enough one starts to realize there is more similarity than difference.
An excellent detective story as well as the social and racial criticism
Virgil Tibbs will go down in history as one of literature's most likable detectives.
But it is so much more than that as it speaks to an era in America's history of when blacks and whites just did not mix and especially down South.
Mind you there is probably a lot in this book that is still very relevant today.
I thoroughly enjoyed this read and mostly liked all the characters.
I especially enjoyed watching Virgil test the boundaries and the results of his mild but forceful personality.
This was as much a book about human relationships as it was a suspenseful whodunnit.
Virgil Tibbs is a wonderful character. The Afro-American homicide detective passenger passing through the racially bigoted town of Wells. The new Chief of police has a homicide occur. Sam Woods another policeman finds the body and detains Tibbs. They find out he is a detectives and reluctantly use him to help solve the case. The author has captured the bigotry well and Tibbs is a methodical and observant detective. A far fetched love story but aside from that a good story. I have gone to the local library and got out the DVD movie. Looking forward to watching it.
My third selection from the Modern Classics display at the library - written in 1965 the endemic and embedded discrimination against black people in the South is brought out by the accomplished black detective Virgil Tibbs. I had not realised there were more Tibbs books, I will seek them out.
The film has surpassed the novel, which is a shame. The book is a tight story with neither wasted scenes nor excessive misdirection, and the introduction by Ridley in this edition is both informative and explanatory without being excessively academic.
Little did the officers of Wells know that Tibbs would soon be their greatest lead in tracking down the murderer and solving little pieces of other potential crimes along the way.There is blatant racism present in the novel, but the characterization of Gillespie, Wood, and others shows that even those who seem the most prejudiced can often find ways to relate to those they claim to hate.
Tibbs, for his part, tries to remain as impartial and unprejudiced as possible, but that is not always the easiest, especially when he is threatened and told to leave town before he meets his own untimely demise.The book is a nice precursor into the movie and television versions of 'In the Heat of the Night,' based on this very novel.
Looking at this novel from a big picture standpoint, In the Heat of the Night seems to be much less about a murder investigation and mystery, much more about a character who must deal with prejudice and racial unrest in Wells, South Carolina.
Although some aspects of the prejudice theme are handled in a heavy handed, ham-fisted way, I think Ball makes it a bit over the top to make a statement about racial injustice in a general sense, speaking to the time period and setting.
This book was quite different from the film starring Sidney Poitier and Rod Steiger.
For starters, the size of the two men (Virgil Tibbs and Chief Bill Gillespie) is reversed.
Steiger was around 5'10" but Gillespie is 6'4" in the book.
Poitier is 6'3" or so, but Virgil Tibbs is 5'9".
Though he hates racism, he understands that any eruption on his part will not help him, nor advance the cause of minorities in Wells, South Carolina.
Minor character Endicott is not a racist as in the film, but is the one who demands that Tibbs be kept on.
Unsurprisingly, the story focuses as much on the drama between Tibbs and Gillespie and the racist context as it does on the murder mystery itself.
It’s interesting to me that Tibbs is a lot more calm and soft-spoken in print than he was portrayed in the film by Sidney Poitier – so much so that he almost seems like a secondary character to Gillespie, who spends much of the book struggling with the idea that a black man is more educated and experienced than he is.
Good stuff. Glad in this case that I didn't see the movie first, although Mr. Tibbs is definitely Sydney Poitier in my head. Wonderful story about the racism of the South.Excellent book. Recommended.
Great book and great movie, do not miss either.
