https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/94079.The_Art_of_Eating
How does that not relate to every single person in the world.I first read this collection after returning from living several months in Borneo, where I finally built up the motivation to change my career path and continue my schooling overseas in England.
Back home, I found the book on my mother's bookshelves and set about reading it, and it only furthered my determination to do what I needed to do abroad.Five years later, having travelled to Morocco, Spain, South Africa, Australia, New Zealand, back to Borneo, all in the name of my studies, and with my degree in hand, I kept this book with me.
even if you're not a foodie, this is a really wonderfull book. no one writes about food like MFK Fisher and no one writes about food better than MFK Fisher. it brings tears to my eyes. i mean, fuck Anthony Bourdin and Kitchen Confidential (even though i enjoyed it) because MFK was writing about offal and wolves long before Anthony Bourdin decided to start wearing Dead Boys tee shirts and taping television shows where he tries absinthe.
MFK Fisher is just so great - I'm humbled by the rightness of her writing and it sounds utterly corny to say that this is a book about love, life, and dignity.
The quiet, powerful protest of the center book, "How to Cook a Wolf", was so touching to me - how to remain human in the face of an increasingly inhuman world.
I'm just finishing "The Gastronomical Me" and it's both heartbreaking and fierce - a hard look at what we do for love that travels from her days as an innocent newlywed in Dijon to the impending war and exile from her beautiful Swiss home.
Food writing has been seriously in vogue since Michael Pollan, but with the recent influx of it that's surfaced around Nora Ephron's impossibly self-satisfied new movie, you can't even open a magazine without stumbling across some article written by any of several dozen rich, thin Manhattanites.
M.F.K. Fisher was writing - lusciously, wryly and humbly - about eating, itself, decades before the word 'organic' implied anything but carbon compound.
She is disdainful of trends (although it's fascinating to read of some of them: "fillets of whiting with sherry; calf's head a la Terrapin; aspic of tunny, roast Guinea fowl, apricots in jelly, velvet cream, anchovies Zadioff..."), but she isn't self-righteous.
This book is comprised of essays largely un-connected to each other.
This allows the book to spend a year on a table near where you often sit, so that every week or so you can pick it up and follow Ms. Fisher to France, or California, or out to sea.
But she does so in such a way that you learn what she's been learning--by sharing in her series of insights into herself, and relationships then humanity at large.
Also, this book will light a fire under your relationship with your kitchen.
This book melted the ice away.
Listen to this and tell me you don't want to read these essays: "People ask me: Why do you write about food, adn eating and drinking? ...The easiest answer is to say that, like most other humans, I am hungry. But there is more than that. It seems to me that our three basic needs, for food and security and love, are so mixed and mingled and entwined that we cannot straightly think of one without the other."
MFK Fisher is always such a pleasure! Her writing is frank, surprising and full of life. I had read The Gastronomical Me before, but got a kick out of Serve It Forth and the Alphabet for Gourmets. Can't even imagine what it would have been like to attend one of her dinner parties!
Having known for years I should not be putting off reading M.F.K. Fisher on the grounds that being a "food writer" was somehow intellectually provincial, I probably nonetheless did just that.
There is also probably no great insight to be gained from putting her in the context of what I have been reading lately, but I have been particularly enjoying the contrast between her unabashedly (and joyously) literary style and the coolly persuasive journalistic élan of Michael Pollan or Marion Nestle's succinct and pragmatic summaries of nutritional biochemistry.
I found this book to be 90% insufferable, 10% wonderful and unlike anything else I've ever read.
This book is kind of old, so a lot of the insufferable-ness is just how old fashioned the writing style is.
But a lot of the author's attitudes were also pretty obnoxious - her description of nuoc mam was downright racist.
While I'm sure her palette is a million times more sophisticated than mine, there are some things that she doesn't appreciate which are perfectly delicious.
This book is a compilation of several books that were originally published separately.
I recommend just reading "How to Cook a Wolf."
Fisher's writing is best when she's personal, and even the tactile squalor of a kitchen is sexy in her hands.
Favorite passage:There are only three things I need, to make my kitchen a pleasant one as long as it is clean.
First, I need space enough to get a good simple meal for six people.
More of either would be wasteful as well as dangerously dull.Then, I need a window or two, for clear air and a sight of things growing.
Most of all, I need to be let alone.
I need peace.From there--from there, on the sill of my wide window, the plan is yours.
Second, the idea to appreciate simple pleasures--specific tastes, a nice warm afternoon with people you love, eating and drinking whatever you come upon in another place and doing as the Romans do.
That one is such a nice period piece, too, with its sense of WAR in the background, but her strange unwillingness to talk about it directly.
And some of it, the most irritating part to me, is that she thinks she's so open-minded and that she does people a favor by eating their shitty food and being good company around them.
I was excited for another opportunity to delve into her delicious wit and revisit "How to Cook a Wolf." This book of frugality (and common sense) during the lean years of WWII is pertinent today and many of her tips and ideas are echoed by locavores and modern chefs.Her wry sense of humor, and dare I say snarkiness, is endearing and I started thinking about other food professionals I love with the same dry wit.Segue alert:I can imagine Anthony Bourdain interviewing Fisher on one of his television shows.
Sure, I enjoy food, but not to the extent that I need to to 'get' this book - I don't have the interest/passion.
Plus I would like to see her research cited.Consider the Oyster ***:Although I did skim through some the recipes (not the cracker one though I have been meaning to make crackers, and perhaps this winter I will), I enjoyed her writing and her personality much better in this one.How to Cook a Wolf ***When you're broke, how do you eat well.
I understand needing a little extra something when one is struggling, but she seemed to want folks to drink wine with nearly every meal.
And again, she sure did drink a bunch.An Alphabet for Gourmets***Quite enjoyed this part, esp.
There is a blurb on the back cover from Julia Child, in which she quotes Fisher: "When I write about hunger, I am really writing about love and the hunger for it, and warmth, and the love of it...and then the warmth and richness and fine reality of hunger satisfied."Fisher is just that good a writer, able to weave the tendrils of real, emotional, human life into a subject that can be pretentious or ostentatious in the wrong hands.Five of five stars is not enough for The Art of Eating, so given there are five books in it, I will multiply 5 x 5 and give it a gluttonous 25 out of 5 stars.
M.F.K. Fisher is a skilled writer, but the tone of her writing seems a little alien to today's point of view on nutrition and cooking.
It would be a mistake to view her with the eyes of today, but one cannot avoid feeling a vague malaise at the descriptions of tumblers of marc and ice-cold martinis.
Nonetheless, since Fisher maintained a glamorous appearance, an active love-life and a slim silhouette, we cannot judge her ill on results.
She also had a long and interesting life, tasting all the joys that food, travel and love provide.
It's odd to feel that Julia Childs has aged better, though both share a similar point of view.
The real creator of the genre, MFK Fisher describes each dish, meal, shopping experience, etc. with just enough flourish to make your mouth water. Her writing is economical, but rich in style and vocabulary. There are a lot of essays, and I've taken my time reading them between and during other reads. I highly recommend it to anyone who is interested in food in general, or even just great writing. This is definitely great for foodies, but will be interesting and enjoyable for so many others.
The grand dame of food writing. In Gastronomical Me, you get to meet the young Mary Frances Kennedy and learn about her childhood and her first culinary awakenings. In Serve it Forth, you learn of the history of eating from ancient times to the present, interspersed with the author's own revelations. A celebration of life, if ever there was one. Also contains Consider the Oyster, How to Cook a Wolf, and An Alphabet of Gourmets. Warm, witty, and delightful.
I only stumbled over this volume by happenstance, and cannot believe I have not read her before. This contains several volumes of her work, and I peeled through all of them, one after the other, in a haze of delight. She is funny and wise and clear-sighted, full of insights about a world that has now fled. Every foodie should read this.
M.F.K. Fisher was one of the best writers of her time. It is just my good luck that she wrote about food which is one of my favorite topics to read about. Her quick wit, powers of observation, common sense, and wonderful prose make any of her books worthwhile. This collection is simply delightful and belongs on any food lover's shelf.
Maybe at one time this book resonated, but most of it is very dated. The recipes are from WWII and the experiences are well-described, but seem like something out of a 1950s musical. The essays hop around, so with no narrative to keep the reader engaged, it reminds me of reading random articles on microfiche from old magazines.
This book is lovely.M.F.K. Fisher writes about food and eating in such a wonderful, approachable, delighted way -- it's great to read food writing written by someone whose first tenant so clearly is: I LOVE FOOD.
A compendium of Fisher's writings, this book - with its eloquent language and many a digression - is less about the recipes than the accompanying musings. Her tales of living in France make me want to spend more time there and her A to Z: An alphabet for gourmets are little gems of writing.
To sum up: I LOVE this book. Food writing of any kind is always a favorite of mine, and Fisher is the master. This collection includes 5 of her books (complete) and is fun to flip through, browse, or read cover to cover. It does always make me hungry, though...
A compendium of several of her books and essays. MFK Fisher's writing rises far beyond her subject. Yes she writes about food, but food is life so she is writing about life. By the middle of this book, I feel as if she is whispering in my ear. She had a unique literay voice.
Read this juicy classic 15 years ago - a must read for the up and coming foodie.
50 years of food essays in 5 wonderful books. This anniversary edition was long, and so great that I had to return my copy to the library and purchase one for my home enjoyment.
FABULOUS. I could read her prose forever. It's also interesting to see how much food hasn't changed, if you ignore the industrial pap category.
MFK Fisher's writing about food is beautiful and clever, even if some of the jokes were dated and the hints lost on someone born 30 years after the last book was published.
It was just like Alan Bennet said in the History Boys, "The best moments in reading are when you come across something – a thought, a feeling, a way of looking at things – which you had thought special and particular to you.
Much of this book will not be read again, but I can easily see myself revisiting Gastronomical Me again and again and reliving again and again the magic that MFK Fisher creates when she talks of her life with food.
This tome contains 5 separate books of short stories, making my over 1 month reading time seem not so bad.
These five books cover a lot of the same territory but with varying styles.Serve it Forth was an incredible way to start, containing my favorite short story of the entire collection "Borderlands".
She discusses some intense personal situations, some racy ones, and altogether creates an incredible book that I would say is by far the best I read here.An Alphabet for Gourmets was a bit of a tedious alphabet which went over many of the same concepts and stories of the first 4 books.
I guess it's great that a bunch of other people are interested in MFKF)."The Art of Eating" is a super thick volume containing five of MFKF's early books (written in the 1940s), and she writes about food in a voice that is rather unexpected for a woman of the time, and by that I mean, she's feisty!
If, like me, you short on time and can't make it through the entire volume in one go, I highly recommend starting with "How to Eat a Wolf," first published in 1942, where MFKF gives advice to housewives on how to cook, eat, and live economically.
