https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10218.Trade_Wind
Part of this book is her journey toward self-awareness, but it takes a good long while for her to get there.Unless you love the (seriously) bad boys and the anti-heroes, Rory is even more difficult to accept than Hero.
Things come to a head eventually with a scene that's a deal-breaker for many readers (serious spoilers here): (view spoiler)[Rory kidnaps and deliberately rapes Hero.
The question is, after this happens, and given Rory Frost's character in general, can you bring yourself to accept that the two eventually fall in love?
Trade Wind is, bar none, my favorite book...period.I first read it when I was 16 years old, and now I'm 53.
Kaye's writing is both lyrical and strong; painting word pictures, expressing the emotions of the characters and triggering an emotional response in the reader.
The romance is secondary to the story, but wow, what a romance Kaye delivers.
It appears to be the "tipping point" why some readers rate Trade Wind with 1-2 stars.
For myself, I think the action is justified within the context of the plotline and the motivation of the lead male character, and personally didn't have a problem with it as it pertains to this story.
How could it not, when hurricanes at sea are followed by journeys on pirate ships, sea battles against slave traders, harem visits and plots to overthrow the sultan of the land, bloody revolutions and hidden treasures worthy of the Arabian Tales, daring prison escapes and merciless plague, elopements and kidnappings (view spoiler)[ and an uncomfortable high quota of good old-fashioned bodice-ripping, also known as statutory rape  (hide spoiler)] and betrayals and over all the constantly blowing winds?At the centre of all tis turmoil is an American young lady, an orphan heiress Boston riding on an unusually moral high horse, driven to do good for the world, whether the world wants it or not: "Good?
However, another ship captained by the infamous slave trader Rory Frost pulls up their rigging out of the sea and finds a half drowned, bruised and battered Hero.
Since Hero is such a bruised mess from her ordeal, Rory has no idea what a beauty she is until sometime after she has been returned to her family.
Kaye set the plot well leading up to the rape and Rory's actions, while not fully justified, did fit in with the story line.
Rory showed remorse the next day and while those same reviewers felt that the second night was a rape, I did not get that at all.
But over the course of her experiences in Zanzibar, many of which were unpleasant, she learns a great deal about herself and other people's way of life.The hero ( I almost shudder to call him that), also has to learn the hard way what NOT to do to make a success of himself, not materially because he does very well in that department, but as a person.
And even the unforgivable is not necessarily unforgivable.While I would never call this male protagonist "hero material", the book had a gritty realism that is hard to argue with.
I loved Hero's determination to set things to rights, even if she was naive to think she could really do it.
Now, as for the controversial bit in this story; (view spoiler)[ it's the only thing that makes me question my five stars, and this book gets those five stars anyway, in case you're wondering based on my first review.
I guess that while I don't like or agree with Rory Frost's way of claiming Hero, I do understand why he behaved that way.
Now, as for the book....I wavered between two and four stars from one chapter to the next so I’ll go for a final rating of three.On the plus side: the wonderfully evocative descriptions of Zanzibar—beautiful and terrible—and fascinating historical details that seem very well-researched.
On balance: Not up to the incredibly high standards of The Far Pavilions, but an interesting read for those who love epic historical fiction set in far away places.
I think part of my lack of enthusiasm stemmed from the fact that I was reading it concurrently with a series of utterly gripping non-fiction books; against really good history, fiction pales for me.Content rating PG warning: some crude language, mature thematic situations (slavery, concubinage, rape, war).
But, on the other hand, the rape is really central to the narrative arc of this story, so while it is a deal breaker for me as far as Rory's character goes - no matter what, I can't root for the rapist - I am not sure that Kaye could've written this book without it.This book raises so many questions for me, not the least of relates to writing fiction about abhorrent aspects of our shared historical past.
(view spoiler)[If there's a rapist in a story I feel like he should either be the villain of the story or else he better have quite the character growth in order to become the anti-hero, but God forbid he be the romantic hero of the story.I've read books with rape in it.
Plus, he realizes that one of the reasons he raped her was because he wanted to take her before her fiancee could.
Just.Batty ( a sailor on Captain Rory's ship ) who was a rogue through and through, was still a likable sort because he had a heart.
She was full of good ideas, but she didn't think them out first ( which lead to all sorts of disasters ).
As for Captain Rory Frost, (the Hero!??), I do not admire him, but I am very sorry for him.
And no matter how how bad the characters may seem, most of them are not what you think and often have an explanation, but maybe not very good ones…
Trade Wind is panoramic historical romance, in the style of M.M. Kaye’s others, Shadow of the Moon and Far Pavilions, both of which I read years ago, before Amazon and Goodreads made it possible for me to find more of her books.
I like a romance that isn’t all about romance—where there are real, important, gut clenching things happening, and Trade Wind is certainly that.
(view spoiler)[Rory, a pragmatist, has excellent excuses for selling people: he’s not as bad as the others, he helps the ‘real baddies’ get caught, and though he trades arms and has fingers in polictical pies, he maintains the status quo, arguably the least evil situation.
All the sea is not deep enough to wash away blood relationship.
What is written is written...Visit those you love, though your abode be distant,And clouds and darkness have arisen between you...This is the extraordinary story of Hero Hollis and Rory Frost which is settled in Zanzibar.
The author did a splendid work by describing the story of this not-well know island during slavery in the 19th century, showing the unfair game between France and England in order to profit of these workers.For further information, please see the wonderful reviews by Misfit and Hannahr.
Certainly this book will be included in my favorite books I have ever read, really magnificent!!

This summer again I gave way.We are now in a different universe, Zanzibar at around mid nineteenth-century, and our heroine is an American heiress heading there to become reunited with relatives and a man whom she may marry or not (she hasn't quite made up her mind yet).
In Trade Wind the protagonists, hero and heroine, are flawed people (who isn't?) who learn to overcome some of their defects, whilst also attempting to remain true to their own nature.
Karen Chilton did a very good job in mimicking various accents and tones.--Have read Chinese version a few years ago and reread in the original in the form of audio book while commuting.
Listening Kaye's work is quite amusing in a different way from reading, but I imagine this book is probably more suitable in audio form than The Far Pavilions due to the rather innocent tone of Hero.For yeas since I last read Trade Wind, I still couldn't fathom the way Hero acts and thinks and how she ignores her surroundings insisting what she thinks right.
The best thing about this book was the colorful and descriptive history of the island at that time. I enjoyed that part of it, and much of the adventure at the beginning of the story. The love story, however, was disappointing and unsatisfying, in my opinion. Whoever heard of a moral woman ( which this main character was)strong self image ( which she had) choosing between two rapists, and marrying the one who had actually raped HER? Sorry, I don't buy it.
The plot itself is captivating, while the characters are brought right off the page.
When Clayton's true character was revealed by Rory, I was quite shocked.
Maybe I'm just too trusting of characters in books such as this, but shame on him.
1)Hero's arrival to Zanzibar, and her first meeting Rory.
My rating: 9.5/10.3)The attack of the Gulf pirates, Zorah's death, and Hero's kidnapping.My rating: 10/10.4) Rory's time in jail, the cholera epidemicMy rating: 10000000/10.This is truly one of those books that you physically and mentally, can't put down.
Some characters had a true change of heart, while others came back to reality.
This is one of those books where you feel like giving the heroine a real good smack!
In fact nearly all the women in this historical romance are portrayed as silly, gullible and incapable of rational thought processes.
Having said that, it's a book full of romance and exotic locations, and the author has incorporated interesting historical events.
I think that if I had read this in my late teens or early twenties I would have been entranced - nowadays I'm a little harder to dazzle but it was still a good read and I would rate it 3.5 stars.
Could have been an ok book IF IT WASN'T FOR MAKING THE MAIN LOVE INTEREST A RAPIST. I'm sorry but no, I can't get past that. I don't care if he claimed he loved her all along, he raped her. I just could not get on board with this. Did not finish.
Loved this reread as much as the first time.
Or maybe fear, after reading certain reviews, that my beloved Kaye might disappoint me.How wrong I was!Here again, we have everything I so esteem and admire Kaye for: her exquisite writing, her wisdom and worldliness (in her own era), beautiful heroines and dashing/dastardly men, those sublimely-evocative descriptive passages, historical eras and true events powerfully depicted, wildly-romantic love stories, and all the guts, gore & glory of war and famine and disease and oppression and prejudice and men's greed and fallibility.
The whole plot point serves to highlight the utter hypocrisy of Hero/white western society's priggishness.
(hide spoiler)]The best part about this novel, however, is not the romance or relationship between Hero and Rory, though that did fascinate me.
It really was the backdrop, the way Kaye fit Zanzibar into the rest of the world, the way she dealt with slavery – not as the main focus (the plot hardly focused on it at all) but that slavery was always there, always present and completely integrated into the daily lives of every character in the novel, so much so they hardly realised the double-standards by which they were living and how hopeless they’d really be without it.
2.5 stars.This book was a disappointment to me, because I waited for so long before reading it, I needed to be in the mood for a passionating historical fiction/romance.
And It was, a very a good historical fiction, the description of Zanzibar and its people was perfect, I felt like I was there.
My issue was with the romance, that begun in the last third of the story.The H fell in love with the h after raping her out of revenge, and I didn't understand when, why and how the h started to feel the same.
(around) ~4~Queer and engaging with some in/significant 'holes'.If you want an in-depth story with a genius setting, beautiful descriptions.If you want main characters with many flaws who do many wrongs and decisions but who develop slowly and violently, brutally, steadily.
But story so well-researched that it's just awesome!P.S. If you have accidentally, or not as I have, read some bad stuff about the hero and you just can't, I get ya but I personally think he was really well explained.And Give it a try.
Don't give up  soo easily.
Yes - Zanzibar.Hero Athena Hollis (our heroine) is on her way to her uncle's family in Zanzibar when she manages to get tossed overboard in a storm and rescued by the despicable - yet dashing - captain of a slave ship.
and of course, Rory Frost, the dashing captain who is decidedly not suitable.There's really no question about who Hero will ultimately end up with, though many readers will be horrified by her treatment at the hands of Captain Frost, who rapes her in response to the rape and subsequent suicide of his mistress - crimes laid at Clayton's feet.
This is one of my all time favorite books for historical fiction. I read it every year or two.
I enjoyed this book except for (view spoiler)[the face that our heroine falls in love with her rapist. That is an unacceptable message for anyone. (hide spoiler)]
I read this soon after reading my favorite MM Kaye book "Shadow of the Moon." I did like this when I first read it, but it hasn't aged as well. This history of Zanzibar is interesting, but the main character, Hero, is kind of an irritating fanatic. Also, as a grown-up, I find the idea of non-consensual sex leading to true love kind of distasteful.
6-stars. What am I going to do now that this book has ended? I don't feel like reading anything else at the moment.
I read this book in high school (40+) years ago. Loved it then and I am not sure I have read many books I liked as well in all the years that followed.
