https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/155206.The_Romanovs
Massie’s very interesting and well researched account of the infamous murders of the Romanov family, Tsar Nicholas II and his wife Alexandra as well as their son and four daughters in the cellar of a house in Ekaterinburg, Russia in the early hours of the 17th July, 1918.
“Accordingly, Sokolov concluded that on July 18, the day after the execution, Yurovsky had destroyed the bodies by chopping them up with axes, dousing them repeatedly with gasoline and sulfuric acid, and burning them to ash in bonfires near the mine shafts.” For many years it was the accepted explanation.Eventually Sokolov’s findings were questioned.
(pause) they knew I was Anastasia.Host: Then they knew your secret?Anna: Yes, (looks down).Reading this script makes me simultaneously cringe and smile.
And now having read Massie’s book, I realize my interview was written about Anna Anderson, a pretender who Massie convincingly shows was not in fact Anastasia.
Unless you are really interested in Russian history (specifically the Anastasia myth) and/or forensic science, this isn’t the book for you.
I enjoyed Massie’s style and would be open to reading another of his books about Russia, although preferably one with less science and more history.
Very, very good, although I must say, having read Nicholas and Alexandra previously was of immense help and is probably the best way to go about reading this.
The Tsar and his four beautiful daughters adjust around them, duly taking their posed positions.It is a surprise to find, in place of a photographer, eleven hard men entering this tightly enclosed space.
And when the corpses were trundled out, transported, burned, buried, no one could remember exactly how this happened or where it took place.
Seventy years would pass before anyone stumbled upon those truths, long decades of rampant speculation, much of which may now be stilled.Robert Massie's The Romanovs: The Final Chapter is written in the style of a hard-hitting documentary and reports on the discovery of the Imperial family's remains in the swampland of Ekaterinburg.
The book is history (his forte) but it is also journalism and a discussion of forensic science and law.As a history buff, the beginning and ending parts were of most interest to me.
For a good treatment of the remaining Romanovs I recommend:The Flight Of The Romanovs A Family Saga.A lot of this book deals with forensic issues, the in fighting among the international scientific teams, and the legal issues involved.
I never realized the impact she had on the Romanovs and royalty in other parts of Europe.The discussion of "where" they are "now" (1995), which has obviously changed since this book's publication, was interesting.
The Romanovs: The Final Chapter reads like an elegy and a true crime novel.
I read the latter over the holidays and was completely swept away.
Massie has an uncanny talent for making 500+ pages of pre-Revolutionary Russian history just fly by.
The Romanovs: The Final Chapter is no different.
Massie is able to dramatize this all in a way that still makes the family the crux of the novel; bringing their tragedy into an even deeper relief.
His compassion for this family is astounding.
I had hoped that this book would give an intimate look at the last days of the family and just how they got to where they were before they were killed.
The book did cover this very briefly, but mostly it focused on the aftermath, of finding the bones in the grave, of debunking the imposters, petty turf wars among the scientific community in their search for the truth, and petty disagreements of the remaining family members of just who is really the "head" of the family now that the original family is dead.
It seems like most of those involved forgot what was really important, the death of this family.
I found myself disappointed in this book; I probably would've been better off to have read Nicholas & Alexandra first. I appreciated the amount of time put into the detail of the forensic research. What I didn't like was the amount of time given to the imposters, particularly after it was revealed that they couldn't be who they said they were.
I have been an avid reader of anything having to do with the Romanov family for years.
When I discovered this book, I must say I was ecstatic to finally see some scientific evidence pertaining to the tragic fall of the Last Tsar and his family.
That is exactly what this book provides.
The evidence found is fascinating and I'm sure even those of you who are not particularly interested in this topic or Russian history will find this book to be captivating.
This book is a great follow up Massie's Nicholas and Alexandra and provides even greater insight into the haunting tale of the Last of the Romanov family.
Αυτό το βιβλίο το διάβασα κατά λάθος, αλλά περίμενα να βρω και άλλα βρήκα, παρόλα αυτά όμως συνέχισα με την ανάγνωση. Το βιβλίο είναι ουσιαστικά μία περιγραφή όσων ακολούθησαν την εκτέλεση του τελευταίου Τσάρου και της οικογένειας του μέχρι την ανακάλυψη του τόπου ταφής τους και την αναγνώρισή τους με τη βοήθεια της τεχνολογίας. Ένα όχι ιδιαίτερα ενδιαφέρον θέμα για εμένα, για αυτό και δυσκολεύομαι να το βαθμολογήσω. Το συνιστώ μόνο ως επίλογο του άλλου βιβλίου του συγγραφέα για αυτό το θέμα, του Nicholas and Alexandra.
While the first book was published long before any remains were discovered, the second book explores the unearthing of the royal family’s final resting place, the authentication of the bones, the contention of a variety involved parties and the mystery of whether there were any survivors.
I had to slow down a bit to really absorb the various testing methods using nuclear DNA versus mitochondrial DNA and all the other technical jargon along with the many people involved in the process.An entire section is devoted to the mystery of Anna Anderson, aka Anastasia.
This captivating book is a great mystery in its own right.
Having just read and loved Robert K. Massie's Nicholas and Alexandra, I pounced on this one with somewhat unseemly glee. Alas, this was mostly about a group of academics squabbling over old bones and just it didn't grab me. Bottom line spoiler: (view spoiler)[Anastasia died with the other Romanovs and the woman who claimed to be Anastasia was a phony. (hide spoiler)] If you are interested in an updated version of the DNA testing, Google: 'Romanov, bones'!
After rereading the author's Nicholas and Alexandra (first published in 1967) I decided to pick this up for more on the Romanovs. It was published in 1995 and some significant discoveries were made after this date (including the discovery of the bones of Alexei and Maria). And the chapters on Anna Anderson (who thought herself Anastasia) and the Romanov relations got a little tedious. But Massie is an excellent writer and I learned more interesting details of the Romanov story.
Massie gives a good overview of the majority of them, so that one feels one got to know them as much as one needs to in order to understand everything in context, then focuses more on the most famous imposter, Anna Anderson.
We even got a little bit about the polish peasant she once was, how she was the 'cleverest of four siblings' which is something I always wanted to know more about, so naturally I gobbled up those pages like candies.
We then learn about the remaining Romanov relatives and their feelings on Russia and the bones and various other relevant matters.
Give strength, Just God, to us who need it,The persecutors to forgive,Our heavy, painful cross to carryAnd Thy great meekness to achieve.When we are plundered and insultedIn days of mutinous unrestWe turn for help to Thee, Christ-Savior,That we may stand the bitter test.Lord of the world, God of Creation,Give us Thy blessing through our prayerGive peace of heart to us, O Master,This hour of utmost dread to bear.And on the threshold of the graveBreathe power divine into our clayThat we, Thy chil
It exudes predominantly in Massie′s sympathetic depiction of the Tsar as a gentle creature appearing as a figure of paragon for his wife and children, whose love for his country and family, has become the harbinger of doom in the reign of terror after his fall.It is through this lamentable end that Massie′s Last Chapter on The Romanovs begins...Their deaths had been clouded in mystery as the truth of what happened to them was kept as top secret by the propagandist Communist government to stabilize their hold to power.
The Final Chapter takes my interest a hundred times farther by finishing the story as best as Massie could in the 1990s post-Soviet collapse.The Final Chapter reads as a historical account, a forensic examination, a journalistic investigation and a series of personal interviews all at once, with each of the four sections being focused on four somewhat different things — but each are closely intertwined in history and characters involved.
The third deals with the surviving members of the Romanov extended family and the people who have a claim to the Russian title, while the final part very briefly summarises the final days of the family in the Ipatiev house in Ekaterinburg, where the murders took place.I confess I didn’t read the book blurb properly, from the title alone I expected the history of the last years of the Tsar Nicholas II and his family and the historical and political scenario that lead to the murders.
I have read a biography of Catherine Catherine the Great: Portrait of a Woman by the same author and I like his style, so I plan to read his other book Nicholas and Alexandra, which hopefully would give me more insights on the Russian imperial family.
Obviously, still interested in the fate of Nicholas II, his wife Alexandra and their five children, Massie, tenaciously pursued the details surrounding the discovery of the remains in a wooded, secluded area of Ekaterinburg.The plan to kill the Romanovs was hastily pulled together.
The disposal of the bodies was as botched as the killing, originally buried in shallow graves, the bodies were burned and then re buried.While Masse's book plods along with gruesome details, and some chapters seem redundant, I recommend this book for those interested in the fate of The Romanovs and the political treachery of the Russian communist government.
The Romanovs chronicles the discovery and identification of nine sets of bones found in a shallow grave near Ekaterinburg, where Tsar Nicholas and his family spent their final days.
Massie, author of Nicholas and Alexandra, had been very outspoken in renouncing all those who claimed to be the Tsarevich Alexei or the Grand Duchess Anastasia throughout the 20th century, so of course he had a keen interest in this find.Several reviews criticize this book for lacking background information necessary for a person to understand what happened to the Russian royal family before their murder in the cellar at Ipatiev House.
I first encountered the history of the last Tsar many years ago through Robert Massie's book 'Nicholas and Alexandra'.
In the past several years, many gorgeous books have been published, full of photos.
Every once in a while, I choose a book that takes me back to these times and enhances my learning.This book recounts both the final days of the lives of the Romanov family and the events that followed over the next 75 years.
The mystery surrounding the total disappearance of the family is eventually uncovered (some details after the publication of this book), followed by the search for a scientific certainty.
Kind of gruesome in some parts, although you probably won't think so if you're a fan of CSI or NCIS or any of those forensic crime shows.
Also, it was published before some of the mysteries were solved or certain things were decided, even though people were in the process, and it hasn't been updated to include the solutions to any of the situations, if any.
Other than that, it's really interesting, and in most cases, each person's point of view is represented fully and objectively.
I enjoyed learning some of the in-depth details of the exhumation and subsequent issues that I hadn't previously known or understood.
This is an interesting book. Provides a good insight into the surviving Romanovs but is a bit heavy on the forensic science in parts.
Very very interesting history lesson which dives deep into the research about the Russia's Tsar, and any possible relatives, and the latest DNA results from the world's renowned scientists. Highly recommended for history buffs.
A book about a pile of bones and the trouble they caused. I loved this book.
I misunderstood the blurb for this book and was expecting details of the last days of the Romanovs. Instead it is book about forensic science and the search for old bones. If that is what you want then this book is fine. I was disappointed.
I got this book from the library thinking it would be about the final chapter of the lives of the Romanovs.
Instead, it was about the final chapter of their deaths.
That of course is my own fault for not figuring out what the book was before borrowing it from the library.
But despite my surprise at the premise and the book not being quite what I was looking for, I found it really interesting.
This book wasn't what I was looking for, but I'm glad I read it.
4.5Such an intricately written, researched and thought-out novel, from the byzantine mind of Pulitzer-Prize winning author Robert K.
The start drags a little (I mean, this is quite literally a book all about the methods of which the Romanov family were buried and the long process to identify the bones) but it eventually picks up, when Massie begins to chronicle the curious case of Anna Anderson/Anastasia Manahan and all the other charlatans/mentally ill people convinced they were one of the Romanov children.
While this book is about the Romanovs around the time of the 1917 revolution, the imprisonment and murders of the Tsar and his family, the bulk of the book is about the Anastasia pretenders, and particularly about Anna Anderson/Anna Monahan.
A number of times I was invited to have cocktails with the homeowner and a few other of her boarders and the Monahans, Tom and Anna/Anastasia.
Anna Monahan's story takes up the bulk of this quite detailed book by Robert K.
I had read a number of other books about her, two of which believed that she had to be the real Anastasia.
Extremely informative as always, but the emphasis of the first third of the book is on the science and confusion of determining the bones of Tsar Nicholas II and his family, the 2nd third is on the legal challenges to the bones as well as the legal proceedings of several imposters/family members and others and the final third regards the descendants and claims to the nonexistent crown.
I still recommend The Final Chapter to those who want the details of the determination of the Ekaterinburg bones, are interested in the pretenders to the Russian crown or are interested in the science and legal aspects of the case.
4.5/5An absolute must-read for anyone interested in not only the Romanovs, but also Russian history or forensic science.I recently returned from living in St. Petersburg where I visited the mass grave of the Romanovs and their servants in Peter and Paul Fortress, saw icons of Nicholas II as saint/martyr in several churches, and watched news reports on memorial services held in Ekaterinburg on the anniversary of the murder.
