https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11227041-the-gamble
4.5 Wonder Max Stars “Duchess?” He threw his other hand out, his gaze drifting the length of me as he said, “Fancy-ass clothes, fancy-ass purse, fancy-ass boots, fancy-ass accent.” His eyes came to my face and he finished firmly. “Duchess.”-Nina and Max SpoilersOk so this is only the 4th book by Kristen Ashley that I have read. The other 3 being the books from the Three Series which is her PNR series. The Three Series was iffy for me. I hated the first book Until the Sun Falls from the Sky with
“Duchess.”-Nina and Max SpoilersOk so this is only the 4th book by Kristen Ashley that I have read.
There was great character, and relationship development in this book that I felt like I really got their whole story.
I loved that even though Max is a widow and even though he really loved his dead wife, I never felt like Nina came second.
Max may have never seen her as second to his dead wife or treated her that way but Nina seen herself that way.
I laughed so much reading this book that my face hurt at times.
and I’m officially in love with Macho Mountain Max!!Tired of her boring life with her bland and clueless fiance, Nina decides she needs a timeout to rethink what she wants out of life and so she books an idealic 2-week stay in a gorgeous mountain house in Colorado.
The book isn't THAT long...though it sure felt like it).The main character, Nina, is British (American really, but has a British Accent).
If Nina wasn't bad enough, the rest of the characters were.
I don't know why, perhaps people in Colorado talk like this, but I sincerely doubt it.
Oh, and Max also says "Yeah" a lot, which bothered me.
Macho mountain man always protecting his woman, eccentric mother who wants to move in next door, crazy hermit neighbour...you get the idea.And Max...I have nothing against domineering men.
She wasn't even angry (well,the book says she was angry, but I didn't see it!).
DNF @ 45% I give up.   My first Kristen Ashley read and most likely my last. I've heard so much about her books, I finally got around to trying one and unfortunately the experience was not so great. Rather miserable to be honest. Just gonna get straight to the problems... THE WRITING  Dear gawd. There is absolutely no structure or editing in this. It's a looooong-winded mess with no direction. I needed to re-read a Lisa Kleypas book to flush this out of my system. Gah.-Use of parenthesis "Charli
KA has this strange tendency of italicizing words that do not need emphasizing and only manages to make the characters sound strangely juvenile."He cracked two eggs into the side of the skillet with the bacon and the bacon grease and I stared." Just...WTH?-Fragment and Run-on sentences.
Max- He’s the most cardboard-like hero I think I’ve read in a Contemporary setting.
I only read up to page 259 and the only thing I got was them ‘making out’ constantly and Nina waffling and finding endless excuses to leave Max. Didn't even manage to get to the first love scene.
I did feel the book was a tad long-winded and wish the hero and heroine spent more time together without the constant interruptions from the secondary characters.
With that said, I still loved this story.
I loved Max's and Nina's characters.
(Note: I might tear my hair out in frustration if all Kristen Ashley's heroines use the term "I'm sorry?" when not comprehending a question or statement.
The best part of The Gamble, other than Max, was the epilogue.
Thank you Kristen Ashley for another great story with a lot of heart-and-soul.
Kristen Ashley magic...or my blind devotion?I absolutely love this story, but sometimes I feel guilty.
Magic, I tell you...**********The Gamble definitely paid off.I've decided that my re-reads will be done on audio.
Nina comes to America from England to have a break from her fiancé and to decide if she really wants to stay with him.
Unfortunately, Niles, the fiancé, wasn't listening when Nina voiced her concerns and didn't really see any problems with the way things were.
It doesn't take Max long to realise that Nina is awakening feelings in him that he hasn't had for a very long time.
There are already many excellent reviews of this book, so I’m going to keep mine short - I kept seeing Kristen Ashley’s name show up on my Goodreads friends’ status and review updates, so I had to see for myself what all the hoopla was about!
The story itself is all over the place and yet easy to follow and a joy to read.
The bottom line - Sometimes heartwarming, sometimes tragic, The Gamble is a funny, romantic, hot story, one I truly, truly enjoyed!-----If you're a Kristen Ashley addict, or just interested in checking her books, be sure to stop by our Kristen Ashley Addict's Support Group here on Goodreads!
5+ stars – Contemporary Romance The Gamble  is my second Kristen Ashley read, and I enjoyed it as much as Sweet Dreams, mainly because yummy, protective alpha hero Max actually rocked my world more than SD’s Tate. Nina and Max were great together, and the story kept me completely engaged, despite the fact that it’s very lengthy.  The Gamble  is another winner, and I’m looking forward to reading more from this author. 5 stars!One of my favorite scenes is when Max mops the floor with Nina’s snooty
is my second Kristen Ashley read, and I enjoyed it as much as Sweet Dreams, mainly because yummy, protective alpha hero Max actually rocked my world more than SD’s Tate.
Looks like you’re gonna lose it, you do everything you can to stop that from happening.” Max looked back to Niles.
She was a week away from me, she walked into a room I was in holdin’ another man’s hand, I’d lose my fuckin’ mind.
(hide spoiler)]Max:
REVIEW COMPLETED SEPTEMBER 6, 2012 "You'll get the good stuff, Duchess."  Wonder Max. Divine. Admittedly, my Max did change his eye color from grey to brown. Whatever. He is gorgeous."Forgot about carin' about someone so much you would do everything in your power to stop them havin' pain."I should have read The Gamble sooner rather than later. Yes, Sweet Dreams and Tate will always stay above and beyond, however, Max…he is simply another divine KA hero. I was surprised that he had very few jerk-
I was surprised that he had very few jerk-ish moments, and I felt that he was kind of tamer than her other badass alphas."You're being domineering again," I informed him.I felt his mouth grin under mine and watched his eyes do it."Yeah, baby, fair warnin', when we're naked, you better get used to that."I gasped at his words then he kissed me.Without a shadow of a doubt scrumptious, studtastic, yet caring and tender Max is responsible for another unforgettable read.
<3 <3 <3And then at the end this specific scene...I'm happy for you, honey, Anna said and Max closed his eyes.Then he opened them and pulled Nina closer."I'm happy too," he whispered.I'm going now.
4 the definition of guilty pleasure STARSAnd another Kristen Ashley book for me. I simply can't stop with this woman. I'm guessing it has something to do with my current mood and my need to read something lovely that makes me feel good...like coming home, or eating comfort food in grandma's kitchen.Anyway...why did I put 'the definition of guilty pleasure' up there in my rating? Because it's one of those chick flicks where you have to suspend your disbelieve and just go with the flow.  “I looked
So naturally she hops on a plane from England to America, drives into the Colorado Mountains where she booked a beautiful A-Frame for two weeks.Turns out the idyllic get-away is occupied by the owner and her booking was made by mistake.
The whole town is involved and is cheering for Max and Nina and there are a lot of crazy mountain town people shenanigans going on and oh...there's a murder.
OMG, they fight...mostly because Nina is a hell cat and Max is a stubborn mountain man and they bicker and they are made for each other.
Nina Sheridan desperately needed a timeout from her life (especially her fiancee).
Luckily, coming to Gnaw Bone (that's the name of the town, I'm not kidding), seems to be one of the best decision's she made in her life.Max, what to say about Max. He's a great guy.
It's not that bad, but if you can't stand them, this may not be the book for you.The reason for the 4 star rating is mostly Nina.
There's so much stuff crammed in, that it became a bit ridiculous at times.All in all, I liked the book and I will be reading the sequel Sweet Dreams.Rating:4.5 stars
Now there is a lot of drama going on in this little mountain town right now.
Nina meets a lot of new people who she falls in love with right away.
He could be overprotective and a little possesive, but he was also incredibly sweet(Oh I loved the nicknames: Duchess, honey, baby, darlin'...) Couldn't get enough of Max!
I actually really loved Nina as well.
There was just a lot of story and it really gave you time to get to know the characters- it wasn't at all rushed.
"There was a time in my life where I used to roll the dice.
"You think to slide back, settle for something that made you run away because you think it's safe, because it's familiar, because you're scared of takin' a gamble on me, I'm warnin' you now, Duchess, I'm not gonna allow that."  4 Holden Maxwell Stars!Be still my heart. This book was all kinds of sweet and adorable and wonderful!The Gamble may be wordy but it was so worthy. 670+ pages and I regret nothing! Perhaps it has something to do with the way the author made me feel so ooey and gooey ins
The moment she stepped into the beautiful mansion she's supposed to stay, she met the handsome (or should I say, perfect) owner named Max. While staying there they were able to get to know each other and well, eventually developed attraction and fell in love.
Of course it wasn't that perfect and easy since Nina's already engaged and Max has a complicated past that she has to find out.I found this book quite a guilty-pleasure.
One thing that made me appreciate this book was Nina and Max's relationship which felt real to me.
Re-read (on audio) for the 3rd time May 21st 2018 and loved it all over again.
This is classic Kristen Ashley with all the rambling and crazy, fun friends.
Of course wouldn't be KA without a delicious Alpha male who won't let go or take no for an answer.
Max calling Nina "Duchess" made even more sense hearing her accent.
Max was a typical Kristen Ashley Alph-Male, but isn't that what we love about her writing?
Nina was a cutie and I loved her big heart.
You think, findin' that in you, I'm gonna let you change my password, write me some f&%ked up note and walk away?" 
4 Please stop saying you're sorry before I hit you stars "You lose anyone, there’s no replacing them. What you need to get is that's precious. You get to keep that. You don't want to replace it. That doesn't mean you can't find something else just as good." Welcome to Gnaw Bone, Colorado. I'm not sure why I spent my time searching through pictures to find my perfect Max and Nina, where really, I could have just gone with (Did I just age myself?) I love, and I mean LOVE Kristen Ashley books. I ha
I'm not sure why I spent my time searching through pictures to find my perfect Max and Nina, where really, I could have just gone with (Did I just age myself?) I love, and I mean LOVE Kristen Ashley books.
Huh. But then there was NinaNow I know I tend to have a short fuse when it comes to irritating heroines...but FOR THE LOVE OF ALL THAT'S HOLY she worked my last damn nerve.
Max even pretty much begs to talk things out with her.
It felt like most of her vocabularly when it came to Max consisted of: "I'm sorry", "Um", and "Uh".
Max finds her and takes care of her during her illness.
I melted with the way he cared for Nina while she was ill.
He was super loving and I just wanted to kiss him for it.
I loved the kisses to the forhead, him calling Nina "Duchess" and just pretty much anything he would do.
I loved that he showed Nina how it's like to be in a relationship where she matters.
It was like freaking clue, and I love that game.
I LOVED Max, I was surprised I really liked the heroine and the story was really entertaining.
I love evil twins!)This book is about Nina, an American girl who has spent most of her life in England and is engaged to a boring guy who doesn't care about her, and Max, an alpha Colorado mountain man who owns the cabin that Nina rented to get away from it all and decide if she really wants to marry Mr. Boring Dud.
Thanks a lot for making us women drivers look bad, Nina!!I bet she makes a great sandwich, though...Max saves her, and immediately she gets sick, so he keeps her at the cabin and nurses her back to health.Okay, that's really sweet, BUT, he also decides to undress her - including her bra, while she is asleep, to help.
4 stars   “In my life, I’ve learned when to let shit go and when to fight.
This is the book where I fell in love with her as an author, and I devoured the Mountain Man series.
I've never read another series like this one, and I don't think I ever will.I love Max and his Duchess.
Such a wonderful story of a lost woman who found herself with the help of the right man.
But otherwise it's wonderful.
With flashing eyes and a strong stance, Nina informs him she has paid for the A-Frame in advance, wants to get her groceries, luggage and supplies into the house and settle.As Max takes all of this in, he is on the phone letting the realtor know he messed up big time.
I know there are many fans of Max and Nina and hopefully, new ones will be coming.This was another re-read of this book and won't be my last...
The Gamble (Colorado Mountain, #1)https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Sweet Dreams (Colorado Mountain, #2)https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Breathe (Colorado Mountain, #4)https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Jagged (Colorado Mountain, #5)https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Kaleidoscope (Colorado Mountain, #6)https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Dear GR Friends, After reading the 3 books in this series I am packing up my shit and moving to Colorado.
Ok Seriously after reading the Rock Chick series and falling for most of them but Luke took top spot, and then the Dream Man series and falling head over heels for Tack and Hawk I didn't think I had much more in me.
Leaving your stuck up Fiancee for a timeout only to meet the man of your dreams by staying in his house!
but what a great story it was, Amazing man, amazing woman, witty dialogue, great secondary characters, good laughs It has everything you could want!
This was another great Kristen Ashley read..
I did however find it somewhat long.
In fact, I am thinking it was over 600 pages...I felt that some of the story could have been shaved down a bit; but even so I did enjoy this read over all!
I am looking forward to the rest of the Colorado series, and of course; more of the gruff Alpha men that KA gives us in her stories!!!
If you are a reader who enjoys Ms. Ahsley's style of writing; then this will be a book you will highly enjoy.
A great addition to her many wonderful stories!!!
First read: Feb 7-10. 2012The book's synopsis basically says it all. It was a none stop roller-coaster ride throughout the whole story.The characters are brilliantly written. The story is AMAZING!There was so much going on all the time, and yet it wasn't 'busy'. I loved the author's style of writing. The characters became real and were extremely likeable.This book is not a quick read, so if you want to put the time into a really good read. I highly recommend this book!Re-read: August 29-31, 201
The characters became real and were extremely likeable.This book is not a quick read, so if you want to put the time into a really good read.
My husbands driving, my daughters listening to her I-pod, and I'm reading this bloody book's epilogue and bawling my eyes out.
I finished this book with such a warm-fuzzy feeling because I TOTALLY forgot how friggin HOT Holden Maxwell was, and how much I liked Nina character!
I thoroughly enjoyed this re-read.It was amazing to revisit the incredible characters in Gnaw Bone and once again read Nina and Max's wonderful story.
But before she can get any thinking time done, Nina meets Max.
A series of events lead to Nina ending up back at the A-frame with Max and that is where she stays.But this is a KA book, so obviously, that isn't all that happens.
Of course, as time goes on, Max decides that despite their initial spat, he rather likes Nina and tries to convince her to stay.
If you haven't read KA books and you like yourself some super sexy Alpha man-candy...
Max is great to her, and she reeealy doesn't want to have anything with him, but hey, he's too persuasive XD She's feisty, doesn't let anyone walk all over her, or Max, and she fights with his ex girlfriend and sister (hilarious!!!) It gets ugly for her when she finds out about (view spoiler)[ Anna, Max's dead wife who he adored.
When she arrives all odds are against her; there's a snow storm, she's feeling sick with a cold and it turns out the rental she had booked is not really available, but she temporarily forgets all that when she encounters the owner of the cabin, a really big and sexy mountain man named Holden Maxwell, AKA Max.Five minutes into the fight with the very fancy and beautiful Nina, Max knew he wanted to get to know this woman and keep her near.
However Nina is pretty sick and ends up being stuck there letting Max take care of her for a few days after which Max totally acts like the hero we all want him to be and has decided he likes this spunky feisty woman and if the man whose ring she is wearing doesn’t know what he has well then too bad finders keepers and all.Max is what I’ve come to expect from a KA alpha male.
This is clearly a romance novel but there is a little side action happening with the murder of a local developer that no one in the town really liked but especially not Max since they have a bit of history.
I enjoyed that. Great story and a great hero by the name of Max. Some may be put off by him, with his controlling and domineering way, but I wasn't, I liked him. The heroine Nina, is no wallflower, she's great and she doesn't take crap from anyone if she knows you're in the wrong.The story itself took, lots of twists and turns and the ending took by surprise. Great HEA too.My Max.
Re read - love it as much as the first time.I loved Nina and Max, even with their flaws and issues.
Even when they were being daft or doing something I did not agree with, it was obvious it was borne out of a sense of fear.
Great cast of secondary characters (and as I thought the first time, Brody needs a story!)Great exciting plot with characters you care about.
The writing gives a very real sense of what is happening, and how something is, so you have a very clear picture in your head.As usual with KA an awesome epilogue!
And I thought 50 Shades was bad; KA's need for an editor is DIRE.) As my GR friend Karla (Mossy Love Grotto) said, "it's like all syntax was put into a blender." Oh, you betcha.
I liked a lot of things about him - especially his habit of hooking his fingers in NIna's belt loops and pulling her into him.(Here's an observation: About 17 years ago I moved from a city of about 200,000 to a much smaller one with a population of about 15,000.
If taking a timeout leads me to my own Mountain Man Max, I’m as good as on it right now.
While I wouldn’t consider the book erotic, Max is the master at dirty talk…he tells Nina what he wants, and those visions alone had me squirming in my seat.
Max did not disappoint, and it was good for Nina, and me!
The secondary characters were as much a part of the story as Max and Nina, which made the book that much more enjoyable.
I couldn’t get enough of the interaction not only between Max and Nina, but all the characters.
