https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18811399-etiquette
I'm not being ironic when I write that Post is an ethical philosopher of the American type, with Santayana and James.
But Post's dicta are all based on one pragmatic goal: keep your feet off the other guy's toes, or, don't take up more space than's yours.
You get the idea: these aren't Rules for Behavior; they're a mode of living where you try to take just a tiny bit of care to the other guy.
کتاب بسیار مفصل و جامعی ست درباره ی آداب معاشرت که به موضوعات و موقعیت های متنوعی می پردازد.بخش اول 
When I was a teenager on homeschool, my sister and I decided we would like to do an independent study class on proper etiquette for fun.
I feel so much more cultured and educated now that I know the proper ways things are supposed to be done.
And you don't have to read the whole thing through - just refer to it occasionally if you're wondering about something or if you're just curious about a particular subject.
I almost felt while reading it like I was mad because no one had ever taught me any of those things before!
I found the 1945 edition of this book on the free shelves outside the library ... learned a lot about "Managing the Small Household" with only one servant!
I found it amusing.
I associated it with many of the old Hollywood movies I saw on TV.
Eventually it dawned on me that we weren't all descended from the Pilgrims, so why was that the way we learned American history?My parents also had a copy of Phyllis Diller's Housekeeping Hints, which was essentially the antidote to Emily Post's writings.
Diller and stand-up comedy in general, was on the edge with dirty jokes, so it was an adventure to sort of sneak read Phyllis Diller, just like sneaking the Ian Fleming novels that were also sandwiched between classics at home.
This was around 1965, when I was nine years old.
Perfect for the history-lover or Mia Thermopolis
Always fun to compare this streamlined 1984 (14th edition) with my 1959 (9th edition) book. It would appear a new edition comes out every 4-5 years, as I think an 18th edition is now available? Gee, who'd figure etiquette changed that rapidly? Ah, heck - with the degeneration of civil society today we should be down to a comic-book size/version by 2020 ish! And then after almost a hundred years of instructing ladies and gentlemen about pinkie-extension during tea - they'll be advising us on how to respond properly to one-finger salutations.
This should really be on everyone's "to be read" list. Especially timely in this technology age where so many people find personal communication and manners so difficult to understand! In fact, this should be required reading for every in schools!
Good reference textbook, but note that it was written in 1945 and the majority of it deals with how to behave in wealthy society. That said, there are things that are applicable and things that are good to know. If I were to read it again, I would read the updated version.
So this is one of the two classic etiquette texts, the other being the Vanderbilt. I have not read this one cover-to-cover, but it is the one my wife and I turned to repeatedly during our engagement to determine the proper approach to a variety of pre-nuptial land mines.
My edition's from the 40s (and signed by the author!) I wonder to what extent the family has changed it over the years. Anyway, this is a really good book, with not nearly as much useless information as is commonly believed. Much of it is quite philosophical.
I love, love, love this book. 'Tis my social Bible. I've got the eight edition, and I live by it. Yes, I know some of its slightly outdated, but I don't mind. To have sincere 1920s manners in a 13 year old would be amazing for adult me.
I'm actually currently reading the 1945 "new edition", which was an AWESOME SCORE at an estate sale. So far the book totally delivers!
I recieved this from my father when I was 12 years old. I still love to thumb through it.....I am such a nerd!
Fabulous and exciting to read. This has everything you could ever need to know about most social situations.
I absolutely love ettiquette books, and Emily Post is still the greatest stylist of the genre! The 1922 edition is the best.
if only we could ALL be that self-conscious and polite...
Actually fascinating read, so interesting to see the earlier origins of current customs. A bit old fashioned in places, just in writing style, may need to be prepared for that.
The section on Social networks was small and general, but helpful. There is just so much covered that each topic only really gets a little coverage.
My go-to book when I don't know what's the right thing to do or a good way to respond to a situation.
So much fun to read and see what the perfect lady used to be!
An excellent reference, though I find myself wanting a Japanese version.
Preeminently superb.
Peaches, How to Eat. I have the 1940 and 1955 editions. Reading them is like watching old movies.
You need this book. You may be socially adept (as I am so very not), but you still need this book. Members of Congress should be required by law to read Emily Post and to behave accordingly.
There may be a raging controversy on who is better, Emily Post or Miss Manners, but you won't catch me choosing sides.
I vaguely recall reading this when I was about 13...
This remained a popular and well thumbed books for decades. I think this book kept people polite longer than they would have been!
Gone, but not forgotten.
