https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/409808.Conan_the_Wanderer
Five stars for the original Howard stories 'Shadows in Zamboula' and 'The Devil in Iron'. The other two tales in this volume are the pastiche 'Black Tears' by De Camp and Carter, and 'The Flame Knife' a story by Howard postumously 'converted' to a Conan story by De Camp.
The books I'd take to a desert island.The books I'd save from a house on fire.The books I read over and over.The best of the best.
Conan books were the coolest thing in the world when I was in sixth grade, and I'm so happy to see the cover art hasn't changed.
This was the first Conan book I ever read, and for many years afterward, I read every single Conan book I could get my hands on. If you think all fantasy is like Tolkien or Lewis, get ready for a serious kick in the pants.
I keep giving these books 3 stars despite the fact they are getting better as the series goes along.
First let me say that I am keenly interested in getting a hold of the original stories because I find myself liking the ones that do not have Lin Carter or L.
I have a sense that they are more genre writers than true ghost writers that try to seamlessly add stories/endings to the series.
At any rate, we see some longer stories in this volume as well as the return of some previous characters.
I'd give this one 3.5 stars and recommend to anyone interested in the fantasy genre.
This is one of the Lancer Conans. Some of you will hate them because they are not only NOT the pure Howard stories, but they also include stories made from notes and pastiches by other authors. I enjoyed them, maybe not so much as the pure Howard stories, but they are good. I don't have all of them anymore and they are hard to find...if you can find them they are worth a try. Wish someone would reissue them.
The master of Sword and Sorcery. Great stories that scare and delight; a hero, who's strength and cunning go unrivaled, and a good dollop of other-world building that make all Conan's novels great reads.
This is the first Conan book I've ever read.
It is very linear, no plot twists, and when he finally meets the bad guy for the final battle he basically goes "chop" and that's the end of the story.
Listed as one of my horse books of 2018 because Conan rides a horse everywhere he goes.
Conan liberates a mystical blade from an enormous serpent watchdog, then channels his inner psycho killer and chases Khosatral Khel down and knifes him repeatedly, reducing him to his original form, which is so grotesque it can't even be described.The Flame KnifeWritten by Robert E.
Conan finds his way into the city and crosses paths with Olgerd Vladislav, the man who rescued him from crucifixion in the story A Witch Shall Be Born.
Since Conan repaid him by stealing command of his men, Olgerd looks forward to settling the score.
Well, much of this is the most average of Conan material, but the concluding novella: "The Flame Knife" is superb."Black Tears" 2.5/5 StarsL.
Sprague de Camp and Lin Carter craft the most completely average Conan story I've read so far.
The ending redeems much of it, and it's a shame that it goes nowhere."The Devil in Iron" 2.5/5 StarsAnother Robert E.
Howard story, the beginning is a weaker copy of "Black Colossus" then it proceeds to create a better "Shadows in the Moonlight," so the bag is mixed right from the start.
The ending is also crap, but the middle, facing the titular Devil in Iron is pretty great."The Flame Knife" 4/5 StarsL.
You don't really pick up a Conan book for a deeper understanding of the human(nor barbarian) conditi
I quite enjoyed all the stories in this edition.
very interesting- some of the stories were published as early as 1930"s- which means they are absent of PC thoughts- but very good writing and plots...can see how The Black Company got some of its ideas. Also, forward speaks of how the author suicided at age 30...much of what is dark in the books might shed light on what was going on with him. Also, I love how he takes many of the places & nations that Conan interacts with straight from The Bible...many obsure references. Obviously Howard knew his scripture.
Although de Camp and Carter's contributions are not in the same league as the Great Robert E. Howard's are, this loosely-connected collection of short tales still makes good entertainment and I’m glad the other writers filled in the gaps that Conan’s creator left open. The usual elements that make quality Conan adventures are all here: vivid sword fights, supernatural horrors, scantily clad & naked women, exotic settings, and a barbarian warrior who'll tackle any mortal or demonic foe.
This was my first taste of Conan. Okay so I was a teenager :) I loved the character and the simple world. But I came to realize that what I really loved was Howard's writing. His tales stood head and shoulders above all the pastiches.
Read in the 70s
The Howard stories are good... the others, not as much.
nice story
See Conan book 1 for my thoughts on this series.
Great book!
A good edition of Conan stories that exemplify the character very well.
The Flame Knife / Płomienny nóż I recommend:)
possibly read in winter 1969
Howard's writing reflects his inner mind in this novel.
The greatest fantasy literature...Conan!
Hard to beat the original Conan. The character never dies... Conan is forever.
The tale of the worlds greatest barbarian continues...monsters slain and damsels rescued.
I was 21 when I first came across these novels. I devoured the first ten in the series in short order. A classic and one of the all time greats. Even the ones that weren't completely Howard's words.
Some of these Howard stories are so un-PC21 July 2012 Well this is the second collection of Conan stories that I have read though I must admit that the version that I am reading is actually three books in one, however I wanted to look at each of the books individually since they were originally published separately (and while it may appear that I am inflating the number of books that I have read, remember considering the number of books that I have read I don't need to inflate anything, and seco
Some of these Howard stories are so un-PC21 July 2012	Well this is the second collection of Conan stories that I have read though I must admit that the version that I am reading is actually three books in one, however I wanted to look at each of the books individually since they were originally published separately (and while it may appear that I am inflating the number of books that I have read, remember considering the number of books that I have read I don't need to inflate anything, and secondly, this is three books in one so it would be logical to look at each of the books individually).
Book 4 of the Lancer Conan series, with longer tales than the previous books so there are only four stories here.
Conan has progressed from thieving and random violence to now generally being the leader of a king's personal guard, a group of mercenaries or pirates.
In this story when confronted with an obviously unnatural event, Conan the Barbarian turns and runs like a little girl, fleeing heedlessly through the jungle in a mad flight of terror.
It also includes one of the rare occurrences of Conan meeting with someone from a previous story.
