https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/183819.Sociobiology
Sociobiology: The New Synthesis, Edward O. Wilsonعنوان: سوسیوبیولوژی (زیست شناسی اجتماعی)؛ نویسنده: ادوارد ویلسون؛ مترجم: عبدالحسین وهاب زاده؛ مشهد، جهاد دانشگاهی، 1384؛ در 352 ص؛ شابک: 9643241025؛ کتابنامه 331 تا 352؛ موضوع: عادات و رفتار اجتماعیفهرست: سوسیوبیولوژی در پایان قرن بیستم؛ 1. اخلاق ژن؛ 2. مفایم اولیه سوسیوبیولوژی؛ پیشتاز تکاملی و رانش اجتماعی؛ مفهوم جمعیتشناسی سازشی؛ کیفیات جامعهگرایی؛ مفهوم سنجه رفتاری؛ 4. محرکهای اصلی تکامل اجتماعی؛ ماند تباری؛ فشار بوم شناختی؛ بازگشت پذیری در تکا

Read the original in college...will always be relevant. Humans are animals, get over it. Humans are special, so is every living thing.
"Camus said that the only serious philosophical question is suicide. That is wrong even in the strict sense intended. The biologist, who is concerned with questions of physiology and evolutionary history, realizes that self-knowledge is constrained and shaped by the emotional control centers in the hypothalamus and limbic system of the brain. These centers flood our consciousness with all the emotions–hate, love, guilt, fear, and others–that are consulted by the ethical philosophers who wish to intuit the standards of good and evil. What, we are then compelled to ask, made the hypothalamus and limbic system? They evolved by natural selection."
I mean, cool in the sense that it validated all of my thinking with regards to why animals, people in particular, act like they do.I imagine that this book is to modern animal behavior science what the Pythagorean theorem is to geometry: a very simple representation of some very basic principles that, when expounded upon, lead to some real revelatory shit.That being said, I picked at this - it's a textbook after all - so I can't claim to have read it cover to cover.
Surprisingly, I'd also recommend this to Creationists, if only because I wouldn't mind hearing about their heads exploding while trying to rationalize actual science with their beliefs.
Then again if the majority of human beings took to critical reading, research, and unbiased contemplation of presented facts, they would have much less to complain about.
- decided to stay, it has become glaringly obvious that a good deal of human beings live to complain.
Without the ability to complain, be it brought on by enlightenment or some sort of of technological fascist ploy, the suicide rate would indeed skyrocket.
I'm a sociologist and Wilson is kind of the boogey man to us. I was pleasantly surprised though when finally reading this. Not because I think he explains much human social stuff, but because he's much more modest than reductionists like Dawkins, and he at least nominally recognizes the issue of multiple levels of reality and analysis that probably can't be simply collapsed into each other. So; not a major threat to socials science, but ants are definitely cool.
Amazing that so many nuts object to this book. Basically humans are just another animal, behave like animals and have instincts like animals, below the veneer of civilisation and intelligence. Only egotistical people (such as creationists) would believe otherwise. Get over yourselves! Wilson has been assaulted and vilified for daring to articulate this simple fact! A science hero!
A classic. Long and requires a significant commitment, this book is a text that serves better as a reference. Reading the chapters on primates for a full appreciation of its significance and controversy
This tome was very informative and very thorough. It was also way too dense for most lay people. If it was intended as a textbook, it serves the purpose well. Not so much as a little light reading.
Makes so much sense....
In Sociobiology (and the new edition with lots of lovely photos, etc.), I am less thrilled.
Sociobiology tends to assume (and not necessarily demonstrate) that all behaviors are genetically determined.
This may be a tempting assumption to make when speaking about, say, insects, but the assumption is held throughout the animal kingdom.
It is quite easy to fall into the adaptationism viewpoint; easy, but not necessarily scientifically accurate or honest.I'd give this 2 to 3 stars - two for the flaws in the approach, but 3 for the attempt in this new volume to bring more about evolution, animal behavior, and diversity to the mass market in a lovely, glossy book.
What can you say about an author who establishes his own scientific discipline with a single book? Spectacular! A must have for the bookshelf of anyone -- amateur or professional -- with an interest in the nexus between sociology and biology; between individual survival and social reciprocity.
Quite amazing how social structures span so many different species, from communication, hierarchies, leaders, learning, groups, love, emotions and altruism. We as a species are advanced but not so unique. Fascinating how certain species naturally adapt in a few generations (or perish) in response to resource constraints and overpopulation. How little we know of life, intertwined nature and our past.
Si no entiendo mal, este libro es la base de la sociobiología, defendida por Pinker y que fue acusada de eugenesica al darle relevancia a la participación biológica en la toma de decisiones, con lo que echa por tierra la teoría de  La tabla rasa.
It is a long time since this has come out and the subject has moved an enormous distance since then, as well as, being renamed 'evolutionary psychology' along the way. This is, though, a brilliant and entertaining book and is, one can say aptly, seminal.
Contains full text of the hardcover first published in the 1970's. I read and studied the hardcover during the early 1980's. An impressive work whether or not you have the same or different perspectives, assumptions, analogies as the author.
This book blew me away. The attacks on it seemed to be based on straw men.
Part of who I am. read in grad school in 1976, the year it came out. Established Wilson as one of my biology heros.
It is a bedrock in modern biology, as well as modern sociology. A muct-read for multidisciplinary science believers.
Fascinating and surprisingly easy to read for such a dense and esoteric subject.
Originally published in the '70s, this book is about as controversial as they come. E.O. Wilson specializes in the social networks of ants. Really interesting stuff. Still relevant.
The very controversial presentation of Dr. Wilson's ideas concerning the behavior of all living beings as discussed on the 5/20/08 Lord of the Ants program on NOVA.
As a Lewontin-esq person myself, I was suprized I still enjoyed this book so much.
among the smartest folks of the last hundred years
Groundbreaking at the time, still worth a pickup from the lay reader.
The text book on sociobiology. You should read this book.
It is a textbook so please don't expect a 'page turner' but it is filled to the brim with amazingly helpful information.
