https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2527466.Life_Line
Campbell made this discovery and decision in the summer of 1939 with an unknown 32 year old Navy veteran and first time writer, someone named Robert Anson Heinlein.Dr. Pinero’s life and death predicting machine had far ranging consequences for his clients, for the life insurance industry, and ultimately for himself.Pinero created a machine that could trace the echoes of a person’s life, look far ahead into the pink worm of a human’s existence and see where the line would end.
Heinlein was his first published short story and launched an illustrious career.
Life-Line is the perfect example of his work.
It’s only 20 pages, and yet one of the most compelling short story I’ve read.
Every line is great, every page is oozing with content, and the story is just perfection.The basis of the story is a man who claims he has discovered a way to accurately predict when a person will die.
Overall Life-Line is a solid story, it’s excellent in every way a Heinlein story excels, and is quite worth the short time it takes to read it.
如果有辦法預測自己的死期，你會想要知道答案嗎？ 《生命線》（Life Line）是一部短篇科幻小說。公元1939年，32歲的羅伯特‧海萊因（Robert A. Heinlein）在歷經了因生病而被迫退役以及從政失敗之後，陷入經濟拮据的窘境，為了償還房子的抵押貸款，他決定投稿。一開始他打算參加首獎50美元的業餘寫作比賽，後來轉而把稿子投給《驚奇科幻小說雜誌》（Astounding Stories of Super-science），得到主編約翰‧坎貝爾（John W. Campbell）的賞識，最終以70美元的價格賣出自己的故事，從此開創了長達49年的創作生涯。 這是一個關於預知未來的故事。在30年代的美國，一位科學家發明一台能夠精準預測人的死期的機器，當他把研究公開，迅速引發極大的爭議。許多學者認為他是個騙子，然而在多次試驗後，他的預測的確百分之百精準，屢試不爽；媒體競相報導這項不可思議的發明，也讓這位科學家成了鎂光燈的焦點。 許多人出於無法克制的好奇心，紛紛出錢請科學家幫他們計算死期，當他們得知自己的壽明長度不如預期時，自然就會做出不同的人生選擇。在這一連串效應下，首當其衝的就是保險業：一個人如果知道自己可以活很久，大概不需要保險；如果一個人知道自己即將死去，更不需要保險。於是保險業者控告科學家，雙方在法庭上展開激烈的攻防。可以準確預知死期的機器，對人類社會來說，究竟是祝福，還是詛咒？ 羅伯特‧海萊因寫作最大的特色就是善於用科幻故事來評論社會、時事、政治、宗教等，而這點在他的第一部小說即可看出端倪。《生命線》的核心問題跟歷史文明一樣古老：如果人得知自己精確的死期，他會積極地把握僅存的時光，活出精采的生命，還是放浪形骸，豎起白旗接受命運的審判？科學家與保險業者之間的辯論更是引人深思，說穿了，保險也是依據平均預期壽命和事故發生率而設計的，又何嘗不是一種預期死亡的行為？ 回顧海萊因的創作生涯，《生命線》更是耐人尋味。這是他創作的起點，當年又有誰能預料到他日後會成為第一個打入主流市場的科幻作家，四度奪得雨果獎的最佳長篇小說獎，成為西方科幻文學界的巨人？這一切的一切，都是從開端那一條細線無限延伸出去。 如果能預測自己的死期，說真的，我不想知道。但我知道一件事：最重要的不是人什麼時候死或怎麼死，而是人怎麼活。
This was Heinlein's first published short story, and as they say, the rest is history.
This was written in the 1930's, and is a short story following Doctor Hugo Pinero and his invention which can predict how long a human will live using what is a sort of 'feeler' along one person's life line, which made me think of like an echo/message sent through time travel.
Heinlein doesn't describe that in these exact words, but for the times, this really was an inventive and creative story, and the rest of the stories in the Future History collection are definitely worth checking out.
Book 1 of Robert Heinlein's Future History of the Universe series. These stories take place within the same Universe, but do not need to be read in order, nor do they need to all be read to complete the History. Some are longer than others. Enjoy them collectively or individually, but enjoy.I rather liked this story. Something about a well written short story that leaves a lasting impression on the read. It is the start of a great Future History.Have a GoodReads.
I can see a bright line of influence from here to the contemporary "Machine of Death" series. Marvelous.
Heinlen's first published story and his first of his "future series" does a great job at laying the groundwork for the author's fast pacing and great dialog that he later became known for.
One of Heinlein's first stories, published August 1939. It fits into the "Future History" universe, which kicked off so fast and so strong that John W. Campbell, Jr. coined the term in February 1941 and was already asking for diagrams to explain the interlinking of stories. This first book, part #1 out of an eventual #21, is only 20 pages long and deals with the incredibly fresh clash of a death-predicting machine and life-insurance corporations. I am reading these from the 1967 book "The Past Through Tomorrow" which has almost every single "Future History" story.
It tells the story of a scientist who has worked out a way to predict the date and time of a person's death (though not the manner).
Coincidently, as an additional parlor trick it can also reveal the date and time of a person's birth.As is to be expected, established scientists are not overjoyed by the revelation of this technology and seek to stroke their egos by calling it all sorts of names.
Also displeased: the life insurance company.The inventor, however, shows some humanity in a plot twist that I dare not spoil.A short story, but then in a collection of short stories you knew it was going to be a short story.
CONTENTS:Introduction by Damon KnightLife-LineThe Roads Must RollBlowups HappenThe Man Who Sold the MoonDelilah and the Space-RiggerSpace JockeyRequiemThe Long WatchGentlemen, Be Seated
Life Line is a interesting story about a scientist who has invented a method by which he can predict the time and date of a person's death. It is well written and an overall enjoyable read with a surprise that will certainly catch you looking the other way.
i always wonder if i'd want to know.
Read the anthology. The story was a bit disturbing, but thought provoking.
