https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40865.Planet_of_Adventure
summary: Revolution against the Alien Overlords!Servants of the Wankh finds Adam exploring more of this world as he attempts to carry out a rather eye-rolling plan to gain a starship and flee back to Earth.
I think that Vance is at his best when he describes relaxed water journeys full of contemplation on the topics of the strangeness of life and the fascinating oddness and diversity of human cultures.The Dirdir has Adam entering two very different hunting grounds at the mercy of one very aggressive alien race.
In the time of Heinlein and Asimov, Vance laid down a simmering riff of Stratocaster JIVE with his Tschai books, collected later as The Planet of Adventure.Campy theme park titles aside, The Planet of Adventure books established Vance’s ability to pay tribute to pulp fiction heroes like Edgar Rice Burroughs while transforming the plot heavy, traveling adventurer protagonist tales into something new.
Vance revisited and recast the fantasy hero mold into something new, something relevant for his time.Vance’s writing is witty, well developed and fun.
Science fiction is best when it is allegory and Vance was too good a writer to beat his readers over the head.
Vance was really, really good at this sort of thing.
The mystery of Tschai lies at the very heart of these books.
The characters, of course, are nothing short of delightful, even if most of them are either caricatures or just plain malicious.
To be honest, there isn’t a whole lot of character 'development', but it somehow doesn’t feel like a shortcoming.
It’s all about presentation, and Vance was a true master.There are some dark things hidden beneath the pulpy veneer of this story.
Yet, at the same time, there is a generous helping of dry wit and truly delightful dialogue.
At diferent times I liked reading diferent sort of books.
As young adult I liked historical novel (Dumas' Musketeers).It was a period there I read all science fiction stories I could find.
Now I prefer urban fantasy.And at all this times, at all ages since 1993 I liked to read this book.Because of Tschai and because of Reith."Suppose I return to Earth, what then?
Or all my life will I long for the steppes and seas of Tschai?"That is a quote from this book and I know how Reith is feeling if he is back to Earth.
He is longing for the steppes and seas of Tschai.
The most literate, witty, sophisticated, inventive space opera ever written. Jack Vance, a master in creating believable worlds and societies, excelled himself in this book, comprised of four connected short novels (I regard them all as one long novel, not a series). He tosses off entire elaborate cultures with unmatched ease, and his commentary is as ironic as it is profound. Entertaining, exhilarating, suspenseful, funny, and occasionally horrifying, with a very slashy subtext (Adam/Traz), this book is one of his very best. Classic and classy.
That said, Vance has certainly put his own stamp on it stylistically and that dry wit of his comes through in the dialogue."Servants of the Wankh" - Our hero continues in his quest to find a way of getting home which takes him across continents and oceans and embroils him in intrigue and adventure.
While there are similarities with Edgar Rice Burroughs' "Barsoom" series, these stories are less superficial and Vance makes it very much his own.
Two Earthmen crash on an unknown planet, only one, Adam Reith, survives the ensuing encounter with their reception party, and a struggle begins to locate a replacement ship and return to Earth.I picked up these books after reading about the breakneck pace, the social commentary and alien anthropology, and vivid setting.
It could be argued that it's a bit morally dubious, as Adam Reith basically contemptuously murders and denounces various ancient races for the way they live their lives-it's all a bit Robinson Crusoe shooting the "cannibals"-but to do so is probably to overlook the fact that these are adventure stories.
This one is a bit more of the fantasy realm than my previous read, "The Demon Princes," but is also a collection of several short novels in a series.
Clarke ...- Vance makes nice fun of religious dogmatism.- This book came from the Augusta, Me library, where it was checked out 14 times in 1994.Finished now with #2, "Servant of the Wankh," as Adam Reith displays his kinship with "The Demon Princes" Kirth Gerson by being very resourceful and lucky.
With opposite new friends, taciturn dark stocky Traz and garrulous pale tall Anacho, Reith breaks each alien race apart from their associated imitative "men", and overcomes more villainous allies.
2 Servants of the Wankh Hoping Derl's father will gratefully help Reith return to Earth, the trio set sail for Cath.
Despite Traz and Anacho's urgings, Reith keeps him alive to continue helping with spaceship construction.
(hide spoiler)]4 The Pnume Evil Woudiver drugs and sells Reith to the underground Pnumekin, human servants to the Pnume.
(view spoiler)[ Finally back, Pnume kidnap Zap. Reith gains their freedom by threatening to release secret maps.
I read this book for the first time in English when I was 15 years old (which was not easy since I'm Dutch) and I just keep re-reading it round every 5 years or so. And every time I finish it, I wonder why it's still not made in to a movie. I think it's brilliant.
If it were possible to eat a mile long hot fudge sundae and not get sick, Vance's Planet of Adventure would be the readerly equivalent.
I dig this out and reread it every few years for a time of totally satisfying, zero-calorie action adventure.
For we Vance-lovers (a select breed, to be sure) part of the treat in reading his works is the erudite dialog.
Reminds me of a conversation I read about, wherein several acclaimed science fiction writers of decades past were discussing Vance's unique and stylized mode of dialog.
Each of the four novels in the Planet of Adventure series involve the story of Adam Reith who is marooned on the planet Tschai where four major, intelligent civilizations exist, each ruled by a different species and an enemy of the others.
Reith also learns about the Chasch, Wankh, Dirdir, Pnume and other intelligent beings who inhabit the planet.
How easy it is to offend others, to get into trouble or to be ridiculed when you don't know the expectations and social ground rules of an unfamiliar culture.The second part of the novel involves Reith's interaction with the Wankh culture and his attempt to steal a space ship.
An Earthman (Adam Reith) is marooned on a planet dominated by four alien races.
Each alien race has cultivated a sub-race of humans to serve them.This book is actual four novels that detail Adam Reith's adventures as he tries to escape back to Earth.
In each novel Reith learns a little more about the cruel planet and confronts one of the four alien races.Adam Reith is a fairly likable fellow if not very multidimensional.
He is an imaginative author that likes his characters to be clever and speak to each other with flowery dialogue.
Vance is much more accessible than Wolfe, however.
The story is a series of four action/science fiction stories centered around scout Adam Reith, the only surviving member of a spaceship that has journeyed to the distant planet of Tschai to investigate a distress signal.
The spaceship is destroyed and his scout ship is shot down and his partner slaughtered by the one of the five races on the planet.
Adam uses his sensibility and cunning to help men oppressed by the one race and one race oppressed by men.
He befriends the leader of the nomads and a human running from prosecution, and the three travel the planet together trying to help Adam get back to earth.
Planet of Adventure is a tightly connected series of four novellas, similar to "Tales of Dying Earth" (which may be the best pure fantasy adventure books ever).
As Reith discovers more about the planet, he becomes a catalyst that disrupts everything around him.And Vance is always so damn funny.
But reading a Jack Vance book is to go on an adventure and I suppose that's why this collection was named the insanely straightforward "Planet of Adventure" in the first place.
Adventure books with such well-imagined worlds are hard to find, which, perhaps, is why the title wasn't taken already.
The deeper I got into this series, the more I loved it. Amazing world building and depictions of beautiful and bizarre alien landscapes. Plus nonstop action and adventure to boot. This is a pulp series, no doubt, but a classic.
It never gets old, nor do I ever feel the need to skim or skip ahead.The plot is as straightforward as anything you will ever read.
Then, instead of seeing it all from a distance and then getting close enough to pick out the gist of the story or recognize elements here and there so that when you finally get to the beginning you can walk the mile with a fairly good idea of what it's all about, you start at the beginning...
But this is the ONLY book I recommend with an eye towards rereading.
This tetralogy of short science fiction novels is also one continuous story, nowadays published as a single-volume omnibus.
Over the course of the novel Reith must deal with threats from all four of the intelligent alien races found there while attempting to build or steal a spacecraft in which to depart.The plotting here is more random and episodic than in the Cadwal series.
It reads like a serial potboiler collected into a single volume, although it was never published as one.
The girl has vouched for her father's gratitude, which should simplify matters."   "Formally the gratitude will exist.
Фюю разгеле. Много слаба. Супер наивна, мегаплоски герои, слаб уърлдбилдинг. Вярно, че е писана 68-ма година, но това не е оправдание. И Замъкът на Лорд Валънтайн е на повече от 30 години и жанра е сходен, но е на светлинни години от тази. Джак Ванс е натъпкал на планетата безброй раси и човешки племена- стари часки, зелени часки, сини часки, часкоиди, дирдири, уонки, пнуми, пнумеци, фунги и тн. и тн, но научаваме много малко за тях. За съжаление богат свят не се прави просто като кажеш- я гледайте колко много екзотични имена съм измислил.
Wonderful and absorbing adventure! Well drawn characters
Knížky Jacka Vanceho bych si rád přečetl v češtině, protože díky jeho slabosti pro anglické archaismy to fakt není lehké čtení...
Kromě mě by si to asi už moc lidí nekoupilo.
(Jinak jsou to ale své naprosté protiklady.) Je to sice sci-fi, ale nějakým technickým zázemím a vysvětlováním se autor moc nezatěžuje.
Hlavní hrdina coby jediný pozemšťan přežije ztroskotání na cizí planetě a jeho jediným cílem je postavit kosmickou loď a vrátit se zpátky.
Když se tu objeví objekt hrdinových milostných tužeb, hned v druhé knize podlehne vražednému šílenství, zabije pár lidí a spáchá, téměř mimochodem, sebevraždu - aby se to už dál neřešilo a jelo se dál.
Quintessential rip-roaring Vance, detailing the adventures of stranded space explorer Adam Reith on a far flung planet where an array of alien races strive for dominance along with their subjugated human underlings.
The usual Vance strengths are in full effect- namely the elegant, wry, ornate dialogue, the great character names and brilliantly realised social structures.
I was particularly taken by the Emblem men, a tribe whom Reith first encounters who each wear hereditary emblems from which the wearer derives their personality and whose grudges with rival emblems they inherit.
Reith's a resourceful if enigmatic protagonist, and this being early Vance we learn precious little about his inner life.
Elevator pitch: Dude crashes on planet and has adventures (and by "adventures" I mean, learns about fictional cultural things).I know, I know...
you'd think I'd have enjoyed this more because I really like the John Carter stories and Conan and such.
And I want much more out the genre that the classics just don't have.
John Carter and Conan are so wildly out there that they enter the realm of mythology and so I can forgive things, and get lost in the ridiculous.
However, some of the classics like this I just can't look past the lack of characterization, lack of story, the racism, and misogyny.
I re-read this after more than 20 years and I am so happy that I still enjoyed it.
It is a classic Jack Vance fantasy adventure with a very beautifully drawn world, a host of uncomplicated characters and an entirely predictable plot that moves at a great pace.
Of course it doesn’t pretend to be high literature, it doesn’t have multiple plot twists, probably quite a few holes, and it is all thoroughly pulp-fiction fare.
But it is enjoyable to read and it transported me away to the wonderful world of Tschai every time I picked it up.
For old times sake this deserves 5 stars for me.
Avec le cycle de Tschaï, Jack Vance déploie beaucoup d'inventivité pour créer des peuples humains et des races extraterrestres tous plus étranges et déroutants les uns que les autres, de par leur apparence, mais aussi leurs coutumes, leurs mythes et leur histoire.
Le Terrien Adam Reith, seul survivant de l'Explorateur IV détruit par les habitants de Tschaï, va devoir confronter tour à tour les Chasch, les Wankh, les Dirdir et les Pnume afin de pouvoir rentrer chez lui.
Ce cadre nous permet de découvrir l'aspect complètement extravagant de la planète Tschaï, où tout ou presque est exacerbé, de la taille des épées aux passions des personnages.
Why is this not a 4 movie + series?? then prequels? Vance has a slight tinge of pro capitalism.....ever so slight.....I think Vance might be best author ever.Only AE van Vogt, robert e howard, and michael moorcock when he is on with elric corum hawkmoon even compete.wow!! oh and vance's dying earth inspired game dungeons and dragons :)
Bon livre d'aventures. Compilation des 4 tomes, mais dans mon cas lue en une seule fois (une pause aurait été salvatrice, vue la longueur). Le Planet Opera est un genre à part et particulier qui me correspond moins. Cela dit, ce roman n'en reste pas moins très riche et les concepts de cette planète sont assez intéressants.
¿Quiere saber más de esta tetralogía, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
Reread it recently, not in this edition but in a Dutch translation. Takes me back to my younger self, who enjoyed Vance as a eminent story-teller. The book hasn't dated in the least, and it still surpasses much of his later work. If I learned to tell fantastic tales, it is from Vance.
The master work.The most excellent of all! Nothing so rich and imaginative has ever been written in this genre. The suspense winds through a never ending series of places and characters glued together by unlikely friends surmounting impossible circumstance...
