https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/610718.Jennie
To learn pity for those unwanted, for those crying in the cold rain while no one cares for them.If I ask you - are you a good person, you'll answer - yes.
If you read this book and I ask again - I hope you'll answer "I will become one, I promise".5 out of 5.
I love this.
Bless Gallico, he made me a better person.
He made the cat in me love people.
You can stop reading now, because this is one of those books, and you won't understand.I didn't own this book -- I borrowed it from the library when I was seven or eight years old.
Looking back on that, I'm pretty impressed with my reading vocabulary, because this book assumes that children of that age have a very extensive vocabulary.
Of course, when this book was written, back in the 1940's, that was probably true.Peter is a little 8-year-old boy who loves cats.
I started to look for it in my early 20's, because I wanted to buy it for my children to read.
Gallico apparently enjoyed that exercise: he wrote a book in 1964 called "The Silent Miaow" - "translated from the feline" - a cat's guide to how to obtain, captivate and dcminate a human family.
What I found most delightful about "Jennie" is the quality of its work with human feelings.
"Jennie" offers memorable characters and situations which can help children name and understand their feelings and reflect on what to do with them in their words, behavior and relationships.
Those that deserve to be read and loved and cherished and sought after both when you're a kid and an adult, in any and every century.
Movies, as well as electronic gadgets, have pretty much replaced that incredible joy of just diving deep into the world of a book.
I've heard kids say things like 'What's the point of reading anyway?
Of course I'm speaking of the books like 'Jennie' - books that sustain you and strengthen you, books that teach you how to be human.
He longs for a cat of his own, but his mother can't be bothered with such things.
He suddenly finds that he's turned into a white cat and his nanny tosses him out of the house.
His adventures begin because he doesn't know the first thing about being a cat and Jennie takes him under her wing, so to speak, to teach him everything that a cat ought to know.
The story is by turns funny, sad, poignant, and riveting, as you follow them on their adventures and wonder if Peter will ever make it back home.
This book made me cry like few others ever have. It's a beautiful story with a bittersweet ending. It speaks to the loneliness, the piteous abuse and abandonment of the forgotten, and the sweetness of home, love, and family.
Would you believe I was named after this book. My mum read it to us as kids when I was small :)
I felt nostalgic as I read THE ABANDONED, because it has that timeless quality of the other great books of children's literature.
The text was just begging for me to read it aloud.THE ABANDONED is the story of Peter, a young boy who wakes up as a cat after being hit by a truck.
In fact, THE ABANDONED is a great choice for kids who have outgrown FOUR LITTLE KITTENS.Fortunately, there is nothing saccharine about THE ABANDONED.
And any kid who loves stories about animals will devour THE ABANDONED.
I kid you not, I was about to give this a 5 stars rating.
- For such an imaginative book this has very realistic characters- Almost all the facts about cat in this book are true.
- I hate sudden appearance of affection rival in book ending.- And don't tell me it's love rival because the more I thought about it the more I feel sick that the main characters of this book are an 8 yo boy and an adult female cat.
I can just kick every boy when they are being boys.Bottom note: actually I'm very tempted to just give this a 2 stars, but I'm a cat lover.
Bored one day as a child, my mother recommended that I read this book. Wisely, she didn't tell me what it was about, or I might never have opened it. Instead, she simply gave me the book, and I began to read. What a terrific flight of fancy! In short, a boy who yearns for a pet cat, but is not permitted one, suffers an accident, and wakes up to find himself in a cat's body. His adventures that follow are engrossing, entertaining, and even from time to time, thrilling. Very satisfying ending also.
I really like Paul Gallico’s writing! He tells amazing stories, and I very much enjoyed this one about a little boy who turned into a cat. Sounds strange to describe it that way, but it was a wonderful cat story and will be appreciated by anyone who loves cats!
I read this book long ago and still think about it. A wonderful book for cat-lovers in particular - and for anyone dealing with feelings of being an outsider, of the loneliness of being different. Highly recommend.
(I remember reading Black Beauty when I was young, and going to my mother to ask what a particularly disturbing image of beaten-horse-biology meant, to which she immediately teared up and quoted me word-for-word the passage, and we both cried the hour away...) So, maybe that's why I didn't read Jennie back then.However, I probably would have survived -- we are still requiring grade-school children to read Where the Red Fern Grows, aren't we?
-- and I think I would let young children read this book as long as someone was there to spend a lot of time answering questions and drying tears and offering lots of chocolate.
I don't remember the last time I was so deeply moved by a book.
It's a profound, gripping tale about a boy who turns into a cat, and his experience of the world.
It's not a simplistic children's novel and it's not just about cats.
I won't spoil it by saying any more - other than it's worth every minute of your life that you spent reading and thinking about it.P.S. The author is American, the book was first published in 1950 and contains a couple of race-related terms which nowadays would be considered inappropriate.
I'm sure they were not meant to be offensive here, and I don't think they were offensive at the time.
This book's title in the UK is "Jennie". It's a delightful tale about a little boy who sort of becomes a cat and is taught how to behave like one by a wandering feline. This is one book I've re-read and might do so again. I lent it to a Brit friend and he did have one negative comment: "Come, come, now, Mr Gallico -- since when has Glasgow been the capital of Scotland and Edinburgh 'Provincial'? Otherwise he loved the book. One memorable piece of advice about Cat behaviour -- "When in doubt, wash."
Reading this as a 19 year old girl all I can say is that this book is appropriate for all ages.
It was wonderful, beautiful and outstanding.
I've never read a book as great.
Jennie is one of my favorite novels, Paul Gallico being a wonderful author.
The ending was by far the most excruciating pain I've ever been in, it was utterly sad and I cannot find a book which can make me weep so much as this one has.
I cried for hours and I couldn't sleep as all I wanted to do was kiss Jennie Baldrin and hold Peter in my arms.
Thank you Paul Gallico.
THIS IS ONE OF THE BEST BOOKS EVER!! But I must say, it was a little sad at the ending! How could the author do that? Was Jennie that black and white cat? It has to be!!! I miss Jennie so much!!! It is a sweet and touching book that is so wonderfully made. but I don't get why they were all calling each other "dear." That had been a little definitely creepy. I would recommend this book to anyone who likes touching, cute literature because it is one of the sweetest!
What if The Wizard of Oz had been set in post-war London? Paul Gallico's charming book employs the same trope: a trauma leads to a total change, and the hero must navigate an entirely new world. Here Peter is transformed into a cat after bing hit by a bus. With his gentle guide and companion, the unforgettable Jenny Baldrin, he becomes a hero, losing his life to save his friend - and then to wake up back in his own bed with his parents and nurse.A winning story, beautifully written.
It might be kiddie lit, but I'm a sucker for a book in which cats teach each other craft and use terms like "paw work" and "improvement in the waggle." It's like watching a poetry workshop but much more fun. Not for the mice or rats, I suppose. But for the reader. And he knows more about cats than Desmond Morris. Because some things Desmond couldn't explain in CAT WATCHING do get explained here. So there, IN YOUR FACE, DESMOND! Your kids might like this book.
very nice story of a little boy who turns into a cat, gets kicked out of his home, goes to the docks in london, meets Jennie, a street-wise kitty, works passage to Glasgow on a ship, goes back to london, and i'm not telling what happens then. one very interesting thing is how mature and well written this young persons novel is compared to the drek written today for young people. no wonder.....
This is the unusual story of a young boy living in London, who likes cats, and through a strange set of circumstances becomes one. Paul Gallico weaves a feline tale of adventure and love that tends to feel very real when reading it, but of course it couldn’t happen, could it?Wonderfully written with lots of detail. The New York Review Children’s Collection, Copyright 1950.
This book is fantastic. It's extremely well written and understands cats, but it also understands emotions and complex feelings of… people who turn into cats and their relationships with cats who were born that way.
I read this book some 15 years ago and enjoyed it so much that I am now reading it again, this time aloud (trying to do the accents indicated) as a bedtime story for my son. Highly recommend it! It's even better than I remembered.
I read this book many many years ago but to this day I still remember insights gained from it, such as "when in doubt, wash' and the "leg of lamb" position of washing. Gallico captured "Catness" perfectly, as any cat lover will attest.
Lovely one for cat lovers and lone wolves. I return to this again and again.
When he mentions Nanny not liking cats, Jennie is philosophical about that: ‘There are people who don’t, and we can understand and respect them for it.
It’s the people who love us, or say they love us and then hurt us, who…’ (p34)One of Jennie’s useful (and amusing) tips is that ‘Whatever the situation, whatever difficulty you may be in, you can’t go wrong if you wash.’ (p38) ‘Peter, who like all boys had no objection to being reasonably clean, but not too clean, saw the problem of washing looming up large and threatening to occupy all of his time.
When reading dated books, sometimes one must look past certain past held beliefs, that today would be seen as completely wrong-headed and disgusting.
Of course it is completely classist, racist and includes many painfully bad caricatures, which might cause modern readers to cringe.
The book is so chock full of this bizarre and frankly not a little creepy imagery involving cats, one of whom we know is actually a little boy.
(We have just adopted two cats, one of them a female tabby not dissimilar to Jennie, and my daughter was particularly fascinated to understand their behaviour and habits.)I loved the little details of everyday life from this time, which has some of the grit of street life but presented with a light enough touch for my daughter not to be overwhelmed.
I read Gallico to be saying with the ending that Jennie was Peter's own self-love and resilience personified.
She was a bit baffled at what happened to Jennie, but kind of vaguely satisfied that Peter got his parents back and got a cat.
The dialogue was one of the worst parts for me.If you read this line, from one character to another asking her to continue her story, how would you picture the speaker?"Jennie dear--do you think perhaps you might go on now?"I hear that as coming from an adult, an older male British man.
(I could see it coming from a woman as well, if I hadn't known the character speaking was male.) The character is an 8 year old boy.I don't know if it was an issue with British vs American (maybe British children do speak like that?), or maybe kids in 1950 (when this was published) spoke like that, or perhaps Gallico just didn't write dialogue well.
He desperately wants a cat to love and keep him company because of his loneliness.
Nanny discovers this disgusting beast in Peter 19s bed and grabs him by the scruff of the neck and tosses him outside onto the street.
Peter feeling even more distressed, unfortunately, finds out that the outside world that he has been cast into can be just as cruel as the inside world from which he came.
Jennie, a street-smart cat, befriends Peter and mentors him in cat etiquette and cat survival 101.
