https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/766020.The_Rainbow_Fish
I'm always on the look-out for new, well-written children's books for my son.
The Rainbow Fish is a story about a spectacular fish with amazing scales.
The Rainbow fish goes on a journey to discover why the other fish don't like him.The Rainbow Fish is soon told by the octopus that it is because he won't share his amazing scales.
The Rainbow Fish then goes to the other fish and gives them his scales.
Or maybe I'm just wondering what the world would be like if all the Rainbow Fish gave away their pretty scales until there weren't any Rainbow Fish anymore...Just think...
Nice little book that teaches sharing, or subtle liberal socialist propaganda which teaches to give away all and anything special about yourself or what you have for the betterment of the whole?You might think I'm being ridiculous, but I was a bit alarmed at this children's book when a professor in a teaching class read it to us aloud.
Rainbow fish is no longer special, but is happier having given this unique characteristic away because the other fish are now happy and accepting of him.Are you kidding me?
This is basically telling kids that if they have something special, they should share it so that everyone is equal.
I've just read a one-star review of this book that was, to me, highly amusing.
It has been one-starred because the reviewer thinks it is nothing but socialist propaganda, in other words it's going to lead toddlers and little children straight down the Red Road to Communism.
I'm pretty sure the reviewer is American since no one in Europe would actually care whether it was socialist propaganda or not, socialism being a perfectly acceptable political philosophy there.
Indeed many governments have been socialist, and why not?
It's only another variant of capitalism as practised.Anyway, it was an enjoyable review so if you'd like to read it for yourself it's here Leila's review
2 Rainbow Fish ★'s *A BEAUTIFUL book that has an UGLY message!* I absolutely loved this book when I was in elementary school.
I thought it was a book that teaches kids the fundamentals in sharing and making friends and giving of oneself.
The little Rainbow Fish basically has to give away EVERYTHING that makes him uniquely special so that all the other fish will be his friend.
This is giving up everything that makes you-you, to cut yourself into pieces, and then give them away--because other fish want what you have.
How on earth is this fair or giving young kids the right message?
all I remember is reading this over, and over, and over, and  over  as a child. don’t remember what it’s about, but I loved it.
Or: How to Buy Friends Who Were Jealous of YouDon't get me wrong, I'm all for teaching kids to share and to not act like little snots. But there's something disturbing in the idea that Rainbow Fish has to give away all but one of his beautiful sparkly scales (toys, possessions) to the other jealous fishies so they'll be his friends.
I'm all into sharing and stuff, but this little guy was basically told that he had to give away everything that made him special just so other fish wouldn't be jealous and mean. Is this fair? Heck no! Reminds me of one of my favorite lines from The Incredibles, when Dash says something along the lines of, "If everybody's special, then NOBODY is."
This is another one of the books that horrified me when I read it to a younger family member without pre-reading.
I still can't believe how popular this book is with the self-crippling message it espouses.
Everyone says, this is all about sharing and isn't that wonderful.
We all want children to learn the value of community and sharing.
That's not this book's message.THIS isn't sharing.
It is one of the most horrifying conformist and self-sacrificing books I've read and it is geared to children!Teaches children to be ashamed of themselves and change who they are to make other people happy.
It's a pretty book that hides an ugly message.
A chilling tale about a young fish who learns that no one will ever like him--until he gives up the thing that makes him unique and becomes just like everyone else.Of a genre with The Giving Tree and the stalker classic Love You Forever.

I'm fairly hard pressed to truly dislike a children's book, but the message of this story is awful.
In order to be accepted, the rainbow fish must give up all of his scales to bribe the other fish to be his friends.
What kind of message does this send to a child?
I could see a child, having experienced unkind treatment, deciding to give away all her favorite toys trying to become popular on the playground based on the "lesson" in this story.
This story is not about sharing.
It is about buying the love of others, conformity, and making poor choices in friends.
Read this with my daughter. The sparkly fins on the fish were cute and caught her attention and story was a good one about how to share with others and how it will make you happy.
I just reread this with my sister in Barnes and Noble today!
Now, even though I appreciate the book's message that being beautiful doesn't excuse rudeness, I have a problem with how the Rainbow Fish has to give away his scales to be redeemed.
The lesson shouldn't necessarily be to give away something you have that makes you special (not really possible to give away beauty in real life, anyways); rather, it should be to respect other people who may not have the same qualities as you and are special in other ways.
Still giving this book a 4 because nostalgia ;)
My wife and I had previously discussed the way this kids book makes us feel uncomfortable.
If the story was about a rainbow fish who voluntarily decided to donate his scales to enrich the lives of his friends, I'd be well on-board with that.
and that's not what we want to teach our kids.So, a 1-star from me dragged up to a 2-star by the boy's enthusiasm for all things rainbow-fishy...
Jesus tells him to go and sell everything he owns, and give to the poor, but the rich man goes away sad, because he cannot part with his idol of wealth.
When the Octopus tells him he must give them away, Rainbow Fish, like the rich man, balks and says, "I can't..." But eventually he learns that his worth is not in outward adornments, but in inner virtues: "Where your treasure is, there will your heart be also." Plus it's shiny...
Now, the Rainbow Fish had scales that were shiny.something something and act like a hiney.the plain fishes gave up asking him to play,something rude something, he swam away.Later a plain fish requested a scale"absolutely not," he sputtered, turning pale."they're mine.
I'll give away all but one!THAT will make up for me being a tool!" But before he could act, Sylvester McMonkey McBean tootled through and said "I'll just take those if you please." Shoving them through his shiny scale shredder machine, he yelled over the noise, "This one's on the house.
So this special and unique fish has to give away his scales in order to have friends and be liked by the others? I don't think so -_- Ho about liking him for who he is? No, right? Unless he "shares" his scales with everyone, he will be an outcast! Yay! Ugh.
You remember them - some company would take over your school library for the week and everyday you'd be asked to walk around and look at all the books you couldn't afford.
We went early Friday morning, Papa convincing the secretary that we should be able to go down to the library early.
I literally bounced the entire way down the hall, so excited to finally own The Rainbow Fish.
I did own eventually own Rainbow Fish - after checking it out from the library about 6 times.
When I was small, I was absolutely enchanted with Rainbow Fish.
I personally love this book, despite the fact that other people are so outraged by it. I find it kind of funny that people seem to be reaching for meanings, maybe as a means to back up their own personal feelings about things. Anyways.... The Rainbow Fish is very vain and thinks he's better than the other fish because he is so beautiful. He learns that being the most beautiful fish is not what is really important. I won't spoil it, but I think it's a great book and teaches valuable lessons.
But one day, a little blue fish asks Rainbow Fish for one of his shiny scales.
Rainbow Fish, understandably thrown, says "NO, those are part of my body, and you can't have one." The little blue fish is sad.
Rainbow Fish didn't feel comfortable with Little Blue Fish's request and now he's suffering social castigation for it." Rainbow Fish asks an octopus how to be happy, and the octopus wisely tells him she can't give him the secret to happiness.
The little blue fish comes back.
The little fish likes him now!
Now that Rainbow Fish has done something he was uncomfortable with, everyone thinks he's great!
Last week, the Librarian of Congress Dr. Carla Hayden visited our library! While she was here, she led a special storytime for students from the Mississippi School for the Deaf. The Rainbow Fish is one of her favorites and the book she chose to read to the kids. The kids loved this tale about a bright and fancy fish who learned a valuable lesson about making friends and sharing. They also loved receiving their own copies of the book to commemorate the occasion. This was pretty much the best storytime ever!
As well has having literacy value, the cross-curricular links of this book include Drama, Maths, Science, Art and Design and Social and Emotional aspects of Learning (SEAL)/PSHE.
Art and Design could focus on creating a 3D display/role play area as well as decorating fish using techniques of collage and also drawing underwater scenes using wax resist techniques.Finally this is a good resource to use for discussing sharing and friendship.
It is definitely a good book to use in the EYFS to encourage children to share.With its beautiful pictures and wonderful moral, this book is of value in the classroom.
A lot of people rave over this one. Yes, it is true that the sparkly illustrations are eye-catching. However, the storyline is so common it has become rather trite. We get it okay? There's more to beauty than what's on the outside. Blah, blah, blah. Yet the irony is that the reason this book is so popular is precisely because of its beautiful illustrations.
I heard this book read aloud for the first time at a summer camp. A good friend then bought it for me as a birthday gift. It is a beautiful story about the joy that comes from giving of yourself to others.
read it as often as possible to as many people as possible.....everybody gets a piece of beauty.....everyone is sharing.....everybody is friends....but the real reason i like the book so much is there is something shiny on every page.....yeah...the truthis finally out
Nog steeds mijn favoriete prentenboek ever!
I'm not too sure about everyone else, but this book seems to remind me of another book about an old man who learns that wealth means nothing if you have no one to share it with AND the only way to make friends is to be kind.
Teaching our children to share with those who don't have much isn't creating a communist society where there are no pretty rainbow fish.
It's creating a society where we help that little fish who is less fortunate than us.
Perhaps the people making these reviews should look at the book more closely, instead of thinking every author is trying to brainwash your children with politics.
In the end, the rainbow fish learned that kindness is very important, and that sharing her beautiful shiny scales helped build new friendships.
This book attracts readers of a wide age range as it delivers a simplistic message which can be applied to many children.
The Rainbow fish could also be read to children in KS1, to help develop retrieval skills.
Also the book could be used as a tool to consider issues relating to friendship and sharing, and its importance and impact on others.
The book could also be used for children in KS2 by developing their role-play and performance skills, getting across the message that sharing is caring.
It tells the story of a fish who has lovely glittery scales but has no friends as the other fish are so jealous of his beauty.
In order for the other fish to like him, he must give away all of his lovely scales.
Only when they have gained a share of his scales will the other fish make friends with him.
However, having read the story to a reception class I acknowledge that it can spark some good discussion and reflection around the area of sharing and friendship and it can also be used to demonstrate that beauty is not important.
This book to me is a very important one, because it teaches children about having beauty within and confidence in yourself.
Not only that, but it also teaches to the topic of making friends.
As children, it often can become difficult for students to make friends, because of what they look like or what they may have.
Others can be jealous of those things and treat you differently, but once you are confident in yourself, it helps others to be more accepting and comfortable around you.
And you are more likely to make friends.
And it also teaches children about the ocean and what kinds of animals live in the ocean.
