https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/83221.Mr_Darcy_Takes_a_Wife
We want to see them in love.
We want to see them live their happily-ever-after.
I don't know about you, but I would happily read about Valek and Yelena setting up house and living in domestic bliss.
It's love!The same goes for Darcy and Elizabeth.
As I said, readers are stupid when it cones to their OTPs. That, my friends, is why I read Pride and Prejudice fan fiction.
This book has so many haters and I don't even care.
Darcy and Elizabeth do nothing but fuck like bunnies throughout the book.
They're my OTPs. That's all I want.
This book is so BAD it is unintentionally funny.
My favorite sentences so far:"Propitious fortune allowed her to descry whom the crepuscular light yielded.""The single unseemliness bechanced in her dressing room.""Whilst still partaking of their meal, Darcy apologised unnecessarily upon the austere winter dressing of his county.""In the pristine morning light, it was not an inquisition of her configuration he sought (for he had, upon a few occasions long past, perused a womanly portal)."Believe me, folks, the whole thing reads like this.
If you want a good laugh, go there for this book and search on the term "nether." The excerpts are exquisite.
Sex (which was done very stupidly) is on every other page and the characters have been given new, and less flattering backgrounds.
Mr. Darcy is a "well endowed" sex god, who has been "spreading his love" around since he was 16.
Austen's characters deserve so much better than this.The author seems to have spent some time trying to understand the vocabulary of Austen's time and then dumped every word she knew into every other sentence.
And as a note to the author, if I was pompous enough to try to fix Austen's flaws, I might have tried to write something a little better than flowery smut.
I'm not going to go after specific examples, because I would never *stop,* but I would like to take this opportunity to introduce Ms. Berdoll to the word "between." Honey, no one is torn betwixt two lovers, they're not betwixt a rock and a hard place, and nobody sits betwixt Bob and Sally at dinner.
and the vague allusion to one of Austen's letters, I wouldn't even believe that Ms. Berdoll has read any of Austen's work.
And speaking of research (No, I'm NOT done yet!), it probably wouldn't have killed Ms. Berdoll to, you know, do some of that.
You answer might determine whether or not you would enjoy Mr. Darcy Takes a Wife, a book that tries to hide the fact that it is a romance novel by pretending that it might have been imagined by Jane Austen.I can’t decide if this is a bad book or not.
And, you know … doing it.Mr. Darcy Takes a Wife begins with a note from the author about what a prude Jane Austen was.
You are not Jane Austen, you don’t live in olden times – none of us are so confused to believe any of that, so I’m pretty sure you can use the modern spelling.Right now, my scales are tipping towards the idea that this book sucks.
Someone PLEASE, for the love of god, take away Linda Berdoll's thesaurus.
She uses it like holy water to ward off her sinfully atrocious plot and subplots.
"gel", "chit", "the ton," "the season") should only remain in lower-brow, period romance novels.
Not to speak against insipid, salacious romance novels, I am a fan; however Berdoll managed to make a complete mockery of Jane Austen's timeless classic.
She has sullied the name of Elizabeth Bennett with talk of quivering manhoods and trembling bosoms and I am sure Austen has made 20 revolutions in her grave by now.
Unlike the yawn-inducing  Mr. Knightly's Diary this took great liberties with the plot, taking off where the original leaves off.
But one of my main complaints with Mr. Knightly's Diary is that it was a true-to-the-original retelling from a different point of view and exposed a re-imagined side of Knightly that was really unlikable.
This shares none of the plot of the original, but is true to who Austen's characters were in the original.
I know this book has had TERRIBLE reviews on Goodreads, but I thought it was a fun page-turner with a surprising amount of integrity to Austen's original vision.
4 Delightful Stars.  So this book is pretty much a fan faction of what happens with Mr. and Mrs. Darcy after their happy ending in the original book. Since Jane Austen did quite long ago and is not alive to tell herself what happens next, some author decide to create their story themselves. And Kudos for making it sexy!! I’m not telling the story, because c’mon, what living person doesn’t know what this book is all about? I’ve read Pride & Prejudice for the first time when I was 7 years old
I’m not telling the story, because c’mon, what living person doesn’t know what this book is all about?
I’ve re-read it countless times, until the point of being able to quote some parts of it, and still today is my favorite book.
People close to me are always surprised how I can read the same thing over and over again, but f they don’t know the beauty of this book, well, that’s on them.
(hide spoiler)]Love Triangle:  (view spoiler)[No.
(hide spoiler)]Cheating:  (view spoiler)[ No.
(hide spoiler)]HEA: 	(view spoiler)[ Yes.
Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaah!
Yes, a trashy book can be satisfying indeed.
Mr. Darcy Takes a Wife filled a massive void in my life: what the heck happens to Darcy and Elizabeth after Pride and Prejudice????I have no idea how many times I've read Pride and Prejudice.
Berdoll's book has offended many Austen "purists", but I think she did a great service to those of us who are incurably, let's say, imaginative about the future lives of Darcy and Lizzie.
She clearly loves the story and the characters dearly.So, once I finished this book, I immediately read it again.
I'm sure I will read this book again, maybe every five years or so.
Please, don't read this book, or, if you feel compelled to, please don't tell me you did unless it is with the intent to vent your anger and frustration that such a travesty was ever published.
If you do not feel highly protective of Darcy, Lizzie, Jane Austen, and all her writing stands for, you might get some enjoyment out of this book.
One of the Brontes once said that Austen wrote about a chaste kiss because she was smart enough to write only what she herself knew about...Berdoll really takes it from there.
Darcy and Elizabeth have a very passionate relationship (as we'd all hoped) but even I, who have been around the block a time or two, found myself muttering, "Geez, you two, take a break and have a spot o'tea." Once you get past the fact that this is supposed to be an Austen-like sequel, it really shapes up to be quite a fun story.
One thing Berdoll gets dead-on is Mrs. Bennet.
Many Austen fans hate Mr. Darcy takes a wife because they think it’s nothing like Pride and Prejudice.
I disagree.Jane Austen’s ability to poke fun at herself and her society is reflected in Berdoll.
The forward quotes Charlotte Bronte saying Austen couldn’t write past the wedding because she herself knew nothing about the physical pleasure that comes after.
Berdoll seems to take this quote as a challenge.
If you are an Austen fan because she tells a good story then read this book.
All in all I think it’s a fun book that Jane Austen herself would have enjoyed.
So not in the same vein as Austen, but boy, oh boy, did it satisfy my smutty side! The carriage ride from the wedding to Pemberly about shocked my P&P virginal ears! The rest of the story was gritty and a little dirty and perfect.
I have to think too that Austen would not have approved of someone messing with her characters, but then, what author does?The basic elements are the same, Darcy remains the quintessential hero and Elizabeth is as endearingly modern as ever.
And although deep down I know that the Elizabeth and Darcy in this story are not the ones that I have come to know and love, I easily put that aside.My Darcy Takes a Wife is basically glorified fan fic ...
and you should if you love the original and ever dreamed of where our beloved Darcys ended up.
Sex (which was done very stupidly) is on every other page and the characters have been given new, and less flattering backgrounds.
Mr. Darcy is a "well endowed" sex god, who has been "spreading his love" around since he was 16.
Austen's characters deserve so much better than this.
This book starts with a slam on Austen from Bronte.
And as a note to the author, if I was pompous enough to try to fix Austen's flaws, I might have tried to write something a little better than flowery smut.
Note: these are all from the first page (of 47) of reviews, as I really can't take reading any more.I'm embarrassed to admit it--this was a totally enjoyable book (Susan).
No one will ever write like her again, so we better just buck up and admit that any book using the same characters and purporting to tell their story certainly will not be anything near a Jane Austen novel (Martha).
And, finally, (this is me not resisting some snipery): "Horrible sex scenes that have nothing in common with what we would expect from Lizzie and Darcy after P&P" (Nicole)?
I have high tolerance for most P&P fan fiction but this one was TERRIBLE! The idea was to make it a spicy version (sort of what happens after they married) but the "author" used a very convoluted style of writing with weird words all over. For example:Propitious fortune allowed her to descry whom the crepuscular light yielded.WTH is that supposed to even mean?Then she used some words that I even doubted were real, which I later confirmed when I looked for "discaution" in the dictionary and didn't find it. That proved just too much for me.DNF
The author clearly misses what makes Elizabeth and Darcy who they are, and has twisted them into what she wants them to be.
It reads like she sat there with a Regency era thesaurus to enhance the "historical" nature of the novel, in an attempt to legitimize a plot that's littered with pure smut.
It makes me appreciate the ones written by Elizabeth Aston even more, largely because she doesn't touch the characters of Elizabeth and Darcy, and only refers to them as they relate to the characters in her own stories.
Cori has written a very accurate review that should be checked out if you are thinking of reading this.
Of course nothing equals Jane Austen's writing, but since I wanted a peek into what happens to Elizabeth and Darcy this is a guilty pleasure (that is best read with your husband)
I got about 20 pages in before I threw the book in the trash.
The author's vain attempt at writing with the understanding and breadth of the early 19th century Jane Austen was irritating and disappointing.
According to this author, all early 19th conversations started with the word "Pray", and her authorial narrations included multi-syllabic nonsense (i.e. indubitably).
Part of the allure and passion that comes from a book like Pride and Prejudice is the lack of such blatant carnal gratification.
Although never very far away, it is quietly recognized as part of passion, not the whole of it.
What is up with all the vocabs?? I get it, it was meant to 'seem' like regency era language but seriously this is not ANY era language.Too distracting.
Why, oh why, do I keep reading books that propose to be sequels to "Pride and Prejudice"?
I love the original so much that reading all these imitations is the literary equivalent of watching a good friend being beaten up and not doing anything about it.ANyway.
And they have sex.
Oh, boy, do they have sex.
Instead of Austen's witty comedy of manners, this is a soap-operatic dramafest, with bastardy, rape, blackmail, stillbirths, adultery, and all sorts of stuff that might have made for an okay romance novel if the author hadn't tried to duplicate "Pride and Prejudice." As it is, it's grim.
Very, very grim.
So therefore, I am going to open my mind and treat this book as an stand alone and not compare to Jane Austen's novel.
This goes into much more detail of Charlotte's discontent of not being a romantic woman and choosing to be practical woman for the time.The book in the beginning is rather intense with Darcy and Elizabeth on their honeymoon.
But once you get to the middle of the book, everything seems to simmer down to a normal level and the sex scenes are subdued incredibly and that is when I found the author to relax into her story telling a better.I too am a purist of Jane Austen.
This novel is populated with caricatures--Charlotte Collins ghosting around with dead eyes, Mrs. Bennet screaming everything all the time, Darcy the world's greatest lover and Bingley the most clueless.
Elizabeth Bennet isn't us, and she isn't Jane Austen either; she's a part of her world, not a caustic observer.
If the sum of her relationship with her mother really were that Lizzy imagined stringing Mrs. Bennet up like a pig when she got shrill, then she would be a member of  The Clique and not one of the greatest creations in fiction.I haven't finished this book, but after 338 pages, I think I've given up.
Awesome storyIf for no other reason, the scene where Darcy confronts Lizzie’s kidnappers, makes this a must read story.I’m sorry this was a series of books since I can’t afford all of them. This story is good enough to stand by itself.I recommend it highly.
Using the main character’s from Jane Austen’s novel as a guideline but then developing the characters in a way that gave them a life all their own.
I’ve read reviews of this book and some are against Ms Berdoll’s semi graphics of “relations” shall we say, between Darcy & Elizabeth, however, it was all in extremely good taste, never offensive and actually quite enjoyable.
If it’s not Austen, it can never be but there are some great sequels, renditions using the Austen cast of characters with the individual author’s creative spin.
VERY disappointing.I suppose it was my own fault for not reading the reviews first.Written in a Jane Austen-esque style, this book was completely UN Austen as they get.Elizabeth Bennet turned into a complete Nymphomaniac!Although she never ran out of euphamisms for sex.
I was amazed at how many descriptions she came up with for the act.It was VERY hard to read about Mr darcy's "Well endowed member" .
I loved the outcome of some of the characters.But honestly this book wasnt even a guilty pleasure or a beach book(you know the ones you are embarassed to admit you have read but secretly like)read at your own risk.
I came back to up my rating to four stars from three, because I kept thinking about it all day. Honestly, I did enjoy the characters. I did enjoy the story. I enjoyed the narration by Rosalyn Landor, especially.
Mr. Darcy Takes a WifeI can only say this is one wild ride of a book! Well thought out, very intriguing, and certainly full of romantic endeavors between Darcy and Elizabeth.
