https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23512.Astronomy_Today
it was a very helpful book as a complementary textbook for my Astronomy course epic textbook , I didn't study all the book and I tried to read the rest in the summer vacation but I was busy enough to finish it as I'm a particle physicist not astrophysicist after all
Very good textbook aimed at college freshman for a science requirement. 8th edition so it includes developments up to 2014. I am gonna give this copy away as a gift since I bought it not knowing I had the 7th edition already.
Online resources fantastic.
This book is a treasure.
It's a university level textbook.
Chaisson and McMillan do an amazing job explaining what the Universe is, how it was formed/is forming, how it works from the Big Bang to the formation of stars and galaxies etc...the whole enchilada.I'm not sure there is a better resource book on the subject available on this planet...one so in depth and articulate, yet written so well a child could understand.
They truly did put the cookies on the lower shelf so that us 'common' folk can enjoy them too.Part Four - Chapters 26-28...Mind-blowingly wonderful.
I feel like I have the encyclopedia of the Universe at my fingertips.
Although Im not technically finished with this textbook (because Im using it for my Astro. class) I've decided to go ahead and say Im finished. This book has helped me learn more about the solar system and beyond than I imagine anything else could. The only downside is that there's only like 1 chapter that is chock-full of math and the rest is just information. You couldn't have spread it out?THE COLLEGE I'LL BE GOING TO USES THE SAME BOOK SO THAT'S A PLUS!!
"Yaninizda tasiyamayasiniz diye boyle buyuk yaptik."- Chaisson & McMillanSundan eminim artik: her referans kitabinin bir tafsilatli versiyonu olmali bir de ince versiyonu. Bu ne arkadas tugla desen tugla degil, kavgada kafaya firlatsan olay cikar.
My Astronomy text book. This is fascinating! I am a little bit of a nerd. I enjoyed all the out of the world stuff this book had to offer. Although there is no person or plot this book was adventurous to me because outer space after all is quite crazy and unstable.
Ahhh.... my astronomy textbook from back in the day when Pluto was still a planet! I remember enjoying this book but totally dreading the random quizzes we had on its contents. I still have it, which must mean something if I held onto it through all these years!
I'm actually reading the 3rd edition of this bood and this is the 6th but it's by the same people and I couldn't find the 3rd on the search engine.
Exaustive panorama of astronomy and cosmology vith a little superior than popular level and with exercices , very readable , i own the seventh edition
I absolutely HATED this book. It was so confusing and hard to read and didn't hold my attention at all. If you're a science major, I'm sure you would love this book, but if you're someone like me who is only taking the class to fulfill a science credit, it will most likely be mind draining.
Excellent introduction to the field of astronomy. This book does a great job making incredibly complex concepts attainable and understandable.
This book has some really good data and general info :)
