https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4835.Haroun_and_the_Sea_of_Stories
" What's the use of stories that aren't even true? "I'm not quite sure why I picked this up (it's a children's book, and my "child" was 21 last week - perhaps I'm hankering for times past), but I'm glad I did. It has the powerful mythical feel of traditional fairy tales, with plenty of nods to classics, and a political undercurrent that tells of the time he wrote it.It would be perfect to read to a child of around 7 to 10, over a couple of weeks (twelve equal chapters), but as a solo adult, I en
I won't summarise the plot, but it has all the elements you want and expect from a book like this: fantastical creatures; enigmatic lyrical characters juxtaposed with logical prosaic ones; dashes of humour; a maze of corridors; mistaken identity; occasional puns and Malapropisms (pussy-collar-jee = psychology); love; betrayal; impossible dilemma; princess rescue; disorientation; lucid dreaming?; a battle; time dilation; derring-do; funny names; telepathy; wishes; a baddie who explains his plan to the captured hero; magic; a gadget (complete with arbitrary timeout).Free speech - Je suis HarounThis is about the fun of stories and the importance of believing even what you can't see, but it's not just about that.
"What's the use of stories that aren't even true"?This is a classified as a children's book...perfect to read to an 8-10 year old.
Yet..now that I've read it ..( chucking..,smiling...moved...and enriched)...I can't wait 'to play' now with this novel.
This book is filled with imagination--so why not use a little of our own with it?
Rushdie wrote this book in dedication to his son, Zafar.
Rushdie went into in hiding when in 1989, "The Satanic Verses" was released.
This was the first novel ...'To Zafar'...that Rushdie wrote after "The Satanic Verses".
The story is full of reflections about the importance and fantasy, myth, nature, and storytelling.
دوستانِ گرانقدر، این کتاب از 233 صفحه تشکیل شده است و <سلمان رشدی> همچون داستان "آیات شیطانی" در این داستان نیز منظورش را در قالب داستانی خیالی بیان نموده است و شما میتوانید هر شخصیتِ تاریخی و مذهبی را که در ذهن دارید به جایِ عناصر داستان بنشانیدداستان در موردِ پسری به نامِ <هارون> میباشد که در کشورِ "الفبا" زندگی میکند و پدرش <رشید خلیفه> مشهورترین داستان سرا و افسانه سراست که به دو لقب مشهور است: یکی سلطان وراجی و دیگری دریایِ اندیشهآنها در شهرِ "داستان" زندگی میکردند و مردم

I loved how this book drew on Pakistani/Muslim stories and imagery, and I enjoyed the company of its young protagonist.
Another reason it seems self conscious is perhaps its transparent agenda; it's a parable in defense of freedom of speech.
I waited over 100 pages for an interesting female character, and I liked her when she arrived, but she had heavy work against the sexism of her culture and even against her author to make up for the barely-written faithless wife, the damsel in distress used for light relief (although Haroun challenged it rather weakly and ambiguously - but what is with this purity-of-fairytales angle?
I thought Rushdie had some good prose, the ideas were interesting, but the surrealism combined with moments of silliness made for an odd mix, and in the end I left satisfied but disoriented, like I'd eaten an exotic meal."Haroun and the Sea of Stories" was Rushdie's attempt to write a children's book for the son he was estranged from.
There's a certain sadness to the tone of the book, wherein a storyteller loses his ability to do his job, and his son must travel through the world of stories to get it back.Much like Clive Barker, I consider Rushdie to be a good author who should stay far away from children's writing.
Just like that.A father's love for his son gave us this magical allegory: A little boy called Haroun, embarks upon an adventure of a lifetime so he could retrieve his storyteller father Rashid Khalifa 'The Shah of Blah's' inspiration as the latter lost it after a tragic personal setback.
Upon this breezy, comic tale hangs the dark clouds of Rushdie's fatwa years when the writer was shifting from place to place under assumed identities, constantly under death threat for his earlier book 'Satanic Verses', indeed questioning himself "What's the use of stories that are not even true?"Isn't it a triumph of a writer's imagination & freedom of expression that from such a bleak phase emerged such a life-affirming, art-affirming work?
there is something about a story written for an adult audience as myth or child's tale that i love.
rushdie's earlier works never captured me; "midnite's children" seem windy and ornate with insufficient structure to hold up the explainations.
"haroun" is still written with all the mastery that rushdie shows as a writer, but this compression as a children's tale turns coal into a diamond.
while not well read enough to consider myself a rushdie scholar, i suspect that "haroun" is the pivotal career changing work of one of our age's most notable writers.
Great kid's story - my son loved it. I thought that the language was clever and creative and enjoyed the pace. The characters were engaging, funny and a joy to follow. If you have a kid that is between 8 and 10 years old, they will love reading this book with you I am sure.
And with Haroun, Rushdie has blown my mind again.
Rushdie wrote Haroun for his son during the fatwa.
Superficially it’s a beautiful tale about the adventures of a boy named Haroun Khalifa, hailing from a ‘sad’ city, the saddest of cities, a city so ruinously sad that it had forgotten its name.
Ah, Rushdie, you are indeed a wordsmith!Sir Rushdie, you have survived the threats of the ruthless Khattam-Shud (read: Ayatollah Khomeini) and I hope you come up with more and more magnificent tales from the never-ending Sea of Stories.
Charming, magical, hilarious. Haroun and the Sea of Stories feels like a fairy tale, moves like a fantasy adventure, and reads like literary fiction. It's absolutely appropriate and delightful for all ages. The prose is gorgeous.
I know the editors' reviews tell you that it will change your life, change the world, or something else great.
It's just that it lacks some level of subtely and cohesiveness that good books have.
Even good kids' books.
And it also lacks that "page turner" element that makes up for a book not being that great, becuase it somehow grabs you.
This book is easy, and it's very cute.
THey both use puns and play on words, they both tell of magical journeys that change a young boy's life.
Salman Rushdie wrote this book for his son, when he wasn't able to be with him. Its a book of fairytales describing the adventures of a father (who used to be a storyteller) and his son. There is a lot of impression from other books such as 1001 Arabian Nights, and other writers' and books' are also hinted in the story. The fun level is not so high but it is still an entertaining activity to read this book together with children.
In the north of the sad city stood mighty factories in which sadness was actually manufactured, packaged, and sent all over the world.
And it all slithers into the world of Kahaani land.
What I liked in the book was names given to the characters and places in the book: In the land of Kahaani, there was war between Gupwalah and Chupwalah in which the princess Baat-cheat was captivated by Khattam-Shudd ...
the army went to fight with Bezuban, and Chupwalah and their shadows, all living in the land of darkness, conspiring to pollute the sea where the sources of stories reside ...
Would have loved it 10 years earlier.
As a 6th grade teacher, my first thoughts were that it would be too difficult to teach to my class (I prefer the teacher lens to the previous MFA creative writing student lens, but ultimately the best is when the lenses recede because I'm too far into the world of the book, which quickly happened), but my next thought was that this is an ageless (as in any age could read it) myth set so firmly in the 20th/21st c., with super computers and machine animals and evil people considering themselves significant enough to disrupt the planet on which they live--I kept expecting our friendly mechanical animals to be revealed as actually living, but they weren't, which in the end is perfect and more complex, and more of the moment of the book.
A fantastically preposterous carpet ride with magicians, genies and goblins. An oceanic library of stories aimed primarily at children, but also likely to please adults who haven't yet succumbed to cynicism and whose imaginations haven't yet withered on life's vine. Riotous, hugely imaginative and funny to its core. Those of you who have young children, read this out loud to them at bedtime, for you will get just as much fun out of it as they will!
i hate this book!!!!!!!!!!! it's so bad- what with its unneccasary capitalization, cheesy, overdramatic-ness, and just plain being weird. ugh, so bad!!!!!!!!!!!!
I love reading children's books but this one was just too cutesy-wootsey for my taste and I'm puzzled to know who might actually like it.
That might be fine in a ten page picture book but it got wearing in a story that goes on and on for over 200 pages with NO pictures and a horribly convoluted plot.
And then there was the negativity and even cynicism that shot through the story--with mothers abandoning their families and children saying just the wrong thing so that their fathers lose their storytelling ability.
Content rating: PG for some odd negative messages that I couldn't decode.
it didn't remind me of easy, uncomplicated literature, which Adams writes, but it matched in absurdness.now i know, people who read the series and liked it will say - no!, no no, it's not like that a bit.
it's SF, it's extremelly funny and innuendo-ish and easy to engage in.and this is a children's book i'm comparing it to, so this comparison shouldn't even exist.
it's a children's book, and it's meant to be educational and entertaining on the simplest level, while still leaving space for a second read, where you can find other povs than you did before.
Rather than retreating under the death threats, that he received after the much popular fatwa, Rushdie reiterates the importance of literature and celebrates the triumph of storytelling and imagination over raw power and dogmatism.
It is this thought that makes 'Haroun and the Sea of Stories' a book worthy of five stars even if it's not 'the best Rushdie's given his fans'(which is a statement I don't agree with)!
How much have you seen,eh, Thieflet ?
My first Salman Rushdie book and it was a delightfully written fable.
Rushdie creates a good fantasy world, one which is very simple and has its own logic.
Logic that pertains to the polar opposites of silence & noise.
I liked that specific angle by which Rushdie looked at his alternate world.
One where stories flow and noise rules the roost, silence steps in as the antagonist to well...
The characters are not ones that really leap out of the pages to grab your attention, that aspect is left to the world.
I felt like this was quite similar to Alice in many ways, except the writing was more engaging and the characters more sympathetic and relatable.
It's interesting to think of Haroun in relation to Desmond's storyline throughout this last season, specifically once he has seen through to the island-timeline of the story, and seems intent of "fixing" things and bringing people together.
I can't wait to see what other similarities come up as the season ends.If you're looking for more info on this novel and it's relation to Lost, check out this article by Jeff Jensen at Entertainment Weekly.
In my typical way of not always respecting the order in which things were written, I read the follow-up book to Haroun and the Sea of Stories last year, and it came in as my second-favourite book of the year.
Luka and the Fire of Life was one of those books that found a spot in my brain and nestled in like it had always belonged there.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Haroun and the Sea of Stories reminded me very much of The Phantom Tollbooth, especially, of course, in its use of allegory.I thought this would make a good reading assignment for a middle schooler.
I can't say it affected me any which way at age 42 except that I was not immune to the horribly depressing image of the sea of stories being choked by poisons.
I guess I also thought it was interesting that the son's pronouncement on the father's stories could have such a profound effect.Salman Rushdie, Umberto Ecco, Milan Kundera - for right or wrong, I always lump these three literary dignitaries together, perhaps just because they all shared life and fame in the same decades and share a similar (European) sensibility.
Upakovano u jednu razigranu i živopisnu bajku, Salman Ruždi nam pre svega govori o ljudskoj potrebi za pričama (hoću reći književnosti), koje daju čar ljudskom životu.
Osim toga, ova bajka ne bi bila bajka da ne sadrži i večitu borbu dobra i zla - borbu protiv svega onoga što ljude koči i sprečava da budu srećni i zadovoljni.
A tu su i moralne pouke o važnostima zajedništva, prijateljstva, ljubavi i porodice, začinjene simpatičnim gegovima i interesantnim i živopisnim likovima.Harun i More priča je još jedan razlog više zašto volim prozu Salmana Ruždija.
What a delightful story!
There are many blurbs on the back and front of this book, and I agree with all of them: it is Swiftian, it is written on more than one level (fable, fantasy, allegory), and it is wonderfully inventive.
Haroun and the Sea of Stories can be enjoyed by children and adults alike.This book was written after Satanic Verses, and is very much about the freedom of speech and the right to be creative.
It's not essential to understanding the story, but it's very interesting:)
Salman Rushdie is such a show-off. A lot of aspiring writers would save heaps of money on writing classes, if they just read this short novel and asked themselves the question: Can I write something as seamless and perfect as Haroun And The Sea Of Stories? If not, don't bother.
Maybe I wasn't in the mood
Such a wonderful and funny story! And Butt the Hoopooe is <3
Livro de fantasia infanto-juvenil que conta como Haroun viu seu pai, um famoso contador de histórias, perder seu dom em razão de uma desilusão amorosa.
Sempre gostei de realismo fantástico, sendo o  Murilo Rubião um dos meus maiores referenciais, inclusive lembrei varias vezes dele durante a leitura.A narrativa é simples e ao mesmo tempo traz algumas complexidades, tendo Rushidie criado toda uma mitologia para explicar a origem das histórias de Rashid, com personagens relativamente bem caracterizados e interessantes.
Além de trazer duas lições: histórias são importantes para manter a imaginação ativa e as pessoas felizes, e o silenciamento das vozes propicia a não união entre as pessoas (ou as sombras).Não considero um livro excepcional, mas vale a pena a leitura.
