https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/209478.On_Old_Age_On_Friendship_On_Divination
If all things of natural law are necessarily good and virtuous - than how can death be something to fear?
(And every reason to want to live a virtuous life.)* one of two Roman magistrates appointed to take the census, and, later, to supervise public morals.On Friendship"A sure friend is discerned in unsure matters." --- EnniusAlthough it seemed, at first glance, that this essay would be a more simple and even superficial treatment of the subject, it turned out to be the more complex.
I'd like to read it again when I begin to age and fall apart. I liked the reference to the main character's (I forget the spelling) mastery of Greek after the age of 60 - made me feel like I shouldn't be so worried about running out of time to study the things I want to learn. It also contains a good deal of sound advice regarding choosing friends and interacting with them, although it can seem somewhat Machiavellian at times.
When I pick up a book of ancient treatises like this, I often subconsciously brace myself for tendentious dialogues with a lot of bad arguments.
I bought this mainly for the essay on old age, since it's coming up and I'd like to handle it well.
But right at the beginning, he cut me down to size by remarking that the people who find old age hard are the people who find other times of life hard.
But on the whole Cicero nails it, and his arguments discredit a lot of Christian superstition no less than pagan.
Atticus, a wealthy and rather apolitical banker, survived the upheavals and died of colon cancer many years later, in his early eighties.) On Old Age is pretty much the only serious philosophical work on this topic, and it is a gem.
In this stylish dialogue, Cicero brings in a protagonist who is a well-known politician, Cato age 84 at the time the dialogue is set, and Cato proceeds to puncture all the stereotypes about old age, which are pretty much the same ones we deal with: old people are useless and can't do their work; their bodies are decrepit; they can't have sexual pleasure; etc.
Cicero's treatise on friendship wasn't that novel -- especially because I read Montaigne's and Seneca's far superior works on the matter -- but it is relatively solid. His treatise on old age, however -- extremely valuable, and highly recommended. The end of the treatise is loaded with quality quotes and passages; every person should read this.
Given how little we have how do I rate the ancient sources other than "must read?"
Another of Cicero's handsomely articulated programmes for living the good life, but let us add, life ordered around our natural human limitations, the disciplining of our sensual appetites (not in the puritanical sense; but in the acknowledgement of life's manifold pleasures), and the graceful filling of our days with reflection, gratitude, joy and finally complete submission to the reality of ever present mortality.
A good read. A book that makes you ponder the life that you live in.
Both De Senectute (On Old Age) and De Amicitia (On Friendship) are enjoyable reads (I have not read De Divinatione).
They are not terribly long, and the dialogue format makes it casual even while dispensing philosophical views on old age and friendship.
De Senectute is really an expansion of the discussion of old age between Socrates and Cephalus at the beginning of Republic book I, making many of the same points, but going into greater detail.
De Amicitia is a wonderful read in part because its topic, which is rarely discussed philosophically in our own time, but was a standard topic in classical philosophy.
There is an unfortunate portrayal of him in the HBO series "Rome" that leaves the impression of his being a scheming, pedantic, intellectually effite weasel (I think that covers it), but he was an astonishingly deep thinker and the epitomy of Aristotle's virtue."Divination" is less revealing than "Old Age" and "Friendship." Both of the latter explain a lot about one's experience in life and provide a useful guidebook for the younger reader.
Both are about choices and consequences, things we moderns like to avoid.One of the best of the classics I have read, and the Loeb edition is a great translation with parallel Latin text.
Love.On Old Age provides the source information about Isocrates' and Gorgias' late production, as well as the argument about "use it or lose it." In fact much of it is close to current thought, except the bit about how it's better to not feel passions as you age...Viagra!On Friendship is not particularly startling, only that he suggests that friendships should be carefully vetted because people ought to take as good of care with their friendships as they do with their goats and sheep. Plenty quotable.
Cicero is a sweet old man who just wants to ramble at you for awhile. Lots of well thought out, timeless ideas of what it means to grow old and to die. All from a guy who has been dead for over two thousand years. By the end of it you will want to die....because he makes being old so great...not because it is boring. Because it isn't.
A must-read treatise on old age. Cicero answers four common complaints against old age and shows how advancing years are a blessing and may be enjoyed fully and without any unhappiness or fear of death.
only read De Amicita
Beautiful ideas and writing style.
Classical advice from a man I hope to read again and again.
