https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2986865-eon
“Even a cornered rabbit will fight with teeth and claws.”  If you like the sound of really good fantasy that is steeped in a unique blend of Chinese and Japanese mythology, the world Alison Goodman has created should be next on your list. Vivid, colourful and highly imaginative. But you might want to make sure you have the even more amazing sequel lined up for when you're done.How refreshing it is to be completely surprised by a story, to not be able to predict where the plot will take me next,
If you like the sound of really good fantasy that is steeped in a unique blend of Chinese and Japanese mythology, the world Alison Goodman has created should be next on your list.
But you might want to make sure you have the even more amazing sequel lined up for when you're done.How refreshing it is to be completely surprised by a story, to not be able to predict where the plot will take me next, to not be bombarded with insta-love and cringy romance.
It was the perfect blend of political upheaval and magic.In this exciting new world, Eon is one of the candidates to become the next Dragoneye apprentice.
As gently but strongly as a wisp of incense, Eon beckoned until I was completely in the thrall of its magic, and I hate to think how sad my life would be if didn't have this vividly imaginative novel in it.For years, 16-year-old Eon has been training to be a Dragoneye apprentice, a coveted position in which the student serves as the conduit between energy dragons and the human world.
I found it fascinating that the author chose to write a book focusing on a world where power is forbidden to women, and my favorite character was the indelible Lady Dela, Eona's "contraire" mentor who is a man living as a woman...who is in love with a noble eunuch.
She told me I HAD to read it, and as I tend to do with most paperbacks, I shoved it in the black hole I call a bookcase and promptly forgot it existed.Fast forward two years later, to when my book goddess Tatiana writes a glowing review of a fantasy novel called Eon: Dragoneye Reborn.
The Two Pearls of Wisdom is, in fact, the original title of Eon: Dragoneye Reborn.As I said, this book inspired a variety of emotions in me, most of them extreme.
The main thing that earned this book four stars is the sheer diversity of its mythos and characters.
Right up to the end I was clutching my chest like some kind of heart patient in desperate need of a quadruple bypass.The big themes in this novel centre on sexuality, gender roles and personal identity so get ready to get a little confused about whether you need to pee standing up or sitting down.Although, the Sheewee and P-mate have erased most of the need to worry about squatting if you do decide that you are, after all, a sitter...Then again, there is another option:[image error]You could just admit defeat now in the face of the overwhelming confusion you will experience when men are more feminine than you.I felt that the writing was smooth with rich descriptions and powerful characters.
That's why it is such a surprise I liked this book so much, because Eon: Dragoneye Reborn is very mythology-oriented and prone to frequent info-dumping (especially in the beginning).At first, the story is reminiscent of Alanna: The First Adventure.
Eon(a) is a 16-year old girl who pretends to be a 12-year old boy in order to have a chance of becoming a Dragoneye - an apprentice to one of the 12 dragons.
This alternative book cover is an epitome of how I imagine the world of Eon:Isn't it gorgeous?And don't let me forget to mention the gender-bender twists in this book.
Larger graph if you can't read it:  here . A Few More Points: *If you want someone to seem like a villain, do NOT make them taste like a creamsicle when you kiss them. Vanilla and orange=AWESOME.*How DARE you end a book at that point! (just kidding, Ms. Goodman. You hooked me for the next one)*I hope that Chart is part of book two. When he says "Sluuuuut" to Irsa, I laughed out loud at the audiobook. (One high point of the audio version which, overall, left a lot to be desired)
I was really struggling between 1 and 2 stars for this one so I'm compromising with 1.5 stars.
The fact that Eon takes forever to realize the "big secret" was not something that ruined my enjoyment completely, but it definitely dampened a story that could have been perfect.I started this book hot off the tail of Seraphina, not even realizing until I started writing this review that I had read two young adult fantasies with dragons back-to-back.
If you're looking for another book with dragons after reading Seraphina or you want another young adult fantasy that takes place in an Asian setting like Cinder, definitely check this book out; Eon isn't perfect, but it's certainly a fun ride.
I need to read the second book like RIGHT NOW!!! I'm so mad that I don't own it because I literally want to start reading it immediately.
If there IS a good way to have a heart attack.
No, I didn't want Lord's Ido and Sethon to win, I just kinda hoped that somehow some random, epic hero would show up and scissor kick them both to death and that would be the end of that and Eon could go on her whiny little way to learning how to not suck at life.
She'd jump into the pages of other books with a shot gun and kill every villain that every weak willed character has ever erroneosly let live.
In the end I'm glad(??) that i read itEon has grew up his entire life having a single thought literarlly beaten into his head "everything feminine is bad".
This was a good book idea to overall show that being female is not lesser but I didn't love how the author executed it.
She was so strong in her identity, I was in awe....kinda wish we read about her instead of Eon at first but I'm hoping Eona finds the same acceptance&self-love
However, as the book went on Eon began to feel emotions.
I loved how it all turned out in the end for Eona as a character.
This is the world 16 year-old Eon(a) lives in.
After I got to know Eona more, I started having a better appreciation for the book.I really loved Eona and her determination to become a Dragoneye despite her limitations her culture had bestowed upon her.
She finds that she has been thrust into a world of politics with people depending heavily on her power.
Find your brain while you're at it, m'kay?However, all was not lost with Eona's slow uptake.
Once people started finding out her secret, the book moved along way faster.
Eona had tremendous growth in this book.
It's the first book in the series, so I felt some things were lacking, and there were some issues in the world building that bothered me; for the most part, this was an action-packed book that I enjoyed more than I expected to.I remember reading the blurb, realizing that the protagonist was a cross-dressing female, and said to myself "No." I've got nothing against it, it is just not a genre of storytelling that interests me.
It's strange reading a book based on the Far East where the characters have Western sounding names.
This book also falls into that somewhat narrow category of YA fantasy suitable for older readers that doesn't have a romantic sub-plot.
It's an entertaining read given depth because of the interesting characters, not just Eon, the struggling Dragoneye who is hiding the fact that she is actually a woman, but also supporting characters such as Lady Dela, a transgendered Court Lady who becomes a faithful friend and ally to Eon.My only complaint is that the difficulty Eon struggles with for much of the book seemed somewhat obvious in its resolution, but that didn’t really detract from my enjoyment of the story overall.
(Which is why you guys like me, don’t even try to lie).Right, so, this is a fantasy about a girl posing as a boy in not!ancient China, and she impresses bonds with an ancient dragon who hasn’t been seen in 500 years, and there is imperial intrigue and stuff.I would probably be less furious if this book were incompetent.

I enjoyed the pace of the first 75 or 100 pages, which some critics might label "useless worldbuilding." I felt like it was building the world Eon lived in, from the Master's house to the city, showing the different types of adversity faced, and setting up an 'overcome major adversity' plot.
Living with pain and harsh discipline from sword masters.
I mean, really--you trained with a sword for four years.
Slow start but amazing ... ohh yes ...I mean, if you thought a girl with dragons was cool ... You haven't read about EONA ... Because first she was passing as a boyAnd then she became  Controlling thisAnd right now, I'm downloading the sequel EonaAnd if you are mexican ... let me tell you this book will remind you of
*** 4 *** A buddy read with my homies at BB&B!This was one very beautifully written, very engaging, but very frustrating book of the Fantasy genre variety.
...Eon's secret is revealed very early on in the book and we spend the majority of the time wondering when it will be discovered and how much damage would follow.
Usually, when I book infuriates me that much, I end up rating it not higher than 3 Stars, but it was very well written, very imaginative, and it made me totally emotionally invested, which is the hallmark of a good book to me.
If you, like me, have always wished that Tamora Pierce and Anne McCaffrey would finally admit their deep, abiding love for one another; make it official with a short ceremony in Massachusetts; then decide to start a family by adopting a fierce Asian baby, then I think you will fall in love with this book.This is the powerful story of Eon, a young candidate for apprentice Dragoneye.
That’s how awesome it is.This book explores the balance and interchange of the masculine and feminine; the competition between compassion and ruthlessness.
Alison Goodman creates a fully-realized world filled with dragons, magic, ancient customs, and political warfare.
Our main character is Eon, a candidate to become apprentice dragoneye, an honour bestowed to only the worthiest of men.
TWIST – Eon, is actually Eona, a 16 year old girl, who if she is found out, will be killed.Initial thoughts:1.
The plot is amazing!
Eon is faced with obstacle after obstacle.
No plot holes here.3.
From Eon, to her master, Ryko, and Lady Dela.
Goodman imbues all of your senses.
it's like you're there!So glad to read a 5 star book!
Full book review coming soon!
How refreshing this was.In Eon, every year a different Dragoneye becomes the ascendant, and an apprentice is chosen by the dragon.
Eon is a Dragoneye candidate, and it doesn't help that she has a twisted leg.But girls are forbidden to the use of dragon magic.
Women have no place in the world of the dragon magic.
I loved how the cycle of the ascendant dragons and their Dragoneye's worked.
I also wish that the book could have delved into the mystery of why the Mirror Dragon was missing for 500 years and what happened to the last Dragoneye.
While a lot of these new fantasy stories have imitated what J.K. Rowling did with the Harry Potter novels, very few of them have really set the imagination on fire with an new, fascinating fantasy universe like J.K. Rowling did seven novels and one short story collection ago.Which is what makes Alison Goodman's "Eon: Dragoneye Reborn" such a treat.
"Eon" borrows some elements from the Harry Potter (and every other fantasy) universe, setting up a young underdog hero with potential for greatness undergoing extensive training against overwhelming odds.
I wanted to love it, but I just couldn't. The lack of explanations just killed it for me. This book had no setting, though I'm assuming it's China. But it's never mentioned, and to me that's a pretty fundamental aspect of a book. The plot was really quite cool and exciting once you got more into the book, but it took me forever to get there because it was pretty slow and I kept having to reread things to try and understand what was going on. Not sure if I'll end up picking up book 2.
Eon (both the book and the character) did not make it easy for me to like them, oh no.
Boy was I ever wrong.Eona’s only way out of salt farms and abject poverty is to learn Dragon Magic and become the next Dragoneye apprentice, but girls aren’t allowed to even enter the selection, which is why she’s spent the last four years living as a boy.
Suddenly, destiny of an entire empire rests on Eon’s shoulders.The double nature of Eon/Eona does not end with gender alone.
In truth, secondary characters were far more interesting than Eon himself.
While I didn’t much care for the heroine herself, there are many characters whose fates I absolutely have to learn.
Lady Dela was simply born the way she is and Eon was forced into the subterfuge.It's definitely a high fantasy novel with a lot of world building.
Yeah, as a reader you're forced to swallow some of the world building in weird places with thick content, but it's never really that painful.My only complaints about the story are how long I knew what was going on as opposed to how long it took Eon to figure out what was going on.
The pages to this admittedly thick book felt mostly like world building and then those long pages of wanting to strangle Eon for not getting to the obvious answers faster.
This is a pretty chunky book for young adult but it was a fairly easy read.
Fast paced and frequently very tense, it kept this reader engrossed for some good quality reading time whilst flying half way round the world.The world building was very Oriental which fitted well with the theme of dragons.
These were rather amazing dragons too and the world around them was very well thought out.
What was important was the terrific story, the tension which was almost too tense at times and the ending which leads straight in to the next book.
Long story short, I received a pre-publication of this book SUCH A LONG TIME AGO, and for some unfathomable reason, I never read it.
Eon has been training for years for the chance to be chosen as a Dragoneye apprentice, one of twelve boys who bond with the magical spirit dragons that protect their Empire.
The underlying themes of this book all tie into Eona's search for her own identity as a person, and as she learns to navigate her (view spoiler)[new powers, and her mysterious connection with the Mirror Dragon, who has been missing for 500 years.
There was just the right amount of different characters introduced with very individual struggles, well-rounded, who all contributed something to the plot and Eona's development.
Because - doh - the answers were right there and Eona created half of the problems herself because she couldn't just stop and think.
Furthermore, there was not enough about the dragons for my liking and generally lots of questions with few answers.
Perhaps they will be answered in the sequel, but it is not like the author didn't have enough pages to provide at least some explanations.
When I think of my mother and the women in my tribe, and the hidden women in the harem, I know there are many types of power in this world...I found power in accepting the truth of who I am.
It may not be a truth that others can accept, but I cannot live any other way.
How would it be to live a lie every minute of your life?
I don't think I could do it.” Having really enjoyed Goodman’s The Dark Days Club, I was curious to try another of her books.
