https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/216399.A_Maze_of_Death
To share a more specific taste of this novel's uniqueness, here are nine specimens of PKD exotic fruit:Seth Morley – A marine biologist who receives timely advice from a Walker-on-Earth to switch from his chosen noser (small one-way rocket) for flight to Delmak-O, a noser called the Morbid Chicken.
His existence was the first and most natural mode of being to form itself.” As PKD himself states in his Forward, the theology in A Maze of Death is not like any one known religion; rather, as science fiction author, he developed his own system of religious thought predicated on the fickle assumption that God exists.Prayer – If you were going to pray, would you need a transmitter where you could attach conduits to permanent electrodes extending from your pineal gland?
A Maze of Death, published in 1970, was one of his better novels, combining thought provoking science fiction with an introspective search for truth that was a central element in much of Dick’s later fiction.Behind Ubik, this was his work most frequently referenced in the The Exegesis of Philip K.
I submit here that there could be a sixth group who choose as his best work A Maze of Death (even though this could potentially be a sub-group of the Ubik folks).
A Maze of Death is, for me, classic PKD, it has all the unique PKDesque things that I love about reading his fiction; weird, funny, surprising, and never a dull moment.
That is enough synopsis I think, but it is worth mentioning that Delmak-O is full of some very strange critters, one species look like a miniaturized building, another is a gelatinous thing that makes copies of objects put in front of it, and several more, including weird flies and bees, that I won’t mention.A Maze of Death literally got me through a very tough time as I was sick as a dog last week and slept poorly but the book kept my spirits up.
And just as you think you figured it out, it becomes even more nihilistic and disorganized.It is also one of Dick's best novels.It starts out like a science fiction version of a horror novel where the characters are sure to get picked off.
In the book, God exist as a perceived reality, prayers are sent electronically and people live by their bible titled How I Rose From the Dead in My Spare Time and So can You. It is also one of Dicks' few works that explores the idea of death in detail.
Freud's Death Instinct hovers throughout this nihilistic work.
The beginning of Dick's later God novels, but still predating his 2-3-74 pink beam episode and his later VALIS Trilogy (Gnostic Trilogy [God Trilogy]), 'A Maze of Death' is a philosophical SF novel that explores the nature of God, religion, and the way we as both individuals and a society try to deal with the various levels of reality and the inevitability of death.
Reading this, it was hard not to see huge chunks of this novel that were cribbed by LOST (good tv borrows, great tv steals).
The marooned crew, experiments, theological mash-ups, insanity, dream-like fugues, paranoia, etc., all float around in the same dreamy, frenzied universe as LOST.
Εκεί θα συναντήσουν άλλα 12 άτομα, όμως κανείς απ' αυτούς δε γνωρίζει το σκοπό για τον οποίο έχουν μαζευτεί.
Παρά τον κίνδυνο που διατρέχουν δυσκολεύονται να πράξουν σαν ομάδα, αντιθέτως με τις συμπεριφορές τους φέρνουν πιο γρήγορα την καταστροφή.Φυσικά τίποτα δεν είναι αυτό που φαίνεται, αφού μιλάμε για βιβλίο του Dick.
Οι ιδέες και οι συμβολισμοί του για μια ακόμα φορά είναι απαράμιλλοι!
Για ακόμα μια φορά η φαντασία του Dick οργιάζει, αφού μεταξύ άλλων βλέπουμε ένα τεράστιο κυπρίνο - προφήτη και ένα κτίριο που είναι και δεν είναι εκεί.
I don't know if it was the translation, but I found the writing, the dialogues mostly, somewhat amateurish. So much so, that I thought it was one of his earlier works, until I found out it wasn't. Once more, Dick blends sci-fi with theological and sociological concerns and, although his talent in doing that is more than obvious, A Maze of Death is somewhat weaker in the details than his other novels. That said, the story flows effortlesly and the final twist serves as a starting point for thoughts.
Topi in gabbia Non propriamente una tranquilla vacanza quella vissuta dai tapini in quel di Delmak-0, luogo dimenticato da Dio e sede di fenomeni non sempre ascrivibili alle confortanti dinamiche terrestri.Interessante il gioco delle parti sostenuto dai burattini sulla scena; ancora più dirompente la corrosiva mancanza di certezze, quasi mostrate in bella vista attraverso una vetrina e poi sbriciolate di fronte ai nostri occhi.Ottimo romanzo "minore" di Dick, senza ombra di dubbio.
It's like PKD redesigned the game Clue while on acid.
Loved this one! Engaging throughout. A sort of intraplanetary murder mystery with a bunch of castaways on a far off planet. Some very intriguing religious elements stirred into the mix. Great character development. Delmak-O was spooky and mysterious. Strange space creatures. A past shrouded in fog. And a gut-wrenching ending. I’m putting this at the front of the stack of Dick novels I’ve read thus far.
Largely dialogue-driven and microcosmic in its execution, A Maze of Death is reminiscent of the more mind-flaying episodes of the The Twilight Zone.
Complete with a double-twist ending, this novel highlights Dick's stubborn refusal to release the reader's mind back to a state of blissfully ignorant status quo.The thing I like about Philip K.
Dick's novels is that they grab the brain and toss it into a paranoid muck, where it can stew for a while in despair.
If you have a sneaking, cynical suspicion that humanity is largely doomed due to self-regard and narcissism, then A Maze of Death contains a delightful plethora of evidence and justifications to support your belief.
„ ‚Noch eine Frage:‘Gibt es einen Gott?‘“ Maggie schrieb, legte das Blatt auf den Boden, und alle warteten gespannt. Die Antwort lautete: ‚Ihr würdet mir nicht glauben.‘ “
It’s often hard to tell if Dick is actually creating characters who stand on their own with their attributes taken from himself and the people whom he knows, characters who could fit into any scenario because of how real they seem, or characters as functional tools, similar to those in Greek Tragedy, who exist only in the universe of the novel and only could exist in that universe, to serve the purpose of the story.
Try Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep.Also, here is my take on A Maze of Death’s ending: (view spoiler)[Suppose that, instead of the ship to which the characters return after Delmak-O collapses, we do not know what the characters’ reality is.
It's kind of a Dick take on Agatha Christie style whodunit -- a locked planet mystery, if you will.
Pretty soon, they start dropping like flies.
One thing I thought was hilarious is that in the table of contents, each chapter is titled -- for instance, "8: Glen Belsnor ignores the warnings of his parents and embarks on a bold sea adventure" or "13: In an unfamiliar train station Betty Jo Berm loses a precious piece of luggage", but none of these have anything to do with the story.
There aren't even any train stations or bold sea adventures in the book.
Napisana nakon "Galaktičkog iscjeljitelja keramike" (koji je najgori Dick ikada) - valjda je i on shvatio pa napisao dobru knjigu nakon tog sranja.
Četrnaest potpuno različitih ljudi nalazi se na koloniji na napuštenom planetu gdje stvari poprimaju oblike iluzije i repliciraju se same od sebe.
Nekoliko robotiziranih kreatura, biologija mjesta je nesvakidašnja, ali ono što veže sve njih je Religija.
Odjednom na planetu počnu misteriozne smrti, i naših četrnaest protagonista spada na 7, 6, 5...
Najcrnji Dick kojega sam čitao.
Zapravo sam otkrio dobru njegovu knjigu.
Sad me čeka "Simulakrum", ali mislim ipak malo pričekati :)
3,5It's actually a very good book. But there's something about it that didn't feel right. The end is kind of amazing
Dick's 25th science fiction novel, "Ubik," a group of a dozen people is trapped in an increasingly bizarre world, in which objects revert to their previous forms, reality itself is suspect, and the 12 bewildered people slowly crumble to dust, murderously done in, "Ten Little Indians" style, by an unknown assailant.
"Maze" has been called one of Dick's "darkest" books, whereas "Ubik," despite the outre happenings, maintains a comparatively humorous tone throughout.Released as a Doubleday hardcover in 1970, with a selling price of $4.95 (!), "Maze" was the author's attempt to construct "an abstract, logical system of religious thought." God exists, in this novel, and can be petitioned (despite Jim Morrison's cry to the contrary) by mechanical means: by attaching conduits to the permanent electrodes in one's pineal gland.
In continuo viaggio verso...Un dieci piccoli indiani in salsa PKD :-)
Ubik meets And then there were none, meets LSD
Weirdest PKD I've read so far (which is good), no schizophrenia here, but endless paranoia(which is different), but with the most disappointing end (which is bad, therefore my first and only PKD not getting 5/5).Review in Romanian here: https://recomandarisffh.wordpress.com...
Hay personajes muy bien desarrollados (los hay para todos los gustos, desde locos de remate hasta fervorosos religiosos, pasando por adictos a las pastillas y fracasados de diversa índole) y los hay que apenas son esbozados.
Pero lo más valioso de esas últimas veinte páginas no es que de golpe te des cuenta que todo estaba bien urdido, sino que detrás hay varias reflexiones muy potentes (que no voy a explicitar, para no hacer spoiler) que ni siquiera te habías planteado y que dejan su poso tras haberlo terminado.
After reading The Man in the High Caste I felt I had to read more of this guy’s work. It’s too short hence the four stars. Other than that it’s a great sci fi read from someone way ahead of the game. I think a lot of other sci fi writers have read a lot of his books. Scary to imagine being sent to a seemingly abandoned planet;or is it?
After all of the crew arrived, the electronics expert told them that he would then activate a circling satellite which would beam down the contents of its taped memory containing the specific duties of each crew mamber and the overall purpose of the group.
Instead, dark events began to occur on Delmak-O.
The forms took the shape of tiny reproductions of things they had seen before, but could not place firmly within their memories.
There were tiny reproductions of a dark building that they could see off in the distance.
One of the buildings killed one of the crew members.
I’ve had this feeling with Dick’s novels before: people just seem to stumble around, pinging off each other, with no meeting of minds, no communion being made.
All in all, that aspect too is interesting, and yet gets so little time spent on it that it just feels like cleverness for the sake of cleverness.
Dick thing, so to each their own.Character-wise, there is no one here you want to spend time with, so if you’re looking for character studies or sympathetic characters, etc, this isn’t really your game.
If you’re looking for philosophical, even theological stuff that plays with reality, it might be more your thing!Originally posted here.
I understand, from the plots, the reason for this lack-of-escape-from-the-maze-of-self condition and no doubt it has a lot to do with the personality and psyche of the author, in whom I am now interested, but I find these books mildly disappointing side by side with the page-turner aspects.I read UBIK right before this one, and in both is the warning not to go away from the group or you will die.
The people too easily follow...but, yes, that turns out to be an aspect of the plot.So bleak wasted hopeless lives explored in intriguing ways...making me expect some wonderful truth...that never comes and never unwastes and never adds hope.
Every time I read a PKD novel I feel like that he has a brilliant idea to write about, but he does not know how to handle the story.
So he starts writing from the scratch and as the story unfolds, he changes his mind about the fates of his protagonists frequently and so, most of his novels end up in a mess.
This time, when I finished the book, I realized that Dick used a technique opposite of what he always does (or at least, I believe what he always does).
Sinceramente no se que nota ponerle a este libro.La mayor parte me gusto, en un momento una vuelta de tuerca hizo que dejara de gustarme hasta el punto de pensar "Esto es una porqueria!" Pero unos renglones mas adelante volvio a convencerme.
No en cuanto a la trama, sino en como calificarla.La pregunta es que nota ponerle?
Como carajos voy a escribir una reseña?Bueno, que puedo decir.
Aunque creo que todos sus libros viene en parte de las drogas, en parte de su locura y en una mayor parte de su genialidad.
Posicionadolo entre los anteriores de este autor que lei.
However, once everyone (save one member) has arrived, they find that the tape has been programmed to erase itself as it is played.So begins a tale of death, murder, and insanity.
Slowly, surely, each member is murdered somehow.The whole story revolves around the theme of perception versus reality.
Even at the end of the story, the reader is left not entirely sure of what is reality and what is illusion, and it doesn't seem like any of the characters have any better of an idea.Fairly quick read, and certainly mind-warping.
Written from the points-of-view of several characters, neither they nor we are really sure which, if any of them, is experiencing what is actually happening.A group of strangers dissatisfied with their former lives are transported to a colony world in one-way spaceships with a promise of finding fulfillment.
Depending on what information can be believed, the colony has been set up by God, ultra-intelligent aliens, Earth's military forces or as a psychological experiment.All of the characters distrust each other and, one-by-one, they are dying, being murdered or taking their own lives.
That put me off, as I said, to me.To other people I bet they would enjoy it...
But reading a book is like that.
You might win a nobel prize in it and still half the people who read it deslikes it and add some criticisms.
Some SpoilersI really enjoy the scenario, the realization of where they were, the virtual scenario ideia - don't forget that this book was written in the seventies, the characters and their motivations and the reasons.Would I advice this novel to anyone?
It's short and quickly read.
