https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25776122-the-summer-before-the-war
I absolutely loved the book Major Pettigrew's Last Stand, so when I heard that author Helen Simonson wrote a second book I was thrilled to have the chance to read an early copy.
Unfortunately, this book was a huge disappointment.Simonson's charm and wit, which made "Pettigrew" so enjoyable, are present in this book but they are buried among superfluous pages and words.
I felt that was apropos here!While the book left much to be desired, it did provide much food for thought on the subject of refugees.
This novel gives me even more cause to appreciate Simonson as an author.The Summer Before the War is an ambitious and finely wrought work of historical fiction set in the East Sussex village of Rye during the summer of 1914.
On the Board of Governors of the School, along with Lady Emily Wheaton, they just may do it.Agatha Kent's candidate to be the new Latin Mistress is Beatrice Nash, an independent young woman who served as her scholarly father's secretary until his recent death.
First performed in 1922, the Symphony was considered a remembrance for those who died in service during the war.Ivor Gurney was not only a composer but also a poet.
Written by the author of "Major Pettigrew" it takes place in Rye, a small town in East Sussex, in the summer of 1914 before the start of WWI.
The sweet innocence of the times is brought to life when Beatrice Nash arrives to teach Latin to the students of Rye. Beatrice is a well educated woman who must make it on her own after the death of her academic father.
It's a lovely, lovely story that so accurately describes the times (at least in my opinion) that it takes my breath away.
It's sometimes easier to manage a war than a wife, John continued...Although a bit long, and a bit slow in story in the beginning, I did thoroughly enjoy this book.
I started it in December and read some chapters almost every day during Xmas times and in the NewYear and looked forward to the continued reading.
It's a gentle story, although about the war, and it is a slow story with a number of memorable characters...
It's humorous, sad, emotional, funny, mildly critical, it puts forward social injustice, the position of women, and it slowly grows and grows on you...
Her champion is Agatha Kent who has lobbied vigorously for more females in the local school, something that rarely happens in the world of 1914.The author lived in Rye for several years when she was growing up which is likely why her descriptions are so vivid, and why once again, I felt that I was teleported into this village and all of its events, both big and small.
I felt very much a part of everything the author wrote about in this book, despite not being a part of that time and place in real life.Agatha and John Kent have two nephews – Daniel and Hugh.
It would be an absolute disaster for a lady in your position to earn a reputation as a bohemian.”I’m not usually a fan of great slabs of dialogue but the conversations were filled with wit and a hint of sarcasm and I couldn’t help but be enthralled and have a few chuckles as I read.A slow paced yet delightful story like meandering through a garden on a summer’s day.If you find this story slow going put it aside and pick it up again.
Chock full of the classic British characters, village life, bias, rigid social structure, strong women behind the scenes who eventually would have to become visibly powerful with the war, sly infighting, some scandals; The Summer Before the War is a "bird's eye view" of a moment in time, captured before it was about to implode.
As the homes of the gentry are emptied of their sons, the first to enlist, (and take the toll of the largest number of British deaths of any group in WWI, as history proves though the novel does not share) the little village of Rye is on the cusp of immense social change.
The author has a keen understanding of this period and the impact that war has on individuals, families and communities at that time.
We see this conflict between Mrs Fothergill and Agatha played out with both amusement and horror when decisions are in the hands of the so called traditionalist characters that include Lord North.
You have the society young women, like Lucy, who hand out feathers to men, a symbol of cowardice, having little understanding of the nature of war.
It also documents the slow and improving picture for women and some people becoming wiser as a result of the war.
Fans of "Major Pettigrew's Last Stand", who were anxiously waiting for a follow up novel of equal charm and dazzle, will be greatly disappointed in this, the second novel by Helen Simonson.
I was one of those people -- anxiously awaiting, and greatly disappointed.
This book is nothing like 'Major Pettigrew'.
Pleased because I don't want cookie cutter books from authors -- with thinly veiled sequels to successful first books.
And, it took 465 pages to barely reach mediocrity!?I will eagerly await her next book, because I think she's proven her writing is worth waiting for.
If you, gentle reader, want a stupefyingly dull read where shallow characters perform a spotlessly clean puppet show of 'life', this is the novel for you.This pseudo-Edwardian novel opens as our 23-year-old spinster heroine, recently bereaved Beatrice Nash, who thinks she is pluckily independent, arrives at the English town of Rye. Despite her constant suffering at the slightly sniffy polite behavior of everyone there treating her like the poor lower-class schoolteacher she now is, since her respected intellectual-writer father died, she tries to persevere.
Impoverished spinster Beatrice and outraged Celeste are saved by - well, I don't think I even need to finish saying it, do I, genteel reader?
While waiting for the school year to start, Beatrice settles into her new accommodation and gets to know the people in the village including Agatha's nephews Hugh and Daniel, visiting for the summer and tutors some young boys in latin.
However, before long the rumblings of war become louder and the village receives a group of Belgian refugees to house and Beatrice finds herself sharing her room with a young belgian woman.
The women in particular are strong characters, especially Agatha and Beatrice, however their behaviour is still strictly dictated by Edwardian standards.
Just the thing for Downton Abbey withdrawal. The Summer Before the War is rich with interesting characters and their relationships. It contains a few gasp worthy moments as it tells the tale of the inhabitants of a small country village as the Great War begins and ends. I was particularly struck by the treatment of women during this time. This is something that Downton Abbey deals with a bit breezily. Fans of Downton Abbey will love it. I did.
Despite the widely differing opinions and ratings on this one, I have to say I really liked it a lot.
Simonson was not afraid to tackle big subjects like homosexuality, the refugee problem, and the unfair treatment of women disguised as "protection".Their were sections that read like a Jane Austen novel, with Beatrice and Aunt Agatha providing sensible women humor and scathing comments.
I vote Maggie Smith as Aunt Agatha if a movie is made.Fans of "Major Pettigrew's Last Stand" will not be disappointed, but this one is very different and much more thought provoking.
It's not a perfect book, but I enjoyed it.The Summer Before the War is set in the summer of 1914 in a small English village.
A few of the villagers aren't ready for a female schoolteacher, and some plotting has to occur to secure her the job.We meet other folks in the village, including a young doctor named Hugh Grange, and his headstrong Aunt Agatha, who likes to run things in the town.
Young boy runs off to war and dies?
But if you like charming British novels, you might enjoy this.
She is not what anyone was expecting; she is well travelled, young and attractive and her position is immediately put under threat by the Mayor's wife, Mrs Fothergill, who is busily promoting her nephew Mr Poot for the job.Agatha Kent, who pushed for Beatrice's appointment, is not a woman to be trifled with, and this challenge from Mrs Fothergill's camp is just one in a long line.The town takes in Belgian refugees, the most notable of whom, The Professor and his daughter Celeste, will have a huge impact on the inhabitants of Rye as the men move off to war and the women fight battles of their own.The characters in this book are superbly developed; from the two ambulance drivers, who use their wit to obscure the horrors they face daily, to Snout, one of Beatrice's summer pupils, a bright and intelligent boy who wanted no more than to 'fit in' to a life he was not born to, to Celeste who is abandoned to her fate by her father who is more interested in saving his library than his daughter.
Lord North is just a cartoon character.Some things just didn’t make sense.
(view spoiler)[To expose Daniel as gay would bring doubt and injury to his own son’s reputation.
Would a man like North have risked that?
They laughed at the wrong time, they teased and kidded when they might have reasonably been expected to cry or moan or writhe in pain.
(hide spoiler)]I was reading another book simultaneously that was set in the second World War. I could not help contrasting the two books and the impact they were having on me as I read.
Everyone in these novels wants to write a book!), swears she'll never marry (hmm, do you think this wonderful guy she keeps talking to will test her resolve?), she's younger and prettier than they had expected (don't things ever happen to average-looking people?), etc., etc.I just lost patience after a while, and even though I enjoyed the convenience of being able to read this on my phone (free ARC from Netgalley; I do feel guilty panning it and dnfing it), it simply didn't do it for me.
Hugh Grange, down from his medical studies, is visiting his Aunt Agatha, who lives with her husband in the small, idyllic coastal town of Rye. Agatha's husband works in the Foreign Office, and she is certain he will ensure that the recent saber rattling over the Balkans won't come to anything.
But just as Beatrice comes alive to the beauty of the Sussex landscape and the colorful characters who populate Rye, the perfect summer is about to end.
First, refugees from Belgium arrive and are taken in by various residents of Rye. After getting to know and love so many young people in this idyllic setting, the young men begin going off to war.
In ordinary life, I never understood how much pleasure it gives me to see you.” The characters realize more than ever, through war, what and who is most important to them.I loved the characters, the hilarity of the social scenes, the budding romance between Hugh and Beatrice.
I loved the social banter, the eloquent wordy ways in which they would argue and criticise each other, especially pre-war.
I hate to be one more voice saying this book doesn't live up to the author's first book, Major Pettigrew's Last Stand, but it doesn't.
If you like slow novels with an abundance of descriptive writing then this is the book for you.
Much attention is given to social standing, manners and propriety, much of it delivered with subtle wit.
The title is misleading, there are too many characters, too many subplots, and the ending just a bit too pat and predictable.
I struggled to finish it and by the end I was skimming.
Soldiers from all over the globe died in the millions trying to capture or recapture terrain that was measured in yards, or even feet.
For a cast of characters that Downton Abbey’s mourners will appreciate, the coming conflict is seen more as an opportunity.
As I listened to this spellbinding story, ably narrated by Fiona Hardingham, I could not help but recall a poem that perfectly captures the melancholy spirit of this excellent novel.
The poem is by by A.E. Housman, a kindred spirit of Daniel.
My mind's eye has conjured a bit of a Pleasantville feel to this innocent pre-war town where everything is just as it should be at the beginning of the book.
She can thank Agatha Grange, who is a member of the school's Board of Governors, for her having been offered the position as many in the town are aghast at the prospect of a woman teaching Latin.
(She plainly states that though she is progressive, she would not have considered hiring an attractive teacher.)Agatha and her husband are very close to their nephews Daniel and Hugh.
A perfect 5 star read.Lord North doesn't like me much.
And through the lens of innocence we can begin to glimpse something true.
The dread hand of authority can instill fear, but it cannot build character.
She is not my Beatrice.Make her so, Hugh said Daniel.
You are half my life too said Daniel.
Yes, dear Hugh.
You, Hugh, are the unexpected note.
I'm coming said Agatha.
He was my son said Snout's father.
He was a scholar and a soldier and a good son to his mother.
It's always the mothers said the gardener.
Nash exhibits some interesting characteristics, all of which come to the surface as she interacts with many of the townsfolk in Rye. The numerous secondary characters prove to be highly entertaining and offer a wonderful flavour of what the reader can expect throughout, engaging one another on many topics from local charitable ventures to the suffrage movement and even into politics of the Great War through Belgian Refugee Relief.
The story is a mix of social commentary, dry wit, and even some political sentiment, which propels the reader to see World War I through the eyes of a small English community, something that might be foreign to many who pick-up this book.
*Buddy Read with Lyuda*I have a 'freebie' to make to all my friends and followers on Goodreads but more of that in a few minutes.
It was 1914 in the small community of Rye, England and it was The Summer Before the War.Beatrice Nash was hired to teach Latin; an unheard of job for a woman of that era.
And believe me when I say, I went back and reviewed all my titles on Goodreads for this time period.
I can't imagine forgetting this story anytime soon and I would not mind sharing our thoughts.
Helen Simonson after doing extensive research has written a beautiful very " Jane Austin " feeling story about the genteel folks of small town Rye , East Sussix, in the year before the war, 1914.
There's also Beatrice Nash , an unexpectedly beautiful and ( by some unwelcome) teacher recruited and sponsored by Aunt Agatha as a Latin teacher at the school who arrives mourning her father and determined to be a freethinking spinster.
The author is not afraid to include controversy , and one of the first casualties of war is the loss of the usual prim and proper deportment of these town people as they face the challenges of wartime.
What a lovely book.
The Summer before the War written by Helen Simonson is a charming love story set in 1914 East Essex, England.
Reminiscent of Jane Austen, the romance that develops between Surgeon Hugh Grange and visiting Latin teacher Beatrice Nash is delightful.
Pictured is her struggle to make ends meet by teaching Latin in the small town of Rye for the summer.
It is heartbreaking to see what Beatrice goes through both socially and professionally.
Be ready for a few tears during the war.
For those of you that have read Simonson’s Major Pettigrew’s Last Stand this book is definitely recommended.4 out of 5 stars.
The Summer Before the War takes place in the summer of 1914 in the idyllic English countryside and the coastal town of Rye in County Sussex as the lives of so many come together with the unfolding events as everyone is preparing for the Great War. Beatrice Nash, having been hired as the new Latin teacher, arrives with a trunk and several crates of books and a bicycle.
An interesting note by author Helen Simonson discusses many of the authors associated with Sussex and Kent during this time period, including Henry James, Rudyard Kipling, Virginia Woolf and Edith Wharton.
Bravo, Ms. Simonson!In my opinion, it surpasses the author’s wonderful debut Major Pettigrew's Last Stand.The story is set in the small coastal East Sussex town of Rye. It begins in the summer of 1914 with arrival of Beatrice Nash, an educated young woman, who has been engaged to teach Latin in the local grammar school.
The story is quite long but I enjoyed every minute I spent reading it.
I highly recommend the story to anybody who is interested in an amazingly written historical fiction.
Thank you, Linda, for unplanned but absolutely delightful buddy-read.
My curiosity was further heightened because I haven’t read many books about WWI and the year 1914 intrigued me.I did enjoy this book but as much as I liked the characters, I wasn’t really totally invested in them or how things would end for any of them, even Beatrice.
Beatrice had led a very different life before coming to Rye. She was well traveled accompanying her father who was a professor and writer.
I enjoyed the descriptions of the town of Rye in 1914 and the seemingly total innocence, or resistence of the idea of war of the townspeople.Agatha was probably my favorite character.
