https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/820465.The_White_Goddess
O.K., so Graves was dead wrong about the Celts.
Still, the "White Goddess" thesis--that patriarchal invaders suppressed the mother-goddess religions of the Aegean and Ancient Near East, traces of which managed to survive in Europe, especially in the minstrel lore of Ireland and Wales--is thanks to Graves now part and parcel of the modern.
The real fun of the book isn't so much in its truth as the getting there: a waterslide ride of educated guessing, crossword logic, and speculative buccaneering that reads more like a postmodern novel than straight up scholarship.
Graves's is the grandmammy of all conspiracy theories, setting the stage for Pynchon & Eco and us.
He seems to be saying you have to be of celtic stock (whatever that means) and a heterosexual male to be a poet...and only if you write on certain themes and have muse like inspiration at that...'cause that's all women are good for...well that and the orgies and temple prostitution obviously.And he makes no mention of Burns or Yeats who pretty much fit his definition (sour grapes on his part?).I like his fiction but I have the feeling he was a bit of a dick.But this book isn’t really about poetry or history....yet it claims to be.
Graves's phrase for what he does is "poetic scholarship," and I'm tempted to be generous and believe that what he means here really is thought that is associative and fleet, as opposed to simply lazy.
The scholarship borders on parody: Graves's assertions are made on what is essentially zero evidence.
You can distance yourself from his conclusions, but the actual motion of thought is undeniable.
The book's a feat, a thing, but above all (I think Graves would probably agree with me here) a solution.
Like many great solutions, it sounds as much like a riddle as the thing it solved.
well, Graves does insist that poetic truth is not a totally different truth, not to be judged by prose criteria of truth, but that it should always be at least true on the prose level and also something more (that something more being magical, profound, etc etc).
In fact, you read books like this, or even more perhaps his essays on poetry, and you meet someone utterly different: someone who is having more fun than any professional scholar would ever be allowed to, sounding off on any topic in a way that's simultaneously outrageous, ground-breaking, profound, world-shattering, and probably, on some level, also, ridiculously untrue.
Hopelessly inadequate summary: Graves belives that literature and poetry are magic, real magic.
Why do I think this is worth your time, especially given the absurd difficulty of the thing?
Well, it may be that Graves has touched on a failure of modern literature avant la lettre, the language has lost its ancient ablity to conjure.
Nobody believes in it and nobody knows how to do it anymore, and the art is, as Graves says a discipline, like biology or genetics.
Graves was one of the last to see therigor in literature and poetry this way.
Now I think I know why.
this is a massive endeavor and will take an eternity to read. while i love cross-referencing the divine feminine through the mystical traditions, i can only take this book in small doses. imagine the densest, darkest fudge. this is not for the faint of heart, but a great resource. i don't want to have to give it back to ira unread, so wish me luck!

It's almost impossible to read the Plath study without this book; apparently, it was a huge influence on Plath while she was at Cambridge (in the flat where she died, there was a poster of the White Goddess tacked to the pantry door).
The book is more interesting for the mythological and folkloric tidbits than the unifying thesis, at this point.
I think the mythological connections are sound, but I have some trouble believing that each and every "true poet" since the advent of Christianity has been engaged in a covert effort to conceal the heretical evidence and practice of true poetry from the masses.
If you drew a Venn diagram of unreadable books and unputdownable books, this would be in the small area of intersection. It reads like the death-evacuation of a brilliant and eccentric mind.
I have to say that the first time through this book left me confused and lost; the second time through I’m on firmer ground in understanding what Graves is trying to do with his “historical grammar of poetic myth” and I’m glad I have spent the last few months reading it again.Truly, you can read only the Forward and Chapter XXVI, “The Return of the Goddess,” and get the gist of Graves’ argument.
I got kicked in the face by this book. For real, it walked up to me, said "i will kick you in the face." I ignored it's warning, and woke up 2 months later with a shattered jaw and lots and lots of information about poetry and bards. Wonderful read if you've ever had a sneaking suspicion all of your favorite "myths" had a certain aura to them.
His brilliant translations (e.g. The Golden Ass) and wonderful historical novesl (e.g. I Claudius) did a great service to the reading public by maintaining an interest in the remarkable literary heritage we all have received from the authors of classical Rome.Having working so hard to develop his competence in Latin, Graves should have understand that rules of professionalism apply to all areas of scholarship.
Graves, the master Latin scholar, decides in The White Goddess to enter the field of Celtic mythology an area in which he is utterly lacking in professional competence.
Unlike Daniken and Heyerdahl who did not possess a professional competence in any area, Graves was a great scholar in Latin culture.
It ties together ancient history, poetry and myth, drawing from traditions around the world.What this book isn't: traditional history or scholarship.
As wikipedia puts it, "Graves openly considered poetic inspiration, or "Analepsis" as he termed it, a valid historical methodology." It is easy to see why New Age, Wikka and other modern syncretic traditions have seized on this book as a touchstone.
This book is drunk on poetry.For example, his concept of Iconotropy is a fascinating and convincing insight into art history, and the relationship between myths and visual art.
If you like this book, you should check out Grave's introduction to his translation of the Greek Myths.
Graves' erudition in ancient literature and mythopoetics is well known (e.g. his classic reference works on Greek mythology) but his thesis in this book has been contested in many quarters (and proved incorrect in some anthropological aspects) and struck me as largely speculative, although I really can't make a judgment since I'm not well read in this area.
I can say that reading this book did spur me to read up on Irish and Welsh myth.
Content-wise, um, make sure you enjoy quasi-scholarly perambulations on poetics, etymology, psychology, and Western and Semitic mythological traditions, that er, sometimes don't seem to lead anywhere.
I reread this book perhaps every other year. Every year, being more widely read, I find more facts that are now outdated. But every year, the ideas, themes and conclusions I feel to be more true.
The function of poetry is religious invocation of the Muse; its use is the experience of mixed exaltation and horror that her presence excites.
'Nowadays' is a civilization in which the prime emblems of poetry are dishonoured." (14)"Mount Helicon was not the earliest seat of the Muse Goddesses, as their title 'The Pierians' shows; the word Muse is now generally derived from the root mont, meaning a mountain.
Graves is best known for his novels I Claudius or his poetry (which was his favorite form of writing), but this work about the grammar and connectedness of myth is a scholarly epic, profoundly interesting and peppered with references to support his "alphabet of the trees" and their use as at least an Iron Age "code" which Druids and perhaps others used to teach and remember their oral knowledge from generation to generation.
It is not a book to imagine reading at one sitting, but more like a very rich dessert.
Several themes in this book have been written about by anthropologists and other writers before and since Graves but The White Goddess is certainly the best known.Graves own words:"language of poetic myth anciently current in the Mediterranean and Northern Europe was a magical language bound up with popular religious ceremonies in honor of the Moon-goddess, or Muse, some of them dating from the Old Stone Age, and that this remains the language of true poetry..."Graves posited that the downfall of the Goddess worship in old Europe was due to the rise of patriarchal religions stemming from the Judeo-Christian mythos.It is a wonderfully structured essay which is why I gave it five stars.
I find this book particularly overrated. It is used as a basis to establish a geneaology for modern paganism. However, it is one supposition based upon another. Very faulty logic.
Francesca Lia Block made me read this. I have no idea if this man is insane or not but I was young enough when I read it that it blew my mind anyway.
Illogical, unscientific, ahistorical, and weirdly entertaining.
This is a difficult read so if you're not a lover of mythology, it's not for you. However, if you want to take the next leap Graves is the man you're looking for. Brilliant!
It's the unofficial Golden Bough sequel the world was clamoring for!
At the long last, after many years of occasional remindings that I should read this book, I sort of did - skipping through a lot as I'm not good at digesting nonsense.
Sweet nonsense it is, but still...
Do not get confused by the title's claim.
The book has very little to do with historical research in the modern sense.
It's interesting and amusing to observe that ancient methodology applied to Celtic myths and legends.
Graves did not research the myths - he recycled and revived them, to the joy of some neo-pagan folk who now have their own holy script to study.
At the same time, he examines the myth of the Year King (the template for many of the narratives about Jesus) and the Sun God, and again, connects the various legends through their common manifestations of differently named gods.It was also interesting to me how much crosscultural intellectual pollination was going on in the prehistoric world, and though Graves often takes leaps that staid professionals would never dare, even when he's clearly stretching, he is still generally interesting.There are also many chapters devoted to the alphabet, and its relation to the calendar (and vice versa), and though the connection to his main theme is sometimes tenuous, this too has its charms.
"A prodigious, monstrous, stupefying, indescribable book ..."***** A Five Star Poetry Book: Recommended for All Readers[Note: this book exists in numerous editions; this review is based on The White Goddess: A Historical Grammar of Poetic Myth, Amended and Enlarged Edition  (Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 1966 and later), which is the edition I'd recommend to interested readers.]This is a popular, influential, and controversial book.
The shoddy anthropology, etymology and linguistic study Graves marches out in support of the book's thesis - that All True Poetry praises The White Goddess and everything else, like things that aren't Scottish, are crap - is kind of awe inspiring.
Graves drove me bats for most of the book, but he drove me bats in a way that was way useful.
Wrong with it, it gave me something I needed, and so I'm glad I read it.I lost count of how many times I swore at the book, but I think my favorite was when he dismisses the whole of Japanese poetry out of hand in *maybe* a paragraph.
An overview of archaic Welsh bardic poetry. It is complex and a little hard to follow, but rewarding once you understand the long involved explanations, real poetry will never be the same and after re reading this book a few times you will know real poetry when you read it. I am re-reading this book for the seventh or eighth time and still learning things from it.
I say Awesome since I do enjoy Cynthia's poetry Myself anyway!:)
Da questa tesi/convinzione, Graves tenta di dimostrare che le varie mitologie gallesi, irlandesi, mediorientali, greca e romana sono dunque connesse , e tutte rimandano in qualche modo alla Triplice Dea, che ritorna silente anche nella religione cristiana.Per Graves esiste un pensare in prosa e un pensare in poesia, e il primo pensare ha soppiantato il secondo: risulta quasi impossibile “risolvere il discorso nelle sue immagini e nei suoi ritmi originali, per poi ricombinarli a più livelli di pensiero simultaneamente”.
