https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3339527-all-art-is-propaganda
Orwell notes "There is reason to think that Gandhi, who after all was born in 1869, did not understand totalitarianism and saw everything in terms of his own struggle against the British Government."Orwell also asks "Was Hitler sane?"While reading these two essays, which both focus on 'Pacifism', I thought, what a discussion it would be to sit around with some GR friends, especially those who's reviews I admire.In the essay No, Not One Orwell reviews a novel 'No Such Liberty' by Alex Comfort, which sounds very interesting but doesn't appear to be easy to find.
S. Eliot's poetry, however, and calls him 'Petainist'.Also discusses the role of popular culture - the bland and repetitive nature of boy's action magazines, cheesy sex humor and pornography.Boys' Weeklies - http://www.orwell.ru/library/essays/b...The Art of Donald McGill - http://www.orwell.ru/library/reviews/...Orwell's essays on politics, propaganda, and the use of language are among the best of the lot.
- http://www.online-literature.com/orwe...Propaganda and Demotic Speech - http://www.wordpirate.com/Below%20Dec...
Good Bad Books - http://george-orwell.org/Good_Bad_Boo...The Prevention of Literature - http://orwell.ru/library/essays/preve...Politics and the English Language - https://www.mtholyoke.edu/acad/intrel...Politics vs.
Literature: An Examination of Gulliver's Travels - http://www.netcharles.com/orwell/essa...Lear, Tolstoy, and the Fool - http://www.orwell.ru/library/essays/l...Confessions of a Book Reviewer - http://orwell.ru/library/articles/rev...Writers and Leviathan - http://orwell.ru/library/articles/lev...
Reading George Orwell's essays and reviews is not so much that I agree or disagree with him, but the fact that I admire his prose writing.
In an odd way, he reminds me at times of Roland Barthes.
Perhaps for the reason that I have been reading Barthes time-to-time the past twenty years or so.
Still, Orwell's approach and thinking about the English language is very thoughtful, and especially in these times (like always) it's good to remind us how flexible language is, and it depends on how one uses the English language and for what purposes.
This was really a provocative read. Orwell is such a clear writer, and independent thinker, that you find yourself fruitfully mulling over issues you have never really thought about before. This is a collection of essays and reviews, and is well worth every minute spent on it. Fantastic.
Reading his straightforward prose style is like talking to a friend who just happens to have thought deeply about all levels of art, ranging from Charles Dickens and Salvador Dali to dirty postcards and boys' adventure magazines.
Contrasting the inconsistency of Dickens's plots with the richness of his detail, for example, Orwell writes "rotten architecture, but wonderful gargoyles."I had previously read many essays in this book in other volumes, so I focused mainly those that were new to me, along with a few favorites.
But for the Orwell essay aficionado, All Art is Propaganda is a solid and engaging compilation of his critical writing.
تصبح الكتابة عملاً شاقاً حين تنتقد أحد أعمال كُتابك المفضلين.
ولأن أورويل يدرك أن الأدب الروائي هو نوع الأدب المفضل لدى العامة, صُممت رواياته لتناسب الفكرة التي تمحورت حولها مقالاته, أقتبس هذا النص من روايته 1984:"Don't you see that the whole aim of Newspeak is to narrow the range of thought?
Every year fewer and fewer words, and the range of consciousness always a little smaller."في نهاية الأمر, أتمنى أن تتلقى مقالات أورويل ذات الإهتمام الذي تلقته أعماله الروائية؛ لأنه يحمل رسالة تستحق النشر, ولأنه أحد الكتاب القلة الذين حين تقرأ لهم لا تملك سوا أن تتفق معهم.
Now, totalitarianism is the hot new buzz word, and Orwell is back on the bestseller lists.****“A totalitarian state is in effect a theocracy, and its ruling caste, in order to keep its position, has to be thought of as infallible.
All other freedoms---of religion, of the press, of bearing arms---stem from this freedom.Expression---of one’s feelings, opinions, criticisms---is where all Art comes from, which is perhaps why Orwell liked to repeat the phrase, “All Art is Propaganda”.
Because every word he wrote came from a place that valued social justice and freedom of thought.This is why it’s heartening to see Orwell back on the bestseller lists and popular again.
I NEVER THOUGHT I'D LOVE ESSAYS SO MUCH AND I WISH I COULD WRITE ESSAYS ABOUT THESE ESSAYS AS GOOD AS THESE ESSAYS BUT I CANNOT. I JUST CANNOT.
Orwell: All Art is Propaganda: Critical Essays In a column on the most famous essay included in this new volume, 'Politics and the English Language' (1946) Robert Fulford drops the rather original suggestion that Orwell's failure to notice Churchill's splendid wartime speeches--in an essay eplicitly devoted to rigorous analysis of double talk and obfuscation in the political rhetoric of his day--was a proof of Orwell's reverse snobbery. Que? Truth is you could make a pretty good case for Orwell
Orwell: All Art is Propaganda: Critical Essays	In a column on the most famous essay included in this new volume, 'Politics and the English Language' (1946) Robert Fulford drops the rather original suggestion that Orwell's failure to notice Churchill's splendid wartime speeches--in an essay eplicitly devoted to rigorous analysis of double talk and obfuscation in the political rhetoric of his day--was a proof of Orwell's reverse snobbery.
What would he have accomplished by heaping praise on Churchill as a master political rhetorician in an essay otherwise completely taken up with negative examples?
no, anymore than Churchill's language was sufficient in itself to defeat Germany's war machine.
All Art is Propaganda, this volume, includes essays where Orwell holds something up for critical scrutiny.
These two books, one of narrative the other of analysis, include four dozen essays.
Over six feet tall, Orwell stood in a trench telling his fellow soldiers about brothels he visited in Paris when a bullet hit his throat, missing his esophagus.
Speeches and writing aimed at a large public needs to take ignorance of the masses into account, laments Orwell.
This essay crystallized his thoughts for “Nineteen Eighty-Four,” which he began writing a few months later.
Other worthwhile essays in here include “Good Bad Books” and “Confessions of a Book Reviewer.”
One of the most insightful books I have ever read.
It ranges in its scope from the literature of Charles Dickens to the art and life of Salvador Dali.
Orwell touches on the subjects of writing, language, politics, religion, life, art, death and so much more in between.
Coming away from reading this book, I am increased in my admiration for George Orwell.
I admire Orwell's staple books such as 1984 and Animal Farm (art in themselves) for the great books that they are, but after reading this book I admire George Orwell (the man) for the thinking and analytic human being that he was.
Though Orwell is famous for writing about political issues, every writer should read this book, because it’s not only about politics, this book is a lot about what writers think of other writers’ work.
George Packer’s fascinating introduction reveals that Orwell also reviewed books which I didn’t know.
Throughout those years Russia means Tolstoy, Dostoievski and exiled counts driving taxi-cabs...”Reading Orwell’s words made me wonder what he write about today’s authors.
His “1984” has been reviewed more than 6,000 times, his “Animal Farm” close to 4,000 times, on Amazon.Orwell writes that Tolstoy spent a lot of time denunciating Shakespeare, yet if he hadn’t also written “Anna Karenina” and “War and Peace,” nobody would care, and his pamphlet about Shakespeare would be forgotten.Which is a comforting thought.
Things like the continuance of British rule in India, the Russian purges and deportations, the dropping of the atom bombs on Japan, can indeed be defended, but only by arguments which are too brutal for most people to face, and which do not square with the professed aims of political parties.
Thus political language has to consist largely of euphemism, question-begging and sheer cloudy vagueness.
The way ahead, he says is not a Yogic renunciation like that of Tolstoy or Gandhi, nor is it intellectual theorisation of kind say Communism as whole, but rather that of struggle, to the ideal of kind of Social democracy, and a liberal commitment to literature and its propagation.His critical appraisal of Dickens, Kipling , Graham Greene gives a deep insight into his understanding of way literature is not separated from politics and any writer that tends to promote conservative pacifism over socialist democracy is merely accepting the injustices of world.
Published posthumously (I think), and mostly a collection of book reviews, Orwell is able to present his perspective on what he reads or thinks about in a deceptively transparent way.
Yet when we consider G, H, I, we are led to believe A, B, C, and furthermore, J, K, L.When reading Orwell's essays in this collection, one gets the sense that he is bending over backwards to both express his opinion as thoroughly as possible and yet be as charitable as he can be regarding the subjects he is writing about.
This review doesn't do enough justice to the book, but definitely this will be one I will re-read later.
Some of this was a little over my head, since it was discussing authors and books I haven't read. But, that said, one of my favorite parts was the essay about Rudyard Kipling, and I've read next to nothing by Kipling. My other favorite was the discussion of utopian fiction in "Can Socialists be Happy?" And I was pleased to hear Orwell echo my own thoughts on writing in dialect: it's terrible, and writers "should know better."
It was interesting to see his views from that time period, and scary how much of what he was saying politically could be applied to today. The wide range of topics makes this tricky to review, but I am struck by how well he writes an argument. He must use outlines, and I am envious of a time in history when people were so well read and contemplative.
A really great book shows us how everything is great and worth to die for
Totalitarianism demands, in fact, the continuous alteration of the past, and in the long run probably demands a disbelief in the very existence of objective truth.
(258-59)His famous essay “Politics and the English Language,” goes into more depth and detail on how the truth is altered by government officials, something he saw firsthand when fighting in the Spanish Civil War. Orwell does not, however, only aim his guns at the obvious targets of Russia, Germany, and Italy.
Contradicting Wells again, Orwell states there was no inevitability to Hitler and his like failing.
I think it’s often missed that George Orwell was primarily a journalist and essayist, not a novelist.
It’s engrossing and honest and easily accessible and that most definitely applies to this collection of essays All Art is Propaganda.
Here, Orwell discusses a variety of topics such as the complete works of Charles Dickens and how his Englishness is embedded in his works to the point where he’s unable to sympathize with the working man, to TS Elliott, to the idea of utopianism and how, ironically, our idea of a work-free utopia would be the opposite of what we would want.
A good introduction to Orwell the essayist.
They range from drama and film reviews to Orwell's opinion of Gandhi.
Included are reviews that are only relevant to the time written (e.g., theater reviews, a discussion of colored postcards) or aspects of culture that are no longer applicable (e.g., Raffles).
It does contain two of his more important essays - "The Prevention of Literature" and "Politics and the English Language." Although written over 50 years ago, both are relevant in a world of speech codes in university and other settings.
Orwell's position is that these restrictions are evidence of totalitarian rule.
He had opinions on writers, world-leaders, capitalism, Nazism, socialism and communism (and any other -ism).
Another essay titled Boys' Weeklies on the books that English boys grew up reading during the early 20th century was interesting, especially in comparison today with kids play video games and watch others play video games on YouTube.
I think Orwell was a brilliant writer but a little to far to the left politically for my taste.
One thing I learned from reading his essays is that Orwell had a hatred for capitalism and totalitarianism, which made socialism and even communism more acceptable to him, though he didn't have much good to say for communism.
One of the great themes of this collection of 1940s essays is that writers must really fight to think through what they write about, rather than simply produce propaganda for their political "side." It will not surprise those who have read Animal Farm and 1984 that Orwell saw totalitarian politics as a great threat to honest writing.
It was really a joy to see him think through the various topics in this collection and link them to broader trends in literature and politics.
My favorites were "Inside the Whale," "Wells, Hitler and the World State," "Can Socialists Be Happy?" and "Politics and the English Language."
I like this book.
To understand why that is a sufficient review, read the essay titled "Writers and Leviathan".
But of course I feel the need to say more, so I will say: read this book to figure out if Orwell is on your side.
If you are not sure, think about what your side is.
He is not a trivial man and the things he says are not so easy to digest, if only because you're not quite sure what you are eating (reading).One helpful note: If you only read one chapter from this, make sure it's "Politics and the English Language".
Orwell is great.Moving on, here's a few things I found interesting:Firstly, a lot of these essays are criticisms of popular literature from Orwell's era: books I haven't read.
And his take on sainthood, the difference between God and Man, has a lot of power in explaining the divide between the modern right and left.It's so eerie how similar some of his observations are that you tend to think maybe we're not so much a decadent society, since if Orwell could have the same things to say decades ago, and we're still here, then doesn't that kind of make the point that we're not going to hell as quickly as or in the way that the doomsday professors claim?
This book is a collection of critical essays on various topics related to popular culture written between 1940-1949. The point Orwell comes back to repeatedly serves as the title: All Art Is Propaganda. That is, no piece of art can be created without presenting some aspect of the artist's beliefs. Orwell's opinions throughout are clearly influenced by the politics and world events of the time. It's not light reading, but it is interesting and thought-provoking.
This collection of critical essays written in the 1940’s offers a range of the author’s expertise. Boy was he smart, evidenced by his ability to synthesize material in a way rarely seen in such broad array of topics. My rating reflects the fact that the content is just more than I care to consider on these topics. The reviews are of events and material that is dated yet the concepts are eerily relevant to the current political times. I would have edited some essays out to limit the repetition.
An essential read for an increasingly frightening time. "No, Not One," Orwell's review of a WW2 isolationist novel, somehow settles the current debate over whether to punch a Nazi. Keith Gessen writes in the introduction: "Look around you. Describe what you see as an ordinary observer -- for you are one, you know -- would see them. Take things seriously. And tell the truth. Tell the truth." I want to tattoo that on my face.
George Orwell is best known for his works 1984 and Animal Farm. However, often lost to history is the fact Orwell was an all-around excellent writer and that includes essays.Whether he's doing a film review of Charlie Chaplin's The Great Dictator, discussing language, talking about Gandhi, or even bringing up happiness within socialism; Orwell is a thought provoking writer.If you enjoy his fiction work or love a good essay, definitely read this.
I read 3 essays in this book, one on Gandhi that was the best for me to read, as it reported honestly on Gandhi's ethical and moral achievement in bringing India independence from Britain almost non-violently. "Politics and the English Language" is worth reading and re-reading as citizens come to work against propaganda in daily life.
