https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/579819.Ride_the_Pink_Horse
He was the one without existence, the dream figure wandering in this dreadful nightmare...' ) ; a sunny waitress at one of the rich cantinas gives him a smile; a Chicago cop named McIntyre urges him to mend his ways:  'The world doesn't care much what happens to us.
It's up to you.' But Sailor's nightmare is one of his own making and in true noir/existentialist fashion the labyrinth only leads back to the center, to the fateful Plaza and not back to the real world.
Hughes uses this exotic background and the confluence of Indians, Hispanics and gringos to add an exotic touch to the narrative, underscoring major beats in the plot with scenes of great mythic and visceral resonance drawn from the festivities in this town or from Sailor's encounters with the locals: a man who runs a ramshackle merry-go-round and emerges as a sort of tentative father figure and good angel, a little Indian girl in town for the fiesta who evokes Sailor's own lost innocence and a meeting with the Fates in the form of three Spanish slum women who administer herbal medicine to Sailor.
A classic noir, in which a scoundrel named Sailor and a police chief separately follow a corrupt senator to a border town celebrating its fiesta. This background is incredible, with the symbolic effigy burning and many good details about race and class. The title refers to carousel horses. From 1946. The only real female in the story is Pila, the young Indian girl who befriends Sailor.
It's a claustrophobic read, in a good, noir way.
I've given a brief plot summary at my reading journal; if you don't want to know, then just skip ahead to my thoughts here, but just as a heads-up, this is definitely NOT a book where plot takes center stage.
It is not a full on action-packed thriller, and it moves a bit slowly because Hughes invests her time in her people rather than just focusing on crime -- just my kind of book.
Hughes is an excellent writer, and in my opinion, she holds her own against any male author of the time, making it a complete shame that she is not more widely read or appreciated.
That's a strangely sexy title you're wearing, book.
This is my second read from Dorothy Hughes (the other one I read was In a Lonely Place), and from what I gather, she has an uncanny ability to project an aura of isolation, alienation and elements of a brutal world that has darkness and corruptibility.
Amid Sailor’s search for the Sen, there is also a third character thrown into the mix, a street wise cop named MacIntyre, who,(of all things) just happens to be in Santa Fe too.
While there are some repetitive moments within the plot, and the subsequent revealing of events amid Sailor’s chase for the Sen, Ride the Pink Horse, over all, is a very fine noir.
I'm a Dorothy B. Hughes groupie, and oh man was this a stonker. A tale of last chances, bad decisions, revenge, and faith playing out in a small Spanish-American town during a three-day fiesta. Ugh, so so good.
Ride The Pink Horse was also turned into a film featuring Robert Montgomery, and after reading the original I shall certainly look out for the film.The novel revolves around the key figure of Sailor, who appears in a small town on the border of Mexico, he has travelled from Chicago in search of his boss the Sen. However, on arrival he finds he has hit town just as the Fiesta is taking place, and the Sen is trying to romance the heiress Iris Towers.
Hughes manages to show this through Sailor's attitude to the Mexicans and the Mexicans attitude to the Native Americans who are visiting their town.
The unease of an alien land, of darkness and silence, of strange tongues and a stranger people, of unfamiliar smells, even the cool-of-night smell unfamiliar…The panic of loneness; of himself the stranger although he was himself unchanged, the creeping loss of identity.‘Only the Indians are proud peoples…Because they do not care for nothing.
The way you didn’t want a woman to smile at a murderer.The whole town was a trap.
Trapped by the unknown, by a foreign town and foreign tongues and the ways of alien men.
She seems to specialize in purposeful alienation, to create characters that you don't like but whom you begin to root for, almost against your will.
Characters that pit themselves against the world they live in and those that people it, but for base rather than noble reasons.
The characters in this book, like the setting, have no great and noble reason to loom larger than life.
This story is just a story, but like all good stories, it is also timeless, the repetition of an echo in the world.
It follows Sailor, ex-secretary (and sometimes-muscle man) for Senator Willis Douglass, on a journey to New Mexico to make his former boss pay up for services rendered.
Also in town is McIntyre, Chicago detective who wants to know who really killed the Senator's wife and is determined to find out.
McIntyre seems to think that there's still hope for Sailor, but will the Senator's gunman change his ways?There were sections of the book that I really liked--the conversations between Sailor and McIntyre were very good as the copper tries to influence the crook.
I loved Dorothy Hughes' 1947 novel "In a Lonely Place," one of the first novels to have a serial killer as a protagonist.
(The movie adaptation of that novel is also excellent but very different than the book.) "Ride the Pink Horse," written in 1946, was not be as involving as that novel but it's pretty good.
Hughes adopts a tough masculine persona to tell this story - which at times reminded me a bit of the Dashiell Hammett of "Red Harvest." The book is densely written.
But it has an involving anti-hero protagonist - and other odd, off-beat characters weave in and out of the story.
This is one of the most hard-boiled things I've ever read. Great, dark and moody. Unlike some of the other pulp writers I've read, Dorothy Hughes has a somewhat poetic sensibility that somewhat elevates this book beyond the realm of "mere" crime fiction. She's really a pleasure to read. Fun, mean, sad, hopeless. Beware the racism, also.
Dull, boring, repetitive, this book lacks all tension or excitement. It drones on and on repeating itself over and over. It's a 20 page short story that was told 10 times to make a 200 page book. Awful. Don't bother to read it. Waste of time.
Dorothy Hughes seems incapable of doing anything wrong in a book, based on the few I've read so far.
This 1946 novel tells a hardboiled Chicago tough guy story of murder, betrayal, and corruption.
She takes this tough Chicago characters, particularly the lead character, "Sailor," and puts them in Santa Fe, New Mexico during Fiesta week.
It thus becomes a tale of a stranger in a strange land with most of the story, written in beautiful prose, about how this tough guy from corrupt mobbed-up Chicago is completely out of his element in this new region.
Be forewarned that through much of the book the Chicago story takes a backseat to the sights and sounds of the great festival and this plodding tough guy dressed in his Chicago suit and carrying his Chicago grudges never quite fits in.

This is not one of her best works. Crisp writing style and strong character development match her better novels, but the plot drags, especially toward the end.
The attitudes, though, are correctly paired with the point of view of a hardboiled kinda Chi-town "wiseguy" dropped into the middle of a place and event that, for all he knows, might as well be on the other side of the world.The whole thing is really a nightmare from beginning to end--readers will notice that almost from the start the story has the feeling of a nightmare where dangerous things lurk just out of sight, you realize that someone is tracking you and you never see him unless he wants you to, you're lost and unable to communicate with anyone, you're somewhere and something is going on that leaves you totally disoriented and unable to employ the survival skills that you developed in the big city, after overcoming many obstacles to meet someone, you are always arriving just a few minutes after he has gone, and as you circle around the city, looking for a place to stop for the night, you find yourself suddenly aware that you are back in places that you have already traversed.
Comparisons to Cain are apt - there is little violence in the novel, and is more about the main character, Sailor, trying to get the pay off he deserves.Set over the 3 days of Labor Day Fiesta in Santa Fe in the '30's, when the town was more Hispanic and Indian than "artist".
Chicago tough guy Sailor feels like a stranger in this town, and by the end of the 3 days funds his speech filled w/ the occasional Spanish word.
The other thing I love about her is she keeps her novels to about 200 pp - not these overblown works that best selling mystery writers foist on us now-a-days.
I stumbled on "Ride the Pink Horse" after unsuccessfully searching for Hughes' "In a Lonely Place" at my library, and recognized the title due to Robert Montgomery's 1947 film adaptation, and decided to give it a try.
To my surprise, I couldn't put it down until I'd finished it!
It's problematic, slightly repetitive, often morally simplistic, and maybe a little too long, but it also has a fascinating setting, an interesting protagonist and side characters, and a fantastic ending.
It's an odd mix of hardboiled crime novel, moral treatise, and horror western, and one whose curious images I won't easily forget.
Wow, every Dorothy Hughes book i read is different, but always hard boiled literary pulp. Prefiguring patty highsmith, and jim thompson, Hughes brings a fresh noir palette to each book. Ride the Pink Horse has a wild carnival atmosphere set in a small new mexico town, with Sailor, one of the greatest greasy gangsters with a heart of gold you will meet. Strangers on a train level sweaty nervous tension meets under the volcano existential fiesta noir or sonething.so cinematic, there is a movie, directed by quirky actor director Robert Montgomery. I am going to watch that tomorrow night.
Top notch read by Dorothy Hughes set in the 1930s/40s during a three-day local festival in the old Southwest in a village set distant from Albuquerque, New Mexico. Bus-weary from his cross-country ride, the tough from Chicago skulks hotel room-less through the town trying to find the ex-Senator politico who owes him money for a shady job. Fantastic writing, character development, suspense, mood, and pace, topped by literary commentary of the class strata.
Not quite sure what I was expecting from this book, which I bought on a whim a few weeks ago. The pulpy narration is completely over the top in places, the characterization is completely leaden, and the ending is rather predictable. At the same time, it's worth a read, though the book made me curious to know more about the author than anything.
More a study of the inner turmoil of Sailor, waiting for his escape, but trapped and homeless in a hot, dirty town during a Thor-day festival, than it is a mystery.
Hughes made my end-of-year highlights with her classic noir novel In a Lonely Place, the story of a damaged ex-Air Force pilot named Dix Steele.
Written in a tough, hardbitten style, Pink Horse was published in 1946, the year before Lonely Place.
I think it’s my favourite of the dozen or so crime novels I’ve read this year.The novel focuses on Sailor, a former street kid turned city slicker who has travelled to a ‘hick town’ near the US border with Mexico in search of the main man, a corrupt state Senator referred to here as ‘the Sen’.
You see the whole setting and the characters in black and white as you read.
You can smell the sweat and you can feel the heat.
Along with the sweat and the heat, the feeling of anxiety, helplessness, and despair are palpable.
My highest compliment to a book is that you are there while reading it and this one puts you there.
It wouldn’t have worked anywhere but in the time and place that Hughes put it.
This book is of its time and there are some racist passages so read it with the understanding that it was published in 1946.
A hard-boiled noir novel from the 1940s with heavy classic themes, perhaps original sin in this case, that rises to the level of great literature.
Which will he choose?The restraint of the prose in this book was really admirable.
(I felt the influence of Hemingway in it.) I also read In a Lonely Place (a great book made into a weak movie with Humphrey Bogart) by the same author.
That was also great.
Strong writing and sense of place are not enough to save this noir story about a disgruntled crook who plans to blackmail his crime lord boss.
Too much happens off camera and the story wanders into literary passages, not necessarily a bad thing, but the protagonist, an unappealing character by the name of Sailor, doesn’t warrant the reader’s sympathy, especially with his racist view of Latinos, a trait which is meant to be hardboiled and benign but simply doesn’t wear well in today’s world.
If you haven’t read 'In a Lonely Place' or 'The Expendable Man', read those instead, and find out what really makes Dorothy B.

