https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/365412.The_Collected_Stories
We're blinded to the beauty in our own lives,But I was taking all that I could get,For five or six hours in the month of July, ......The summer I read Colette.Rosanne Cash My "summer of Colette" occurred in 2003 and 2004 when I read Gigi and Julie de Carneilhan and My Mother's House & Sido. (No, I'm not sure why her books are packaged as twofers. . .) In these exceptionally casual times, it's easy to forget how important it once was to behave in a proper and mannerly fashion, and how many r
We're blinded to the beauty in our own lives,But I was taking all that I could get,For five or six hours in the month of July, ......The summer I read Colette.Rosanne Cash
My "summer of Colette" occurred in 2003 and 2004 when I read Gigi and Julie de Carneilhan and My Mother's House & Sido.
How charming to think that once upon a time, a family could be scandalized by something as silly as a man appearing in public without a hat.
There was something strangely calming in the reading of these books.
Colette's work seems to take some time to unfold, to really capture the reader.
I've spent all of April with Colette and the one hundred stories in this collection. And I have loved every minute!The book is divided into sections: Early Stories (I especially enjoyed the seven 'Dialogues For One Person' there), Backstage At The Music Hall, Varieties Of Human Nature, and Love.The Sick Child will stay with me a long time, as will many others, too many to list! Any good writer will notice details in life that other people overlook, then add imagination to create a mini-world for the reader to visit. Colette was a master at this art. I want more!
Why didn't anyone tell me how amazing she is?I am still reading this collection but there are so many stories that I won't be able to read all -- or even most -- of them before it goes back to the library, so now is as good a time as any to jot down some thoughts.I wanted an introduction to Colette's writing and these stories have done much more than whet my appetite.
I look forward to reading more of these stories and to reading much more of Colette's work.
The stories are flimsy, held up only by poetic description and the characters are so very shallow.
Her themes are mostly based on her pessimistic view of relationship and that is just about all she has to say.
I get it but it is depressing that she really seemed to live her life based on this belief.
I did like 2 stories out of the 100--"Dawn" and "April." "The Kepi" is her greatest story, profoundly depressing but unforgettable.
I can't say I liked it but I also can't forget it.
These 3 stories are her best.
These are largely really more like sketches and monologues than short stories, and as most of them feature Colette, or a facsimile of herself, either as narrator or main character, it feels like a series of biographical fragments rather than a collection of stories.Collected Stories had very little of the pull which I was expecting.
I enjoyed a couple of the stories, but the plots included were largely very thin on the ground, and the characters difficult to connect with.White's translation felt seamless, and I had no problem with the prose itself.
Collected Stories feels like an anomaly in what I have read of Colette's thus far.
1) The Other Table2) The Screen3) Clouk Alone4) Clouk's Fling5) Cheri6) The Return7) The Pearls8) Li
I almost didn't want to review this book.
I want to keep this as my secret source of joy and inspiration, much in a way I might keep a secret lover.
This is a collection of short stories, some no more than a page or two; they are more like sketches of a scene or a character.
And if you've been following my reviews, you know I emphasize the importance of strong plot.
Well, there is always an exception to the rule, and when the writing is this good .
The stories are translated by a group of translators, but the voice feels consistent.
The editor was good, I guess.
Years ago, I read a short story by Colette (AKA Sidonie-Gabrielle Colette)in Freshman English - it was about a woman dressed in a pieroette costume who felt very liberated because she was wearing a mask and could behave in a very sensual manner.
It was written in the early part of the 20th century.
I found a copy of her collected stories last week at my local (wonderful) bookshop, the Raconteur in Metuchen, and am digging in and really enjoying it.
But to enjoy, you must read s-l-o-w-l-y.
I'm dipping into this book for the umpteenth time. Not one to read cover to cover, but I love Colette's steely-eyed view of the world - underneath all the love of nature and intense sensory detail is a hard-headed cynic. I've just reread The rainy moon, a haunting story about a woman's obsessive hatred for her ex-husband, set against the narrator Colette's memories of an unhappy but less bitter love affair that took place in the same flat years before.
What a fabulous introduction to this clever writer. Sugar coating disguises sometimes bitter, sometimes sharp observations of people and their motivations. This is a great book to take on holiday or dip into when you have a few minutes over a coffee.
I am struck at how contemporary her voice is particularly the series of vignettes with a one-sided conversation.
Whenever my world gets to be too much, I escape into Colette's charming, colorful, and entirely French world.
Took me a while to get into these stories, but once I did I thoroughly enjoyed them.
Reading Collette can be like watching an utterly transfixing French film; her descriptive powers are so strong that the French homes, gardens and cafes surround you, as you eavesdrop on the people who inhabit them.
She can justify a long paragraph detailing a staircase and nothing else; she can tell an entire story in two sentences.
How could you not have included (fill in Cheri and keep going).Which prompts this - Collette's stories are like a white, bone china bowl of crimson cherries; voluptuous, feminine and romantic, promising and containing a certain sweetness.
And that perfect bowl of perfect fruit take on an entirely different light.
I read this collection from cover to cover one summer c.1990 and I think this is the best way to introduce someone to the works of Colette.One reason I love her writing is because she puts you THERE in France during the turn of the 20th century and up to the jazz age.
Colette's life as a stage performer, and more or less, starving artist coupled with her divorced status at a time when divorce was considered damning gives her a unique perspective of the world that is far from the genteel image that history may want you to believe.
Read Colette's stories and be swept away.
I adore the sensual style and subtlety of her writing; unfortunately, I did not care for the way the editor attempted to beat me over the head with it.
The editor really should have trimmed some of the fat here and done away with about a third of the stories included in this collection.
The weaker, the repetitive, and the boring could have been scrapped without missing a thing about the beauty that is Colette, and I would have been a much happier reader giving at least another star to this rating.
This large book was indeed amazing! Beautiful even, she writes so well that is envious. I am even convinced that she writes like a female Oscar Wilde. Some stories are more glorious than others...but it isn't easy to find favourites. I enjoyed most were: My Goddaughter, Grape Harvest, The Fox, The Half-Crazy, The Watchman, Bella-Vista and April. I got this from the library and would in fact like to own a copy. Despite her years as 1873-1954 she is still a modern writer, one I feel won't age. Well worth reading no matter what one's prefered reading genre is.
I finally finished this 600 page book after putting it down and picking it up over the last year. Collette's writing is magnificent. She is very obviously adept at observing human relationships and small banal moments and turns them into beautiful and intriguing stories. I felt like I was privy to her personal memories. I plan to hold on to this book and reread it multiple times.
In selecting this book, I thought that perhaps there would be some of Colette's stories that I hadn't read before, but after sampling several of them they all seemed so familiar that I decided not to read any more. She writes well, but I think they were better for me when I was first discovering the world.
This is a reread, and I reread it one-and-a-half times through this time as prep/research for one of my own stories. Her longer, later works are a little to detail heavy and involved, but the middle ones are excellent! Especially the Valentine ones. Light, beautiful, flashes of deepness, spare. Would that I could--perhaps I can.
My first encounter with Colette and it was one well-worth the time. She captures Paris at that time in history perfectly and with such fervor it makes you want to travel back in time. She is a very human writer, depicting humanity with passion, feeling, and sensuality.
Colette would disapprove, but this is my in-betweener book. I don't typically tend to be drawn to short stories, but I'll read pretty much anything Colette has written. Whenever I do pick up a story here and there, I'm reminded of just how fabulous she truly is.
I have read and re-read every story in my copy many times. Does anybody give you all five senses in every scene, without distracting from the story? I'm afraid to order it for my Kindle, for fear I'll be tempted to dip into it, instead of reading my assignments. . . .
So much to say! Yet I don't want to spoil anything. READ THIS!
the first colette i've read, and some of the most intriguing, wonderful short stories ever. they are clever and bright--always surprising and intuitive.
camille's named after a cat in a story in this book
:(
well he was certainly dreamy. there's just something about french literature that i simply can't put a finger on, but i love it all the same.
Reading again...just love this book. I should probably look into getting others by Colette I know she has many more to offer
pearl and onyx
