https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42528.Crusade_in_Europe
Good solid auto-biography of Eisenhower's war years.
One of the things that comes out in the book is that Eisenhower believed in the concept of allies.
Another aspect that emerges when reading the book is that Eisenhower was a professional soldier through and through.
If it had been me in the same situation I might have done the same thing." Another aspect that I found interesting is that Eisenhower talks about criticism that was directed at him and the allied command in the press.
As I stated at the beginning of this review it's a good, solid biography of Ike's war years.
Brilliant writer, lessons in logistics and management applicable to many fields. His commitment to America and the wellbeing of every soldier in his command is inspiring.
I am currently reading this vast memoir of Supreme Allied Commander, General Eisenhower.
He was fully prepared to take responsibility for any disaster that might befall the Allied armies on D Day. He was not a prima donna, and you see his character shine through as he deals with a brash General Patton, a vain Field Marshal Montgomery, and the 20 hour days to which he became accustomed.
Eisenhower was the absolute right man for the job he had, and while far from perfect, he possessed the qualities needed to hold an unwieldy coalition of allies together until final victory.
It is certainly not as exhilarating and inspiring as Winston Churchill’s memoirs, but it does rank among one of the major works on World War II by one who was directly involved during those tumultuous years.Eisenhower does come across as one who disdained pomp and ceremony – witness his signing of the surrender by Jodl or his refusal to honour or even partake of coffee with captured enemy officers.At times he does seem to gloss over military blunders, like at Kasserine, but perhaps that is why he was so popular with his colleagues by refusing to dwell and lay blame or assign mistakes.
However he does focus more on the prestige of American forces than on the British – and even less on the Canadians.His conversations with Marshall Zhukov at wars end are illuminating in the distinction of human values between these two alleged allies.
I've been fascinated with Dwight Eisenhower for many years now. I wondered what to expect from this book. Call me pleasantly surprised! This book was even better than I expected. What a rare man he was, and truly a gift to our country at a time when we needed a great leader most.
Outstanding book! A must for all especially those interested in WWII history.
Fantastically clear telling of one of Humanity's worst nightmares.
Any intimation that they are the victims of unfair treatment understandably arouses their anger and resentment, and the feeling can sweep through a command like wildfire.p. 337There was certainly no other nation in the world that could have supplied, repaired, and supported the great fleet of motor transportation that the American armed forces used in World War II.p. 354No responsible individual in war is ever free of mental strain; in battles such as the one initiated by the German attack in the Ardennes, this reaches a peak.
Excellent Autobiography; technical yet concise, specific but clear.
Ike takes us on a journey from the launch of Torch to the surrender of the Reich.
He does not attempt to dazzle the reader and provides a remarkably human perspective on the giant personalities of WWII to include Churchill, Montgomery, and Patton.
Historians have argued that Ike's memoirs rank a close second to the famously majestic prose of Ulysses Grant in the annals of wartime leaders, and while his personal style may be more to the point than Grant, it struck me as a much easier read and just as packed with information.
Interesante hagiografía (casi) de precampaña presidencial.-Género.
Biografía (porque aunque tenga mucha Historia detrás, no deja de ser una autobiografía).Lo que nos cuenta.
Relato, de la mano del propio protagonista, de las vivencias y experiencias de Eisenhower (castrenses nada más) desde que empieza la Segunda Guerra Mundial hasta verano del 45, que nos muestra su intervención en un buen número de acciones de guerra muy conocidas y de gran importancia en las que tuvo que usar mucha mano izquierda para manejar a personalidades muy difíciles y con poder de forma que se cumpliesen los objetivos de guerra.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
I'm kind of with a lot of others on this where while I think this is an important book for anyone interested in WWII history Eisenhower takes too measured an approach in describing events and individuals involved. If you are looking for detailed insight from someone that was there forget it. It's a very dry administrative telling of the war along the lines of Sir Kenneth Strong's Intelligence at the Top.
Granted it was written in 1948 but it read like a clinical. Very little was written about what the author (in this case one of the major figures of the war) was thinking or what went behind many of the decisions or actions that occured.
Great read! Last few pages are a great reminder of who we are as a nation and a call to action that is needed now more than ever in our national history.
TO COIN A PHRASE, "A MAN AND A MOMENT MEET" IS TRULY APPROPRIATE IN THIS ERA.THE LOGISTICAL PLANNING NEEDED FOR A WORLD WAR IS MIND BOGGLING AN INFORMATIVEAND INSIGHTFUL READ.
“The individual now works differently; indeed, one of the most important characteristics of the successful officer today is his ability to continue changing his methods, almost even his mental processes, in order to keep abreast of the constant change that modern science, working under the compelling urge to national self-preservation, brings to the battlefield.
social issues, the impossibility of knowing everything and always being right, individual efforts (from generals to troops), the consequences of weather, seasonal considerations, the importance of unified command, team building, and morale.
Morale is critical, requiring many factors and constant effort.It is the fleshed out, rounded picture of war and people that makes it interesting.
Of course, he is an politically astute, or he would not have been able to do the job; so, he doesn't really give the dirt on people even while indicating problems.He fully understands the critical issues of logistics and the productive capacity of a nation at war.
He begins with an assessment of the condition of American military forces on the eve of war.
Ike shows how forces, both political and military, tried to get us ready to fight a war.
We then follow the career of Eisenhower from being part of the general staff in Washington to commander of the forces that invaded Africa in 1942.
Ike not only describes the military decisions, but also the delicate political decisions that had to be made.
Ike gives the reader a inside look of what it took to win the war.
There is no better way to learn the history of World War II, then to read the account of the man who led the Allies against the Axis.
Filled with Eisenhower's personal reflections and impressions, it is impossible not to be fully impressed with the man.
(His reflections on Patton made me laugh out loud a few times.) His progressive views on race can even be spotted in his reflections on the War. This is a man who not only led the Allies to victory in WW2 but is an obvious role model for anyone today.
Humble, intelligent and honorable, Eisenhower is an immortal American hero.
Eisenhower's recounting of the war in Europe is fascinating.
Probably no other individual could have wielded the disparate groups of allies together, militarily and politically, to win the war as expeditiously as he did.
Many things you may think you know about WWII are probably slight distortions of what really happened especially from movies taking dramatic license.
Eisenhower calmly and clearly explains his plans, logistics, dispositions of troops and how his generals, especially Bradley and Montgomery, carried them out to great effect.
For a top down look at how America fought and won WWII, Crusade in Europe is must reading.
An impressive effort published three years after the war’s end, the anecdotes and experiences come across as still quite fresh in Eisenhower’s own voice. His insights in the concluding chapter about the Russians indicate, never mind his hope that common cause and understanding can grow between the US and USSR, suggest that this hope never had a chance. The Russian generals approach to overcoming mine fields, or lack of consideration for Russian soldiers taken prisoner by the Germans, exposed a far different view on the role of the individual relative to the state.
I found "Crusade in Europe" interesting and educational not so much as a study of the European Theater of World War II, (many books have been written on that subject), for as a study of leadership and the art of cooperation between allies toward a great objective. The final chapter in this book is worth reading all by itself. In the final chapter, Gen. Eisenhower looks into the relationship between the Soviet Union and the U.S. in a post war world. His analysis of the relationship between communism and free market democracy is spot on.
This 1947 book and it’s author is not the most compelling style. But the subject matter, and the story is the most exciting in history. Due to the authors unique position in history, and the time in which this was written, made it a must-read for me. The author uses too many references to personnel (other generals and leaders in the campaign). But I liked the relative shortness and simplicity of the book.
The first thing I took away from this book was that General Eisenhower was a gentleman and a diplomat. In this book he took time to describe battlefield tactics and thoughts behind those tactics mixed in with lessons learned and general advice. We were fortunate to have him serve in the role he did at this time in history. I gave it 4 stars rather than 5 only because the writing could be somewhat dry.
A well-written and comprehensive history of World War II in northern Africa, the Mediterranean Sea, and Europe. Eisenhower touches on all phases of organizing for warfare and gives personal impressions of the men he worked with.
Superior history of WWII Europe by the man who led an unwieldy coalition with Britain to victory. Highly recommended.
Eisenhower naturally explains his thoughts on the myriad military campaigns that were conducted, going behind the scenes to show how and why he and his command staff created battle plans to defeat Italy and Germany.
Also, there are numerous, easy-to-read maps that help to visually show what Eisenhower is explaining re: troop movements, enemy flanks, strategic objectives, etc...
Eisenhower's personal anecdotes and comments on some of the personalities involved (de Gaulle, Stalin, Montgomery, Patton) are what make the book really interesting and worth reading.
All these years later, it's still interesting to me to read some of the important but not often emphasized decisions made by Eisenhower and his colleagues.
Each of these points has certainly are interesting and worthy of discussion, but are often not highlighted in other general histories of the war.Perhaps the most fascinating (to me) aspect of the book surround the portrayals of Churchill's arguments against some aspects of the campaigns, some of which the wartime British Prime Minister addresses in his own memoirs a few years later.
I've been reading quite a bit on the holocaust the last couple of years, but I hadn't really studied the actual war, so this was a great book to get a good overview of the US' involvment in the war.A lot of books I find will be great but then they finish poorly or abruptly, but that's not the case with this one.
I thought that Eisenhower finished this book very well in that he explained the importance of the soldier as an individual (not just a number), which you see throughout the book as he travels to visit the troops and those in hospitals.
I made a worthy attempt with this book, but I reached the point where I had to call the time of death on that process, so to say, and move on.
I discussed with my mother, and we entertained the possibility that it meant alot more to her since she was alive during World War II -- and she shared related stories.
I can certainly make associations with military leaders and involvement going on while I've been alive -- and the first-person accounts and other stories from others who are her contemporaries.
I picked up this book that was on my Dad's bookshelf back in the mid-1960s.
Like most teenage boys of the period, I was fascinated by the world war that my father had so recently fought in.
"Crusade in Europe" was interesting, engaging and written on a level that even my fifteen year old mind could appreciate.
I still recommend the title to people as a good one-volume compendium on World War II in Europe.
I finished that book as well, though it took me eleven years to do so.
Give General Eisenhower a chance though, I think you'll enjoy "Crusade in Europe."
