https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/292602.A_Scots_Quair
You hated the land and the coarse speak of the folk and learning was brave and fine one day; and the next you'd waken with the peewits crying across the hills, deep and deep, crying in the heart of you and the smell of the earth in your face, almost you'd cry for that, the beauty of it and the sweetness of the Scottish land and skies.You can see here the interesting narrative technique of switching to the second-person, which happens frequently throughout all the books – a ‘you’ that is sometimes Chris, sometimes a vague townsperson, always drawing the reader deep inside the emotions of the novel.
The big theme of the trilogy is, on a personal level, gaining experience and what it does to you, and, more generally, the inevitability of change.
There is a sense of desperate need for positive change in this book.
Chris is the real grown-up of the trilogy, able to face reality without placebos like religion and politics.
In another book it would be a big problem for me but it's surrounded by enough that's real.In Grey Granite Gibbon moves Chris and her son Ewan to a city and really goes for the political stuff.
The texture of the book, its root in the land, as it were, is sometimes a little hard to swallow, but for the most part it's a good anchor to keep the story feeling cohesive, given the dramatic changes that take place between Sunset Song and Cloud Howe, and Cloud Howe and Grey Granite.Sunset song is by far the best of the three novels.
Cloud Howe was equally easily my least favourite book - the secondary characters were pretty much universally unlikeable, and while I know that was the point, I missed having someone to "root" for as it were.
I've read the trilogy three times I think (rather appropriately), seen the stage play, listened to a musical setting of it in Glasgow Cathedral, seen the BBC version of it from the 1970s (now available on dvd at last hallelujah).
I guess that constitutes me being a fan of the book!
The first couple of times I tried to read the book, the first part of Sunset Song bogged me down a little, with the history of the area, etc.
but persevere if you find if hard going, it's ultimately a very rewarding trilogy, A Scots Quair is truly a Scots classic!
Beautiful but often abstruse story of the Chris Guthrie, born into a crofting family around the turn of the last century and living her life up to the the mid century, through a period which saw the end of the small farming way of life and the rise of political radicalism amongst the subaltern classes.Grassic (realname James Leslie Mitchell) tells the story through an almost impressionistic lens, where the landscape of the Mearns area of East Scotland evokes the moods which dominate ther lifes of the main characters in Chris's life.
Sunset Song introduces Chris Gutherie, a daughter of crofters, as she moves to the Mearns, meets the love of her life, starts out her married life on the croft, to see it all change with the beginning of the First World War. The story continues in the second book as Chris leaves the croft to move into a local village with her second husband and the young son of her first marriage.
However, the changes brought to rural Scotland continue to mark the lives of villagers.
In the third book, Grey Granite, Chris and her son have moved to the city, a dis-spirited, unforgiving hole.
Probably the most influential book I have ever read.
This trilogy has such a sweeping emotional and philosophical trajectory that is at once tragic and celebratory...it has since dominated my conscious mind and emotional self immediately after I read the natural and deeply honest text.
The narrative will be difficult for those not used to hearing the Scots dialect from the north east of Scotland but I would implore a new reader to persevere as the story held within these pages is both universal and very Scottish, a novel written with the whole world in view but from a Scottish perspective.
Grassic Gibbon's prose is lyrical. His eye for detail in description, whether in landscape or in characters' thoughts, is remarkable.
I read this in 6th year of high school and it has stayed with me ever since. It's one of the most beautifully written, moving books I have ever read.
This is a fabulous trilogy, and I think would resonate with readers of Willa Cather (plains = bleak Scottish fields). I adored this book as a teenager.
Sunset Song follows her from childhood moving to a farm in the Mearns through adolescence to marriage and the First World War, Cloud Howe her life as a minister's wife in the small town of Seggat, and Grey Granite her later years running a boarding house in the industrial east coast city of Duncairn.Life is never easy for Chris, whether labouring a subsistence living on the land, enduring childbirth and gossips, or facing the existential terror of the finity of her life and those around her.
In some ways I feel it does a dis-service to these books by reviewing them together for each part of the trilogy is brilliant.A Scots Quair is actually three books, Sunset Song, Cloud Howe and Grey Granite, that tell the story of Chris Guthrie, a young woman in the North East of Scotland, moving from the hard, rural life of her adolescence to adulthood and marriage.
Generally the first book, Sunset Song, has long been regarded as a classic of Scottish literature but for me Cloud Howe was the best of the three - and together they are wonderous!I chose A Scots Quair as one of ten books that represent my country Scotland.
A gift from my dear friend Bettie!!This trilogy is composed by the following books:4* Sunset Song, s
So, I like Scotland, I like reading -- should be great.
However, when you already hate a book on page 1 of nearly 700, that's not very encouraging.
It might be the greatest novel in the same sense that Moby Dick is a great novel -- OK, but it's totally boring.
Or maybe I'm so traumatized from slogging through Freedom that I'll never enjoy reading again.
Now I have to decide what shelf to move it to.
I created a new shelf called rejected.
This book is the sole occupant but there are other deserving candidates.
I did read it .
a few pages.
Lasting memory is of her kindness to conscentious objector, the image of him sitting on doorstep forlorn and wondering if his convictions right.
I loved living in this area, thought of Chrissy on my own wedding day when I got married on the church on the hill, with fields of wheat, sea beyond it and the boat suspended from the inside of the roof in the church.
Chrissy defied convention and can easily say Grassic Gibbon gave me strength and conviction through what was effectively my first feminist reading.
I've read this twice, neither time recently, but it's not a book (three books actually) you forget. A most beautiful love story set in the most remote and appealing landscape imaginable and peopled with larger-than-life characters. Who could be larger (or longer) than Long John o' the Mill? There's no answer to that.
Both epic and lyric, touching yet unsentimental.
This might seem minor in “Sunset’s Song”, but it becomes rather important in ”Grey Granite”, where a new section would deliberately start with a pronoun and you would be left wondering for several lines “who is he referring too?” While it made it difficult and sometimes confusing, I also see it as an effective way of taking the story away from Chris, Ewan, or whomever LGG is referring to at the moment, and giving it to the Mearns.That is probably the best and most surprising part of the whole volume.
It tells the story of Chris Guthrie, the daughter of a crofter who later marries a farm labourer.
It's broken into the seasons of the year, so we follow her from Winter to Spring to Summer and Autumn (I have to admit this may be wrong it's about 20 years since I last read it).Chris has a desperately hard life but when she marries she finds happiness with her husband and they have a baby.
There's no more evocative telling of the Scottish crofting life and it is a Scottish classic for a good reason.
I was expecting to really really love this. Alas. There are some interesting stylistic choices, for those who like that sort of thing - bits written in the second person! - but there was a bit too much lecturing, in the form of the thoughts and feelings of the characters.Also I was terribly disappointed at how mean-spirited and, yes, stupid, a lot of the people were. Sorry.
I'd read Sunset Song already, and wanted to read the rest, so this was a good way to do that. I loved all of them, but was left with an abiding sense of melancholy at the end.
Remember loving this trilogy when I read it at school. Happy to have found a copy so I can delve into it once again.
I had all along assumed that the book was written by an older man with much knowledge of the world, politics, and, like Chris's son Ewan, metallurgy, geology, physics.
Ewan and Chris are the characters who survive all three books.
It is truly masterful (though I do hate to use expressions like that).I did not agree with Warwick that the first book was the best.
Gibbons gives us a very long and wide ranging view of man on the planet through the characters of Ewan and Chris.
She took from the hard reality of life a nuturing strength, a sense of unipn with the continuing earth, and the certainty that, above all, she was her own woman."As history ran its cataclysmic course -- the First World War, the Great Depression, the violent social upheavals of the 30s -- Chris knew personal grief and tragedy -- two marriages that ended in widowhood, romance that proved false, an only son lost on the tide of radical politics."Yet, like the land itself, worn by time and terrible events, she remained unchanged, unshaken, vigorously true to herself."~~back coverThis was one of the most depressing books I've ever read, and I'm not sure how I managed to struggle through 634 pages of unrelenting anger, grief, sorrow, despair, and uncompromising and unrelieved grayness.
LGG's ability to induce tears and laughter in the same five minutes, on the very same page, is one of my favorite things about him.
And he also had a talent for putting his finger on the things people were afraid to say or acknowledge: amazing the bits about fascism.But most important of all is that LGG understood Chris--a woman--better, I think, than some women understand other women.
This is why the books are so perfect, and why I believe everyone should read them.
You'll get it in a few pages and then you'll catch yourself thinking of people as gowk-eyed gomerils.2014: Absolute favorite book(s) of all time.
I found this book slow to begin with and persevered as a book group read.
I read it more slowly than I often read and so the images stayed with me.
The Highland dialect is fascinating and after a while undaunting and became part of the language I understood, much of which is exceptionally beautiful.
I had such strong images of the scenery and lives of the characters.
The end of the closing line is one of the finest I have ever read - "...you can do without the day if you've a lamp quiet-lighted and kind in your heart".
A Scottish classic, actually a trilogy, which gives a real feel for the difficult life in Scotland in that time. The books have probably traumatised many Scottish kids that have been forced to read it at school, but reading it as an adult, and having lived for five years in Scotland, I could appreciate the story.It starts out following the life of a young lass, growing up in rural Scotland and ends, centred more on her son in the city.Very interesting, although you'll need an ear for the Scottish dialect.
Oh, how to review this book? The subject matter was fine; a Scottish woman's story through the hardships of the First World War and the economic and social troubles of the twenties and thirties. But written in lowland Scots. Nevertheless, by the end, I was hooked and had worked out most of the dialect (though this edition loses a star for not including a glossary.) It is a stirring tale and says a lot about the strength of human spirit battling adversity. And I gather it's Nicola Sturgeon's favourite book!
This three books that tell the story of Chris Guthrie, a young woman in the North East of Scotland, moving from the hard, rural life of her adolescence to adulthood and marriage.It's a wonderful depiction of rural Scotland at the beginning of the 20th century and describes the development of the working class of Scotland up to, through and beyond the horrors of the 14-18 War.There is a strong socialist feel to much of the books but for all the politics and social commentary, Chris is simply a wonderful heroine.
This is not an easy book to read because of all the unfamiliar Scottish words. There's a limited glossary of terms in the back of the book and its usually fairly easy to figure out (or guess) the meaning of the words that aren't there. Its a great story of life in the Highlands in the early 20th Century. Loving all things Scottish, I bought this book several years ago, but just finally got the courage to read it.
