https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23692271-sapiens
People understood that seeds developed into plants at the time when they desperately needed to increase their food supply in order to survive, and linked one with the other.It is interesting that Harari does not only romanticize hunting and gathering, but actually looks at the agricultural revolution and its impact from a perspective of a hunter and gatherer - that is, focusing on the thing that mattered most to our foraging ancient ancestors: food.
This book had changed my life, the way I think, the way I precept the world.I think it should be an obligatory book for everyone on this planet.
But this book was something else.
Beautifully written and easy to read, this book just made me want to know more and more about how the author thinks the world evolved to what it is today.
Revolution by revolution, religion by religion, conception by conception, things were simplified and yet still maintained valid points - and it was never boring.The best thing about it was that it actually made me think.The author doesn't treat you as ignorant at all - he doesn't assume you know nothing but assume you know a lot and understand a lot, and doesn't lecture about anything, and that attitude makes the book a pleasure to read.Just read it.
Is there anything more dangerous than dissatisfied and irresponsible gods who don't know what they want? What a fantastic book. I can see why everyone from Bill Gates to Barack Obama was raving about it. It's an extremely compelling, accessible history - almost like a novelization - of humankind.I've read a few of these "brief history of the world" books, most notably  A History of the World in 100 Objects and Bryson's  A Short History of Nearly Everything. I liked both, but neither is as engag
It's an extremely compelling, accessible history - almost like a novelization - of humankind.I've read a few of these "brief history of the world" books, most notably  A History of the World in 100 Objects and Bryson's  A Short History of Nearly Everything.
Harari takes us through the history of human development and migration, through the Cognitive Revolution (view spoiler)[a sudden increase in cognitive ability around 70,000 years ago, not the 1950s intellectual movement (hide spoiler)] and Agricultural Revolution.
The only agenda Hariri seems driven by is a desire to present the most accurate view of humanity's history.This book filled me with a sense of wonder.
This book is a superficial gloss on human history.
At the same time I fear it will turn out to be another tedious read for a far less learned general reader than myself.
Here's an example of author Harari's reductiveness, which is inevitable in a book skirting so many vast subjects.
Here's yet another bizarro statement:Had the Aztecs and Incas shown a bit more interest in the world surrounding them – and had they known what the Spaniards had done to their neighbors – they might have resisted the Spanish conquest more keenly and successfully.
But starting in the second section on the Agricultural Revolution, Harari shift gears and drops any pretense of an scholarly work.
Even when it seemed as if Harari was selling me something I didn’t know (which did not occur often), I simply did not trust him.
The thing that sticks out most in my memory is how the host went off on a diatribe about the greatness of nature and Native Americans and about how he was fine being a non-vegetarian because the cows understood human need for meat and were happy to offer themselves as a precious spiritual gift to humanity.
It is again unpopular opinion time! It seems it becomes a rule for me not to enjoy a book that everyone seems to love. Well, someone has to. Here we go with the review. Prepare your tomatoes and raw eggs (someone actually threw a raw egg at me once for fun but it bounced from my bum )Sapiens’ beginning was fantastic. I loved the author’s voice and the information about the early days of the human kind was fascinating. I did not read any non-fiction about the origin of humans so I was excited to
I did not read any non-fiction about the origin of humans so I was excited to understand our origins better.
For example, the way he supported for the whole book that humans were better of as hunter-gathers without bringing no real arguments to support his opinion.Finally, I had a problem with the scope of Sapiens.
The information was too vague, too general, it all resembled a set of interesting trivia.When reading other negative reviews of Sapiens I stumbled repeatedly on a recommendation: Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies.
The book was already on my TBR so it is going to be the next read on the subject.
There were some good explanations of why we are as we are and how things developed, Such as human conversation evolving (see below) so we could gossip about our fellow tribes people.
But then it dragged at the end as the author got preachy and scifi technological about our bionic futures.
And anyway I can't see robots gossiping and if they don't do that what have they got to talk about (view spoiler)[the weather I suppose, if they were British robots.
Harari's chapters here did make for decent reading about the concept the author calls the cognitive revolution which separates us from other animals.
In any case, it didn't do it for me.Unfortunately, my in-laws who bought me Sapiens also bought me the sequel so I suppose I will be guilted into reading it at some point.
In conclusion, I prefer reading REAL history books with caffeine rather than this decaffeinated, saccharin substitute for them.I am not alone in my disdain for this over-publicized waste of trees.
These sort of general explanations might be good for someone new to the study of history, but the reader should beware that they don't get taken in too much by the author's often simplistic and one-sided explanation of these concepts.
The unifying theme of it being "a history of humankind", focusing on Homo Sapiens as a species, often disappears and it becomes a general plod through whatever aspects of history the author is interested in.
More on Homo Sapiens' relations with other species and with nature might have been good.
Most human-rights activists sincerely believe in the existence of human rights."I have never considered the extent of the imagined reality we all live in before.
The author moves on through history and gives plenty of new perspectives on events.
The new ethic promises paradise on the condition that the rich remain greedy and spend their time making more money, and that the masses give free rein to their cravings and passions - and buy more and more.
During the time it took me to read the "short" history of humankind, written in funny sarcastic prose, painting with broad brush strokes what made us develop into this bizarre population of 7 billion people, I have rated this brick of a book five stars, one star, no star, all the fault in our stars.
And there's no surprise there, as it is written by a homo sapiens, a species notoriously wellknown for making false assumptions and creating individual and collective fictions to survive, adapt and conquer the world.
This ability, an evolutionary enigma because it does not give obviously immediate advantage, underlies human ability to organize beyond very small units, to cooperate in matters of survival, and to prevail against competing species which are stronger, quicker, better adapted to the environment, able to speak in a more varied manner, and even more clever.These narratives, according to the narrative told by Harari, begin in gossip, talk among ourselves about ourselves, which is a behaviour that is now as far as anyone knows unique to Homo Sapiens, and may even have even been unique among others of the genus Homo.
Alenen propagandası yapılan Kapitalist söylem de cabası.Büyük bir heves ve şevkle başladım lakin beni hayal kırıklığına uğrattı.Kapitalistlerin eleştirilere verdiği yanıtı aktaran şu ifadeye bakalım:"İkinci cevap da biraz daha sabırlı olmamız gerektiğidir.
Konunun gidişinden bu bölümün kapitalistlerle yapılan bir karşılıklı konuşma gibi yazıldığı da düşünüldüğünde, "olumlu işaretler mevcut" diyerek yazar alenen bir taraf tutuyor.
"Kapitalizm olmasaydı aya bile gidemezdik" demek bir bilim insanına yakışmaz.
Bu soruya birbirini tamamlayan iki cevap verilebilir: modern bilim ve kapitalizm.
Bunların ispatı veya bunların yanlışlanması nasıl olabilecekti?Satır aralarında kapitalizm vurgusu yapılan bu kitapta bir ideolojinin propagandasını yapmak bilim insanına yakışmayacak bir yaklaşımdır.
One theory states that infidelities and divorce of modern times stem from forcing people to live in unnatural, permanent relationships.
Many other islands were also rich in large mammals until humans arrived.Harari discusses the agricultural revolution in some detail.
In fact, Harari claims that the agricultural revolution is "history's biggest fraud." The culprits of this fraud were wheat, rice, and potatoes, all plants that domesticated humans!
But Harari disputes this; he states that men were not created at all, but instead they evolved differently.From a sociological point of view, Harari asks why are most cities patriarchical.
And since I am a complete beginner, perfect for me.I finished this some six months ago: interesting to see what has remained: gossip, something I hate and rarely indulge in, is an important factor in creating social cohesion, (so perhaps I should revise my attitude to it).
True, when you think about it: you and I can only gossip about someone we both know.
And it might be important to know who is forming an alliance behind our back.
However, as social glue, gossip can only work in smaller groups: once you get past around forty or fifty it becomes unwieldy.
Every once in a decade, a book comes along that has the capacity to radically change the way we think about matters of substance.
It asks fundamental questions about our evolution as humans and offers counter intuitive, tangential viewpoints.
It must be read, whether or not you are particularly interested in mankind, its history, its evolution or its future.
A NOTE ON RATING: I rate most good books at 3 stars, meaning it was a good read and was worth the time it took to read.
This is the only book I have given five stars.
Please just read it.
Homo sapiens the only surviving human species.12,000: The Agricultural Revolution.
Homo Sapiens is replaced by superhumans?The human animals were in the middle of the food chain & basically not significant players in evolutionary terms for over 2 million years.
There are even indications that we interbred both with Neanderthals & at least one other.It wasn't until our cognitive evolution of 70,000 years ago that Homo Sapiens really began to emerge from the other animals & they did so with a vengeance.
This seems like a laudable project, but what about resurrecting the Neanderthal or any other species of sapien?- What if a new drug that cures Alzheimer's makes regular people smarter?
Fantastic.
Absolutely sublime.
I don't think I've ever read a book with such grand scope, or a book that promises to cover so much and actually delivers.
Dealing with the biggest questions about our species - Why are we here?
Why are we the way we are?
What does our happiness mean?
- Harari writes precisely and with shrewd use of metaphor, providing answers that seem intuitively right but leading us to think further than we have before.
The links between giant forces that control our world such as capitalism, science, and empire are made brilliantly and made me see the world through fresh eyes.Dizzyingly good.
Everyone should read this.
"The ability to speak about fictions is the most unique feature of Sapiens language...fiction has enabled us not merely to imagine things, but to do so collectively."-- Yuval Noah Harari , SapiensThe writing style reminds me a bit of Bob Wright's The Moral Animal: Why We Are the Way We Are: The New Science of Evolutionary Psychology, Mann's 1491: New Revelations of the Americas Before Columbus, or Sagan's Cosmos.
For veracity, perhaps a 3?But it is VERY engaging and like Wright, Mann, and Gladwell before him, Harari has capture the imagination of the reading public by taking academic topics and smoothing out the rough edges and making it easier for a general audience to swallow and digest.
Why, therefore, had Bruegel painted such a small and marginal Icarus and such a central farmer?“A Brief History of Humankind” by Yuval Noah Harari isn’t a conventional, standard history book.
How were created the ideas which had changed human history?
The questions Harari asks enlighten the history through an important, fascinating and clarifying perspective – much more than the routine pile of tyrants, commanders, battles, dates and eras that any regular history book is composed of.Which events influenced most on humanity's fate?
He take on complex things like religion & capitalism and explains them in very simple terms that you likely hadn't thought about before.
The average Christian believes in the monotheist God, but also in the dualist Devil, in polytheist saints, and in animist ghosts."There was a fascinating bit on the scientific mindset, and how it was key to Europe taking power.
Fascinating questions to ask if we are happier today than 1,000 or 2,000 years ago.
Có thể gọi là kiểu mẫu của thể loại non - fic khoa học viết cho đại chúng, lập luận chặt chẽ, dẫn chứng phong phú, giả thiết thuyết phục, vừa trí tuệ vừa hài hước, đọc mà hầu như không thể rời mắt được vì quá hấp dẫn.
Harari đưa ra những lời giải thích khá dễ hiểu cho những vấn đề phức tạp, và cho người đọc một cái nhìn toàn cảnh, mới mẻ và sâu sắc đối với lịch sử loài người, cũng như dự đoán về sự phát triển tương lai của nhân loại.
Where Jared Diamond's Guns, Germs, and Steel was a transformative investigation of the origins of civilization, Yuval Harari's Sapiens is a divisive, ideologically driven [Cognitive Revolution = Cultural Determinism] which twists data to fit a pre-existing theory.
Back of it all, the entire book, is the final chapter where Harari frets about genetic engineering, cyborgs, and AI [artificial intelligence].
Recommended for cultural determinists and those okay with a new book about fear [genetic engineering, cyborgs, and AI] -- though the latter does not appear until the final chapter.
The whole point of the book is the final chapter and it is almost certainly vastly overstated.
Detailed history with a splash of the authors opinion.
Like many, I am fascinated with the history of the human race, and enjoy learning as much as I can possibly absorb.
The book took twists and turns that were unexpected, such as discussing the treatment of animals by the human race, and dives into what I felt were lectures defending his own opinion.
I specifically liked learning about the Sapiens cousins, such as the Neanderthals.
This is definitely a book that will make you question all of what you have grown up learning, and keep you wanting more!
Once in a while I like to challenge myself and read something that wouldn't be my usual genre. Sapiens fits that bill perfectly. I haven't got that much interest in anthropology but I do want to educate myself more in that field and I feel that I learnt a lot from reading it.Intelligent, very well-written, engaging and definitely thought-provoking. Not everyone will agree with Harari's take on things but I enjoyed it and will read more of his books in the future.
Nothing new!
Everything I read in this book to some extent I learned at the anthropology courses taught by academician Balaceanu-Stolnici.Harari is a good writer, but one with a very decided agenda.
I had to point out how surprisingly little he seems to have read on quite a number of essential topics.
It would be fair to say that whenever his facts are broadly correct they are not new, and whenever he tries to strike out on his own he often gets things wrong, sometimes seriously.
By these criteria it is a most successful book.
And that’s odd too, since it is years since I’ve read a book on this theme, despite it being a bit of a favourite at one time.
So, in that sense, I really didn’t come away from reading these two books in quick succession feeling it was a waste of time.
But that said, I would also recommend it because I think it presents the material in more depth and in ways that are likely to provide you (and maybe even provoke you) with more insight into the complexities of the material too.
To do as Harari does, I speak only "generally" when I say this is a nice little synopsis of Anthropology One OH One, Physical and Cultural, with a lean towards the Cultural.
Nonetheless, it is good to note that subsequent generations will have this handy little cahier to refer to, now and again, when they lose their way, anthropologically-speaking.NB: Try as she might, my GR friend Lisa has not managed to eradicate the Irony And Sarcasm Affliction with which I have struggled all my life, ab ovum.'Tis arrogance in the first place to write a brief history of humankind, and so I can only surmise that it is done most ironically.
Objectively this might book might deserve a higher rating. But subjectively it was a disappointment for me. Were my expectations too high? No, that’s not it. It’s the overall style and presentation that didn’t work for me. I flip through my Kindle notes and see things like “weak phrasing”, “not convincing”, “author has a grudge?”, “too easy”, “inaccurate remark” etc. Such things deprived me of reading. You could say the chemistry between me and the text just wasn’t right. Pity! This work is lice
Objectively this might book might deserve a higher rating. But subjectively it was a disappointment for me. Were my expectations too high? No, that’s not it. It’s the overall style and presentation that didn’t work for me. I flip through my Kindle notes and see things like “weak phrasing”, “not convincing”, “author has a grudge?”, “too easy”, “inaccurate remark” etc. Such things deprived me of reading. You could say the chemistry between me and the text just wasn’t right. Pity!
  This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License.
