https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1089956.Star_of_Light
"Yes, he could hear what they were saying now- wonderful glowing words, brighter than any ever written in the Qur'an: "Jesus said, 'I am the light for the world! Follow me, and you won't be walking in the dark. You will have the light that gives life.'" I read some of this author's books as a child but can't recall this one. Hamid is raised by a poor family in Morocco, which is culturally Muslim. His step-father is abusive and cruel. When another child is born blind, Hamid fears his step-father
She learns some valuable lessons when she visits her missionary nurse aunt in Morocco with her family, and there meets a small blind girl only recently arrived...All of the children's books by the author have strong Christian messages with clear Gospel application.
It is true, of course, that the Gospel message is timeless, but today, buying and selling children, especially in missionary circles, would be a serious crime, whatever the circumstances!One small disappointment for me was the inclusion of a dream of an appearance of Jesus who explains the Gospel to a child.
I thought this was an amazing book with a powerful message of the love of Jesus Christ that is for young and old. I recommend anybody who does not know about Jesus, and even those who do, read this book. This could also open your heart to missions and going to the unreached areas of our world.
It's okay doesn't have a lot of action or adventure, but great Christian based book
There were constant surprises, like the part in the garden where Jenny loses Kinza.
Each main character (Hamid and Jenny) had their own ending.
Jenny was very spoiled, but in the end she realized that she actually cared about other people than herself.
So, Kinza's mother was going to send her to live with a Christian (Jenny's aunt Rosemary) so that she could have a better life.
Christianity teaches that every life has value and purpose in the eyes of God. Islam looks down on women, children, and people with disabilities.I think the author wanted to teach us about how God can change our lives and make us more loving towards others.
Ok, I confess - my five star rating is for the original book published in 1953.When I was ten years old, a missionary to Algeria gave me Star of Light.
I wanted my children and friends to read the book but wondered why it did not thrill them like it had me.
WELL, somebody decided that modern children could not understand a book published fifty years ago and Moody Press revised it - took away much of the Moorish culture, the harshness, and the British langauge.
I mean, what ten year old could understand that a "torch" is flashlight in the context in which it is used??
Star Of Light was a nice story and I enjoyed it, so my rating is 3.5 stars. The main characters are Hamid and Jenny. One thing I do not really like about the book is that the first half is about Hamid and then they kind of forget about him and then the main character is Jenny. I would have liked to keep reading Hamid's story. The main lesson in the book is about Jesus and learning about Him. It had a pretty satisfying ending. I recommend it to ages 8 and up.
One of my favourite books at age 11. Inspiring, moving and pretty great for making you want to live out a real adventure.
I really liked this book. I'd seen StJohn's books on many reading lists but had never seen one at a library or thrift store. 😉 So, finally decided to buy one--I didn't realize it was a missionary story!I thought the story was exciting, the lessons/teaching solid and despite other reviews, the "whiteness" wasn't the Savior--Jesus was! Can't wait for my kids to read this one!
This book was so humbling! The courage & perseverance of the boy plus how cushy my life is, it was a good book for perspective. The kids (4, 7, 10, 11) enjoyed it but wished it had just a little more action 😉
Although I don't normally read these type of stories, it was a good read. I wasn't into it at the start, I was only reading it because of my family, but as the story progressed I came to enjoy it.
My first book
I didn't care for this book as much as I have some of Ms. John's other novels, but I still enjoyed it.
We really enjoyed this story and it was especially great for advent as it explains Jesus being the light in 3 different children's lives- 1 blind, 1 poor and 1 rich.
This was a good book but it was somewhat predictable.
Star of Light was written by Patricia St. John who was a missionary nurse and wrote many books for children, usually with a Christian message.
She is bound to live a life of intense suffering, that is unless her brother Hamid and their mother can think of a plan.
Finally, Hamid flees their village with Kinza tied to his back in search of an English nurse who can help them, but is she safe?Star of Light is a fictional story set in rural north Africa.
It also alerts the reader to some of the issues encountered by children in rural Africa that they may not have thought of before.
All other things aside, which I'm sure are more than discussed here and elsewhere, I found the book hard to put down.Until the last third.See, it's written in omniscient third person.
Although it does not talk about Islam or Muslims in general, it does discuss one Islamic family and how horrible they are, along with one mainly Muslim town and how bad off it is.
And while families and towns such as that do exist in many, if not all, cultures, Muslims may find it insulting and be afraid that it misrepresents them personally, or all Muslims and/or Islamic communities in general.
I love it when that happens and this was one such book it happened in.
It's a wonderful book for introducing your children to these issues.
It's also a wonderful book for teaching children that "in order to triumph over adversity, they usually must first deal with their own inner foes, such as pride, anger, selfishness, and bitterness.
The difficulty, even hopelessness of life's inner and outer struggles, reveals the need for the magnificent and boundless resources of a loving God".
This was on my sons reading list.
I heard that it was a classic but one I never had to read in school.
The man had no children and his wife was very jealous of the new wife.
The mother kept her one child hidden as long as she could.
She knew the new husband would never except this child.
The woman grew to love this child and kept her for her own.
The family took in the child and sent her to a special school.
The son learned to read and learned all about Jesus.
This is a great story that we read for school a few years ago.
It takes place in Morocco probably around the 1940's or 50's and is about a young boy, Hamid, who takes his blind sister to an English nurse/missionary for safe keeping to prevent his step-father from selling her to a beggar.
Alongside Hamid's story, the nurse has a cousin who visits with her husband and young self-absorbed daughter, Jenny.
As such, it lacks a bit in it's style and the presentation of the gospel is a bit awkward or forced in places.
Even so, it is a great story and a fun read.
I just finished reading this story to my children for the second time.
As always when reading a book by this author, I was struck with her ability to weave the Christian message, the salvation story, into a book.
She presented Jesus in a different way in each book; in this one, He is the Light of the World—the theme verse, woven throughout the story, is “I am the Light of the world: he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life.” I found it interesting, knowing that ahead of time, to notice how often, from the first chapter to the last, light and darkness are mentioned and contrasted.The story focuses on Hamid, a 10-year-old boy in a poor family in the mountains of Morrocco, northern Africa.
Read my full review here.
I had this story told to me in a VBS seminar when I was very small in Africa.
I carried it in my heart for years.
One day, I stumbled across this book and as I was reading it realized it was the very same story- and have read it and re-read it for years and years since.
I guess it meant so much because it gave me the other side of the missionary story.
I never really understood why we needed to be in Africa, it helped me see the good missionaries can do.
It soothed my skepticism and kept a check on my heart that was too calloused to the whole thing at times.
This book was a sweet Christian story.
My kids loved it.
My beef was the Savior complex obvious throughout the story.
The only option to the white nurse was to take the blind girl far away from her family and the people who loved her so she could "have a better life"...so she could be raised with ease, money and Christianity.
Because it was a read-aloud, I was able to discuss with my children and explore options and the complex needs in a situation like this.
So, while my kids loved it and the coming of age was nice, i will probably avoid this author from now on.
This is about a family who are very poor. The father is cruel. The mother is expecting her second child to his dissapointment and even more maddening it is blind. He sells the child to a beggar. The other child of the family takes the blind, baby girl and flees. He ends up finding a Christian lady who adopts the baby. She also feeds the boy and teaches the bible. The young boy gave the baby to the lady not telling her who it beloned to. The child gets stollen...and read the story to find out the end.
Hamid's baby sister is blind. Once his stepfather finds this out, baby Kinza is going to be sold to a beggar, because people take pity and give generous money to blind children.So, a plan is hatched. Hamid will sneak away with his sister. He will journey until he finds the home of the English nurse in another town, many days away. Hamid's mother told him that this nurse can heal Kinza's sight.This was a wonderful story that I enjoyed very much. Many lessons can be learned by reading it.Once again, a fantastic story by Patricia St. John!
This rating is based on my sons' enjoyment of the book. I read this book as a read-aloud to correspond with our history lesson. As for my review, I agree with the 3 star rating. It was good story but not overly exciting. It seemed to drag in parts and I felt some of the characters could have been developed a little more detailed along with the setting and culture they lived in. The story did however expose how young children with disabilities are treated in 3rd world countries and how family members risk their lives to protect them.
Barf.Speaking as a Christian literature teacher, I would like to hold this book up as a prime of example of why so many "Christian" books suck. Bad missiology, bad anthropology, and bad writing, all in one slim volume: this is the kind of book that only survives in the Christian intellectual ghetto. May God forgive us.Go read Deborah Ellis instead. She knows how to write the book this book is attempting to be.
This is a very simple tale and the point of the author is obvious from the beginning, but I enjoyed reading about children coming to know Jesus. One came from a culture that did not believe in Jesus and another came from a culture that professed to know Him but never really tried to draw close to Him. There is definitely some food for thought in this book and I think it is a worth read in youth literature.
When Hamid finds out that Kinza, his blind sister, will be sold to a beggar, he escapes with her. He heads to a white woman, Rosemary, a follower of Jesus. Once there, Hamid gets accepted by the street boys and learns about God from Rosemary.I enjoyed this story very much.Vibrant Bea, 12 years old.
Rosemary, a nurse in northern Africa, answering Jenny's question of why she does what she does:"…but the reason I do it is not just to make them better. I give it because I want them to see that Jesus lives in me and He cares about their pain and wants to help them. You have got to show the love of Jesus by doing good things. "
This book was OK, but it was to easy for my tastes. The story plot was good, and I like how Patricia brought in them turning to god. But the way it was written was like for small children, and (I don't want to be mean) I just kept finding myself rolling my eyes. Cause lots of things were very obvious.
