https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1991039.Flaggermusmannen
Perhaps it was having the opportunity to learn Hole's backstory and read the books in their intended order, or maybe simply the fact that I don't know any differently, but I was in the mood for a slow burning police procedural and that's exactly what I got.The overall feel of the story reminded me a bit of Ragnar Jonasson's Dark Iceland series, except the setting was drastically warmer.
I can see how trying to come back to this book might be a chore after beginning with the others, but it was refreshing and exhilarating to read these in their natural order and learn Harry's backstory in its initial form.
”A sudden, uncontrollable fury rose in him, and he cast around for something to smash. He snatched the whiskey bottle from the table and was about to launch it at the wall, but changed his mind at the last moment. Lifelong training in self-control, he thought, opening the bottle and putting it to his mouth.” As you read this novel you are going to realize just how much sarcasm is loaded into that statement. Harry Hole, pronounced Hoo-leh, is dispatched to Sydney Australia to investigate the murd
In this case instead of ordering an intensive Rosetta Stone course on learning Norwegian I decided to suspend my controlling need for order and read book three first.
In this book Hole spends the entire time in Australia, so introducing this regionally misplaced character to a reading public desperate for a new mystery from the frozen North doesn’t really work.
I didn’t mind spending time in Australia even though if I’d been able to step into the book I certainly wouldn’t have spent any time with Harry.
It made me appreciate the man, still flawed, but maybe not as much so, that Harry becomes a few books later.
This decision automatically activates a domino effect and things coming to fall apart.“The human soul was a deep, dark forest and all decisions are made alone”–The BatHe is determined that he can do nothing to transfigure the unfortunate events that keep haunting him and therefore he resort to beverage not to comfort himself as he might believe but mostly to punish himself for the past he cannot change, for the lies he had to tell, for the love he had lost.The first installment in the Harry Hole series, “The Bat”, provides the readers with background information of Harry’s life.
As a huge fan of Jo Nesbo and the Harry Hole series, I waited eagerly, like many other fans, for The Bat, the first book in the Harry Hole series, to finally be translated into English.
I wouldn’t have continued with the series if this had been the case and would have missed out on all of the rest of the wonderful Harry Hole books.In The Bat, Harry finds himself in Australia when a young Norwegian girl is murdered and he assists the Australian police with the case.
I’m still a huge fan of Jo Nesbo and the Harry Hole series, from The Redbreast through to Phantom, each one of them has kept me very entertained, I’m just not a fan of this book.
In my other binge-reading project of the winter, I thought that there was no better time to explore the Harry Hole series by Norwegian Jo Nesbø.
As the series begins, Harry Hole (that's two syllables, Holy) finds himself in Sydney, Australia where he's been sent to represent the Royal Norwegian Police Directorate to investigate the murder of a Norwegian national.
Working alongside some of Sydney's finest, Hole discovers that there may be a serial rapist and murderer on the loose, whose penchant for blondes leaves a trail that grows every few days.
Harry 'Hoo-ley' is an experienced detective with a story of his own to tell, bought out to Sydney, Australia to assist Australian Police in a murder of a Norwegian woman.
An interesting one here as this is a Norwegian writer delving strongly into Aboriginal culture, and even re-telling some dream time stories.
I did not feel a connection with Harry, and although the narrator did quite an outstanding job of flicking between male/female/drag queen and Aus/Aboriginal/Norwegian accents, it did come across a little 'okka'.
The Australian imagery was great, I think Jo Nesbo creates a lovely scene.
Many of my “Goodreads friends” warned me that “The Bat” was not the best book in the series.
Further, they warned that I might not want to read other books in the “Harry Hole” series, if I started with this book.
So, I committed to myself to read the next two (2) books in the series, even if I thought “The Bat” was a terrible read.Well, reading this book was a chore.
I did not like Harry Hole, the protagonist, or any of the other characters in the first book of the series.
The wait is finally over, though, and The Bat is now at last available in a U.S. edition.It seems a bit odd that the first book in a series featuring a Norwegian police inspector would be set in Australia.
From practically the moment he arrives in Australia, Harry develops his own ideas about the case and is anything but shy about pursuing them.The principal merit of this book is that the reader gets to meet a younger Harry Hole and to learn a bit more about his background.
The Bat, by Norwegian author Jo Nesbo is the first of the Inspector Harry Hole (pronounced Hoo-leh) novels.
Set in Australia of all places, Nesbo introduces our hero as a foreign policeman sent on a diplomatic mission to assist with the investigation of the murder of a minor Norwegian celebrity in Sydney.
Nesbo does an above average job of introducing an array of characters and develops some intriguing dynamics and complexities for Hole.
There are some inconsistencies and some loose ends but I can understand how this character and this series have become so popular.
I will read more from Nesbo.
Ο Χάρι Χόλε βρίσκεται στην Αυστραλία για να βρει το δολοφόνο μιας νεαρής Νορβηγίδας που δολοφονήθηκε στο Σίδνεϋ… και πέρασε καταπληκτικά. Έφαγε, ήπιε, χόρεψε, σεξ έκανε, σεξ επί πληρωμή επίσης, για τους αβορίγινες έμαθε, θρύλους και μύθους τοπικούς του διηγήθηκαν, τη χλωρίδα και τη πανίδα γνώρισε και επειδή το βιβλίο έφτανε στο τέλος του είπε να ασχοληθεί και με την υπόθεση.Άντε και του χρόνου διακοπές στα νησιά του Πάσχα. Μέτριο βιβλίο και ψιλοβαρετό για όλους τους παραπάνω λόγους. Το δεύτερο μισό ήταν κάπως καλύτερο.2.5 αστεράκια.
Yet Jo Nesbo, even in this first book in the series, shows that he can take a classic tale and make it his own, give it that personal touch that will soon make him a bestseller author.
We are given a lot of background information of what makes Harry Hole tick, going all the way back to beautiful memories of a fjord valley in Romsdalen, a youthful romance on a roadtrip through Italy, what turned him into an alcoholic and how the booze made him a pariah at a very young age.The book also reads a lot like a movie script for a big budget production, which is not a bad thing in itself (it just feels a tad contrived).
Reto #5 PopSugar 2018: Crimen negro nórdico Un comienzo bastante digno para una serie que, por lo que he leído, mejora notablemente en sus próximas entregas. Por lo mismo, lo sentí como un libro más bien introductorio, que ocupa varias páginas en presentarnos a su personaje principal, Harry Hole, un policía noruego, que lucha permanentemente para mantener controlado su problema de alcoholismo (no siempre con mucho éxito, la verdad).Respecto de la historia, hasta la mitad del libro se siente bas
Por lo mismo, lo sentí como un libro más bien introductorio, que ocupa varias páginas en presentarnos a su personaje principal, Harry Hole, un policía noruego, que lucha permanentemente para mantener controlado su problema de alcoholismo (no siempre con mucho éxito, la verdad).Respecto de la historia, hasta la mitad del libro se siente bastante simple; una investigación que avanza sin muchos sobresaltos por diferentes localidades de Australia, hasta donde llega Harry para colaborar con la policía australiana en la resolución de un caso de violación y asesinato de una ciudadana noruega residente en Sidney, que en el pasado había logrado cierta fama animando programas infantiles.
Llegando a las últimas páginas, algunas cosas fueron bastante obvias, pero otras las sentí un poco deux ex machina, que la verdad no me gusta mucho como recurso literario.De todas maneras, lo recomiendo sobre todo para continuar la serie y entender mejor los demonios de Harry Hole.
In this book, Harry Hole has just arrived in Sydney, Australia, after being assigned by the Oslo Crime Department to liaise with the local police department in investigating the recent death of a beautiful Norwegian citizen.
Inger Holter was young, beautiful, somewhat famous, and leading a fairly complicated personal life.
I found The Bat to have some the weaknesses typical in first books in an established series.
Hole is a complicated and appealing protagonist, and newcomers as well as current fans of the series will enjoy reading his back story.
I'm looking forward to reading more books in the series.
My first novel by author Jo Nesbo, left me nearly as schizophrenic as a Jim Carey character.
From the beginning, I found the writing difficult to digest.
Set in Australia, authored by a Norwegian, and translated into the Queen's English, my American brain sloshed through the idioms saturating the pages.
Two points of clarity for me, Nesbo does a wonderful job of character development, especially with the main character, Inspector Harry Hole (pronounced like holy).
A recovering alcoholic, Harry's fall from the wagon is described in gritty detail.
To sum up my thoughts, I liked the story, but it left me feeling, well, unbalanced.
“I think our common sins in many ways bound us closer together.”“The Bat” is the fourth novel of Jo Nesbø’s that I have read, but the first one in his Harry Hole series.
Norwegian police inspector Harry Hole is dispatched to Australia to work on the case of a murdered Norwegian citizen, and we are off to the races.Many of the reviews I saw for this text say how genre busting this novel is.
These are not criticisms on my part by the way, they make for fun reading, but “The Bat” is a basic detective crime noir novel, nothing more.Stylistically the text is very abrupt.
I have noticed this feature in every book of his I have read.
When I first started the series I was most seriously disturbed that they chose to start with The Redbreast, the third book (IT'S JUST NOT RIGHT), but I read an article about the author where he said he thought the first 2 books were not well-done and he was happy the English-language pubs were starting where they did.
I don't know shit about math, but I feel confident saying it's a mathematical improbability to face this many killers without being the main character in a mystery/thriller/crime book series.
And at some point in almost every book the main character gets all maudlin and feels like he just gets the people around him killed -- and I want to say "YES!
I really want to watch the movie The Snowman, based on a Harry Hole book by Jo Nesbo.
The Snowman is book #7 of #11 in the Harry Hole series...so I have a bit of reading to do before I can watch the film.
Jo Nesbo is Norwegian, and his Harry Hole series was not translated into English in order.
The second book is set in Thailand, as Harry Hole is sent there to assist in a murder investigation.
The basics: Norwegian detective Harry Hole is sent to Sydney, Australia to help investigate the murder of a Norwegian woman, Inger Holter.
I had the pleasure of his background and personhood on an away game in New South Wales, where his sister was murdered in Sydney.
Away games for detective characters is a common practice, but rare for a first time at bat.
But it works for me as a way to know Harry without his team, a pure form so to speak.
And when some bad things happen to more than one of his new friends, sorting things out start getting desperate.
Because Harry is only visiting, I am expecting gains in pleasure from a wider ensemble of long term characters.
:)Hari...
I naravno problemom sa picem, so...No videcemo, svi kazu da su prve dve knjige lose, a ja sam poslusao savet pa krenuo od pocetka.Pretpostavljam da nije prodato na milione primeraka ovog serijala bez razloga, te cu nastaviti dalje, ali za sad mi je i dalje Tana French najbolji moderni/danasnji pisac krimi romana.Slabasna trojka.Da, strasno me nervirao ogroman broj recenica napisanih na engleskom, I mean wtf?Onaj ko razume, razume, onaj ko ne razume mora svako malo da bulji na dno stranice da bi saznao o cemu se radi.
I really enjoyed this first novel!
Although Nesbo’s first novel, publishers took the decision to publish his novels from the third in the series onwards.
Only in retrospect were the first two published.
Apparently this first is different in tone and lighter than its sequels...some say that Nesbo has matured as a writer in later books..others speculate that maybe the translations were better later on.
Well I found this story dark enough and I thought the translation, a good one, not clunky as some translations suffer from.
I look forward to reading more about Harry Hole back on his home turf.
I really wanted to like this first Harry Hole novel, but I'm afraid I found it rather far fetched and dull.
For me the best thing about Jo Nesbo's Harry Hole novels is their dark and moody Norwegian setting, so perhaps I didn't like The Bat because it's set in Sydney.
A Norwegian girl is found brutally murdered, and the Australian police send for a Norwegian policeman to pacify the country's Embassy.
What follows is Australia through the eyes of a damaged, t-toal, young Norwegian policeman.
Harry, who himself is struggling to come to terms with already a checkered police career at home, tries to make sense of murder mystery down under.
Can Harry and company track down and stop the murderer before he kills again?Like seemingly everyone on the planet, I enjoyed Stieg Larsson’s Millennium Trilogy and after I closed the book on the final novel, I began hearing that this Jo Nesbo guy was someone I should check out.
I was hesitant at first as it felt like the publishing world was trying to cash in on Larsson’s success by quickly throwing out the first Scandinavian crime writer (similar to the influx of post-grunge music in the mid 1990s) they found in an effort to capitalize on the public’s newfound interest in Scandinavian crime.
Turns out that the first two novels in the Harry Hole series had yet to be translated to English.
This being my first read of the author, I was able to start with his #1 in the Harry Hole series which was just translated into English in 2012.The Bat, set in Sydney, finds Harry Hole looking for the murderer of a young Norwegian woman.
The book is a little bit odd as Hole keeps on changing his mind as to whom the killer is.
Who on earth would put a woman they loved in harm's way with a serial killer?The Harry Hole series does shows promise.
Many GR friends say his later books are superior.
3.5 StarsA solid mystery featuring the infamous detective with the equally infamous moniker that is a set up for all sorts of well… you know.Regardless, not a bad mystery. Hole definitely has a shit ton of demons - past and present - and despite them or because of them most likely, he still gets the job done in his own unconventional way. Decent enough - I’m not opposed to delving into more.
First off: If you've never read Jo Nesbo, DON'T start with this one.
Nesbo's first Harry Hole book and the least accomplished.
It's set in Sydney and just when I though I would lose the will to live if I had to read/hear one more Aboriginal creation myth used to explain the mysteries of life; on about pg.
As usual, plenty of suspension of disbelief required but it does eventually work itself up into a bit of page-turner.
Overall Harry seems a bit too happy and well, normal, in sunny climes.
Ισως 2.5 αστεράκια. Πρώτη επαφή με τον Νέσμπο και βαρέθηκα. Συγνώμη Νέσμπο, συγνώμη κύριε Χόλε. Οι τόσες πολλές λεπτομέρειες μεσα στο βιβλίο με κούρασαν. Ο χαρακτήρας του Χάρι Χόλε θέλει ακόμα χτίσιμο, το οποίο ο συγγραφέας πιστεύω θα κάνει μέσα στα επόμενα βιβλία. Παρ'όλα αυτά επειδή ακούω τα καλύτερα γι αυτή τη σειρά βιβλίων και γενικά για τον κύριο Νέσμπο θα τη συνεχίσω.
In regards to this book buying situation I think I should deduct points because he stepped out of my fav zone and picked one at random based on the idea that he saw me read a book this guy wrote once.
One point for going out on a limb and buying one that isn’t on my fav list.
Deduct two points for picking a book that was eleventh in a series which forces me to have to read the ten before it.
Η αλήθεια είναι ότι από το πρώτο, δεν προμηνυόταν τέτοια επιτυχία.
Δεν θα το πρότεινα σε κάποιον για να γνωρίσει τον συγγραφέα.
Θεωρώ μια πολύ καλή επιλογή για αυτό, τον Κοκκινολαίμη και μετά η λογική λέει να τα πάρεις με την σειρά , από εκεί κι έπειτα.
Όλο αυτό, βέβαια , μας δείχνει ότι τελικά το σημαντικό για έναν συγγραφέα δεν είναι να βγάλει , απλά, ένα δυνατό ντεμπούτο, το σημαντικό είναι στα επόμενα του βιβλία να μην μείνει στάσιμος, να εξελίσσεται, να βελτιώνεται και να μας παρουσιάζει καλύτερα βιβλία.
If you're like me, you probably encountered the Jo Nesbø phenomenon by reading one of his more recent Harry Hole novels (for me it was The Snowman that sold me), and if you're like me, you have a nagging feeling you're missing something when skipping the first installments of an episodic police thriller series, you'd then feel the overwhelming need to start with The Bat.I gotta tell you: this was...not very good.
(He more seems like a fish out of water than a bad-ass he demonstrated later; was he trying to appease audiences who prefer travelogues with their police procedurals?) There's evidence in dribs and drabs of the Harry Hole I remember enjoying, but the writing on display...just seems off here.
M' αρέσει που αγόρασα και την επετειακή έκδοση, μιας και είναι το πρώτο βιβλίο που έγραψε ο Nesbo.Δεν μου άρεσε, η πλοκή ήταν άνευρη, άτονη και έξω από τα συνηθισμένα του συγγραφέα.Επανάληψη, φλυαρία με ελάχιστο αστυνομικό σασπένς, που δεν έβλεπα την ώρα να το τελειώσω.Ενδιαφέρουσα η αναφορά, οι ιστορίες και οι μύθοι γύρω από τους Αβορίγινες της Αυστραλίας.Τρία αστεράκια, μόνο γιατί είναι το πρώτο του και γιατί είναι Nesbo.Kαλές αναγνώσεις!
