https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25010281-the-crossing
Michael Connelly is a class act and in Harry Bosch he’s created one of the best crime stoppers in contemporary fiction – fact!
Connelly has also demonstrated an ability to branch off and develop additional compelling characters, like Mickey Haller (The Lincoln Lawyer).
Bosch is certainly the main act here, with Haller very much in a supporting role.
I'd quite happily spend a whole reading year working through the novels of this trinity.The only pity is that I guess I've now got to wait another year for another offering from Connelly.
Or maybe I should start from the beginning and work my way through them all again...
Harry pulls the pin and takes retirement before that can happen and he then sues the department for its actions against him.Harry is now off the job and rebuilding a vintage motorcycle, when his half-brother, Mickey Haller--the "Lincoln Lawyer"-- tries to hire him.
Harry thus refuses, but Mickey convinces him to at least take a look at the Murder Book--the log of the investigation that the police have turned over to the defense.
Nobody does police procedural as well as Connelly, and it's a lot of fun watching Harry attempt to pursue the case from outside the police department.
Connelly writes some of the best police procedurals around.
Pairing Bosch, with Heller was pure genius.
Never one to settle for easy answers, Bosch pursues justice wherever it takes him.
He needs to understand how everything is pieced together, find out who is guilty and what they had to gain.
In this case, thanks to Bosch, temporarily, well maybe, working for the dark side.
No longer a detective will he now pursue justice from the other side?
New love interest, maybe?Solid writing, brilliant characters and a great mixing of a legal thriller with a very good police procedure.
Another well done Harry Bosch novel.
This time, Harry is playing for the opposing side, helping his half brother Micky Haller.
He struggles for a long time with the whole idea of crossing over to the dark side, as he thinks of the defense.
Even though you know who the bad guys are, it's the means by which Harry unravels the clues that provides the intrigue.
He even sounds like I would expect Harry to sound.
It's not that he attempts to create a different voice for each character.
It's just that his voice mirrors how I envision Harry's.
And when the bad guys first compromise a secondary victim to cross the line into playing ball with their corrupt sceme.The bad guys in this case are vice squad cops, which we soon learn by the narrative technique of showing some of their activities out of Harry’s purview.
We don’t get a lot on what matters in Harry’s life, so the little windows such as texting with his daughter at camp, playing a certain jazz record, or small elements of dialog with police members he respects have to serve as minimalist clues to my detective work on that score as a reader.
When Mickey asks him to serve as his investigator for a client he’s certain is innocent, obviously Harry is reluctant to play on the team for the “other side” but agrees to look into it for him.
The more he probes, the more he’s convinced that Mickey’s client was set up to cover up something much more sinister.
When I learned that Harry and Mickey would be teamed for this story I set my expectations pretty high and they were surpassed.
But, the highlight of this story was seeing how Harry and Mickey’s styles connect and clash.
I really enjoy reading Michael Connelly's books.
Harry Bosch is asked by his half brother, Mickey Haller, a lawyer, to become his new investigator.
Haller's previous investigator, Cisco, was badly injured when a car cut off his motorcycle in traffic.
Haller is convinced his client, Da'Quan Foster is innocent of the murder that he is accused of.
Harry doesn't want to become a defense investigator, viewing it as crossing to the dark side, but agrees to look at the murder book as a favor to Mickey.
When he reads the murder book, he finds discrepancies and leads not followed up.
Superb, as always. A few political glitches that maybe half or less of readers will notice. Beyond that, Connelly doesn't waste a clue and develops Bosch even further when he crosses (double meaning in the title) to defense work to catch a killer.Wonderful pacing and, as always, I like the southern California setting. Bosch is a master.
Michael Connelly’s Harry Bosch Series is one of my favorite crime series and I always eagerly wait for the next installment.So, The Crossing, the 20th book in the series takes us on Harry Bosch, the maverick cop now forced with early retirement from the LAPD…new career move.Unable to bear with nothing to do in his life, he decides to take on an investigation for his half-brother, Mickey Haller, the slick and not your typical defense lawyer.
4.5★sWhen Harry Bosch’s half-brother, Mickey Haller asked him to assist in proving a client innocent, Harry immediately said no.
But the more he discovered about the case, the more he realized that Haller was probably right – and that meant there was still a killer out there.
That’s what Harry did best; although retired, it felt good to be hunting for a killer again.But in doing what he was doing, Harry immediately put a target on his own back.
#18 for Harry Bosch, the combination of him and Mickey Haller (series #6) is a good fit.
I knew that Harry had retired from LAPD and was curious how that was going to work out in this book.
Connelly found a way!
The title is very symbolic: Harry crossing to the "dark side," perp and victim crossing paths, cops crossing lines.
It remains to be seen if Harry wins his lawsuit, and I have no idea where Connelly is headed with Harry next.The one irritant for me in this book is Maddy.
I really don't like her attitude.
I find it hard to have sympathy for her.I laughed out loud at Chapter 12!!
I'm not saying more.
The 20th book in the Harry Bosch series by the talented Michael Connelly.Having read and enjoyed virtually everything this author has ever written I always felt that I was going to enjoy this book.
Having finished with the Police, Harry Bosch joins forces with the Lincoln Lawyer Mickey Haller to defend Leland Foster, from being convicted of a brutal murder.
While Patterson books are always full of action, Connelly offers so much more, realistic plots, strong characters and to be honest the books are far better written.If you have enjoyed reading other books in this series I am sure you will enjoy this one as well.
If you are a Michael Connelly follower, this is like being served breakfast in bed.
It's deeply satisfying.Connelly brings our two favorites together in a storyline that sparks like a tragic tango on a Saturday night.
It's rape and it's murder and there's vibrating DNA involved.The title of the book is filled with characters crossing back and forth into both light and dark, certainty and uncertainty.
The storyline showcases more of Bosch's brilliance while Haller drifts in on cue.
Connelly is a master of analysis and investigative art.
The Crossing delivers.
Bravo, Michael Connelly!
Once again, Connelly’s attention to detail, as well as his ability to personify Bosch, even after 20 years of novels is something quite spooky.
As some will know from my past reviews of the series (Everybody counts or nobody counts: "The Burning Room" by Michael Connelly, "The Gods of Guilt" by Michael Connelly), the interlacing of characters from his other series brings each book new life and forces me to pick them all up, even if Bosch only makes a cameo therein.
Such a treat to get to read another one of Michael Connelly's Harry Bosch books.
In this latest one, Bosch has been fired from the LAPD for things that happened in the last instalment of the series, and he crosses over to help investigate a case his half brother defence lawyer Mickey Haller is working on.
Bosch is reluctant to cross the line to work on the defence side, but he comes round when he becomes convinced that Haller's client didn't do it and then gets into full cop mode to figure out who did.
All My Friends are Heathens, Take it Slow Connelly still has the magic touch with Harry Bosch. To be sure, Connelly takes shortcuts and makes a couple of turns of story that seem a bit implausible. Yet, Bosch is such an intriguing, cool and quick-witted character, so damaged he seems real and you care what happens.I find the Bosch books like comfort or soul food; no matter how the story is wrapped, you'll revel as you binge, not stopping (if you can help it) 'til you're finished.This, the lates
Yet, Bosch is such an intriguing, cool and quick-witted character, so damaged he seems real and you care what happens.I find the Bosch books like comfort or soul food; no matter how the story is wrapped, you'll revel as you binge, not stopping (if you can help it) 'til you're finished.This, the latest Harry Bosch novel, considerably betters the prior in the series, The Burning Room.
Here, Bosch, a retired LAPD detective, steps in to take on a job as PI to help his attorney half-brother Mickey Haller defend a client against a murder charge.
After an initial review of the "murder book," Bosch takes the job, but very reluctantly because he doesn't want to offend his former comrades in the force or his "cop principles" by "crossing" over to the other side.
This is my new favorite Michael Connelly book.
(It's not even something he swore he'd never do because it never occurred to him that he'd ever even consider working for a defense attorney.) But when Mickey swore that his client was innocent, that the real killer is still out there...well, that gets Harry Bosch interested.Even so---and even when he agrees that DaQuan didn't do it---Harry almost hates himself for helping the defense.That alone makes this a must-read...except that it's not just that; this has everything you'd expect from a Michael Connelly novel going for it.
The client and Haller say he’s innocent.
Bosch soothes his conscience by telling himself if the client is really innocent someone else is guilty and Bosch needs to take him off the street.
So, Bosch has to find the “real” killer but Haller just has to show that his client didn’t do it.
Because they are working against the coldest and smartest of killers it’s a real race to see if Bosch and Haller even survive long enough to win.I just wish Connelly put a book out every month instead of every year.
Wallowing in boredom, involuntarily retired LAPD detective Harry Bosch is asked by his half-brother, defense attorney, Mickey Haller, to help prove the innocence of his client Da'Quan Foster, in the vicious beating death of Alexandra Parks, an assistant city manger for West Hollywood.
Harry has to deal with self-recrimination as he has always prosecuted criminals; the notion of defending a criminal and invoking the wrath of his brothers in blue is abhorrent.
However, he has few friends on the force, and his moral compass allows him to seek the truth, even if it damns the defendant.
Solid Bosch, mostly Bosch, mostly The Mission. Some scenes between Bosch and Haller are a bit clumsy, but mostly this is Harry's show. Thankfully. Not too much courtroom, which I find is ponderous, especially in the modern world. No more Perry Mason.. * sighs * One thing this story lacks, which other Bosch books don't, is the often deep insight into Harry's soul and the human condition. Still, this is good, solid and entertaining Harry.
THE BEST BOSCH YET!!!My View:This book…the big question now that I have read The Crossing is can this series get any better???Yes I know I am a passionate fan of the Harry Bosch series, yes I have read every one of the twenty books in this series and yes book number nineteen was great ( and I loved the first few book in the series and pretty much loved al the rest of them) …but this book…just AMAZINGLY GOOD! Now that fervour of admiration has been shared  let’s have a closer less emotional look
The most gruesome scene – p81 – “a shadowed recess beside a pedestrian entrance to a public parking garage…as he moved in the shadows he nearly tipped over something.
He kicked the man in the ribs as he moved on all fours.
Ellis felt the impact of the kick through his whole leg and knew he had broken a bone…before he could scream, Ellis stomped down hard on the man’s throat with all his weight, crushing the air passage.
The man was silent and unmoving after that.” This blatant disregard for another human being is uncomfortable reading and perfectly reflects the character of Ellis – evil, thoughtless, emotionless and most likely a narcissist.
Michael Connelly, IMO, writes the best legal mysteries out there, and this is no exception. An excellent plot, smoothly written, with interesting characters. Bosch & Haller together is a winning combination. Bosch on the defense side is terrific.
To me, he has become real and I’m very aware of the utter despair that I feel, knowing that I’m coming to the end of this wonderful series.
Michael Connelly has created something amazing in Harry Bosch.
Twenty books into a series and I’m craving more.
Gosh, I’m usually bored by any series beyond book three.
Onto book 21 in the series for my answer.
I just don’t know what I’d do without Harry Bosch in my life.
If you have read Michael Connelly, then you’ll surely appreciate why.
He finds a link to follow of a $6,000 Royal Collector's watch bought by a Dr. Schubert & sent for repairs by his wife to a repair shop run by the Hguyen brothers, is missing.
Many deaths include - Dr. Schubert who bought the watch, Lexi Parks who sent it for repairs, repair store brothers, Hguyen & Kevin Long.(view spoiler)[Da'Quan Foster was being framed by Kevin Long & Don Ellis with DNA evidence for the Lexi Parks murder, they took money & valuables from the house.
Top 50 Books of 2015  " Best Audiobook (tie), Best Collaboration: Haller/ Bosch and Welliver /Connelly.
Mickey Haller, Harry Bosch, Titus Welliver, and Michael Connelly fans will devour THE CROSSING, (Harry Bosch, #20) expertly crafted by the "King" of Crime Thrillers.
Detective Hieronymus 'Harry' Bosch, a literary character created by Connelly in 1992 novel  The Black Echo,  and a veteran police homicide detective with the LAPD.
Now he is looking for cop screw ups.With the help  of his former LAPD partner, Lucia Soto, The Burning Room he turns the investigation inside to the police department—however, the closer he gets to the truth, the greater the danger.
SWEDISH REVIEW Det är alltid intressant att läsa en den senaste boken i en serie, där man tidigare bara har läst en bok innan och i detta fall den allra första boken. Och, eftersom detta är bok 20 så har jag några böcker att ta igen. Dock, var det absolut inga problem att läsa denna bok, utan att ha läste de 18 böcker mellan första och denna. Tvärtom, var det synnerligen enkelt att fastna i handlingen och det tog med bara en dag att läsa klart den, både tack vare att den var lättläst (och inte
Det är alltid intressant att läsa en den senaste boken i en serie, där man tidigare bara har läst en bok innan och i detta fall den allra första boken.
Dock, så verkar det inte som han ska få tid över att meka med motorcykeln som har stått och väntat på honom i några årtionden.
It was fun to read this book, I feel like I should take and prioritize Connelly and perhaps actually take the time and read the 18 books I missed.Thanks to Norstedts for the review copy!
At the same time Harry's half-brother, attorney Mickey Haller (The Lincoln Lawyer), is defending former gang member Da'Quan Foster, who's accused of raping and murdering assistant city manager Lexi Park.
Nevertheless, Harry takes a look at the LAPD's murder book and gets an inkling that Da'Quan might actually be innocent.
The clue that intrigues Harry most is Lexi's expensive watch, which is missing.
Then, when Harry starts to investigate the missing watch, more people are murdered.
I enjoyed the book and recommend it to mystery lovers - especially fans of Harry Bosch and Mickey Haller.
Defense attorney Mickey Haller asks a favor of his half-brother, Harry Bosch.
Mickey's client, Da'Quann Foster, was arrested for the rape and murder of Lexi Parks.
Mickey believes that his client is innocent and the evidence against him was planted.
He asks Bosch to look into the murder and help him find evidence that will lead to reasonable doubt.
But when he reads the murder book, he has some questions that he wants answered.
Not only does he think that Foster may be innocent, but he wants to find the real killer.I love that Connelly put both Harry Bosch and Mickey Haller in this book.
Normally I avoid to put a book on my TBR so much time in advance.
Ok, Mickey Haller's there as well :)Nov. 5, 2015:Short question: anybody else got 'The Brass Verdict' delivered with this kindle edition???So, finished!
I hope, Haller and Bosch will work more cases together.
Yes, Haller was part of the story, but overall it was Bosch who was in the focus.
And that was ok and appreciated by this reader :)I liked the way the daughter was mentioned and part of the story.
The whole time.
Connelly knows what's he's writing about and it shows in all the details, whether it's about crime on the street, police procedure investigating it, courtroom procedure prosecuting it, or internal affairs stepping in when things go wrong.
Retirement doesn't agree with Bosch who putters around his house working on a long neglected project that brings him little satisfaction compared to him bringing justice to crime victims.
And now his half brother, Mickey Haller, celebrated defense attorney, has come calling to ask Bosch's help in proving Haller's client innocent of murder, with Bosch acting as his stand-in investigator.
