https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10890.Traveling_Mercies
I bought this book the day before I had a late-night conversation with life-time friends about religion, and heritage, rational thought vs "faith," and personal responsibility.
I learned a lot from that conversation.
Indeed, I think I keep learning from it.
Can a rational, free-thinking, independent person have religious faith?
But I do like that Anne Lamott shows that there is a benefit in this heritage.
I like to think that she also shows that it is possible to believe in the underlying principles without conceding to the myopic politics of many contemporary institutions.
Annie Lamott earned her place as my very favourite Author and person-I-want-to-be-like-when-I-grow-up with this book.
It's a "spiritual memoir" of sorts, written by a funny, idealistic, liberal, reformed imperfect prophetess alcoholic.
Anne Lamott has had a colourful life, to be sure, but when a series of painful experiences and a lifetime of personal struggles with weight, relationships and career seem to take over, Anne becomes bulemic, alcoholic, and at times, suicidal.
Annie reminds us that the hard stuff is the true stuff, but that it can be told with life-giving humor and grace.
I'm having a hard time identifying why I didn't really enjoy this book. Many of the stories and the related "morals" resonated with me and the author presents them in a very palatable form which is surprising to me given the strong christian current running throughout the book. But yet, I did not look forward to picking this up and found myself reading it just to get it over with.
But even more important is that while Miller holds true to the Bible (after evaluating whether or not Christianity is something he believes), Lamott seems to pick and choose whatever she wants to about what God's word says.
I really appreciated how Miller addressed tough questions and issues in Blue Like Jazz- especially how to be friends, accept, and tolerate his non-believer friends while at the same time holding true to God's word.
Lamott doesn't ever seem to address some of those absolutes in God's word and instead appears to ignore what the Bible says.
This book is a number of essays on a variety of issues -- getting older, handicapped people, what you can learn when you hurt yourself on a ski slope.
(It might be worth a read for priests and seminarians who want to understand the mind of the Sixties generation which is still very much with us.) But, in the end, I am enough spoiled by the Academic approach to chuck aside a book with a tinge of disgust that vilified any politics or morality besides its own while failing to be conscious (or honest) about its own inner contradictions and problems.
A great writer, whether you like the terrain or not.I have not read any of her other books, but I am a big fan of this one.
It is humourous and dear, ripe with blasphemy and deep spirituality all at once, which is just how i like it.Anne Lamott writes about life and christianity with very real and human eyes.
She is blunt but tender in her thoughts, highly educated and yet unafraid to show sentimentality.
I would highly recommend this book.
I had been thinking my Aunt quite a bit in the last week or so, missing her more intensely than I normally do in the normal course of life.
Then she started to talk to me, just as my Aunt would have talked to a total stranger, about what she was doing that day, where she was going, her kids, her earlier life, crocheting caps for cancer patients and so forth.
At the end of the week I learned that in the christian church All Saints Day is supposed to signify a time when the boundary between this world and the next, the material and the spiritual is said to be very thin.
She is a very sensitive, funny, and open-hearted writer, not ashamed to admit her inadequacies.
A friend of mine called her a "narcissistic alcoholic." Which I suppose is true, but she is also a gifted and talented writer.
Lamott loathed her and looked for reasons to be irritated; doing exactly what all of us do in that position, thinking thoughts that "would make Jesus want to drink gin straight out of the cat dish." But finally she had an epiphany and realized that she had turned herself into a little J.
Horrible thought for a liberal.
But funny, and memorable, especially at times when you find yourself doing it again.
And I really liked her, although, judging by her reaction to every single conservative Christian mentioned in the book I doubt she'd have had any time for someone like me.
Going by this book, which was all about her- every detail was about her, every character about some aspect of herself, every event about her reaction, even the prayer she offers up when her small son was facing cancer was for herself not for the boy- she's never even considered turning to God and submitting herself to him for relief.
The point is that really, truly, we don't know what's best for ourselves but that Almighty God does and he loves us enough to tell us.
But in general, this is religion lite: an occasionally moving (deeply moving - when she succeeds, Lamott really succeeds), often funny, usually frustrating collection of thoughts from someone who seems to like God but doesn't seem to know any more about him than that (to the point of referring to God's gender with "his or her" and making statements like, "If there's a heaven, I imagine it will be like snorkeling.").Lamott herself can be quite irritating - she is open about her quirks, her struggles, her neediness (she describes one boyfriend as being unable to deal with her tears and fears, and I found myself sympathizing with him).
All I should say, is that this book wasn't for me. Perhaps if I was twenty-five years older and a women who frequently goes to church, then I would really be taken away with this one. I understand her appeal as a writer, but it didn't get me.I'm not anti-religion by any means, I'm open to spirituality; that is probably why I read this book. However, I don't think at this point in my life it means much to me. But who knows? Life changes.
I liked Lamott's tenderness in the face of real-life situations.
I am a better person for having read this.
"I believe that when all is said and done, all you can do is to show up for someone in crisis, which seems so inadequate.
Your there-ness, your stepping into a scared (person's) line of vision, can be life giving, because often everyone else is in hiding.
So you come to keep them company when it feels like the whole world is falling apart, and your being there says that just for this moment, this one tiny piece of the world is OK, or is at least better."
if I were in the position of Saint Peter, I don't know if Anne Lamott would make it through the Pearly Gates.
But I'm not, so I absolutely loved this book that tickled my funny bone and stabbed my heart.
All right, Jesus, You can come in." After being at Mount Level, her descriptions of Saint Andrew resonate deeply with me.
I adored her descriptions of her friends as unrelentingly beautiful.
And oh, how I loved the Aunties.
May I adore the Aunties, be as proud of them.
As Anne Lamott might say, "Thank you, Thank you, Thank you" for this book.
Onvan : Traveling Mercies: Some Thoughts on Faith - Nevisande : Anne Lamott - ISBN : 385496095 - ISBN13 : 9780385496094 - Dar 275 Safhe - Saal e Chap : 1999
I felt that Anne Lamott had invited me into her home for a cup of tea and while she wrapped me around a quilt that she had knit herself, shared her thoughts and stories on spirituality, life, her son, and herself.
Once in a while, one gets quite saddened that a book is about to end, that a voice is about to close, and that is how I felt when I read the last page.
I’ve been reading many spiritual memoirs lately, and this is one of the best thus far.
After reading the first 1/3 of this memoir by Anne Lamott, I found myself wondering how she was still alive.
Basically she was an alcoholic, drug addicted, bulemic, teenager who was raised "by a village" since her parents were "otherwise engaged." ( it was after all the 1960's.
This book takes us on the often precarious journey through her troubled past and with humor and not a small amount of irreverence, shows us how she comes to walk a path of quirky , but to her life affirming, and possibly life saving faith.
4 stars * playlist to follow on separate thread
I'm only writing this because the book's description makes Lamott sound so boringly inspirational, whereas she's a hilarious hot mess and the best spokesperson for faith I can think of. My two greatest takeaways are: give away your magazines to strangers because they really like that, and you don't have to wait to become an old crone to enjoy being one.
Anne Lemott, Annie--as it appears her friends call her--lets us into her world and shares a very personal and poignant path of a unique and awkward girl taking off her "glasses of puberty" and coming of age.
I always thought that was heroic of her, that it spoke of such integrity to refuse to pretend that you're doing well just to help other people deal with the fact that sometimes we face an impossible loss."The underlying theme throughout each brutally honest passage is the message of her faith in God and how she came to discover this faith.
One can't help but come to love this child of God, and everyone in her life.
Anne Lamott shares her hilariously funny and at times deeply moving perspective on God and her relationship with Him in a way that makes me want to immediately drop what I'm doing and take my daughter to church.
I think that everyone can identify with at least one of her struggles, which range from alcoholism to the shape of her thighs.
I was completely absorbed in her internal struggles with alcohol and drugs and self-acceptance, among other things.
Also she has a way of describing her not-so-great choices and she's-only-human qualities that made me stop what I was reading to laugh out loud.
If you can handle some spirtituality in the form of a black church, Ram Dass quotes, and dreadlocks, then you will thoroughly enjoy this creatively written memoir of a 40-something, single mother, who's been through it all. It includes valuable and often comic insight on alcoholism, relationships with men, food and ourself, as well as motherhood and finding grace in impossible situations. Including a cast of interesting characters, Lamott presents a story to which any woman can not only relate but really benefit from the perspectives she gains on her quirky adventures.
This book got super bipolar reviews, so I was nervous until the moment I opened it for the first time, and the barista at a very hipster coffee shop brought me my coffee, looked at it, and said "5 stars, for sure." She was right. I read it in 3 days, in giant leather chairs with strong coffee and during thunderstorms, on my couch with tea, and it was therapy. Not everything the author says lines up for me theologically, but still, the whole experience was like a balm for the soul.
I felt a mix of things for this book. The thing that stands out most in my memory, though, having read a couple books since finishing this one, is that she kept referring to God as "She". It's not that I stand firmly by a belief in God as a man with a giant white beard, but I felt almost that the author was trying to be casually shocking, like she's been liberated and enlightened.
With each book I’ve read, I’ve appreciated her technical skill more, but her personality less.
If these were fiction, I could ignore that; however, the problem with memoirs—which is mostly what these books are—is that personality is a big part of the source material.
It probably didn’t help that much of the material in Small Victories was originally from this book, Traveling Mercies.
She claims, “I hate being the kind of person who tries to get someone with stage-four metastatic lung cancer to feel sorry for her just because she has a headache.” Frankly, I didn’t believe her.

Having read Bird by Bird: Some Instructions on Writing and Life years ago, I was familiar with Anne Lamott’s delightful writing style, and thought Traveling Mercies would be a good one to take on vacation.
Nevertheless, it is an encouraging read for believers who may struggle to know whether they are the only ones who doubt, fear, yell at their kids, find subtle hints of God’s presence uplifting, wrestle to know how to pray, or feel sadness when others may think the grief should have passed; they are not.
As a result, Traveling Mercies will show us someone who we recognize as both familiar and, at times, a bit more unvarnished than we think is polite.
I've loved Anne Lamott ever since reading 'Bird by Bird,' but this one is--if possible--even more personal and wonderful.
Interestingly, the stark honesty doesn't come across as over-sharing; none of that embarrassing TMI we read and occasionally share on social networks.
One minute you read "courage is fear that has said its prayers" and you revel in the beauty and simplicity and truth of that one short aphorism, then the next minute you're laughing aloud at her confessions of going to Mexico on vacation and "start(ing) off in heavy Butt Mind on the plane," and then seeing several nubile teenagers, whom she describes as "mostly youthful and bouncy and physically stunning, if you happen to find tan lean youth attractive." Ha!
I worship at Anne Lamott's shrine, even if she would be embarrassed by such an act.
I thought Traveling Mercies sounded like an interesting book from the title, and was recommended by a fellow overseas co-worker as a good one to read as a world traveler.
Traveling Mercies chronicles author Anne Lamott's journey to faith through a diversity of religious & not-so-religious experiences.
I may never know -- Any insight from a reader who's finished the book?) My disappointment in the book stemmed from the weird twist the author gave to her "testimony." Lamott's story of her journey to faith quickly developed a sense of nostalgia.
I adore Anne Lamott and this book.
She is the most realistic Christian woman I have read in quite a long time, if not ever.
Without being preachy or making me feel like I've got it all wrong (like many Christian books on faith seem to do) Anne writes about herself with such brutal, knock you upside the head truth; from her admission that her thighs reveal a mom who has forgotten to work out, to her distain of another mom at her son's school that she secretly loathes.
I can't wait to get my hands on her another Anne Lamott book.
I usually enjoy Anne Lamott's writing, but I wasn't crazy about Traveling Mercies.
It's a memoir of Lamott's religious faith, which is predominantly Christian but with a little Buddhist philosophy and the occasional slogan from a motivational poster thrown in when it suits her.
It's subtitled "Some Thoughts on Faith," yet I get the sense that she hasn't thought deeply about any of this; at times it seems almost deliberately naive.
In general, I found the writing to be, for Lamott, uncharacteristically overwrought.
However, by the end, it was clear that there wasn't that much different between me and author after all.I came away with that warm fuzzy feeling that faith and conversion is personal and sacred and something that changes you forever.
Most importantly, it cemented my belief that there are so many wonderful things we can relate to and understand in one another, that if we just try a little harder to see them, that perhaps everyone would get along a little better.We read this for a book club and I think (or hope) that our discussion of the book was both thorough and enjoyable.
I ended up liking it more after we'd discussed it together.
