https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/676640.The_Art_of_Walt_Disney
This, apparently the most recent edition of The Art of Walt Disney, dates from 2004.
This book tries to cover a lot.
Why bother covering The Disney Afternoon if you can only give it a few paragraphs, and most of the shows only get one sentence?
And the older the work, the more information given about it.
As time goes by, the sections about each work gets shorter and shorter.
Not so much.Any book with "art" in the title needs to have great illustrations, and there's some really good stuff in here.
And this is, of course, the real attraction of the book, and why I enjoyed it.
One of the most beautiful and educative books I ever read. Shows you how f.i. "Snow White" came to be not simply an astounding movie, but one of the 20th century's major works of art. (I lent this wonderful (and very expensive) book, a birthday gift from a cherished ex-loved one, to my then girlfriend's brother more than twenty years ago, under the explicit condition that I wanted it back within three months ... I'm still waiting ... the bastard!)
[NOTE: I am reading the 1973 version, so the last movie referenced is The Aristocats A massive coffee-table format book that delves into history of the Walt Disney Studios through the artwork of its cartoon shorts, movies, live-action films and the theme parks.
The final chapters dealing with the theme parks - Disneyland and the newly-opened Walt Disney World (with only the Magic Kingdom, and 2 hotels - the Contemporary & the Polynesian in operation) were quite interesting; as was the article from an architectural magazine - the author's name escapes me at the moment.
Definitely worth our purchase price (a steal at $7 used) - recommended to anyone interested in the design and art behind the Walt Disney Productions empire.
Having read the biography of Disney this was a nice follow-up. It deals mainly (as the title implies) with the artistic side of the business: how Disney started as a company, what innovations they brought to movie making, especially animated movies, the artistic process of the early movies and some of the later movies, the big breakthroughs, and finally the conception of the idea of Walt Disney world and how it was realized. Very interesting read, nicely complemented with pictures from Disney's life, early sketches, movies, etc.
All our dreams can come true, if we have the courage to pursue them.
After Finch showed how Disney’s mind worked to create his short films and movies.
152)	The Art of Walt Disney: From Mickey Mouse to The Magic Kingdoms influenced me to do my MGRP on Walt Disney because the book showed me how interesting Walt Disney is and what made him want to make his company the way that he did.
Finch showed that Walt Disney started off with short films and went to make larger movies and soon the Disney Parks.
There have been several updated versions over the years.
The one that I have is the original 1973 version, which is what I'll be describing.
In the section on the features, more attention is given to Snow White, Pinocchio, and Fantasia than any other feature which shouldn't be too surprising since those were the first 3 films which were made when the quality if Disney animation was at its pinnacle.
The 1973 edition has a section on the making of the then new release Robin Hood, which has had little coverage in any Disney book.I highly recommend getting the 1973 or 1995 edition.
I found the book as a whole to be a fascinating dive into animation history offering complex critical analyses of the Disney canon.
Much of those chapters merely offer a cursory history of their development and listing of their unique offerings without much analysis of their artistic or cultural success like Finch offers for the films.
However, more effort could have been given to showing how the developments in the parks were extensions of knowledge gained from animation and film.Overall, I really enjoyed the book.
It renewed my appreciation and increased my knowledge of animation and the Walt Disney Company as a whole.
A fascinating look into the processes of Walt Disney's many creative projects -- from his early animated cartoons and feature films, to the planning and beginnings of Disneyland and Walt Disney World -- which, although written in almost a dry, textbook style, nevertheless is chock-full of interesting behind-the-scenes information as well as critiques of the actual artistic factors of each.
Sprinkled with samples, sketches, and photographs, the book merely scratches the surface of what could have been explored in its pages; but what is there seemed a good snack, and a concise overview.I love how the "nerdy" side of things is not much overlooked in this book, but is included in the treatment of each project.
A further issue that I had with this was that it made it seem, in most cases, like there were no slip-ups in the path of the company, other than 'The Black Cauldron'.
There were plenty of financial issues and issues with unions and stuff which would have been interesting to delve into - it makes it seem like Walt Disney was some kind of genius who was never wrong which is simply false as no one is like that.
Regardless, it's a very pretty book and I would recommend it if you like anything Disney, no matter how dedicated you are.
More or less the same as From Mickey Mouse to Beauty and the Beast. Not as much info on the parks as I would have liked and really just a retread of what I have already read.
I consider that Disney books can be roughly grouped in different categories, according to what they focus on: history, animation, art, business, keepsakes & collectibles, imagineering & parks, live-action movies, to name some of them.
Normally, they focus on one or two of those things, but this book offers a wider view, which goes through history, animation, live-action, business and theme parks through the years of the company.
I longed for the 2011 edition for a long time, but I came across the rare 1999 concise edition and decided to give it a go, since adding at least one The Art of Walt Disney book to my Disney collection was greatly needed.
His movies showed the world what could be done with animation and his constant drive to push technology and creativity forward paved the way for the Disneyland resorts and entire areas of entertainment that were unheard of when he first began his company in the 1930s.This massive tome goes into great detail about the creation of his animated shorts which in turn led to the first animated movie 'Snow White and the Seven Dwarves." The author discusses how Disney surrounded himself with incredibly talented men and women who were interested in crafting imaginative and thoroughly engrossing films that would be embraced by all.
It's a huge volume, a coffee table style book, with full pages of lavish artwork and concept designs, brought into a framework with a narrative about Disney's beginnings and the creation of each of their works.It runs mostly chronologically, about how Disney got into animation originally, through the creation of Mickey Mouse, production of shorts, and eventual move to feature length films.
I took the short and blunt medicore review of 'The Emporer's New Groove' quite personally (it's my favourite).After the run through the film progression, up to Tangled, the book goes into the development of the Pixar studios, how they became successful and were eventually brought into the Disney fold.
The background information on the films, animated and live-action, as well as the parks all around the world, are exactly what any Disney fan would want to read.There were a few moments when I thought there could have been less synopsis of a movie and more background information.
In fact, some movies seemed to get *just* a synopsis and the author's opinion, no background information at all.
Dinosaur, Treasure Planet, Tarzan, Hercules and worst of all, Alice in Wonderland, were all some of the animated films he labeled as failures.
Finch's book is from 1973, and one of the earliest books on the history of animation, and it still is an excellent introduction to Disney's life and work, from his humble beginnings in Kansas City to the creation of Disney World and EPCOT centre.
To me, as a fan of Disney animation, the book dies out a little when covering Disney's nature documentaries, live action films and theme parks, but Finch manages to show that all these are only different outings of Walt Disney's strong vision on storytelling.
In short, this book cannot be praised enough, as not only one of the first, but still one of the most satisfying introductions on Walt Disney.
The background information was interesting, and I learned a few new things about Disney and animation that I hadn't come across before.I'd have given the book 5 stars, but the Dutch translation was a bit stiff, and sometimes the author seemed to lack a bit of depth in his text, just saying "this movie wasn't as good (as the first three)", but he failed to give clear reasonings.
Don't expect to really get to know Walt Disney however, little time is spent on his character, and he already is a mysterious, distant figure to begin with.
This huge book (500 pages, coffee table size, $85.00) is revised for 2011 to include Pixar, and would be a great gift for any Disney (or art) fan.
I especially love to see attention given to the lighting, color palette, story boards, art direction, and the great work of the artists who work on concept, development, backgrounds, and everything else that gives an animated movie its mood and feel.
I also liked reading about Mary Poppins: "Julie Andrews offered a more youthful and glamorous Mary Poppins than the one found on the printed page, but she also brought a charm and spark of her own, and her vocal and dance talents -- matched to memorable songs -- proved great assets.
This was an excellent treatment of the output of the Disney organization from the days of Walt's personal leadership to the present.
By emphasizing the work, more than the personalities, the author painted a very interesting and valuable picture of the creative output.
Many reviewers have criticized him for not naming enough names up front and distributing credit to the folks that did all of the hard work.
This book is not about people, but about product; and, as long as the reader understands this, the work justifies its contribution to the picture of this unique organization's impact.
Huge tome chock full of wonderful artwork, with an emphasis on Disney’s early years pioneering work in animation.
Given the wide ranging scope of the Disney empire you could never do it justice in one book and Finch mostly succeeds at providing good background for major projects and skimming over less important periods in the company’s history.
Don’t let the size put you off, most of the book’s heft is from all the artwork.
Only took a few days to read the entire book and some parts are definitely best to speed read unless there is a personal favorite you want to know more about.
Actually, I did not choose this book.
On this site, I could not find my book I read.
My book is sold recently.
Moreover, this book is made in Japan.
Therefore, this site does not include this book.Title: Words of Walt Disney-Disney Campany, Level (maybe)3-Time 2013/1/04=120 min-7word summary:Born-animation-brother-Disney-lost-Mickey-world-Discussion questions1.Walt said, "The era we are living in today is a dream coming true."What dream do (did) you have, and will (did) the dream come true?My dream is to be an English teacher, and my dream is coming true.2.He said, "Dreams offer too little collateral to require people."Do you think we should have dreams?
why or why not?Of course, we should have dreams because dreams are a big power.CommentWhen I went to Matsuzaka-ya to see a lot of goods about Disney, I found this book.
It took a while to get through this one (3 weeks for me, I think).
The narrative that goes along with the photographs and other images was very informative, but felt rather unbalanced in which topics were fully explored and which were glossed over.
For example, Pocahontas gets a few paragraphs of explanation (mostly discussing the novelty of the film and the character development), but Mulan gets less than one paragraph to herself (mostly expounding the plot instead of any social or technical advancements that were made with the film).It's a useful book for getting a historical grasp on Walt Disney studios, and an excellent beginner's guide to critiquing many Disney works, but if you're looking for a more technical guide on how the movies were made, or on the creative technique behind any of the films, I would suggest tracking down the individual "making-of" book for that movie instead.
And in 1993 I remember going to Library Antoine and seeing this thick heavy book of around 500 pages filled with illustrations from early Disney till The little mermaid and going crazy over buying it!
I remember saving money from my allowance and begging my mom to take me back to the store to buy it!It's an amazing book about Walter Elias Disney, his beginning in animation and how he came up with the idea of an amusement park, with blue prints to the theme park and its early developments to layouts from the animations, the stories behind each animation up until their productions.
Featuring a wealth of beautiful colourful screencaps and concept art and character sketches, this book will make readers even more appreciative of the absolute magic of the creation of the company's earlier short films, and marvel at how revolutionary pictures like Snow White were.
There is also an insight into Walt Disney's character, and there are facts about the making of all the classics (and the failures too- one thing I really loved about this book is how the movies that were disasters both comercially and artistically were not glossed over, rather the mistakes were discussed).
I remember getting this as a Christmas present as a kid.
Well...actually it wasn't a present for me.
(I think it may have been $35, which I couldn't at the time imagine a book costing.)All the presents had been opened, and there was one last gift under the tree.
The tag said it was for the whole family, but my mom said I could open it.
I spent hours pouring over this book as a kid.
Though, you know, it was a gift for the whole family.
I'll admit, I didn't get to finish reading all of the text before returning it to the library. However, the artwork in this work is incredible. It allows you to really get a feel for the process of developing an animated feature, Disney style. The accompanying text is clear and concise, providing just the right amount of background for you to appreciate the artwork. I would definitely get this again to finish up the chapters on the live action and theme parks. I just ran out of time and someone else wants it...
An interesting read covering a little of Walt Disney's life growing up and his feature shorts and animation movies, how they came about, and the thought of the theme park. Covering some of the animation shorts I watched as a kid and had to look up to watch again was fun, and seeing that not everything Walt did was exactly how he planned, but vision and always trying new things made him revolutionary in animation and film making.
I have had this book for such a long time. I got one of the earlier editions for Christmas one year when I was in grade school and I've had it ever since. My copy is a little worse for wear, especially on the dust jacket, but it has been well loved and oft referenced. The list of potential names for the seven dwarfs (yes, the spelling is intentional) is probably one of my favorite bits in the whole book.
My parents have the bigger thicker version, and I was thrilled to find this smaller version at a used bookstore for my own collection (as the thicker one should remain the family's). I pored over this book as a kid, everytime I wanted to revisit Disneyland I was thrilled as it was right there in my living room. Big huge pictures, informative text, fold-outs, just an awesome presentation. Go out and find it if you don't own it!!
Loved this book!It is suprisingly detailed on the early films but anything post 1970 is too brief and I wanted more on my favourite movies. Any of the artwork would look great framed on the walls at home.What suprised me was that this book, authorised by Disney, covered the taboo subjects I thought would be dismissed. For example: racist 3 little pig cartoons. Devilishly, fascinating!
