https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/163767.The_Man_on_the_Balcony
The worst, like most of the Fantasy and Sci-Fi series that have multiple authors, remain a fascinating way to examine how different authors present their different takes on the characters they're writing about.
Unlike every other multi-part series I've ever read -- and there've been quite a few -- the Martin Beck books are not really multiple parts.
Not just characters on a page, but men whom Sjöwall and Wahlöö can bring into existence through sheer force of will.It's no wonder this series is seen as a seminal work of the genre.
The third book in the 10-book series has Beck and his colleagues chasing a horrible sexual predator. The characters, which were fully formed to begin with, undergo further development in each book and that's just one on the things that makes this series such good reading. I would not put this in the absolute top and I did give it 4 stars, but it should be noted that, fair or not, this is compared to the other books in the series and that sets a very high standard.
Two young girls are brutally raped and murdered.
The only witness is a three year old boy.
How will the police catch the killer before he kills again?This is a standard crime novel.
What sets it apart is the attention to detail and the immediacy of the action, and this in a mere 200 pages.
We get to see the slog as hundreds of leads come in - most being blind alleyways of course.
We see the toll the case takes on the policemen and their families.
We see the hunches and moments of intuition that assist in identifying the perpetrator.A good book - 4/5
May be three and half stars.The other day I had to undertake a three hour train journey and after a day I had to return back taking the same train.
So I had six hours of train journey.
To accompany me in my train journey, and as I did not want to exert much concentration, I chose a crime fiction.
Moreover it had been many days that I had read a crime thriller.I saw the book with one of friends.
I had completed almost the entire book on my journey.
Only the ending was not that great.
It ended with a dull thud.
Otherwise, it was a great entertainer.
Part three of The Story of a Crime sequence sees the series really take off.Martin Beck is back in Stockholm and has been promoted to Detective Inspector, a year after the events in The Man Who Went Up In Smoke and it is The Summer of Love as seen through the eyes of a tired and stressed Homicide Department.This time Beck and his colleagues are trying catch two criminals, a mugger and a murderer who preys on very young girls, violating and then killing them.
catching up on unreviewed books (from 2011)According to author Jo Nesbø, who wrote the introduction to this edition of the novel (third in the Martin Beck series), Man on the Balcony found its inspiration in an actual case that occurred in Stockholm in 1963.
Man on the Balcony imagines a similar case and its authors deliver it into the hands of Martin Beck and other detectives of the Stockholm police.
The action then switches to the police station, where Martin Beck and his colleagues are discussing the latest in a series of serious muggings that have been taking place in the city parks.
One of the aspects that I noted was how much more the general public felt able to hold the police to account in this novel along with a more permissive culture and sexual freedom not bringing positives for all sectors of society, most notably when Martin Beck is approached by a young girl offering to sell naked photographs of herself and he is only too well aware that someone will quite willingly take them off her hands.
Ten of these butts were already neatly lined up along the edge of the saucer on the little garden table.Unease, though, turns to horror as the man’s gaze fixates on a small girl who steps into the street from her apartment building and the scene is set for an unsettling and gripping thriller as the Stockholm police search for a killer who stalks and kills small children in the city's parks.The conventions of the police procedural, which Sjöwall and Wahlöö were defining, are married easily to detective and thriller conventions, but with no loss of any sense of realism or immediacy.
Sjowall & Wahloo come of age with this clever police procedural.
I really liked the sense of action but frustration of the police as they fail to find their man or build a picture of the assailant.
Some readers see Beck as the source behind Wallander and I'm sure that to an extent that is true: Henning Mankell freely admits that Maj and Per have had a remarkable influence on his own writing.
Jo Nesbo addresses this very question in his foreword:Maj Sjöwall and Per Wahlöö, beside writers such as Raymond Chandler, Dashiell Hammett, and Georges Simenon, have shaped the genre and the readers' expectations as to what crime fiction should be, the very starting point, ground zero, where all writers with the genre-defining label "crime novel" on the sleeve of their book begin communicating with the reader.
Social cohesion itself is in jeopardy as the number of victims increases.Computers are just now being introduced to police work in the 1960s.
Fredrik Melander, a colleague with a photographic memory, is described as a “living punch card machine.” However, computers can’t help here in any case because the murderer lacks a criminal record.
In this third work in a ten-part Martin Beck series, the authors are beginning to use the police procedural genre as a vehicle for social commentary and criticism.
So in love on how Beck always has this sort of an instinct that even the description given by the mugger making him curious cause it sounds freaking so familiar to him.
This crime was more to a guessing game rather than an investigation-- I totally forgot about that balcony dude until Beck realised how it was related.
This is very pleasing, loving this more that the first book from Martin Beck's series although the journey of the crime making me totally sad and angry but it was presented well, very humankind and satisfactorily good and informative.

Perchè martin Beck ed i suoi pards stavolta, nella Svezia socialissima e nei politicizzatissimi anni '60 hanno a che fare con qualcosa che meno sociale e meno politico non potrebbe essere: il killer psicopatico, il maniaco dell'alienazione mentale.L' obbligatorio cenno al fastidio che sempre e ovunque dà la figura del criminale alienato a chi porta avanti rivendicazioni sociali (come se il riferimento alla follia fosse sempre e comunque un tentativo di decolpevolizzare, soprattutto quando si parla di femminicidio) rende ancor più clamoroso il rovesciamento di punto di vista che Per Wahloo e Maj Sjowall fanno del comune punto di vista.
The killer will come from this new hated group.
Yes, the way the world is going is alarming, but it’s just another thing added to a long list for the cops to deal with as they try to get on with the gruesome tasks that make up their jobs.A serial killer is murdering little girls in Stockholm, and Martin Beck and co are in a frantic race to catch him.
As because it has that realism, because it has a sense of a genuine world and actual people, these killings aren’t just plot devices in a game, they really seem to mean something.
Stieg Larsson (The Girl With Dragon Tattoo trilogy) was inspired by Henning Mankell, who is nearly as famous as Larsson.
And Mankell was inspired by Maj Sjöwall and Per Wahlöö, or rather, Martin Beck, the detective they created.
And Sjöwall and Wahlöö were inspired by Simenon's Maigret...The books in this series were published in the 1960s-1970s, and now one would have to define these stories as vintage police procedurals.
If I run to any other Martin Beck mystery, I will read them too.
So finely controlled and plotted, and moves with such meticulous restraint that when the writers knowingly let loose a playful sentence, they get one of the biggest laughs in the history of crime fiction. I like it even more than "The man who went up in smoke" (https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...)But comparing one Martin Beck book to another is really, hard to avoid the cliche here, like comparing apples and oranges.
The third in this ten book series is said to be the breakthrough book, the one that put the books and authors on the map. “The Man on the Balcony” really is all that, too: tighter, more suspenseful, faster-paced, and (my little joke) Where books one and two had one depressed detective, now we have a group of them. They argue and are unpleasant to each other, but the crimes, the solid machinery of the police procedures, and, yes, the breakthrough moment of intuition by the featured character - all these things keep the pages flying by.
Another book in the Swedish series starring Martin Beck.
The central mystery was tough to read about because it involved the murder and rape of children.
The synopsis said "young girls".
In my head, I thought that meant late teens or early twenties.
In the story, though, it was children.
There was a huge build-up to the capture of the killer that kept me on pins and needles.
However, when he was actually captured, I couldn't help but say, "Really?!" Very anti-climactic.
But, I guess that in itself could add to the realism of the story.
This specialness had put me off reading this book – the first two in the series were so good I was afraid they couldn’t keep up the pace.
The killer doesn’t is going to kill and if the kids are kept away from the parks he’ll take them from your yards.There are a lot of other nice touches in this book.
The influence of drugs on the youth – while Beck is searching for a man who sexually assaults children, a girl in her late teens offers to sell him photographs of herself naked.
Pictures of a waning society.If you haven’t read the Martin Beck books yet – start today.
An elderly woman phones the police to complaining about a "nasty" man who stands on his own balcony for hours at a time--just staring at the traffic and the children at play in the streets below.
But will they tell the police enough to lead them to the killer?This was a really difficult read for me.
I have a very difficult time reading stories that involve children being murdered, abused, or harmed in any way.
It also helps that Sjöwalll and Wahlöö write such a good police procedural.
Οι κάτοικοι φοβούνται να βγάλουν έξω τα παιδιά τους...Η αλήθεια είναι ότι δεν υπάρχουν και πολλές εκπλήξεις ή ανατροπές στην πλοκή, όπως στα δυο προηγούμενα βιβλία.
Το βιβλίο είναι πολύ καλό, γιατί σκιαγραφείται στην εντέλεια η όλη αστυνομική διαδικασία για την σύλληψη ενός εγκληματία, βλέπουμε τις κινήσεις των αστυνομικών, τις σκέψεις τους, καθώς και πως επηρεάζονται από τα άγρια εγκλήματα.
Προσωπικά τα βιβλία των Σγιεβάλ/Βαλέε τα διαβάζω όχι τόσο για την αστυνομική πλοκή τους (που εγγυημένα θα είναι τουλάχιστον ικανοποιητική), όσο γιατί μου δίνουν την ευκαιρία να "ταξιδέψω" στην Σουηδία πολλά χρόνια πίσω και να δω τις κοινωνικές συνθήκες που επικρατούσαν, αλλά και τον κόσμο του εγκλήματος.
This is the second in a series of ten books which are generally agreed - by those who have written them - to be have inspired of the current wave of Scandinavian crime novels.No heroics; a lot of very dry humour; a fair amount of squalor; remarkable detailed descriptions of people's looks and mannerisms quite reminiscent of writers like Tolstoy.
Inspired by the Ed McBain books, apparently.
Excellent.What is quite astonishing is that they are set in the mid '60s but you are hardly aware that this is nearly half a century ago.
The Man on the Balcony is the third instalment of the Martin Beck series of police procedurals written by the husband and wife team of Sjowall and Wahloo between 1965-75.
There’s little machismo, no maverick geniuses and little in the way of heroics - just the police getting on and doing their jobs.
In this book, Sjowall and Wahloo start to broaden out the focus from Beck to introduce more of the team and the characterisation is keenly observed.
The plot is fairly standard police procedural fare and hinges on a couple of coincidences, but what makes the story work is the realism and its telling.
Martin Beck investigates a deeply disturbing case of 3 young girls found murdered in the parks of Stockholm.
A spate of muggings is also taking place in the city and this time, the police conclude that the perpertrator must be the only person to have seen the child killer while lurking in the park bushes.
Nothing is known of the killer until Martin remembers something by chance from a former inquiry.
The case suddenly begins to unravel, and the police are sent on an extensive search of the environs of Stockholm.
Based on an actual case in the 1960's, this Martin Beck novel will leave chills down your spine.
Policial sueco de investigación, muchos años antes del descubrimiento del adn, de la invención de las computadoras y la telefonía móvil.
Con paciencia Martin Beck y otros policías desentrañan el caso.
Y con un poco de suerte.
No hay inteligencias iluminadas ni hombres de acero; casi no hay violencia.
Pero tiene su encanto esta serie: quizás en la poca vida que tiene Beck, o en la violencia que transmite Gunvald Larsson.
Además hay un momento clave, en clave de humor: (view spoiler)[cuando detienen a un sospechoso que resulta ser un aficionado a la poesía, de profesión carnicero.
Genial.
(hide spoiler)]
I usually avoid any book that deals with crimes against children, but this one was so well written, and I like this series so much, I took the chance. It was definitely worth it! I just skipped over the crime's details to save my sanity, and still really enjoyed this book. They remind me of the Maigret books - just love them!
From BBC Radio 4 - Saturday Drama:Someone is assaulting and killing young girls in the parks of Stockholm. With only a brutal mugger and a three year-old boy for witnesses, the investigation is stalling. It's only a tiny detail surfacing in Beck's mind that puts the murder squad on the trail of the killer, but will they get him before he strikes again?
subject matter was a little disturbing, but this short novel (by todays standards anyway) delivered the seemingly continuous doses of Nordic crime drama I crave. Number 3 in the Martin Beck series and I plan to read them all
For reasons I can and cannot spoil.I’m not a big fan of police procedurals.
In real life, detective work doesn’t get solved by a Sherlock Holmes-type using inductive reasoning until the killer is revealed by sheer cleverness.
Martin Beck, the lead in the first two books and certainly not a detective of the Holmes/Poirot variety, is a supporting character.
There is no lead except for the handful of detectives trying to figure this out, as well as the citizens of Stockholm either assisting or interfering, sometimes in hilarious ways.
It felt like a deconstruction of the police procedural.
