https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30264.Dead_Witch_Walking
Male Bat Bugs seem to have decided one day to pass over the perfectly good female genitalia in order to stab the females in the gut with their bug-wangs.
Nobody knows why these bugs are so damn sadistic.The male African Bat Bug would really like to stab her in the gut.
Once again, perfectly good vagina, and Harrison stabs us in the gut.So whilst I didn't think this book was quite as horrible as many other people seem to feel it was, I also can't say that I loved it or was particularly fond of it.
One result is that non-humans, immune to the created virus, have become the dominant culture, witches, werewolves, vampires, the usual gang of idiots.
The main character here is Rachel, a witch who is contracted with the security organization responsible for policing the magical population.
Her true desire is to take down the big crime boss in town.
The book aspires to create an entire reality, and does as good a job as one might expect.
There is enough suspense to sustain interest and enough charm and warmth to allow one to feel for Rachel and some others.
It was actually my first time, as I remember, reading an UF book that slow.
BUT, it’s the only time I did lose interest, because I just couldn’t before with the world building being so amazing.
I don’t find anything interesting in reading a book with a person transforming herself into an animal.
I heard though that this book is actually not the best in the series so I look very forward to seeing how it’ll go and especially some development (please) in Rachel’s character.
I can't resist their cute little faces.I know this one doesn't go THAT well, but gosh-darn-it-all, it made me laugh.Rachel, our heroine, meets up with Mr. Baddie, Trent, and he almost kills her and greatly injures her, cages her and allows his assistant to physically abuse her for sadistic pleasure, threatens her, and then tries to have her die by rats, but she is ogling his ass the whole time.
And, I'm like "Oh HELL to the NO!!" This is such a set-up for him to be a future love-interest!Now, I admit that bad boys can be pretty cute and irresistible.....Who's a cute little bad boy?
Reformed bad boys are also good.
2/7/18 - ON SALE for $2.99: http://amzn.to/2fZD4j8Reviewed by: Rabid ReadsThe Hollows is another one of the first Urban Fantasy series I ever read. The bug had gotten me, but I was still new enough to not really know what was available. I think I was just pursuing every lead Amazon gave me, and that was back in the 3-for-4 paperbacks days, so I was in the habit of ordering the first four books in any newly discovered series.Which was a good plan, b/c by the time I finished Dead Witch Walking, I
I think I was just pursuing every lead Amazon gave me, and that was back in the 3-for-4 paperbacks days, so I was in the habit of ordering the first four books in any newly discovered series.Which was a good plan, b/c by the time I finished Dead Witch Walking, I was well and truly hooked, and if I had days to wait before I could start the next book, I might have cried.Rachel Morgan (a witch) lives in one of my favorite UF worlds---the creatures-out-of-the-closet world.The first time I encountered this kind of world, I didn't know what to do with it---it was too foreign a concept for me to unquestioningly swallow.
Possibly even a twisted romance novel, but believe me it's not.It takes place in a world where instead of going to the moon, money went into bioengineering.
Like a plague it started wiping out humans, Inlanders however (people and beings with mystical abilities, witches, weres, pixies etc.) were immune.
It's not long before Rachel Morgan has more on her ass than a bunch of angry and magical assassins.I will grant that the first 20 pages or so of this book are a little bit cheesy.
4. Sometimes the character of Rachel bothers me a bit.
Buddy read with the MacHalo group in June 2016.Ooops, I'm going to bail on this one, sorry guys.
Urban fantasy is just not doing it for me these days, and since I've already read this series and it'd be a re-read anyway, I don't feel too bad.
if you like urban fantasies, this is hands down one of the best series in the genre, overall.
I know that can be annoying, but with this series, I think my favorite book was either book 8 or 9 (Pale Demon).
Some of the best world-building I've ever read.
Wonderful series, though.
"Book, you have the right to a speedy trial" review THE DEFENSE  - Lead heroine is funny and engaging, yet also flawed enough to feel real - I felt I could relate whenever Rachel Morgan did something stupid...plus when book characters screw up, it makes me feel not as bad for doing at least 8,000 stupid things a day! (That's an exaggeration, of course! I only do 7,999 stupid things a day tops!) - I also loved the supporting cast - Ivy the vampire is moody yet oh-so-adorable, Keasley never loses
- Lead heroine is funny and engaging, yet also flawed enough to feel real - I felt I could relate whenever Rachel Morgan did something stupid...plus when book characters screw up, it makes me feel not as bad for doing at least 8,000 stupid things a day!
- Main story is severely lacking - Rachel leaves her job and now her former bosses are trying to kill her...annnnnnnd that's pretty much it for the first 200 pages!
Hated, hated, hated this book. Rachel Morgan got on my last nerve, and by the end, I was ready for her to get killed. However, her partners Jinx and Ivy were loads of fun.
It is an excellent opening book of the series: it is intriguing with the right balance of action, mystery, and humor.The main character, Rachel Morgan, a witch, works as a runner at “Inderland Security”, but now quits her job to start her own business partnering with a vampire and a pixy.The story is about her struggle as she tries to get rid of the bounty was put on her head by her ex-boss, and gain her independence.
The story is full of thrilling action, magic, and enough questions left open that make me want to read the further books of the adventures of Rachel Morgan.
Just as an illustration, here are some examples just from one page of the book:Face cold, I nodded, and she released me.Impressed anew by her crucifix, I set aside my dinner and scooted forward.Frightened, I flicked my gaze from her to the cross.Swallowing hard, I scooted back into my chair.Moving with a provocative slowness, Ivy took her cross off.You see what I am talking about?If the writing were a little better polished, some unnecessary descriptions and thoughts were removed from the narration, the characters made a bit more sense (I often couldn't understand why people did what they did in this book - why was Rachel sooo freaked out by Ivy, why her ex-boss wanted to kill her so badly, etc.), the novel would have been much more enjoyable and dynamic IMO.
Am I wrong?Dead Witch Walking is basically a book whose popular appeal I can sort of understand (like I understand Magic Bites's popularity) but that doesn't appeal to me personally.
I won't list the points where I almost quit, or the place I finally hit the wall, yelled that's enough and put it straight into the back to the library stack, not until we get below a spoiler warning.The bottom line is the plot sounded fair to good, a bounty hunting witch who gets on the bad side of her own former agency and has a price placed on her head.
The book tried several times to pick up it's story line and move along, but it kept bogging down in exploration of Rachel's life.
I really enjoyed the world created by the author and I liked the comic touches in places.
For more than half the book, I was finding it all very entertaining and pretty fast paced.
But. I felt the book went on too long and I was starting to wonder if this Rachel was just annoying for making so many bad decisions...I liked the Trent character and hope to see more of him.
Apparently the second in the series is better so I will definitely read it as this was t bad.
I would hope to see Rachel developing as the series progresses.
I liked this series a lot but around book 4 it petered off for me. I need to get back on the horse.
Rachel Morgan lives in Cincinnati.
Not the Cincinnati that you and I might be familiar with but a post-apocalyptic town that has ripped the curtains from the fact that there is a shadow world of all those creatures from pixies to vampires that have lived among humans for millennia.
We suffered in the Depression, and we waited like everyone else to find out who shot JR."Yes, because there are still humans, there is a police force to make sure rules are obeyed, Federal Inderland Bureau.
Rachel, though a witch, isn’t all that competent and her decision-making (whether about pursuing crime or sexually-attractive potential partners) is somewhat lacking.
I am a character-driven reader.
I don't necessarily have to love a character to bits, but if I can get behind him/her, then I will come along for the ride, and be willing to overlook a lot of things, like faulty plotting.
If I don't like the character, well, then I enjoy the book less, and become somewhat cranky.
I am not a plot-driven reader, but sometimes, really good storytelling will keep me interested even when I dislike the characters.
I might try other books Kim Harrison has written, but probably later.
I wonder if I will learn more about that as I read future books in the series.
He was intriguing because he was a bit of a puzzle and Rachel had a love/hate thing going on with him during the novel.
I like complicated characters in my books.I listened to parts of this book in audiobook form and read sections of it on my free kindle download as well.
I felt there could have been more of both in the story, but I definitely see hints of good action and sexual tension to come in the series.
OK so the most telling thing for me about this book is that it took me OVER A WEEK to read it.
Things picked up once Rachel turned into a mink, but that happens halfway through.
Maybe in a few months I'll feel differently.UPDATE JULY 2017: I feel like I should add an addendum to this review...
even though I didn't love book 1, as it turns out, I did read and love the rest of the series.
So, it's probably worth reading beyond this first book even if (like me) you didn't enjoy this one all that much.
On a scale of 1 to done I'm:  Me trying to get a grasp on this book:  Me every time Rachel opened her mouth:   . . . so yeah, I could go on but I think you get the point. There was so much potential it  hurt . But by the end I was doing some heavy skimming and only went on because I was close to finishing anyways. I just really couldn't get into this one :( This book just wasn't for me, sadly.
Oh and much much more, I won't even delve into the kinds.Rachel Morgan is part of an organization that is responsible for handling rogue supernatural creatures.
Inderlander are called those with special abilities & generally every kind of creatures is part of the supernatural world.
Until one day her boss decides to fire her and since Rachel and Ivy, a hot, tempered living vampire made a pact to leave the IS together, her boss puts a price on her head for taking Ivy with her.
In Rachel's team there's also Jenks, a pixy who's snarky and about all kinds of awesome.
Rachel is still dumb, but at least I like all the other characters, or at least I find them interesting enough to keep me going!08/07/01 This book is lame, there is no other way how to say it.
Rachel Morgan, the main heroine, is a little miss know-it-all and at the same time she is embarrassingly stupid.
She considers herself a good runner (a sort of special agent or bounty hunter) but she doesn't know that fairies can enter holy ground.
She refuses to make any sort of plans but she gets caught twice while breaking and entering and overall, the whole mink fiasco is just painful to read about.
It did take me some time to get used to Ivy’s voice (I still don’t like it very much) but Gavin does a great job with the other characters, especially Jenks.
Still, what makes this book a great read is the cast of characters.
The first time I read Dead Witch Walking I thought Rachel was uninteresting and incompetent.
Well it looks like Gavin really did wonders for this book because I really like her now :) I like Ivy as she adds some tension to the story and I just LOVE Jenks.
At the end it got way better, but still not as good as some books I gave 4 stars in UF.
And the fact that it has no romance at all was something that bothered me.
It's not only that it has no romance, she doesn't even get interested in someone.I was expecting much more form this book as everybody was talking about this series, I mean it was a good read, and reading about witches is something new for me.
Zabavno, uzbudljivo, na momente i vrcavo...Mnogo bolje od True Blood serijala, a Rejčel Morgan je svakako dopadljivija i duhovitija od Suki Stekhaus. A i bolja je ženska ;)Uživancija :)
The characters are intriguing and show promise, there are plenty of hints of things to come without really giving anything major away and the world was interesting enough that I might want to visit it multiple times.
So as a first book goes it totally hit the mark.Rachel got herself into plenty of sticky situations this book that can play out a variety of ways in the books to come.
And finally it seems that if any situation can go wrong it will and she has made some pretty dangerous bargains with some pretty shady characters.Rachel seems like a heroine I can read about and maybe only get slightly annoyed when she does stupid stuff.
I was given this book as a gift. The Hollows book #1 First, the back blurb: “All the creatures of the night gather in 'the Hollows' of Cincinnati, to hide, to prowl, to party...and to feed. Vampires rule the darkness in a predator-eat-predator world rife with dangers beyond imagining—and it's Rachel Morgan's job to keep that world civilized. A bounty hunter and witch with serious sex appeal and an attitude, she'll bring 'em back alive, dead...or undead.” It's been a while since I've read a back
Readers should get used it this inconsistent way of storytelling because the book constantly goes back and forth between trying to convince us that Rachel is one of the best at her job, then showing her make loads of really poor decisions.
Rachel is Ivy's roommate and trying to find a way for their scents to never mingle, to never talk to her about her family or other vampires (although Rachel, super agent that she is, seems to know next to nothing about them when they're around) seems like expecting a woman to maim herself to prevent people on the street from finding her attractive.
I found it well-crafted, with a thumping fast adventure pace, well-placed mysteries, mis-directions and clues, and rare resorts to info-dumping to make the world come alive.The heroine is credible, far from omni-competent or a Mary Sue, as befits a young woman just striking out on her own professionally.
She reminds me a bit of David Weber's Honor Harrington (though *much* less Mary Sue-ish) in that her primary virtue is the engendering of loyalty - and yes, her supporting cast does outshine her.
I see that as a strength, not a flaw, in series novels - but I like ensemble casts in books, TV and comics.
Renewed determination to attempt this series again I decided to refresh my knowledge of the characters and story by giving it the old re-read.
Which I missed during my first read but I would love this relationship to become true, but in my mind I feel as if Nick and/or (the villain) Trent are the two boys Rachel will eventually be with.
Read this book if you love Urban Fantasy with a kick-ass cast of characters except Trent.
The novel was amazing and it's a series of 12 so I'm so excited that I can read about these characters for such a long time!
genetically modified tomatoes★★★★✩ (This is a review of the audiobook.) I truly enjoyed Marguerite Gavin’s narration of this first in The Hollows series, giving the first-person narrative for witch Rachel Morgan - who is a bounty hunter come private detective - great inflection, tone, and pacing.
And I’m definitely continuing the series!I just loved this book!
So many neat characters made it hard to pick a favorite.
Great supporting characters, too.Favorite Quote: “He bit you on the neck?
She won’t let me bite her on the neck.” I do like the rare glimpse we get of Ivy’s dry humor.(view spoiler)[I do worry about Rachel, though.
However, even though the story takes a bit to get started, once it does it is hard to put the book down.
I have also heard that the rest of the series is amazing and this is just one of those books you have to get through to get to the good stuff.Don't let the slow beginning and lack of hottie love interests deter you form giving this series a try.
I will definitely be giving the rest of the Hollows series a try.
