https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1542063.Sherston_s_Progress
I read War and Peace of an evening; a grand and consoling book---a huge panorama of life and suffering humankind which makes the present troubles easier to endure and the loneliness of death a little thing.
This is the third volume in the Siegfried Sassoon trilogy, and we find George Sherston, our uncertain hero, convalescing at a mental hospital in Edinburgh.
He protested the war in volume two and the military can not make this problem go away by simply accusing him of cowardice because George is a legitimate war hero.
I’ve hung around with Sherston/Sassoon for three books now so I know what is going on with his mind.
It takes the reader from Sassoon’s admission to Craiglockhart for shell shock to the end of the war.
After Craiglockhart Sassoon spends some time recuperating in Ireland before being posted to Palestine.
His war ends in July 1918 when he is shot in the head returning from patrol by an overzealous member of his own side.I felt that this was somewhat weaker than the other two parts of the trilogy.
The war has taken over Sassoon and he can conceive of doing nothing else.
Thus Sherston continues to be aware of the continual failings of the war machine at the same time that he voluntarily returns to it.
The War is not only wiping out a generation, but leaving survivors who are the victims of shell-shock and alcoholism.As with all of the other volumes in this series of memoirs, _Sherston’s Progess_ ends rather abruptly, though it does come full circle to the beginning of the volume: hit by friendly fire Sherston is sent back home for the last time, there to once again meet up with Dr. Rivers.
The final book in the George Sherston trilogy, which had been on my TBR list for ages.The first two books of Sassoon’s “fictionalised autobiography” were published in 1928 and 1930, but he waited another 6 years before releasing “Sherston’s Progress” and it does have something of the feel of an afterthought.
Eventually, in February 1918, he is posted to the Palestine theatre of operations, which we read about in the form of his reproduced diary from the period, again adding to the feeling that this book is rather cobbled together.
This is the shortest of the three books, but is the one with the most action in it.This covers the period almost to the end of the war (July 1918) and deals with Sherston going to the mental hospital and meeting Rivers, his return to the War, travelling to Palestine & then the Western Front again and getting wounded for the 3rd time.There are moments of wonderful humour such as The Mister, the gentleman he meets in Limerick and goes hunting with.
The final volume of Sassoon's trilogy finds Sherston, rather than being court-martialed, sent to a mental hospital where he finds a sympathizing ear in Dr. Rivers.
Gradually he works his way through his anti-war feelings, though he does not abandon them, to the point that he requests a return to the front.
He is sent to Egypt and from there back to France where he leads a unit until he is wounded by friendly fire and returns to England.
For those wanting to understand the effect of WWI on the individuals caught up in its destruction, Sassoon's trilogy is highly recommended.
Last book of Sassoon's trilogy, including the episode at Craiglockhart, subject of Pat barker's wonderful book Regeneration. Without details of the horror of the war itself Sassoon confronts us with that aspect all the time, the casual at random telling of what happens with the characters (usually death) is shocking. The psychological analyze of the protagonist is very convincing. The end of the book, actually the last page gives us a little hope.
The end of the trilogy (although Goodreads, for some reason, doesn't show #2 on my "read" list.
Takeaways: • Sassoon is unmatched at describing a place and atmosphere in efficient prose.
• The war was a devastating slaughter.
• In writing memoir, it's OK to make some things up, just to fill in the blanks.
(There's no other explanation for Sassoon's astonishing memory of events that happened years previous to the writing.)If you haven't read Sassoon, the poems are the easiest and quickest entry point.
The first book of the trilogy is somewhat trying, but necessary to make sense of the whole experience.
I lost my zeal for reading for three weeks and this book brought me back to the printed page. Sassoon's personality is expressed very well by his writing. Reading this book is like reading a letter from a friend. His observations while hospitalized, golfing, fox hunting, drinking, reading, and touring Israel are all entertaining. This book will make you want to read another by Sassoon.
The slightest of the George Sherston books, I thought, but still very good and worth reading for completeness's sake.
Guiding the poet's steps through hell, the gentle Rivers
Third book in the trilogy, all very good.
Three stars. This excellent volume is the third of three in Siegfried Sassoon's semi-autobiographical WWI trilogy The Complete Memoirs of George Sherston:  Memoirs of a Fox-Hunting Man ,  Memoirs of an Infantry Officer , and  Sherston's Progress . It was published six years after its predecessor and I think the nature of the storytelling has changed. Its authenticity makes it worth reading, but some of the spark present in the previous volumes is missing in places. So, three stars.Volume three t
This excellent volume is the third of three in Siegfried Sassoon's semi-autobiographical WWI trilogy The Complete Memoirs of George Sherston: 
Memoirs of an Infantry Officer
So, three stars.Volume three takes Sherston back to active duty after being hospitalized for battle wounds and then ostensibly hospitalized for shell shock; we know from the previous volume that his later hospitalization was to rehabilitate his perspective on the war—to attenuate his anti-war sentiments.
Sassoon's depiction of army life is a principal theme in this volume: its mundanity interspersed with combat, the soldiers' resignation to their fate, and Sherston's concern for the soldiers under his command.See 
This is the 3rd of a trilogy of novels he wrote about his experiences before and during the war.
After "recovering" from shell-shock (as people then called PTSD), Sherston returns to service, seemingly happier to be in the War than having to think about the War. It does seem like a joke played on his generation, and there is a mordant punch-line delivered in this bookSassoon's novels can stand along Robert Graves' autobiography (Goodbye, to All That) as a document about the surreal atrocities that let World War 1 happen and continue.
Psychotherapy started in Great Britain as a result of the 'Shell Shock' that many soldiers suffered in the First World War. The pioneer was WHR Rivers and Sassoon was his most famous patient (and gives him the compliment of using his real name in the third and final part of his fictionalised war diaries).
So it is fascinating to read this account and find that Rivers is almost the hero of this story featuring Sassoon's war service in Palestine and France.
(Sadly, I started in the middle and I'm now going back to Sassoon's childhood and life before / early experiences in the Great War)
His was the Great War and mine was Viet Nam. I envy him his naïveté.
I was too canny for Nam and refused to go fly airplanes there, to the chagrin of my US Air Force colonel father.I found out recently that Sassoon gave Dadd's painting, The Fairy Feller's Master Stroke, to the Tate in memory of Julian Dadd, a fellow officer and great-nephew of the artist.
I haven't found out how Sassoon came by it, but I'm working on it.Progress and Robert Graves' Goodbye to All That tell you all you need to know about the Great War, or any war.
Hadn't known what to expect from this book - I bought it because I liked the illustrations and it sounded vaguely interesting. It was very interesting in the end, and written in the kind of semi-poetic style that normally appeals to me. I think it deserves to be more well-known than it is.
I loved these books about Sassoon, through his alter ego, George Sherston, journey through the war. His problems of conscience, his meeting with Dr.Rivers, all of it. If you enjoyed Pat Barker's trilogy, yo will love this, pretty much it's nucleus.
The final instalment of Sassoon's WW1 trilogy, following on from Memoirs of a Fox-hunting Man and Memoirs of an Infantry Officer.
Some really pleasant writing in this third volume of Sassoon trilogy, especially of Sherston's time in Ireland. How could one not have a pleasant time in the Ireland country hunting fox.
Not sure it would work as a standalone book without reading either of the 'memoirs'Would loved to have been at the dinner party with The Mister & co, I'd have been giggling with Siefried! So funny
Mentioned in a war of nerves Bunsen shepherd
Very good indeed. Some lovely quotations. Not all related to the great War but still. I think this is the best part of the trilogy.
One of those subtle, and subtly engaging, English novels.
third part of Sassoon's fictionalized memoirs
