https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22867.A_Man_Rides_Through
This is written in 3rd person.In short..The first book for the most part is all character, plot and world building and this book is where all the action is.We leave off at the end of book one on a cliffhanger where Geradan goes through the mirror to escape the Castellan after Nyle's "murder" and jump into this one with an assault on Mordant by Prince Kragaen.
Everything is so complex and layered it would take pages to summarize.So I'll just say this..READ THIS SERIES!!This is definitely one of my top 5 favorite books of all time.
Terisa originally falls for the bad guy Eremis, but doesn't have sex with him.
He writes their love scenes differently than the other sex scenes in the book, showing the difference between true love and exploitation, between true love and merely "scratching an itch." And Geraden and Terisa's talents and self-confidence seem to grow exponentially as their love for each other grows.
In other words, Terisa and Geraden actually earn their happy ending, and it wasn't through forty mind-numbing pages trying to be the trial in The Merchant of Venice.
I don't think he could create a cardboard female character if he tried.Donaldson's prose is more spare than in the Thomas Covenant books, so if you tried to read those and gave up, give these a try.
Read A Man Rides Through ages ago, back when I was still in high school and I loved it.
I received it as a Christmas present from one of my closest friends.
I ended up donating both books to a local high school library.
I was so happy I bought them immediately.
I was a little afraid that I would no longer enjoy the series, but I was sucked in almost immediately.
Both books still spoke to me--so much so that I read them both in one weekend, much to my husband's chagrin.
King Joyse tried to make Imagery a force for good in the world, but a few power-hungry Imagers have now allied with Mordant's normal human enemies in an attempt to conquer them once and for all.At the center of all these machinations is a young woman named Terisa.
Coming with Geraden to Mordant gave her a new lease on life, but for most of The Mirror of Her Dreams, she was still a very passive character, who kind of allows things to happen around her without taking action.
About a lonely girl, who feels incredibly insignificant because of her cold parents, she becomes lost in starring at the mirrors that are the only decoration in her apartment.
She feels that if she looks at the mirrors that is proof that she exists.
She is mistaken to be a "Champion" that is summoned by the congerers to save their world.
She has no faith in herself, but through the telling of her story she gains strength in herself, and in doing becomes the "Champion" that the Congerers were looking for.
She overcomes her feeling that she is invisible or insignificant.
The Mordant's Need books still rank among my favorite fantasy books of all time. The plot is complex, the characters vivid and the story is neatly contained within two volumes. Donaldson seems to love creating the anti-hero - and Teresa Mogan is, to me, a more compelling one than his Thomas Covenant. I warn everyone who reads this for the first time to not let themselves get near the end of the first volume without having the second volume nearby.
Duology with "Mirror of Her Dreams." I love this duology. In fact, I'd like to read it again.
But then again I don't ever recall being really impressed or find any parts remarkable either.The characters in this series will make reading this book feel like you are wielding a double edged blade without a hilt that you have to hold in your bare hands.It's nice to read a fantasy story where the characters are not flawless, archetypes.
Terisa and Geradan the main protagonists are just not as extreme, and because of this (being normal people in an abnormal situation) the story is far more human and engaging.The world of Mordant, Cadwal and Alend could be considered to be a quite stereotypical fantasy setting, but what Donaldson chooses to do with the setting is quite unusual.
This is good, well written engaging fantasy and I thoroughly enjoyed my rereading of it.This second book in the series is even better than the first with motivations becoming clear, villains being unmasked and plenty of action.
Very very enjoyable books to read... but spoiled by inappropriate scenes
The story of Terisa, a woman from our world shunted into the midst of a fantastic conflict in another realm, and Geraden, the bumbling but good-hearted young man responsible for her arrival, reveals itself to be a story about coming into one's potential and having the courage to use it for good and not ill.The weaknesses of the previous volume are still evident here, most notably the near incomprehensibility of the magic system of Imagery--the translation of beings between worlds through the medium of mirrors--and Donaldson's strenuous efforts to convey it in writing.
A much faster pace than the first book.
While still an epic fantasy with a lot of intrigue, this book is the one that finally has battles, struggle, and the heroes secret skills coming to the forefront.Terisa and Geraden finally get together (sorry kids, no sex scenes) although their relationship feels a little too easy for everything happening.
Donaldson, nevertheless, is able to create entertaining and distinctive characters both female and male.
Are there better series out there?
Sure.
If you want something less than 2k pages in total and enjoy epic fantasy, this can be a fun read.
Donaldson's writings are a mass of contradictions; characters you hate, but care about, descriptions and explanations that go on and on but fail to bore you...
By the end, you just want to scream in frustration over all the fumbling and stupidity you've had to suffer thru, only to see the hero finally become a hero in a very small & simple way.
I'm amazed by how much I cared about Mordant and all these characters by the end of the story, even though I still didn't really like Terisa or Geraden.
He's absolutely amazing!
I am a fan of Donaldson’s writing; I’ve read the first Chronicles of Thomas Covenant three or four times through, and I’ve read the entire series--all ten books--through once.
Maybe there’s a meta-narrative theme there; I don’t care What it boils down to is King Joyse having an unbelivably, incredously obstuse plan to out-siege his secret enemies and leaving everything up to chance and uncertain prophecy, while everyone else agonizes about why the king is mad and not helping, and eventually what to do when he goes missing for a while.In 600 pages, there is maybe 200 pages of plot: Terisa is jailed, Terisa escapes, some people die, Terisa meets the Domne’s family at Houseldon and tours the Cares of Mordant, eventually makes her way back to Orison Castle, is re-seiged, captured, freed/escapes, goes to war, visits her own world real quick, then beats the bad guy.
Excellent end to this two book series. Terisa begins to conquer the magic of Imagery as the kingdom crumbles. She and friends must get allies for the King, which includes a displaced space marine, before a huge battle of the various factions settles everything. Superb premise, great characters, tons of action and magic and a giant slug beast. Loved this - must look out for more from this author.
I loved the tension between romance and desparation. The author held a fine line between these two emotions -- something often missing in his Thomas Covenant Chronicles.
I was so glad I had this already in my library when I finished The Mirror of Her Dreams.
This book flew along as there was not the need to create the world and people as there was in the first book.
Yes, I did follow Terisa's growth the most, but I also watched King Joyse and began to understand his path as Terisa and Geraden did.
To begin with, this is not a standalone book; you must read The Mirror of Her Dreams first.
But if you enjoy well-written fantasy, a touch of intrigue, and good people holding back the dark, then you would enjoy this series.

The second pair of fantasy books I read following the Thomas Covenant Trilogy also by Stephen Donaldson.I preferred them to the TC Trilogy, in fact. Imaginative transfer of a modern woman into this fantasy world. Also my first introduction to the potentially magical properties of mirrors between worlds!OK, it’s pre reality fantasy of the GRRM era, so the goodies are pretty nice and the baddie pretty evil, with not a lot of nuance. But it’s a cracking, paced story with an imaginative plot. Maybe in the modern era more a younger adults storyline....
I needed to finish it to know what I had gotten myself into. I will not be reading this series again. Loved the concept of imagery. King Joyse’s character left me with some interesting thoughts as I considered him as the pseudo-Christ figure Donaldson presents him as.But I just struggled to buy the characters, Terisa most of all. I wonder if only men read Donaldson’s books...A very skillful writer, but not the best series in the world. It was solidly “okay,” but no more.
This is my third reading of the series and it has lost none of its appeal for me. I did find that in this reading I still loved Terisa, Geraden, Artagel, Myste, the Tor, and the Castellan as much as ever, But I found myself far less forgiving of King Joyce and his policy than in past readings. Great fairy tale/ fantasy read. I will certainly return for a 4th re-read in the future. Well worth it.
Man, Donaldson knows how to write, as well as tell a story. So good. Havelock was the shining star in this story. Such a good character. The magic system was fleshed out well and made the whole thing that much better! It is easy to draw parallels to his Covenant saga--and if you like them, you will like this. This was a Fantasy/Mystery series, and it was really well done. Read it!
Re-read. When everything that you do is wrong - but everything works out in the end - were you really wrong? Don't like how Teresa doesn't really grow as a character, she remains passive and naive throughout the story. The characters them selves are oversimplified stereotypes. But I love the story anyways.
The only reason I read this was because I read the first book and it ended mid story. Even though I didn't like it, it was so long and so painful to finish that I didn't want it to be for naught. This one was even worse, in my opinion. It got more and more far fetched and dramatic and I lost all connection to any of the characters and activities.
Originally read this series in high school. I liked them a lot more then. This book dragged and I had a difficult time finishing it before it was due back at the library. Some decent action near the end.
I read this book a long, long time ago - I think 1987, flying from New Zealand back to Perth. I can remember not being able to put it down so stayed awake the whole night reading! I know it is #2 in the Mordant's Need series but can't remember the other two books.
Great read.
There were some things in the book that kept me from enjoying it fully as a whole but overall I liked it.
1.5/5 stars
My love for this series continued with the sequel. For my book review: https://www.mybookabyss.com
