https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/160588.The_Abortion
This was a very real and passionate undertaking - after his death this collection (known now as The Brautigan Library) was moved to Washington State University in Vancouver, Washington.
This is the type of story that I love, a commitment to the written word for its own sake, not for the sake of commercial viability.The Abortion is a fictional telling of this true story.
The protagonist is the sole librarian of a place dedicated in fiction to what Brautigan would do in real life.
It is a wonderful love story - love of the written word and between two people trying to make sense of this world - and it is filled with Brautigan's poetic writing.
She moves in, gets pregnant, and the two take a leisurely trek down to TJ to get an abortion.
What a fantasy, huh?Even when dealing with a subject as fraught as abortion, the novel maintains its innocence and optimism.
More than anything, the novel is a treatise on a state of mind, a kind of carefree naivety.
Brautigan wrote The Abortion: An Historical Romance 1966 in 1974, and it seems to be an ode to something that by that time was already slipping away.
Was there ever really a time and place that was so free and innocent?
It pretty much breaks my heart to knock this book down from five stars to four, but that's the chance you take when you re-read something that you loved many years ago. The book is still great, of course, with an outstandingly original premise (a library for books people write one copy of, that will never ever get published, let alone read by anyone else), and the characters are super... But it just wasn't as knock-out fantastic this time as it was when I was nineteen.
This is why most of us gen-X-ers are shocked and dismayed by the contemporary so-called pro-life movement: ss the first generation to be raised in a United States in which abortion was legal, we accepted it as a great improvement over the horrors of the period in which it was illegal.
And this novel reminded me why, depicts a real non-propagandistic actual experience of abortion in 1966.
For example, while reading this book my bus pulls into the Fresno greyhound depot right as the hero flies over Fresno and looks down from his plane window.
*spoiler (doesn't matter)His style is so strange I think that many people don't take him seriously even if they love his books.
I'm still thinking of ways to interpret the surreal plot.
The hero lives in a womb-like library unlike any other which he hasn't left for years.
Has he aborted his dream life in the library or has the girl given birth to him by dragging him away from his womb?
I guess, after a half century on this planet, it's about time that I would get around to reading something by Brautigan.
Not really sure what the message is, or if there really is a message behind it.Simply, it's about a librarian working in a library of "unwanted" books written by anyone with the desire to create such a thing.
One day a girl shows up at the library with about about her book about hating her own body.
So you have a novel about nothing, where there exists a place for books that will never be read and two lovers who share a relationship of uncertain prospects.
I hadn't read this in about twenty years, I'm guessing, and I wondered how it would hold up.
Richard Brautigan writes like no other, and I still love him to death, but reading him at 40 instead of 20 is a different experience.
I used to recommend him to "young people" who read the usual counter-culture stuff (Bukowski, Burroughs, Thompson [that's Hunter S., not Jim, who's fallen back out of style it seems:] and Kerouac), but I'm not sure I would now.
Beautiful, gentle, poetic writing, funny, absurd, trippy.
When Richard Brautigan says it, I go with it.
But I don't know how many other people nowadays would.
‘The Kit Carson Hotel,’ she said.
There was a heavy label pasted on the cover and written in broad green crayon across the label was the title: Growing Flowers by Candlelight in Hotel Rooms”.A library full of the unpublished books written by hopeless writers, a library where the lost souls of the losers abide in abandonment – that is the place.
But it is also a place full of unmatched romance and full of human hopes.
The Abortion: An Historical Romance is extremely lyrical and it is also one of the best novels by one of the most original writers of his generation.
İlk yarısı harika, son 4 -5 sayfası da aynı şekilde. Ama tam ortada öyle bir bölüm vardı ki sanırım her paragrafta “Vida inanilmaz guzel, Vida guzelligi ile herkesi büyüledi, Vida gercekten çok güzel, Vida bidibidibidibidi”. İlk yarısında çok seveceğimi düşündüğüm bir kitap nasıl oldu da bu kadar kendini tekrarlayarak beni sıktı bilemiyorum. Yine de hoştu.
Wow, what a great novel.Just when I think I have read the best Brautigan novel and he can't possibly get any better, then I read this and realise that, like William Burroughs, his writing got better and better with age.Many people rave about Naked Lunch but really Burroughs's magnum opus is the incredibly wild and fantastic The Western Lands - a book he wrote towards the end of his life.
Her Richard Brautigan kitabı bir Wim Wenders filmi tadında! İnanılmaz çarpıcı! Yazarın olaylara değil durumlara takılı kaldığımız bir kitabı daha... Brautigan'ın romanda betimlediği kütüphane çok ilgi çekiciydi. Bir kütüphaneci olarak aklımda en çok kalan kısmı bu kütüphaneydi diyebilirim. Herkesin kendi imkanlarıyla bastığı ya da el yazması şeklinde olan kitabı kütüphaneye alınır. Bunu alan kütüphaneci kitabın başkarakteridir. The Braugtigan Library diye internette rastladığım böyle bir kütüphane hayata geçirilmiş! Çok güzel ve çok etkileyiciydi.
Although I love Brautigan and there's no doubt in him being one of the best Magic Realism authors,but I was a little bit disappointed in this book. The idea of the library was great, and how the librarian had the chance to meet this beautiful Vida and how they got along was interesting. But the rest of the book was unbelievably boring..نمیشه گفت یکی از کارهای خوب براتیگان بود. ایده اولیه کتاب درباره کتابخانه عالی بود ، ولی روند داستان از یه جایی به بعد خسته کننده شد.
when i read this in high school, it seemed like a great short piece about a fanciful library, with a novel about some chick getting an abortion stapled onto the end of it. this time around it all came together and did that "hey check it out, i'm a diamond!" thing. that richard brautigan, he knew what he was doing. he might have been a paranoid schizophrenic, an alcoholic, and a generally funny-lookin' dude, but he was a genius, one of a kind, and not to be replaced.
you know, the style of this book was great and the story was fantastic but i could've done with about 50% less physical descriptions of vida, whose beauty may have been arresting in person but could not carry the story.
I was dreaming through every page, and it was the most playful, pleasant succession of dreams I have ever had.
Brautigan takes on the quirky bookstore owner genre before it was hip.
It seems to me that The Abortion marks the point at which he started to drift off course (he came back on course later) in the sense that it is a lot less chaotic (and rich) than (for example) A Confederate General from Big Sur and more like a novella that has been artificially inflated by the use of needless repetition and unnecessary incidents.
At his best, he is one of the most startling writers of all.Fortunately The Abortion does have some of Brautigan's trademark uniqueness and utterly unexpected metaphors to lighten the journey of the two main protagonists to Mexico.
My second trip through Brautigan's surreal romantic landscape.
I first read this book while in college in 1995 and it blew me away like most almost everything counter-culture and avant-garde blew my hayseed mind away back then.
Brautigan is a prose poet of a novelist and this one unfolds like the relaxed field of daisies for hire he describes, brought on by nipping whiskey in the afternoon, newly in love.
For lovers of physical books and bookstacks, it's worth it merely for the descriptions of the myriad books deposited in the mysterious library where the events of the story unfold.
Great
He houses these original copies in his library (whose address is actually the real Presidio Branch library in San Franciso).
Eventually, he falls in love with the most beautiful woman in the world and gets her pregnant.
To me, the "abortion" represents both a literal abortion that the librarian's girlfriend has, but also all the aborted novels and creative dreams of those unwanted books written by forgotten writers housed in the seeping caves of Northern California.
Eventually, the librarian's own life is aborted as well when he finds himself dismissed from his long-time position at this strange library after leaving it's womb for a mere 12 hours.
Here some keywords I came across before reading Brautigan for the first time (a.k.a. this novel): hippie, cult, outsider, naïve, lunatic, beatnik etc. etc. Oh those lazy critics and their stereotypes. I'll tell you what he is: an excellent writer of (in this case) a very tender story. Terrific. PS Yesterday I finished Kafka on the Shore and funny enough I just discovered that Haruki Murakami cited him as a major influence. Well, perhaps he is, but Brautigan is obviously a more gifted writer.
Less charming the second time around. The rapturous description of the way his nineteen-year old girlfriend makes instant coffee, which stuck with me as secular prayer for years after reading it as a twenty-one year old, comes off now as leering (see jacket photo for male leer and female supplicant gaze). The author/protagonist's endless delectation of women's bodies writing in the mid-1960s only made me long for the arrival of the feminists with their long knives in the 1970s. Samson needed a haircut.
I think we have the power to transform our lives into brand-new instantaneous rituals that we calmly act out when something hard comes up that we must do.We become like theaters.
Not quit as swift as some of his others but still just as much bumbling fun. Braughtigan kicks ass.
The words were flown like music ! A dreamy Sunday read, light and lovely.Delightfully written in an awkwardly delicate style.It is great book!
So much so that it seems like the narrator only really falls for her because of her knockers, which I gather are “spectacular” (Seinfeld reference).“She had very large fully realized breasts and an incredibly tiny waist and large full hips that tapered down into long majestic legs.” Pg 41“She was developed to the most extreme of western man's desire in this century for women to look: the large breasts, the tiny waist, the large hips, the long Playboy furniture legs.” Pg 43But why does she love him?
There's Brautigan's authorial self-insertion by way of one of those never-to-be-read books:MOOSE by Richard Brautigan.
He looked as if he would be more at home in another era.This was the third or fourth book he had brought to the library.
Every time he brought in a new book he looked a little older, a little more tired.
He looked quite young when he brought in the first book.
(28)I came across this novel by way of some random person's profile on a dating website, which is the most useful thing I've gotten from said website in ages.
Not exactly a cheery outlook on American life in the 1960s.Initially the idea is treated obliquely and we are introduced to the narrator as the sole worker in a sort of anti-library where authors – young, old, good, bad – bring their books to be catalogued, placed on the shelves, and forgotten: never to be opened, never to be read.
“It’s science-fiction.”The second half of the novel centres around a trip to Mexico for the narrator’s girlfriend’s abortion, all of which is plainly told in a departure from the author’s usual style.
Maybe it was intended as a real-life counterpoint to the fantasy of the first half but it’s not great reading.
E poco importa se l'edizione Marcos y Marcos è intitolata La casa dei libri e quella isbn, appunto, L'aborto - Una storia romantica.
Perché è di questo che tratta il libro: di un aborto, e di una storia romantica, semplice, spontanea, senza patemi né corteggiamenti.
E l'aborto non è una metafora.Nella vita di un giovane bibliotecario, che fa la guardia a una strana biblioteca in cui vengono accolti i libri scritti e portati personalmente da chiunque ne abbia voglia, irrompe la bellissima Vida.
La voce narrante, quella del bibliotecario, è di una liricità rara, semplice, immediata eppure profonda.Forse "La casa dei libri" attira di più, come titolo.
The thing that struck me most about this book was Brautigan's use of simile and metaphor.
Like Orwell calls for in Politics & the English Language, the connections Brautigan makes in/with his metaphors are wholly original.
Is he just being disingenuous with his simple writing, is the subtle undercurrent of sadness buried beneath blankets of laissez-faire hippie-ism intentional, or just my interpretation, or what?Because of the book's simplicity, there was a lot of symbolism that showed through pretty overtly, which I thought was really great.
I thoroughly enjoyed it and definitely look forward to reading everything else by Brautigan.
