https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1422926.Frosty_the_Snow_Man
This older version of a much loved children’s classic is a fun and wholesome read of winter fantasy and frolic. Imagination and creativity turn an average day into an exciting experience.
Classic, my girls and I love reading the each year :)
Ok, Frosty was drawn kinda creepy though...
I read this when I was a child .... had a lot of the Golden Books in my library!This is the classic story of the snowman that came to life, and befriended some of the local children. Heart-warming holiday story about friendship.
Decent attempt to make the song into a story, but it's been done better.
GB 27 (3)
Frosty never gets old! Young kids know the Frosty song, but now they can read the Frosty story. This book will be a hit especially during the Winter.
Love the retro illustrations! My 1st graders love this book and it's perfect for simple holiday lessons as we wrap up the semester before Christmas break.
Fun, magical story that all ages can enjoy. Who doesn't want that snowman you have struggled so hard to build to magically come to life?
#snow #frosty #YoungReaders #PictureBook #BookReview #ChildrensBooks #amreading When everyone was playing with Frosty, where did he go?
Of all the holiday characters, Frosty isn't my favorite, but never is he better than right here in this book from my childhood. Featured on the No Extra Words podcast Special #21
451-9 has barcode
All of a sudden, a gust of wind brings a top hat onto Frosty's head and he comes to life.
After he comes to life, Frosty takes the children and they go sledding, they build a snow house, and they go ice skating.
The children are able to stay warm all day because they are with Frosty.
When the children are finally able to cross the street they ask the policeman where Frosty went.
The policeman tells the children that Frosty went where every snowman goes on a sunny day and that he would be back again when the next snow falls.
This book is about Frosty the Snowman and how he came to life when some children built him and put a magic hat on his head.
Frosty and the children had the most fun days together, they were magical.
And one day Frosty disappears, but the children know that he will be back someday.
I have never really liked the story of Frosty the Snowman.
The children looked like normal children, but Frosty looked like a snowman from a horror movie...I would not use this book with my children.
I have never liked the story, and it doesn’t have a good pertinent message to teach.
Adapted from the original song by the same title, this short children's book expounds on the tale of Frosty the Snowman. It's a little different than how it's portrayed in the short kid's film, but they are fairly close given they have the same foundation. The artwork is fun and lively, adding to the draw in for small children. Especially where my daughter got to build her first snowman this year, Frosty was an even bigger hit than usual.
A fun and entertaining book to share with younger students. This is the story of Frosty the Snow Man and it is a fun way to have a relaxing and entertaining read aloud during a down time throughout the winter. A nice resource to have avaiable in the classroom.
I loved this book when I was a kid. Even now I enjoy reading this on occasion. It's a sweet kids book about a magical snowman who helps kids have some wintry fun! A great book to read during the winter, especially at Christmas, and it would certainly be enjoyed!
What I love about Frosty is he is loveable. You want to walk right up to him and give a hug. He makes you feel at ease and you find yourself laughing along. And, the storyline makes you cry. How silly! A hat that makes you come to life.
This Little Golden Book was an absolute favorite of mine, growing up in the 1950's. I grew up in New England and it was very exciting waiting for a big snowfall. While waiting, we could always dream about Frosty.
If you like the tv special you will like the book. This is a book that gets children excited. If you are comfortable singing it would be best to sing the book and hopefully the parents and children join in.
Great kindergarten - first grade read...this is an older version but the story is the same...the pictures are tight and classic and I feel they serve to get the listeners to focus more on the story where as the newer version I find they focus more on the pictures...it may just be me...
A lovely story, again a story for an adult and a child to read together, and enjoy together.
I loved it when I was a kid and now my son is enjoying it also!
My sister and I had this in our (mostly Little Golden Book) library when we were kids. We read it all year long, but it was especially popular at Christmas time. That cover sure brings me back.
I think this is a story for children of all ages. This is a tale that we have heard since we were young. I think this would be a good book to incorporate into a class around Christmastime.
This is the edition that I had as a child. I don't remember seeing it since we moved. I'm going to have to look in our storage for all of these books I keep realizing are "missing".
this version is a nostalgic favorite.
Frosty The Snow Man by Annie North Bedford (1951)
liked the snowman
Uninspired.
