https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/483657.Jack_Pumpkinhead_of_Oz
I recently read that the original book was a populist allegory and decided to revisit the series.
It wasn't long before I was shifting uncomfortably in my seat and trying to explain that actually this movie is unacceptably racist and that rape is not funny...but that I still have affectionate feelings for the overall theme (painful adolescent experiences, acted by real teenagers who actually look like they're awkward and 15).I'm having some similar feelings stirring as I read this book.
Frank Baum's death, and I can't tell yet if she is attempting to carry on with his political symbolism or just writing really embarrassing racist characters.
Enjoyable, but Peter from Philadelphia is not my favorite character, just always a bit too bland.
Peter from Philadelphia is back this time, and has adventures primarily with Jack Pumpkinhead, who was introduced in "Land of Oz" and has has been along for the ride ever since.
This novel is flawed only by the introduction of an unnecessarily racist character: a small black slave who appears with food when a bell is rung.
I know it was a different time when the book was written, but, even so, it can make one uncomfortable, and this is the second time Thompson has injected racism into the Oz series.
A poor Ruth Plumly Thompson Oz book.
The book opens with a whole host of poor irrelevant episodes (Chimney villian, the goody shop, the Christmas tree, the scares etc.) randomly roaming about Oz for the first 100 pages or so before anything resembling a plot begins.
The plot (when it eventually starts) is uninspired involving a Baron and a kidnapped princess and yet another attempt to conquer the Emerald City.
Thompson wrote some fairly good Oz books (although very different to L.
Frank Baum's) but this isn't one of them.
Even the usually reliable John R.
Neill's illustrations are below standard.
Nowhere close to the charm, magic, and inventiveness of the originals. These books should not be considered Oz canon.
