https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4659.A_Widow_for_One_Year
I hated this book. John Iriving's inability to write women characters was a huge problem in this book since it has a female protagonist. I didn't care about her at all and I wasn't that intrigued by the story either. I generally like John Irving's writing style, but it didn't make any difference to me with this book because I didn't like one single character.
OK here's my final word on John Irving, because I will probably never read anything else he's written (though I've heard The World According to Garp is his best.) His characters are real and they were JUST ENOUGH to keep me going each of the twenty times I nearly stopped reading this novel.
The plot is a rambling patchwork in which we never, ever, forget the writer sitting at his typewriter, searching for something to say.
When he finds it, he riffs on it till it dies, and then searches for something else.
I felt sorry for his characters, having to submit to such an unbelievable series of twists and turns.
Irving’s protagonist, world-famous author Ruth Cole, gives one hope that the powers of the imagination can compensate for lacking experience.
When Ruth doubts her imagination and seeks real-life research for inspiration, she finds that reality is rarely as scripted and contained as her fiction.
Ruth vehemently criticizes a journalistic tendency to mirror one’s stories on autobiography; yet one wonders how many of Irving’s repeat themes stick with him due to his personal history.One aspect of A Widow for One Year that struck a chord (other than the glorious title) was the fact that, except for on a few rare occasions, the characters did not change.
Reading Irving out of chronological order allowed me to have the themes and elements of A Widow for One Year in mind when I got around to reading The World According to Garp.
That's where this one wins me over: while it reflects all the greatness Irving is capable of (both this book and Garp are literary fugues that spool out with equal acuity in the directions of tragedy and comedy), this one left me feeling connected to the characters after I had finished reading--thinking of their futures, imagining the easier-breathing sort of happiness they could anticipate post-story, wishing them well.A beautiful book.
A Widow for One Year turned out to be better than I initially thought, although the pages featuring graphic sex scenes were kind of disturbing and felt out-of-place in the story. This book otherwise not only paints a vivid, realistic portrait of grief, but also love and nostalgia.
The first thing that struck me about this book was the heart-stopping beauty of Marion, a central character near the beginning of the book.
Its not just a physical description, its the way that the rest of the image is a bit darker, a bit fuzzier when Marion is in the picture, like Irving is using the depth of field in a photograph to highlight the subject, like her physical brilliance is so overwhelming that everything else is dimmed.Looking back, though, that's really all that there was for me in this book.
Does the author do this in all his books?Omg I just finished it.
The characters were all flat, reduced to one quirk and one obsession, with maybe one exception (Rooie), and OMG again, why would a writer write about a writer writing about a writer?
And why would the author avoid simple names or pronouns, and use "the sixteen-year-old" or "the strawberry-blonde lawyer" or "the prostitute" instead?
"The prostitute" was the only interesting character in the whole book, the only one I cared about, and I hated Ruth for what she did (or rather didn't).
What the hell happened to John Irving??? The man that gave us Garp, Cider House, and Owen Meany has only produced mediocre works at best since 2000. Thankfully we have Richard Russo.
His compelling prose has a clarity and starkness that manages to entertain your brain and soul while permanently incorporating his characters and stories into your memory and being.Irving is not one of those writers who kicks out a new novel every year.
Irving includes their writings as an integral part of the novel.
It is a very easy book to read and nearly impossible to put down once you’ve started it.Having made that disclaimer, let me say that yet another delightful part of this book is the comments Irving makes on writers and writing.
(sorry to all of you who think this was a terrible thing to say!) He is funny sometimes and he does write memorable scenes, however...
However, and I do mean a BIG however, there are some things I really object to here.#1 A bereaved mother has an affair with a teenage boy.
As a bereaved mother I find this kind of thinking just incomprehensible.
I also didn’t think leaving Ruth was realistic.
#2 There is so much sex in this book.
I seem to have more feelings about it than Ruth does!
I seem to have more feelings about it than Ruth does!
The first couple hundred pages of the book, before it jumps forward several decades, are the most even, and it is this part of the story that is most endearing.
I didn't buy every plot turn/twist (and the shaky pages set in Amsterdam make it clear that Irving is far more at home in his native New England), but Irving is a great storyteller and easily convinces the reader to weather the impressive storm of plot mechanics he (again) rouses to move things along.
Irving gets around conflict in the second part of the book by killing people off.
Don't want to deal with the Ruth/Ted conflict?
Shouldn't Graham's resemblance to Timothy have some affect on Ruth?) It's particularly frustrating when a book that takes such care to develop its characters and relationships throws them into over the top plot devices and removes their complexity of emotions.
I keep trying to justify it by thinking that perhaps the different parts are supposed to be reflective of the novelists in the story, the careful character development of Ruth's style, the crime caper of Marion's style.
I hated about 89% of this book.
Loved Eddie's goofy dad, the clam truck driver, Mrs. Vaughan, Ted drunkenly making Ruth grilled cheese.
I was really excited to keep reading.
I even loved the beginning of the next part-- Eddie running around in the rain trying to get to the book reading.
Adult Ruth was insufferable.
Ruth's journal and novel excerpts-- yep, insufferable.
Only thankful I didn't read this in an academic setting because I'm sure it was a METAPHOR or something but seriously shut up about squash.
Just hated it.
Otherwise, I wish I would have quit reading this.
Man ļoti patīk Ērvinga stils. Lēnām izbaudīju grāmatas lapu pēc lapas. Stāsts bija labs un ik pa laikam bija pārsteidzoši momenti. Neskatoties uz to, ka stāsts sākās ar Marionu, Ediju un Tedu, man tas visu laiku bija stāsts par Rutu un daļas par deviņdesmitajiem man patika vislabāk.
I was very close to not finishing this book around page 350 (the first section wasn't so bad, but the middle really lagged).
I am glad, however, that I continued reading because it got much better toward the end.
I started liking Ruth only when she got married and became a mother.
Anyway, I don't know that I would recommend this book to anyone I know (in fact, I know I wouldn't) but the last 200 pages redeemed itself for me.
Точно такива романи обичам - големи, интересни, умни, мъдри.
Джон Ървинг просто е майстор.
Умее да пише истории, които нито за миг не доскучават, а героите му са така добре изпипани, че остават в съзнанието като живо хора, които си срещал и с които си общувал.
Не знам как успява така добре да завърти нещата, да вкара толкова много и разнообразни истории, в няколкото преплитащи се сюжетни линии, без да се размие нищо и без да изглежда недостоверно.
Това е третата ми книга на Ървинг и то без да съм прочела най-известната му.
Нямам търпение за "Сетът според Гарп"Обичам точно такива романи, наистина.
Well, here's some: At times Irving writes with the grace of a ballet dancer and at others he lumbers along like a blindfolded football player looking for an exit.
This is a good place to write a novel?)The characters' interactions and lives also seem unreal.
Also objectionable: the 'comic' parts that deteriorate into vaudeville slapstick...specifically the jilted adulteress gunning for her seducer with her car.
One thing that was interesting was a convoluted device that had characters commenting and reflecting on how much or little novel writing contains autobiographical vs.
At times this was like looking in a mirror and seeing yourself holding a mirror and looking back.
John Irvings website describes A Widow For One Year as " Richly comic, as well as deeply disturbing, A Widow for One Year is a multilayered love story of astonishing emotional force.
Both ribald and erotic, it is also a brilliant novel about the passage of time and the relentlessness of grief."  It all sounds so appealing to me so what a shame it is to discover that after reading all 668 pages my astonishing emotional responses were relief that I can now move on to something else, and disappointment that I clearly missed alot of what was great about it.
Lo rincontrai anni dopo, quando una mia amica me lo fece trovare il giorno del mio compleanno con “Preghiera per un amico”, pronto a raccontarmi le storie di una persona a lui carissima, Owen, che presto divenne il mio migliore amico.
Non ci sono mai stati periodi di maretta tra me e John, però come spesso accade alle coppie navigate, ci siamo lasciati prendere la mano dalla routine quotidiana e dalla monotonia dell’abitudine.Ammetto di non essere esente da colpe: anche senza andare da un consulente familiare, sapevo benissimo che ci sono stati lunghi periodi in cui non gli ho dedicato abbastanza tempo.
“What greater thing is there for two human souls, than to feel that they are joined for life - to strengthen each other in all labor, to rest on each other in all sorrow, to minister to each other in all pain, to be one with each other in silent unspeakable memories at the moment of the last parting?“Oh, John Irving.
Published in 1998, exactly twenty years after The World According to Garp, A Widow for One Year is in many ways a spiritual successor to that modern classic.
This is John Irving — you either like it, or you don’t.
If Garp is stark winter — for it is quite bleak, pessimistic — then Widow is early Autumn: this story is told in shades of light brown and orange.
The first half is Irving at his best.
All those hooks on the wall.
All that honesty amid all that posturing.
All that clunky sex amid endless guilt.The second half embodies the detachment, the absurdity, the too-many-ideas-at-once that the main characters have grown to embrace.
It's unsettling.
Is widowhood, is the death of one's children, is witnessing a murder supposed to be anything besides unsettling?The story is frustrating, but I'm overcome with the sensation that Irving knew exactly what he was doing all along.
Frustration is a bold goal to set for oneself, but I can't imagine Irving any other way but bold.
My 4-star "read" review is really a misnomer because I haven't really "read" this book.
This is my third try at it and once again I am stopping at the same spot I stopped the other two times!
I reread the first third of the book, which I enjoyed, got into the second third of the book, read about 50 pages and come to a grinding halt.
I'm really not sure what it is that is stopping me at this point but since it is the third time, I'm not sure I will try again.
Irving sometimes irritates me and sometimes elates me.
The second third of this book, for some reason, irritates me.....
Another winner from John Irving.I listened to A Widow for One Year on Audio CD read by one of my favorite narrators, George Guidall.It is a book about authors and their books and their lives.
It spans 37 years in the lives of Ruth Cole and Eddie O'Hare.Ruth is the protagonist.
Eddie becomes one of the family.This book is Irving's ninth novel, and, according to some, very intricately crafted.
Please let me know what YOUR favorite Irving book is.
Probably no other Irving book as 'Owen' will be so beloved by me, but I am going to read at least 3 more of his books.
To be honest, I picked it up just because:a) It was long and it was summerb) It began with the sentence "One night when she was four and sleeping in the bottom bunk of her bunk bed, Ruth Cole woke to the sound of lovemaking -it was coming from her parents' bedroom".You can beat a beginning like that one, but it's gonna be hard.So I did what I'm not used to do: I entered a literary work without any clues whatsoever.
When I think about a book written by John Irving, the picture that comes to mind is a vine; a vine that weaves within itself and spreads thick in it’s own mass.
This is the 3rd Irving book I have read.
This particular book is about a family that lives in The Hamptons.
The father, Ted is an author of children’s books.
They have a daughter, Ruth, after the accident in an attempt to bring their family back together.
Irving takes these 4 characters and begins weaving his plot in such articulate detail, it hovers on the line of genius.
One interview said the book's "comic masterstroke" was that writer John Irving made all of the characters in this book writers.
Most of this book felt like a big inside joke between John Irving and John Irving.
Then I made the mistake of reading some biographical details about Irving (even though his main character in Widow for One Year, Ruth, says that she never reads biographies of authors because they make her feel let down), and I felt let down.
John Irving is a very creative person, but I expect slightly more from such a famous author.
One of the great books Irving has ever written, this novel is basically two stories in one.
It was well cast with Jeff Bridges and Kim Basinger and filmed on location on Long Island.
Mom is numb and never bonds with the child and the father, an artist, does bond, but his guilt and his wife's blame and indifference, fuels his need for escape and drink.
The life of this girl is the first part of this immense book.
The second part (not in the film) is about her life as an adult: wrong men, wrong choices, guilt, escape and ultimately redemption and happiness.
A very long book.
I enjoyed the first maybe 120 pages.
The italics.
My god, the italics!
(and the parentheses.) It had been 25 or so years since I'd read an Irving book, and I'd loved Garp and Owen Meany.
This brick I picked up at a library sale and for a while it had been elevating my laptop until one day I thought maybe I should actually read the book.
I did enjoy some of this book but kept wondering what happened to the editor that this was what went to press.
A fifth star (from me) means there has to be something timeless about the story, passages that express moments of what I think of as universal connection and deep understanding.
Plus, if one is a writer, the thoughts in the writer character's head re her development of a novel are especially fascinating.I could not imagine how a sixteen year-old boy would stay in love with a woman he fell in love with when she was thirty-six.
Una prova abbastanza modesta da parte di Irving, scrittore che solitamente mi piace.
Solo a tratti ho trovato il suo consueto accattivante modo di narrare.
Le situazioni proposte e i personaggi sono poco convincenti, anche considerando il fatto che, nei romanzi di questo autore, c’è sempre una componente surreale.
Ma, qui, funziona poco anche quella.
A dirla sinceramente, mi è quasi parso che Irving abbia un po’ combinato alla bell’e meglio idee sparse e poco coerenti tra loro.
I temi a lui cari ci sono sempre, ma appaiono raffazzonati e messi insieme per dovere, più che per la voglia sincera di raccontare.
