https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/117645.The_Sign_of_the_Twisted_Candles
In Sign of the Twisted Candles, we have not only the Nancy of the 1930s, with her blonde bob, but one of the best written books of the entire series.While it is still a book designed for youthful readers, there is much better writing, a bit more depth, and not a small dose of nostalgia when read today.
The Sign of the Twisted Candles is one of the finest in the series, in its original form, and this is the real Nancy Drew.
Okay, so when you need a way for evil persons and their cohorts to get in and out of a big, spooky house, ADD a staircase, make it hidden, tell everyone that oh, we sortof forgot that was there!Now add in a banker who acts like a superhero and is only on scene when needed; a prominent lawyer,Carson Drew, who is really a big-time player in this story; a foster child being overworked and abused by her foster parents; a long-time family feud which just so happens to involve Nancy's two friends, Bess and George; AND a boyfriend who shows up at the most opportune of moments.
I have to call this a favorite.... this was the book that started my obsession with reading. My parents bribed me into reading by telling me I could have $1 for every Nancy Drew book I finished. The Sign of the Twisted Candles was the first one I finished and I LOVED it. I loved it enough to keep going without remembering to get the $$ from the parents.I've been a bookworm ever since. :)
Thanks to Melanie Rehak's enlightening treatise on the Stratemeyer company; I know Walter Karig penned volumes 8-10, after hardworking Mildred A.
They were wanted for arrest but kept stealing and rendering guards unconscious!
The premise that started out plausibly is cousins Bess and George hearing a relative might be in distress.
The poorest-written part is Bess and George hardening towards Nancy because her Dad becomes his lawyer.
Jenny letting herself be nabbed from Nancy's house was ridiculous too.
I learned the word “chandler” and thrillingly observed Asa celebrating his hundredth birthday with Nancy, Bess, George, and Jenny!
I should be embarrassed to add this to my "read" books, but I just finished it and wanted to record it in Goodreads.
Wanting something light and fun to read, I selected it from our bookroom, and enjoyed every minute reading it...again.
The last time I read it was a looooong time ago.
Today the language is rather stilted, but the action moves right along.
Why the old man wanted to keep Sadie's heritage a secret is not revealed.
That part of the book was nonsensical to me, but then again, it is a Nancy Drew mystery, and just a fun read.
Nancy, George and Bess visit George and Bess's family members at an inn known as "The Sign of the Twisted Candles".
Here they're caught in a family feud over the oldest member of the family's fortune.
And let me tell you, this family gets vicious.
They're very cutthroat and manipulative over who gets what.
But of course Nancy is willing to help out, especially when it comes to young Carol, a foster child of two of the people involved.
I liked the fact that this wasn't a typical mystery for Nancy.
It focused mostly on family dynamics rather than an actual crime.
This is my favorite Nancy Drew books, and one of my favorite books that I have ever read. I can't recommend this one enough.
Another Nancy Drew book with a proper meal in it!Nancy and her friends find themselves at an inn, where the caretakers (as usual) have made the unwise decision of abusing the elderly owner who may or may not have a large fortune to dispose of in his will.
This happens often in Nancy Drew novels, it seems.At any rate, while the caretakers are taking a break from belittling their staff and neglecting the elderly benefactor, Nancy places a fancy lunch order, because, surprise!
Another classic Nancy Drew episode. Nancy helps her friends George and Bess check on a long-lost relative. I found it very ironic that the mystery they ask Nancy to help with, almost ruins their friendship. That just added a little bonus to the overall mystery. I really liked that Nancy interacted more with her father in this episode. I loved seeing their relationship up-close.
One of my all time favorite Nancy Drew books. At the time I was about 10 and I found this to be one of the more suspensful books in the series. When I think back to my childhood readings, this book always pops into my mind.
I remember as a kid sitting in the living room by the fire reading Nancy' s mysteries! They all had the same theme, but I didn't care. At that age, I couldn't wait to read more!
When Nancy's friends ask her to investigate the treatment of an elderly relative of theirs things get a bit...twisted.
There she finds an elderly man confined to a tower room being looked after by a couple and their foster daughter.
As time passes it becomes apparent that the couple are mistreating both the elderly man and the child.
Nancy takes matters into her own hands and soon uncovers the scheming couple's motives.
This installment was fast paced, witty and overall a fun read.
It was shorter than most of the other books and that helped with the pacing.
Nancy Drew is not as good as I remembered, but I needed a palate cleanser, a break from all the alcoholic, addiction, deviant memoirs I read - and the news in the country and the world. For that, it was perfect, like stepping into an episode of Father Knows Best, but not having to get stuck there!
Awww, things were simple in Nancy's world. Although I loved these mysteries as a child, this one was probably not a favorite of even my 10-year-old self.
But it's Nancy Drew, so of course they find that the wealthy old man is a near prisoner in his own house, and not only are the people he hired to run the inn and the restaurant robbing him blind, his feuding relatives are frothing at the mouth for him to die so they can get their hands on his money.
Nancy's father steps in to write a new will for Asa Sydney, but he knows it will cause endless problems--which it does.I have read almost no Nancy Drews (I grew up with Enid Blyton's Famous Five mystery series), so I was interested to see what it would be like.
Yet another of my mother's Nancy Drew books, this one I had read when we first found them, but it's been a while so I decided to give this one another go with my current nostalgia trip.This one starts on a dark and stormy night, which causes Nancy and her friends Bess and George to stop at an isolated place none of them had ever heard of called the Sign of the Twisted Candles.
Things get even more complicated when the old man reveals he is involved in an old family feud which just might include Nancy's friends Bess and George.I really enjoy this particular mystery.
Good Nancy Drew book.
I loved how it hooked me up with every cliff hanger in the end of each chapter.
But what I didn't like about it was Bess and George giving Nancy the cold shoulder.
Good story.
But as usual, I like the updated version of Nancy Drew better.
It's hard imagining her with no technology as I'm used to reading the modernized version, lol.
I find those rather old school, but good.
I loved how Nancy used her wits and never gave up.
Also, I loved how she took good care of Carol and protected her from her cruel, stupid foster parents.
Don't get me wrong, I love Bess and George, really, but I don't like the way they were toward Nancy and Carol and this book.
But then they turned back to normal by the end of the book.One of the reasons I love this book is because Ned is in it!
I love Ned!
But I sometimes feel like I'm the only person in the whole Nancy drew fandom that ships Nancy and Ned. Nedcy for the win!All n' all, this was a really good book, I can't wait to read it again.
It's been years since I picked up a Nancy Drew book to read.
Growing up, I was more of a Trxie Belden fan than Nancy Drew.
However, this was a very fast read.
I found the book to be very sweet.
I loved the way that Nancy would get to the bottom of the mystery.
Maybe it's because I'm older.
Or maybe because I've read so much more, but the actual writing had an almost childish feel to it.
It's a great book for kids.
I didn't love it.I read this for the category candle in Book Cover Bingo.
this is the case that almost, tears nancy , bess, and george apart. old asa sidney, great grand uncle of bess and george is in some trouble. thievery, sniveling, abusive caretakers, angry, dominating male relatives, and broken friendships cause angst. this was THE nancy drew i wanted so, so bad when i was little. can you blame me just look at the cover.
Surprisingly this didn't impress me as much for a couple of reasons:- Danica Reese's narration. Please bring Laura Linney back :(- There was not so much as a mystery in this, not much of a story sadly. I know that they were trying to find why Mr. Sydney was so attached to Carol but there is not so much a mystery to it.
I read all the Nancy Drew books (and the Hardy Boys) when I was a child, but I will admit that I have read them all again as an adult (a few years ago). The stories are old fashioned, but that's why I like them so much.
This is the legendary Nancy Drew Mystery Story where she has a falling out with Bess and George over an estranged relative and they BRIEFLY STOP SPEAKING. Obviously, this is a shocking landmark moment in the history of Nancy Drew.
I thought the book was amazing! There was many scary and exciting parts in the book. By far, my favorite part was at the end. I recommend people reading the Nancy Drew series to read this book. It is my new favorite book of all time!
This book was good! At first I had trouble getting in to it but after I got into it it was good. At parts it was a little scary and gave me the creeps but over all I really enjoyed it I would recommend this book to 11 year olds and up.
Fun! (And more densely plotted than the updated Nancy Drew that I grew up on.)
As usual, this series delivers.
Hurricane Flo reading fodder.
For me this is what I call a perfect Nancy Drew mystery.With "the sign of twisted candles" ,I finish the initial ten books in the series.
However I must state that the title is misleading, though there is a lot of discussion on invention,development and usage of candles the mystery do not surround them in any way.Its a must-read for anyone who likes a nice cozy mystery.I loved the book so much primarily because of its beautiful language and narrative and maybe also because by sheer chance I got hold of the genuine edition of the book which was originally published in 1933.
(This review is for the revised text only)Very entertaining story!
Intriguing and although a little choppy at times, it was a very fun read.
I enjoyed the tension between Nancy and the cousins during the story, which was different and added some characterization to them, which is very rare in the original series(although it was a bit out of character for Bess and George to act the way they did in the story).
There weren't as many coincidences as there is in other ND books and the investigating at and around the inn was fun.
Although the family tree in this book was pretty confusing.
Overall, a very enjoyable ND book.
