https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13149.The_Thomas_Berryman_Number
Aye...Now, I'm hopeful that JP fans and James himself, can forgive me for this review, given that he sold like 400 million copies of his books since. BUT, this was slowwwwwww. This is James's first ever published novel, back in 1976. I'm not surprised, however, that James's first few novels have been lost in history amid the Alex Cross craze. Not many people have even heard of this novel (including myself up until not long ago) called The Thomas Berryman Number. I'll start with the writing. I kn
Aye...Now, I'm hopeful that JP fans and James himself, can forgive me for this review, given that he sold like 400 million copies of his books since.
I know that, since this first novel, James's writing has improved a lot.
It's not terrible in this novel, but it's a bit stunted and lacks the sort of paciness that he's become famous for since.
Okay back to the writing quickly - to James's credit, it is clear that he's always been a very very good writer of first-person narration.
This is a shortish novel, easy to read in a day or two or three.
There are two minimum requirements for a story, that you have a plot, and that you write in a method that the reader can follow, and this book failed on both counts.
The story jumped around so much that it was hard to follow what was going on and I'm still not quite sure what happened.
I'm a big fan of Patterson and have read most of his work.
If there is one possitive thing to come out of this book it is that James Patterson's story telling has greatly improved since he penned this work
The Thomas Berryman Number was my 21st Patterson novel and how ironic the bomb i would find planted within the Patterson bibliography would be his very first book ever??!!
Now everyone sets out in life in their chosen profession on a trial and error basis, given that I am no way at the point where i would say well that's it hands down...no more Patterson however if The Thomas Berryman Number was the very first book i had ever read of Patterson's i would've definatly thought really hard about reading anymore of his work.
DO NOT WASTE YOUR TIME. It was boring and it would never end. I can usually read his stuff in a day but this was not the case. It took forever to finish and I wanted to throw it away half way through the book. It never got better.
This was James Patterson's first book. As I was reading it I was so confused about the whole thing. If I had read this before any of his others I dont think I would have read any of his other books! It was very odd!
I've never read a James Patterson book before and having been given this one, and being in between books, I thought I'd give it a go.
And then I started reading.
From the start, I struggled to understand what was happening to whom.
I have a pile of books to read and was not going to waste any more time on this one.I am sure Patterson is successful for a reason, though I can only assume it is in spite of this book.
I had heard great things about this author, so I thought that I would read one of his early books and make my way through his works. This book was excruciating to read. I almost quit reading it numerous times. I eventually finished it, but there was nothing satisfying about finishing it. The book jumped around all over the place and was hard to follow at times. Nothing enjoyable about it!
I have read a lot of James Patterson (Alex Cross, Women's Murder Club) and usually enjoy it. I decided to read some of his older books - and this book was an incredible disappointment. It was fragmented and hard to follow. I would not recommend it.
But to get my hands on his debut novel was a different kind of excitement.The book starts with a bang.
Following a hunch, he interviews a patient at a mental hospital who has been raving about the assassination plot and a hitman named Thomas Berryman since before the assassination of Jimmie Horn.
James Patterson has obviously matured and improved over the time, but his debut novel is nothing close to any of his other books.
Also, there’s nearly not enough action in the book – at least nearly not as much as we have come to expect from a James Patterson novel.
This was the first book that published for James Patterson.
Ochs Jones, the narrator, is a reporter for a Nashville paper who is hoping to make it big by investigating the secretive history of Berryman.
His trek brings him to New York and throughout the South in the hopes of getting more information about the professional killer.
The question is whether or not Jones can get the information he is searching for before Berryman can strike again.I did find Jones to be an interesting narrator.
It is surprising to read, since Patterson usually has such wonderfully crafted books.
How egotistical can you get?!) so it's hard to be totally unbiased in my rating, but it's safe to say that Patterson's debut novel does not impress me much.I read this book for the 2015 PopSugar reading challenge for the category, 1st book by a popular author.
Despite my personal distaste for the man, Patterson IS one of the most popular authors out there in the U.S. right now (which says a lot for the general quality of the books being read by the American public).
I never finished it. It was very hard to follow. Boring. Lack of interest made it even harder to follow characters or even get into them. I had saw the reviews on Amazon that this book sucked. It did. First Patterson book I have not liked.
James Patterson is usually a good writer, so I'm surprised he hasn't pulled this one. Granted, I only got half way through, but still couldn't make heads or tails of it.
DNF
I'm a really BIG Fan of James Patterson's Alex Cross series, as is my Godmother Judy.
As I mentioned in my last book review on Walter Mosley's Black Betty, Judy and I talk about Alex Cross like he is real.
We also try to figure out how James Patterson, who is very white has so much insight into the life of African-Americans.
I would love to have lunch with him one day and get some up close insight.Well, Judy kept trying to get me to read Patterson's frist book, The Thomas Berryman Number, written in 1976.
If you are a fan of Patterson's Cross series this is a must read.
I believe that this is the first book written by James Patterson and I expected it to not be as good as those in later years, but I was pleasantly surprised.
Not only was it as good, but in some cases better than those he has recently written.
The story focuses on Ochs Jones, a newspaper reporter writing a story about the murder of Nashville Mayor Jimmie Horn.
What makes this more interesting is that Jimmie Horn is a black mayor during the 1970's in the south with aspirations of becoming a U.S. Senator.
As stated by others, this book is a mess. I am actually angry that I wasted my time reading this. I should've stopped after the first twenty pages but I convinced myself to give it a chance to develop. How Patterson continued to publish future books after this disaster is a mystery. The argument that it was his first book is not a valid point. Many other young writers have written excellent books. Patterson's debut seems like a drunk person wrote it. Thank goodness his writing and storytelling improved because this was a very frustrating read.
The first of Patterson's novels, it had raving reviews on the cover.
I'll be the first to admit that I can devour his stuff like candy, and I'm drawn to his non-killing books, but this was TERRIBLE.
I can't believe it won awards, never mind spawned the career that won't go away.
There are three main characters, and the only way you can tell one apart from the other is by the setting.
It has a southern feel, which was kind of nice, but otherwise stunk.
I'm on vacation and couldn't be bothered to finish it, even though I tried for days.
Should only take a few hours.
I'm an avid reader and decided to add Patterson to my list of authors to read. I typically prefer to read authors' books in the order they were written. In this case, not a good idea because this first novel of James Patterson's is bad. It's hard to follow and frankly not all that interesting. I found myself skimming through it to get through my boredom faster. I believe his next book was Season of the Machete. Please let this one be better or else I have to rethink this Patterson plan....
This, the debut novel from James Patterson, shows that he was once a promising name in literary crime fiction--though, now, he seems quite content to just stick his name on a whole lot of mediocre crap he didn't even write. That being said, although the writing in this book is excellent and reminds me of something by Dennis Lehane, the story itself is over-long and boringly simple. I dare you to read the last page and not think, "Is that it?"
To me this is James Patterson's worst book. I love his writing but I find myself just trying to get it over with. It jumps around a lot and the character really seem kind of bla to me. The only one that stick out that I wanted to know more about is the girlfriend of Berryman. I'm sitting with 100 pages to go to finish the book but I just couldn't take it anymore.If you love Pattersons' books skip this one it is a disappointment IMO
Sorry, could not finish this book. Too confusing, too many characters, too boring. I wanted to read it knowing that this was Patterson's first novel. His latest novels are much more entertaining. Guess it is a case of too many books, too little time, to spend my time on something I am not enjoying.
This book starts off with three murders in the south and a manhunt is trying to catch him. A reporter is the one who is trying to find out about him. It is a good story and a fast read. We have a few good characters in it.
This book is a stinker. That it won an Edgar amazes me. Apparently Edgar had his head up his caboose when the award was decided. I'm thinking he should instead have had a clothes pin on his nose. I love James when he's on his game, but in this case he had no game at all.
Very difficult to follow the story. I did not like this book. I'm glad this is not the first Patterson book I ever read or I would never read another.
Way good I don't want you to come to any conclusions on account of what I say. But I just love this man James patterson!
This is James Patterson's first novel, not his best in my opinion, but he does get better with each book thankfully.
The book however turned out to be a real gem and reminded me why I had started reading Patterson's books in the first place.
This is not the easy read that later Patterson books have become.
The storyline jumps around from past to present with a story within a story, from the viewpoint of the writer Ochs Jones, the hitman Thomas Berryman and his rival Joe Cubbah.The book draws you in as Ochs investigations identify the truth to the murder of black politician Jimmie Horn.
There are enough twists in the tale to keep you interested including the the outcome for anti-hero Thomas Berryman himself.In recent times, I have become disillusioned with Petterson's work.
But, unfortunately, this book is a huge letdown, even for diehard fans of James Patterson, as I can see from the reviews here.The narrative is utterly confusing due to its erratic jumps in time; it takes a lot of concentration just to be aware of what happens when.
Also, there is a lot of atmosphere building that doesn't work for a reader like me who has negligibly little knowledge about the America of the sixties and seventies.
And the author has left a lot for the reader to figure out by way of gaps in the plot.Apart from some humorous descriptions of places, people and life in general, reading this novel felt like a unrewarding chore, which is a sad thing, really.
2.5/5 StarsThe gripping story of a ruthless assassin,the woman he loves,and the beloved leader he is hired to kill...Conflicted and surprised, the two foremost emotions I feel right now...2.5/5 Stars is, I think, the lowest I've ever rated a book, especially one by James Patterson.
I think my two main grievances are the pace and overall cohesion, with the latter being my biggest drawback.In a small summary, the novel has an okay story, polarising characters and good writing; however, the disjointed narratives and scenes, strange structure and overall difficulty compared to Mr Patterson's later works makes it difficult to read through.
