https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76865.Good_to_Great
- This is the Fly wheel concept.Thus with Great Leadership, Great Understanding of Strengths & Weaknesses, Great Confidence, Great Focus, Great Determination and Great Discipline, consistently applied over 15-30 years makes for a great company.The whole story can be summarized in this phrase: "Build up - Breakthrough - Flywheel!"THE FLYWHEEL CONCEPT[image error]This diagram also gives a visual summary of the entire book and can be used as a ready reference.ConclusionSo, in conclusion, 'Good to Great' by Jim Collins has nothing new to offer but still provides us with a concrete 5-year study and a plausible reason to follow such common sensical things such as finding the right people, understanding what we can best at, believing in ourselves and working hard until success eventually turns up.
Collins and his crack team of researchers say they swam through stacks of business literature in search of info on how to pull this feat off, and came up with a list of great companies that illustrate some concepts central to the puzzle.
That's not to say that other methods of inquiry are without merit --the Harvard Business Review makes pretty darn good use of case studies, for example-- but way too often Collins's great truths seemed like square pegs crammed into round holes, because a round hole is what he wants.
People in fields like Industrial-Organizational Psychology and Organizational Development have been studying, scientifically, what great leaders do and how to do it for decades.
Collins finds the main reason certain companies become great is they narrowly focus the company’s resources on their field of key competence.عنوانها: از خوب به عالی؛ از عرش به فرش؛ انتخاب برتری ؛ انتخاب عالی، مترجم: عهدیه عبادی؛ با انتخاب خود بزرگ شوید؛ با انتخاب خود مهم شوید مترجم: متین عربلو؛ بهتر از خوب، مترجم: فضل الله امینی؛ تعالی مبنی بر انتخاب صحیح، مترجمین: حسن زارعی ثمین، بهزاد محمدیان، مهدی شعله؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیستم ماه فوریه سال 2006 میلادیعنوان: از خوب به عالی : چرا برخی از شرکتها جهش میکنند...
Here are Jim Collins' seven characteristics of companies that went "from good to great"1.
It seems to me that there is a strong hindsight bias and a lot of uncertainty as to whether or not all 'good' companies would become 'great' by simply following Collins' advice.3.
As psychologists have pointed out in books such as "The Invisible Gorilla" and "Thinking Fast, Thinking Slow" - even aiming at "Good to Great" specifically - many business books tend to mistake a personal success story or numerous personal stories as a causal relationship that can be reproduced by anybody when in reality the more likely explanation was that they benefited from a lot of luck and there isn't a simple process of 'do x and you will receive y'.4.
Why Indie Authors Should Read Business BooksI am finally pursuing my lifelong passion of becoming an author, and writing is a business, so I needed to invest in myself.
What we write will last and it's our responsibility to build something from it so people actually give a damn about our work long after we are gone.
The lessons in this book teach a person how to develop a strategy, how to build a team, the importance of being disciplined, and the importance of managing expectations.The Hedgehog Concept is something creatives should be able to maneuver to their advantage.
People often ask,"what motivates you to undertake these huge research projects?"It's a good question.
"Retain faith that you will prevail in the end, regardless of the difficulties.....And at the same time ......Confront the most brutal facts of your current reality, whatever they might be."The research done for this book may have taken huge amount of resources and time and people energy, but the key elements of greatness are deceptively simple and straightforward.If you are thinking after reading the title of this book.....Why greatness?Then the book says, it's almost a nonsense question.
Many of the suggestions the author gives seem very logical -- don't have negative people work for your company, don't try to put your hand in every pot, don't stop doing things that work well and do stop doing things that aren't working, etc.I had two major concerns with this book.
Indeed, Collins later predicts, at the end of his book, that any company that STOPS abiding by the principles he outlines will fail.
How can a private company measure greatness if that is the standard?So, overall, I enjoyed this book at the beginning and became bored with it by the end.
I even found that re-reading this book helped me to realize I was being quite undisciplined in my use of time (trying to create momentum by doing, doing, doing instead of "unplugging extraneous junk.") But I don't think Collins has found the gospel and he plays it up to that level.I started reading it and then gave it to my boss.
Fewer great people on the team are better than lots of mediocre people.
It's easier to be great than good.Another interesting concept I've been told about, but haven't read about yet, is the flywheel.
Reading this book wasn't a very good use of my time.Tips from the book:First Who, then WhatFirst, get the right people on the bus (and the wrong people off it), then figure out where to drive.
All you have to do is keep from de-motivating them.The Hedgehog ConceptTo become great, use the Hedgehog Concept: concentrate on the point of intersection between what you are passionate about, what you can be the best in the world at, and what drives your economic engine.
"Stop doing" lists are more important than "to do" lists.Technology AcceleratorsDoes the technology fit directly with your Hedgehog Concept?
Oh, I’m jumping ahead too quickly – but that, in a nutshell, is probably one of my main concerns with books like this – organisations are essentially collections of people engaged in complex interactions, and so psychology (that is, a science focused on the individual) is quite likely to miss the point.
And this is hardly surprising, since a book that focuses our attention on how 'leadership' accounts for a businesses success is hardly going to move too far beyond 'psychology'.The book finds that these companies all shared seven characteristics.
You can’t just say, “Hire good people.” It’s better to say you have to get the right people on the bus, and further, that the right people have to be in the right seats.
Choosing the perfect metaphor is part of what separates the business-writing cream from the chaff.* Common sense is good, but for variety, a few counterintuitive insights should be included, too.
I’m no expert, but it’s probably good for its type.What I can’t decide is whether the book’s research methodology was effective or not.
A five year research study dedicated to analyzing the results of its own sampling bias without realizing it and puffed up with so much unnecessary fluff that the essence of the book could have been distilled on the front cover in a few bullet points under the title and it would have probably still been considered a waste of time to read.
nhà lãnh đạo cấp 5 dùng WE, không vỗ ngực xưng I.Song khi gặp thất bại ê chề, họ SOI GƯƠNG và nhận lỗi về mình, lúc này họ dùng I, ko đỗ lỗi, trách móc, mà I'm responsiblity for our mistakes.(2) Con người đi trước - công việc theo sauĐiều quan trọng là chọn đúng người lên xe, mời người ko phù hợp xuống xe, đặt đúng người phù hợp vào đúng vị trí, rồi tiếp đó mới đến NÀO CHÚNG TA ĐI ĐÂU ĐÂY.
With this singular lesson in mind you can now unlock the secrets of all business and marketing books: the lesson isn't printed on the page, it's between the lines.
If there's an upside to all this I think it's in the true power of a 'business' book; It energizes a group of people to do what they already know how to do and want to do.
The stories are true, but there's no business lesson here that you don't already know.
OK, so I'm making my way through this book... painfully, slowly, pyromaniacly.... and, I do have to say it is FANTASTIC if you find yourself surrounded by people without common sense. Of course, I don't have a business degree... oh, wait, I'm not supposed to have common sense.Anyways, now that I've trailed off into ADD tangents, my boss gave me this book to read and I do like the principles. I have one thing to say: way better than the teaching books I used to have to read. GEESH!
2 ⭐'s: Read the chapter list, that may be all you need.General run-of-the-mill business book full of generic platitudes, and slightly annoying catch phrases (hello Hedgehog, Flywheel, and BHAG (Big Hairy Audacious Goal)). Vague themes seem intended for mass appeal, as opposed to providing any practical advice.To save you time, here are the chapters:1) Good is the Enemy of Great2) Level 5 Leadership3) First Who, Then What4) Confront the Brutal Facts (Yet Never Lose Faith)5) The Hedgehog Concept (
Vague themes seem intended for mass appeal, as opposed to providing any practical advice.To save you time, here are the chapters:1) Good is the Enemy of Great2) Level 5 Leadership3) First Who, Then What4) Confront the Brutal Facts (Yet Never Lose Faith)5) The Hedgehog Concept (Simplicity Within the Three Circles)6) A Culture of Discipline 7) Technology Accelerators8) The Flywheel and the Doom Loop9) From Good to Great to Built to LastMaybe if this is one of the first business books you've ever read it will hold more water.
If you haven't, then maybe you might be interested in how certain companies manage to turn from good to great (i.e., from reasonable profit to outstanding performances that outshine established market leaders).
Well, you should, because the golden rules presented in this book can be applied to almost all aspects of life.Alec, who is responsible for buying this book*, commented on the second rule of good-to-great companies: first find the right people, THEN figure out what you want to do.
(Once again, I think our embarrassingly self-inflated Silvio Berlusconi.)*Alec didn't buy Good to Great to test our home finances.
کتابی که نمی توان آن را به عنوان سرلوحه پیشرفت قرار داد اما می توان از نکات خوب و آموزنده آن به شرط بومی سازی بهره فراوان برد
Every day, a fox thinks of strategies to hunt the hedgehog and bides its most opportune chance.
However, when the fox attacks the hedgehog, the hedgehog will curl itself into a ball to protect itself.
The fox ultimately fails and returns home to think of a new plan.
Great organizations are like the hedgehog.
Like the hedgehog, great organizations think of easy, effective,impactful action plans in the simplest methods.
According to Collins, the hedgehog’s strategy concept of focusing on a single plan is born from understanding one’s own identity with accuracy and depth.
Well I read Good to Great and ya know what? I liked it. It had a lot to say on how to build a business from scratch and turn it into a thriving success. It was an easily digestible piece full of useful tidbits I hope to apply to my every day life as an author. I need to surround myself with the right team, focus on my goal, remain disciplined/not chase fads, and manage my expectations. Sounds easy enough right?
Too much chart and graph to be reader friendly, but overall great book for anyone who wants to become a good leader within an organization
So don't bother spending time on team building exercises or trying to motivate people; instead, manage the system, get results, and that will get the team to bond and be motivated.While I agree with many of these principles, I don't find the research convincing that (a) it is precisely these characteristics that are necessary to go from good to great or (b) that even if these are the right characteristics, that they apply to the vast majority of companies.
Good is the enemy of the great.
Why put in all that discipline to go from good to great?
I thought the advice was worth applying for the first half, but then I got to the point that said, "Figure out what you can be best in the world at.
Only the best is good enough?
The world is full of many, many second-bests, and we get along just fine.Perhaps it's incorrect for me to try to apply these principles, which are meant for businesses, to my life as an individual.
I really did want to become great.
I finally got around to reading Good to Great.
While it was less true here than in some other business books, it's still longer than it needs to be.
2. A few of the ideas put forth -- e.g., the hedgehog concept, the three circles -- are brilliant observations, but, to my way of thinking, still require a certain kind of magic or special sauce that cannot be found by adhering to a set of principles.
I guess what I'm saying is that while the ideas are great, they can only go so far in helping put your business on the right track.
Jim Collins is absolutely the best narrator.
Main concepts to remember:- Hedgehog concept: Better than anyone, interested in more than anything else, best paid- You need to spend time and energy to define you hedgehog.- First who, then what- Discipline is the key.
Momentum is not created overnight.
- Level 5 leadership: You being great is not enough, you caring for others make you and your company great - Right people on the right seat, wrong people off the bus.
You're ruining your and their time and life if you know a person is in wrong place, wrong seat.
I read this in a leadership class and it was very appropriate.
I will never be the CEO of a major company, but I will help run a household, participate in a church family, help lead a therapy team, and will have many more opportunities to lead.
This book gave a lot of insight into why companies are able to climb in growth and industry, but that same insight can be applied in most of life circumstances where people are grouped together.
I recommended this book to multiple people working in large companies, but also to my pastor at the time.
این شرکت ها بر اساس معیارهای مشخصی انتخاب شده اند که سابقه فعالیت سی ساله، عملکرد پایدار و ثابت در طول پانزده سال و ارزش سهام سه برابر بازار بورس از جمله آنها است.
بسیاری از این شرکت ها در مرز ورشکستگی بوده اند اما با رهبری یک فرد مناسب و با تمرکز بر روی یک فعالیت خاص و کمی خلاقیت و طی کردن زمانی نسبتا طولانی مثلا ده یا بیست سال توانسته اند به سطح عالی برسند.
Enjoyed the data and numbers that help build the message. Only companies that are constantly morphing into new organizations to keep with the times survive in the long run.
Change your CEO from one at Level 5 to one at Level 4 and look out below!I firmly believe that success starts and ends with leadership - and the best companies I've worked with and for have actually had many of the above factors, because they had great management.
During their lives, they often get caught up in their own personal dramas, which gets them off course.The value in books like Good to Great, and almost any business book I've read, is to remind companies of what they already know, but forgot.
Джеймс Коллінс і команда зробили дуже цікаве дослідження (і написали/озвучили доступну книжку!) про розвиток, успіх, злети і падіння компаній.
Як і інші адекватні книжки про організації та менеджмент ( High Output Management,  The One Minute Manager), Джеймс пише про очевидні речі, але розказує про приклади того, як, насправді, складно дотримуватись таких базових практик.Спочатку хотів просто написати кілька речень про книжку і все, та подумав, що буде краще написати головні ідеї так, як вони запам'ятались мені.
- flywheel: "проривний успіх" -- це часто момент, коли публіка про нього чує.
Зсередини компанії "проривний успіх" часто виглядає як просто ще одна сходинка на сходах.Висновок: 5+.
