https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/540187.Theology_for_Beginners
Theology, after all, being 'the study of' God -- the most impenetrable mystery of all time -- it now amazes me Mr. Sheed has made this book as accessible as he has.
There were many things I liked about this book including the explanation of spirit/soul/body and their relationship(s) to each other.
The whole spirit-soul 'thing' actually made sense after reading this explanation, spirit being not only a key word, but the key word.
It 'is the element in us by which we know and love, by which we therefore decide.' Souls, on the other hand are marvellous and they animate the bodies, the life-principles, of all living things including plants and animals.
As Frank Sheed points out, many Catholics love and practice their religion, but most are illiterate when it comes to understanding some of the basic tenets of the Faith.
Theology for Beginners addresses this problem.Every Catholic should reacquaint themselves with the Faith: the Persons of the Trinity; the doctrine of the Immaculate Conception; Heaven, Hell and Purgatory; the Sacraments, etc.
Everything relevant to being a Catholic is mentioned in this short book.
It is paradoxical in that it is complex, yet simple, in approach and content.
Then again, the greatest paradoxes often contain the most beauty and truth.A cursory glance at the table of contents may lead the reader to believe that he is sufficiently knowledgeable about the subjects under discussion.
Despite prior knowledge, I found that I grew in understanding because of the philosophical bent of the material.
It provides, therefore, a deeper understanding of that which we may already "know".
Theology is the greatest and truest form of philosophy, and this is a wonderful example of it.
The book begins with a chapter on why we should study theology, and to summarize Sheed, it is because the truth is food for us and light for us.
We are then treated to lessons on the Trinity, Creation, the Nature of Man, Redemption, the Redeemer, Mary, the Sacraments, the Eucharist, and the Next Life.One of the most interesting chapters in this book dealt with the Fall.
With Adam's fall that resulted from Satan's temptation, man had broken his union with God and he was supernaturally dead.
It exists because of Satan and the angels Fall.
Man sends himself there by choosing self-love over love of God. Thankfully, Hell is not our only possible destination.
This book was a great introduction. It is short, 186 pages, but don't be misled; read them slowly. He does an excellent job of marking off the geography to be covered by Theology but does not delve too deeply into any single topic. The book is filled with facts and observations which will cause you to stop and really think.I would recommend reading this book prior to taking on the catechism of the Catholic Church; it will give the reader the necessary hooks on which to hang the concepts from the much larger volume.
This book could be easily read in a week or so, but you could also linger over it's contents for months.
For others it could be the only theology book they ever need.
Sheed calls for all Christians to become better informed about their faith, and this book is his offering to assist them.
The uninstructed Christian, says Sheed, is "stumbling along in the dark not even aware that it is dark, half-fed and not even hungry for more..." If you are "hungry for more" this book will feed your soul.
The title of this book says it all. Sheed has created the perfect introduction to Roman Catholic Theology for the average layman. Using logic, reason and excellent analogies, Sheed explains to the reader the basics on everything from Original Sin to the Eucharist. This book is the perfect prequel to his more lengthy volume, 'Theology and Sanity.' For anyone interested in doing an independent study of the Roman Catholic Faith, this book is the absolute best place to start.
loved it!
My first Frank Sheed. It will not be my last. This man has an incredible gift for distilling the truth. I learned so much. Now I need to reread it!
An excellent primer in theology for a Catholic layman. I feel more equipped to deal with tricky questions having read it. It is not too heavy either.
This is a good introductory text to the general beliefs of the Catholic faith.
That having been said, I cannot fully imagine how the ideas could have been better conveyed.
Theology is a very tough subject, and so far this is the most accessible book I've been able to find on it, at least in terms of the Catholic faith.The book is helpfully arranged into individual chapters that build off of one another to ease the transition into deeper topics.
Other chapters include one on the concept of the Trinity, on what happens after death, how to read the Bible, and why in general one should familiarize themselves with theology and its tenets.
This is an excellent starting point for delving into Catholic thought.
It is not an easy read, but only because the subject matter is hard.
When I first read this book, there were elements that I didn't quite understand, and claims that I did not necessarily accept.
If you're looking to start investigating Catholic theology and are frustrated to find that everything you read is either beyond your current knowledge level or is dumbed down too much to get you anywhere, this book just might be what you're looking for.
This should be required reading for all Catholics.
Sheed explains things I never knew needed explaining!
I needed clarification from my spiritual director on some things.
Here's a quote: "Man is made by God of nothing, is held in existence from moment to moment simply by God's will to hold him there.
God's will is the reason for man's existence; so God's will must be the law of his existence.
To disobey the law is sin; to think we can gain by disobeying it is insanity."
This book proved to be helpful in my getting a more in depth look at the Catholic religion. It was an enlightenment is many aspects.However, although it was printed in 2011, there were some faulty statements in the book. In one case, it was explained that only the priest celebrant could receive Holy Eucharist in both species, that is bread and wine. According to the book, all other could receive the host only. It seems the proofreading was in need of a second proofreader.
Sheed accomplishes just what he intends to do: convince the layman of the necessity of understanding fundamental Christian doctrines and set them forth with clarity and freshness of description. I really appreciate how much Sheed has reflected on the different topics. He has internalized them to make them more personal and express them more clearly. A bit dry toward the middle but overall thought provoking. I could see this as a good tool for group study and discussion.
A good introduction to the great mysteries of the Christian faith. Within these short 186 pages Frank Sheed brings light to many of the harder things to understand about our faith: the Trinity, Nature vs Person, the Soul, the Sacraments to name a few. Starting from who God is and ending with our final destination, Sheed walks us through the outline of what we need to know to be effective Christians.
This is a fine introduction to Catholic theology in which the late Frank Sheed offers an accessibly and very orthodoxexplanation of the Church's fundamental teachings. His way of explaining the Trinity - the central mystery of the Christian faith, yet one of the more difficult theological concepts to articulate - is especially noteworthy.
I am reading this now as a preparation for reading with my husband who is on his long road to confirmation.The for Beginners part is a bit misleading. It is indeed ideal for beginners and anyone who wants a lucid meditation on the fundamentals of the Catholic faith.I urge you, Molly to read it with us...
This was a good review of "Theology and Sanity" which I read a while back. I probably should have read this one first. I actually liked "Theology and Sanity" better, even though it was more difficult.
Excellent book. It provides pragmatic answers that are easy to understand. Every Catholic regardless of his/her vocation, should read this book and follow up the examples in the book. I would highly recommend this book.
A wonderful introduction to theology for Catholics. Sheed tells us the questions we should be asking and guides us to the answers. For a more comprehensive approach, try his "Theology and Sanity" which is equally good.
The newer edition has new cover design
Explained the Trinity well. Only touches on the other doctrines, but like the title suggests, it is a great start.
This has been sitting on my shelf for years and now that I am reading Theology and Sanity...I want to go back and read this book as well!
read portions while Wendy was teaching catechism; appeared quite good
Really good survey of basic theological truths and understandings.
One of the best books I've read so far on the topic of theology. It covers a lot of ground, but, as the title suggests, it is only the surface.
FANTASTIC introduction to basic Catholic theology. This is stuff you never learn in Church or at school but it is foundational to the faith. Highly recommended.
Because of this book, I will never doubt my faith again. Yeah, it's that good.
Great! If you have some theology background or none, this is the book for you. My mind was blown on each page with F. Sheeds insights.
