https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/461104.The_Ascent_of_Man
"It's said that science will dehumanize people and turn them into numbers.
This is where people were turned into numbers.
When people believe that they have absolute knowledge, with no test in reality, this is how they behave.
This is what men do when they aspire to the knowledge of gods.Science is a very human form of knowledge.
Every judgment in science stands on the edge of error and is personal.
Science is a tribute to what we can know although we are fallible.
We have to touch people."— 
Fifty years from now, if an understanding of man’s origins, his evolution, his history, his progress is not in the common place of the school books, we shall not exist. I watched this series right after finishing Kenneth Clark’s Civilisation, as I’d heard The Ascent of Man described as a companion piece. So like my review of Clark’s work, this review is about the documentary and not the book (though since the book is just a transcription of the series, I’m sure it applies to both). The Ascent o
Man alone leaves traces of what he created.”This brings Bronowski to one of his main points, one of the themes of this series: that art and science are not fundamentally different; rather, they are two manifestations of the human spirit.
The name of the last episode is “The Long Childhood.”One of my favorite sequences in this documentary is when Bronowski takes the viewer from the posts and lintels of the Greek temples, to the arches in the Roman aqueduct in Segovia, to the somewhat prettier arches in the Mezquita in Cordoba, to the cathedral at Reims with its magnificent flying buttresses.
THE ASCENT OF MAN. (1973; this ed. 2011). Jacob Bronowski. ****. It’s hard to believe that almost forty years ago I was watching this series on PBS. I immediately went out and bought the companion book to the series and read it straight through. This edition, published by The Folio Society, is a reprint of that edition with a new foreword by Mervyn Bragg, and was one of the presentation volumes for 2012 members. After reading it again, I found that some of its contents were slightly dated, but o
It’s hard to believe that almost forty years ago I was watching this series on PBS.
I immediately went out and bought the companion book to the series and read it straight through.
After reading it again, I found that some of its contents were slightly dated, but only because there had been progress in certain sciences that made some of the author’s previous conclusions out-dated.
Aside from that, this volume provides an excellent history of the development of intellectual progress that led to man being what he is today.
It was a pleasure to re-read this book again.
Brilliant. This book inspired me in a way that I've never been before. What is explained by the man, is nothing short of crystal clear descriptions of Humankind's physical, scientific, sociological and theological discoveries from the very first roaming tribes to our modern era. It is presented, stripped of the wordy, overly philosophical ramblings and data heavy meanderings found in other books that cover similar subject matter. Concise, endearing, earthy, genius. A must for anybody who needs a refresher course on general science, anthropology, physics etc.
Indeed, several human branches did die out, including the Neanderthal, and if a new book on this topic were to be written, I’d like to see more attention paid to the possible reasons for these demises.He does make the valid point that our weakness, as well as our strength, lay in the fact that we were not nearly as shaped by our environment as other animals were, honed over time into a perfect fit with those things we ate and those that would eat us.
It certainly reads like a BBC documentary, with a tediously slow and pompous prose that works better for television narration by David Attenborough or indeed Jacob Bronowski than for a book.It sets out to give an overview of the whole of human history, briefly going over our biological evolution, and then covering in some detail our cultural evolution.It's worth noting that Bronowski isn't, despite what seems to be a sincere effort, a biologist, historian, or anthropologist, but a mathematician with a background in physics.

Powerful stuff...consistently sublime segues between chapters, historical periods and theories. At least a dozen phenomenal insights into several anthropological mainstays. A manner of metaphor and analogy that distills entire theses into a single, resonant sentence. Humility of expression and thought twinned with a generosity of spirit keep the subject in the spotlight throughout whilst the narrator discretely maintains the tempo unseen, offstage.As suitable for the adept as it is for either the dilettante or the debutante. Bronowski unveils his formidable, but never alienating, intellect. Top marks.
Based on the BBC television series of the same name, The Ascent of Man charts the development of human civilization through the lens of scientific progress.
But, as the chapter titles suggest, the book is not so much concerned with presenting up-to-date facts as with creating "a philosophy for the twentieth century which shall be all of one piece" (from the Foreword).
Related to this, Bronowski deplores what he calls "the aristocracy of the intellect," scientists who move away from the needs of people, and into the arms of government, industry and corporations.

A marvelous study of man’s rise shown through the lens of scientific discoveries. Written for the intelligent layman, and the basis of the lauded TV series, this is an essential book for anyone interested in the evolution of science.
The reason why I'm reviewing it is because there are numerous errors in the first chapter that make this a problematic read.
These errors have to do with human evolution.
And the mistakes that would not be blamed on the time of writing made me unable to feel comfortable with what else I might find in the book, perhaps errors that I didn't recognize as errors.An added disappointment is that there is a foreword by Richard Dawkins written in 2011.
Dawkins certainly would have recognized these errors, which makes me suspect that he didn't actually read the book.

Yazar, kitabı iki temel sorunun üzerine inşa etmiş:1- Neden diğer türler değil de insan bu derece yükseldi?2- Bu yükselmede lokomotifliği kim yaptı?Kitap boyunca bu sorulara yanıtlar arıyoruz ve bunları tartışıyoruz.
Zira, bu kitap bir evrim tarihi değil, bir "bilim tarihi" olarak kabul edilebilir.Kitapta yazarın düştüğü birkaç tuzak olduğunu düşünüyorum.
Oysa evrim; yahut da doğal seçilim çizgisel bir şey olarak görünse de; aslında her zaman böyle değildir.
sayfada Lorenzo Ghiberti'yi perspektif okulunda "öncül" olarak anlattığı bölümde, Lorenzo'nun Alhazen'in "Optik Bilimi" isimli kitabına şerh yazdığını da ağzından kaçırır yazar.
Bu elim olay bile bir sayfada kısaca anlatılıp geçiştirilmiştir.Kitabın Batı merkezci tarih yazımıyla yazıldığını düşünüyorum.
The instructor was obsessed with Jacob Bronowski, so he played many, if not all of the documentary episodes that went along with the book, probably so he could sit in the corner and hide his boner (c'mon, the course was called "The Ascent of Man" fer chrissakes.
And don't even act like you never had to hide a boner in college).
Years later, when those cheap bastards at Half-Price Books offered me a quarter for my still-in-plastic-$16.95-cover-price copy, I counter-offered a few suggestions as to what they could do with their quarter and went home and finally opened it and read the damned thing.
اگر در تمام زندگي ميونه خوبي با علم نداشتين و مي خواهيد در طول يك كتاب با علم و فلسفه علم به زبان ساده آشنا بشيد و خلاصه اي از سير تمدن بشر را مطالعه كنيد ، اين كتاب رو توصيه مي كنم "عروج انسان اثر برونوسكي"
The ascent of man is of cultural complexity.
Biology is not important in order to make the human being understand his role in perpetuating the knowledge he is responsible for transmitting, generation after generation.
Although the modern human has been around for half a million years, it seems that we’ve only started leaving our mark very recently.
And that was the fundamentally main problem with Men: in order to develop a cultural body of work, we need to settle down.
Should we stay, or should we go?The Ascent of Man Bronowsky talks eloquently about is one of extreme courage and wit.
This book is based on a television documentary series produced in 1973 by the BBC in association with Time-Life Films.
Above all, the function of women is to produce men-children; too many she-children are an immediate misfortune, because in the long run they threaten disaster.
For example, the women among the Bakhtiari bake bread ....
"In the middle of the paragraph Bronowski makes a stunning statement - having lots of girls is both an immediate and long term disaster to these tribes.
Perhaps this style of writing is a result of the book being modeled on the spoken transcript of the televison show.
Originally published on my blog here in August 2001.Like Kenneth Clarke's Civilisation, The Ascent of Man is a series looked up to by every producer of factual, educational TV programmes.
It probably wouldn't get made today, as its broad canvas is not really fashionable, and it is not about ordinary people.
Its subject is the history of science, far removed from the pseudo-anthropology of "Reality TV".The arrangement of material is a little unusual; it is basically thematic, each chapter tracking a particular subject (evolution, or the structure of matter, say) to modern times.
La primera, esa especie de idolatría a «Los Grandes Hombres de la Ciencia»; entiendo el mérito que tiene lo que hicieron y entiendo que a veces no es tan fácil separar a la persona de sus logros, pero no sé si el autor del libro ha encontrado el equilibrio adecuado (o sí yo es que soy muy irritable con estas cosas).
La segunda, es que como mujer (sí, ya empezamos) no he podido evitar sentirme como algo ajeno a ese ascenso del hombre (aham); no creo que el título sea una infeliz casualidad, o la cantidad de veces que aparece la palabra "hombre" haciendo referencia al ser humano en su totalidad.
Excellent book about the story of mankind not too dissimilar from Jared diamonds guns germs and steel.
Then the book really begins by exploring a whole whose of subjects like: food, nomad cultures, structures and architecture, fire, metals, numbers, islam and the rise of Europe through the renaissance and the industrial revolution.
There is lots more that I have missed no doubt a really really interesting book that was made into a BBC series also and definitely worth a read.
Lots of pictures also to keep you amused and though it’s quite a large book you do fly through it.
It's full of fascinating facts and stories from our past.
It's our story.
I’ve heard about all of them but I found so many amazing details from their lives and how they all were connected.I give the book 4 stars because at some moments you realise that the book was not really written as a book but as material for the TV series.
At several moments I felt that he should have gone into more details and better explain his ideas.Overall, I would definitely recommend this book to anybody interested in history of the mankind and our civilization.

الكتاب عندي 257 صفحة فقط ..
بعد أن انتهيت وذهلت أستطيع أن أقول أنه نسخة أصغر فلسفياً وشمولاً لكنها أمتع أدبياً من كتاب كيف تغير العالم لجيمس بيرك ..
عصر ثورة العلم وإنجازاته ..
ثم عصر النهضة تناول قفزاته المذهلة بتركيز أكثر.
في النهاية توصل إلى ذات النتيجة "من بين أهداف العلوم الفيزيقية تقديم صورة دقيقة للعالم المادي ..
ومن بين منجزات الفيزيقيا في القرن العشرين إثبات أن هذا الهدف لا يمكن تحقيقه" في هذا تعرفت على قصص العلماء خلف الكواليس الإنسانية والمشبعة بالحس والتي لم تكن لتظهر مع جمود منجزاتهم وتجردها .
It is a broad-brush survey of man’s cultural evolution, although his biological evolution is covered in the first chapter.
Since the book was written in 1973, there obviously has been much learned on the subject since then, especially in biological evolution.
What is most impressive about this book is the demonstration of JB’s wide-ranging overview of his subject matter.
I can remember seeing the series on TV and being impressed with JB’s breadth of knowledge.
I would give this book a 9 out of 10 on my personal rating system.
A whirlwind tour of human history, the development of society and culture, and the importance of intellectual freedom. This is a great book if you're interested in the roles of science, art, and ingenuity in our world. The author's breadth of knowledge is unparalleled, and it shows through as he constructs themes that tie science and mathematics together with the arts to become one cohesive perspective on what it means to be human.
Being the inspiration for Carl Sagan's Cosmos, this book and the TV series that it is a companion to are the inspiration to my inspiration. And boy, what an inspiration it is. Very few presenters can match Bronowski's talent for putting a human touch in science, and for showing that there is and should be no wall separating science and the other noble projects of humanity such as art and ethics.
Pleasant and quick to read, this is mainly aimed at a very large audience -it's actually based on a docu' TV. That means, of course, that it's very basic and simple. More, so much has been published on the topic since then that, even though it's a precursor in its genre there's not a lot to learn here. A good read none-the-less.
This book feels a bit aged (it's published approx 1972). It does a good job of telling the story of how we got here, but doesn't really want to address the "why" question, despite exuding a boundless optimism that the direction we're going is "right".
قرأته في طبعة سلسلة "عالم المعرفة" الكويتية، تحت عنوان ارتقاء الإنسان، ترجمة موفق شخاشيرو وترجمة زهير الكرمي. الكتاب غاية في الجمال والبساطة. رحلة في تاريخ العلوم متعرضاً لفلسفتها، مقترباً من الخط الفاصل الذي يميزنا كبشر عن سائر مخلوقات هذا الكون.
