https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/176802.Winds_of_Change
http://bookslifewine.com/r-winds-of-c...Note: There will be light spoilers for  Winds of Fate  in this review. Please read Winds of Fate prior to reading this review.The ending of Winds of Fate left the K'Sheyna Vale and its inhabitants in chaos. Darkwind's father, Starblade, has been freed from Mornelithe Falconsbane's control but still deeply damaged. Nyara - Falconsbane's abused daughter - has gone into hiding with Need and the gryphlets have been cleansed from Falconsbane's taint. Unfortunat
Unfortunately, Falconsbane is still alive, the Heartstone is still damaged and damaging, and Ancar of Hardon is still trying to consume Valdemar.Elspeth, Skif, the Companions and the Shaman Tre'valen all are sworn in as Wing-Sib[lings] (they become members of the clan) and pledge their assistance with healing the Heartstone.
A lot of action takes place in Winds of Change: K’Sheyna Vale reaches out for help with the Heartstone and receive Firesong K’Treva, an immensely powerful and creative Healing Adept.
Surprisingly, it’s my favorite book in the Mage Winds trilogy.
Perhaps reading this one straight after the first was a mistake... this instalment was full of contradictions which constantly frustrated me. The writing continued to be simplistic which, again, was so at odds with the adult content. The inner dialogues of the characters in no way matched their age.... i could go on. It’s such a shame as the world was super interesting and had lots of potential. Sadly the execution let it down.

I haven’t been this excited about a couple in literature since Vanyel and Tylendel / Stefen from The Last Herald Mage trilogy, which was, ironically enough, written by the same author as The Mage Winds trilogy!
Or maybe because the world of Valdemar is a magical universe and so much of the coupling comes from the powers around the characters… I can’t put my finger on it, but suffice it to say: Romeo and Juliet- you two could learn a thing or two from couples like Elspeth and Darkwind, or Vanyel and Stefen.
Herald-Heiress Elspeth and her companion Herald Skif with their Companions, Gwyna & Cymry, are at K'Sheyna Vale & have been made wingsibs.
But he likes to tease Darkwind about his attraction to Elspeth, which is a joy.
Darkwind and Elspeth have encountered their first Changechild Dark Mage.
Next is Elspeth and Darkwind moving a very pregnant basilisk.
Need is teaching her as well.It appears Gwyna has been holding back some secrets from Elspeth.
Darkwind is still very much attracted to Elspeth and she, he feels has not been acting 'Princess-like'.
I believe Elspeth feels same.
Elspeth & Darkwind have made love.
Leareth’s presence in that trilogy could have been easily contained within those earlier three books, but Lackey chose to bring him back, a mere mention that spoke volumes.And fortunately, that isn’t something that fell prey to the numerous internal inconsistencies within the Heralds of Valdemar series.Falconsbane/Ma’ar is definitely a fascinating character, once that I’ll probably talk about in depth after I finish the trilogy proper.
It may not be one of my favourites, but it is fascinating, and essential to understanding a good deal of the history of the world that Lackey sets up.
But aside from that, I actually liked him a lot, and I especially enjoyed how much he annoyed Darkwind.I have conflicted feelings about Nyara, there's a lot of fetishizing and Healing away of trauma, but on the other hand, her arc and her growth is really satisfying, and she stands alone in the sections devoted to her really well.
Overall worth reading, but I definitely prefer other books by Lackey over this one.
I read the first book in this series first 20 years ago, when I was a teenager, and then again in 2008, on a whim.
I always meant to get around to reading the rest of the series, but something always came up, so I didn't manage to get to it until now.For all that this book is quite adult in its content, it also has an air of childishness to it.
This series seems to be nothing too serious and makes for some good light reading, especially in between more serious works when you need a break from darker material.
I had some major issues with this novel far more than I usually have with the Valdemar novels.The character of Elsbeth was written like a spoiled brat Mary Sue. First of all, all her angst about her place and her duty did not ring true for a young woman her age who has been a herald for sometime and has seen war.
The Mary Sue came in with the whole becoming an adept mage in less then a year.
Please in all the other stories it takes years for a mage to make adept status.
The writing is substantially more even - we spend less time in Darkwind's head, which is the main problem with the earlier book.
The stupid jealousy subplots are present and just as stupid - this is one of my chief pet peeves, the plot where lovers work themselves into a tizzy assuming their lover is attracted to someone else, when the reader - having access to everyone's head - knows that this is totally not the case.
Total waste of my time.Speaking of wastes of time, the villain doesn't make an appearance until 350 pages in.
The book is basically a training montage for the various characters.
I read this the first time when I was reading all the Valdemar books back in college.
I've reread Talia and Vanyel's series since then but not Elspeth's.
I enjoyed this book and the four stars is for nostalgia.
If I were rating it as a new book, it'd be a 3.Having read it before, it's hard to accurately review but the plot was enjoyable and I enjoyed Darkwind and Elspeth's relationship.
I'm looking forward to rereading the 3rd in the series as well.I read the ebook version from B&N.
When the gryphons speak especially it was hard to read when double r's were converted to m's instead.
Lackey is one of my favorite authors ever! I started reading her in 8th grade but I will still pull out her books to reread them. Her character building is really her main strength – you want to meet her characters – which is probably why I always reach for her books as a pick-me-up, it’s like talking to old friends. Another trilogy, events occur after the "Arrows" trilogy and Lackey's writing style improves quite a bit. The reason I gave it three stars is because I have a soft sport for her earlier work!
Good story, WORST COPYEDIT EVERI picked this series up for nostalgia's sake; I first read it years ago, and the writing and story mostly hold up.The EDITING though, is TERRIBLE. Whoever put these books together for e-book sale should be fired. Words misspelled everywhere, with a significant predisposition towards conflating "r"s with the following letter, e's with c's and other problems. It happens thought Lackey's series and is annoying enough that I doubt I'll buy another one of her books digitally. Happily, not the case with her print books.
I found the second book in the series to be predictable with uninteresting characters. Unfortunately, Elspeth's tale is just not as compelling as the original Valdemar series.
Wat interests me about the survivors of the evil Mage Falconbane is the pairing Lackey does of a tribal leader, Darkwind's father, and Falconbane's own daughter, Nyara.
It's a place in fiction that makes it clear that power and rank are no defense against evil or internal scars.
And it's here that we learn of Need's backstory, which is a good one.While Nyara is sorting herself out Elspeth is dealing with her own demons of privilege and entitlement.
Instead you have to fill the book with marching the characters from Point A to Point B, without a satisfying conclusion.I'm glad to report that Lackey, who is a professional when it comes to plotting, largely manages after the excitement of "Winds of Fate" to avoid the middle-book sag in "Winds of Change," and craft an thrilling tale of adventure and romance.Indeed, I remember being extremely impressed when I first read Lackey's books as a teenager at how neatly everything fit together--and impressed, in a slightly different way, when I reread them later once I knew a little more about plot construction, and recognized all kinds of tricks of structure and foreshadowing.
This book was great! We got to see more of the character's backstories and watch them progress. The story line was well built and didn't feel like it was reaching, like many second books do. I liked that we got to see more of the character's thoughts. The only thing I didn't like was that the ending seemed a bit rushed. There was this big built up and plan and then it was all over without anything going wrong in a matter of about 2 pages. But other than that, I loved it! Great story, great writing, great characters.
"Few people are good judges of their own heart."I love the plotline of this series, I love the Vale and it's people, and the Companions and the gryphons. But I still hate Elspeth. She's so spoiled, but in a different way that in the Arrows of the Queen trilogy. She thinks she the best and it's her way or no way. It's only towards the later half of this book that I start to actually not hating reading things from her POV and hearing her speak.
I loved the continuation of Elspeth's story. Again, the pacing of the story gets me irritated every time I read this one and I just want the romance to be the background, not the foreground of the story.The addition of the kestrachern and Firesong bring depth to the world outside of Valdemar. A great read and very interesting to see more of Mornelithe and his history.
Winds of ChangeElspeth and Darkwind have become close and work magic together. There love for each other has grown. But the power of the heartstone did not go to the location of the new vale. Nyara has found love with Skif.
Magical ChangesGreat love story among all the action was wild and free. Surprise Vanyel is hanging around they will need his help.
Will review soon at www.fantasyliterature.com.
This one definitely feels like a continuation of the previous in a lot of ways, which is fine. It's what I want once in a while.
I mean you know you have a problem when the first book was trash but you picked up the second anyway.
Good but a little irritatingI found this book 2 of the trilogy entertaining but the numerous transcription errors in the gryphons dialect were really offputting
More cheesy talking horse (and talking bird!) fantasy. Just what I need.
Woohoo, finally we get to see Elspeth and Darkwind get it on, after much tiptoeing around the issue.
Haha, I've been waiting one and a half books for this, because I expected it.
This book I obviously read much quicker than the last, due to it FINALLY being Friday, and the Friday I get four days off after.
I guess my reading motivation returned with a decent night's sleep!
I love these books, even knowing what will happen if not exactly how it will occur.
I only have one book left in this specific series, but many more across the set as a whole.
Depending on how it is done, it can be intended to move the story forward when the writer has "painted himself into a corner" and sees no other way out, to surprise the audience, to bring the tale to a happy ending, or as a comedic device.Now that I've started the 3rd book, there seems to me to be a lot of this deus ex machina.
Then again, I'm not sure that it's really deus ex machina that's bothering me about the series.
It does work within the books, the series and I do like the story but...
There are some new books added to the series since the last time I read them, so this re-reading project is pretty exciting for me since it will include these new volumes, and will be in a new order.
This trilogy really flows seamlessly from one book to the next, which is something of a relief, and certainly adds to my enjoyment in reading it.
And it continues to build nicely on events from books in the series set prior to this series in the Valdemar-chronology.
He manages to make sketches of characters that look very little like the descriptions of them in the book.
She is complaining about Skif but it seems like she is over reacting because it never shows what Skif is doing.
She is just thinking about things and it really doesn't sound like Skif is crushing on her at all.
It really just sounds like Skif being Skif.
Skif is a sneak thief.
It also feels like Mercedes Lackey couldn't really figure out what to do with Skif on this story line and maybe shouldn't have brought him along.
