https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/383179.Police_at_the_Funeral
This was published in the 1930s and we are told that Joyce had a job which she quit to go live in this old house in Cambridge with these awful people she owed nothing to, which I didn't understand since she seemed a pleasant and capable woman, but I guess that's plot convenience for you.
In any case, Joyce happens to be engaged to Marcus, a college friend of Campion's, and when one of her uncles goes missing he directs her to the detective, even though he thinks she is just being a sillyhead, you know how women are.
Joyce lives in Socrates Close, Cambridge, surrounded by the old, eccentric, Faraday family; headed by matriarch, Caroline Faraday, widow of a famous academic.
However, she refuses to admit she knows who the man was and this air of secrecy surrounds most of the inhabitants of Socrates Close, making it difficult for Campion to uncover the truth of events.This is an involved and fun mystery, with family secrets, mysterious deaths and strange events.
I liked the inhabitants of Socrates Close; including the imperious Great-Aunt Caroline, blustering Uncle William, the black sheep, Cousin George and others.
Our Albert actually does some hands-on detecting at the request of a friend of his grandmother's who knows his real name and identity, but divulges nothing.
Murder, drink, tramps and remittence men combine to induce hysteria in the maiden aunts at every turn.Allingham apparently had a penchant for Rosenberg's engravings; Campion had them in his flat in Vol 3, and now the American visiting professor (who talks like a Brit) has them in her study.
"Discomfort" is a noun, not a verb, but if they don't know that I won't be the one to tell them.
Interestingly she seems to realise there’s something faintly absurd about the notion of an aristocratic detective (according to my good friend Wikipedia, Albert Campion was created as a spoof of Lord Peter Wimsey), and there is almost a protean quality to her version – a bland man who hides behind his glasses and isn’t even comfortable using his real name.
Not that he isn’t a strong presence at the centre of the book, the reader is never allowed to forget that behind his vague expression is the sharpest mind in the room.A series of murders are committed amongst an old aristocratic family, which is ruled by an intimidating matriarch of the old school.
My first foray into Margery Allingham's world of Mr. Campion and it was a rather delightful trip.
I would call this a good old fashioned mystery....murders, a mansion, minimal clues and suspects galore among these quirky, oddball characters.
Mr. Campion, not a police detective but a rather over the top adventurist is right in the middle of the chaos...and in the end solves the crime.
Nothing earth shattering, no gore or graphic scenes, just good mystery writing.
The characters were well developed and the tension builds.
3* Mystery Mile (Albert Campion Mystery #2) 2* Death of a Ghost (Albert Campion Mystery #6) 2* Police at the Funeral (Albert Campion Mystery #4) TR The Crime at Black Dudley (Albert Campion Mystery #1) TR The Case of the Late Pig (Albert Campion Mystery #8)
Things go downhill rapidly, from there, however, and when the first murder victim is found the police must be called in.Campion moves into the house and finds that the atmosphere is not only cloying, it's lethal, as he strives to come to an understanding of this psychologically damaged - and dangerous!
Allingham's writing is, I have found, rather darker than Christie's, more psychologically dependent, and - beneath the foppish mask of the brainless-appearing Campion - very sharply observes society and the many sorts of people therein of the period.
After three books, for the first time, Allingham takes Campion out of the thriller genre and into a much more traditional manor house murder mystery.
Police at the Funeral comes at the end of an intense writing period for Allingham, which may explain the lackluster title; after this, she took a longer-than-usual break before the next in the series.
Had that been the case, it doubtless would have ended Mr. Campion's adventures on a very high note; this is a strong, assured piece of work, very engaging and well on-par with more famous mysteries of the period.
In this novel, Campion is called upon by the fiancée of an old friend to investigate the mysterious disappearance of one of her uncles.
It's not that Joyce Blount is all that fond of her uncle--he's a bitter, insulting man who has written a book exposing the family skeletons, but she is very afraid of the atmosphere in the family home and what might happen next.
And can Albert Campion and his friend Inspector Stanislaus Oates make their way through complex family dynamic to solve the mystery before the entire family is removed from the scene?
A time capsule of a book. a family under the thumb of a formidable matriarch starts to die in unexpected ways. Campion the gentlemen detetctive saunters out of a PG wodehouse novel to solve the crime. Now ussually the combination of anything even the slightest bit Bertram Wossterish and a crime thriller would be to put it mildly my gingerbread. In this case though it failed to grip, the humour wasnt funnz enough and the crimes were not thrilling enough. I did enjoy the trip in the time machine back to the 1930s though.
However, I stuck with it, knowing this author's skill with providing the reader with interesting characters and intriguing plots.Albert Campion, our hero detective, has had to come to the rescue of Inspector Stanislaus Oates more than once.
This time, he is asked to stay at the home of the prestigious Faraday family, ruled by a stern matriarch, Caroline Faraday.
The atmosphere inside the home (Socrates Close) is grim and depressing and the suspense builds with each character.
Who could have done away with poor Andrew Seeley?After two deaths and the threat of more, the undaunted Campion once again solves the case (and how he did it, I honestly don't know...
On a Margery Allingham list I'm on, someone accidently posted a message that was meant to go to a different Allingham list - one for group reads of the Campion books.
By the time he's been there a couple of days, Aunt Julia is dead under mysterious circumstances and Uncle William is under suspicion of murder.
As I said, I couldn't remember who the murderer was as I re-read Police at the Funeral.
This is a good book and I enjoyed spending time with Campion again.
There was just enough of a spin on the typical never-been to inspire both disdain and understanding, and by the end Allingham makes him quite endearing, if a little pathetic in his displays of genuine kindness.
The characters feel very real, or rather, sound real.
Not that I don't appreciate Sayers's more elaborate dialogue.One thing that bothered me a great deal, though I understand that people held different beliefs in the past that now seem abhorrent to most, was a minor reveal at the end.
I hope Campion continues to develop alongside a nice set of secondary characters.
We've barely seen him at all, I should very much like to read more adventures of him at Campion's side.
I am a big fan of Allingham's Campion books, particularly the early ones, so I was delighted when Goodreads alerted me to one I'd missed over the years, particularly one set in Cambridge, a city I'm very fond of.
But the problem I have with the book is that it has none of the charm of the other early Campions.
And for some reason Campion lacks his usual sparkle and entertaining inanity, cowed it seems by admiration for these horrendous people.If you are a Campion fan and haven't come across it, you will want to read it to add it to the list.
Police at the funeral by Margery Allingham is the 4th book featuring Albert Campion. Campion is asked to look into the disappearance of Andrew Faraday by an old friend. This soon becomes a murder case when Andrew's body is discovered shot and bound and then another member of the family is poisoned. A classic detective story with plenty of clues and red herring, competently solved by Campion leading to a satisfying and surprising conclusion. I enjoyed this book very much and will look for his other cases.
Moving out of the rarefied atmosphere of international crime rings, this is a English house mystery with a twist, chock-full of excessive characters. A couple of uncomfortable moments on the racism front, and quite a puzzler of a mystery.
I like the Albert Campion character, a lot. Unfortunately I didn't like ANY of the other characters in this book and a few of them I actively hated. It's hard to enjoy a book under those circumstances.
A haunting theme running through many of her books is nostalgia for the vanished Victorian world, which when Allingham was writing in the thirties had been obliterated by the First World War. Several of her stories feature old families in decline and ancient matriarchs clinging to the strictures of a bygone time.In this one, Albert Campion is called in by a friend from his Cambridge undergraduate days to allay the concerns of the friend's fiancee, who is serving as companion to her great aunt, an elderly grande dame presiding over a gloomy Cambridge household peopled by her son, two daughters and a nephew, all unsuccessful older adults trapped in a toxic miasma of rivalry and arrested development.
Albert Campion is asked to come to Cambridge by Joyce Blount, fiancée of his old University friend, as she is worried about the disappearance of her uncle Andrew.
Uncle Andrew's body is found in a nearby stream, and before long another murder shows that the whole family may be in danger.This is a lively and appealing Golden Age mystery, with a forbidding old house, a cast of eccentric characters and some clever red herrings.
Campion brings his own air of mystery with him, though we do get a few more glimpses of his origins, and he brings a likeable combination of brains and brawn to events.
"There's rank evil there," he went on unexpectedly fixing his bright eyes on the others face and speaking with an intense sincerity which finally removed any trace of his former frigidity.
"There they are, a family forty years out of date, all vigorous energetic people by temperament, all, save for the old lady, without their fair share of brains, and herded together in that great mausoleum of a house, tyrannised over by one of the most astounding personalities I've ever encountered.
The old lady holds the purse strings and is the first and final court of appeal.
A very good example of the country house murder, where clearly a member of the family is killing everyone else off. I loved all of it until the very end, where incredulous was the only word I could think of. It's very clever, but I can't be happy with such an unlikely series of events, especially the ease with which Campion broke the suspect down. Much too convenient for my taste. Still, 95% of the story was excellent.
It's been said that the Campion novels are usually "adventures" rather than true mysteries, but this one I'd say is clearly a mystery, the story of murder and progress to identification of the criminal. The real fun of the books for me consists in following the personalities, and there is not enough of that here. An enjoyable read but not up to the full magic of Campion.
But aside from all that which is all pretty great anyway – these old vintage mysteries from that period called the Golden Age of Crime, were proper well written novels, with interesting characters fully explored, they are wonderful period pieces.
Young Joyce Blount, engaged to a solicitor of Campion’s acquaintance, and distantly related to this odd collection of dependents, comes to consult Campion about the peculiar disappearance of her Uncle Andrew.
Joyce decides to stay in the house with her peculiar relatives – the three of them who are left – despite the worrying turn of events.Campion and Oates have much to unravel.
Perhaps…..There is a Cambridge setting, although, curiously, no great sense of place apart from in the wonderful opening chapter in London.There is a horrendous Victorian mansion set in aspic.There is a dysfunctional family providing a limited cast from which to choose a murderer.
There are policemen, competent and incompetent.And there is Campion, gloriously whimsical but not Wimsey or Poirot or Marple, not a detective but an Adventurer.And what does he do in this novel?
He detects, after a fashion.After all, as Holmes said “Once you have eliminated……..” That is what you have to do here.
Another in the Albert Campion mystery series -- it's in that comfortable genre place where everything is somewhat predictable but still enjoyable.
Unfortunately Allingham has a knack for picking quickie plot points that are insanely dated now -- it's almost uncanny.
In this one, Albert goes to investigate a series of murders taking place in Cambridge, all within an old and established family that is stuck in Victorian times.Grade: B-Recommended: I think you would need to be a stalwart fan of the Golden Age of manor house mysteries to truly enjoy this, but if you are, you will.2008/25
A much better story lies beneath the surface of the book I just read.
The flaw is that Allingham needed to bring Campion onto the scene--which distracts from a rather chilling and compelling story of the ways in which the "staid" constrictions of Edwardian life could result in an entire generation of profoundly psychologically damaged people.
The book is, of course, shot through with classism and racism that makes it difficult to stomach and suffers from not being willing to let the core story stand on its own.
Remove Cousin George from the story and a tighter and more chilling (and less racist) tale would remain.
Excellent story. Never would have guessed how it ended and who the culprit actually turned out to be. Well written although the middle section seemed to drag a bit and I was kind of getting bored then it turned really good and I couldn't wait to finish. Some of the old-fashioned ways of speaking were kind of hard for me to follow at times but I seemed to have gotten the gist.
Margery Allingham, I love you. This is my favorite Campion book so far. It has a distinct flavour of 1930s Georgette Heyer - her contemporary mysteries that have since become delightfully historical.
I liked this one especially! A fantastic sense of danger, thrill and mystery. Some of the characters were hilarious but you still had no idea who or what was behind it all.
This had some really, really creepy racial attitudes. Along with the recurrent eccentric household etc.
