https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30962053-the-idiot
This was an interesting novel, dense, unique, written from a very specific point of view.
One of those books where I marvel that it was published and am grateful it was published because, I mean, who wants to read the same type of book over and over?
I kept wanting her to just… get out of her own way but that she didn’t or, perhaps, couldn’t, could well be the point.
This is one of those novels that is just… utterly brilliant and not in an overt, gratuitous way.
Like I said, there are levels to this shit.
I probably read the second half of the book too quickly – I loved it so much, and wish I'd taken more time to savour it – but once I'd started, I just couldn't stop.The eponymous idiot is 18-year-old Harvard freshman Selin (though with all the Russian influences popping up throughout the story, the title is clearly intended to evoke Dostoyevsky's masterpiece.
(There's also something beautiful, and so refreshing, about love remaining unrequited in a narrative like this.) I'd love to quote lots from this book – I feel Selin's words would communicate the charm of the novel far better than I can by talking about it – but of course I can't, for now, because I read an advance copy.
She meets Ivan, an older Hungarian mathematics major, in one of her classes, and they begin something of a courtship that culminates in her traveling to Hungary that summer to be near him.It's basically a right of passage for a college-age girl to go through that phase where she falls in love with an intellectually exciting but emotionally inept asshole.
We go through every single step of Selin's first year of college and the summer following it, and much of the narrative and dialogue feels completely unnecessary.
Selin begins her tale with the line, 'I didn’t know what email was until I got to college.' Batuman is obsessed with liminality, or the state of being in between.
But I don't think about Selin or Ivan when I think about The Idiot.
Batuman has an incredibly dense prose style, in that she takes her influences and her references and she piles them up onto each other so that each paragraph is like a literary puff pastry.
At one point Batuman states that one characters reminds Selin of what Andre Breton's Nadja might look like.
The Idiot is a superb novel about a woman who is just lost.
NOTHING REALLY HAPPENS. IT'S LIKE KNAUSGÅRD BUT WITH HUNGARIANS.
At the same time, she does convincingly capture what it’s like to be young and confused about what you should be doing: “I couldn’t imagine how I was going to dispose of my body in space and time, every minute of every day, for the rest of my life … Just being alive felt like some incredibly long card game where you didn’t know if the point was to get cards or lose them, or what you had to do to get cards or lose them.” This reminded me of elements of my college years and study abroad experience; the familiarity plus the off-the-wall humor kept me reading with interest, even though this is a very long novel and not traditionally satisfying in terms of plot.Sample lines:“What was ‘Cinderella,’ if not an allegory for the fundamental unhappiness of shoe shopping?”“One afternoon in the library, I picked up Pablo Neruda’s ‘Ode to an Atom’ and started to read.
Library Overdrive Audiobook....read by the author Elif BatumanI loved this book.
I equally adored Elif Batuman’s seductively-innocent-child-sounding voice.
I had no idea what to expect.
The first time I looked at this book was a few weeks ago when in San Francisco with a Goodreads friends in Citylights book store.
I still haven’t read any reviews- all I knew was that this was a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction.
Who doesn’t remember their freshman year of college - if you went?
And college romance?
I thought this book was absolutely charming - funny - ADORABLE- kickass sassy-smart- reflective -and very ordinary and simple and the best of ways!!!!
I really hate when books with titles like The Idiot make me feel like I’m the person the title is referring to.
This book is either really smart or faux smart, and I don’t feel smart enough to figure out which of the two it is (though I’m kind of leaning towards “faux smart” to make myself feel better).
And in a way, I feel left out of the joke, like I just didn’t get it.
People who like to make fun of academia?
People who don’t like to make fun of academia?
I’m none of these things, and so ultimately The Idiot just isn’t for me.
We follow Selin who starts at Harvard college as a student of language, and we get to be inside her head when she observes the world, the people around her, the language they use, and the culture they come from.
It feels like we are living inside a bubble with her that doesn’t really allows for Selin to fully connect with the outside world, and oftentimes she comes across as quite ‘the idiot’.I am a language teacher and love all nuances of language as well as cultures.
Facebook BoundI knew I should have kept a diary after I left secondary school.
On the other hand if my diary was as tedious and banal as Batuman’s, I would have destroyed it as an embarrassing mistake.To say that The Idiot is pointless might sound severe.
Batuman writes grammatical sentences and believable dialogue.
But the sentences and dialogue drone on endlessly about whatever happened to be around in her young adult life.
I suppose that someone of a similar age, perhaps embarking on an educational adventure like Harvard and experiencing Paris for the first time, would find The Idiot instructive and even interesting.
Part of my warm feelings to this book must be because the author is reflecting so much of my own experience, that era (95-96) of life-changing technology and the normalization of the internet right at the gateway to college, with suddenly changing relationships and interactions, especially how email changed flirtations!
I am making this caveat clear because I am not sure, without this shared experience, that this novel would be as good for another reader.
I was less thrilled with where the novel went, as soon as Ivan arranged for Selin to teach English in Hungary.
Il libro non ha trama, è un susseguirsi di microeveventi che appartengono alla quotidianità piuttosto banale della protagonista, una matricola che si reca in un college prestigioso come Harvard.
Forse è proprio questo, però, che rende il libro così sperimentale e assurdo.
C'è una perfetta corrispondenza tra l'interiorità della protagonista e la struttura del romanzo.
Come degli status sui social, frammenti di una vita normalissima, una storia d'amore tra persone pretestuose, alla ricerca di un'autenticità difficile da ricreare; individui che per parlare di se stessi, cercano altre vie perché troppo chiuse nelle loro interiorità per essere sinceri.
Un'identità che probabilmente a 19 anni non si ha proprio.
I suppose it's appropriate that one of the recurring themes in Elif Batuman's The Idiot is the sensation of being trapped – in conversation, in a situation, in a location.
But once the story left Harvard, all traces of what made me get invested in it disappeared, and I was left slogging through a swamp of mundane details and dull conversations, each step forward making me wish I had closed the book when I had the chance.
The Idiot is a hard book to review, because everything about it comes down to personal taste.
There's no plot or narrative arc to speak of—the book just follows our narrator, 18-year-old Selin, as she goes through her first year of college and a summer abroad.
And with this novel, I was.Again, personal taste is a strong factor when it comes to The Idiot.
I understand not liking this because of the lack of plot, or because of an unwillingness to hang out with a Harvard freshman for 500 pages.
:-) Let's try to give a fair account of what this book is about: Selin is a freshman at Harvard, she tries to find her own path in life and her search strategy is highly influenced by the things she learns about language at school.
Full disclosure: I never had much sympathy for people who seem to want to crawl back to their high school (and mommy), because, like, college is, like, so hard and stuff.
Who wants to be surrounded by morons??).Other reviewers said that they liked how Batuman describes the rise of new media that coincides with Selin starting college.
This novel is a slow burn, but it's a pleasant warmth—not a scorching fire of excitement.
But it's not meant to be either.
Batuman has delivered a delightful, excruciatingly smart work of literary fiction that so perfectly captures the confusion of young love.
For anyone who has ever felt "different," or a bit separated from a common reality, THE IDIOT is in your wheelhouse.
Batuman is a writer's writer, giving us what our brain craves and doesn't waste our time with the cheap thrills that others demand in order to turn the page.
It's hard to ask for more from a very promising young talent.
This hit the spot for me, but I absolutely see why it has driven other people nuts. Video review here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lwIt-...
[Svetelena said] I lived by aesthetic principles, whereas she, who had been raised on Western philosophy, was doomed to live boringly be ethical principles. It had never occurred to me to think of aesthetics and ethics as opposites. I thought ethics were aesthetic. “Ethics” meant the golden rule, which was basically an aesthetic rule. That’s why it was called “golden” like the golden ratio. “Isn’t that why you don’t cheat or steal – because it’s ugly” I said I read this novel due to its longlis
This is a coming of age story – capturing almost perfectly the transition from home and school to University, including at a world leading University like Harvard suddenly realising that your hitherto outstanding achievements are now par for the course (Selin for example shocked when she does not make the college orchestra).Selim is hopelessly naïve – both about the way Ivan is playing with her affections and around the conventions of student life which she initially struggles to recognise and then struggles to comprehend when she does recognise them – be that drinking alcohol, going to a coffee shop, buying clichéd posters of Einstein for her shared room, or for example when dancing in a group at a disco 
After listening this book, had to think about it long and hard before writing a review. First of all only reason I wanted to read was author is a daughter of Turkish parents. Places she was visiting was exciting places I would love to visit or lived in. But this book is definitely for twenty something age group, just going to university and discovering what life is about.
I feel like most of this book just went completely over my head. I don't get it :)
Selin's pursuit of love and pursuit of intellectualism run parallel, both stemming from a desire to understand and be understood, and this is something that Batuman explores deftly in these pages.The most noteworthy thing about this book is the brilliant protagonist that Batuman has created in Selin, and her striking narrative voice.
Selin observes the world in order to gain a deeper understanding of herself and where exactly she fits into the cosmic puzzle - and that's something I really connected with.
This isn't a book you read for escapism as much as one you read in order to gain a clearer picture of your own reality.
I have a lot of complicated feelings about this book, to the point where I think if someone were to ask me, "but did you like it?" I would only be able to manage a sort of groan/shrug combo.
But since I'm not, I'm not super satisfied with that, and I took a lot of notes as I read that I would really hate to go to waste.So let's try to articulate this and see if we can't come up with a better response to that question than a shrug.I think The Idiot does what it does very well.
I won a copy of The Idiot by Elif Batuman here on Goodreads and couldn't wait to read it. Unfortunately, I didn't love it. This is a novel in which nothing truly happens: nothing good, nothing bad, and nothing exciting. At over four hundred pages of what read like a rambling stream of consciousness, I never felt invested in the story or connected with any of the characters. Intelligently written with occasional dry humor and several interesting facts, it wasn't an unpleasant read; however, it isn't one that I would widely recommend.
Sadly I had to DNF it because I'm bored to death!
I think there will be people who will like this style of writing, but it's just not for me.
Very daily language, I feel like I'm reading someone's journal during college days in a very simple way.
We didn't go deep to any of them anyway to get to know them.-Interesting story to follow: It's very daily life until this point, which I think quite a lot (30%).
So, sadly I will move on to a book that I enjoy more as we all have so many books, so little time :) Thanks!
While reading, I kept feeling like I had read versions of this before -- a rambling story about a cerebral main character who as a young person confronts a bewildering world of eccentric characters and odd situations without ever quite mastering them, instead always (mis)reading the world like a puzzling text - but, typically, such novels have a male protagonist.
(I kept thinking of Confederacy of Dunces, actually, while reading this, largely because of some echo in the tone).
So to read this (anti)-Bildungsroman told from the perspective of a young woman was a special delight.
I can't wait to read what Batuman writes next.
Studia ad Harvard ma è di origine turche, cerca di imparare il russo ma lo trova ostico, vuole scrivere ma a volte teme che la scrittura sia sfuggire alla vita e insegue l'amore senza riuscire ad afferrarlo mentre invece trova con facilità l'amicizia che non ha cercato.Avevo già letto la Batuman anni fa, nel suo primo libro tradotto in Italia I Posseduti che mi aveva deluso perché lo credevo un libro che sulla letteratura russa mentre era solo un libro su una universitaria che studia letteratura russa.
Qui invece il suo sguardo intelligente e originale mi ha conquistato.Mi ė piaciuta la giovinezza insicura di Selin, il suo apprendistato faticoso e irripetibile alla vita delle relazioni, quel sentirsi soli e inutili al mondo anche quando si è nel pieno centro di una rete di affetti e di possibilità.
[3+] The Idiot is a meandering novel about the musings of a freshman at Harvard. Like Dostevesky's idiot, she is quite smart but unworldly. After reading several reviews, I was prepared for nothing to happen, but I still had to tap into my inner patience to get through these 423 pages. What saved the novel for me was Batuman's dry wit. At times this novel was laugh-aloud funny. I also liked the literary references - like Selin referring to the cloak-like coat she bought at Filene's as Gogolian.
Set at Harvard in the mid-to-late 1990s Elif Batuman’s “The Idiot” follows a freshman named Selin as she navigates the uncertain territory of college life, young love and finding a direction in life.
I went to college at this exact same time in Boston (at a much smaller, non-ivy league school) and shared many of Selin’s experiences of starting to use email for the first time and riding on the T or the MBTA subway around the city.
A large portion of this novel is taken up with the intricacies of campus living and then follows Selin to Hungary where she attempts to teach English in small villages.
[...] Just being alive felt like some incredibly long card game where you didn't know if the point was to get cards or lose them, or what you had to do to get cards or lose them.)Η γλώσσα είναι, ωστόσο, η λυδία λίθος του κειμένου.
Η Selin στο μεγαλύτερο μέρος του βιβλίου αφοσιώνεται είτε στην εκμάθηση μιας άλλης γλώσσας, ρωσική στο πρώτο μέρος κι ουγγρική στο δεύτερο, είτε στη διδασκαλία της αγγλικής ως δεύτερη γλώσσα, ως εθελόντρια στο πρώτο μισό και κατά τις διακοπές της στην Ουγγαρία στο δεύτερο.Πρόκειται, λοιπόν, για μια σειρά από vignettes, a picture of a really young person who is well-equipped in certain ways and not well-equipped in other ways, [...] a self-standing book, about a certain struggle to make meaning, the struggle for a girl to find meaning outside of the romance plot, όπως χαρακτηρίζει το μυθιστόρημα η συγγραφέας εδώ.
I received an ARC from the publisher for a free and honest review. Everyone has their favorite coming-of-age novel. Sadly, there may come a time for some when this sub-genre no longer works. I had high hopes for this novel. However, I just did not care. Lost interest in the characters, found myself rolling my eyes at some of the dialogue. This was not the novel for me. However, I look forward to the author's next novel.
