https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/373009.Biting_the_Sun
Except if that society isn't your cup of tea, well, living in it can be hellish.---Great book -- or rather, two books, since this is apparently Don't Bite the Sun and Drinking Sapphire Wine bundled up in one.
I won't say much else, for fear of spoiling its developments, but it was very good -- the world-building throughout was strong and interesting, the voice witty and fun, and heartwrenching at times.And a note about the villain: (view spoiler)[The slow unveiling of the QRs -- the quasi-robots -- as the baddies was perfectly done, and plays right into genre tropes re: villainous AIs and the Hal-esque It's for your own good malice.
In the far, far future, after most of the planet has been sucked dry, humanity lives in three colossal dome cities in the middle of the vast desert.
There is no hunger, sickness or true death—suicide is a sport that has next-to-no consequences, since a new body of any shape, size or sex is always waiting.
Youth now lasts a century, and the disaffected young people now form a separate class in society: the eternally dilettante Jang, encouraged or required to be silly, selfish and profligate, to change their bodies and their sex often, to sample every drug, food, music and sensation this hedonistic society has to offer, and never to think a serious thought or do anything that is not thoughtless and pleasurable.But what if this existence chafes?
I love how easily Lee can create depressed or unhappy characters without ever once saying so. Thus is the case with this book's heroine. The writing, as usual for Lee, was great, but again, as with most sci-fi I read, this wasn't for me.
This was a strange book but definitely a memorable one. I didn't think I liked it at first and I definitely didn't love it, but I did find my thoughts returning to it after I'd read it. It will be staying on my bookshelf for that reason (plus admittedly, I'd be loath to get rid of it even so due to the lovely Kinuko Craft cover!).Full Review: http://www.fantasybookcafe.com/2016/1...
This book has such a wonderful main character – though she has a desire for something greater in her life, for three-quarters of the book, she spends her time getting distracted from that by many shiny things – a new pet!
a new body!
someone else new to fall in love with!
someone else new to fall in love with!
The author does such a good job humanizing her as a protagonist through that, because honestly, who really trusts a teenager who decides to dedicate their life to a greater something-or-other and then proceeds to focus on that to the exclusion of all else?Also a theme: never trust robots; probably they are evil and/or explosive.
However, the heroine's humorous, self-aware observation of her decisions and emotional state keeps things light, and there are hints of genuine affection between her and her "circle," and her and her stolen pet, which made for an oddly cozy feel.
I'm interested in seeing where the story goes in the second Four BEE novel published in this collected volume.Drinking Sapphire Wine (3/5 stars):Attlevey again, oomas!Our unnamed heroine has done it this time.
The goofy animals, the heroine's self-aware and curious mindset, her exasperated dealings with those around her, all give the duology a humorous feel.
This is actually a collection of two books, "Don't Bite the Sun" and "Drinking Sapphire Wine", but I'm glad that I read the collected edition, because I would have been extremely unsastisfied with the ending to the first book.
It's only when you get to "Drinking Sapphire Wine" that she really starts to DO something about it.The book is confusing at first, but it's in a style that I really admire when an author can pull it off.
It was a little startling to see things coming together so well (despite setbacks); after reading the Scarabae trillogy, I'm more used to Lee's books being tragic, and slightly perverted.
Probably the most original novel I've ever read.Tanith Lee has this wonderful way of drawing her readers into her world.
(Because we already know, right?)Her language as always is wonderful, (I've never read any author with such a flair for creative adjectives!) Descriptive but still very concise.There is a glossary at the beginning of the novel, defining the Jang slang words used throughout the book.
The slang is frequently used, which I found really helped give the impression the world was authentic.
Only through challenging our minds and bodies, and making our own choices can we learn and grow!I love this book.
This is my favorite book of all time. Period. No contest. It's almost a religious experience re-reading it. I never thought I would be able to say that this is the book, above all others, that speaks most clearly the inner language of my soul, but there you have it.
By today’s standards, what Lee does with the idea of gender swapping might seem tame, but for it’s day, I can imagine it was different, illuminating, and maybe even shocking to some.
But it can still be said that this book takes a lot of worthy chances by involving the idea of gender being transitory.The story also echoes the classic Brave New World, though from a slightly different angle.
The path she takes (and most of her loses are suffered when she is in a female body) makes it so she witnesses death in a very personal way.
It’s about gender identity.
Both novels are set in the same universe and focus on many of the same characters, so it makes perfect sense for them to be put out in one volume, particularly as I feel the first book is in desperate need of a conclusion that Drinking Sapphire Wine provides for it.The people of Four-BEE live in a world where both young and old, but especially the young, can experience any pleasure they like, to the extent that if they get bored with their personal appearance they can suicide and wake up in a new body, male or female, in all sorts of variations.
In a idealized, futuristic world, humans live in cities under fabulous domes where robots cater to their needs.
Adolescence in the domed cities typically lasts for half a century, or more, and the life of a single individual might span centuries, until the soul becomes weary of living and voluntarily requests "personality dissolution," which is not even death, but a kind of deferred reincarnation.
The book ends on an optimistic note, with the human spirit asserting itself against the protectionist and machine forces which seek to oppress it - by which I mean all those busybody, paternalistic robots that make up the city's "Committee." Thought-provoking, entertaining and highly recommended.
The world is set in the distant future and people live in domes called ether Four BOO, Four BEE, of Four BAA.
The main character (who you never know her name) is not content with the world that is made so teens (called Jang) can do whatever they want.
She wants to move on to be an adult but the androids who run the domes won't allow it, they don't think she has been a Jang long enough.
I won't say any more but I really really liked this book and highly recommend it for ages 14+.
At no point did I feel like the story dragged or was I sitting there thinking "Why don't they hurry up already?" I almost cried when the book ended and it left me with such feelings I had to sit there for a few minutes and contemplate.If you like science fiction, if you like survival stories, if you like stories of people finding themselves, dystopians, world building or basically any kind of book, you should read this one.
A funny, surprisingly endearing book that struggles with the most basic of human traits and necessities -- love, freedom, boredom, the freedom to fuck up a lot because you're bored. The fantastical setting paints a rich world for this small portrait of epic attempts to create a life worth living, and by the time you put it down, you'll be thinking in the slang and wishing that, despite all of its flaws, this was a world you could see for yourself. But hey -- maybe one day.
This was an absorbing, utterly loopy read about a world gone so wrong that suicide is one of the most popular options available. This story is about finding a way out of that meaninglessness. Kept me reading even though I often wanted to slap the protagonist. Great stuff!
My favorite book, ever, ever, ever! Utopic/dystopic future, drugs, sex, suicide, and an awesome strong female protagonist. And the desert. Coming of age. Just amazing, trust me.Still my favorite book and I recommend it to everyone!
Sometimes I would love to be able to exchange my body for a custom-made one. ^_^ That'd be awesome.
Really, a fun book with an interesting main character and a complex world.
It wasn't until I finished reading that I realized I must have forgotten the main character's name - or perhaps I never knew.
Whichever way, this book plays with concepts of identity and sexuality, life and death.
In this world, you don't ever die, you are reborn into a body of your own design.
Biting the Sun is actually two books and I burst into tears at the end of the first.
I did enjoy this book. It was an interesting storyline
They fit so seamlessly together, and I wonder if I would have bothered to pick up the second book if it wasn't already attached to the first in this version--there's no real closure at all at the end of the first book, which is kind of a pet peeve of mine, even in series.In any case, it really made me appreciate Tanith Lee's writing skills.
No two books/series of hers that I've read have had the same voice, which seems like a really rare thing.
In the end, the main plot isn't frightfully original, but I feel like the way it's written makes it feel more so somehow.
This only makes me want to read more of what Tanith Lee has done, since I have really only scratched the surface.
I understood the point Lee was trying to make within fifteen pages of the book's beginning.
Despite that, she treated us to over one hundred pages of emphasis on the Jang girl's frustration, boredom, and need for rebellion.
Ahhh!By the second book, I thought I'd lose it if Lee didn't take her point somewhere.
It was a merciful relief, and quite enjoyable besides, to see our protagonist use her ingenuity and determination to construct her sanctuary and return to the desert.
While I couldn't stand the desert Jang, they actually demonstrated a great deal about the mentality that our protagonist had left in the Cities when she left.
I won't rate it because I don't think it was poorly written.
The narrative style rubs me the wrong way.
I HATED the main character so much.
I knew I'd suffer through her stupidity to the end.Most of all I HATED the unexciting plot.
Not even the "hedonism" presented in the book was all that exciting.
If I had to pick a favorite character it would be Hatta.
But then, he is written in such a way the reader is supposed to cheer for him.
That I finished the fucking book is a testament to my love of reading.
Tanith Lee's books have this odd, undefinable, dream-like quality to them.
Biting the Sun, a science fiction dystopia in which the world is controlled by some form of robot and the majority of humans are encouraged to spend the entirety of their lives in blissful ignorance of the real realities of life and humanity (there's a 'never growing up' metaphor that isn't quite a metaphor throughout the book), is no exception.
It wasn't entirely to my taste (I'm not much of a science fiction person), but I enjoyed it nonetheless.
Just go along with it, like a dream.
I didn't read these 2 books until they were published, I guess in 1999, as 1 book, Biting The Sun. No religion here, but it was still a very imaginative, pleasant read. I re-read it often for escapist purposes.
As a result, it takes a good long while for you to stop thinking, "What the HELL is going on here?!" Once you get the hang of it, though, you're kind of hooked.I admired the tone of the first book.
It relates the tale of a person (sometimes in a female body, sometimes male) who has become disillusioned with the hedonistic way of life provided in the cities of the Fours.
Go ahead and kill yourself, you can personally design the body you next inhabit right away.
The second book tells of the beginning of a resistance to that way of life.
Девианти има рядко, нещастието е неразбираемо, но лесно се избягва със зрелищно самоубийство, след което малките братя роботчета смитат останките и пренасят божията искрица до цех Лимбо или Чистилище по нашему, където натъжената душа си избира да се прероди да речем в двайсетметрова мацка със синя коса и рог на еднорог, с надеждата за малко разтуха от презадоволението, ширещо се на воля, крепено внимателно от металните тихи бавачки.На никой не се налага да работи освен на шепа извратеняци, които се забавляват да натискат копчета, като същите между другото, ако не бъдат натиснати овреме, сами си вършат и тая работа, спестявайки усилията на подопечните си, а вместо пари се плаща с емоционална енергия, пак по избор, а не като задължение, изразяваща се в дълговременно крещене на благодарности в ушите на услужлива машинка, ретранслираща заразното щастие в обикновен ток за поддържане на енергийни полета, пречистващи системи и прочие благинки за човечеството.
Wow!
This actually the best book I’ve read in ages!
Written in the first person, Tanith Lee gives the reader none of the usual long-winded explanations or excuse about the alien, futuristic (even dystopian) world this story is set in, rather she simply drops you into it, immersed in strange slang (at least she provides a list at the beginning of the book of the slang) and a deathless life where every whim is catered for by robots, where you can change gender and body almost whenever you like, and the weather is always perfect.
Paradise, right?
Highly, highly recommend reading.
Zeker niet haar beste boek. Het idee is aardig, maar Tanith Lee is toch beter in het schrijven van fantasyverhalen dan in het schrijven van pure sciencefiction. Op het moment dat het fantasygehalte van het verhaal belangrijker wordt dan de SF word je als lezer ook meer gegrepen door het verhaal.Een boek dat ik zeker niet zal herlezen.
This book is a dystopian science fiction - actually comprises two seperated shorter novels, Don't Bite the Sun and its sequal Drinking Sapphire Wine, which originally published in year 1976 and 1977.
The background of story is interesting: In the far future, human beings live in the dome cities which are protected with electricity wave shield, and governed and managed by androids.
In Don't Bite the Sun, the narrator, usually a girl, whose name is never mentioned in the book, is annoying to me, and her/his adventures are mostly just a series of uninteresting troubles.
I prefer Drinking Sapphire Wine.
