https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/909511.The_Principles_of_Art
هذا كان قطعا كتابا مفاجئافلم أتوقع إلا أنه يكون تنظيرا مملا عن الفنوأنني فقط سأستفيد بمعلوماته لا أكثرولكن ما وجدته حقا مختلففأسلوب الكاتبوطريقة نقده للنظريات الفنيةكان شديد التميزشيقالفكرة معروضه جيدامفندة بطريقة تجذب عفل القاريءأفضل فصول الكتاب هي التي كانت تتحدث عن وجهة نظر كولنجوود عن الفن الحقيقي في مقابل الفن الزائفاشتريته طبعة مكتبة الأسرة من زمن طويلربما كان بجنيه واحد على الأكثر
كتاب رائع بكل معنى الكلمةيمكن اعتباره كتاب مفتاحي لتعريف الفن من حيث المفهوم المجرد أو تنظير الفنأسلوب كولينغوود ممتاز في معالجة الفكرة والعمل على الفرز بين الفن الحقيقي وما سماه الفن الزائف كمرحلة هامة للوصول إلى تعريف فكري للفن..كتاب يستحق القراءة.. حزنت لأنه انتهى :)
Plato (page 6) describes the aesthetic experience "badly" when his words are approached from the point of view of our own contemporary schema.
Beethoven (page 123), with his "temperamental inclination to rant," ruins his art by "telling" after he has already elegantly "shown." Metaphysicians (page 131) engage in an endless, "truceless war," debating what is real (the song written down and/or played?) and what is unreal, existing only in our mind (the song in the artist's mind?).
If you ever use the word "create," be sure there are no "theophobic" people within earshot.
"The bright eyes of a mouse or the fragile vitality of a flower are things that touch us to the heart, but they touch us with the love that life feels for life, not with the judgment of their aesthetic excellence." Enough said.
كتاب نقد فني مميز خاصة في الثلث الاخير الذي يتحدث عن الفن بمعناه الحق .. روبين مسخرة في نقده لبعض النظريات الفنية :D
This isn't a quick or easy read, but it has blown my mind wide open.
The best discussion on art I ever read. Amazing.
In the first part of the book, Collingwood distinguishes art from craft, and he discusses the creations that we often refer to as art but that he excludes from the domain of art, such as amusement and magic.
But here we learn from Collingwood the archeologist and folklorist that magic isn't for the manipulation of creation by some mystical force (although some few may have believed this), but he describes it as an enactment of rituals to arouse certain emotional responses from those performing or observing the rituals.
All art--and not just literature--is an expression of emotions that uses a form of expression, a language, if you will.
The fastest and clearest route into the ideas of people like Hegel, Merleau-Ponty and Heidegger without any of the difficult language. A great book. The introduction is a fantastic piece of (Aristotelian) philosophical writing.
"... a good painter - any good painter will tell you the same - he paints things because until he has painted them he doesn't know what it is like."
