https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/890282.The_Sailor_Dog
And Scuppers The Sailor Dog has his own song to sing at the end.All this packed into 24 pages.
This is the skill of writing for young kids - not as easy as it looks.Through the story there it has, woven rhythmic word reinforcement that repeats words, essential and valuable for children to learn to read and learn to love reading.
Are children's books the most important books of all?
I've read it a gazillion times to my kids, now all grown up.The Sailor Dog is a picture book.
With picture books the pictures are as important as, and integral to the story.
Granted I'm not a child and I read this for the first time 5 minutes ago, but I've never read a children's book so boring and tedious as this one. I hope the homeless child my mother bought this for will enjoy it more than I.
I got this book as a present for Sam a while ago because apparently it was really formative for him as a kid! Specifically this page:Ever since he read that, he has been obsessed with hooks and having a place for everything and everything in its place. Once we read the actual book, we found that it's actually pretty strange and has some major plot holes. These golden books weren't really meant to be great literature.
"The Sailor Dog" is a less well known work by the author of "Goodnight Moon".
Scupper, the title character is born on a boat.
He spends the early part of the book deciding he doesn't want to ride in a plane or train or car.
He's from the sea and that's where he belongs.
He returns to the sea, but is shipwrecked.
Through his resourcefulness he endures isolation on an abandoned island where he repairs his boat.
Once his boat is repaired he travels to many strange and different lands.
Through his resourcefulness, open mind and perseverance Scupper is able to discover who he truly is.
My brother and I loved this just to bits when we were kids, and I got to read it to my cousin's little girl while in Florida! A very sweet thing, that.
This is an odd story, but we were enticed by the picture of the puppy on the cover and the fact that it was written by Margaret Wise Brown.
It's interesting, but rambles.
Scupper's song at the end of the book is humorous and reminds me of the theme song from the Popeye cartoon.The illustrations are fun, with interesting details.
We enjoyed reading this book together, even if it can't compare to Goodnight Moon in our esteem.August 2017 update: discovered this book in a bookswap bin and just had to read it again.
It's still a pretty odd story, but would likely appeal to younger children.
My husband and I agree this is one of the worst children's books we've read. The prose is weird… stilted and rambling… there are plot holes, the narrative is almost incoherent… and the song is kind of terrible. This isn't a case of expecting too much from a children's book--we have dozens and have read hundreds and trust me, there are way better books.Having said that, of course some children still love it. It's about a dog, and sailing, and the illustrations are colorful and pretty decent. But we quickly gave our copy away before our daughter got too attached…
The Sailor Dog by Margaret Wise Brown, illustrated by Garth Williams, is an adorable story about Scuppers the Dog and his adventure across the sea!Oh my goodness, this book is adorable! The storyline is short and sweet, but also very exciting! Scuppers goes on quite the adventure. The illustrations are also very lovely!A very enjoyable read as an adult... but I cannot wait to read this one to my future kiddos to see their reactions!
I'm sorry, but this is too far away from my knowledge/comfort level. Why does the sailor have to be a dog? Why does he dress in British colonial gear? Exactly whose boat is he sailing on (or did he steal it?)? Too many questions!
My husband's very favorite book. We named our dog after the main character!
This is the ultimate children's book about resilience! So, he was shipwrecked? He builds a house and catches his supper from the sea. I'm a 63 year old pediatrician, and can still recite this story, because of the number of times children have asked me to tell it to them. I've coached them through chemotherapy and asthma attacks with the words, that both interest and calm small people. Gorgeous illustrations by Garth Williams and story/lyrics by Margaret Wise Brown.
Scuppers is a dog who wanted to beva sailor, which he does. He is shipwrecked and washed onto shore. He usesvdriftwood and some tools he found to build a house "all by himself." He starts a fire and builds himself a bed. Then he repairs his ship and sails back out to sea which is where he wants to be.
While it's like nostalgia, this story is a part of me. Admittedly I was introduced to it a part of Golden Books videos, and the illustrations also came from other books of hers, but even so, Scuppers will always hold a place in my heart. His never give up personality is extremely encouraging.
This was a title by M W Brown that I hadn't read, and Garth Williams was the illustrator. Two good reasons to read the book. Even though I gave them both three stars, I liked this story better than Poky Little Puppy.
Scuppers the sailor dog goes to sea. His ship is wrecked so he builds a house. Then he fixes his ship. He sails off and goes to a foreign land and buys new clothes and food. Now he is happy sailing the seven seas.
Scuppers the sailor dog is such a fun, happy book, great to read aloud to the kids.
this was long and i couldn't sit still!
adorable little kids book!!!! great pictures and cute little story
Seems a little disjointed most of the time. But the pictures are cute and the story simple, and I really liked it when I was younger.
good fantasy. Fun.

As an adult, I've come to realize that a lot of the classic books I loved as children aren't so amazing now that I'm grown up.
But Margaret Wise Brown takes the prize for me as many of her books don't even make much sense.
This book is no exception.
Like he gets on board a boat with people and then he's shipwrecked and there's no mention of the other people aboard.
I'm giving it two stars but add another because of my memories of liking it a lot more than that.
How can a Little Golden Book that was written by Margaret Wise Brown and illustrated by Garth Williams be anything less than perfect?
Margaret Wise Brown wrote poetry -- not the forced rhythm, attempted rhyming couplets (or quatrains) that so often results in doggerel poetry -- not necessarily with a rhyme at all, but it was poetry none-the-less.
Her writing, for the most part, should be read out loud and savored.
I grew up with Garth Williams' illustrations.
From the time I was about six, we had all the "Little House" books in our house, and I devoured them.
This was my first book!
The illustrations are embedding deep in my memory after a thousand sittings.Garth Williams, the illustrator, was on his way to a fulfilling career.
He illustrated the Little House series, Stuart Little, Cricket in Time Square, Charlotte's Web, and many other children's books.
He write and illustrated The Rabbit's Wedding in 1958.
It proved controversial with the topic of a wedding between two rabbits, one white and the other black.Williams died in Guanajuato, Mexico in 1996.
I will discover his grave someday and pay homage to his awakening of my love of books.
I first read this book as a child at my grandmother's house. It was one of my mother's favorite books from her childhood and she made sure to pass it along to us. In turn, my children now count it among their favorites.The book follows Scuppers, The Sailor Dog, as he follows his desire to become a true Dog of the Sea. For me, the illustrations are what make this book so wonderful. There's just something about seeing little furry Scuppers trying on clothes in a shop in India that endears him to your heart forever!
The illustrations in this book are fantastic. I didn't care much for the story itself. Charlotte seemed to like it well enough, though, and that's what's important.I just read this book to her for the first time. The whole time it seemed familiar. I kept thinking of this whining annoying voice saying, "But I'm a sailor dog." This is why. My younger brother constantly watched a VHS tape that had a video adaptation of this story for a while. That voice still cuts right through me.
This is indeed a Little Golden Book! I bought this book for my daughters twenty-odd years ago, and am still in love with it! One of the cutest, funniest books ever to take itself seriously. Story and illustrations come together perfectly. A bonus: you can sing Scuppers' song to the tune of 'Popeye the Sailor Man'! Love the last bit -- 'I can sail in a gale right over a whale, Under full sail in a fog!' Toot, toot!
I personally grew up reading this book and I always loved listening to the stories of the sailor dog. His story allowed my imagination to flourish and I think the same can be said for the children who read this book. They will read it and say, "wow I want to be an adventurer too." I would recommend this to teachers who are reading to their students.
"The Sailor Dog" is a book out of the Little Golden Books collection that I collected when I was younger. This book is about Scuppers the dog who wants to be a sailor. It is a great book for younger children (3-5 years) who want to look at an interesting book about a dog at sea. This book has good illustrations that have a lot of color, which adds to the book as a whole.
Scuppers was born on the sea and like a true sailor is destined to live on the sea. Even when he is shipwrecked during his first return voyage to the sea, and even after he makes himself a home on the beach, Scuppers still dreams of being on the ocean. And so, he fixes his ship and does just that, setting foot on land only long enough to shop.
