https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42056.The_Cat_Who_Knew_Shakespeare
Book Review  4 of 5 stars to The Cat Who Knew Shakespeare, the 7th book in the "Cat Who" series, published in 1988 by Lilian Jackson Braun. At this point, the series is well under way. Qwill has been in Pickax, Moose County, 400 miles north of everywhere, for almost a year. He's gotten to know several of the town's residents, taken on a part-time column at the local paper and begun dating Polly Duncan, which will turn out to be a very low-key relationship for at least the next ten books in the
He's gotten to know several of the town's residents, taken on a part-time column at the local paper and begun dating Polly Duncan, which will turn out to be a very low-key relationship for at least the next ten books in the series.
and a very valuable copy of his play.This was one of the cuter books in the series, partially because we really spend a lot of time with the various townspeople, see a few of them murdered off, and get to experience Qwill building solid relationships.
In this 7th book in the 'Cat Who' series, Jim Qwilleran (Qwill) - formerly a crime reporter in Chicago - is living in a town called Pickax in Moose County....a region that's '400 miles north of everywhere.' Qwill moved to the nether regions because he's required to live in Pickax for five years to get his inheritance: the Klingenschoen fortune and the Klingenschoen mansion.
Yum Yum is a normal kitty - who likes to swipe and hide shiny things, but Koko is very unusual: he's a sort of 'cat clairvoyant' who can sniff out evil; predict crimes; mount rescue operations; etc.
Good, my only problem is that she keeps killing off 2 or more residents of the town in each book. By the time I get to #30 of her books, there won't be any one left in town.
This 7th entry of the adventures of former newsman Jim Qwilleran and his amazing siamese cats, Koko and YumYum, finds him settling into life as the wealthiest resident of Moose County.A key event in the story: Jim has completed his plan to turn the fabulous, treasure-filled Klingenschoen mansion into a part-time museum, available for tours and private events.
Also he's now established as "in his 50's." (So, he had a good run - he was 45 from 1968 when the series started, until at least 1987.) The unlucky-in-love Hixie Rice from "...Saw Red" has moved to Pickax with her chef boyfriend and is managing the Grist Mill restaurant.
Mrs. Cobb also gets a boyfriend, with unexpected results.As the title implies, there are many references to Shakespeare.
I'm not a cat person, I'm really not. But you just can't not love these cats. Lilian Jackson Braun really knew how to craft a cozy. Murder and violence happens, but conveniently off-scene. There are lots of lovable and quirky characters in a small town. (Of course, this small town's murder rate must be atrocious!)This is actually one of the better ones. Very enjoyable.
If you've never read any of "The Cat Who...." books, you really should. They are a mindless, easy read...and really fun! I've read them all, and love them!
The gym I'm a member of has a shelf of free books to take for your workout, if you happen to be one of those folks who can run, bike and read at the same time.
Yet, the true charm resides in the feline characters of Koko and Yum Yum. I'm not sure you could appreciate this book if you aren't a cat lover (even a mild one), especially when Braun suggests Koko solved the crime long before his human companion.
But there's a time and place for such things and if the desire ever comes again to attempt to read while running, I'll look for another Braun "The Cat Who" mystery.
Neanche questa avventura, prevalentemente incendiaria , mi ha convinto, ma i libri della serie sono ancora tanti. Ci vorrebbe un po' più di mistero, più interazione felina e gradirei anche sapere qualcosina sulla vita di Jim. Carini gli scheletri negli armadi degli abitanti di Mooseville.
Maybe 2.5 stars if I'm being generous.
I'm starting to wonder why I've been continuing with these series.
The protagonist is still a selfish, chauvinist pig; the murders are not interesting or of emotionally invested characters; and the suspense in the mystery does not manage to be compelling at all.
The only slightly redeeming qualities of these books are the involvement of the cats and reading about the old mansions and antiques.
If this series doesn't start getting better like the first few books were, I'll end up giving up and not finishing, as much as I hate doing that with a series.
The books of plays by Shakespeare that Koko knocks down are a hint of what is to come. For example, the first one, The Tempest, comes just before the death of Senior Goodwinter, the owner of the local paper. Plus, there are plenty of Hamlet connections with the characters these Cat Who books are always fun to read.
It is definitely a "light" read.Character: The cats are very memorable, and Qwilleran is a fun character.
If the reader is already familiar with the series, the quirky people in Pickax continue to be an interesting aspect to the series.Who should read this book: Cat-lovers, cozy-mystery lovers, people looking for something "light" to readWho shouldn't read this book: People who want a fast-paced thriller and people who hate cats will not like this book.Conclusion: This is one of the better Cat Who books.
It is probably one of my favorites out of the series.
I found this to be a charming little mystery.
My only complaint is I have no idea why Qwill is a millionaire and why he is living in Pickax.
I guess I will have to go back and read the others in this very long running series.
Also I was a little put out by how nonplussed Qwill was when his friend Harry was killed, I mean Qwill dragged him from London to wherever Pickax is and then didn't seem to care that the guy got killed.
Overall, I enjoyed the book and will probably go and pick up the first title in the series and start there.
Je voelt dat er iets niet klopt maar het grootste gedeelte van het boek is een feelgood verhaal met de ondertussen vertrouwde personages en uteraard enkele nieuwkomers.
Er zijn lugubere verhalen, kleine mysteries en de actie van de brandweeer en zelfs een sterfgeval maar niets wijst erop dat er een moordonderzoek loopt.
Je krijgt heel veel achtergrond zodat je de karakters nog beter leert kennen - of van een andere kant - totdat alle verhaallijnen bij mekaar lopen en op enkele bladzijden de climax volgt.
Persoonlijk heb ik zeker genoten van deze benadering door de schrijfster die toch wel anders is dan wat we gewoon zijn.
Score another one for the crime solving trio! This one was the oddest of the series so far, but wonderful none the less. Relationships, snow, music and plays are just the tips of the iceberg. And it concludes with a ending I didn't see coming.
I LOVED this series! I’ve read them all and rate them all a 5. If you like quirky mysteries this is one you should cover. Jim Qwilleran is my kind of detective ... add in a couple of clever cats & what you have is involved, funny and interesting.
This is a fun little tale, although it jumps around so much, with so many red herrings, that it's difficult to figure out exactly what the mystery is, let alone whodunit. But it has cats and Shakespeare; all it needs now is Vader and bacon.
Shakespeare performed by cats: To meow or not to meow, dumb question, feed me now. Loved it.
koko trying to (view spoiler)[lick the ceramic glaze off the china plate (hide spoiler)] is by far the funniest thing to happen
I love the Cat Who series. Good, entertaining, light reading.
Yes I am really into this series right now. Each book has a great new mystery to be solved by two highly intelligent cats and their inquisitive owner
Oh, and that same prescient Siamese cat keeps knocking volumes of an antique set of the complete works of Shakespeare off the shelf, usually making some connection in his owner's mind to some point in the events around them, and with a particular preference for Hamlet, which proves to be very much relevant to the main story our journalist detective is trying to unravel.It keeps up the light mystery feeling of the other books in the series, something akin to a Murder She Wrote sort of television mystery but a bit more complicated (it is, after all, a book).
If she had stopped with the dismantling of the antique local newspaper the Pickax Picayune, that would have made a nice mystery, but what a sad destruction in the climax!Qwill's new housekeeper makes a fine addition to the cast, but she would have wished to be less involved in the mystery.
And why did another old character have to be dragged in and added to the clearing-out?The instinctively wise Siamese Koko is in his usual fine form, providing I Ching-like clues with a valuable set of Shakespeare.
Qwill and his friends, human and animal, make good company.
It's hard to tell if my reviews of The Cat Who books are inflated due to nostalgia or not. But this book was pretty good in my opinion on a reread, and I enjoyed Qwill's plans with the apple barn. Solid mystery and decent world-building, simple but very effective.
In this particular story he is living the good life due to his now a millionaire after inheriting a vast estate from a long lost wealthy relative.
However, the events that unfold, mainly in the lives of the people around him, and Koko's unusual new habit of pushing different Shakespeare novels onto his library floor, lead Qwilleran into, yet, another murder puzzle.
As the events unfold Qwilleran not only solves the puzzle but finds new romance.
I just feel there was not enough of Koko and Yum-Yum though, being a cat lover myself.
His wife plans to sell the newspaper to XYZ Enterprises as well as the furnishings to her house and move Down Below.
Mrs. Cobb also continues her romance with Herb Hackpole and eventually marries him.
Qwill is also notified that his investor friend and Mrs. Goodwinter had a car crash and died after a run-in with an eight-point buck.
Mrs. Goodwinter jumped at the chance to get with Qwill's investor friend and leave Pickax, which left Mr. X wide open for Hixie to get with at the end of the book.
The Cat Who Knew Shakespeare is the seventh in a very lengthy "Cat Who..." series of mysteries by Lilian Jackson Braun.
The protagonist of the series is curmudgeonly Qwilleran, a journalist in a small, very cold, town, and his cat Koko (by this book, Koko has a companion, Yum Yum).
The book involves the mysterious death of a young friend of Qwilleran's father.
I liked Qwilleran-he would fit comfortably in a tv series and Koko was entertaining, especially in the use of sophisticated literature to convey clues.
I found the book comfortable but not exciting or challenging.
Friends shouldn't buy bad books for friends.
Sorry, Yum-Yum and Koko, but your owner is an insane man who gets credit for solving crimes when he does nothing and then pretends that his cats help him.
The man can do no wrong-- he loves art and cats, stands up for women, and has a nice moustache that hints that something is awry: "Qwilleran felt a significant twinge in the roots of his moustache." It all ends up being too comical without purposeful comedy and has no payout in terms of a murder mystery.
I give this book one Qwilleran's quivering moustache out of five.
This one wasn't as bad as the last "Cat Who..." book I read.
The mystery was mostly competent.
If maybe the mystery could have been unveiled piece by piece.
Or maybe if there was more of a confrontation with the villain (rather them just dying off screen) I would have liked it more.
And way too obsessed with his cats.
But that was less obvious in this one than in the last one I read.
Which read almost entirely like a crazy cat lady wrote it.
All in all, it was a very standard mystery.
But I will probably never read it again.
My initial impression of "The Cat Who Knew Shakespeare" by Lilian Jackson Braun = Wilford Brimley + Jimmy Olsen + 2 Siamese cat "detectives".
To tell the truth my impression didn't really change that much by the time I got to the end.
My mom found a couple of books in the series for me and I thought I'd begin with this one because I like cats and I like Shakespeare.
My love of Shakespeare references and cats kept me from giving it 1 star.
I think I'll give my one other Cat Who book a shot.
I have read most of Lilian Jackson Braun 'Cat Who' series but this one I had missed. It answered a lot of early questions that have now become clear. Why Qwill was in Pickax, the Goodwinter curse, etc. Delightful book to read. A mystery to say the least with clues being supplied by Koko and Yum Yum; two Siamese that will entertain you and make you smile at their playful tricks. Makes you wonder if cats really do understand what is being said or done.
