https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31845516-love-warrior
As I sit here in rehab with my newly sober shakey hands just finishing Glennons Love Warrior in one night all I can think is thank freakin' god.
I let her look right at me and she is not mad.
Glennon carries her pain and the pain of others with such GRIT and GRACE and then lays it out bear and hands us the most precious gift she has to give.
She is women's saving grace, we belong to her, there is no judgement there, she's right alongside us and she's holding our hands.
Let's be careful with her and her book and hold her hand right back.
There were many parts of this book that I LOVED, parts that challenged me and made me think. Some of it felt self absorbed and frustrated me.
With each chapter I read of this book, I thought of someone new I wanted to recommend it to. Eventually settling on everyone. Everyone should read this book. Love Warrior is about being vulnerable, shedding your "representative(s)", and being enough.
but many times we discover our close friends ( people we cherish and will continue to cherish if they share their nagging debilitating pain with us) - are really hurting and they have never told us.
So - at times I hated this audiobook- hated myself that I didn’t hate it - was pissed that Glennon needed to write it - but of course she did - and worse - that woman all over the world needed to hear it!
Glennon is just ONE WOMAN trying to share ‘her’ truth - trying to be strong- not a victim - deeply wanting to connect with other people and not suffer alone.
This book just did not do it for me. I've read her blog some and her first book but this one just seemed to be choppy writing and SO much about her dislike of having sex. I generally enjoy her authenticity. I thought it droned on and on but clearly I'm in the minority on Goodreads.
Self indulgent and long winded memoir of a "mom" blogger. I'm sad I cannot get the time back I spent reading this book. A true disappointed.
As a young girl, she had body-image issues, the daughter of a practically perfect in every way mother, and spent most of her pre-teen years and beyond trying to attain her idea of a perfect body through anorexia and bulimia.
Bulimia and alcohol do not a healthy person make.
But the real story is how, after years of running from herself, from showing only her “representative” to her world, not her “real” self, she realizes that’s not enough.
This is the part of this personal story that felt worthwhile to read, to me.
Thank you to Goodsread/author for sending me a copy of this book for review.
So I've had quite a few problems with this book, but mostly just with the author.
She wants to feel pretty, smart, accepted, etc.
But she was trying to be this perfect girl and I could not fathom why.
Of course no one's life is perfect, but what is up with this girl?
She whines and whines and then eventually it's like she has no feelings for people who might actually give a shit.
Like why is the author trying to find validation?
If the author is a whiny brat I'm not interested.
I am not nor ever have been married, but the book spoke about love in a way that transcends and yet also is inextricably linked to marriage.
The author and I also disagree in several ways about God, but when she describes love and forgiveness, I read deep gospel truths there.
This memoir is an author taking her fiercely personal journey and making it available for us all to connect to the universal experience of discovering that we have been sold a bill of goods from the world about what love is and we have to unlearn what we've learned to discover true, deep love.
Well, now I feel better.
I feel so terribly manipulated.
But, this woman absolutely OOZES white privilege.
She gets ill and her husband happily moves them all to Florida where she can spend time listening to the ocean and watching sunsets!?
She can afford therapy for herself, her husband, AND her kids!
SHE tunes her husband out too.
Then, she writes this book, publishes it, and divorces him anyway.
That if you are white enough, wealthy enough, and lucky enough in your life circumstances you can do what you want to people and still be comfortable with yourself?
Not my favorite book by a long haul.
It's a staggering set of demands, and it's no wonder so many girls get lost in the muddle.I would recommend this book to those who like addiction memoirs, or those who want to read about trying to heal a marriage.
Another big takeway for me was how when Glennon was feeling overwhelmed by pain, depression or anxiety, she'd focus on doing the "next right thing." Sometimes this was as simple as brushing her teeth or making breakfast; other times it meant doing yoga or just sitting still and trying to breathe deeply.
I didn't know anything about Glennon Doyle Melton prior to reading this book.
I had never read her blog or her previous work.
I was attracted to this mostly because of the cover and the title but also because I had read that she was a recovering alcoholic.This memoir is about her struggles with her husband's infidelity and to find herself.
I really enjoyed and got a lot out of the first 2/3 of this but then it went into way too much god and yoga for me.
I did really like her thoughts on pain and dealing with it but in the end this wasn't really what I was looking for.
This book was just what I needed to hear and read right now.
This book is a woman fighting to show up in the world and be her true self.
She says so many things that went right to my heart and are what I need to hear.
How she learned about love with oneself and with a partner was also an act of bravery.
I am guilty of having expectations about life and I think she is saying, you can only depend on the next clue or the next thing the small inside voice says.
Well, I was thoroughly impressed by Melton's work...so, well done, Oprah!Though I have little in common with the author other than being a wife, mother, writer, and sometimes chronic overachiever, there is so much to love here.
As a writer, I am familiar with the (insanely long) production cycle and there is 0% chance she was able to revise the book prior to publication.
Knowing about the separation going into the reading of this, there is not one thing, not a single speck that rings untrue.
I did not expect to love this book as much as I did.
Wildly disappointing, perhaps my expectations were too high and I am not the target market. Memoir seemed disjointed, self-absorbed and too self-congratulatory.
I consumed this book like I used to consume Stoli O with cranberry juice when I, too, was trying not to feel so much. I highlighted half the book, and that says enough, methinks.
I need to step back for more than my usual minute on this one.
My initial thoughts upon finishing, which will be formed with other thoughts into a likely brief but cohesive review:A Kindergartener has neither the attention span nor the interest to listen to that detailed diatribe about what sexy is, what we are being tricked into thinking it is, how it is being sold to us, what it really is.Maybe I shouldn't have listened to this on the heels of Hillbilly Elegy.One person's whiny is another person's clueless.I wonder if the now ex-husband regrets agreeing to having their secrets revealed, presuming he isn't receiving the same financial benefit that he would have had they remained together.
Balance is important.Hold, please...I'm trying to catch up on reviews.
I didn't love this, so I'm trying to think of how best to explain that.
It’s incredibly deep in many areas of life; trying to be your authentic self, learning how to communicate in an honest way to escaping into substance abuse, bulimia or meaningless sex.It’s hard for me to give a great review on this book.
There were times when I could not relate with some of the subjects the author was talking about in this book including bulimia, not enjoying sex to alcoholism.But then I would get to a part in the book that talked about grief and it consumed me.
I have never felt God when I went to church as a kid.In conclusion, I honestly think it will affect each reader in a different way when they read this book.
Just know that this book came along at the right time, which is why I gobbled it up.Our daughter is struggling at the moment and as a mother I want to love her and try to understand her but at the same time to be honest it is hard work and I live between guilt because I should have done better as a mum and worry about if she is going to be ok.
Glennon's story is raw and honest, but she has come out the other end, grown as a woman and has been able to encourage others by her honesty and giving Hope to thoes like us who are in the middle of the storm.
I didn't expect to finish this book in 6 hours.
I didn't expect to cry through it.
After hearing the author speak in Chicago, I didn't expect to see myself in this book.
This book is as honest and real as you could hope for.
I wish this book was out now so that I could buy copies for both my daughters, my sister, and all my nieces.
Everyone I know well can identify with parts of Glennon's journey.
I am sending this copy to my daughter, and then asking her to pass it to her sister.
Thank you for writing this, Glennon.
Just, no. I'm struggling to find something I liked about this book but I can't. I forced myself through it thinking it would eventually get better.
(But I was curious as to how she was going to finish the book, so that is where my readability score comes from, and clearly she can write.)On the overshare side...We hear about her sex life, and how much she doesn't like sex, really from the word go, then how her husband had porn, and subsequently, affairs - and while I don't agree with how he handled things - she was clearly not into it and not seeming to look to solve that very big issue in their relationship, so no surprise there - except she wonders why he fooled around when he was not getting any from her.
اینجوری خودت و زندگیت رو برای یه دنیا رو کردن خیلی ترسناکه و جرات خیلی زیادی میخواد.
I didn't know anything about the author going in and I found the first half of the book very compelling & I identified with a lot of the author's feelings even though I haven't personally experienced most of the trauma she has.
As soon as I finished the book, I went to Wikipedia to read more about the author and the ending of the book now seems especially weird given what's happened since it's release and some articles have referred to her as a "Christian mom blogger." This does her a disservice because if I'd seen her described that way prior to reading the book I definitely wouldn't have read it, yet I'm glad I did read it?
This came across as self indulgent and whiny to me. I often wondered how she remembered all these detailed conversations and events given that she says several times that she didn't write during this period, so i kept feeling like her recollections were perhaps disingenuous and crafted for the book. I'm surprised I even finished the book--if I hadn't been waiting for something new from the library and I wasn't trapped feeding a newborn for long stretches of time, I probably wouldn't have.
This book is like reading a person’s personal journal. I find that I do not like reading a person’s personal journal. I did not find it to be realistic or believable. And full of “I’s like this review.
That's partly because it's the kind of challenging and impactful book that is hard to condense down into a few words.This book had a different tone from Carry On, Warrior: Thoughts on Life Unarmed, where she shared her first journey of moving out of numbing addictions into full on facing both the good and bad of life.
Her young daughters get into an argument about whether the word "sexy" is bad and turn to their mother for resolution.
exactly the book I needed to read this month. Raw, open, glowing, and the first honest "self-help" type book I've read since Augusten Burrowes's. On a critical level, the dialogue all felt fake, Kent to convey the author's ideas rather than relate a real conversation that happened, and this took me out of the book somewhat, so that's why I'm stopping short of 5 stars - I wish she would've invented dialogue if necessary and kept those passages outside the quotation marks. Other than that, a truly incredible, powerful memoir.
I mostly loved this, but am uncomfortable that she wrote it when her kids were too young to consent to their inclusion. Am still pondering and struggling with this - would love to hear your thoughts.
Update: I was an early reader of this book and back in December 2015 said it could easily be an Oprah choice, and this morning it was announced it was indeed Oprah's next book club choice.Also, Glennon report on her blog that she and her husband have separated, which is very sad.
Definitely a winner for women's book groups and for those who can't wait for Oprah's memoir to be published--in fact, if Oprah still regularly did a book selection for her show, I could see if this as an easy choice.
