https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/612188.Memories_Dreams_Reflections
Or, conversely, I myself am a question which is addressed to the world, and I must communicate my answer, for otherwise I am dependent upon the world’s answer.” – Carl Jung; Memories, Dreams, Reflections.I know very little about psychology but it’s a subject I’m very interested in.
As Carl Jung put it, ““I was going about laden with thoughts of which I could speak to no one; they would have been misunderstood.” A lot of what Jung said greatly resonated with me and I wonder whether his Myer-Briggs typography was similar or the same as mine (INFJ).This is a book I think everybody should read.
I sought not facts but an answer to this question: Should I, Jon Medders, let myself be more like C.G. Jung?
See, Jung's narrative demonstrates a way to live one's life that I have often suspected might work well for me: minimize one's tendencies toward rational thought and maximize one's reliance on rationality's opposite (intuition, hunches, coincidences, God, the unconcious).
I will say that anyone who thinks that reason or intellectual conception provides the only valid basis for action in this world should take a close look at Jung's life and work.
Jung, benim hayatımda ve algı dünyamda çok etkili olmuş biri. Kendisinin, spirituel algısı ve insanın ele alışı aynı zamanda hem bir performanscı olarak müziksel algımda hem de eğitimci olarak çocuklar ve gençleri nasıl bir ayna olabileceğim konusunda hep yönlendirici olmuştur. Anılar, Düşler ve Düşünceleri için söyleyebileceğim tek şey kendi anılarınıza ve düşleriniza ayna tutacak bir yol gösterici, hem de Jung'u daha yakından tanımak için en iyi kitaplardan biri. İyi okumalar!
Why Memories, Dreams and Reflections is meaningful for me.I shall begin by telling you of an event that occurred to me at college but which had its genesis four years earlier and the subsequent consequences of which remain to be completely known.One evening when I was 14 years old I went to bed much as I always had done.
As a matter of fact we never discussed the matter again.This event brought back to the forefront the vision I had had four years earlier.It struck me one morning that if I could tell my professor of the premonition that perhaps I could entrust him with the Vision and the fear that had accompanied it.I went to his office and upon being invited in closed the door behind me and sat down and told him of my Vision.
"Loneliness does not come from having no people about one, but from being unable to communicate the things that seem important to oneself, or from holding certain views which others find inadmissible. The loneliness began with the experiences of my early dreams, and reached its climax at the time I was working on the unconscious ... But loneliness is not necessarily inimical to companionship, for no one is more sensitive to companionship than the lonely man, and companionship thrives only when
Outward happenings are naturally compensated by a wonderful portrait of the inner world of Jung, from his earliest childhood dreams to his lonesome school days, student years, relationship with Freud, and finally, my favourite chapter, his encounter with the unconscious—the onslaught of fantasies he experienced in his twenties that ultimately led to his development of analytic psychology.
Memories, Dreams, Reflections is a must-read for anyone interested in Jungian psychology.
I think reading Man and His Symbols and then this book would make the perfect introduction into the field.
At the end of the book are four appendixes, two of which are letters written to his wife when he was traveling in the US and then later in Africa.
This book is instead about Carl Gustav Jung's (1875 - 1961) theories, his philosophy and how it developed.
The book is very much an expression of Jung's views.
How his view changed is not clarified, and this could have been mentioned the first time around.In the latter half of the book Jung travels to Africa and India and Italy.
You need time to think when you read this book!

This is an amazing book, from a truly amazing man.
Some of the concepts that we toss around that came from Jung: * The concept of introversion vs.
extroversion * The concept of the complex * Myers-Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI) was inspired by Jung's psychological types theory.
* Socionics, similar to MBTI, is also based on Jung's psychological types.
He was truly unafraid, in a repressive time, to use whatever systems and methods, western or eastern, that would help.
I love Jung.
Seriously, for my birthday I got a t-shirt with Jung's big white face on it, and I wear it all the time.
As skeptical as I am about everything I have to admit that in my heart I'm monk who yearns for a religion.I love Jung because:His psycho-gospel is a path of intense personal spirituality.
Like when he says things such as, "Astrology is in the process of becoming a science," I have to wonder how scientific his science is.
It presents, I think, a man reposed in a world of his own making.
(You can find the better looking version of this review on my blog: http://elephantsonclouds.blogspot.com...)  Mystics, Gnostics, alchemists, Buddhists, Taoists, philosophers and many others were preoccupied with understanding the mind better. Jung studied all of them by himself, read anything that he could put his hands on about myths, ancient religions, behavior of the primitives. He also studied and interpreted his own dreams, taking into account symbols discovered in all the books he read, h
He also studied and interpreted his own dreams, taking into account symbols discovered in all the books he read, his visions, his memories, his encounters with other cultures and his patients’ behavior and connected in his mind all the knowledge he could get (and believe me, it is pretty clear in this book that he was like a sponge for any knowledge of this kind) and reached mindblowing conclusions.At the time when he became a psychiatrist, nobody really understood much how mental conditions could be treated and they were not even trying to find ways to help the patients.
وقتی انسان راه تفرد را دنبال می کند، وقتی زندگی خودش را زندگی می کند، باید خطاها را پبذیرد، زیرا زندگی بدون این اشتباهات کامل نمی شود و یا حتی برای یک لحظه تضمینی نیست که گرفتار خطا نشویم. شاید بیندیشیم راه امنی نیز وجود دارد، اما آن راه، راه مرگ خواهد بود: آنگاه دیگر چیزی رخ نخواهد داد، یعنی لااقل چیزهای درست. آن کس که راه مطمئن در پیش می گیرد با مرده فرقی ندارد...!
It is the most understandable book he has written and one I enjoy reading over and over!
Jung wrote this book as more of a case study than as an autobiography, giving you a first hand understanding of his inner process.
We do not usually get this kind of information from our great ones in psychology, rather we only get to read of their theories once formed and perhaps studies with their clients.
But we rarely are privileged to the inner story like Jung reveals in this book, with the history and questions about self, along with his process of introspection and self-discovery that propelled his curiosity of the human condition and lead him to formulate his psychological theories about the individuation process.
It also gives a very powerful insight into the way that myths can be opened up for personal growth & analysis.
Of course, if you want to get the most out of this book, it may help to have a book such as the Complete Works of Jung handy, so you can familiarize yourself with his terminology and the progress of his ideas.On the other hand, if you get pissed off when "scholars" begin sentences with "I think..." or "I feel...", leave it be.
He's completely fine with subjectivity.Read for the Immanence of Myth project www.modernmythology.net
Jung's autobiography was not really written by Jung.
As the cover says, it was "recorded and edited by Aniela Jaffe" between 1957 and his death in 1961.
She therefore deserves much credit for producing a readable narrative which is quite entertaining, though not to be completely trusted.I reread the book and indexed it when taking a course on Jung with the Institute of Pastoral Studies at Loyola University Chicago during the first semester of 1982/83.
Ironically, although the copy of the first edition I read had no index, a subsequent copy purchased did, so the work did not have its intended benefit.
"Единствената цел на човешкото съществуване е да палим светлината в мрака на чистото битие."Автобиографията на Юнг е толкова много неща в едно и всички от тях са на място.
И всичко това, докато се придържа към може би най-мъдрото нещо в тази книга, а именно:"Човек трябва да се наведе, за да гребне от потока."Юнг се навежда от името на всички ни и като се има на предвид, че е живял през най-променливото време в човешката история, именно началото на XX век, то нещата, които той осъзнава за природата на човека, не могат да бъдат подминати.
I haven't read any of his other works yet, so I don't know how "ready" I am to "get" the symbolism he seems to see in his subconscious expressions.
It was at least interesting for a while, but then I started finding the analyses to be tedious, far-fetched, and even anxiety-provoking.
I sure don't, and I'm too much of a psych-n00b to really get why.I started keeping a dream log as a result of this reading.
I had originally decided to read this book because I wanted to have more insight into my dreams, but I didn't realize what I was in for.
مبدئياً, الكتاب قرأته بالغلط...كنت متصوره موضوعه غير كدههو من مذكرات د/كارل يونج...طفولته, أحلامه الشخصيه, صراعه مع فرويدعجبتني نظريته عن الأحلام و إختلافاته مع فرويد فيهاإجمالاً: مع إني قرأت الكتاب بالغلط لكن عجبني و شجعني أقرأ لـ يونج قريباًملحوظه: الكتاب سمعته أوديو...وهي نسخه مختصره لكتاب حجمه حوالي 400 صفحه

In the prologue to Memories, Dreams, Reflections, Jung wrote, "In the end the only events in my life worth telling are those when the imperishable world interrupted into this transitory one.
I was curious of what he’d have to say about them, and surely these two women presented an inner experience interrupting between the imperishable world and Jung’s transitory world.
Here’s a brief quote, for example, from a section discussing transference: “For psychotherapy to be effective a close rapport is needed, so close that the doctor cannot shut his eyes to the heights and depths of human suffering.
What a fantastic, refreshing read!Jung makes a great point addressing the loss of myths in the modern society, giving insights on neuroses and psychosis, and above everything––the importance of exploring unconscious.
We get to know the most intimate of Jung’s core––his dreams.
I'd recommend this book to anyone.
One could find out not only a tone about Jung and his life but also about yourself.
I can't say it about many books, thus Memories, Dreams, Reflections is something very special, something to dwell on and taste its words.
همه آثار یونگ برای آنها که به دنبال پاسخگویی به سوال های مهمی در زندگی هستند، ارزشمند هستند. سوال هایی مانند اینکه آیا خواب های ما بخشی از زندگی واقعی ما هستند و آیا آنها می توانند زندگی روزمره ما را هدایت کنند؟ سوال هایی مانند اینکه آیا ما زندگی های دیگری در این کره زمین داشته ایم؟ و از همه مهم تر اینکه: من کیستم؟ من در چنبره زندگی، اسطوره، واقعیت، رویا و آرزو، کیستم؟
این کتاب رو استادم در اختیارم گذاشت تا بعد مطالعه در موردش تو کلاس صحبت کنم. مطالبی رو نت برداری کردم و دیگر مطالب عینی تر رو به خاطر سپردم ، بعد از ارائه کلاسی ریویو مفصلی خواهم نوشت. فردا یکشنبه. شانزدهم اردیبهشت 1397. در مورد کتاب و موضوعش و اتفاقات زندگی کارل گوستاو یونگ.و تاثیر این اتفاقات در شخصیت او صحبت خواهم کرد..
- he had one dream about a house in which deeper levels corresponded to different levels of consciousness, which was cool and reminded me of *Inception* (which was Jungian) - respect Jung's intellectual honesty in breaking with Freud and being temporarily isolated from his intellectual peers as a result- interesting how he started building castles with blocks as he did when he was 10 or 11 in order to deal with anxiety ("psychic disturbance") he was having, reminds me of Charlie Hoehn's idea to "play" (charliehoehn.com/2013/05/19/how-i-cur...‎) - in order to interpret dreams in Jungian style, it seems that one must posses broad knowledge of myths.
a: his family and his professional work> "it was most essential to have a normal life in the real world as a counterpoise to that strange inner world" lesswrong.com/lw/nb/something_to_prot...‎12) q: Accd to Jung, there is no better means of intensifying the feeling of individuality than what?
The world into which we are born is brutal and cruel, and at the same time of divine beauty. Which element we think outweighs the other, whether meaninglessness or meaning, is a matter of temperament.
He is redeemed by statements such as, "Prejudice cripples and injures the full phenomenon of psychic life."There's enough material on metaphysics, psychology, mythology, self-help, and religion/blasphemy to function as reference.
I'm confident that Memories, Dreams, Reflections will be the best psychology/philosophy book I'll read this year.He's greatly impacted my life and I'd like to inspire others to give him a chance.
If certain persons lose their heads nowadays, a hydrogen bomb will go off."(Here's a link to the PBS documentary The Wisdom of the Dream on youtube.
Since Jung investigated the Psyche all his life, and perceived his research to be a scientific one, and the Psyche to be "an object" on a par and as real as anything we can see and touch, one gets from this autobiography a description in which the line between factual, emotional and intellectual (and even between subjective and objective) becomes blurred.Mystical, mythical, engaging and never boring (apart from some 20 pages near the end) it gives as good a hint as possible into Jung's psyche and explorations, preparing the ground for whoever wishes to explore these issues further and consult Jung's other/real writings.As to the validity of Jung's conceptual and factual framework?I suspect my personal psych is not as spiritual as Jung's was, and my unconscious not so accessible to me as Jung's was to himself, so in this regard I am in no way in a position to give value judgements on Jung's work and ideas.
What I love so much about this book was his more human moments where he showed himself to struggle with the same mundane elements of life that the rest of do.
The first human moment that Jung discusses is his frustration with learning Math as a child.
I think there are pros and cons to Empiricism but to me its most dangerous is when it is so completely absorbed by Scientists that they sacrifice part of their own humanity for it and start discounting subjective experience despite that it is the primary way through which all of humanity gains an understanding of the world around them.
I can't give this book an overall rating because I so dislike Jung as he presents himself here (or it may be the way the material was assembled by his editor).
He seems to take himself intensely seriously to the point of pomposity, and seems to take a peculiar pride in being self-contractory, which in others might prove endearing but with him comes across is annoying and grouchy.All that said, there were certainly points in the narrative when he brings up strikingly original outlooks on the workings of the mind and shows a broad concern for the human condition.

Kitap öncelikle ismi yüzünden çok çekici duruyor, içerik açısından da doyurucu bilgiler var, zira yazarın otobiyografisi. Ancak Jung hakkında verdiği bilgiler tamamen cesaret kırıcı. Batıl inançlarını hararetli bir şekilde anlatışı, Freud'a yönelttiği saldırılar, onu küçük görmesi, kendi ismini fazlasıyla yüceltmesi gibi şeylerle tipik bir "kendini övme" hissettim.
