https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/992960.Choo_Choo
Looking for books on trains for my 2-yr-old twins, I was pleasantly surprised to find this written by Burton, the author of one of my favorite childhood books, Mike Mulligan and the Steam Shovel. The same beautiful illustrations and detailed story line as the Steam Shovel, Choo Choo instead talks about a steam engine and his daily woes. A book my 5-yr-old got into as well, we loved this one as a family.
First sentence: Once upon a time there was a little engine.
Choo Choo is the story of a little engine who is a bit naughty.
This doesn't work out well for her!!!My thoughts: I haven't decided if Choo Choo is more or less naughty than Thomas the Tank Engine.
It is a bit text-heavy so this one might be great for train lovers with a longer attention span.
(Freight Train is light on text, Choo Choo is NOT.) But the illustrations are what really make this one so delightful.
Text: 4 out of 5Illustrations: 5 out of 5Total: 9 out of 10
My children have enjoyed the books of Virginia Lee Burton nearly as much as I did when a young boy.
This particular book is not nearly as well-known as Mike Mulligan and His Steam Shovel or Katy, but it still has the same appeal as the other books.
This particular book deals with a train that wants to be a little more than it is -- it wants to go faster and easier -- by itself, without pulling any coaches.
Classic story about a train engine named, (what else?) 'Choo-Choo' who is fed up with lugging passengers and freight around and wants to set off on her own to show everyone just how fast and splendid she really is.
Of course, chaos ensues (as well as confusion and delay)This was Virginia Lee Burton's first book, who wrote it for her son when he was four after they had visited the train station.
The artwork is very dated (AND SHOULD NEVER BE UPDTATED!) It is splendid just the way it is, although I wouldn't say no to some color.
The text however, is a bit cheesy.
Her owners retrieve her from her exhausted solitude, and she decides that since running away "isn't much fun," she will return to her job.The story is exceptionally well written, with a dramatic pacing that builds to an exciting climax as Choo Choo tears across the countryside.
Highly auditory pre-readers will especially enjoy the repetition and sound effects that punctuate the story, giving it a rhythm and sense of excitement.
The story is action-packed, and carries the simple message that those who try to escape their responsibilities may find that their "freedom" isn't all they imagined it to be.
We found a Netflix treat: we just watched Shelley Duvall's Bedtime Stories, which features animated adaptations of children's storybooks with celebrity narrators.
This story was narrated by Bonnie Raitt and we just loved the format.
It reminded us of the Tumblebooks animations that we occasionally watch online.
As the book is narrated, we followed along with a slightly animated version of the illustrations.
It was very entertaining and we really enjoyed watching all of the episodes on the DVD.
This is a fun story of a wayward engine who gets into and out of trouble.
Still, it has an entertaining quality that has stood the test of time.
Yet another superior picture/story book by the American master Virginia Lee Burton - even the drawing of her son on the dedication page is lovely. A little engine that longs to break free and explore. When the chance arrives things get a little out of control. Luckily Choo Choo has lots of friends and in the end comes to appreciate things just as they've always been. The black and white art work is evocative and illustrate the action perfectly. I'd place this one alongside the best of Burton's books like Mike Mulligan and His Steam Shovel and The Little House.
Read a Kindle version through the library READS system. Almost great throughout for a Kindle translation of a picture book except for one page. I'm glad we have a physical copy.Read physical copy for MP 1st enrichment.
This was my son's absolutely favorite book when he was around three years old. A true classic!
So, I then picked up another book by Virginia Lee Burton called “Choo Choo” which was quite a unique read and is one that I would definitely recommend for children!The story is about a beautiful little locomotive named Choo Choo who would pull trains from the city to the country and back again every day.
Choo Choo: The Story of a Little Engine Who Ran Away.
Somehow, this story manages to animate that lost world of the tiny coal-fed locomotive, train station, crossings, the whistle and the bell, the track meandering through the countryside past the cows, horses, and pigs.
Traveling way too fast, she wreaks havoc everywhere she goes, until finally she ends up on a dusty unused track, run out of fuel.
Lesson learned: Choo Choo doesn't like ending up all alone, and she thankfully goes back to her duties.
There is a film about Virginia Lee Burton that I'd like to see.
This reprint of Burton’s first published book is still entertaining for a whole new generation of readers.
Choo-Choo, a small coal engine, gets tired of her routine and takes a fast paced joyride through the countryside and city until she ends up stranded in the forest on an abandoned track.
Her faithful caretakers rescue her and she happily gets back to work.
Burton’s hand is heavy with the charcoal – an appropriate touch in a book about a coal engine, and time has lent a nostalgic air to the otherwise colorful illustrations.
A simple, fun story that is warmly welcomed back to library and family bookshelves.
This book is definitely of its time, meant for when most kids had much longer attention spans (maybe because there were less options in the way of tv screens & monitors?) so it's definitely on the longish side for its intended age group. However, my test subject loves trains so much that it was still a hit with him at 2 1/2. The new anniversary edition is just lovely, too - I don't know why illustrations were so commonly printed in black-&-white, but seeing them freshly colorized really gave them an impact.
I like this book because she runs away, but running way you don't do if you're a person. And they should've said "report!" like my papa always says when he can't see me, when I don't run away (something like that). And sometimes when I don't see papa I say "REPORT!"Virginia Lee Burton also wrote The Little House, which we've never read.
January 2018 - charmingly old-fashioned (although a bit disappointing that poor Choo Choo doesn't end up enjoying her day off) - immediate hit with Ben. A bit on the longer side, but good for a read-aloud.
After reading (at least 15 times) a very well done biography about Virginia Lee Burton with kids as the target audience, my son is obsessed with the author/illustrator's books. We'd read about Mike Mulligan and Katy, but had choo choo and a few others to read.
This is cute book especially for my 4 year old who is really into trains.
Originally published in 1937, this new edition features color illustrations.
A little train engine tires of pulling a coach full of people and baggage from the little town to the big city, so she runs away. Big trouble!
Did not disappoint me at all. Loved it.
These charcoal illustrations are very dynamic. It's a longer story, but with all of the onomatopoeia involved, this would definitely be a fun one to read out loud.
We love Virginia Lee Burton, and this book is one of our favorites! A classic story about running away and finding it's not all it's cracked up to be.
Adorable.I read this book as part of my journey to read all of Virginia Lee Burton's complete works.
There are recurring themes throughout her books regarding the personalities, ambitions, and "adventures" of vehicles.
But, Burton's books are different.I like Choo Choo for it telling a story within a confined frame.
She "runs" off away from the cars she's been pulling to try and achieve this.
It is a good fable about what it means to go good work, to be humble, and why you should be careful not to get lost.This is a great story for younger children, particularly those enamored with vehicles.
Choo Choo is tired of her humdrum life as a commuter train and decides to run away, pursued by her engineer and the rest of her staff.
It's a decent read - and the art is nice - but it isn't as deft or emotionally compelling as her other works.
4DS/2DD were OK with it but haven't been pursuing me with demands for a re-read the way they did with Burton's more popular trio (Mike Mulligan and His Steam Shovel/The Little House/Katie and the Big Snow).
I absolutely love the cover design on this one. I like the style of the illustrations. I also like the way the text is set in different shapes. I did not like the train's name being in all caps all the time. CHOO CHOO gets pretty annoying if only for that. I also wasn't a huge fan of the story itself—it's well enough done, I just didn't like it. It reminds me a lot of Tootle, which I don't love either.
I love Virginia Burton's illustrations so much. It's unfortunate they're black-and-white only, but they're still so nice and homey. The story is interesting -- a runaway train regrets it when she ends up stuck and needs help. It's a nice moral, I suppose -- you need to be able to work with others and share the rewards or else you will end up all alone (though your village will always come after you). It's sweet.(My used copy has written in it: Tammy.)
I read this with my toddler and it was a little involved for his age. The illustrations are black and white, so they couldn't keep his interest for very long either Choo Choo is an adorable story, but I don't think I'll be purchasing it for my son's library. Maybe it's because of the antiquated style, or that it was simply too long.~AH
Buku yang mendasar soal kereta. Damar senang sekali walau gambarnya hitam putih. Karena yang diceritakan hal-hal yang mendasar heheh. Peluitnya, asapnya, mekaniknya, fireman-nya, stasiun, thilu-thilu alias perlintasan kereta api, lonceng, penumpang naik, kereta melewati desa yang berhias kuda dan hewan ternak lainnya :P. Sangat klasik.
Purchased this book on a recent trip to ride the old train at the Strasburg Railroad. The Little House is one of my childhood favorites and my five year old son also enjoys Ms. Burton's other stories. This is a great addition to his bookshelf. I like the old fashioned black and white illustrations and they kept my son's attention too. Great story, especially for little rail fans!
Abel is suddenly really into trains, so this is great for him right now. the train engine runs away and discovers why it's not as fun as she thinks it will be. I love how she jumps an open drawbridge and loses her tender. Good plot device!
