https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6564.Cry_for_the_Strangers
Brad Randall and his wife Elaine (from Seattle) decide to live in Clark's Harbor (Washington) for a year.
Brad is a psychiatrist who is writing a book and the small coastal town seems like the perfect place to do it, away from all the distractions back home.
And now the strangers are dying in violent, mysterious ways...I really enjoyed this book.
I liked the Randall's neighbors (Glen and Rebecca Palmer) and their story concerning their nine-year-old son Robby who suffered from hyperkinesis (whose condition miraculously improved after moving to Clark's Harbor).
I liked the setting and atmosphere of the coastal town.Another captivating read by John Saul.
Cry for the Strangers is broken up into three parts — Book One, Book Two, Book Three — and therein lies much of the problem with this story about a fictional seaside town called Clark’s Harbor and the four people who have moved there and find it not welcoming to strangers.Book One is the best portion, John Saul doing a wonderful job of setting everything up, ratcheting up the creepiness as old legends and some mysterious deaths come into play, as do the townspeople.
Saul is a good writer, but I can’t help feeling this story would have made a wonderful, perhaps even memorable, read had it not been padded.
The mystery kept me reading, to find out what was going on and how people were being killed.
I found myself looking forward to reading the book, which is always a good sign.Towards the end though, there were a few things which started to undermine it for me.The kids just kept going outside in the middle of the night, despite the fact that there was a killer on the loose, and despite the fact that the parents were aware of them having previously climbed out of the window.
As if you would just sit at home while your loved ones were out in a storm with a serial killer on the loose!
Well, Goodreads ate my long review, and I'm too pissed about that to rewrite it eloquently, so here's the bare-bones: "Cry for the Strangers" is a good read--interesting characters, well drawn locations, an initial sense of dread that escalates nicely into full-blown creepiness. The ending, however, was slipshod and unsatisfying, in my opinion. The novel deserved a better ending than it received. Now I'll try and save this again. sheesh
I love all the books of John saul...his books are scary,to the point,and he maintaines the same tempo throughout the book..
Just okay. Kind of repetitive. Kind of predictable. Could have been a short story.
This was ok. It felt like it needed more work though, the ending was a bit lame, felt a bit like one of those irritating lead-ins to a next book in a series. I was given a few books by this author by a neighbour, I quite liked them but reading them in quick succession, I can't help feeling they are a tad 'Nora Roberts', as in the author has a formula and runs with it. Kids, dead pets and weather carrying bad vibes are his thing apparently.
On my trip home from Oklahoma I read this on Audible Audiobook for my many hours of driving.I enjoyed this book and may re-read it with no interruptions. Like looking for deer and critters.I do like a good John Saul book! :)
Kick ass. There is a dark cloud that hovers over every page of this book. You will probably figure out who the killer is right away. And still keep reading. The characters in the town, coupled with legends, old secrets and silly newcomers and their plans make for a great story. Sands of death!
Het vissersdorp zag er zo onschuldig, vriendelijk en uitnodigend uit dat de verleiding niet te weerstaan was.Maar waarom zijn de dorpsbewoners zo ongastvrij en openlijk vijandig?
Waarom vallen vreemdelingen ten prooi aan een noodlot dat hun op gruwelijke wijze de dood insleurt Waarom zijn het alleen vreemdelingen die slachtoffer worden en blijven de oorspronkelijke bewoners bewaard?
Dit is wel een van de slechtere boek van Saul die ik heb gelezen.
Zowel zijn agent als Dell waren laaiend enthusiast en zagen in dit verhaal een bestseller.
Naast auteur is Saul ook acteur, scriptschrijver en is 1 van zijn boeken in 1984 uitgebracht als film.
With a few exceptions, all rely on the standard Saul construct for a novel with different characters, settings and circumstances.I’ve said in earlier reviews that Saul doesn’t flesh out his characters any more than is necessary to tell his story and none of the characters in this story are particularly deep.
If Saul needed to be an omniscient narrator, he should have taken us into Harney’s head when he was maniacal.Saul does do a good job of creating the setting of the remote, unfriendly fishing village on the coast of Washington; constantly beset by storms and cold weather.
Perhaps it’s because Saul grew up in Washington that he is able to set the scene so well.Saul is fun and easy to read.
* The people of the small, Pacific-coast fishing town of Clark's Harbor don't like strangers.
Neither did the people of Cornwall Coombe, the small farming community of Tryon's "Harvest Home." The difference is, we understand why the corn-loving farmers don't like them.
The people of Clark's Harbor are just unreasonably rude.
I should think pity would be a more appropriate reaction.* I read this first as a teenager, and I must have liked it quite a bit, because I went on to buy several more books by John Saul.
You can't really dislike a book like that, although you won't feel that great about conquering it, either.
Sadly, this book did NOT stand the test of time. I vaguely remember reading it many, many moons ago. Now that I read it again, I understand why (unlike many of John Saul's other books) I only read it once. The reason it took me so long to read is that I seriously considered not finishing it. If you are new to John Saul, skip this one and try "Comes the Blind Fury", "The Unloved", or "The Unwanted" instead.
Made the mistake of watching the TV movie first. The book is way better of course. Saul has a way of bringing you into the world he created giving you believable characters and terrific atmosphere and setting. A fun read.
I love the writings of John Saul
good
An okay book, not as suspenseful, gripping or violent as some of his other books. But it does keep with the creepy children trope he's so fond of. Not his best.
All in all not bad, although there could be some more action. Some passages are a bit lengthy.The solution of the scenario is very interesting.
this book is amazing one of my favorite john books, i used to only read him and this is one of his most captivating reads!!
I've read this book several times in the past twenty years. I still love it!!
This is a very good book. It definitely made me want to read more from John Saul.
I loved John Saul in highschool and I am really enjoying rereading his books! Well written and suspenseful
If you like suspense......cannot say enough about this author...easy reading yet great plot!
The first book i've read from John Saul. I fell in love with it.
sub par for Saul. to be frank Saul is sub-par, but quick reads
I read this book many years ago (early 80's), so I could not give an accurate review. I have it listed in my records as a "good read".
*Contains spoilers*I love this author but this book was very dry. It was not suspenseful or scary. It needed more "meat" to the storyline. Also - John must not have gotten the memo that no one cares who dies in the book but the dog needs to live". ☺
I love the idea of a haunted beach. Storm’s coming...
Predictable Ending.This book ended exactly as I thought it would. But it kept my interest well enough throughout. Not the best John Saul
Creeped me out as a kid. One Saul Bellows was plenty!
