https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35870.Ghost_in_the_Shell
I also read the sequel and watched the associated anime that it inspired.
A MUST READ before the movie comes out - or after you watch it.
They will surely not be able to cover the variety of adventures in this volume so it will be interesting to see whether they use the anime as a basis or go off on a different story altogether.
There are many possibilities which is one of the things which is so great about this manga.The film - like the anime - is a sort of prequel to this volume.
It later became one of the landmarks of the genre, especially after being adapted countless times into TV series, movies and video games.This album is mostly a series of procedural supercop dramas set in the near future.
These stories seem, for the most part, somewhat formulaic.The theme of this manga has evident cyberpunk undercurrents: Major Kusanagi is a cyborg made of robotic body parts (a “shell”, big boobs included) and a human mind (a “ghost”, you get it).
On the whole, Ghost in the Shell is the work of a young man (Shirow was twenty-something at the time), with spontaneity, a lot of ideas and mastery of artwork, but in the end, comes across as a little stringy.
The ambition of the piece is obvious: It explores 21st century man vs machine AI issues, with a cyborg female Major Kusanagi who kicks ass and looks like what some people hope to see at Hooters, I suppose.
I mean, the tale is not all that original in its effects--the strong girl and girly shoot-em-up bits, which are the main thing, it's an action comic or looks like it, mostly, and as I said, the dialogue and characterizations are not its greatest strengths--but the fundamental corse of the story, the resistance to totalitarianism that is the main part of the story is good and well though out and interesting.
Maybe I'm stupid.
Maybe it's an issue with the translations.
Maybe Masamune Shirow is just an incredibly obtuse writer.
I repeatedly felt that the books were written as though Mr. Shirow automatically expected us to understand certain things that were not explained - almost as if one were required to see the thought processes that went into the writing - the constant, unexplained references to 'ghosts' is a good example.
Were these 'ghosts' supposed to be memory?
As a big fan of cyberpunk, I probably should have read this a lot sooner.
As it was, it was mostly the arrival of the live-action movie that finally drove me to get to it.
To be honest, I'm really not a fan of manga.
Elements of how it's generally drawn as well as a general lack of interest has led to staying away from that style for the most part.
Probably worth reading if you're a fan of the cyberpunk genre and haven't previously picked this up.
This is the book that, in my opinion, closed down cyberpunk as a literary current, in 1991.
It is what the matrix tried to become, a meld of style, futurism and religious take on that basic cyberpunk question, what it means to be human.It is a very dense book, difficult to follow and with lots of subtext and unreliable narrators.
It is also incredibly well drawn and laid out.
It is self contained, which is also rare on this genre.It still feels fresh and up to date, which just pays homage to its long term vision.Only its abstruseness and deliberate doubt induction keeps it from a perfect score.
However, in the way he explores them is through a pretty ramshackle odyssey where the protagonists jumping from one mission to another, while supporting characters appear and just disappear without set-up or indeed execution.With cyberbunk being Shirow’s genre, this book, like a lot of his manga such as Dominion Tank Police, the tone jumbles from being philosophical existentialism to slapstick comedy.
So disappointed that I can't finish this manga. I know it's a classic. I never figured out what was going on. I also have a problem with 80's hair and clothes distracting me from vintage manga and old movies, but that's my own issue. I think I might check out the anime, though.I did appreciate Motoko's sense of humor but it wasn't enough to get me through this book.
Vote 4 (5 if you are a diehard fan of the GITS anime like me)After a Ghost in the Shell anime marathon where my wife and me watched in less than 2 weeks Mamoru Oshii's 1995 anime masterwork, the awful 2.0 recent version with 3d sequences added, 2nd movie Innocence, first and second season/gig of Stand Alone Complex series, the GITS SAC movie, the Arise prequel miniseries and at last the live action movie that was far better then expected (sadly the whitewashing critics and low incomes killed the franchise on birth), it was really time for me to re-read Masamune Shirow's original manga.It was just a great cyberpunk/action read, the characters were funnier and less developed than the anime series (but for Togusa(view spoiler)[, and the scene of Mayor Kusanagi shooting virtual lesbian porn movies in #2 issue was really weird!
I was completely confused from page one, I felt I had come in half-way through a hard sci-fi series.
The Plot was all over the place and the characters were hard to keep up with.The sexy-lesbian-android bit wasn't even a smutty little offshoot, it was just porn for porns sake and the artwork went from absolutly beautiful to something my little brother could draw.
Though each of the chapters in this collection is a good read in its own right, Ghost in the Shell fails to deliver a cohesive over-arching narrative where everything is loosely bound together with a surprisingly generic amount of counter-terrorism action.But given some more time, one would definitely appreciate the many, many things GitS tries to conver to its readers, from the very shallow fan service quips in the illustrations to the quantum physics stuff about the mind, soul and ghosts.
There are many times that the manga is very hard to follow, especially when Shirow throws all these political names and random scientific stuff out of nowhere.
And besides, Ghost in the Shell does that thing hard sci fi occasionally does, namely expect you to fill in the blanks regarding world-building.After seeing the 2017 movie, I felt that this was a very different sort of story: Scarlett Johansson creates a character who is palpably different and who feels cyber indeed, while the manga's Major is very much like a normal woman who occasionally wonders if she's actually human, considering the fact that she's a brain+spine in an artificial body.It's an interesting story (and different from the movie), but I'm happy I didn't get it at full price.
Meno drammatico e profondo del film, ma le tematiche ci sono tutte.I fondamenti della filosofia dell'essere trattati con maestria non so quanto consapevolmente.Bello ma caotico.
I'm late to all of this—too late, probably—but I recently watched Ghost in the Shell (the 1995 animated film, not the more recent one with Scarlett Johansson).
Also, I didn't really understand a lot of what happened in the movie, which made me feel dumb.Looking at reviews online, I noticed several that recommended reading Masamune Shirow's original graphic novel, which helps understand the movie.
Shirow's geeky arrogance in his notes throughout the book was unappealing to me (and often didn't help me understand the story at all anyway).I guess my final conclusion is that Ghost in the Shell, whatever the format, is not for me.
I feel most invested in the lives of the Fuchikomas at this point.The chapters that I enjoyed most were the ones that went more into worldbuilding than action - the making of cyborgs, and the measures against AI sedition were great.I did quite like the oldschool expressiveness of the art, and the 4th wall breaking notes on the side of panels were charming rather than irritating.
Save me from the cyborg nipples please, I never want to see them again.I probably will, though, because I am intrigued enough by the bizarre technobabble philosophy dump at the end to keep an eye out for Volume 2 and see how the story evolves.
Wow. Well, let me put it this way: It's almost entirely very dense philosophy and politics, broken up with the occasional blast of gunfire or flash of nudity.
I probably like the movie a bit better.
This just felt a bit too fragmented and episodic for its own good.
Anyway, it's still pretty much required reading for cyberpunk enthusiasts, it also serves as a decent intro to information theory and philosophy of machinery/cybernetics if you read along with Shirow's notes in the back.
His politics kind of weird me out sometimes, but no doubt the man has a fascinating mind (or is that ghost?).
Předloha dnes již legendárního anime. Pro fanoušky komiksů a mangy "must have" záležitost. Pokud jste viděli film s Scarlett Johansson a nepobrali vše, nebo měli dojem, že je tam ještě nějaké "cosi", tak tohle vám trochu pomůže si vše urovnat. Hollywood vše tak trochu zjednodušil, ale i díky tomuhle filmu pánove z Crew tuhle mangu vydali. Oproti anime nebo filmu je manga rozdělena do devíti dílů - povídek. Na mangu i komiks neskutečně natřískané obsahem, jsou tu i poznámky pod čarou :)
In this new hardcover deluxe edition by Kodansha Comics, fans can rejoice in the collection of Major’s original story arc, a couple of coloured pages at the beginning or end of each chapter, an afterword by the author as well as an extensive amount of endnotes (written in an extremely small font size and merged within the margins as often as possible) by the author himself.Set in the mid-twenty-first century, The Ghost in the Shell explores a world where humans and machines rely upon each others biology to enhance their abilities and to blur the differences between each other within the human world.
El mundo que recrea Masamune Shirow en esta obra es tan rico como las anotaciones a pie de página que abundan en la obra.
El estilo de un por aquel entonces prematuro Shirow puede resultar tosco y cargante para las nuevas generaciones, y sin ninguna duda echara para atrás para quien no tenga paciencia con lecturas densas y en algunos casos divulgativas.
Lo único que le achaco a esta edición que las páginas son muy pequeñas para tanto texto y las escenas sobrecargadas de Shirow a veces cuesta interpretarlas.
Uneven, with good parts and more averaged one. The story is complex and probably would benefit from being re-read.
in contrast to night cityscapes and neon blue, the modern world is still pretty recognizable in the form of 20th century architecture, but if we have less hacker violence and biomechanical implants (the book is set in 2029), on the other hand, a lot of tokyo seems cleaner and more well run than the chaotic neo city protrayed in GotSthis is considered the best of japanese cyberpunk comic books, so definitely worth a look by any cyberpunk fan, but of course most cyberpunk fans are already familiar with j aesthetics.
A concept is introduced at the beginning of the book, and then referred back to every now and again throughout mostly unrelated political escapades before finally getting wrapped up in the last chapter.
Shirow clearly knows his stuff, and the book is filled with interesting ideas that are often communicated intriguingly through the art.
As one can only expect (I suppose) there's quite a bit of unnecessary nudity, and a few smutty scenes here and there; often displayed in full colour at the beginning of chapters as opposed to where the rest of the story is in traditional black and white.
The artwork is just ugly, and not especially original, apart from the changes from black and white to color (and to tell you the truth, it looks more like he wanted color but was too lazy to follow up on it).
The plot is difficult to follow, not because the ideas are so complicated, but because the panels are poorly chosen and ordered.
Moreover, the insistence on drawing almost completely naked female bodies in every page and scores of violent scenes reminds me of the teenage boy equivalent of the likes of Diana Gabaldon and Jane Auer.
I was so bored and baffled by this comic that I gave up halfway through.
Just re-read this. Pretty good, but it's clear that much of what made the movie really great had more to do with Oshii than Shirow.
A lot of the drama of the fiction is based around high-level organs of government with, so far as I can see, barely any fucking oversight, trying to dick each other around in various ways, and that stemming from both personal ego and ambition, along with corruption,and also differing views on what it's reasonable to do to protect or advance the interests of Future Japan when you are on the moral and political bleeding edge of things happening.
Toto je můj šálek kávy. Před lety jsem viděl animované filmy, seriál, loni hraný film a konečně jsem se vrátil na počátek - komiks. Chvílemi jsem byl rozpačitý - často jsem se ztrácel, děj či detaily, jako například názvy se lišily (tachikoma vs fuchikoma), ale pak jsem nějak přijal, že jde o předchůdce, jiný svět, a najednou jsem začal zase objevovat skryté poklady. Nejprve ty nastražené, jako jsou komentáře a poznámky mezi okénky, později drobné detaily a nakonec jsem měl radost z dočtené knihy a stoupající napětí, než se dostanu k pokračování.
2.5AYLReto2017 #23. Tendrá película en el 2017.Suuper aburrido y confuso.Nada de lo que yo esperaba.Después de ver el trailer de la película, no puedo creer que el libro sea tan malo.Solo espero que los cineastas y los guionistas hayan hecho sus respectivas oraciones para esta peli.
Don't get why people love this so much. It's honestly one of the most boring mangas I've ever read
i saw the animation , and i saw the movie , now it came down to the book , hope i like it
