https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/139418.The_Silver_Kiss
This is what Twilight wanted to be, I think.
It was published in 1990 and so the themes are a bit dated (no emails, cellphones etc.), but it didn't rob the story of anything.
I finished the slim novel in a day and a half.
I couldn't help but compare the two characters with those of "Twilight." The heroine, Zoe, was flawed and insecure but focused and honest.
The story flowed effortlessy, never bogged by the themes it discussed: death, family, loneliness...It was a perfect read for a gloomy day.
It's quite rare for a novel to make an impression on me (there were tears).
I could sympathize with Zoe, and I can certainly understand her 'why me' thoughts about her mother's sickness and how it has affected her life.Simon comes into Zoe's life during this crucial time.
Simon doesn't realize how much his arrival into her life will help Zoe to deal with her mother's eventual demise.
You want something eternal to come out of it, but realize that that is not possible because of what Zoe is and what Simon is.
so Twilight saw the light of Hollywood and this one didn't???well FUCK YOU HOLLYWOOD! FUCK......YOU!anyways... it was a decent quick read with a beautiful clean ending....definately one of the better vampire novels out there...
Ehhh....this was a little clumsy, and definitely read like a first novel, but it is apparently a classic of the teen vampire genre. I liked some of the dramatic language and scenes, and especially Simon and Zoe's first kiss, but it never really lead anywhere. Also, I got totally bored when Simon started telling his origin story...it went on forever.
la sinopsis solo decia de una chica que estaba enamorada de un vampiro de 300 años o 3000 ( eso estaba raro pero bueno) nada mas.
su libro marca de lobo tiene casi la misma cantidad de hojas y contaba mas hechos , mas sucesos y tenia una cosas mas complicada ( jajajaja , quien lo diria ) pero esto es demasiado sencillo para tantas hojas , asi que siendo sincera HABIA RELLENO.el relleno tambien tiene su función , el chiste es hacerlo sin que parezca aburrido.
Simon seems to understand the pain of loneliness and death and Zoe's brooding thoughts of her dying mother.
Simon is one of the undead, a vampire, seeking revenge for the gruesome death of his mother three hundred years before.
Okay, now I'm not saying this was an introspective novel, just that it was more so than Blood and Chocolate.
It seemed that at times the author was trying to get an important life lesson across to her teen readers, which is kind of where I was going with that comment.Anyway, now that I got that out of the way, this book did have it's good points as well.
I hadn't really expected much out of The Silver Kiss because it seems like some people just don't like it all that much.
The two connect and it's like a Twilight prequel.
And, I admit, the romance wasn't the greatest, but I still felt their connection and that's all I needed.
The ending made me cry.And I really liked the short stories included in mine, Summer of Love and The Christmas Cat. Without Summer of Love, I don't think I would have liked Simon as much as I did.
Wow. My new favorite vampire novel!
It's the kind of cry where tears and snot mix but you don't care to the point where you can't even see properly because your eyes are flooded with tears and it's 5 am and you're half howling half sobbing in your pillow because you can't stop crying and you're afraid of waking up the entire house and let them find you looking like a mess in the wee hours of the morning.
THE CHARACTERS DID THE RIGHT THING NO MATTER HOW MUCH IT HURTS.I'm kinda glad that Simon and Zoe's relationship didn't lead anywhere.
IT CAN'T LEAD TO ANYWHERE because Simon's a vampire and no matter how much I like him, I still want him dead.
Picture sad whiny teen who "no one understands" and you've got the makings of this book.
For him to be 300 years old, he doesn't seem to have grown up at all and still behaves as if he's the same age she is.Zoe is selfish and seems to beg for your pity.
Her mother's dying of cancer and every other page seems to say "Look at me, my mother is dying and my father is beginning to feel sad.
Even the love between Zoe and Simon sucks.
Zoe knows Simon's story, but who is he really.
But when she sees the silver boy at the park and later downtown, she allows herself to get caught up in another’s past and pain.After centuries of hunting, Simon is nearer to carrying out his revenge on the monster that killed his mother.
When he meets Zoё, however, he is able to feel an emotion other than the hatred he’s carried with him for so long, one that could put her in much more danger than she would ever dream possible.Ultimately about grief and accepting death, The Silver Kiss is a love story between a mortal girl and a creature of the night, something not too out of the ordinary in the teen-vampire genre.
Zoe ha 17 anni ma non è una 17enne come le altre.Non pensa alle feste, non pensa ai ragazzi e nemmen
This novel was written long before the industry destroyed the YA vampire genre... and it is SO good! I loved the message of this book. In this novel, the protagonist lost her mom to cancer and is struggling with her overwhelming grief. When she meets a vampire, she's given the choice to live forever. But is it better to live a short, but good life, knowing it will end eventually? Or is it better to live an eternal life of solitude and damnation? I love this book so much!
This book opened up the door to my love for reading. I remember checking this book out from the school library, about 18 years ago, and loved it! I believe Simon was my first vampire love. A couple of years back, I remembered this book being the one that stayed with me. So I searched for it online and found a copy. I've shared it with my daughters and now they love it too. Love this book!
XD ) Okay let me get this straight.What's-her-face: Lonely and has a dying motherSimon: A vampire who's mother was killed by the kid who made him into a vampire who's technically over like 5 billion years old (And yes I WILL over exaggerate!) and made him 'cause he's special...?
Boy let's himself to the sun (Whoops forgot to mention that both kid creator and Simon are VAMPIRES *eye role*) he dies even though he loves girl.
girl cries happy tears in the end even though the boy she JUST MET died and she feels for went and killed himself.
in a sentence: Zoe's really hit the trifecta - her mom is terminally ill with cancer, her best friend is moving away, and she met (was stalked by) a sexy vampire named Simon.Zoe spends a lot of her time alone due to her mother being in the hospital and her dad spending time with her mom or trying to catch up on work when he's not dutifully at her hospital bedside.
and her best friend, Lorraine, has no idea how to talk to Zoe about her mom (she's got her own mom issues) and is having a hard time moving away anyhow.
No es justo que alguien como ella se tenga que ir tan pronto y la deje sola siendo tan joven.
Su padre está cada vez más apático con ella, apenas si se ven en el día, no la deja ver a su mamá muy seguido y sólo le deja notas diciéndole que no vendrá y ella pasará la noche sola en casa.
En uno de sus paseos, se encuentra a un joven bellísimo (como no) y muy pálido, que por su ropa negra y chaqueta de cuero no parece de fiar.
Hello Simon and Zoe. I have to admit, I was a bit skeptical of this being a good book when I first picked it up.
I mean, who needs another vampire story, right?
Undead boy loves the girl he longs to drain the life-force from.
But that's the one place this story doesn't even go.
In brief, Simon is a vampire, changed willingly but under false pretenses.
He's lost everything.
All things dear are lost.
Then later Zoe (a beautiful, sad girl.
The warmth derived of a loving touch and now Simon will never be the same.
:SBut whatever, it was worth it!This book is just amazing and so different from the vampire books we used to read.I really loved Simon.
I feel like I could see into his tortured soul and found there something really beautiful, in spite of his own beliefs.I wish he had a happy ending but I agree with him.
I wouldn't want to be immortal.
Without change, there is no joy.I really loved the fact that Zoe and Simon were kindred spirits joined by death.
*Sigh*I'm glad Simon could see that he was wanted before the end...

(This reason also adds an element of understanding to why I was so thoroughly disappointed by The Adventure of the Princess and Mr. Wiffle.)The stories bookend the novel, falling in chronological order, but I found them more powerful by reading the novel first, then Simon's The Summer of Love and then Zoe's The Christmas Cat.Also included with the short stories was a generous introduction by the author, where she goes into a great amount of detail about what the novel means to her and how she first put it to paper and ushered it through publication process.
Her relationship with her father and what was happening with her mother and best friend was somewhat touching, but even this came off as being glazed over like it was just a filler to put more pages into the story.I found myself getting frustrated and bored with Simon's account of his past and how he came to be who he was while explaining it to Zoe. It did not flow at all.
"The Christmas Cat" was even worse.I read the Author's introduction and I must say that I totally understand why it took years to even get this story published.
Este libro me lo recomendó mi amiga Nina ,su reseña me lleno de curiosidad y quise leerlo cuanto ant
OK first thing this book has 4 stars from me not because it's the best or because at the moment it was good.
I remember at that age just thinking this was one of the best books ever written and thinking that the romance was to die for <3 .
I am much older and definitely have different views on what I consider good in terms of books and romance now.
I do have to give credit for a good villain, would have definitely now that I am older love to see the story from Christopher's point of view :)
The first of it's kind -- a teen vampire love story.
In that respect I did like the story, the concepts were intriguing and an easy story to follow.
I did find it quite dated however, very 90s lit.
The author also seemed like she was a teen herself in some respects..the story felt a little young and undeveloped.
Her mother is dying and she is trying to accept death with the help of Simon, the tortured vampire.
I'm happy to say most teen writers have moved away from sappy stories like this.
this book is about a girl who falls in love with a vampire that is like 300 years old.
together they try to kill his brother who is also a vampire because his brothe ris killing alot of women.
his brother appears to be 8 years old but he is really his older brother.
Another reason he wants to kill him is because his brother killed his mother and made him what he is..
vampire.
i do not like the ending.
the second book is called blood and chocolate i really want to read it.
Don't be fooled by the cover or the title. The book is okay written, but the most beautifully written part is the last few pages, when Zoe finally understand how to let go of someone you love with the help of Simon. Simon, the lone vampire, is in turn, helped by Zoe herself, who shows him how it is to be noticed and be loved. A very great book...nearly cried reading the last parts.
Yikes, no. I couldn't even finish it. I mean, the male love interest pisses on the female lead's back porch. That's just a world of no. Read my full review on Forever Young Adult.
una storia emozionante e coinvolgente, perfetta per chi non ama i vampiri romantici a cui gli Urban Fantasy ci hanno ormai abituati.Una delle cose che ho preferito, infatti, è l'atmosfera cupa e malinconica che fa da sfondo alle vicende di Zoe e Simon.
Qui ci troviamo davanti ad una storia più simile a quelle di Anne Rice, piuttosto che ai vampiri della Meyer.Certo, la storia è semplice e le pagine sono poche, quindi se siete delle fan sfegatate delle saghe Urban Fantasy, e avete già letto tutte le serie angeliche/lupesche in circolazione, Il bacio d'argento potrebbe non entusiasmarvi troppo, ma a tutti gli altri mi sento davvero di consigliarlo.Particolare, triste e dal finale inaspettato...
And then I read another couple pages and I remind myself that life is too short to read bad books.
I did this back and forth through 66% of this book.
And I'm done now.I gave it such a low rating because not only was it cliche vampire romance, it was HEAVY handed.
But really that just set her up to be home alone with the handsome, rakish, sensitive soul mate of a vampire came and revealed himself to her.
*eyeroll*Then there is HIS story, how and why he's a vampire.
But he's after a BAD vampire.
