https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/172855.Modern_American_Poetry_and_Modern_British_Poetry
It's like meeting an old familiar friend, and suddenly the years has fallen away and once again, you two are young, innocent, carefree and idealistic!
Ready to sail forth, take on the world and slay the fire-breathing dragons!My book is probably older, since the cover doesn't look anything like that.
I was still in high school when I found the book in the discard box of a bookstore who was cleaning out their old stock.
Reading poetry is not like reading novels or technical books.
With fiction, once maybe twice; reference books, - only when needed; but poems has to be read when you're in the mood.This will always be in my currently reading.
His New and Enlarged Modern British Poetry (1958) was the first book of poetry I read start to finish.
He does criticize, but he always has some genuine and targeted praise for each poet.Conversely, reading his intros always makes me feel a spike of sadness.
He saw so much promise in the poets he brought together in his anthologies.
He read everything they put out, and foretold good strong futures for them.
He had an eye to the future, though.
Which one poem do you think has the greatest chance of permanence a hundred years from now?
Dual book split in half by American/British. At least eight versions were published, but not always in combined editions. Quite a few poets are included. This book is listed in More Outstanding Books for the College Bound, 2005, a good source for poetry titles.
There were many poems I enjoyed in this collection. Then again, there were also lots or poems I did not enjoy. I think I would take a pass on the second part to this because I had a very difficult time with the British ones. I only marked a couple and this portion of the book really dragged on for me. Glad to be finished at last!
very good
A classic and still valuable collection***** A Five Star Poetry Book: Recommended for All ReadersThough largely forgotten nowadays, at least by the general reading public, Louis Untermeyer's anthologies of modern American and British poetry were hugely popular and influential in their day.
They went through numerous editions (so far as I know all out of print now, though some may be available in electronic form,) sometimes with American and British poetry as individual volumes, sometimes in a combined volumes.
Untermeyer's selections are in ways dated: he includes some poets no longer much anthologized, and his critical views would probably be looked on as old fashioned by current academic standards.
This is sort of a survey of numerous poets with mini bios and snippets of poets work...no I didn't read the whole thing, but I'd love to have this handy. Especially for pulling out poems to introduce to students. And looking at all of these great poets, guess who REALLY stands out? All of the bios talk about how each of these poets did something DIFFERENT, but T.S. Eliot is the one who really stands out. He was amazing. I forgot.
I bought this for $1 at The Strand. Not so new or modern anymore, having last been updated in 1939, but still a lot of well-known and some more obscure (to me, anyway) writers. Plenty to love if you enjoy poetry as I do!
Read as a child but picked it up again as an adult. It is still wonderful after all these years. This was the book that got me interested in poetry.
this was free at library
Poetry anthology.
