https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/876499.Time_and_Again
Sounds like pretty standard thriller-SF, right?Well, in this case, it's really about leveling up, writing a book that will have a grand effect on the rest of future humanity, making a difference to all the downtrodden androids and aliens who suffer from the "largesse" of the super-dominant mankind.A light and a once-removed tale of race issues, sure, but this book from 1950 focuses on the heart of it, doesn't stint on pushing for equality, and even pokes huge holes in "Manifest Destiny".
:) Duels, corporations with a million-year strategy, a time war, and paradox-poking.
What would you think if you found an old book signed with your name-and learned that it bore a date in the distant future? It happens to Asher Sutton, and upon setting out to investigate the incredible enigma, he finds that book a ticket to a galactic empire many thousands of years from now!Definitely my favourite time-travel novel so far!
Четох я с ококорени очи и често си я препрочитам.Поводът за последното прочитане беше разговор за обърканите прескачания във времето в Интерстелар и невероятната лекота, с която го прави Саймък.
Саймък е майстор от висота, която надали някой от съвремените автори скоро ще достигне.
Съвсем не се чувствуваше велик, както бе казала Ева, а само тъжен и самотен… човек, който е сам и завинаги ще остане сам."
While the first few chapters had the makings of a really good time-travel book, it just seemed to bog down later on - to the point where I simply skipped over some of the paragraphs. Most of the time travel in the book are just references to things which will happen in the future for example, the text of a book, not yet written, found in the burnt-out wreckage of a space-craft....The book had so much promise but just didn't deliver.
Oh dear, this book is a bit of a mess. It's about time travel....no, it's about androids and Asimovian space cops... No, it's about biology and symbiotic life forms...no, it's about time travel again...no, it's a scathing critique of manifest destiny...no, it's about a war between androids and humanity...no, it's about mutant humans with special powers...no, I'm not sure what it's about.
Wow.This story was so multi-layered, I shake my head in utter amazement that it was written in 1951.
The untapped power of the mind and spirit.
And the power games of war that stem from the need to fight back for a measure of sovereignty that allows for a life lived with dignity.Mr Simak does all that in one solid story line that doesn't let up until the last line that leaves you breathless.Read it.
And see if you don't question both yourself and the society we live in on deeper levels.
This book has two themes run together, one of which works better than the other.The first theme is about Asher Sutton and what he found on the seventh planet of 61 Cygni.
This is classic, magnificent sense-of-wonder sf, told in Simak's unhurried, thoughtful prose.The second theme is about the world Sutton came from: a far-future society of humans and their android servants, treated as inferiors although they're the same in almost every respect as humans made in the traditional way.I don't believe in this future society, so for me the book's second theme agonizes pointlessly over a non-issue.
Simak was of my grandparents' generation, approximately; and by now I'm old enough to be a grandfather myself.
След като двадесет години се води изчезнал в космоса, Аш Сътън се завръща на земята и носи познание, което ще промени цялото човечество.
Познание заради което в бъдещето се водят безспирни войни и различни групировки искат да го унищожет, променят или запазят.
Дали са етични или егоистични да си преценява читателят.Да отбележа, че това е единственото произведение което съм чел от Саймък, където действието се води през очите на двама главни герои.
Лятото е времето, когато се връщам към изданията на "Галактика" от 80-те. Брилянтна фантастика, брилянтен Саймък. Повече от 60 години преди "Интерстелар" сме знаели как да пътуваме. И сме познавали своята съвест.
One I read repeatedly as a young person. I loved it.
You also get both robots and androids as part of the plot.A few details (may include mild spoilers as to general content):   (view spoiler)[It's an anachronistic future that Simak envisioned, at least to modern eyes: a world where time travel, telepathy, and travel to other stars is common, but where guys sit around smoking pipes and posturing, where storage is still on tapes and film, and where people call up a robot on a visaphone for information.
I read an Open Road Media re-publication of this 1951 novel in kindle format because there was a short-term deep price cut for it on Amazon, and I have always liked Clifford Simak’s work.
Ash is caught up in this, as there is a book he is yet to write, approaching religious stature in the future, that has become pivotal in the struggle of the Android Equality League.
Clifford Simak was born in that area, and his descriptions of the land and the river are awe inspiring to me.
But the descriptions and the second plot alone are not enough to save the book for me.
I wanted to like this a lot more than I did, but it wasn't the sort of book I thought it would be.The title and blurb imply that this is primarily a time travel adventure.
The time travel aspect is that he hasn't written the book yet, and both factions want him to produce the version they prefer.If that sounds interesting to you, and you can cope with the inevitable anachronisms of a book six decades old which discusses events six millennia hence, I recommend it.
I enjoyed those aspects myself, but the experience was like ordering steak and getting barbecue.
The main characters are on a quest to give androids and humans equal rights, and several factions fight to get hold of the hero; on the whole, the novel doesn't really have time to give every character, group or nation the depth of construction they might deserve, and I felt that I remained on the surface of the story because of that, never fully rooting for anyone nor wanting to kill the villains, but not getting bored either.
But he chose instead to write a short-ish novel, where the great themes of his book and the multitude of characters receive little attention each, so in the end, it was more entertaining than thought-provoking.
This was another fabulous book by Simak.
A little like Philip K Dick in that there was a lot of travelling in time and trying to change the future.
It also looked at racism in a very real way.
The two sides of this book were between those who thought only the "natural" born humans were worthy of life and those who thought those born of artifical ways were only fit to be the slaves, even though they vastly outnumbered the "humans".
It challenged a lot of assumptions and did so with an interesting story.
I've got three more books by Simak from the library and really looking forward to reading the rest.
But there are men who become aware of what Sutton is trying to do and either want to kill him and the idea he is unleashing to the galaxy or men who want to distort his message into their own concept of a supercharged manifest destiny that only men of Earth have and will lead them to be the dominant force in the galaxy.
The time travel aspect of the story didn't help move the plot along very well either.
Simak writes thoughtful stories about concepts and how they effect everyday people.
Should synthetic life (androids) have equal rights with humanity?
These are some of the questions at sake in this wacky and wild science-fiction novel.
Some say the book argues for the equality of all intelligent life.
Some would rather the book say that humanity is uniquely significant and superior.
The man who is destined to write that book is hunted by time-travelers, most of whom want to influence his writing of the book for the sake of their cause.
I found the novel to be confusing sometimes but on the whole an entertaining read.
in the year 7,990), and astounded me with the author's huge concepts and storytelling.
Briefly, it is about a man named Asher Sutton who travels alone to a star system that man has never been to before and returns twenty years later in a broken ship that couldn't fly without food or water.
He plans to write a book that will free every living creature, biological and chemical, from the ants to the androids, to experience true destiny.
This book will spark a war throughout time, men will try to twist Sutton's words to their own ends, while androids fight for their freedom as Sutton wrote it.
Time and Again opens in a distant future on earth that includes androids, robots, interactive television, weather control, mentophones - an ingenious device that allows instantaneous interstellar communication, dramatically extended life spans, travel to distant star systems and a humanity that has conquered the galaxy and spread its seed far and wide.
But, before the book can even be actually written, Sutton must survive assassination attempts by revisionists - humans from the future who are using time travel as the means to prevent its publication.Simak's personal credo that reflects his quiet midwest upbringing, his pastoral approach to the science fiction genre and his concerns about humanity and its use of technology as a means to violent conflict are never very far from the surface.
Memes and GenesSF is the fiction of ideas, and Time and Again is no exception.
The ordinary hero returns from a journey changed, is viewed as a pawn by multiple factions, begins a journey of self discovery of his new abilities and by the end assumes a transcendency in universality, making humanity, or at least a large portion of it, obsolete.To be sure there are certain incongruities of the past that jar.
Sutton notes that both human and android factions get it wrong, that the meme is about the special sanctity of life itself.
Because the novel starts OK, gets ridiculously awful - disjointed, confusing, and random - and then suddenly most of it straightens out and things make sense.
But I thought I was going to have to abandon this novel around page 100.
But I forced myself to keep reading - and then Simak pulled some threads together and the writing improved by leaps and bounds.The story has less to do with time travel and more to do with Simak's views on quasi-religion (destiny/life).
(Simak's androids are different than Asimov's.) Finally, over all of this, to make this a science fiction story, rather than pondering, there is a "war" of sorts that is fought by far-future humans and robots.
Salti temporaliLeggere Simak è sempre un'esperienza particolare.Come autore di fantascienza, la sua 
A visitor from the future warns that Asher Sutton, missing for 20 years, will be returning and must be killed.
He does indeed return, but manages to avoid the would-be killers, since he is now something more than he was when he went to 61 Cygni 20 years ago.
The future humans are afraid of a book that he has not yet published, that has caused a war with the androids in the future.
But Asher is determined to get his message out.
I'm not sure I completely understood all of this book - some of it went right over my head, perhaps because I read it too quickly.
Time and Again started off with a strong premise.
Upon his return he discovers that he's got some cool new alien powers and through some time travel (because why not!) he learns that he's apparently going to write a book that will cause a war between humans and the essentially enslaved androids.
Ok cool.
Sounds promising and it is through the first hundred pages.
But then it starts to drag on and on and on and nothing is really happening.
In the end this would have made an excellent short story but it not as much as a 300 page novel.
I liked it. A really good SyFy story that involves time travel, aliens, robots, androids, space travel/exploration with interesting, likable characters. On the surface a fun Sci-Fi romp, but peel back the layers and what you found is a story that warns against wars based on religion and points out the egocentric views of the human race."Before Man goes to the stars he should learn how to live on Earth."
I truly enjoyed this book. Interesting science-fiction with a touch of philosophy, moral and religion. It is also an invitation to think about the selfishness of humanity and its obsession for supremacy above all the rest of living creatures. The book was published in 1951, and I found quite interesting how different technological aspects treated in the book, most notably those concerning machines and consciousness, are under debate now.
Simak je frajer a jeden z mojich najobľúbenejších sci-fi autorov. "Předivo času", ako sa v českom preklade volá kniha, sa mojich očiach nevyrovnala Simakovmu majsterštychu "Město". Stále veľmi kvalitné čítanie ale mierne trpí tým, že chce povedať veľa vecí na jednej ploche. Jasnejšia štruktúra by knihe pomohla zvýrazniť jej brilantné časti. Možno tejto knihe prídem na chuť viac niekedy v budúcnosti.
i found this underwhelming - not much SF, just some familiar tropes to frame a philosophical debate about destiny? man's place in the universe? human vs. artificial life? it seemed unclear to me and both sides in this time battle seemed kind of dumb considering that the war appeared to hinge on something very simple and easy to deal with if you had a time machine.
I continue to be amazed by this author. Simak does all that in one solid story line that doesn't let up until the last line that leaves you breathless. An interesting, thoughtful and unusual story with well crafted and likable characters. Highly recomended!
MehIt just kinda ends, and it ends with a meh. The plot was interesting, but it feels like the book just ends.
