https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21965107-the-children-act
Do you like to people watch?You know what I mean...
I wonder, had I taken the time to people watch back then, if I would have felt so lost and strange.
Fiona's tale may be a quiet journey through the inner workings of someone's life, job and marriage, but it is also an extremely interesting portrait of a woman who continues to go through the motions of her everyday life while her private life may be falling apart.
I don't know how to convince others that this book is interesting.
I have to stop reading McEwan's books, because I never enjoy them. There's something clinical, removed, about the way he tells his stories - I don't get the sense that he likes human beings, and he is writing about them to display his proficiency with structure and nuance rather than out of interest or sympathy. This is probably a three-star book, but a two-star experience.
FILM adaptation now out in UK, US, and elsewhere. I've appended a review/comparison of that to this review of the book.“ She felt shrunken to a geometrical point of anxious purpose .” This was my eighth McEwan. I rated On Chesil Beach as 5*, five others as 4*, and Black Dogs as 2*. That track record gave me high hopes for The Children Act, raised further by the intriguing dilemma at its heart: whether a bright and articulate Jehovah’s Witness boy, very nearly 18, should be forced to have a life-

THE CHILDREN ACT is about the law and sensational cases, but it is not a legal thriller. Rather, it is a beautiful and sad story of a High Court Judge forced to choose, literally, between life and death. Her ruling, though proper and legally sound, leads to both.
From the first page, I realized Ian McEwan’s The Children Act would conquer me. This novel is more a character study than a simple courtroom drama, as it deals with marriage, religion, and life choices. The story centers on the family court Judge Fiona Maye as she faces a crisis in her marriage, questions her life choices and stumbles practically on the edge of both her personal and professional life. "Her judgment must be ready for printing by tomorrow's deadline, she must work. Her personal li
This novel is more a character study than a simple courtroom drama, as it deals with marriage, religion, and life choices.
The story centers on the family court Judge Fiona Maye as she faces a crisis in her marriage, questions her life choices and stumbles practically on the edge of both her personal and professional life.
I liked the characters and felt that McEwan developed then fully for such a short story.
From the start, I felt a strong affinity with Fiona and could understand her life dilemmas.
Wistful and tragic yet inspiring and hopeful, I found The Children Act outstanding and simply loved it!
Fiona, the ever rational and confident decision maker, suddenly has to examine her life and question what she is doing now and what she should do in the future.The book starts with Fiona and her husband having a restrained argument, though underneath the cool façade, Fiona is steaming.
Both stories are good, though the Adam story gets more air-time and is way more compelling.For most of her adult life, Fiona has not been an emotional creature, and we watch as she struggles with uncomfortable feelings and a big moral crisis.
McEwan examines what happens when the closed door between the professional and private swings open.
To be honest there’s never much doubt on whose side Fiona will come out as McEwan, one of the most doggedly rational novelists out there, has a hard job concealing his scorn for Jehovah’s Witnesses despite protesting otherwise with a passage like this - "Religions, moral systems, her own included, were like peaks in a dense mountain range seen from a great distance, none obviously higher, more important, truer than another." We all though love a good court drama and this was easily the most compelling part of the novel.
In this most recent of McEwan’s thirteen novels, Fiona Maye, a High Court judge in Britain’s Family Division, hears a case of a young Jehovah's Witness with leukemia whose parents refuse to allow a critical medical procedure.
Time is running out—Fiona, or 'My Lady' as she is addressed in court, has only a few days to hear the case and render her decision before it is too late to save the young man’s life.Complicating an already impossible situation is Adam, the patient.
Fiona and Jack have been married for thirty years and although they have no children, their life is enriched with the frequent presence of nieces and nephews.
He is very efficient and his writer's skills are indubitable but there is some coldness about his writing.
As if he only was doing his homework and wanted to meet someone’s expectations.
I can write on spies and an euthanasia, on amorality and an obsession, on strange relationships  and so on.In  The Children Act  McEwan raises really weighty issues and moral dilemmas like human dignity, freedom of choice, the right to refusal of treatment, marital breakdown but it all lacks true involvement.
But it is not a bad novel since McEwan is really deft writer only I found his writing here too cold, almost clinical.
It turned out, this skinny 221-page book was one of my favorites of his.This book had two main themes running in parallel: the marriage crisis between 59-year-old high court family division judge Fiona and her geology professor husband Jack, and the emotional entanglement between Fiona and a 17-year-old boy Adam, whose life was saved by Fiona’s ruling against the fundamental belief of Jehovah’s Witness.
I had a strong premonition in the middle of the book when Fiona and Adam performed the song together at his bedside.I could not find an exact violin-and-voice version.
When I finished reading this book, I couldn’t stop thinking about the enormous power that Family Court judges have over the lives of so many young children whose families are in crisis and then even if the decision seems right, what happens to these children afterwards?
Adam’s story and Fiona’s ultimate decision, the relationship that they develop, and what happens to Adam captivated my attention such that I couldn’t put this book down.Fiona herself is going through a crisis in her marriage and has some decisions to make about herself and her own life.
It immediately drew my attention because not only am I a fan of Fionnuala’s takes on books and have liked several of McEwan’s books, but also because I was going to attend a trial in court within the next few hours.Children and parents.
He should know then.Familiar are McEwan’s ability in sustaining the intrigue, familiar is also his portrayal of obsessive minds (and Enduring Love comes to mind), but I also enjoyed his discussion on music.And here I could not help bringing in some information I had about McEwan and his having been the "Literary Guest" of the Pianist Angela Hewitt in her  Trasimeno Music Festival, a few years ago.
Not having read this author before, I’m very glad to have picked this one off of my 300 plus owned books.
It will be easy to miss many great books this way won’t it?!Fiona holds an immensely important job being a highly regarded High Court Judge presiding over families.
She’s at a crossroads, or rather her husband is, and we see a fine story unfold as a marriage is being questioned and a brilliant woman teeters on the edge.
The finale gave me hope for Fiona and her patient and loving husband, but I was oh so sad for Adam.Literary fiction is not my genre of choice, but it was an effective story.

But that’s where the novel differs from its controversial premise: “The Children Act” is not primarily about religious radicalism or the conflict between faith and science; it’s about the way a woman’s well-ordered life is shaken by a confluence of youthful passion and old betrayal.You see, the hospital’s petition involving Adam arrives on the very night Fiona’s husband of 35 years announces that he wants to have an affair.
The Children ActI read this book in two days, which for a slow reader like me is quite an achievement.There's a certain "stream of consciousness" vibe on McEwan's writing, at least on this novel, but I absolutely adore his graceful, elegant prose.Not sure why this book is classified as a mystery/thriller, it's nothing of the sort.
However, if the idea of a novel featuring a strong female family court judge in charge of handling complex ethical issues sounds intriguing, this novel might be for you.If nothing else, you might enjoy McEwan's exquisite writing, it's also a very short read so probably a good return on your investment.
The story was of a family court judge, her husband, her "on the rocks" marriage and the young man so tragically ill who came into her life and offered her love and the chance for redemption.It was a beautiful story and one that sent goosebumps down your spine as the ending approached and try as you might you could not change it.
Caught up in the turmoil that parents and religion can oftentimes put children through, the novel captures the true element of the concept of without a given belief system in place humans struggle with themselves.
Hard religious beliefs can and do impact a child in many ways and at times can be life threatening.
"My Lady is Captivating"!"Adam Henry is Captivating"This entire story is """CAPTIVATING"""!!!Delicate Situations!!!!!!Written with real energy --totally 'ALIVE'....I've been a long time fan of Ian McEwan --and this small novel (with 5 parts) --confirms the depth and breadth of Ian's talents!
In her typical crisp prose, which has been described as almost ironic, almost warm, and in her typical compact terms for which she have received high praise by her colleagues, Fiona resolves this case within a day.
However, life is short, and the consequences of decisions is often final ...It is the first encounter for me with this author's work and it was a striking one.
By reading the book first I have more insight in the reviews.
In On Chesil Beach the couple's tragedy resulted from not knowing one another and not talking about their issues; I expected The Children Act to be the total opposite, an analysis of the rise and fall of a mature marriage with the couple engaging in a honest and open conversation about their own lives.
The issue of Fiona and Jack's failing marriage is too quickly swept under the rug when Fiona is ordered to judge over a case involving Adam, a teenager on the verge of legal maturity who suffers from leukemia, and his parents - Jehovah's Witnesses, who object to him undergoing a blood transfusion which could save his life.
While reading that book, which I bought NEW, I realized it had been a short story in the New Yorker to which he had added a few pages and then called it a book.
I happen to be around many teenagers and his character was a huge stretch without an adequate backstory.
I waded through this short novella, looking for the old McEwan spark.
You just think McEwan's wife would say something like, " Ian, enough of this crap.
Write something splendid about which you give a damn." How's that for communication?
The Children Act weaves a story of Fiona Maye, a 59-year-old British High Court judge in the Family Division, through her rocky marriage and her cases.Once again, I am bowled over by McEwan’s exquisite portrayal of human truths and subterfuges to avoid truth.
I found myself reading like a student, noticing his artful pacing and the way he moved between narrative and scenes, always driving the plot forward to its wrenching ending.
Like the rests in music, they make the story vibrate.McEwan’s work inspires me as a writer and entertains me as a reader.
Given the unique circumstance of this case, I’ve decided that I would like to hear from Adam Henry himself. It’s not his knowledge of scripture that interests me so much as his understanding of his situation, and of what he confronts should I rule against the hospital. Also, he should know that he is not in the hands of an impersonal bureaucracy. I shall explain to him that I am the one who will be making the decision in his best interests. I had never read any of this author’s books before, in
A High Court judge has to rule on a case with an underage (by purely three months) Jehovah Witness, who is refusing blood transfusions, on whether to respect the boy’s/parents’ beliefs’ or insist that hospital treatment be carried out in order to save his life.Running in parallel are the matrimonial problems that Fiona is beginning to face with her husband Jack.
I could indeed relate to that fact.Why she would decide to meet Adam Henry in the hospital seemed illogical to me but then it’s part of the plot.
THE INNOCENT McEwan è bravo, molto, è un grande della letteratura contemporanea, e questo suo breve romanzo è un autentico pezzo di bravura.Un tema penetrante, dati sensibili raccolti dopo acute ricerche, il tutto condito con la sua qualità di scrittura: ed ecco una narrazione che scorre e cattura, anche con i momenti di stasi, di ‘noia’.
Sottovalutato.Per condire e incorniciare il tema giuridico individuato, mette in scena una crisi matrimoniale della coppia protagonista all’approssimarsi dei sessant’anni, dopo trenta passati insieme.Ma questo secondo aspetto è abbastanza ovvio e scontato, McEwan non innesta nulla di suo, nulla di nuovo.
She is long married to Jack, but their marriage has now hit a big road block.In the beginning I felt a huge distance from the character, what kept me reading was her very interesting court cases and her inner thoughts about her judgments.
I enjoyed all the music references throughout as Fiona and a fellow lawyer play at various events.
My enjoyment of this book slowly crept up on me and I realized just how much this author had included in this rather short novel.
So I ended up liking this much more at the end than I did at the beginning.ARC from the publisher.
Is it her duty to attempt to save either?I had been very hesitant about delving into another work by Ian McEwan after reading (and re-reading and re-reading) Atonement - a book that remains one of my favorites to this day.
And not cold in a good way, like exploring the coldness of Fiona and Jack’s marriage or the coldness it must take for one to sit the bench in Family Court or the coldness a person must have in order to let a loved one die in the name of religious belief.
In addition to Fiona’s career dilemma, the fidelity of her marriage is at stake, and makes for an engaging side story.
This was a thought provoking read because of the characters and their issues being so realistic, but also because of the effects of the law and religion, and also how a career can put strain on a marriage.
I really liked these characters and felt they were strongly developed for a shorter story, and something about the writing, the details of the court cases and the musical aspects added in made this a more sophisticated read.
Fiona Maye is a judge in Family Court who keeps herself very formal and somewhat distant from the people around her.
She wields great power over the lives of the people who appear before her in court, and I think the only way she can support that level of responsibility is to separate herself emotionally.
I actually enjoyed the amount of background that was given on Fiona’s other family court cases, although I think it could be off-putting to some and make this book a little slower to start.
This is the first of Ian McEwan's books that I have read, and I thoroughly enjoyed it.
In court, a moral dilemma with religious beliefs of parents versus the medical treatment needed for their son, and the less than passionate marriage of Fiona and her husband, Jack.This is a lovely short book with the 2 stories interwoven expertly.
I listened to the audiobook which was narrated quite well.Highly recommend.
I would like to read more of his novels, but not sure which one I should select next.
Any recommendations appreciated.4 out of 5 stars.
Perhaps an unconventional first McEwan novel to read, The Children Act is a tightly constructed, parable-like story of morality, religion, science and the decision of one woman amidst a marital crisis.
We focus much less on understanding Adam and his parents' religious perspective and more on Fiona's inner turmoil propped up against her childlessness--a stereotypical and unnecessary element, in my opinion--and emotional involvement in the case.
I thought for its brevity, just over 200 pages, the novel was superbly crafted and powerful.
It has the arc of a short story with a bit more room to examine Fiona's situation and ultimately her decisions and their aftershocks.
