https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6043781-blood-of-elves
This review can be found on Amaranthine Reads.Considering how well-written and quick-paced the short story prequel collection The Last Wish by Andrzej Sapkowski was, this was ridiculously disappointing and underwhelming.
We have the same characters as was to be found in The Last Wish, and we had their personalities expanded and explored further, but we had none of the excitement or fantasy that was found there.Blood of Elves is very slow and very closed-off.
The first and second ones were collections of short stories mostly told from Geralt the Witcher POV.
In my opinion the book still shows its origins in short story format as the transitions between the chapters are mostly not continuous.
The last story of the second book left Geralt stuck with - supposedly - his destiny; namely a child (not his).
Now that I finished the book, I cast my mind back and realize that not much actually happened here: a lot of talks, a lot of politics, but by the end most of the characters remained right where they started.
Whereas previously all the short stories followed Geralt of Rivia working on certain monster assassination assignments, within Blood of Elves he is one of 3 or 4 main characters that we share the minds of.
In this outing, Ciri, the child of Destiny is essentially the main character with Geralt being more of a shadowy father figure who aids her development as an upcoming Witcher although she also has magical capabilities she does not understand.
He is the infamous Witcher, Yennefer is an enchantress and "will they-won't they" love interest and although not the biological child of the aforementioned she seems like a perfect mix of arguably the other two main characters.
Your life will no longer have a meaning, but that really is quite an insignificant price to pay in the grand scheme of things, is it not?See, the Libidinously Mustached Duo (LMD™) doesn't think it's a big deal, either.☠ Only a few pages told from your POV your slightly hysterical fans you shall provide with.Because you are of the erroneously wrong opinion that absence makes the black, withered heart grow fonder and stuff.
"The era of the sword and axe is nigh, the era of the wolf’s blizzard.
The Time of the White Chill and the White Light is nigh, the Time of Madness and the Time of Contempt: Tedd Deireádh, the Time of End. The world will die amidst frost and be reborn with the new sun.
It will be reborn of the Elder Blood, of Hen Ichaer, of the seed that has been sown.
A seed which will not sprout but will burst into flame.
Ess’tuath esse!
Thus it shall be!
Watch for the signs!
What signs these shall be, I say
It focuses more on the actual storyline, which is quite fortunately intriguing enough to pull you in and never let go.The world of the Witcher, most recently broadcasted in The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt, undoubtedly one of the most immersive and beautiful video games ever presented to the public, is shown just as stunningly on the pages of the Witcher books, as they take the reader from the burning city of Cintra to the ancient Witcher fortress of Kaer Morhen and beyond.While it is relatively unknown by comparison to the giants of the genre (as a result of coming from a non-English-speaking country), I would not hesitate to call this one of the most impressive series in fantasy.Witcher reviews:#1 The Last Wish#2 Sword of Destiny#3 Blood of Elves
I'm not saying it's boring, but if you're use to modern western fantasy stories, you may not enjoy the slow pace.
It primarily offers some insight to her childhood after she's taken in by Geralt, showing the early relationships she had with the other characters.
It mostly sets the scene of two enemy countries, on the brink of war, and how Geralt of Rivia is stuck in the middle, with both countries and numerous independent guilds after him and those he loves.
Like the previous books, “Blood of Elves” is mostly based on dialogue -- using the characters words or thoughts to set the scene.
This volume is about the child Ciri, who we meet in the short stories of The Last Wish and The Sword of Destiny, and her training in both magic and witching (I don't know if that's what the Witcher craft is called but hey I used it).
Her early training in magic (and how to survive puberty, let's be honest) is carried out by Triss Merigold, whom I adored for being one of the only characters who just said what they were feeling, and later by Yennefer.
I loved it like I knew I would. It was well worth the wait, and I can not wait until the next installment. For some reason, my wife and I were possessed by the title and now run around the house doing some ridiculous call and response thing-Me(from downstairs, yelling black metal voice): "BLOOD OF ELVES"Her (from upstairs, shrieking black metal voice): "BLLLLLLLLLLOOOOD OF EELLLVVVVEEES"There are worse reactions a book can inspire.
REVIEW IZ 2018:Jenefer je carica.
<3REVIEW IZ 2014:Šta sve donosi epska fantastika?
Koje sve motive možete očekivati od epske fantastike?
Pa, zasigurno neko Proročanstvo, pojavljivanje Odabranog, najmanje jednog super frajera mračne prošlosti i slomljenog srca, koji se pretvara da to je isto srce odavno skamenjeno.I dete.Slatko, pametno, šarmantno do bola dete, koje, samo kako to deca umeju i znaju, svojom prostodušnošću, brbljavošću, radoznalošću i hrabrošću, leči to srce pretvoreno u kamen.
Suma sumarum: sve ono što od epske fantastike već očekujete i znate da ćete dobiti, ali bez suvišnog davljenja (da, Džordane, ni mrtvog neću prestati da te prozivam!).
As a big fan of the video games which were adapted from this series, I was of course interested in reading the books, but as waiting for the English translation from its original Polish already required a bit of patience, I never really dared hope that the audiobooks would be coming too.As of this writing though, English versions of The Last Wish, Blood of Elves are available in audio with The Time of Contempt coming soon.
I "feel" (note the use of the word "feel" rather than "think") I should (have) like(ed) this book better.
The story of her "education", training, change and all the people around who want to protect or use her.
I found myself skimming the book going from Triss' memories to Ciri's training, from events to visions and all along I was just losing interest.Maybe it's me and my own taste.
I really don't care for it all that much.I do apologize to you who like this book greatly, as I've noted many times it's simple a matter of taste.
Very enjoyable read. Nothing huuuge happens in the book, its mostly focussd on Ciri and her training. But still the world and the characters are epic so its just good to be reading about them. Relaxing even haha. Anyway a war is coming up and a bit of training is deff necessary. I mean I do want if Ciri becomes this crazy ass whipping chick to be believable. And this book is just the beginning and a small part of a bigger journey.
Iako mi je do sada najbolje legla forma kratkih priča, moram da priznam da je podjednako zanimljivo čitati nastavak u klasičnom maniru.
Međutim, dve stvari se pokazuju kao problematične: prva je ta da se Ciri oporavlja od trauma rata (view spoiler)[(ako se prisetimo poslednje priče u drugoj knjizi, Ciri je uz pomoć neznanog Nilfgardijskog konjanika jedva pobegla iz Cintre, ali jedina sećanja na taj događaj predstavljaju snovi koji je progone) (hide spoiler)], a drugi je taj da vešci, uz pomoć čarobnice Tris Merigold, shvataju da je Cirina sudbina daleko veća i značajnija od toga da postane vešterica.
Though I guess she kind of became Alvin in the game, who was less awesome.So there I am, enjoying my book, realizing I'm reaching the end and wondering how the author is going to wrap up ALL of this set up in the next, oh, quarter-inch of pages I'm holding but remaining optimistic because hey, Patrick O'Brian can have an entire sea battle and wrap it up with a satisfying conclusion in less than five pages maybe Sapkowski can do something similar.
And then I reach the end which is obviously not The End but a set-up for The Next Book, which was first published in 1995.
Strangely, it was translated into English as the second novel despite the second anthology, Sword of Destiny, having a huge role in setting up this novel's events.
The rest of the novel deals with Geralt's adoption of Ciri, which is kind of important since she gets adopted in the Sword of Destiny too.
Blood of Elves follows the events of Sword of Destiny by recapping the previous book's events as a story told by Dandelion.
The characterization is particularly strong with Geralt, Ciri, Yennefer, and Dandelion all having very strong scenes.
Despite this, I love Yennefer as a character and enjoyed her scenes with Ciri a great deal.
Will review at www.fantasyliterature.com.
Βαθμολογία: ★★★★Τα πράγματα σοβαρεύουν στον κόσμο του Witcher. Στο τρίτο βιβλίο (αλλά πρώτο μυθιστόρημα) της σειράς ξεκινά επίσημα η saga της Ciri που μας συστήθηκε στην τελευταία ιστορία του προηγούμενου βιβλίου. Βλέπουμε επιτέλους κι άλλους αγαπημένους χαρακτήρες από τα βιντεοπαιχνίδια να κάνουν την εμφάνισή τους, γνωρίζουμε καλύτερα τον κόσμο από πολιτική και γεωγραφική άποψη και γενικά ετοιμάζεται να γίνει χαμός. Τέσσερα αστέρια μόνο για την έλλειψη ιδιαίτερης δράσης.
**** 4/5 **** Oddly enough, I really enjoyed the politics in this book. It was more slow paced, and heavy in strategic talk. I think I will go back to the short stories before delving into the rest of the series.
I know the games were based on these books, and are very popular, but that is as far as my knowledge goes.I have seen many people say how great these books are, and that they are very Sword and Sorcery, Conan Esq pulpy fantasy, which is totally me!
I hope the next book can recapture that certain something that had me loving The Last Wish collection.As you know if you have read my reviews before I am not about long reviews with synopsis and spoilers.
Mucho mejor que los dos anteriores. La historia es narrada desde diferentes puntos de vista, con capítulos que siguen a Jaskier, Yennefer, Geralt y Ciri; también comienza a quedar más claro cómo funciona la magia y otros aspectos relacionados con los brujos. A pesar de que está muy bueno, se lee rápido y no le falta momentos cargados de acción y humor, considero que este libro sirve de "puente" entre los relatos de los primeros libros y el resto de la saga. La estoy pasando bárbaro con esta saga, el mes que viene leeré el cuarto libro. (Reseña pendiente).
خب بالاخره داستان اصلی شروع شد با این کتاب. در مجموع داستان خوبی بود. تنها مشکلش اضافه گویی شخصیت ها تو بعضی قسمتا بود. ترجمه هم بی نقص و روان بود4/5
Blood of Elves quickly fixes that, and traditionally feels like the epic stories from the video game series.
I was glad to see the addition of other characters I've come to know in the games, like medical student Shani and spymaster Dijkstra.
One of the dwarves featured in the novel, Yarpen Zigrin, is conflicted by his position working for the human entities that hold power while fighting against Elvish/dwarven freedom fighters that wish to disrupt their hold on the land.Blood of Elves is a fantastic addition to the lore and world Sapkowski has created and hopefully the continuation of the series is as grand as this novel.
3.5 starsI absolutely adored (of course I did, it's the Witcher, damnit) Blood of Elves and the only reason I'm giving it 3.5 stars and not 4 is because of the huge chunk of story that is pretty much just kings and queens sitting around, contemplating the end of the world as they know it as they drink and warm themselves by the fire.
That bit bored me to tears and I skimmed mercilessly, knowing I'd probably find out a better, more easily readable version at some point later on in the story.Blood of Elves is where the story of Ciri, Geralt and, ultimately, the Wild Hunt begins.
La saga de Geralt comienza a ser una historia en lugar de pequeñas historias cortas. Esta novela te deja conocer más a los personajes. A Geralt, quién tiene que cambiar sus pensamientos sobre el destino; a Yennefer y a Ciri, dos personas que tienen más unión de la que parece... todo ello en un contexto bien labrado y con una historia que consigue engancharte y ver sus uniones con los personajes... A por el siguiente!
Lo resumiría con el comentario que un tutor nuestro escribió comentando las notas de un amigo mío "pequeño gran fracaso".El libro tiene momentos muy buenos, como el comienzo, que enlaza con la última historia corta "La espada del destino" con la destrucción de Cintra, y el rescate de Geralt de Rivia de la pequeña Ciri.
I've also played some of The Witcher games which definitely isn't necessary to enjoy the stories, but for me, it made for an intriguing character and medium transfer study.
But part of my enjoyment of the books has come from seeing where the game story writers have cherry picked scenes and characters and political machinations to create their own version of the stories.
Geralt is the main character in this story, but so too is this princess who carries the blood of elves within veins and exhibits magic in very unusual and prophetic ways.I still have to get around to playing the third Witcher game.
La storia è abbastanza intricata e bisogna risalire al primo libro della saga per comprendere l'intricata matassa degli eventi e come il destino di Geralt e della piccola Ciri si sia incrociato (storia che occupa gran parte della Spada degli innocenti).Lo sfondo di Il sangue degli elfi vede la guerra tra umani e non-umani (in particolare gli elfi) che rivogliono indietro le loro terre occupate illeggittimamente dagli uomini e suddivise in quattro regni, ognuno di essi gestito da un sovrano umano.
"Mine, Zigrin."Auuughh, my feelings!!I'll say it again, though: you should definitely start this series with The Last Wish, because the short stories do a much better job of worldbuilding and getting you interested in this universe; plus, characterwise, you'll care so much more about Geralt, Yennefer, Ciri, and even background characters like Yarpen, Dandelion, and Calanthe.Like I mentioned in status updates, this world dovetails nicely with Dragon Age's, in which elves are an oppressed minority (alongside halflings and dwarves).
This was a rather laid back novel full of trouble brewing, wars in the making, and the introduction of Ciri, the Child Surprise, Geralt's and the other witchers' destiny.For those who haven't read the prequel:In "The Last Wish", there's a story where Geralt was invitied to an event by Queen Calanthe, the Lioness of Cintra and he was asked to disguise himself.
The king wasn't aware Calanthe was already expecting therefore, it was the child the knight claimed, and he was very strategic about it.The same law applied to Geralt when the knight asked him his price.
En esta nueva entrega de la serie de Geralt de Rivia nos encontramos con un formato distinto.
Ya no leemos una serie de relatos con una relación de tiempos y espacios más o menos aleatoria sino que la historia se desarrolla de manera prácticamente lineal y con un hilo conductor mucho más marcado.
El retrato de Yennefer y de su relación con Ciri es uno de los pasajes más interesantes del libro.
A través de él entendemos más profundamente la naturaleza de ambas y de los lazos que las unen con Geralt.
En general, es un libro más intimista que los anteriores.
