https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/827.The_Diamond_Age
I wonder what I can do about it....He then writes about 200 pages of really awesome, meticulous world-building, with innovative ideas about, in the case of this book, the possibly uses of nanotechnology and its eventual social ramifications, and then goes, Oh, damn, I'm writing a story, and high-tails it to the end of the book, leaving the reader a little wind-blown and confused.
Like-minded individuals bonded with each other through shared values and morality, united only by a commonly upheld treaty which, in turn, rested on the new economy that nanotechnology allowed.Within one of the phyles, the Neo-Victorians, one of the more highly-placed Lords realized what was wrong with the world.
If Charles Dickens climbed in an H.G. Wells time machine and went forward in time and he decided to create a post cyber-punk, progressively dystopian bildungsroman novel with a strong female lead and with a fascinating glimpse of a future that expands on the world begun in Snow Crash, he would have written this novel.
The Diamond Age by Neal Stephenson is to post-modernist science fiction thought as what Dickens was to his era: a smart, entertaining and groundbreaking new literature.
In fact I think a study could be made to determine how many works Stephenson may have influenced from this remarkable 1995 publication that won both the Hugo and Locus award for best novel.
Christmas 2010: I realised that I had got stuck in a rut. I was re-reading old favourites again and again, waiting for a few trusted authors to release new works. Something had to be done.On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award. That’s 35 books, 6 of which I’d previously read, leaving 29 titles by 14 authors who were new to me.While working through this reading list I got married, went on my honeymoon, switched career and became
Something had to be done.On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award.
As such these stories became imprinted on my memory as the soundtrack to the happiest period in my life (so far).Not long after starting my Locus Quest, I crossed paths with a fascinating purple brick of a book, by the name of 
hits the ground running and had me grinning from the get-go.There’s no point bushing-around-the-beat, it’s time to put-my-table-on-the-cards and wear-my-sleeve-on-my-heart: I loved this book!
Lord Finkle-McGraw fears that the neo-Victorian society is too hidebound and commissions Hackworth to use his skills to create a children’s book that will develop a more educated and inquiring mind.
It’s an inconclusive and disappointing ending.Overall, despite its weaknesses, The Diamond Age is still a worthwhile read for those who appreciate brain-challenging science fiction.5 stars for the first half.
He got together a focus group of 25 unpaid, thirteen year old boys and made them puke out as many buzz words in 10 minutes that they could about science fiction.
Stephenson then roiled together this mess with a rag mop and wrung it into a bucket called The Diamond Age: Or A Young Lady's Illustrated Primer.To give you a thin sample of this overreaching heterogeneous brew, I took from pages 461-487 (2 random consecutive chapters) all the words that would intrigue young science fiction fans in the year 1995.
At least none of the girls are raped.The Diamond Age, Or a Young Lady's Illustrated Primer was an interesting, convoluted, frustrating book packed with ideas, characters and too little plot.
It was eligible for a re-read--or at least a re-listen, as I'm told the narrated version is quite enjoyable--until the rape and the narrative mish-mash at the end.The story revolves around Nell, a young girl living with an older brother, her mother and her mother's series of boyfriends, and John Percival Hackworth, creator of The Young Lady's Illustrated Primer.
But then other stories come into play and confusion sets in - at least in my head it did!
- and it is like a roller coaster coming off the rails and crashing very, very suddenly on the last page.One thing about Mr Stephenson though is that he really has a way with words.
I like words so I enjoyed all this even though it made reading a slower process than usual.So I did enjoy much of the book, only getting really lost with the advent of the Drummers, finding my feet again for a while and then becoming totally unable to get my head around the Mouse Army.
I have to admit, this is a dense read sometimes in the way that hard sci-fi can be: Glazing over at "tech speak tech speak tech speak." If you fall of the tech-speak train you start to glaze over a bit and get confused, or at least I do.
That said, something about this book REALLY gripped me, I definitely was drawn into the character of Nell, and even though the society and tech confused me a bit, I just skimmed forward a bit and got right on track.
I would love to read another book in this universe and about Nell considering how much work I put into absorbing it all!
The mix of high technology, the sophisticated neo-Victorians, and the Confuscians made a confusing but ultimately satisfying story.I came to The Diamond Age with a vague idea of what the book was about.
Like previous steampunk books I read, there was a combination of neo-Victorian sensibilities, technologies different than what we're used to, and a huge disparity between classes.
Go too quickly in The Diamond Age and you end up in an underwater rave wondering what the heck just happened.The book was definitely worth reading for any fan of the author.
You're going to have a great time.Sometimes I feel like part of the joy of reading Neal Stephenson is the point at which you realize all the characters are a bit robotic and the absurdly numerous plot lines will never be resolved and the book occasionally reads like a particularly entertaining text book and that none of these things are stopping you from loving every word.
Yes!It amuses me that in addition to being a CS nerd Stephenson likes a bit of a mysticism.
I seem to recall Anathem was a bit like this as well, and that book was even dorkier
Characters are disposed quite expediently, conflict is introduced with little or no explanation, very illogical events occur, and then the book stops.
If I could give different ratings to both half of the books, I would.The whole book is laced with tangents which I found to be rather dull.
I cared very little for Hackworth's mission after he created the Primer.
I cared very little for what Dr. X was attempting to do with the Primer.
In the first half of the book, Nell captures most of the focus, which makes these other aspects simply minor annoyances.In the end, I found the book to be enjoyable.
The YLIP is designed in the book for a 4 year old girl, Fiona, but Nell and a few other girls end up with them also.
One of the pieces of magic of the Young Ladies Illustrated Primer was that for Nell and Fiona's editions, there were live actors ("ractors") on the other end, reading all the lines 1 on 1.
This put a level of personalization and human connection into the story for the girls that wouldn't have been possible otherwise.
Learning about the marketplace of ractors was particularly interesting and it's hard to think such a thing won't exist in 2-5 years as VR takes off.
This last aspect has the combined effect of a Rocky montage sequence or even more disconcertingly the final episode of an unexpectedly cancelled tv series trying to answer all of the questions from their mythology that they initially thought they'd have 5 years to dripfeed you.
In an ideal world the Baroque Cycle has allowed Stephenson to tell his stories in a better (if long winded) style and potentially amazing novels will no longer be ruined by trying to squeeze them in to a paltry 500 pages.
Up to about halfway through, I was in love with this book, but then Hackworth goes to the Drummers and we skip 10 years, and my thoughts are like this: if you as a writer didn't care about those 10 years enough to write about them, why do I care enough to read them?
The last 50 pages or so make zero sense given the rest of the novel, and the ending itself seems more like just a stop rather than an ending.
So, if you're considering this novel because you loved "Snow Crash" (which was mindblowingly good), skip it, instead.
I feel like this book demands analysis, and I don't know enough to provide it.
Which, OK, is worth doing, but it's 3:42am and I've been reading since about 8pm, so forgive me if I don't open it up again just now.I want a primer.I also want more about Dr X and Lord Finkle-McGraw.
And I want to know more about what happened to Judge Fang and his assistants, although I'll admit that this (unlike Dr X and Lord Finkle-McGraw?) is outside the scope of the story.
Like, even more than I want a pony, though not as much as I want a primer.
6.0 stars. Among the best books I have ever read (although slightly behind Snow Crash as my favorite Neal Stephenson novel). Neal's books are just loaded with great dialogue, mind-stretching ideas and a world as complex as our own. HIGHEST POSSIBLE RECOMMENDATION!! Nominee: Arthur C. Clarke Award for Best Science Fiction NovelNominee: John W. Campbell Award for Best Science Fiction NovelNominee: Prometheus Award for Best Science Fiction NovelWinner: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction NovelWinner: Locus Award for Best Science Fiction Novel
The problem for me is the initial inundation of unfamiliar words, some are of the author's invention, the others are just English words not in my vocabulary!The book focuses on the trials and tribulations of several protagonists and one central character, a little girl from a poor family called Nell.
While I love the setting of this strange future world where nanotechnology pervades every aspect of life, my initial difficulty with the book is that I found one of the protagonists (Hackworth, damn him!) less than endearing and his part of the story hard to follow as he is a genius nanotechnologist and a lot of the technical details Stephenson describes in these chapters go right over my head.
Full review on AvalinahsBooks. 3 reasons why you should read this:Reason #1.  It's A Utopia For Once  How many times have you actually read a Utopia? Huh? (I can hear you silently disappearing into the night, one by one.) Cause you probably have not.  It's all about dystopia! The last utopia I've heard of? I think it must have been the one written by Thomas More. Because after that, it's been one dystopia after another, and frankly? Sick. And. Tired. Which is why I'm so glad to actually read a c
How many times have you actually read a Utopia?
Which is why I'm so glad to actually read a contemporary Utopia!
Neal Stephenson has crafted an incredible world here.
This particular story focuses on how small events make big changes come up in societies.
Because at times I felt like maybe it didn't need to be 500 pages long or present so much detail to keep the story going.
And considering the book is already 500 pages long, I don't want to be reading it slower than I have to.
Naturally, this work was never meant to fall into the hands of a poor young girl from the slums… In parallel, we have the story of Mr. Hackworth, the creator of the “Young Lady’s Illustrated Primer”, who wants a better life for his own daughter: he understands that the class struggle is a very real problem that few people can hope to transcends, and he finds it his duty as a father to equip his daughter as best as he can, even if that means doing something not-quite-legal… The smaller story-lines of Judge Fang, the magistrate who gets tangled in Hackworth’s case, and Miranda, the voice of the Primer, make the book a rich and multifaceted story.I really enjoyed the format, but then I am an absolute sucker for Victoriana – with or without nanobots!
Visionary but flawedThe end felt rushed, and the notion of ethnic phyles frustratingly backward from our present perspective. Worth reading for his vision of the nanotech future.
Or maybe that I didn't quite believe the world building: in Stephenson's view of the future, nation-states have been replaced by smaller phyles (i.e. communities or organizations), such as the stuffy, archaic neo-Victorians who are the primary focus of the plot.
I didn't agree that the rise of ubiquitous nanotechnology would dissolve the nation state or that the world would remain largely poor and polluted [as a comparison, in 1980, 45% of the world lived in poverty; it was 9.5% in 2015].But then, with about 100 pages to go, it all clicked into place.
And voila: The Diamond Age.Like Hackworth, the hacker supreme in The Diamond Age, Stephenson seems to be unable to resist anything that is supremely clever.
And sometimes, like with this book, the cleverness pays off.
Among the various levels of coolness in this book, perhaps the best is the way he starts to merge the book within the book with the book itself.The book also sports his typical weakness: hit characters rarely leap out and become more than the type he starts with.
But I still am left with a certain empty feeling that I have at the end of his books.
It has taken me a while to figure out what I think of this book, and I'm still not entirely sure.
It was entertaining, sure, and the world rich and inventive, the characters interesting, but if I were to tell you what the book were about...I wasn't sure.
I think I have a better idea now, but I might just be projecting.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
The Diamond Age: Nanotech, Neo-Victorians, Princess Nell’s Primer, and the Fists of Righteous Harmony – all we need now is the kitchen sinkOriginally posted at Fantasy LiteratureI am a huge Neal Stephenson fan based on his novels Snow Crash and Cryptonomicon, two of my favorite books.
When Hackworth gets exposed, he blackmails Hackworth into helping the Celestial Kingdom develop a new and revolutionary type of nanotech called the Seed.The stage is set brilliantly for the first half of the book, interspersed with numerous episodes of Nell’s virtual experiences with the Primer, including increasingly complicated challenges involving Turing machines and learning binary and programming.
I feel as though that's a trite thing to say, but I'm not talking about the overall story, I'm talking about the way each sentence is crafted.
As far as the overall story, there's a lot to like, plenty of varied characters, several story lines that are more closely woven than one might originally think, and plenty of action.
There's a kind of girl power aspect to it all that's especially nice.While it is set in what Stephenson imagines to be the not-too-distant future, it also has fairy tale elements that mostly stem from the Primer itself, although also from the very concept of a young girl embarking on adventures alone.
I loved this book, especially the Neo-Victorian culture. I did feel that some parts lagged and I did flick forward a bit midway. Neal Stephenson is one of my favourite authors, and I do give him credit for each of his books being based on a completely different paradigm.Beautifully written but not quite on the same level as Snow Crash or Anathem for instance.
In a future where synthetically assembled diamond is as ubiquitous as glass, where almost anything can be designed and created atom by atom, where the poor are wretchedly poor and the rich are bored and stodgy, and where cultures have come massively adrift from their geographical moorings but have grown ever more rigid and and closed off from each other, one young girl from the ghetto is handed a dangerous, subversive, life-changing book called A Young Lady's Illustrated Primer.
It is also the story of that girl's journey from childhood to maturity, of an audacious theft and a bungled robbery--both with world-changing consequences--and of a young interactive actress's growing relationship with a child she had never seen.This is a more mature work than Stephenson's earlier 
I'm abandoning this book at 50% - one star because I think I deserve the credit for slogging through it, though.
Although I don't demand that a book tie up every loose end, I feel cheated when I invest myself in a character only for his or her story to stop when it feels like the conflict is barely concluded.The Diamond Age exemplifies both the positive and negative hallmarks of Stephenson's style.
And while The Diamond Age, like Snow Crash, depicts humanity as an organism at the society level, it does not entirely feel like a Stephenson book until much later in the story, when Hackworth introduces the concept of the Seed.Ah, there's Stephenson's theme of information as a viral construct that is capable of reprogramming human society.
Neuromancer with nanotech and lazy, badly edited, self-indulgent writing and plot. One could possibly praise Stephenson for explaining how his nano-tech works when nobody else does, but that would be a mistake, because the way Stephenson explains it, it just won't work.Even worse than the plotting and writing is the conclusion Stephenson draws about the Chinese, which is blatently condradicted by everything the Chinese do in the novel...what a waste of time. Even more frustration occurs because it could have been good - some interesting ideas and characters go to waste.
