https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40869.Suldrun_s_Garden
ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature.As I'm writing this, Jack Vance's under-appreciated Lyonesse trilogy has been off the shelves for years.
Publishers have been printing a seemingly endless stream of vampire and werewolf novels these days — same plot, same characters, blah blah blah.
Or maybe it's that more women are reading fantasy these days and publishers think we want to read about bad-ass heroines who kill vampires.
But what's best is Jack Vance's unique style.
Still, when exercised to excess it becomes tiresome.If you can find a used copy of Suldrun's Garden, the first of the Lyonesse trilogy, snatch it up.
“Forget it, he’s rolling.”And just like John “Brother Bluto” Blutarsky Jack Vance was rolling, but in his own, weird atavistic and eclectic style.Along with faerie stories straight out of Celtic Twilight, there are creepy and dark tales from Brothers Grimm and the Black Forest, and also some gratuitous and graphic medieval violence.There are the Ska, a dramatically interesting and cruelly charismatic race of people who have a fascinating ten thousand year cultural history – that we don’t read enough about.There are characters to whom we are introduced and in whom we are invested that … kind of just go away.There are great disjointed inconsistencies that … intrigue and make me want to read the next book.It’s like the really pretty girl in high school who is inexplicably not asked out to prom.
I was actually rather amazed at the sheer scope of where we started, from a princess's childhood (Suldrun), her setup as a fairytale, then the betrayal of her wonderful prince (Aillas), their love, and their tragedy merely sets the stage, even if it takes up a sizable portion of the book.
The rest of the tale happens to be one of the best written and most imaginative, quickly paced, and thoroughly satisfying traditional fantasy novels I've ever read, staying firmly on the road of adventure, adventure, adventure.Aillas's tragedy is only the starting point, after all, and making a ladder out of bones is just the beginning, especially after he learns that his lost Suldrun had a child.
The Arthurian Round Table and the quest of King Casmir of Lyonesse to recover it will form the main theme of the trilogy, but on this basic frame Jack Vance builds a meandering and many branched tale, often taking detours and sidetrips to explore the many natural wonders, the magical features and the curious habits of the people of the Elder Isles.
The placing of the imaginary Elder Isles in the Atlantic is also drawing parallels to the ancient fate of Atlantis, the sunken kingdom, and hints at a similar impending doom are scattered throughout the epic, mostly from ‘gnomic utterances’ of the most powerful magician around, named Murgen.
If Lyonesse were a food, it would be: Bits of different kinds of things all thrown into one receptacle but where you can still taste each individual food item, all smothered with custardy gooey goodness.
So, how about a Lyonesse recipe you ask?
1 loaf of fantasy geopolitical intrigue, heated till crisp and diced finely A large punnet of wild fairy talesA large cup of piquant tongue-in-cheek Another large cup of creamy purple prose Old myths for seasoning - Marinate your wild fairy tales with the piquant tongue-in-cheek- Place one layer of wild fairy tales in your receptacle - Cover with a layer of dicey hot geopolitical intrigue - Repeat the layers until the receptacle is full - Smother the whole thing with the creamy prose and douse with the remaining tongue-in-cheek- Sprinkle heavily with old myths or to tasteYummmm… delish!
Jack Vance is the best writer you've never heard of.You can get lost in his tales whilst still believing that you are looking into the lives of real people.
They may be people 10,000 or 100,000 years in the future; or further back, in some Ur-Common myth.
I sought these books many times in yesteryear.
What I remember from the first time is: being impressed with the way Vance did fantasy.
I was moved in a way I have never been with Tolkien or C.S. Lewis, Martin, or whomever.
So, this is no ordinary fairy tale, it's adult.
The book describes a series of events which are begun by the birth of neglected and unappreciated Suldrun, princess and daughter of the crowned heads of Lyonesse - King Casmir and Queen Sollace.
The book reminded me of novels that were serialized in newspapers where the narrated journey of the different characters is more interesting than the ending.
His characters live in an interesting, and eventually interlocking, world, but it is a novel of seemingly separate Grimm's-like fairy tales at first.
The author has included a trope for every European fairy tale element and character I know about and many of whom I have never read anything, until now.
Crisp and complex, with a surprisingly bold earthiness, and an elegant opulent finish; the heady aromatics are reminiscent of oaks in bloom. Pairs well with edam.
In the end Suldrun’s story ends sadly and, without committing an egregious case of spoilers, I think I can say that it is left to Aillas to find a way to avenge his love and find his missing child.The remainder of the book pursues several paths as we follow each of the main players in the drama that is unfolding: Shimrod, the ‘scion’ of Murgen the greatest magician of the Elder Isles, finds himself drawn into this royal drama that eventually becomes a war of vengeance and succession between two great kingdoms.
This story...I can only say, the narrative brings the Lord of the Rings to mind, that with genealogies, the lore, the mild tone.
“What are dreams?
Ordinary experience is a dream.
The eyes, the ears, the nose: they present pictures on the brain, and these pictures are called ‘reality.’ At night, when we dream, other pictures, of source unknown, are impinged.
Sometimes the dream-images are more real than ‘reality.’ Which is solid, which illusion?
When we admire a beautiful maiden, do we evaluate the particular bones of her skull?
Accept beauty on its own terms: this is the creed of Villa Meroe.”

Does any other author write amazing and strange fantasy so eloquently as Jack Vance? The question is nuncupatory.
The first book in the Lyonesse series Suldrun's Garden is a mixed bag of reading experiences.
Plot Suldrun's garden is a low fantasy set against the backdrop of Arthurian Myths.
Many times the beautiful narration works its magic as we explore the world of Suldrun, but more often than not it slows down reading and fails to generate interest in the plot or the characters.Characters The characters in the novel were often unsatisfying.
There are a few good moments in the novel but they are far too few in between.Recommended to readers who prefer traditional style of fantasy and love detailed narrations.
This is the 29th Vance novel/collection that i have read and The Dying Earth novels with Cugel, Rialtho is still my all-time favorite Vance because i like the world of Dying Earth so much but this is easily the best i have read of this legendary author.
I dont even like to read High fantasy usually but a dense for a Vance novel, story that is so imaginative, bold, ambitious and Vance at his literary best when it comes to prose style, use of language.
It wasn’t initially clear to me where this Atlantean land in which the tale unfolds was situated in time; the language and mores felt largely like those of the late middle ages (or, at any rate, with that Arthurian feel of the late middle ages from which much high fantasy takes its tone) but the references did not truly help to place it anywhere - or, rather, anywhen.
I think this fantasy trilogy may well be my favourite.
The dangers and cruelties of the Elder Isles anticipate the modern hard-boiled fantasy epics of Martin, Abercombie et al, yet the language is that of high chivalry, arch wit and sharp irony.
For every danger and cruelty, however, there is wonder and kindness and joy.
The books, also, are unashamedly drenched with magic and crowded with fey personages, possibly the best fictional representation of fairies I have ever read, wonderful creatures utterly without conscience.The story is long and strange and always unexpected.
Vance's evocation of a fantasy landscape is unparalleled.
This is copy 97 of 500 numbered clothbound copies signed by the author.
I recall thinking that it seemed like an effort to get in on the latest Arthurian craze (Marion Zimmer Bradley's  Mists of Avalon came out around the same time.
While I've upgraded my ranking from a remembered two stars to three, it's this poor closing, rather than my earlier quibbles, that prevents the book from getting four.It's a good story, but I continue to suspect that the praise it got when issued was more a recognition of Vance's historic skill than for the story itself.
Overall, this is good, and worth reading (as a full trilogy), but it's not Vance's best work.CVIE V*** It took me a while to post this review, since I picked the book up to read just around the time Jack Vance died.
Things go awry and several characters wind up stranded, orphaned or whatnot, and the novel generally follows some of them trying to survive, others looking for them, and a little conquest.While the events of the plot are interesting in theory, Vance has two big problems.
Sometimes a character will need to do something and the next paragraph will simply say they did it and move the plot on, making one wonder why Vance included the problem at all.
Vance also doesn’t develop his characters into anything particularly novel following their trials, so it doesn’t feel like there’s progress despite a great number of things happening.
It's been a reminder for me of how important it is to revisit loved books: the stories never remain the same - we see them through different eyes as we grow older.G.R.R. Martin took, no doubt, a lot of inspiration from Lyonesse for his A Song of Ice and Fire series - the geography of both worlds is similar as well as its intrigues, horrors, tragic love stories and magic.
In this particular story, Vance has gone to extreme lengths to be especially unforgiving towards his characters, and there is elegant and discreetly described rape, torture, murder, and various other atrocities, so fair warning to those with delicate literary dispositions.
There are fantastical creatures one would expect, and some that are particular to this series.
I've just begun reading the next book in the series, so I don't know if they will continue to be as delicious, but I suspect it would be impossible for them not to be.
Jack Vance puts together a huge cast of characters, a large island full of political intrigue, fairy realms and magic.
Through all this, he comes up with a solid story and great prose to boot.Politically, this island (south of the British Isles, west of France) has intrigues and minor skirmishes aplenty.
At the mid point of the novel, two of these nations undertake a minor war, framing that section of the story and introducing one of the many main characters.Magically, this island has several reclusive wizards who are mostly in competition with each other, though respecting some sort of compact.
The setting is the Elder Isles, a magical realm that occupies the seas south of Dark-Ages Britain and Ireland.
The people and the culture of the Elder Isles are beautifully brought to life by Vance's almost-poetic prose, which moves seamlessly between the hard edges of epic fantasy and the winsome quality of the Elder Isles' dark fairy-tale world.
Mischievous fey, witches, trolls, and powerful sorcerers define the web of magic that weaves through the high-fantasy politics of Vance's realm, creating a fascinating hybrid that should appeal to readers across the fantasy spectrum.
The only reason I persevered and finished this book is because it was a book club selection.
The first third of the book was so tedious with the history of the Elder Islands and all the politics and wars.
And it seemed like every chapter introduced 8 more characters.
This isn’t a story for the faint-hearted.
Characters were disemboweled, hung, burned, boiled in oil, stretched and poisoned.
This book could have used an index of characters at the beginning and less history, but otherwise it was an entertaining story.
Vance offers us a book that is meandering, but endearingly meandering. I was only mildly entertained as the characters were introduced, but they all grow quickly and soon have real weight. There are very few amazing, jaw droppingly awesome scenes or concepts, but I was constantly intrigued, and every few pages Vance writes a line that cuts deep.
In fact, Vance tells us this fact nearly at the beginning of the story, adding to his writing an aura of a long-lost heritage and nostalgia for something that will never return.‘Lyonesse’ is a novel with several main characters – one of them is a young prince called Aillas.
So we have the late Middle Ages traditions like jousting and chivalry combined with the political nuances of the collapsing Roman Empire; we have medieval dances, music and architecture existing in contrast with the pre-Christian, semi-barbaric culture saturated with magic.In short, Vance’s ‘Lyonesse’ is a great read.
Lyonesse est un des cycles les plus importants de l’œuvre de Jack Vance et souvent reconnu comme un jalon majeur de la littérature fantasy (à juste titre).
L’action prend place dans les Isles Anciennes, un archipel d’îles situé quelque part entre le Sud de l’Angleterre et la Bretagne.
On retrouve bien des liens avec l’Histoire, notamment le mythe du Roi Arthur (ainsi que Celtes, etc.), cependant on est bien loin du roman historique avec magiciens cachés derrière les figures du pouvoir et autres fééries.
L’ensemble du roman est construit sur l’opposition entre le Troicinet et le Lyonesse, deux des royaumes les plus puissants des Isles Anciennes.
I approached this novel with a bit of trepidation, as Jack Vance is usually known more for his science fiction works than for fantasy novels, but Lyonesse may be one of the best novels i've ever read. Part fairy tale, part Wodehousian comedy-of-manners and part Game of Thrones political scheming, Vance weaves a dense and enchanting tale of the fictional Elder Isles that's rich in allusion and myth.
