https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32087.All_Creatures_Great_and_Small_All_Things_Bright_and_Beautiful
I found myself re-reading certain paragraphs just because I enjoyed how he expressed certain concepts.Secondly, I like being taken to another time and place.
Reading about Yorkshire farmers surviving through the depression with the old dialect that the author uses to good effect provides me with a vicarious experience of life on the Dales and with a group of people I will never meet in real life.Thirdly, I enjoy the way he intertwines his personal life, the two vets he lives with and their personalities and interactions and also meeting his wife with his veterinary practice.
I recently paid a nostalgic return journey to fictional Darrowby in Yorkshire, England, to read the warm, affectionate, earthy, hilarious memoirs of Dr. James Herriot, veterinary surgeon (circa mid 1930s -- 1970s).
I couldn't put them down, nor could I read anything else until I'd consumed the entire series.
(Must add I'm also fond of his relish for full-figured ladies.) I realize memoirs of this type run the risk of being sentimentalized and idealized, but so what?
Dr. James Herriot (nee Dr. Alf Wight) is someone I would have liked to know, and thanks to his copious output, I feel that I do.
The first scene caught my attention right off.
He's saying, they never tell you about this in school, then he describes the scene he's in: its a dark, winter night, he's got his arm inside of a cow up to the elbow trying to maneuver the calf inside her.
He's stripped to the waist, lying on the ground as the cow is and the only light is the lamp that the farmer is holding.
That got my attention.
Its full of little anecdotes about his adventures in the field of veterinary medicine and his interactions with the farmers and townsfolk of a fictional town called Darrowby.
My ABSOLUTE fave!!
I read the series as a teen, watched the PBS series whenever it ran and mourned when Herriot died.
Herriot's an insightful observer of human nature and the perfect foil for the eccentrics in his rural community.
His career coincided with all manner of scientific advances that competed with folk remedies and superstition in the minds of the people.I've spent a small fortune on my dogs and cats so it's interesting to learn from Herriot that at the time he went to vet school pets were not covered in the curriculum -- only livestock.I may take this book to the beach with me this year -- it's time to re-read it.
Every few years I read these stories again and I always enjoy them as much as I did the first time.
James Herriot(Alf White http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_He...
such an interesting window into a unique time and place.
I have always wondered if he was a naturally gifted writer or if he had a really good editor.
Either way, these stories are so well-written that I enjoyed them although I would not say I am an animal-lover.
I am an animal respecter, and I certainly believe we have responsibilities to be conscientious toward all creatures and these stories show all aspects of human emotions in relation to each other and animals.
I loved this series of books. When I first read them in high school I wanted to move to Scotland and become a country veterinarian. I reread them again summer, and fell in love with them all over again. When James Herriot talks about how much he loves his job, driving around the country lanes with the windows down on a beautiful day, or taking his lunch breaks lying on his back in the grass staring up at the clouds in the sky, you wonder how you can stand another day of working in an office building.
It was great to settle in with an old friend. I read this series over & over in my childhood years, up through high school. James Herriot is why I wanted to be a vet--until I came up against chemistry, that is! I LOVELOVELOVE this entire series. His warmth, intuitive descriptions of his animal patients and their humans, and genuine delight of life are a wonderful gift to the world. I'm reviewing all the books in this series the same way, so you only have to read this review once! ; )
James Herriot (Dr. White) is on my top ten list of authors. I had no interest in cow farming or in Yorkshire England, but he took me there as an arm chair traveler. Then I actually traveled there, saw the surgery, Skeldale house, funky blue car, fields, cows and sheep (their descents). What a thrill!
I often tell myself not to give a book 5 stars because, well, I know I can be a little too exuberant at times.
Not this time.
Mr Herriot's writing skills are only matched by his skills as a vet, which is blatantly obvious in this delightful collection of tales.
This book is tear-jerking from laughter and sentiment, and an impeccable balance of all the features found in the very best of memoirs.
I feel like the author has preserved a way of life that is rapidly vanishing if not already gone, made the duty of remembering a sheer delight, and made me long to be a part of.
Mr Herriot, I salute you sir.
Actually, I am a little surprised with myself that I actually read a book about a vet in the 1930s in England.
After reading Mr. Herriot's "All Creatures Great and Small", I still don't like animals.
But, I do like Mr. Herriot.
I like his "patient" relationship with his employer.
I like his appreciation of the beauty around him.
I like his candor and frankness is his writing.
I like that he has weaknesses and strengths that I could relate with.
I like that I could recommend his book to other not-animal people and I think that they would like Mr. Herriot too.
I LOVE HERRIOT'S STORIES!
I read all 4 of these books (including Wise and Wonderful and The Lord God Made Them All).
Herriot's accounts of being a country vet in the 1940s are earthy and fascinating - I remember a scene where a sheep is trying to give birth to twins and Herriot has his sleeve rolled up and his arm inside the sheep trying to separate the tangled legs and bodies to bring the lambs into the world, alive ...
Many of the cat and dog stories are hysterically funny and the vet assistant, Tristan, remains one of my most-loved comic foils ever.
Всичките книги на този британски ветеринар са написани с такава огромна любов към животните и стопаните им, че когато ги прочетеш (и после пак, и пак, и пак...) неволно започваш да се замисляш защо омразата към живите същества още не се наказва от закона... Имам тези книги от 80-те години на миналия век и продължавам да ги препрочитам... колкото да си възвърна вярата в хората и да си въобразя поне за миг, че не всички са изверги като Д. Р. (дълга история...). Ако можех, щях да ѝ дам 10 звезди.
I love all of James Herriot's books. They are some of my all-time favorites that I read again and again. Herriot is one of the few authors that makes me laugh out loud. I can pick up one of his books and open it to any page and just start reading for the sheer enjoyment of his writing style. Highly recommended for anyone and everyone, especially anglophiles, animal lovers, and people who value rural pastoral settings and the simple life.
This is one of those books that feels happy to read. I wouldn't say that the plot or the protagonist (the reminiscences or the author, depending on how fictionalized you view the stories) are unmitigatedly happy, but every time I picked it up, it made me feel better about the world. Such books are few and far between, and I treasure them.
I usually eschew anything which might be considered heart-warming. It's an allergy, I think. Anyway, I love these books. Mostly because Herriot includes just enough of the stupid and gross to keep the reader for drowning in a bucket of twee. Rural vet is not for the squeamish.
I really enjoyed the clever, very well written stories in these two volumes. Had me laughing out-loud at parts. Unfortunately, there is quite a bit of language speckled throughout the stories, so readers beware. Overall though, a very engaging read.
An amazing book, brought a smile to my face every time I picked it up. A heartwarming book!
Best read when you need a break from the horrors of life in the city. Follow along with country vet and experience humor, empathy , compassion, and mostly thankfulness .and
I really enjoyed the author's lyrical style. His stories are charming, strung together like pearls on a string- very sweet
James Herriot is incredible. Poignant and touching, kind and compassionate, his stories offer insight into a bygone era and the beautiful lives (human and animal) that called it home.
I just had to re read this book. It was great 25 years ago and more so today! A true classic.
One of my all time favorites! Witty, hilarious, heartrending, completely intoxicating!
loved this series
I enjoyed these stories with a touch of humor.
I will read anything by James Herriot over and over. Wonderful stories that transport you to a time forgotten which you wish you had lived in
Terrifically written. Stories humorous and endearing about a young animal vet as he embarks on his career as a country vet.
I'm a little late to the table with this one and I actually owned several of his books at one time.
It was my lifelong dream from the time I was little.
So, the books were gifts but I didn't want to read about the career of someone who was doing what I had dreamt of all my life.
So, now that I am retired and was watching on a podcast a visit to Herriott's countryside, I decided it was time to read his books.
I can't wait to read the rest of his books.
Really fun. It makes me want to be a vet all over again, as if I were seven years old again. But it's so interesting to hear about the animal case studies and how he solved the malady, etc...Plus he paints such delightful pictures of the human clients he meets! The only thing that keeps this from being great literature is that the messages behind each little vignette are repeated. I wonder if he originally wrote them as installments in a newspaper as a columnist?
Twenty -five years ago, a volume of memiors by an unknown Scottish veterinarian was first published- All Creatures Great and Small. Within a year, the book had become recognized as a masterpiece. The pages are full of humour, warmth, pathos, drama and James Herriot's unique and richly justified love of life as he journeys across the Yorkshire dales. With his passion and love for his fellow creatures. Makes this book a must read.
