https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/401550.The_Classical_Style
The classical period is principally characterized by sonata form and tonality.
We can agree with Sir Donald Tovey that we do violence to compositions by interpreting them as if sonata form constitutes a set of binding rules rather than a post-facto abstraction of what the masters of the classical period actually did.
Elegance of structure was taken by the classical masters as an end in itself, and their harmonies glide on a framework they trace and enact.
An understanding of the classical period is not only relatively easy to acquire, but of central importance to understanding nearly all subsequent composition.
They would perhaps say that his form was developed by the sons of J.S. Bach and by Haydn, and that its gradual breakdown which was to lead to the romantic style was begun by Beethoven.To ascribe to the late eighteenth century a rigorous use of schemes not in fact formalised until the mid nineteenth is a ridiculous idea, soon exploded by seeing how frequently Haydn and Mozart fail to conform to the strict dictates of sonata form: the wrong number of themes, the wrong keys, tricks to deceive the ear into thinking the end is approaching, and so on.
A classic text on the Classical subject; does all the things you'd imagine.
From this book I have gained a better understanding not only of Haydn, Mozart, and Beethoven, but also of music in general.
In addition, my whole understanding of sonata form is much deeper and complete than ever before.
In fact, my sense of musical structure has been greatly enriched.
Reading this book is pretty much the equivalent of a really good advanced college music course, without being too obscure or esoteric for anyone who can read music and has a decent grasp of basic tonal harmony.
I just can't say enough good things about this book.
A book I have gone back to again and again - partly because I didn't fully understand it the first time that I read it.
Rosen makes academic musicology accessible to those who are curious but untutored, however you do have to put the book down sometimes to let you brain have a rest.
On occasions, as when writing about the pastoral style in Haydn's symphonies, he can become quite poetic.
I wish he would write about what the music might be expressing a little more often rather than just tonic - dominant technicalities, but still a magisterial opus.
A kimże ja jestem, żeby taką biblię recenzować.
One of the best books on music I've read.
I would have given it five stars but for the Haydn chapters, and that's my fault: you really have to know the music to get very much from this book, and I'm not very well versed in Haydn.
Last night I had one of those excellent moments* when you can't even continue reading because you have to allow yourself time to absorb what was just said.
*For any fellow geeks out there, said moment was his point that early in Beethoven's fourth piano concerto the tonic G chord is made, by sheer rhythmic force, to become in effect a dissonance that must be resolved to D.
Just a quotation - pp.162-63The pretension of Haydn’s symphonies to a simplicity that seems to come from Nature itself is no mask but the true claim of a style whose command over the whole range of technique is so great that it can ingenuously afford to disdain the outward appearance of high art.
Pastoral is generally ironic with the irony of one who aspires to less than he deserves, hoping he will be granted more.
But Haydn’s pastoral style is more generous, with all its irony: it is the true heroic pastoral that cheerfully lays claim to the sublime, without yielding any of the innocence and simplicity won by art
Excellent reference material, but it's written dryly.
What a slog! For me, this book does not necessarily need to be read sequentially. There are nougats on almost every page, and the writing is dense. Of course Rosen is opinionated and erudite -- that makes him more fun and all the more intimidating. THE CLASSICAL STYLE really is a brilliant achievement, with numerous musical examples. It's much more about Mozart and Haydn than about Beethoven.
A fascinating quick read offering advice as to practice, study habits (sight read all of the Schubert and Beethoven piano sonatas) and glimpses into the world of piano competitions and recordings. Esoteric, but interesting.Oh no...this review is for the book PIANO NOTES by the same author...but when tapped, this book appeared and I did not catch the error until posted!
I really enjoyed Rosen's style of writing but I felt he didn't go into enough detail on how the composers were inspired by different composers and some of the analysis seemed overly technical and a bit pseudo-Shenckerian rather than actually looking into the cultural phenomena that were 'The Three.' Otherwise he makes a compelling argument.
Arguably the most significant musicology book of the 20th century. Every time I pick it up I come away with a new insight into the music I've been listening to since I was a wee little one. Some music theory knowledge is necessary to understand much of what Rosen discusses, but it's worth it for those who really want to understand how this music works.
The introduction is somewhat off-putting, particularly when Rosen describes what contents he will and will not include and why, but the following text does contain information that warrants continued reading.
Currently re-reading actually. This is the very best book I've ever read that I hardly understand at all. The really priceless thing is that reading it again has made me listen to Haydn String Quartets. They are sublime. And Mozart String Quintets which are sublime and also gut-wrenching.
Undoubtedly a classic of its kind, particularly the chapters on Haydn Trios and Mozart Quintets. Always makes me want to go back and listen to the music, no higher praise.
Rosen! I love this guy's writing. It is fascinating and makes me want to write music as I read along.
Brilliant, but beyond my ken.
Loved it!
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/11/art...
