https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/153530.The_Blessing
I'm on Team Sigi.& that's really all I want to say about this wonderful novel. If this is Mitford's weakest work of fiction, her other titles must be amazing! Enjoy this book for it's wit & charm. Don't read any reviews (other than this one!) & don't read the blurbs. My copy did have very minor spoilers & I would have preferred to approach without any preconceptions!
When mischievous son, little Sigi, contrives to keep his parents apart, Mitford erupts with her funniest observations about sex and other social distractions among the French, Brits and Americans.Gossip among the Paris set : "They left the luncheon together.
They must have been in bed together the whole afternoon." --"I don't think so.
She had a fitting at Dior."As for Americans in Paris : "I wish I understood them.
Like hunting or racing, a pursuit that takes him from you of an afternoon sometimes and does you no harm." Getting Mitzed is a lot of fun.
The Blessing was new to me, and although it doesn't surpassThe Pursuit of Love in my affections, it is a comedy of manners with some truly memorable characters - the cunning Sigi and the redoubtable Nanny being my favourites.
Set mostly in post-war France - Paris and Provence - the contrast between French manners and mores and English ones provides much of the humour (and plot) in the book.
Lacking the wardrobe, cunning and wits of her French counterparts, Grace soon realises that she is hugely unprepared for a sophisticated life in Paris.
So good, and yet so dull.") Mitford neatly subordinates the unfolding of Hector Dexter's activities to the reconciliation between Charles-Edouard and Grace,allowing the reader to survey the post-war landscape-social, personal, and political — without inflating or underestimating the interest of any part.The subject of her confection is, in more ways than one, betrayal.
She wrote eight novels, several biographies, and various essays, all of which are a joy to read, but The Blessing is perhaps my favorite of her books.Grace Allingham is an English beauty; when she meets Charles-Edouard de Valhubert, a French marquis, at the outbreak of World War II, they fall in love and are soon married.
The Pursuit of Love was Mitford's fifth novel and the one that catapulted her to fame as a writer; it tells the story of the Radlett family (a thinly veiled, though exaggerated, portrait of Nancy's own family) and Linda Radlett's search for romantic love and is narrated by Fanny, a cousin of the Radletts, who is also the narrator of Love in a Cold Climate and Don't Tell Alfred.
Grace Allingham, a young and unassuming Englishwoman from an affluent background, makes the acquaintance of Charles-Edouard de Valhubert, a French Air Force officer, during the early years of the Second World War. Charming, suave, and utterly self-assured, he sweeps Grace off her feet, they quickly marry and have a short honeymoon.
Better known as "Sigi", we find him as a boy of seven (upon his father's return) with an angelic face and a puckish charm that leads him to do a little mischief every now and then.A few years pass before Charles-Edouard receives his discharge and returns to Britain from the Far East.
He returns to Grace and son like a force of nature, full of bonhomie.
On one level, this is a frivolous, entertaining story about a couple, their marital difficulties, and the little heathen they call their son (the "blessing" of the title).
On a deeper level, Mitford skillfully tells of culture clash, love, and family dysfunction, using her own situation (and clear-eyed self awareness) to poignant effect.
The humor is more subtle than that of Pursuit of Love and Love in a Cold Climate, some has faded due to time, but The Blessing is still laugh out loud funny in parts and giggle-worthy throughout most of the pages.
Finally, I hold up Sigi, the little brat, as yet another reason why I am never having children.
Après un début difficile car les personnages m'agaçaient, j'ai bien apprécié l'humour de Nancy Mitford et son regard acéré sur la haute société.
I'm a big fan of Nancy Mitford, as her books are always so bitingly clever.
Here she addresses the difference in cultures between the English and the French, lighting them both on fire with her sarcastic wit.
The main conflict takes place in the English heroine's head -- can she overcome the natural jealousy she feels at her French husband's infidelity, or learn to treat his little affairs as no more than minor annoyances, as is the custom in France?
These three characters keep the book lively and interesting.
Grace Allingham and Charles-Edouard de Valhubert are quite literally Linda Radlett and Fabrice de Sauveterre from The Pursuit of Love brought back from the dead.
By giving Charles-Edouard/Fabrice and his lackadaisical morals full reign the book, no matter how Nancy tries, isn't a love story but a reflection of an amoral society that you aren't quite sure she's making fun of or even trying to justify in some sick way.
Charles-Edouard in some ways does love Grace, but the truth is, it isn't a love I would accept on any level.
Gaston was the love of her life, she dedicated a book to him and based both Fabrice and Charles-Edouard on him.
I like Nancy Mitford. She writes well. I wanted something light, and this was that, definitely. For whatever reason, I have hardly any sense of humour when it comes to marital infidelity, and since a lot of this book was people trying to convince Grace that she was just being uptight about it, well, it didn't have me laughing. The way Sigismund, the "blessing" manipulates his parents was funny, though. I probably should have just re-read Cold Comfort Farm, since that was the vibe I was going for anyway.
Charles-Edouard's affairs, which Grace's French friends encourage her to accept as entertainments no more important than his material collections, prove more than she can endure when she walks into a room on a mansion tour and finds her husband in bed with one of his pretty, young collectibles.Before that, however, she meets dozens of unforgettable characters, from the French man who thinks English country life is personified in Wuthering Heights, to the insufferable, hectoring American, Hector Dexter, whose marriage to Grace's school friend Caroline forces her to tolerate his take on the British (who have become "frivolous" about homosexuals whom, he believes are all Communists), and American men, none of whom are "pederasts," since they are all full of "strong and lustful, but clean desire." (Charles-Edouard is chastised by Albertine when he says that he sees "goodness" shining in the eyes of Americans.
Not to be to focused on this lack though, the book very nearly makes it along the casual lines of this structure-- which does good things for the pacing and drive-- until one of the set-pieces fails along the way.
In my reading the central Famous Children Ball thrown by Mme. Marel goes flat, and sinks the arc of the book in so doing.
Shame, really, since a Mitford-trademark wicked-humourous blowout there would have carried the whole thing).Uneven, but still well worth the read, as the sacred-cow-puncturing and biting euphemism always manage to cover any soul-baring that might have been imminent; we are English here, after all.
Hmm...As WW2 is beginning, Grace receives a visit from Charles-Edouard, an aristocratic French friend of her fiancé, Hugh.
Sigi is enjoying having two parents vying to spoil him most, so he sets out to do everything he can to keep them apart…Pretending to be a satire, it’s actually a nice little fluffy romance of the type where the man is a worthless, faithless leftover from a dying breed, and the woman is a bucolic, intellectually-challenged leftover from another dying breed.
I think it’s supposed to be funny though…I skipped the last 40 pages because, you know, who cares if they get back together?www.fictionfanblog.wordpress.com
Marvelous for Mitford's exquisite devotion to France and French society, but the characters begin to grate, ever so slightly.
Whereas her frivolous society girls in The Pursuit of Love and Love in a Cold Climate come across as charming despite their ridiculousness, I spent most of this novel wanting to shake everyone, but especially Grace and Charles-Edouard.
Let us not even speak of their offspring, the precocious plot moppet extraordinaire Sigi, though it is fair to say that Mitford gave him an excellent set-up and explanation for why he is as selfish and manipulative as he is.
Still doesn't repress the urge to shake.
Amusing , Entertaining and thoroughly engaging despite the very, very silly characters.
Mitford's characters flow in and out of her various novels and a minor character in a book I just completed (Don't Tell Alfred) is the principal character in this book.
I enjoy that aspect of her writing---the feeling that you have arrived in a strange place and just happened upon someone you know --- so her books have an automatic appeal to me.This story centers on the cultural clashes resulting from the marriage of a very worldly French man and a decidedly less sophisticated British beauty.
Mitford's sense of humor seems to lead her to create less than totally sympathetic characters, but this was still a book I thoroughly enjoyed.
The Blessing is not as tart as most of Evelyn Waugh's work, or as light as P.G. Wodehouse's, but it has the flavor of both.
It's witty and worldly without being coarse.
Nancy Mitford plays on many of the familiar themes of the time (1951), including Communism, the HUAC, pre-EU stereotypes about England and France and the USA.
Apparently it was a Book of the Month Club choice in 1951 (aside: it's startling to think that American popular taste ran then to a novel liberally sprinkled with references to 18th century French literature and 17th century French drama).
I'd give this one 4 and a half stars if the option was available. Nancy Mitford had out her sharpest knife for this one. Not only are the English her target, but she carves up the French and Americans with delicious wit and malice. "The Blessing" himself should serve as a contraceptive device, or at least a warning. Very funny and perceptive.
the sequel to "love in a cold climate." really fun. beautifully written. it's a screwball comedy set in post war France. sort of like drinking champagne with a piece of lovely chocolate. highly recommend.
A reasonably amusing comedy of manners, but it lacks the venom of Mitford's other novels. It's also a little slow.
Funny and light, like a summer brunch with a glass of sparkling. Nancy Mitford novels combine wit with good insight and are excellent summer reads. This one is no exception - recommended!
**3.5 Stars**#1951Club - 10-16 April 2017
A comical novel about a naive English woman who marries a charming French man only to find that her new husband is an insatiable flirt whose liaisons with other women are as essential for his livelihood as breathing.
Grace, a nominal Protestant, eventually leaves him after finding him in bed with another woman, but even afterwards she longs for him to come and repent and take her home.Their son discovers that life with separated parents is more to his liking because he is spoiled as each tries to win his favour over the other.
I also love that Nancy Mitford can happily take the mick out of that lifestyle but also take it a step further for a laugh, for example when describing the two mothers of newborn babies who had their children laid out to sleep on a bed full of coats at a party, only to find that they couldn't tell them apart later - "With a tremendous amount of guilty giggling they spun a coin for the prettier of the two babies and left it at that."Sigismond is a fantastic character, naughty and scheming.
It does feel good to read another Nancy Mitford.
Her wit is sharp, to the point, her characters unforgettable and The Blessing is no exception.
Such eccentricity in one book, it's amazing how she does it without making it too cliché.
I found the essentialist statements to be well below her usual standards (the constant French/English comparisons are frankly strange though it has a context at least) but on the other hand in one scene one of her best characters convinces another one that homosexuality is no worse or better than heterosexuality.
Such an unexpected relief.Overall an entertaining book, though not her best it's a good, fun story.
I absolutely loved this. The writing flows from page to brain seamlessly. The story is bright and funny. There is some history there too, of which I was unaware, the continued influence of the Catholic Church in post war France, fear of Freemasons??, how the conservative upper class cling on to the old ways which seems to illuminate aspects of more recent French history. PS Grace is not a modern woman!
“Grace thought to herself how different all this was going to look in a few weeks, when it had become familiar.
Houses are entirely different when you know them well, she thought, and on first acquaintance even more different from their real selves, more deceptive about their real character than human beings.
As with human beings, you can have an impression, that is all.
Her impression of Bellandargues was entirely favourable, one of hot, sleepy, beautiful magnitude.
She longed to be on everyday terms with it, to know the rooms that lay behind the vast windows of the first floor, to know what happened around the corner of the terrace, and where the staircase led to, just visible in the interior darkness.
Englishwoman Grace Allingham impulsively marries a French nobleman, Charles-Edouard de Valhubert during WWII and has his child while he is off serving in the French Air Force.
Their son, Sigismund (Sigi) doesn’t meet his father until he is almost 7 years old.
Once they are settled in France, Sigi hears about friends whose parents are divorced who are reaping the benefits of two competing parents plus step-parents, so when Grace leaves Charles-Edouard after discovering his afternoon meetings were with beautiful women, Sigi does his best to keep them apart.
I came away from this novel wondering about Nancy Mitford's attitude towards children.
The title is ironic, the child it refers to is anything but a blessing.
His name is Sigismond and he is manipulative and scheming, and focused entirely on what he perceives to be in his own interest.
His affection for others, including his parents, is entirely based on what they are willing to lavish on him.
He is revealed as a child who will betray anyone to get what he wants, and he appears to have no redeeming features at all.

