https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64338.The_City_of_Gold_and_Lead
The city of gold and lead (The Tripods #2), John ChristopherThe City of Gold is the name given to the dwelling places of the Masters in the novel The City of Gold and Lead (1967), the second book of John Christopher's trilogy, The Tripods.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سی ام ماه سپتامبر سال 1999 میلادیعنوان: شهر طلا و سرب، از مجموعه چهارگانه های جان کریستوفر؛ نوشته: جان کریستوفر؛ مترجم: عطاء الله نوریان؛ چاپ نخست، تهران، کانون پرورش فکری کودکان و نوجوانان، 1353؛ در 214 ص؛ عنوان: شهر طلا و سرب، از مجموعه چه

Having by the skin of their teeth survived a cross-continental walk to freedom from the mind-control of the Tripods, Will and his friends now volunteer to risk their lives by joining those who enter the alien city as slaves of the Masters. First they must make another arduous journey and then triumph at an athletic competition designed to select the best and strongest specimens to serve the invaders. But getting into the city is the least horrible of the dangers that wait for the boys... Tense and creepy.
This was always my favorite from this trilogy. Maybe it's because the terror is so immediate and the danger is distilled to its essence. The aliens are terrifying and real, their city has a personality of its own, and Will remains a fascinating and flawed hero.
I have re-read these books several times over the years, and they have stood up quite well. They're quite suspenseful and interesting, without being over-the-top preachy, which a book like this easily could be. What stood out to me this time was their amazing economy. They're only around 100 pages each, yet they don't feel like slight books in any way.
"Η Πόλη του Χρυσού και του Μολύβδου", εκδόσεις Σίμωσι.Δεύτερο βιβλίο της εφηβικής σειράς επιστημονικής φαντασίας "Τρίποδες", με την ιστορία να ξεκινάει σχεδόν από το σημείο που τελείωσε η ιστορία του πρώτου βιβλίου της σειράς, με τον τίτλο "Τα Λευκά όρη".
Ο κίνδυνος για τον ίδιο και τους φίλους του θα είναι τεράστιος.
Η ιστορία κινείται στο ίδιο μήκος κύματος με αυτήν του πρώτου βιβλίου, έτσι γεμάτη με δράση και ηρωισμούς όπως είναι, η γραφή παραμένει καλή, ευκολοδιάβαστη και αρκετά περιγραφική, ενώ υπήρξαν και κάποιες ενδιαφέρουσες αποκαλύψεις για τους κακούς της ιστορίας.
خب خیلی خوب بود! واقعا «آی ریلی لایکد ایت»! کمبود هایی داشت که پنج ندادم بهش، ولی دوست داشتنی بود. شهر طلا و سرب، خوب و بدون باگ(لااقل بدون باگ واضح) ساخته شده بود. گرچه که یک وقتهایی فکر میکردم کاش یه جور بهتری کشف میکرد ویژگیهاش رو برای خواننده!
خب خیلی خوب بود! واقعا «آی ریلی لایکد ایت»! کم‌بود هایی داشت که پنج ندادم بهش، ولی دوست داشتنی بود. شهر طلا و سرب، خوب و بدون باگ(لااقل بدون باگ واضح) ساخته شده بود. گرچه که یک وقت‌هایی فکر می‌کردم کاش یه جور بهتری کشف می‌کرد ویژگی‌هاش رو برای خواننده!
Book Two of the trilogy about a century from now when mankind is slave to the Tripods, giant war machines that control men through Caps which are ritualistically affixed to their skulls at adolescence.
This time they enter a pseudo-Olympics thing fake-Capped and get inside one of the cities of the Tripods where they discover the horrible shit that is actually happening: the real rulers are these fucking hideous and weird aliens called The Masters.
Humans are their slaves in the city whose artificial gravity and sweltering heat (hence the title) kill you after about a year of glorious servitude to your Master.
It is my favorite book of the trilogy and is still as much fun 20 years from when I first read it.Will, Beanpole, and Henry are training for the games in hopes that one of them will make it into a city of the Tripods and be able to escape to provide vital intelligence to the human resistance.The description of what happens in the Tripods city is amazing and interesting.
It is a fast-paced book with amazing detail as to the Tripod raceThis is a wonderful creative series; that still inspires curiosity of the unknown.
This was my favorite book in the series.
It gives us our first glimpse into the lives of the Masters, and what an unusual glimpse it is.
The world building for the city is one of the most interesting takes on an alien society I've seen yet, even after having seen many since.
The visuals conjured in my mind by the author's word are something I can still recall 20+ years after reading it.
I think this book is also interesting in that it reveals that the evil alien overlords aren't all completely evil.
As far as alien slave masters go.
One of my favorite, early sci-fi reads.
My favourite of the series. For me, it seemed the author was drawing a correlation between the aliens (called the Master's) and human beings. Very good character developement for a kids book. I liked that the protagonist was flawed and pointedly so - I thought that was unusual for a kids book OR for that matter an adult book.
I read this book when I was a kid back in the 70s, not realizing that it was book 2 of a trilogy.
All I could remember from my first reading was giant triangular aliens (I think I made that part up), a green domed city, and a boy escaping underwater.
This held up pretty well to a re-read.
That's probably why there's a slightly different feel in that first book, which is more of a "boy's adventure" tale, and this book, which is a straight up "covert ops resisting the alien invaders" story (always a favorite trope of mine!)
تا نیمهی اول کتاب با خودم میگفتم «وای این هم از اون مجموعههاست که رو به کند شدن میره»ـخصوصا که ترجمهی این جلد (مترجمش فرد دیگهایه) نسبت به جلد قبل چندان جالب نبود اما از نیمهی دوم کتاب ورق برگشتدوباره با اون زاویه دید جذابِ «از آینده به شکوه نابود شدهی گذشته» رو به رو شدم و جاسوسبازی سبک علمیتخیلی که هیجانش رو دوچندان میکرد.ـ
تا نیمه‌ی اول کتاب با خودم می‌گفتم «وای این هم از اون مجموعه‌هاست که رو به کند شدن میره»ـخصوصا که ترجمه‌ی این جلد (مترجمش فرد دیگه‌ایه) نسبت به جلد قبل چندان جالب نبود اما از نیمه‌ی دوم کتاب ورق برگشتدوباره با اون زاویه دید جذابِ «از آینده به شکوه نابود شده‌ی گذشته» رو به رو شدم و جاسوس‌بازی سبک علمی‌تخیلی که هیجانش رو دوچندان می‌کرد.ـ ‌
(Spoilers have another reason.)Will, trained as boxer, narrates being chosen by rebel leader Julian, with pal 'Beanpole' Jean-Paul jumper, and taciturn Fritz Eger p 16 racer.
(hide spoiler)]At the Pyramid of Beauty, Will finds girls, and his sweetheart Lady Eloise, Queen of the Tournament.
In four years, the Plan, ship from their home planet brings machines to change Earth environment for them and kill all present living things.
(Can trigger questions about museums.) Will anoints drunk Master with oil, scratches itches, hand slips on sensitive area near central eye, learns blow there can kill.
The second book of the Tripods Trilogy, The City of Gold and Lead continues the science fiction adventure that began with The White Mountains.
The biggest difference in The City of Gold and Lead is that it is much more rooted in the science fiction genre than The White Mountains was.
We learn much more about the alien Masters, their city, and their technologies in this book, although Christopher manages to inject enough plot movement to make sure that it never becomes too slow.Recommended for children and tween readers who enjoyed The White Mountains.
Get taken, spy on them, and come back alive.Will, Beanpole, and a boy named Fritz are chosen, and after several dangers, they arrive at the games.
While Beanpole is left behind, Will and Fritz are chosen, and taken inside a tripod.They wake up in a hellish city of gold and lead, where the heat is oppressive, and gravity crushes them.
They are now servants of the Masters, and Will and Fritz soon become aware the Masters of the tripods have a much darker plan than they ever thought.John Christopher set the standard for children's dystopia books with this series, and this book is no exception.
One enjoys friendship most when times are good, when the sun shines and the world is kind.
(p 164)Second book in the Tripod trilogy.
The first book was kind of vague on where we were - was it Earth or some alien Earth-like planet?
The second book clears this up.
- to a very up close and personal experience with them.Spoilers ....The tripods were just the means of transportation.
The aliens themselves were roughly pyramid shaped with tentacles.
The aliens didn't have close family or friendship bonds.
It's nice to revisit books like this and see where we've come from.
Anyway, I remember this book even more clearly than the first one, The White Mountains (review link at bottom), because the terror and fascination of the boys' captivity in the Masters' city was my first introduction to true science fiction, and I loved everything about it: the slave's way of life, the description of the deliciously alien Masters, the sense of danger as Will and Fritz must pretend to be willing slaves, one of the Capped, when in fact they were free thinking boys.
You shouldn't miss it if you love the genre.Find my review of  The White Mountains  here: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Here's why.-continues to be disempowering toward children - particularly toward boys.-increases the victim-blaming, with the author repeatedly making the characters accept blaming themselves for the violence of others.-how are the capped still violent when the caps pacify all emotion and interest?
I can't quote directly, but I recall the author suggesting that men have stronger and more independent minds and bodies than women, which 'proves' itself in a horribly ugh way.
It isn't the women who have the weaker minds and bodies, it is the sexist and insecure author and his male characters.
The second in the Tripods series, this book follows Will and Beanpole as they leave their mountain home and try to win a competition of games that will allow them to enter the mysterious city of the tripods. While inside the city, they learn about their captors the Masters and look for a way to defeat them. Very imaginative, told in the style of Jules Verne with a particular knack for describing alien science and technology. It's a great story with a focus on the action, I loved these books as a kid and I still do today.
The second in the White Mountains trilogy, this is the book where the rebel children must infiltrate the enemy complex and learn the aliens' weaknesses. Don't read this one without first having read The White Mountains, and likewise, don't read it without finishing the story off with The Pool of Fire. All three books are very important to the set. And you must read the set! This was one of the best sets of books I've ever read.
This book was even more satisfying than the first of the trilogy. I read through it very quickly. You get to find out what a tripod really is and my assumption was all wrong. This book brings out many emotions in the reader as the young teen boys go through cruel and demeaning treatment in the city of the tripods.
Like "The White Mountains" this book grabs the reader from page one and and doesn't let go until the end. Even then, it doesn't let go as you will run to the nearest library or bookstore and want to get the next book.
بهترين كتابي آخرالزمانيه كه خوندم جدا كارش عالي بود ولي إز حق نگذريم يه كپي تَر تميز از اچ جي ولز زده بود ولي خوب بعدش عناصره به داستان اضافه شد كه باعث شد از حالت كپي در بياد و به يه اثر زيبا تبديل شه حتما اگه طرفدار كتاباي آخر الزماني هستيد اينو بخونيد
I've read this book multiple times, and every time, it make me feel like my life is easy compared to the main character's, and that if he can rise up to his challenges, I should be able to rise up to my own. Very motivating. This series is worth reading.
reviewing soon at www.fantasyliterature.com
I just reread this trilogy after many years and wow it was better than ever! Apparently there is even another book… so I will have to check it out too.

The theme that I gathered from reading this book was that it doesn't hurt you to try new things because once Will and his friends go to the White Mountains they gather important information from their findings that help them out to see what Tripods really are.
I strongly reacted to this character because throughout the story Beanpole has been there for his fellow companions and has helped them figured out the mystery of what the Tripods are.
I think the author intended this reaction because by the end of the story he is included with the other people that wanted answers and he got them.
In the sequel to the White Mountains, Will and random new character Fritz compete in the Great Games to win the "honor" of serving the Tripods in their enclosed city.
In this book, we finally come face-to-face with the Masters, pyramid-shaped, three-legged, three-eyed, tentacled monstrosities who are the driving force behind the Tripod invasion.I enjoyed this book a lot more than the first installment.
The Masters are a fascinating species and I find them to be better developed and way more interesting than the human heroes, for the most part.It's also interesting that while Will is ostensibly the protagonist and POV character of the story, he's kind of the least effective of the group of boys in this story.
The second installment (or third, if you are counting the prequel) in John Christopher's late-60's "Tripods" trilogy has our erstwhile hero Will undercover in the city of the aliens.
The "city" is really a huge biosphere set up on earth, where the aliens--the Masters--have subdued the populace with nefarious intent.Christopher's spare writing style comes right out of Strunk and White--nothing wasted, everything moving the story forward.
(Contemporary writers, with infinite hard drive space and a marketplace wanting product more than editorial process, could take a hint.)Having established the conflict in Act 1 (THE WHITE MOUNTAINS), Christopher begins in Act 2 to examine Will's relationship with power and his response to it.
