https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/376817.Her_Privates_We

In Her Privates We, Bourne maintains to a superior that he turned down a commission on enlisting as he felt he did not know enough of men to command them.
John Francis Swain, who included a concise and informative biography of Manning in a 2001 doctoral thesis, reports that he was accepted for one – but was caught drunk during officer training, and was returned to his regiment as a private.
Remarque writes more about the fighting itself and how it scars the individual psyche, while Manning focuses on the bond that forms between the men who do the fighting.
The slagheaps, huge against the luminous sky, might have been watchtowers in Babylon, or pyramids in Egypt; night with its enchantments, changing even this flat and unlovely land into a place haunted by fantastic imaginings.Manning also uses some dialect to show the difference in classes between the privates and non-coms and the officers.
Because Bourne was of a different class and age, he served Manning's purpose well to show how strong were the bonds formed between and among these men.
Very historically interesting, with some powerful and moving passages, but for me the writing was fairly weak and unengaging.
Hemingway stated that this book was, "The finest and noblest book of men in war" - although I have never been too enthusiastic about Hemingway, this really is a great piece of text. There is a lot of waiting around and little action.
Started kind of slow. I put it down a few times. By the time I'd finished I liked it better than All Quiet on the Western Front.
They are not the idealized, separate world of the officer corp, but the war as it was, filled with filth and muck, anger and apathy.
It is clear to not only to the fighting men, but also the officers who both resent and respect him.
He is told repeatedly to go in for an officer's commission, something which he tries to avoid but eventually accepts as his duty.There are times when this book moves slowly.
Included among them are Lawrence of Arabia, who counted it among his favorites, and Ernest Hemingway who described it as "the finest and noblest book of war among men." I am inclined to agree with that sentiment.
I'm really glad I did as it was surprisingly moving.
There is hardly any plot to the book and very little action or actual fighting - the soldiers are mostly moving from one French village to another, enduring constant mud, filthy conditions, bad food and cold.
It probably pales in comparison to the constant worry of how long until you are killed though.
The book has some really interesting passages about the psychology of the ordinary soldier, how they made the best of the terrible conditions and how they managed to keep going without knowing when the war would end.
It is also a little hard for the regular reader to follow, since the upper NCOs are referred to by ranks such as "regimental" and "colour-sergeant" making the pecking order unclear.While this is a unique account of life in the trenches from the private soldier's point of view, I would not say that the book is equally effective as a novel.
A great example of the problem with first-person or journal point of view, which the author solves on the last page. I won't spoil it for you.
It's survivor's guilt and during the First World War they didn't recognize PTSD as an actual consequence of the fighting in the trenches.One of my favourite quotes from the novel is'They marched out of the village, past the stone cavalry at the end of it, and men who had known all the sins of the world, lifted, to the agony of the figure on the cross, eyes that had probed and understood the mystery of suffering.' p.129I really like the way Manning compares and contrasts the soldiers to Jesus.
The way Manning writes it, he compares the suffering of Jesus on the cross to that of himself and the other soldiers.
Frederic Manning's semi-fictional - the place and event are fact; the characters, fiction - account of British soldiers moving from one front to another during the early stages of World War I confirms this observation.
The fact that he chose to tell of what he saw through fictional characters is interesting, and I wonder if he decided to do so through a sense of propriety; so many men died in World War I, and Manning may have decided to respect their true names and actions while honoring them by proxy.
This was another of the books I was led to by reading the biography of Lawrence of Arabia.
It was not a long book (250 pages or so), but it was tightly packed with introspective thoughts about what it was to be a soldier in WW1.
And unlike many memoirs of the 1st War, it focused on the ordinary soldiers (the "privates" of the pun-intended title).
The book was surprisingly sympathetic to officers as well.
It is his thoughts and reactions to events that set him even more apart and make the book such a great read.
The final quarter picks up, and some of the investment Manning makes in Bourne and his cronies, and setting up the impending show and the issue of the commission, pays off in this section, and my view of this book improved considerably having read the last section.In many ways, I think this is the British "All Quiet on the Western Front" in that it doesn’t go straight for the foom-whoosh-bang, but displays the boredom and confusion of life behind the lines, where the vast majority of soldiers’ time was spent.
A leaf or two might flutter down, and scratch against the bark of trunk or boughs with a crackling papery rustle.” Her Privates We is a highly detailed account of a british soldier during the First World War scenario.
Based entirely in a scenario where the soldier, along with fellow patriots, is on the warfront, this book has been highly lauded by accomplished authors such as Ernest Hemingway, who has not only been famous for his literary achievements, but has also been a part of the war, and therefore, has a fairly wide perspective to judge this book.
It's mostly about Bourne, a mysterious soldier who has to constantly dodge promotion, who we understand probably comes from a background of some standing but would rather remain a nameless soldier.
It's about a life in the trenches that was mostly mundane between flashes of sheer terror, and about the ridiculousness of bureaucracy and the humour retained despite it.
You'll get more out of the humour if you speak the rudimentary French that Bourne does, as the interactions with French locals are frequently very silly.
The bulk of this book is soldier's milling around outside the frontlines, doing endless parades, trying to get out of grunt work, complaining about officers, and spending vingt frong on some vin for a nice evening.
You get to know Bourne and his buddies and get a bit of a feel for the army.
It's almost enough to make you forget the book opens with a roll call where everyone is speaking up to confirm who died and how.
Sure, people died, but mostly background characters and mostly off screen.
You know it's coming but it doesn't make it any easier.
This book tells the story.
Quite definitely this is the classic British Infantryman’s story of the Western Front.
Written from the ordinary soldier’s perspective and not that of the majority of books about the war which were written by literary young officers, this book has the feel of war as experienced by the artisans.
There is much that appears hum-drum broken up by short sharp periods of heightened anxiety and action and was experienced by all who went through the trenches.
A superb book that makes one think hard On what men went through when reading about the battles and actions on the Western Front.

War has always been like this  This is what war has been since the dawn of time. Men will form bonds, knowing that they should not.  New men arrive to take the place of those lost, and are forever "the new guys". This is not right or fair but, that's the wayIt is.  This book takes you back to the bloody days of World War 1. It's a good read.
Gripping and personal Read once, im going to immediately start over for a second go. Could have been set in Vietnam as easily as France. Real, close, and vital.
Good discussion of what the men faced in WWI, told from the perspective of one soldier.
A powerful, moving book that brought the war on the Western Front to life.
The final quarter picks up, and some of the investment Manning makes in Bourne and his cronies, and setting up the impending show and the issue of the commission, pays off in this section, and my view of this book improved considerably having read the last section.In many ways, I think this is the British "All Quiet on the Western Front" in that it doesn’t go straight for the foom-whoosh-bang, but displays the boredom and confusion of life behind the lines, where the vast majority of soldiers’ time was spent.
It is a extraordinary account of the lives of foot soldiers that is told with the elegance and emotionally-evocative brilliance that only the best authors can achieve.Manning first published this book under the title, The Middle Part of Fortune.
Like his protagonist, Manning fought in the Battle of the Somme and experienced life in the trenches.Since embarking on the 1001 challenge, I’ve read lots of war books (or books prominently featuring WWI & II) including: The Things they Carried, All Quiet on the Western Front, Storm of Steel, Birdsong, & Atonement.
"Death, of course, like chastity, admits no degree; a man is dead or not dead, and a man is just as dead by one means as by another; but it is infinitely more horrible and revolting to see a man shattered and eviscerated, than to see him shot."Her Privates We is based on the author's experiences fighting in WWI.
It's a devastating read.Related Reads:All Quiet on the Western Front (Remarque)The Mint (T.E. Lawrence)The Things They Carried (O'Brien)
Sommen rintamalle kesällä 1916 sijoittuva Manningin romaani ei kaunistele sotaa vaan esittelee sen kaikessa raakuudessaan, toisaalta pitkäveteisyydessään ja sattumanvaraisuudessaan.Kuvaus keskittyy suurelta osin linjojen taakse, lopun varsinaista juoksuhautasotaa lukuun ottamatta. Sotamiehille "onnetar on lutka", elämä arpapeliä ja esimiehet ja kotirintama kaukana juoksuhaudoista.Manning ei noussut allekirjoittaneelle ehkä samanlaiseksi ikoniseksi kirjaksi kuin Remarquen teos saksalaisnäkökulmasta. Neljä tähteä tulee kirjan rehellisyydestä, lukuelämyksenä kuvaus oli ajoittain puuduttavaa ja henkilö- ja käskyvaltasuhteet eivät hahmottuneet.Toisaalta näin varmasti oli tosielämässäkin rintamalla: aseveljet olivat joskus vain ohikiitäviä tuttavuuksia juoksuhautasodassa, kohtalon poimiessa porukkaa teräsmyrskyn keskellä. Yhteenkuuluvuutta loivat harvat inhimilliset hetket viski- tai viinipullon parissa linjojen takana tai korsuissa.
This novel is one of those hidden gems that you trip across when browsing a stores book shelves or, in my case, having looked on the exciting Serpents Tail Book Publishers website, and instantly know, after seeing the intriguing cover and read the blurb, that this is simply one of those books you must possess.It is a remarkable book and in many ways.
For a start it is a story written at the time of the First World War but unlike so many published contemporaneously pulls no punches.
Unlike his fellows he is not working class.
What an awkward title, although it makes sense as a quote from Shakespeare.
Last Saturday was ANZAC Day in New Zealand and I was reading this, watched an excellent Sam Neill documentary about the meaning of ANZAC Day (it commemorates the 25th April 1915, the day the Allies landed on the Gallipoli Peninsula.
However, this book caused a bit of a stir when it was written, because it told the story of the ordinary soldier rather than that of an officer.
Although it is written in the third person, it feels like an autobiography, where the emphasis is on the other people with whom he interacts.Manning explains the role of the soldier in thought-provoking prose.
Beyond the apparent relationship with the main character, this book may have also appealed to Lawrence for its practical exposure of the atrocities of war.
As someone who was eventually elevated to mythical status as “Lawrence of Arabia”, he may have appreciated the unabashed descriptions this book provides for the difficult life of the solider and the horrible consequences of war.
The book delves deeply into the loss of individuality that comes from devoting oneself fully to being a warrior for an inscrutable national power.
