https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/567857.The_New_Negro
This was a comprehensive collection of writing from early 20th century authors of African descent that created work that wealthy white American patrons were willing to economically support (i.e. Albert C.
During this time in the U.S., Africana culture was in vogue and became both a commodity and a source of public acknowledgement that people of African descent were active producers of culture, literature and visual art.Both the writing and visual images presented in this anthology were carefully chosen by Philadelphian native Dr. Alain Locke.
This is the Bible of the Harlem Renaissance. It is another classic,must have book. Edited by the first black Rhodes Scholar, Dr. Alain Locke, this anthology includes the work of many of the Harlem Renaissance writers: Langston Hughes, Countee Cullen, Jean Toomer, Claude McKay, and others. Every time I read it, it brings back memories of graduate school days at Atlanta University where I bought and read my first copy thanks to Dr. Richard Long.
A phenomenal collection, including a balls-up selection of poetry from all the important voices of the Harlem Renaissance and some terrific essays. Well chosen and well commented on, this is the work that defined the Harlem Renaissance and it's indispensable. Not a false note in it.
A discussion of the writings of Harlem during this period, by someone who apparently never lived there, that excludes the mass movement of working class blacks led by Marcus Garvey is very odd.
Nevertheless it's a sad and important omission.Perhaps this anthology serves to underline the gulf that clearly existed at the time between the lives of the Harlem literati and that of everyday 'black folks'.
A celebration of a period of art and literature consumed most significantly at the time by Whites but largely inaccessible to those it strove to portray while the 'portrayed' merely survived the best they could.
This is not the best collection of writings from the Harlem Renaissance, but I love it as a historical document. It is the collection that was published at the time, and as such it is extremely interesting and engaging.
The great social gain in this is the releasing of our talented group from the arid fields of controversy and debate to the productive fields of creative expression." Locke argues for a movement away from artistic expression as merely a way to engage with the "Negro problem" or to try to represent the race as a whole; instead, he argues for an approach to art that focuses on individual self-expression.

Nineteen-nineties' reprint of the Harlem Renaissance's classic manifesto. The wealth of material is nothing short of stunning, and the list of contributors is the who's who of the movement. (by the way there is a Who's Who at the end of the volume)Poetry, short stories, essays, theatre, music, fantastic illustrations & decoration; & all of it is excellent. 85 years on, this book still rules. Besides, its historical significance cannot be underestimated: it heralded, maybe for the first time (albeit The Souls of Black Folks), the American century as the African-American century.
Read: The New Negro by Alain Locke The Negro in American Literature by William Stanley BraithwaiteThe City of Refuge by Rudolph Fisher (*****) Vestiges by Rudolph FisherSpunk by Zora Neale HurstonSahdji by Bruce Nugent All of the poetry (*****) The 'music' section Compromise by Willis Richardson (*****)The Paradox of Color by Walter White Read for English 3370: American Modernism through Contemporary Literature in Spring 2013
This anthology, including Zora Neale Hurston's "Spunk" and many poems by Langston Hughes, Countee Cullen, Jean Toomer, and Claude McKay, is such a brilliant, important collection in the context of American literary history. Collected by a man who did not live in Harlem nor was a creative writer himself, this work still acts as the all-important "Bible" of the Harlem Renaissance.
Picked up this volume used because I want to use the title essay for my AP Lit class when we read about the Harlem Renaissance and Zora Neale Hurston. There are many great essays in here about the promise and deliverance of African American artists and intellectuals.
Wonderful survey of brilliant writers of the early Harlem Renaissance. Great way to learn of the consciousness of the black thinkers who came before us and who lived during a time closer to the Emancipation but during the era of the Black Codes and Great Migration northward.
A huge assortment of fiction, poetry, and drama, but primarily essays all about the nascence of Negro art, the place of the Negro in American culture, jazz and Black music, etc. Very heterogeneous in terms of both content and quality.
Harlem Renaissance unfolded.
Fairly useful anthology, very interesting historical artifact
