https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/104093.Sacred_and_Profane
So, after liking the first 2 of these I read (the first I read was one farther along in the series) I've continued to follow our hero(es) through "life".And they have an eventful life.The detective is in love with our heroine.
Their private life integrates and it's simply part of the story as a whole.
The plot flows, the characters are complete and while I'm not usually into books where the detective's private life is a factor, these I like.I can recommend this one also.
One thing that bugs me is that sometimes Ms. Kellerman takes an odd shortcut with the plot (e.g. a mysterious criminal holds important clues; nobody knows much about him except his first name (say, Marmarisco); you'd think that tracking him would be hard - but then Chapter x just begins with something like "Decker was meeting Marmarisco.
The first time I came across this kind of shortcut in  Ritual Bath  I thought I had actually missed a chapter.
The good news, though, is that it only happened once in this book, as opposed to about 3 times in the previous one.As for the relationship between Peter and Rina, it was interesting.
Sacred and Profane is the second book of the Peter Decker and Rina Lazarus series and ends a few months after book 1 left off.
Decker is coming to grips with his place as a Jew in an attempt to cement a relationship with Rina.
The mystery components of this book read quickly, leaving me wanting to know who was behind the ghastly murder.
What kept me reading quickly, however, is to see how Peter and Rina's relationship progresses.
As the book comes to an end, Peter and Rina are at a critical stage in their relationship (I will not say more).
I can’t fake my belief.
I can’t fake my belief.
The burden of proof is always on the one who makes an assertion.
Peter Drecker (the protagonist) is open to believing in the absurd for reasons beyond true predicates about the real world (they seem to be tied up with his ‘love’ for Rina).
Using the premises in this story somebody could make the really stupid statement ‘I don’t have enough faith to be an atheist’.
Never realizing that burden of proof lies with the one making the assertion.
The belief in mystical wisdom is irritating.
4 stars🇺🇸
In any case, for most genre novels my ratings have more to do with entertainment value first, plot consistency second, literary value third.For religious people, the drama around sex and conversion and evil is probably resonating, even if completely mental (I find the religious arguments on why child abuse and torture is common and snuff films are permitted by any gods particularly compelling and ridiculous, especially the Rabbi's answers,; 1.
I also find it hard to forgive, since Rina Lazarus is depicted more as Charedi than mild Modern Orthodox, the many times the lead characters hold hands, hug, kiss, sit in each other's laps, etc'.
It's not that it doesn't happen, of course, but Rina doesn't even make noises about it being forbidden - which it is, as it violates negiah.Perhaps I am more bemused and bored - as well as occasionally downright annoyed - by these asides because I am an Orthodox Jew myself.
I just know it detracted from the story in my eyes.On the opposite hand, so to speak, I must compliment her at least on some of the criminology research she's obviously done.
Definitely one of my favorite novels in a set of very ,very, good procedural mysteries with Peter Decker and Rinna Lazarus as main characters.
Peter Decker is a hard boiled cop/detective with a heart of gold who is seriously involved with a much younger devoutly religious woman named Rinna.
I recommend this book highly to those who wish to know more about the Jewish religious culture,and those who like procedural detective/cop type novels.
Still all in all, this is a novel well worth your time and despite any possible issue you might have with a subject matter.
The continuing romance of LAPD Sergeant Peter Decker and the ultra orthodox Jewess Rina Lazarus.
Born to Jewish parent who gave him up for adoption, Decker was raised by Baptist adoptive parents.
It seems that although his adoptive parents were devout Decker has no Sunday School training nor Christian understanding.
However, it's pretty hard to imagine a person raised by devout Baptists that shows little or no understanding/appreciation of the Christian faith.
I secretly suspect that it is our author that has little understanding of the Christian faith.That disappointment aside, this volume has a better balance between the growing Decker/Lazarus relationship and the murder case.

I really had trouble getting into this one, perhaps because I didn't read the first one in the series.
(This book was orphaned at my house after a visit by a family member ;) All of the dialogue felt very forced and fake, and the religious elements of the plot felt very forced.
I know the author is very Orthodox and is perhaps trying to expose readers to her religion, but you really need reference book or a dictionary to know what some of the characters are talking about in some scenes.
I don't think I'll be checking out the rest of this series any time soon...
I am on a rereading marathon. It is interesting to go back and see the differences time makes to books. I am enjoying the series all over again. I find the religious sections very interesting, the mysteries and daily life of the cops fascinating and the relationship between Peter and Rina wonderful. As a Jew who also married a convert (wanted my children to have no doubts) the books have a secondary interest for me.
Peter is on a getting to know you camping trip with Rinna's boys when 1 boy finds 2 skeletons in the woods. Peter is given the case to solve. Menwhile he and Rinna are working through some bumps in the road regarding his conversion to be Jewish.
Although dated, still a great series. I have book 3 and will begin it shortly.
Merkt man so wirklich eigentlich nur daran, dass Decker kein Mobiltelefon hat.
Das war mir wirklich zu viel des Guten, ist glaube ich nur für Leser interessieren die sich für den jüdischen Glauben sehr interessieren.Ich habe auch schon den 1.
Teil dieser Reihe gelesen, und auch schon den 3.
Und da ich weiß dass es noch viele weitere Peter Decker / Rina Lazarus - Bücher gibt, überrascht es mich nicht wenn es mit den beiden doch noch weitergeht.
Werde die Reihe auch erstmal weiterlesen, in der Hoffnung dass das religiöse Geschwafel deutlich zurück geht.
Kann mich nicht erinnern, dass das im 3.
The second novel of the excellent Peter Decker/ Rina Lazarus series -- which I am re-reading after a long number of years-- is a very worthy follow up to The Ritual Bath.
While an excellent police procedural, the author makes the key characters human with their developing love relationship and the religious and family conflicts to be resolved, all set against the murder mystery background that takes Decker into a very seamy part of the Hollywood scene.
Simply put, the police procedural part of the novel could stand alone, but the author, by combining the human aspects of the characters, has continued to lay a strong foundation for the series.
I highly recommend the series for mystery fans.
It's interesting to read books written and set before 9/11 to see all the changes in what we now consider norms.Pay phones and pagersWalking right up to airport gatesResearch by looking through boxes of documentsThere are more Jewish words and customs than I am comfortable with, but that's just a lack of knowledge on my part. Good to step out of my Christian upbringing more often.
Delighted to get book 2 in the Pete and Rina series. In the first two pages, the burned skeleton of two girls is discovered by Sammy, Rina's younger son. The investigation takes Peter into a terrible world involving the victimization of children.The ongoing struggle of the romance between Rina and Peter is challenging. Peter is bucking against a celibate life and frustrated with his struggles to study Judaism tries to immerse himself in work. Deeply religious, Rina is trying to regain her balance after her experiences in book 1 and watching her relationship with Peter develop.
I've read a couple of Peter Decker books in the past and enjoyed them.
(And there were so many words that I wish the meaning had been at least alluded to.)I actually did enjoy the good and bad explanations by the Rabbi.
Recently it was said in church, we should should thank God for the bad as well as the good.
I have had some a lot of uniquely bad things occur to me during my life, I now see it was all a chain that led me to who I am today and happiness in my life today.
or wanted to have.The plot of the deaths followed a path into a part of one's soul that made you search for the good in human being, as Peter saw the worst through the investigation.I like the mystery, and the love story/conversion was just at the right percentage of the book.
It never got too religious, but took more of a moral turn on giving up so much of one's self for another.I would recommend this book to all mystery lovers.
I am enjoying the relationship between Rina and Peter and the crimes that Peter solves.
As I write those sentences, it makes this book sound like a religious treatise or a book about Jews or a book about someone seeking God. This is a murder mystery.
The murder is the main part of the book and its solving is the major plot.
The romance between Peter Decker and Rina Lazarus is secondary but makes the book interesting especially for those of us who read primarily romance like me.
I like this book and this series so far.
This is the first Faye Kellerman book I've read, and I'm pleasantly surprised.
The plot was compelling enough and the characters likable.
Made more palatable to the reading public, no doubt, by the fact that the faith in question is orthodox Judaism, and so enough outside the majority Christian religion to be comfortable in our pluralistic proselitism-phobic society, it was also refreshing and enjoyable to read of the police detective's struggle to maintain connection to his religious quest while navigating the sordid underworld of L.A. porn and snuff-porn films.
This is the second book in the Peter Decker and Rina Lazarus series.
In this one, there is less interaction between Peter and Rina.
Peter is attempting to convert to Orthodox Judaism so that he can be with Rina, but has trouble reconciling religious belief with the dark world he sees everyday at work.
The mystery is very dark and graphic, and I was extremely disturbed by it.
I didn't like this book quite as much as the first, The Ritual Bath, but it was still a pretty good read and I look forward to the rest.
One of the early Decker/Lazarus novels, before they are married. The title is apt, as Decker alternates between two universes. On the one hand, he is studying the Jewish religion, a pre-condition of his hoped for marriage to Rina. On the other hand, he has descended into the depths of violent pornography and disgusting criminals. A solid detective story and significant character development indicative of what is to come in this excellent series. Decker's ambivalence toward Judaism, and indeed toward any religion, is a powerful sub-plot that adds Kellerman's "more than just a detective story" trademark.
Just like the first book, this one was good but not as good as the first one. I'm not big on the Jewish thin but I really the mystery part of the book. I feel like the whole Jewish component gets in the way of the actual case.
I love Peter Decker novels.
Loved this one! Can't wait for #3.
Sometimes, not everything may be solved (Decker Lazarus 2)It is 1977(cf. page 132), christmas, and four months have passed since the end of the first book, “The Ritual Bath“. LAPD detective Pete Decker is still seeing his love-interest, orthodox Jew Rina Lazarus, and so he goes camping with the young widow’s two sons, Sammy and Jake. When 8  year-old Sammy strolls off on his own, he stumbles upon two burnt corpses – and thus, Decker into his next case. Forensic odontology will help to identify o
This is the second book in Faye Kellerman’s series around Decker and Lazarus and although the books might in general be read separately and on their own, this one starts off with an information that I consider a spoiler on Pete, as the first book would only reveal it at a later stage.As in “The Ritual Bath“, Pete will have his colleagues Marge Dunn and Mike Hollander by his side and have to delve deep into the less affluent areas of his hometown Los Angeles.
Los Angeles Police Detective Peter Decker had grown very close to Rina's young sons, Sammy and Jake, as he had to their mother, and he looked forward to spending a day of his vacation camping with the boys.
A nice reprieve from the grueling work of a homicide cop-until Sammy stumbles upon a gruesome sight...Two human skeletons, charred beyond recognition, are identified by a forensic dentist as teenage girls--and for Decker, the father of a sixteen-year-old daughter, vacation time is over.
My review:This is the second book in the Peter Decker/ Rina Lazarus series.
After all there are 24 books in the series.
I enjoyed the book, particularly reading about Pete's struggle with faith in general and Judaism in particular.
I was curious about why the author didn't use the military alphabet (alpha-bravo-charlie, etc.).
Because this book briefly brought up Pete's military experience, that seemed off.
I've never served, but I do know that most former military personal would use it over the phone to ensure clarity.
(I'm not squeamish at all, but some of it seemed gratuitous.) Still a 4 star as I wanted to keep reading and thought most of the book was well-developed.
