https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1297177.Motivation_and_Personality
I am once again amazed I missed this book the first time I was introduced to Maslow oh so long ago.
I highly recommend this book to anyone seeking answers to "Why do people do that?".Here's a sampling:The exclusive study of our failures and breakdowns will hardly breed inspiration, hopefulness, and optimistic ambitions in either the layman or the scientist.It is dangerous to see in the world what we have put into it rather than what is actually there.And my absolute favorite:Even if all these needs (physiological, safety, belongingness and love, esteem) are satisfied, we may still often (if not always) expect that a new discontent and restlessness will soon develop, unless the individual is doing what he is fitted for.
This need we may call self-actualization (man's desire for self-fulfillment).
But I was very interested in the chapter titled, “Self-Actualizing People: A Study of Psychological Health.”In the first chapter, “A ‘Psychological’ Approach to Science,” Maslow argues that scientists have human motivations for what they do, and their truth isn’t necessarily more valid than anyone else’s.
They have transcendent/religious experiences, in which there is loss of self, including during sexual climax.They feel “gemeinschaftsgefühl,” a genuine desire to help the human race.
But going back to what Maslow wrote in the first chapter, I think he is really combining natural and social science with the humanities, especially philosophy, to come up with a theory of what a fully developed person acts like.
One of my all-time favorite books. Maslow basically explains in detail the characteristics of an emotionally healthy person. A good benchmark and inspiring.
Thehonors, the status, therewards, the popularity,the prestige, and the lovethey can bestow musthave become less importantthan self-development andinner growth.”~ Abraham Maslow“Self-actualizing individuals have a genuine desire to help the human race.”~ Abraham Maslow=========================1.
Solitude: Self-actualizing individuals “positively like solitude and privacy to a definitely greater degree than the average person.”6.
Human Kinship: “Self-actualizing people have a deep feeling of identification, sympathy, and affection for human beings in general.
They feel kinship and connection, as if all people were members of a single family.” … “Self-actualizing individuals have a genuine desire to help the human race.”10.
Interpersonal Relationships: “Self-actualizing people have these especially deep ties with rather few individuals.
Brilliant book! If Maslow's hierarchy of needs sympathized you, then I'm quite sure this book has many ideas and new perspectives to give. A must read for the ones interested in psychology and motivation in my opinion.
I mean the tools of today would disprove loads of the stuff.Instead, his deal is....
Self, if I don't have the tool, let's go and build it, create it, figure it out, because just because the tool isn't available now, does not mean stuff's unknowable or that my conclusion's right on the small sliver that I barely proved via my biases of excluding everything that didn't fit.
First world western peeps be like democratize (which requires a whole lot of self-actualization) and China be like...
China 1980 ain't like first world peeps where some people be holdin out...
The honors, the status, the rewards, the popularity, the prestige, and the love they can bestow must have become less important than self-development and inner growth.”~ Abraham Maslow from Motivation and PersonalityAbraham Maslow.
A 20th century humanistic psychologist to whom we owe thanks for the advent of the modern trend in Positive Psychology, Maslow coined the phrase “the self-actualizing individual” and developed his framework of a “hierarchy of needs” we ascend as we evolve in our hero’s journeys.
I love the guy.
There is, in Maslow’s language, a NEED you have to self-actualize—to live at your highest potential and to express your latent potentialities.
The Self-Actualizer - Become what thou art!2.
I found this incredibly meaningful, and optimistic about humanity and human potential. Also practical in a certain sense, in the way expansive and abstract issues can be managed in the context of mundane, quotidian life.
Maslow was such a full human being and in this book he reveals a great deal about how to experience life fully. A beautiful man and a beautiful book.
When these two basic needs were not met, Maslow believes it leads to many pathological and neurotic symptoms seen in adults, symptoms that can only be cured through professional psychotherapy.
On the principle that the best defense is a good attack, these people are apt to lash out".On the other hand, when these basic needs are met at an early age, higher needs become equally important to healthy adults (such as self esteem and self actualization), and these adults may actually have a higher capacity to forgo these basic needs in return for the strive towards higher needs.More controversially, Maslow also mentions that certain drives (sex drive, maternal instinct) have long been gone, and what we consider a 'drive' simply stems from "hereditary reflexes, autogenous learning, and cultural learning in the motivated behavior and in the choice of goal objects".In relation to healthy mental states, Maslow describes both clinical and societal definitions.
This is an awesome book. I have just read a few pages but every page I read it made perfect sense. I don't have time now to read it but definitely will come back to read every single page. I feel like this is one of a kind book where pretty much it explains so much about its subject and other books are just its expanded versions.
Awesome book. Especially liked the chapters about self actualization and love
Общепринятое обывательское представление о пирамиде ценностей имеет мало общего с настоящими идеями автора.
Incredible book!
Книжка немного устарела в свете открытия режимов когнитивного функционирования и режимов характера человека. Предстваляет интерес с исторической точки зрения, также как например труды Фрейда или Киркегора.
I was very motivated to read this in college!
it talks about different theories of motivation.self actualization peoplehow environment affects motivationhe talks about himself and how he was different from other kids
Before you can loveYou need to eat, sleep, breatheFirst things first, my friend
Quick summary in relation to health in general.Maslow asserts that we have a fundamental need to 'self-actualise'.
Replaced by the ambitions of the societal machine - where success measured by economic and technological progress of the machine, rather than fulfilment of individuals deepest needs, happiness and expression.Our society can be considered "sick", in that it is set up to neglect and suppress rather than satisfy fundamental needs.
If we are to return to a healthy state, our cultural values and priorities must be considerably improved."(I) since a man is to be called sick who is basically thwarted, and (2) since such basic thwarting is made possible ultimately only by forces outside the individual, then (3) sickness in the individual must come ultimately from a sickness in the society.
А дело в том, что Абрахам Маслоу, когда писал свою революционную книгу «Мотивация и личность» видимо не ставил себе цель классифицировать потребности человека в том виде, который нам известен из всё той же «пирамиды Маслоу».Не книга а просто находка, прорывная и действительно революционная работа.
И собственно данная работа на фоне более устаревшей психологии заметно отличается совсем другим ракурсом, другими критериями, высокими стандартами и системностью.Эта книга к которой, я уверен, что буду возвращаться ещё не один десяток раз на протяжении жизни!И всем её очень рекомендую, поскольку рассчитана она на широкий круг читателей, а не только на узкий круг любителей психологии.
Theory that is relatively easy to understand.
Everyone understands "basic needs" right?
As I recall, I read this in conjunction w/Karen Horney's Neeurosis and Human Growth, the two somewhat complement each other, and as I recall, Horney goes more so, into the kind of things that happen, say in Measure for Measure...Duke Vincentio...who has presumably settled his "basic needs" as Maslow lays them out----this is sketchy, memory, and all...been a few years...but by basic, I recall really basic, tribally basic, shelter, food, etc etc....meh...like I said, my take is that it is easy to understand the subject matter as Maslow lays it out...and I swing a hammer for a living...moi.toodles for now, gove.
Standard "I read this, but damned if I can remember exactly when or why or enough about it to make detail comments" disclaimer: My rating is based solely on my memory of how much or little I enjoyed the book at that time.
In some cases, "at that time" might mean before most Goodreads users were born.
Then again, it could mean a couple years ago and that I have a lousy memory.
Heck, given how all our tastes change over the years and the fickle nature of memory, my own mileage might vary if I re-read it today.
While it reads like an academic treatise, it's a fascinating look at human motivation. This is Maslow's expression of his eponymously named Hierarchy of Needs; which has become more well known than the man himself. Though it has it's share of criticism, it is still a useful (if simple) model of human needs.Worth a read for anyone interested is psychology and human motivation.
Rated: C+This book is one of his classics. Not a primer for beginners but an advanced work for his colleagues. Good to ready directly about his understanding of the hierarchy of needs and self-actualization. This work was published in the 1950’s and it is amazing to look back and see just how far psychology had come by then as well as how far it has progressed since then.
Big part of Psych 101Human potential movement. Personal and trans-personal psychology.Hierarchy of needs - physical, psychological, self-actualizationSelf-actualization people have reached highest level; only a few at this level but more via evolution Motivation in workplace and of employee. Too optimistic? Misses evil.
required reading for all psych students and nursing /medical students. Insight into humnaistic view points and one's motivation on the road to self actualization. Short book, concise and in a sense a guide book.
chapters I read:4) A Theory of Human Motivation5) The Role of Basic Need Gratification in Psychological Theory9) Is Destructiveness Instinctoid?10) The Expressive Component of Behavior11) Self-Actualizing People: A Study of Psychological Health12) Love in Self-Actualizing People
I want all theMotivation and Personality book to read and place of publication
I've always enjoyed reading Maslow, for his focus on people at their best
amazing and short book to understand more about your needs and others behaviors
