https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/613792.The_Zimmermann_Telegram
There is something very strange about the First World War. I mean, surely there must be something I previously knew about it that must be true.The $64,000 question is: what event brought the United States into the First World War…..Before reading this book I would have said that it was the sinking of the Lusitania that brought the US into the war – but in fact, that happened two years prior to the US entry.
And best/worst of all, you understand why the world made the huge mistake that was World War I.Tuchman isn't just an efficient writer, she's deeply entertaining.
Tuchman isn't an unbiased reporter, she instead seems to embrace the concept of "history will judge them" and goes right ahead and judges the men that she's writing about.
You can practically "hear" her shaking her head over Woodrow Wilson and his unending attempts to bring a peace to the world that no one but him wanted.I've been meaning to read Tuchman's "The Guns Of August" ever since it was discussed in one of my favorite historical films: "Thirteen Days." I started with this book instead and it has revolutionized my understanding of World War I.
Really, most of the book is about the geopolitics of the early 20th century and the personalities of leading American, British, and German officials, diplomats, and military leaders, and how these shaped history as we know it.The "plot" in a nutshell (and Barbara Tuchman does make this book interesting enough that it reads more like a novel plot moving from one twist to another, rather than the inevitable course of history): in 1917, Britain and the other Allied powers are getting the stuffing beaten out of them by Germany.
As it was sent from Washington to Mexico Complete decryption and translation4* A Distant Mirror: The Calamitous 14th Century 3* The Proud Tower: A Portrait of the World Before the War 1890-1914 CR The Zimmermann Telegram

I thought that lots of information--stuff I didn't know, would translate into an interesting read. While I learned a lot, the flow was never compelling to me like other good books that "bring you there". I was never engaged. Typically, a narrator can bring the story to life, but this reader did not do that for me. I think both the author and the narrator failed me on this one. Interesting topic but this version was just OK for me.
Tuchman, one of my favorite historian/authors, tells the story of the happenstance that got the United States into World War I--despite President Wilson's firm stance of neutrality.
The British, having cracked the German code, had intercepted a telegram filled with the promise of an alliance between Mexico and Japan against America.
To that extent the Zimmermann telegram altered the course of history.
But then, as Sir Winston Churchill has remarked, the course of history is always being altered by something or other--if not by a horseshoe nail, then by an intercepted telegram.
In itself the Zimmermann telegram was only a pebble on the long road of history.
Unfortunately for the Germans, a telegram by Foreign Secretary Arthur Zimmerman detailing this nefarious plot was intercepted by the British, turned over to the Americans, and ultimately proved to be the final straw that pushed the U.S. into the war on the Allied side.Whoops.Wilson & PacifismAlong with the details of the Germans’ bizarre plan, this book spends a lot of time discussing American reluctance to get involved in what was perceived to be a European conflict.
The Germans had no illusions of Mexico actually defeating the United States, but in 1917 the Mexican-American war was not that far distant, and they thought that Mexico would jump at the chance to recover their old territory.
This book makes the case that the closest thing to a "Pearl Harbor Event" for WWI was a deciphered secret message from German Foreign Minister Arthur Zimmermann to the German Minister to Mexico, von Eckhardt, offering United States territory to Mexico in return for joining the German cause.
The Germans knew this and figured that a war with Mexico would keep the United States out of the European war.This book tells the story of how the German communication codes were deciphered and how news about the Zimmermann telegram was released in such a way that the Germans wouldn't know that their codes had been broken.
A masterpiece, one of the most entertaining, unbelievable, and beautifully written historic narratives I have ever read.
To this end Germany engaged in sabotage and notable attempts in funding Mexico and / or the Revolutionaries to hairy the United States border.
Wilson had been betraying international neutrality by being friendly to Germany and letting her use our telegraph cable to send messages to their ambassador and onto further destinations ie Mexico.
Britain provided us an original document of the Zimmerman message as sent to the German ambassador in the US.
We in turn, located the ambassador's reworded message as forwarded on to Mexico.
This was the one presented to the world.
This was never presented in high school history class.
Here is the Wikipedia entry about the Zimmermann Telegram, which was a diplomatic message from Germany to Germany's Ambassador in Mexico during World War I (January, 1917): "We intend to begin on the first of February unrestricted submarine warfare.
Please call the President's attention to the fact that the ruthless employment of our submarines now offers the prospect of compelling England in a few months to make peace." Signed, ZIMMERMANNThe result of the interception and decoding of that telegram was the entry of the United States into World War I.A compelling short book!
She begins, "The first message of the morning watch plopped out of the pneumatic tube into the wire basket with no more premonitory rattle than usual." Immediately we are drawn into British efforts to decipher a telegram sent in early 1917by the German foreign minister to the president of Mexico, proposing that the two countries "make war together on the understanding "that Mexico is to reconquer the lost territory in Texas, New Mexico, and Arizona." The British had to convince Americans that the telegram was genuine.
By April 1917 American newspapers feverishly recognized cited this as a threat of hostile action.
I liked that the book is not only centered on what was happening in America but also in Mexico, England and Germany, it widens even more the information.
I also enjoyed recognizing names of important historic characters because it is like transporting myself to that time, it is not an invented novel based on the telegram, it is a book that describes all the things that actually happened.
So if you're fond of history or simply want to know deeply what happened around the Zimmermann Telegram, this book is highly recommended!The ending tho...
In itself the Zimmermann telegram was only a pebble on the long road of history.
Tuchman, The Zimmermann Telegram, fjallar um samnefnt símskeyti sem talið er vera ein meginorsök þess að Bandaríkjamenn ákváðu að taka þátt í fyrri heimsstyrjöldinni árið 1917.Símskeytið var sent dulkóðað frá Zimmermann utanríkisráðherra Þjóðverja til þýska sendiherrans Mexíkó og innihélt tilboð Þjóðverja um hernaðarbandalag gegn Bandaríkjamönnum.
Þjóðverjar höfðu ákveðið að hefja ótakmarkaðann kafbátahernað sem þeir töldu réttilega að myndi draga BNA í stríðið gegn sér.
Ef BNA væri hins vegar í ófriði við nágranna sína þá fengju þeir nægan tíma til að sigra Bandamenn á Vesturvígstöðvunum.
British ciphering skills, German craziness, the idea of Mexico invading the US to keep the Americans from entering WWI----truth really is stranger than fiction---what's not to like.
More once I've finished it.Finished the book, appropriately enough on Memorial Day. This is a short book, only 200 pages, but is packed with research and the writer paints an amazing picture of Woodrow Wilson, whose pacifism bordered on the insane (to me anyway).
I had never heard of this successful effort by the Germans to make complete tools of the Mexican government--the idea being that if the US was busy fighting off the Mexicans, they wouldn't be able to enter WWI.
In January 1917, British intelligence intercepted a top-secret telegram from Germany to Mexico that the British felt would jar the United States from its neutrality and bring it into World War I on the side of the Allies.
The communication was a proposal made by Foreign Secretary Arthur Zimmermann that Germany and Mexico should sign a military alliance.
If that happened, Germany wanted Mexico to attack the United States as a result of its treaty commitment and tie up significant numbers of U.S. troops.
A fascinating study of a pivotal moment in the history of World War I.
The telegram of the title was one of many intercepted by Naval Intelligence in London and passed to Washington - the Americans were also intercepting messages I think.
Either way it signaled close ties between the intelligence agencies of Britain and the USA and the development of those capabilities.Anyway, the story unfolds into this amazing but clever concept - except that Mexico was sensible enough to decide against the plan, despite their desire to hit back at the USA after losing Texas, New Mexico and Arizona to the USA in the mid 19th century (visit the Alamo in San Antonio, Texas, for more details!)This book lays out the history of this event in exciting and fascinating detail.
It is very readable and an amazing insight into the early years of Anglo-American intelligence sharing.
Concise, fact-filled, and incredibly informative, this is one of the better Tuchman works I have read.
She not only discusses the actual telegram itself, but brings in the context of the telegram, the key individuals involved and the various dealings (overt and covert) during this critical, if less-publicized part, of World War I.
Perhaps some parts of this work are dated, but the facts still tend to hold up over time.
For a scholar of World War I, especially an American, this is worth the time to read.
I continue to love Barbara Tuchman, and this was entralling.
A very large percentage of the information in this book was previously unknown to me, which is exactly what I want out of my history.Unfortunately, Tuchman left me wanting me.
The Germans had made their decision for unrestricted U-boat warfare thinking that the Americans may declare war, but that they'd not be able to mobilize before the British succumbed to the embargo.
So...I know that didn't happen.
How quickly did we get boots on the ground?
This isn't her fault; she refers to information that any knowledgeable person in the 50s probably knew.
Being aware of how little I knew about the War, I sought a copy of Tuchman's Guns of August.
It tells the story of a telegram intercepted by the British in 1917 containing explosive information that, when communicated to President Wilson, finally drew the reluctant American forces into war.
The telegram is introduced in the first chapter, and the rest of the book sets up the background that creates the tremendous impact it had in the US as well as for the Allied forces being worn down by the terrible stalemate in the trenches throughout western Europe.
I now have a copy of The Guns of August and look forward to reading it.
It tells the story of German attempts to keep the US out of WWI by trying to goad Mexico and Japan into keeping the US too busy to make them enter the war against Germany.
Wilson, President at that time, wanted to get the warring factions to sit down and discuss peace.
The British discovered the German activities and plans by breaking down the telegrams sent from Berlin to Washington.
The book deals with British plans to break the news of the German plots against Washington and how to do so without alerting the Germans to their code-breaking activities.
Detailed account of the deciphering of the stupid secret telegram by which Germany proposed an alliance with Mexico (and Japan) against the United States, whose disclosure helped tip the scales in favor of American entry into WWI.
In my view, that entry was the single most disastrous decision in our history.
His worst trait was a detached-from-reality idealism that led him to take disastrous decisions out of noble motives.
The book itself is quite detailed, but lively for a book of its type.
As we slip again into a stupid war, this episode offers a depressing precedent of politicians' folly.
Another great very informative Tuchman book, she turns history into an interesting story not just facts and dates, and always reveals things I never knew before, cuts through propaganda and generally leaves you feeling like a history savant.
A very interesting read on a forgotten, but very important part of U.S. and world history.
Reading this book I was struck by how much these WWI-era events foreshadowed similar events in World War II: An eccentric German leader; German cryptographers supremely confident in their “unbreakable” ciphers and codes; wily British intelligence officers who not only intercepted and broke those codes, but had to strategically balance the value of using the intelligence versus the very real risk to the war effort if the Germans learned their codes were compromised; and a threat of attack on the US homeland that solidified fractured public opinion in much the same way an actual attack (Pearl Harbor) did two decades later.
I have wanted to read this book for many years and since I am taking a class on it in a few weeks, the time had finally come.
It is an excellent book but, I must admit, not an easy read for me.
These personal deficiencies made the book more difficult for me but I am still very glad I read it and I learned a lot from it.
This book may even help me get away my long standing habit of reading mostly WWII history and move back in time to reading more about WWI.

Not as good as I had hoped it would be, or perhaps more detail than I was looking for, but worth reading.
Nice short history of how the Zimmerman telegram led us to war. Tuchman does a nice job with providing the necessary background of the Wilson administration and the Mexican revolution.
