https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311120.Helen
The long and tedious conversations talking about the same things - Helen is perfect, she doesn't want to get married, she loves her father more than anyone, she doesn't approve of contemporary morals, etc., etc.
He is turned down by Helen, but informs her that she will love him in the end, so he's not going to take no for an answer, and continues to pursue her throughout the book.
In the end, of course, Richard prevails and Helen relents.
Perhaps the last of Heyer's "contemporaries" that I'll force myself to read, Heyer shares once again her dislike of women and her reactionary conservitivism (conservitism?) Chock full of scorn for 1.
women 2.
pacifists 3.
fast women 4.
divorce 5.
Girl Guides (really!) 6.
social work and any number of other things.
I can only think that it must have been fashionable in 1928 to talk about how feminism had gone too far and that women really didn't want to be equal.
An interesting study of attitudes during/after WWI, though.
One thing I like about her regency books is that they are quite entertaining and have interesting characters.
I can't really say the same about this book.
I'm quite sorry it's over..."), I have to remember that books like All Quiet on the Western Front weren't quite the school reads they are today.
To really sum up my feelings on this book, I'd like to say it's a good thing it ended happily.
Books that aren't very good should always redeem themselves by at least leaving the reader with happy fictional ending.
I almost missed out on this wonderful little gem because it was only rated 3 stars. Looking over the reviews now, I realize people hated Helen because she was conservative and had old fashioned values. I love Helen because she is conservative and has old fashioned values. This book is a new favorite of mine. It is so well written! The way Heyer can turn a phrase is just delightful!
A growing up story that starts out adorable and deepens through the Great War and her relationship with her father to maturity. This is a more searching type of novel than the Regencies that Heyer is famous for, firmly set in the emotions and values of early 20th century England.
I actually really enjoyed the character development in this one. The confusing verbal play of the early 1900s was confusing, so I ended up skimming over most of that, but I enjoyed the story of Helen herself, and the role her father took on, his development, after her mother's death.
Another great Heyer book. A little more comtempory for Heyer in that she writes about her own time period and the changes in men and women roles as a result of WWI. There is more depth to this story than to her regency romance novels, but as always, a great read!
Helen is an amazing book but so are just about all georgette heyer books. Helen is more of a coming of age book but georgette heyer mostly wrote romatic comedy
.My review is on my blog:http://maryslibrary.typepad.com/my_we...
Definitely of its time and sad given what was to follow.
