https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/319975.Five_Go_to_Demon_s_Rocks
Firstly, I’m giving this book an extra star for having the most heavy metal title of any children’s book I’ve ever seen.
I’m also deducting a star because it doesn’t actually have any demons in it.This is a cracking little adventure for the Five, accompanied by their new ‘friend’ Tinker and his pet monkey, Mischief.
Needless to say, there’s lost treasure involved, peculiar old men to deliver the necessary exposition, exploration of underground caverns and two mean ol’ bad guys (who are named Ebenezer and Jacob, in a nice little nod to A Christmas Carol).
This was one of my favourites. What struck me, re-reading this at the grand old age of 25, is how utterly condescending the Five are to EVERYONE, including each other! But I still felt some of the old thrills over gold coins and one-eared wreckers, and a lighthouse battered by the winds. I think my favourite thing about the Famous Five stories is that sense of cosiness amidst danger; wherever they go, whatever the adventures, there's always a little spot of golden torchlight, and plenty of hard-boiled eggs.
Me ha encantado volver con los cinco a las rocas del diablo para pasar unos días en su viejo faro.Tormentas, tesoros, piratas y todo ello en un marco incomparable.
¿Se pueden pedir mejores aventuras para unos días de vacaciones?
Yo creo que no y ánimo a todo el mundo a leer o releer los libros de Enid Blyton .
E cierto que hay algunas cosillas que nos podrían chirriar hoy en día como que siempre sean las chicas las encargadas de fregar los platos, pero hay que tener en cuenta que estas historias se escribieron entre 1915 y 1968 y el mundo ha cambiado mucho desde entonces.
Langsam aber sicher stösst das Schema - Kind (hier Justus trifft auf Peter trifft :D) anfreunden, Insel/Höhlen/Stollen entdecken, Bösewichte aufdecken - bei mir auf taube Ohren. Ich frage mich, ob die post Enid Blyton Folgen, welche ich glaub besser kenne, anders sind oder ob mir das als Kind einfach nie aufgefallen ist.. Wir werden es bald sehen, nur noch fünf Originalfolgen übrig, jedoch dabei Folge 1 bis 4 der Bücher! Logik der Hörspielreihe sag ich nur.. [29.09.2018]
I find it hard to think that Enid Blyton keeps coming with new adventures for the famous five to go on.
Monkey's, Lighthouses, and hidden treasure – what more can you want30 November 2014 Well, I have just finished book 19 which means that there are only two more Famous Five books to go before I have completed my re-read of the series (though there are still six Secret Seven books which I will be reading in between those two, even though the Secret Seven is not actually a reread). This time the Famous Five are joined by a young boy, who occasionally thinks that he is a car, and his monkey. Mind yo
Mind you, I'm not really sure about this monkey because Blyton suggest that it is quite small, meaning that it can sit on the boy's shoulder (the boy goes by the name Tinker and the monkey is known as Mischief) and ride on Timothy's back.
As is typical with many of the Famous Five books, this one also takes a while for the actual adventure to begin, mainly because the first quarter of the book has them running around Kirrin cottage making a lot of mischief, and then travelling to the lighthouse to get comfortable before the bad things begin to happen.
So they're packed off to a lighthouse owned by Tinker, and hear of a lost treasure.Now, one thing I thought was weird, was Tinker was car obsessed half the book, and then seemed to forget it all in the face of adventure.
I liked that it was set outside of Kirrin for most of the book, those are my preferred kind in this series.I've only got three left to go in the series now, and then on to something else, but I have enjoyed my time with the five again.
These books (Famous five) are hands down one of my favorite books from my childhood. All those adventures and mystery …and those sandwiches they always packed! aww, just the best! I would love to read one of these again. To bring back those memories..memories of first experiences with reading books.
wow! these people are GREAT! the mystery is..........unspeakable and dumbfounding. i suspect timmy is real cute. :)
These are so fun but I guess it's different when you're an adult :(

Love that it was set in a lighthouse and not a farmhouse, as it added some variety to the series, and led to an interesting adventure. Another treasure hunt though, which was slightly boring. Loved the ending!
Lukumaratonin saldoa tämäkin, parinkymmenen vuoden tauon jälkeen palasin Viisikon seikkailuihin. Paluu olisi voinut olla innokkaampikin, sillä kyllä aika on ajanut omalta osaltani karusti ohi näistä puuhista. Ihan oivallinen välipala kuitenkin.
It has all the ingredients of a classic Enid Blyton books with absent-minded professors, mischievous pets, long lost treasures, underground caves, some bad guys and of course the Famous Five.The book begins with George’s father inviting his scientist friend to Kirrin Cottage so that the two of them can work together on some top secret invention.
The Famous Five do some exploring of their own, find a lead to the treasure and get locked in the lighthouse by the bad guys.
The Famous Five meet up with Tinker and his pet monkey, Mischief.
Tinker owns an old lighthouse at Demon's Rocks - so they all go there to spend an exciting holiday.
They soon meet a great character called Jeremiah Boogle (an old sailor) - and he tells them a fascinating tale about The Three Wreckers.
The children are excited when Jeremiah talks about some undiscovered treasure!It's not long before The Famous Five sense another mystery!
A great story for children who like to use their imagination.
There's lots of fun and adventure in this exciting mystery!
As with all Famous Five books, this is of the same trusted and successful formula. I loved these books as a child and I am delighted that my girls loved them as children too.The stories are adventures of a byegone age, yet still hold the attention of children, around the world...... they have stood the test of time well - and for a great reason.The stories are plausible, fun, adventurous and contain an excellent mix of young characters... with a little bit of everyone in each of them - something that children have obviously known for decades.
I loved the Famous Five books when I was a kid. I don't recall much about them anymore though. This one involves a lighthouse during one of their numerous holiday adventures.I'd recommend this series for kids who love adventure stories coupled with mystery and detective elements. It's like a younger version of the Hardy Boys or Nancy Drew.
OK, you're younger than the others, but you are acting like you are five years old!Blyton herself seems to realize how bothersome it is, and once the children leave Kirrin Cottage Tinker forgets about pretending to be a car, which is something he was doing all the time at the beginning.
I mean, the two scientists can't bear having children in the house making noise, so when Tinker reveals that he owns a lighthouse that happens to be near Kirrin (convenient coincidence!) they all are happy to go there for a short vacation.
"On arrival at the lighthouse, they settle in, and meet the local character Jeremiah Boogle, introduced to the Five by a local taxi driver Jackson, who tells them stories of olden time smuggling which went on in the area.
He tells them about the three Wreckers who wrecked ships by luring them towards the Demon's Rocks deliberately and smuggled the wealth out of them.
For some reason in my childhood, there were lots of British books and comics widely available and back then they were sold for the mighty sum of 10 cents.
Seems funny now when some of the secondhand shops charge $7-10 per book!
I am getting closer to the end with only two more installments to go! Five goes to Demon's Rocks does follow the familiar pattern that Enid Blyton has established for the Famous Five. However Demon's Rocks adds a little boy who just happens to own a lighthouse!! When the five go to stay there with Tinker and his monkey Mischief they fall foul of two criminals looking for hidden treasure. An interesting read but once again a little fantastical in places. However a good little story.
This was one of my favourites in the series as a child and now I remember why! All the essentials are there - excitable scientists, Kirrin Cottage, Aunt Fanny, abandoned lighthouses, storms, buns and jam, old men sitting on docks with a story to tell, Tom the Tobacconist, secret tunnels, a new character and even a monkey! The Five have another exciting adventure culminating in long lost treasure and a happy ending! What else could you want!
First of all, what kind of father forgets what their sons name is? This happens in the case of Tinker, who the Five have their adventure with I do get how scients are so focused on their jobs, but seriously? Tinker was probably the most annoying character in this book.I also didn't think a super lot happened in this book, and the adventure was kind of boring. :)
ada yang mirip antara di buku ini dengan petualangan Lima Sekawan sebelumnya (Memperjuangkan Harta Finniston) yaitu sama-sama mencari harta karun dan harta karunnya ditemukan tidak sengaja oleh hewan peliharaan mereka (Snippet & Nosey di buku "Memperjuangkan Harta Finniston" dan si Iseng di buku ini)
Another fun adventure because the scientists can’t stand the noise the children make. In the end, the noise of the lighthouse bell was so loud the villagers heard and knew the five plus 3 needed help. This story wasn’t quite as exciting as others in the series but still kept my attention.
Five go and live in a lighthouse with Tinker and Mischief. Adventure begins. Five win the day, and consume a lot of deliciously described food. Really, Enid Blyton's descriptions make me want to go eat a salad. Timmy agrees. "Woof!"
Buku ini sukses membuatku ingin menginap di mercusuar.Latar suasana dan latar tempat dalam buku ini sangat tepat dan sangat berpengaruh dalam membangun cerita. Cerita ringan tetapi membuat penasaran.
Semua novel Lima Sekawan menyisakan kenangan indah bagi saya yang waktu itu masih SD/SMP saat membacanya pertama kali. Imajinatif banget menggambarkan kehidupan anak2 di barat karna dulu masih jarang film hollywood yang bisa ditonton.
The enjoyable book.
Poor and repeated story. Not worth the read.
So now I want to live in a lighthouse :/
