https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14096.Wherever_You_Go_There_You_Are
Dear Brother, When you first asked me about how to practice meditation (was it last week?), I gave you a few vague answers and then dismissed it from my mind, thinking that while it is impressive that you consider it seriously, it is not really vital to you right now. But, yesterday when you spoke about how difficult it is to study for more than two hours continuously, I realized that there might be more to it. That conversation set me thinking about a concept called " Digital Natives ". You wou
It is the only time that we have in which to live, grow, feel, and change.The work of waking up from these dreams is the work of Meditation, the systematic cultivation of wakefulness, of present-moment awareness.
Meditation may help us see that this path we call our life has direction; that it is always unfolding, moment by moment; and that what happens now, in this moment, influences what happens next.Mindfulness means paying attention in a particular way: on purpose, in the present moment, and non-judgmentally.
In short, this is the art of mindfullness, which Zinn says has to be kindled and nurtured because "you can only get there if you are fully here" (131) I also like his descriptions of "mountain" and "lake" meditations where one imagines that all sorts of activity may be churning beneath the earth or the water, but on the surface, nature remains beautiful and serene.
One more quote from Zinn which I particularly like: "If you stop trying to make yourself more than you are, out of fear that you are less than you are, whoever you really are will be a lot lighter and happier and easier to live with, too" (239) .
How can you trust or not trust a moment?"In the stillness of formal practice, we do turn our energies inward, only to discover that we contain the entire world in our own mind and body." Oh so this is how I meditate?
I just direct my energies inward and realize I contain the entire world?
The book is jam-packed with circular sentences like these, and very few nuggets of practical advice.
I imagine it's because the practical advice that is there would be a much smaller book, and Jon Kabat-Zinn has bills to pay.
If you want to know how to actually live in the present moment, then this book is for youI have become more midnful of my thoughts and actions, and the amount of time I spend daydreaming or assuming what someone or something else's reality is. Instead, I allow those thoughts to pass quickly, without judgement, and come back to the present, whatever it is I am doing that moment be it playing peek-a-boo with my son, cooking a meal, having a talk with my husband or friend or running a few miles.
I think this guy may go down as a historical figure. He was the prime mover in turning meditation into a mainstream, secular, scientifically tested way to rewire your brain for happiness. This is a great book for beginners and the curious.
The initial section delivered everything I desired: it was inspiring, motivating, and yet everything it detailed felt accessible and in-reach, due to the tone used to convey its message.
I can still see how invaluable this could be to a beginner in the area of the law of attraction, as it instructed on exactly how to manifest desires, and I am still grateful for all this book initially taught me, but still found my attention waning as the book progressed away from its initial message.
For example, this passage from an early part of the book discusses how mindfulness does not always mean suppressing brain activity; rather, it involves accepting things as they come:"People who don't understand meditation think that it is some kind of special inner manipulation which will magically shut off these waves to that the mind's surface will be flat, peaceful, and tranquil.
it's just that it cannot be attained by misguided attempts to suppress the mind's natural activity."Jon Kabat-Zinn also provides tangible steps to improve one's mindfulness, including practicing voluntary simplicity, doing non-doing, focusing on one's breath, appreciating each moment, and more.
"Mindfulness is considered the heart of Buddhist meditation but its essence is universal and of deep practical benefit to all.
Out minds are such that we are often more asleep than awake to the unique beauty and possibilities of each present moment as it unfolds.
We call the cultivating of our own mind to bring it to wakefulness meditation.
It is outside of time as well as in it.In this book, the author maps out a simple path for cultivating mindfulness in one's own life.
The problem might have been increased by the fact that I found a talking book version read by the author.
My reaction to this sort of thing is, admittedly, over-wrought, but I really have to accept that as a core part of what it is to be McCandless.I think I have decided that I would rather learn concentration by concentrating on something I can also enjoy - music, literature, books - and relaxation from walking, rather than concentrating on my breath.I didn't finish this book - which I thought I would, and there wasn't much left to go.
The romantic notion that if it's no good over here, you have only to go over there and things will be different.
If the jobs are no good, change jobs.
If this wife is no good, change wives.
If this town is no good, change towns.
Mindfulness is simply the art of onscious living-in the moment."Jon Kabat-Zinn, Ph.D. is the founder and director of the Stress Reduction Clinic at the University of Massachusetts Medical Center and Associate Professor of Medicine in the Division of Preventive and Behavioral Medicine.
His clinic was featured on PBS series Healing and the Mind with Bill Moyers.
This is like the handbook for mindfulness, a great place for people new to meditation or other contemplative practices to start.
My only beef with Kabat-Zinn is that he has a lot of dangling quotations, where it's like what he's including is so profound that he doesn't feel the need to add to it, explain it, connect it to anything.
And we leave precious little room for ourselves anyway just to be, without having to run around doing things all the time.""It helps to have a focus for your attention, an anchor line to tether you to the present moment and to guide you back when the mind wanders...
I found this in one of those remainder book shops which sell off the unsellable at reduced rates, there I also picked up Pompeii and  Cnut, this one did not impress me so favourably.The author notes in a preface that it is his favourite of his own books, I can't see what he sees in it.
I noticed twice that the author mentioned that meditation would lead to people finding their calling in life.
My girlfriend in college suggested I read this book on everyday Mindfulness Meditation by Jon-Kabit Zinn - since then he has become one of my favorite authors on the subject.
I approach every day as a meditation in movement.
I'm currently working on being more non-reactive and awake and alive in the present moment without having any expectations of it and allowing the moment to simply "be" as it is.
Good, bad, or indifferent - trying not to "force the river" - just allowing things to arise and fall as they will by Non-Doing.
Knowing when to intervene and when to approach and be helpful.
The introduction tells us this book "is meant to provide brief and easy access to the essence of mindfulness meditation and its applications." By "mindfulness" is meant focused awareness of the "present moment." And meditation is "the process by which we go about deepening our attention and awareness, refining them, and putting them to greater practical use in our lives." The book is divided in three parts.
About the only additional material were a couple of pages on the position of the hands during meditation, a suggestion formal meditation be practiced for 45 minutes every day when you can, and that it's useful to do yoga, and that his personal daily "core routine" contains "twenty or so postures." That's it.
If you're looking for something about meditation and mindfulness that's devoid of spiritual interpretations and the like, this is one of the closest approaches I've seen that still focused on the meditation aspect and not just generally being "more aware".
But it's worth reading, and sitting with, and thinking about, if you can put aside scepticism and just try it.One thing I especially liked was that Kabat-Zinn doesn't have any thou-shalts and thou-shalt-nots about this.
If I could only have one book, this would be it. Not a novel, but a really great short chaptered book that teaches more than meditation. It asks the big questions about life and incorporates a lot from Thoreau's Walden with quotes and passages. A good mix of Eastern philosohpy and transcendentalism makes this a great book to read a chapter at a time. It will always be by my bedside.
This is a peaceful reading. It feels like going to a meditation session with the author. You are invited to bring mindfulness into the now, to practice mountain or lake meditation, to understand that you are connected with the whole, to minimise harm and cultivate generosity, love and patience, and to accept whatever is coming.
Meditation may help us see that this path we call our life has direction; that it is always unfolding, moment by moment; and that what happens now, in this moment, influences what happens next.” ~ Jon Kabat-Zinn from Wherever You Go, There You AreFor the last several decades, as a Professor of Medicine and the founding Executive Director of the Center for Mindfulness in Medicine, Health Care, and Society at the University of Massachusetts Medical School, Jon Kabat-Zinn has been one of the leading pioneers in bringing meditation into mainstream medicine.“Meditation is the process by which we go about deepening our attention and awareness, refining them, and putting them to greater practical use in our lives.”I’m excited to share a handful Big Ideas:1.
The Practice of Meditation - Cultivating our mindfulness.2.
Jon Kabat-Zinn is one of the pioneering medical professionals to integrate east/west practices.
I enjoyed the book immensely due to the luminous knowledge he provides regarding the practice and understanding of meditation and the synthesis of impressions held by various thinkers.
It takes great courage and energy to cultivate non-doing, both in stillness and in activity.” “If you miss the here, you are likely to miss the there.
If you mind is not centered here, it is likely not to be centered just because you arrived somewhere else.” “When we are in touch with being hole, we feel at one with everything.
I'd avoided Kabat-Zinn's works in the past, lumping them into the airy-faerie category of new age fluff. Then I read about him in another book (Bill Moyers' dusty but still relevant Healing and the Mind) and was impressed with both his credentials and his views. This book is targeted to clients whose health issues (such as chronic pain) may benefit from learning to let go of hurts from the past and worries about the future, and live more fully in the present moment. Breathing, imagery, relaxation.. all good solid practices for improved self-regulation.
Where ever you go, there seems to be more and more content on mindfulness and meditation.
So when I saw this well known title on sale during a Goodreads Daily Deal I picked it up without much thought (haha).
I can see why this book has both 5 star and 1 star ratings as it varied for me from chapter to chapter and even page to page.A few things that I particularly liked was him calling BS on many terms and thoughts around meditation such as this: “The phrase “letting go” has to be high in the running for New Age cliché of the century.
Jon Kabat-Zinn is simple, but not easy, to use a title of one of his own chapters on p.5.
To stop doing is to die, and this brings to my mind what Christ Himself says about living: Living is dying, and unless a grain of wheat falls to the ground and dies, it remains by itself.
To meditate is to stop is to die on purpose to the rush of time when you are still living.
By "dying" now in this way, says John Kabat-Zinn, you actually become more alive now.
Breathe and let be.
This book, especially part one, framed the practice of mindfulness in such a way that even me, an average white male with an average IQ, could see the advantage of practicing mindfulness and being "present." I have described, to my father, what trying to understand what this practice really is; my metaphor is that it feels like trying to trap a young chicken in an 100 archer cornfield.
I would recommend this book to any person, no matter what your religious views (or no views at all on religion) who is interested in at least reading something that could, potentially, give you a bit of a different perspective on individual human development through mindfulness practice.
Without knowing it, we are coloring everything, putting our spin on it all.""At the deepest level, there is no giver, no gift, and no recipient...
only the universe rearranging itself." "Make a list of what is really important to you.
Embody it.""Our ability to touch love and kindness and be touched by them lies buried below our own fears and hurts, below our greed and our hatreds, below our desperate clinging to the illusion that we are separate and alone.""Read Gary Snyder.""I know of no more encouraging fact than the unquestionable ability of man to elevate his life by conscious endeavor." - Thoreau
In either case, you believe that you are incapable of true change or growth, and that you need to spare others any more pain by removing yourself from the scene.The casualties of this way of looking at things are all over the place.
All I have to do is sit and walk, be mindful, stay in the present, be cooked for and fed by caring staff, listen to the great wisdom that is being put out by people who have worked deeply on themselves and have attained considerable understanding and harmony in their lives, and I will be transformed, inspired to live more fully myself, know how to be in the world, have a better perspective on my own problems.To a large extent, this is all true.
Wherever You Go, There You Are is an excellent introduction to the fundamental principles and thought processes (or lack thereof) involved in mindfulness and meditation.
As compared to other books within this space, this book places a greater emphasis on explaining how a formal meditation practice can assist in cultivating mindfulness.
However, there were several points throughout the book where I felt like I was reading riddles.
Perhaps this will be different when I read this book again in a year or two, which I intend to do.As a final note, I thought this was perhaps the best quote in the entire book."Perhaps ultimately, spiritual simply means experiencing wholeness and interconnectedness directly, a seeing that individuality and the totality are interwoven, that nothing is separate or extraneous."
I read this book a long time ago --(I had forgotten I read it until my friend, Karen, recommended it to me). I once took a 10 day retreat where the last 2 days were 'silent'. This was one of the books we read.Hm?? Maybe I should own it --read it again?
Wherever you go, there you are. That is the message of this book. Kabat-Zinn takes this simple idea and shares simple ways to practice this idea. It's practical. It's gentle. It's easy. It's a book I will read again and again.
That's a great title, and quite true.
Like the title says: wherever you go, there you are.
The thing is, I thought I was about to read a practical guide to meditation, but maybe that is not the best quality of this book.
Still it has got some very interesting things to say about meditation, and life in general, so I'm glad I read it.
So for anyone that wants a good read about mindfulness, I think this is a rather good book.
I think I will read it again, or at least parts of it.
This was one of the better books on mindfulness I have read. I very much enjoyed the balance between simplicity and complexity in both the conceptualization and practice of mindfulness. I am a true believer in the power of living mindfully!
