https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/74405.The_Rebel_Angels
Τι κάνει ένα βιβλίο να υπερέχει ανάμεσα στα καλά, κακά, άνοστα, υποσχόμενα και ό,τι άλλο απαρτίζει τον ετερόκλητο πλήθος βιβλίων στο μυαλό ενός αναγνώστη; Γιατί δεν μπορούμε να διαβάζουμε πιο συχνά τόσο καλά βιβλία; Τελός πάντων, γιατί δεν διάβασα πιο νωρίς στην αναγνωστική μου καριέρα τούτο τον θησαυρό;Αυτά και άλλα πολλά ερωτήματα γεννήθηκαν στο μυαλό μου, όταν διάβαζα τον πρώτο τόμο της Τριλογίας του Κόρνις.Δεν ήταν η πρώτη μου φορά με τον Ντέιβις.
Και κατέληξα με έναν ακόμα αγαπημένο συγγραφέα - αυτή η τόσο σπάνια απολαβή, που με το πέρασμα του καιρού μετουσιώνεται στην αναζήτηση ενός ιερού, σχεδόν χιμαιρικού σκοπού.
It is populated by the kind of characters that Davies knew so well and whose portraits he painted unerringly (if on occasion a little too neatly): they are intellectual elites, connoisseurs of art and artistry, but they are also unique, often bizarre, individuals whose quirks and manias may be the result of heredity, upbringing, or a judicious combination of both.
Davies himself was a true old school Upper Canadian (though indeed one with a decidedly forward-looking bent) conversant with the rituals and mode of the intellectual and social elites and this is very much the place where his characters live.
Μέσα από τα αντικείμενα της συλλογής του Κόρνις αλλά και τις συναντήσεις των Πανεπιστημιακών, υπάρχει ένας καταιγισμός πληροφοριών πάνω σε ιστορία, μουσική και τέχνη!!Η αφήγηση γίνεται σε πρώτο πρόσωπο εναλλάξ ανά κεφάλαιο.
Ένα κεφάλαιο περιγράφει η Μαρία Μαγδαληνή Θεοτόκη, η φοιτήτρια που κάνει ένα διδακτορικό σχετικά με τον Ραμπελαί και είναι το σκοτεινό αντικείμενο του πόθου όλων των αντρών και ένα κεφάλαιο ο πάτερ-Ντατκούρ ένας από τους 3 διαχειριστές της κληρονομιάς και κληρικός του Κολεγίου...
Η γραφή του Ρόμπερτσον είναι απλή χωρίς υπερβολές και παρόλο τον καταιγισμό πληροφοριών δεν κουράζει και κάνει τον αναγνώστη να αδημονεί για την επόμενη σελίδα...Προσωπικά βρήκα αρκετές ομοιότητες με το La-Bas τους Υισμάν και ειλικρινά ήταν από τα βιβλία που δεν ήθελα να τελειώσει...
Y es que este libro, y la obra de Davies en general, se caracteriza por la variedad de temas que trata, siempre desde un punto de vista erudito pero ni pesado ni farragoso de leer.Si tuviese que escoger dos palabras para definir 'Ángeles rebeldes', serían humor y erudición.
Pero todo está tan bien insertado en la trama, que lees el libro de manera compulsiva.'Ángeles rebeldes' es también el primer libro de la llamada Trilogía de Cornish, formada también por 'Lo que arraiga en el hueso' y 'La lira de Orfeo', aunque pueden ser leídas de manera independiente.
I have never been in academics yet I've also not been a researcher and I could read endlessly on a person dedicating their life to the study of a specific subject within the walls of a library, their live's enfolded in cluttered stacks of paper and tilted piles of books.
Seeing the act of reading for me is enjoyment.Wanting a break I thought a fun book on academia would be this first of the Cornish Trilogy by Mr. Davies.
If just for the enjoyment of reading, and by itself, this is a 5 star book.
The chapters narrated by the priest, Darcourt, are all numbered versions of "The New Aubrey II," an arcane reference to Aubrey's Brief Lives: The Elizabethans (a reportedly irreverent collection) since Darcourt sees himself as engaged in such an endeavor regarding his academic colleagues--although, as he says, he ends up talking more about himself.Speaking of irreverent, the setting is a "modern" Canadian college of the late '70s or early '80s called St. John and the Holy Spirit, or Spook, its nickname.
(hide spoiler)]I sure didn't get any of this 25 years ago!P.S. These Robertson Davies books I've been reading have beautiful audio editions remastered from the original tapes.
Not that Canadian literature is all that great, but even overshadowing the likes of Atwood and Munro is still a pretty remarkable achievement.
Like the drama of Renaissance professors and graduate students.
It's gripping stuff, I assure you.The book is tightly plotted and moves fast and is full of lovably quirky characters.
They're not exactly believable characters, and the ending leaves something to be desired, but in the face of the sheer pleasure I've got out of reading this book I'm willing to overlook that.
Davies uses some sort of literary hocus-pocus to fill his books with some sort of joyous energy.
So I’ve been chastened once again by following a tip, again from that Canadian son-in-law I’ve mentioned before, that I might like a certain author of Canadian renown named Robertson Davies.
Indeed, a bit of research (I’m not willing to spend the time.) would undoubtedly yield amusing insights into both character and action.
but it’s perhaps unprecedented in a university-set novel.
The grotesque image on the cover art is from the Tarot and is entirely appropriate to the feel of this novel, which pays homage to the entirety of the human comedy, it’s pain and savagery, as well as to its superficial wit.

No son esos engaños para un buen artífice.El centro de la novela es un personaje femenino que a pesar de estar escribiendo un doctorado vive colgada de las faldas de su madre, no hay capítulo que no la nombre, se sonroja con facilidad, puede acabar llorando si le cantan canciones burlonas y su conflicto con sus raíces gitanas está exagerado hasta el absurdo.
Eso sí, puede mantener conversaciones pedantes como sus compañeros y como hipoteticamente tiene un físico muy vistoso entonces se convierte en el centro de las vidas de unos pobres señores muy tristes y aburridos.
Ésa me parece una forma muy pobre de caracterizar un personaje dramáticamente tan esencial.Esperaba algo y lo que he encontrado es igual a nada.
Interesting premise and characters, but one of the most unsatisfying, contrived and rediculous stories I can remember setting eyes on.
Ostensibly about several academics in a large univ., the book was only saved by the presence of a colorful gypsy family, who were the only authentic and vaguely stirring elements in an otherwise drab, Canadian yawn of a novel.
Miraculously, the last 60 pages or so held the best and most satisfying read, as did the Christmas dinner scene where the gypsy Mamusia reads the tarot for several of the characters.Consider giving it a pass!
"The boat is in Byzantium." Not really too useful, for translations or conversations.Davies does try to give Maria some faults--she has a Gypsy family to contend with and has an adolescent crush on her thesis adviser, Hollier.
Having been employed by a university for 30 years, I have seen many of these dramas play out.My only (small) complaint was that I did not find Maria and Arthur's relationship and marriage very realistic.
There was a relationship in which I would have liked to see more passion!
I was so disappointed in this novel. For one thing, it struck me as incredibly dated: its attitudes towards women for one thing, and the constant assessment of any progressive sentiment as "fashionable" (and therefore, one assumes, temporary). Simon Darcourt was a good narrator, but I couldn't stand Maria and I found myself wondering how they gypsy passages would read to an actual gypsy.But whatever. The mythological/supernatural/religious moments were interesting. I liked the idea of a pure evil character in Parlabane, although I thought the end of his story was a massive copout.Overall: meh.
Good reading for a nerd like me who loves good sentences and endearingly wacky characters.
Subtle wits like to refresh themselves with a whiff of mild indecency. Call mine, then, a subtle wit for I enjoyed this book full of indecencies. I first read The Rebel Angels probably 25 years ago and what impressed me most about it was how Robertson Davies can describe situations totally outside my frame of reference (here, the inner workings of a graduate school and the lofty topics of professorial research) without making me feel ignorant or undereducated -- as Davies' characters speak know
I first read The Rebel Angels probably 25 years ago and what impressed me most about it was how Robertson Davies can describe situations totally outside my frame of reference (here, the inner workings of a graduate school and the lofty topics of professorial research) without making me feel ignorant or undereducated -- as Davies' characters speak knowledgably (yet without condescension), I could grasp most concepts through context, and the ideas that most interested me led to further study.
After raves from Harold Bloom, Salon, and my favorite bookseller this book became my lackluster traveling companion for a journey across the Atlantic. None of the intellectual protagonists sound all that smart, their ideas are far from stimulating, and even the analysis of excrement is somehow boring. Like Possession, this is a writers wet dream (nothing wrong with that!). But though The Rebel Angels is much better than Byatts book, Davies liberated notions at times seem strangely dated and offe
But though The Rebel Angels is much better than Byatt´s book, Davies´ liberated notions at times seem strangely dated and offensive, as when a fat pastor analyzes the naked body of a colleague: "Professor Agnes Marley, heavier in the hams than her tweeds admitted, and with a decidedly poor bosom" (107).
Davies does make this world come alive, you do feel like you are living there with him, the cover on my older edition is great, the idea of woman as Sophia (sexual muse without sexual consummation) makes sense.
I love the flattering notion of professors as modern day rebel angels from Biblical apocrypha (257).
at first I was to give five stars for this book.
It was an amazing feeling how I could relate to its grotesque depiction of the academia.
But this one, I wanted to hide away so that no one would have known how perfectly, intimidatingly touché it felt.
To be honest, I think I have a thing against beautiful yet sparklingly intelligent female characters.
The feeling that I've been dragged into something cheap?
Sometimes she was so full of emotions that she stopped being intelligent, and sometimes she was just so smart that she stopped being a female voice.
This is such an wonderfully inventive novel.
I read it many years ago, perhaps when I was the age of Maria Theotoky, I may have been a little older.
Reading this novel made me feel the way I did when I was young and in university, the way I felt when I met my first husband.
Anyhow this novel captures the flavour of the Ivory Tower in a way that is captivating.
While some of the politics in this novel are a bit quaint and behind the times it remains tremendous fun.
This book really petered out for me. I loved What's Bred in the Bone, another one of the Cornish trilogy, but this I just grew impatient with. Perhaps I read it over too long a time, although that might also be because it never really engaged me...
Это моя вторая и последняя попытка, больше я этого автора читать не буду. Мне было более-менее интересно в процессе и очень скучно в конце.
I am reading this in a different version - one that has the Cornish trilogy in one volume, but want to record each book as a separate read, so this is not the same as the copy I am reading.The Rebel Angels revolves around the execution of a difficult will.
A rich, funny, and slightly ribald campus novel results, one that revels in the fustian of the now-vanished pre-postmodern university.I found this book an interesting read - and really liked the way the inter relationships of the main characters was described.
I leave you to read the book to see what I mean.
Robertson Davies books always just...completely suck me in.
This one involves a 23-year-old half-Gypsy research assistant and several professors at the College of St. John and Holy Ghost (Spook for short), the complicated will of an art patron and donor, a deadbeat defrocked monk who has arrived back in town to mooch off his former classmates and to write a book, and a previously unknown Rabelais manuscript, as well as some letters from Rabelais to Paracelsus, that have gone missing from the art patron's collection.
Maybe someday?In the meantime, I'll just be over here wallowing around in my pile of Davies books, giggling with delight.
En fin, tiene algo que también debe ser de su carácter, que lo hace muy cálido para leer.
Y lo más importante, tiene sentido del humor dentro de toda esa erudición, no cualquiera logra ese balance, pero Davies lo hace de maravilla.Feliz de apenas estar empezando esta trilogía, pero triste porque es lo último que me queda por leer de la ficción de mi adorado Robertson Davies.
Не очікувала нічого від цієї книги, бо зберегла її для того, щоб послухати колись і забула.
Це історія для всіх тих, хто любить книги про університети, науку, яка оживає і якою можна користуватися.
А крім того - про знання родом із сивої давнини, які люди не на рівному місці вигадали.
І про те, що ці забуті знання сучасна наука просто заново відкриває.
В цій книзі є місце філософським диспутам і опису циганських традицій, є місце високому і місце гротескному, раблезіанському, тілесному й табуйованому.
До речі, Рабле в цій книзі грає свою цікаву роль.
А ще є цілі дві частини цієї трилогії - уііі!
As an eccentric, millionaire art collector dies and the three appointed executors get down to the task of sorting through his massive, uncataloged paintings and manuscripts, another old, disreputable university figure reappears on the scene, penniless and dressed in a dishevelled monk's habit, shamelessly cadging off all and sundry yet convinced of his own genius and superiority.Davies loves to echo and make allusion to great works of classical and medieval literature in his characters and plotting, most of which he makes accessible to all readers through clear yet unforced referencing.
Sigh.Make this rating a very strong 3/5, nevertheless, about a decade after I read the second part of the Cornish trilogy, finally reading the first part left me disappointed and unsatisfied.Some of it could have something to do with the wildly differing forms of the novels...the Angels are pretty much diaries of two people spanning one year, while What's Bred In the Bone is a fictional biography.
Some of it - and actually a great deal of it in my case is the fact that Maria's voice was just way off for me.
Maria's inner voice as a 23-year old was just all wrong.
The book counts with a wide public, has great reviews and I can only praise the author's talent to transmit in a witty way the usually unseen side of the academia.
The characters reflect Davies' deep and admirable knowledge of philosophy, literature, history and a number of other subjects, but while I was profoundly enjoying this part, I could not get rid of the feeling that these characters, who are so deep academically, are two-dimensional in all other senses.
I may give Davies another chance some time in the future, but I will put this book on pause in the meantime.
As Francis Cornish, art expert and millionaire philanthropist, looks down from Limbo, nervously awaiting whatever is in store for his soul, his family and colleagues in Toronto oversee the disposal of his art collectionn.
Marvelous book. Intelligent, philosophical, kind, and humorous. Who could ask for anything more.
Their task is disrupted by the unexpected arrival after many years of John Parlabane, whose wit, selfishness and manipulations disturb every other character.The story is narrated by two voices, Maria and Darcourt.
Robertson Davies then creates a magnificent story of scholarly life, friendship, love, manipulation, self-knowledge, lies and betrayal, all interwoven with humour, the knowledge of medieval studies, university life, gipsy traditions, religion and philosophy and manages to make it not only not boring but truly interesting.I forgot to mention that the marriage proposal has found a place in my list of favourite ones, beautiful in its unconventionality.Can't wait to get my hands into the rest of the trilogy.
