https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4633.Islands_in_the_Stream
But it's a good, fine thing to enjoy as a good read.Lots of books you are not reading, because you are reading this one right now, may be better - hell, some must be - but do not dwell on that.
That will hurt like hell, too, and if you get shot a second time you might as well die because Hemingway has it in for you.So be glad that you are reading the book, you bastard, and that you aren't one of the bastards in the book.
The first part of the book is the best for classic Hemingway people-, men-, land-, sea- and food-writing, complete with a fishing struggle that surely inspired The Old Man and the Sea. Part two will test readers who don't love reading about cats and drinking.
Part three is all action unless your literature professors have hammered the Hemingway-Code Hero into your head so indelibly that you can only see it as man struggling to perform duty and maintain "ideals" in the face of great personal loss, the chaos of world at war, and imminent death.
The novel describes the trajectory of Thomas Hudson, a divorced and good-natured artist who leads the life with a certain disdain, with a poetry thing on its banks.
The tragic sequels of the end of World War II are, after all, a portrait of the author himself, since they unite, in a single trajectory, the experiences of the artist and the man of action.
Thomas Hudson has a lot of Hemingway, including his physical description: white beards, fond of good drinks, loving the sea and living in voluntary exile.
The novel is permeated by fine humor, irony and a lot of heat.
It tells the story of Thomas Hudson, a somewhat famous painter, and the visit of his three sons.
Hudson represents a more contemplative type, being a painter, while Roger is more of a two-fisted man of action.
There’s something ridiculous about an artist (Hudson again) being driven by a chauffeur to a military station, where he is apparently viewed as The Man.
(He’s not in the military mind you, and this is World War II.) Hudson has found out that his last son, Tom, has been killed in action.
Still, all of that said, there is some wonderful writing to admire in this part.Part three has Hudson pursuing Germans on the islands.
I no longer, though, have an aversion to Hemingway's works and will gladly read more in the future.This story of Thomas Hudson had me glued to the pages.
Hemingway has a way of blending his personal life with his fiction.
He brings elements of his life into this story and builds around them.
Hemingway did a great job of balancing all the elements of a man finding his way through some good and some terrible personal times.
I'm glad I did and I look forward to more Hemingway in my reading future.
The way to take this novel is to read not expecting to know all right away and even then many things are not told or quite clear but when you finish you will see it in the whole and how important each part plays in Tom Hudson's life and in his heart and mind, which encompasses his whole being.
An author does not need to "spell" things out but the words he uses makes it quite evident how this ends.I came away knowing I enjoyed this story and when I thought about all three sections and how they played into Tom Hudson's life and how he acted, I see the humanity in its whole.
Seriously, if the book was finished and the writer hadn't bothered to take it to the publisher, what would you assume his motives to be?
If that was the case, I agree with him completely.There are some parts of the book that I found engaging; Hemingway knew fishing and firearms and draws the reader in when he writes on those topics.
And that, incidentally, is a name I will never forget...because Hemingway uses the full name each and every time he refers to the protagonist; Thomas Hudson did this and Thomas Hudson did that.
Without a doubt I'm head over heels and “Islands in the Stream” only confirms it.Even though this book was never highly praised by his critics and is one of his later works it is, to me, one of the finest literary works to pass before these tired eyes.
Thank you Papa for showing me that great writing does exist and that I am capable of falling in love again.
I actually enjoyed this Hemingway story.
I have found that I like the posthumous Hemingway writings better than what he put out when he was alive.I felt like I was in the Caribbean while reading this story.
And in doing so I was able to relive my trip that I had to the Caribbean over twenty years ago.
One caveat though, if you like Calypos music, parts of this book will get the songs stuck in your head.
At one point I was singing bits of the songs at work and I was getting odd looks.So give this one a go and enjoy the picturesque writing.
I started out thinking I was really going to enjoy it, and liked the affectionate tones and his style of writing.
By the end of the novel I felt like I was stuck in a room with a drunk man that was making me listen to a drawn out, glorified, story of his life and all the indulgences and machismo and booze-fueled sentimentality that is unbearable when you're the sober one listening.
I really had to muscle through the third part of the novel and did not enjoy anything about that part.
I will try Hemingway again but I think I'll have less patience for the paternal arrogance.
Only giving 4 stars as its not my favourite Hemingway book.But it's still classic Hemingway writing.It's amazing how he writes such clear simple sentencesand still leaves such vivid images in your mind.You would never need a dictionary reading Hemingway.He just captures so easily some of the beauty of life just casually(or so it seems) as he tells his story.He is not everyone's cup of tea but for me one of my favourite authors.
הגיבור בתקופה זו היה עני אך מאושר, השתתף במרוצי סוסים כך גם המינגווי ואף זכור לי שבאחד המקרים ניצל זכייה במרוץ סוסים לנסיעת סקי שלו עם אישתו ובנו.החלק הראשון בספר, בימיני, על רקע פסטורליה, מתאר הסופר את השבר שבין האב לבניו מגרושותיו.
כל הרמזים בספר מצביעים על כך שגם אם להמינגווי לא היו חרטות על בגידתו בהאדלי ריצרדסון ובגרושיו ונישואיו השניים, הוא עדין הרגיש משהו כלפי האדלי ואין זה מן הנמנע שאהב אותה.החלק השלישי היה במקור מה שאנו מכירים כ"זקן והים" אולם לאחר שזה פורסם כספר עצמאי, הוסיפו אישתו של המינגווי והעורך סיפור שנקרא "Sea-Chase" שיותר התאים לרוח הספר ולמבנה שלו.חלק זה עוסק במרדף אחר חוליית חיילים גרמנים נאצים לאחר שנמצא כפר שבו נערך טבח.
Filled with his crisp style of writing that leaves so much to the imagination that the story transforms into truth in the minds of his readers.The problem with Islands in the Stream is that Hemingway, presumably, had no intention of publishing it, at lease in its present form.
Consider that Islands in the Stream and For Whom the Bell Tolls both have about 450 pages.
As it presently sits, this book is Hemingway’s iceberg, still attached to the glacier, and waiting for a Hemingway that will never exist to carve it into the story that it was intended to be.
Highlights include the children's stilted dialogue in Bimini, long digressive stories told to a prostitute in Cuba, (Which she manages to point out are boring as all get out.) and then it finally gets interesting, though in need of serious edits about page 385.
Please for the love of god, read any of EH's other books.
There is a reason that this one wasn't published until after his death.
Read the last book, (At Sea) if you're going to read any of it.
This was originally supposed to be part of "The Old Man and The Sea." That novella won a Pulitzer, and it did so because it wasn't dragging this 450 page anchor along with it.
To věděl i Hemingway, tak knihu přesunul na Kubu, kde se Thomas Hudson nalejvá znovu - hned prvních dvacet stran si povídá s kočkama na lodi, tak to jsem už otáčel oči navrch hlavy, ale říkal jsem si, tak třeba už konečně s tím debilem nechce nikdo mluvit, ale ono ne, jen co přijde do baru, sedne si za šlapkou a dialogové peklo začíná nanovo, kdy ani vzpomínky na těžbu wolframu v Hong-Kongu nejsou na škodu.
Závěrečný hon na ponorku už ani nehodnotím, protože jsem kvůli krvi v očích pořádně neviděl na stránky.
Uma viagem com muitos riscos e peripécias, num cenário simultaneamente idílico e perigoso, entre calmarias e tempestades, também durante a segunda guerra mundial, onde Ernest Hemingway demonstra que foi um homem aventureiro, experiente marinheiro e também guerreiro, fruto da sua vida em que desfrutou do mar, participou em guerras, o que faz transparecer que o que lemos está realmente a acontecer.
If the author of this was an unknown it would never have gotten out of the slush pile.
my favorite novel.before i experienced a loss, i was drawn to stories of loss... this is the best of them.the greatest love story ever written.
Le vicende raccontate nel testo forse non hanno un gran mordente, ma i personaggi sono gente viva, che buca la pagina, ti afferra per mano e ti trascina con sé dandoti l'onore di diventare tu stesso un personaggio.Se si conosce la vita dello scrittore, si sa quanto la sue esperienze abbiano influenzato il suo lavoro… è tutta un'autobiografia la produzione di Ernest.In "Isole nella corrente" siamo agli sgoccioli: Hemingway traccia una sorta di bilancio, e ciò che ne viene fuori è estremamente velato di tristezza e dolore.
The story is nostalgic, poignant, and laced with morosity, which, if you know anything about Hemingway the man, was also the end of his life.
Hudson is pitiful.Then, out of nowhere, Hadley Hemingway comes along.
I mean, the audacity of Hemingway to make Hadley into a sluttish starlet to vindicate his own evils.So of course, in good conscience, he kills Hudson.Very flawed and very dishonest.
It gets four from me because I loved how much it showed me about Hemingway's personal instability at the end of his life.
La salsedine nell’aria aiutò una immedesimazione anagraficamente improbabile, e anche se l’aver abbandonato il torneo di biliardino e la finale di nascondino non giovò alla mia popolarità tra i coetanei, ogni volta che spunta fuori il buon Ernest quel profumo di mare mi torna alle narici.Sfidato dal giro letterario, stazione Bahamas, e appurato che gli scrittori locali si contano sulle dita di una mano e sono anche difficilmente reperibili, con emozione ho appreso che il primo romanzo postumo di Hemingway, “Isole nella corrente” (Islands in the Stream), è parzialmente ambientato intorno ad alcune delle 700 (settecento!) isolette che compongono lo stato caraibico.Ero un po’ che non frequentavo Hemingway.
his characters are such pitiable assholes
I've been a Hemingway fan all my life, and even though I read this novel as a teen, it didn't really work for me.
All the good stuff reads like imitations of stuff he did when he was younger, before the booze and the multiple wives and the multiple concussions.
And some of the wishful thinking is almost comical!
Thomas Hudson drinks a Heineken for breakfast and then says, "it would be easy to be a rummy, wouldn't it." And then INSTANTLY his loyal flunky (who is a real rummy, natch) chimes in with, "not you, Tom. You like to work too well."Puh-LEEEEZE!!!!
I haven't read Hemingway in many years and decided to use him for this winter's reads. This book is truly a great work. Efficient, direct and hard but stirring to the soul. He is best read by those who have lived a bit, for those readers who have not yet lived much, might find it a little hard to find a bit foreign.
Superb Hemingway dialogue that made me laugh out loud on a number of occasions. The nautical imagery was brilliant and I could smell the salt on the pages. Part 3 was especially intense, having done a bit of VBSS myself.
By far my all time favorite book.
Hemingway at his sad best. And sad Hemingway is the best. Bimini (Part 1) is the strength of the book.
Hemingway wrote many books while living at Finca La Vigía including - Islands in the Stream.Along the north side of Cuba there are many strings of small island keys.
Ernest Hemingway spent a lot of time in the waters of these island chains during World War II - hunting German Nazi U-boats in his thirty-eight foot boat, named -The Pilar.
Hemingway's adventures and the time he spent here were the inspiration for his classic novel, Islands in the Stream.
Like Hemingway, the main character of Islands in the Stream spends time tracking German U-boats in the north side of Cuba.Hemingway was known to frequently haunt two of old Havana's bars in particular.
It comes with one of the island boys bringing a radio message up the road from the local post office and saying, “Please sign on the detachable part of the envelope.
But the boy looked at it and put it down on the table.“I don’t care for a tip, Mr. Tom,” the boy said and went out.He read it.
He took the radio form out and read it again.
It can be cured by death and it can be blunted or anesthetized by various things.
But if it is cured by anything less than death, the chances are that it was not true sorrow.”

