https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/776877.The_Invasion
They had everything I wanted at that point: quick, dramatic chapters printed in this super-cool space age font, badass fucking aliens (you got your giant centipede things, your huge warriors with bodies made of blades, weird blue centaur-things with stalk eyes and scorpion tails, and nasty-ass slugs that crawl into your ear and control your brain), a core of main characters that had token, unfailing identities, and some great romantic tension between them.Some might argue that the concept- a gaggle of 13ish year olds stumble upon a dying alien who grants them the power to morph into any animal so that they can fight the impending invasion of a species of brain-infesting slugs, accept this offer, actually avoid death in the first 5 minutes while still doing their homework- is a stretch.
3.5 stars THIS BOOK IS SO EXCITING. Kids morphing into animals, flying saucers, and allllieeenns!We're discussing the first 3 books on the blog 10/31. I can't believe I've never read these before.
Don't let the rating fool you; reading this book initiated the most significant literary experience of my life.
I can only start off by saying that I blame Animorphs for my interest sci-fi, physics, biology, genetics, ethics, animals, war tactics, and basically almost every aspect of my intellectual and emotional life.
I've yet to read anything of the emotional depth and sympathy of Animorphs.
But the series also taught me about the power of sacrifice, duty, and love.
Undoubtedly my affection for this series plays some part in my re-reading the books every now and then.
But with Animorphs, it's the series that packs a powerful punch.
And while for the most part all the little details I noticed that set up things to be revealed (the crashed Andalite ship, Tobias' longer encounter with the alien) were consistent with later books, there was also the occasional blip, like here in the first book it appears that even while not in a morph, the kids can direct their thoughts to another person in a morph, where later in the series, it's well-established that you can only use thought-speak while in a morph.
I was a member of the Animorphs fan club, with ~secret letters~ from the kids; I had a calendar and a poster of the aliens, a <JOIN US> holographic sign; I played the shitty online web game and printed out instructions for my friends on how to access it; I played the computer game demo despite the fact that the family desktop could barely handle it, but it still seemed like the COOLEST THING EVER; I made fanpages in Angelfire and laboriously hand-coded navigation grids of character photos, finding individual pixel coordinates in MS Paint; I would run home to catch the unbelievably terrible TV show whenever it happened to be on Norwegian TV (IT'S ALL IN YOUR HAAAAAANDS); I bought the first couple episodes on VHS; my best friend and I were convinced Yeerks had infiltrated the teachers at our school; I joined websites and chatrooms and it was probably my first-ever fandom.
It was a best-selling middle grade/young adult book series,a Nickelodeon TV show,a videogame,and a Transformers toy line.I was a big fan of the show as a kid, I played the games, and had a big collection of the toys.
Don't judge me.) However, I only read a couple of the books.
I never began reading the series from the start.
I'm finally starting at the beginning and reading on through.
I definitely did.Also, aside from the keyhole cover, there is the super awesome gimmicky page-flip animation thingy.
When you flip the pages, there's an animation at the bottom right hand corner.
They use their morphing technology to spy on the Yeerks and to destroy their facilities and whatnot.But what makes these books so amazing is that these are kids, having to pretend they're normal kids so no one knows they're the "Andalite bandits," and they are fighting the enemy while living right out in the open, under their noses.
There's a reason for this, which is revealed much later in the series.Jake is appointed the leader very early on, when the other kids are first looking to him to see if they would accept the power to morph.
I re-read this the past weekend and now I can't stop thinking about it.
I'm tearing through wikipedia remembering how awesome the whole thing was.
I want to go back through the archives and read them all!
There's only 64 books...
this one only took me 90 minutes to read.
I could burn through it in a few weekends...< No Sam, no!
You're an adult now, remember?
If Starz or Hulu picked it up it could be really compelling!< Sam!
>I just downloaded the entire series on epub.< NOOOOOOO >Sam read Animorphs books for longer than two hours.
Reread this in an hour or so last night. God but I love these books. And we've only just cracked the world-building in this first book. It's very concise but still fantastic, the morph acquisition is plausible, and the characters are well-defined from the beginning. Still so good.
(I’m sure there is an entire PhD thesis devoted to tracing the ways those two series have been revised and rewritten and re-released throughout the twentieth century—and if there isn’t, there should be.) But it was probably an early indicator of my lifelong love for science fiction that I fell hard for Animorphs.I depended on my school and public libraries to furnish me with copies of these books.
Go read her reviews!As far as The Invasion itself goes, it sets the stage for the rest of the series.
There’s two major difficulties: it’s often hard to write a great review of an amazing book, and how does one review a book one has read a billionty times since one was ten years old?
I first saw this book when I was ten years old in my school library.
I seem to recall half of my class telling me about this book, because #2 had a girl turning into a cat and everyone knew I liked cats (as should be obvious from my blog header).
It felt wonderful to slip back into this familiar story, almost to where I could recite line-for-line what was coming up next (I don't *quite* have it memorized, but everything just felt familiar).Scholastic started re-releasing Baby-Sitters Club books and I read the new prequel when it debuted, and what I was struck by in the prequel was how clunky a lot of it felt.
Perhaps I'm partial to The Invasion because I loved Animorphs way more than I did BSC, but I believed back in the day and that belief is reaffirmed now: these books were written to be read by anybody.
There was a time when I was depressed, and in my angsty boredom I looked at the full Animorphs collection sitting on my bookshelf and grabbed one of them to read.
But almost immediately I was absorbed back into the heads of these characters, and I remembered all the ways I identified with them and related to them.
I tore through the rest of the series after glancing through that one book, and somewhere along the way I snapped out of my depression.
The characters will leave their mark on you, and revisiting these books is a powerful way to remember that influence.
I have every single one of these books, from #1-54 of the regular series, the Ellimist/Andalite/Hork-Bajir Chronicles, Visser, all four Megamorphs, and the two Alternamorphs choose-your-own-adventure books.
While the books are very very formulaic and repetitive, particularly in action sequences and morphing descriptions ("He tucked back his wings and went into a dive..." "The feather pattern came up on my skin and burst into 3D..."), they have very lovable characters.
Also, they are unafraid to do real damage to the characters, short of killing them, looking into ethics on a level that is startling for a children's series especially.
This series is amazing. Katherine Applegate presents a phenomenal story with five diverse, fleshed-out characters, and doesn't sugar coat it. This first book is fantastic and grips you right from the start. I love each of the characters and everything they add. Reading this again as an adult, I really value how this series doesn't ever talk down to the reader. Also the nostalgia value is off the charts!
Coi như nhấp môi một cái cho biết cái vị, vậy thôi.
So glad I decided to read this series on a whim. It's actually really really good. (I'm about 2/3rds through the 2nd book as I'm writing this, and am really excited about the way that it's going.).I guess I expected it to be, a bit cheezy, kinda immature, and a little dated, but still definitely fun. But it's really not, and it kind of makes me wonder why I'd never heard of this series before?
ignore that i am 23 years old and only just now reading animorphs, thanks
It has been such a huge part of my life, and it's such a great treat to be able to go back and revisit these stories as they are reprinted again.Some things to note about these reprints: The books originally came out in the 90's, so expect the pop-culture references in these new books to be updated as well.
I don't think she meant it in that way, but I still found it hilarious.Overall, Animorphs is an excellent series, and this book is a great origin story for new readers to discover, and for old fans to revisit.
Đọc hấp dẫn, mình đọc một lèo không nghỉ luôn, cái ý tưởng muốn hóa thành con vật gì cũng được nó thú vị kinh khiếp :'(
Được trao cho năng lực hóa thân, thứ vũ khí bí mật của người Andalite, nhóm năm người bạn phải tìm cách chống lại lũ Yeerk tàn ác để bảo vệ Trái Đất.Sự trở lại của bộ truyện này ở Việt Nam chắc cũng phải làm mưa làm gió cả nửa tháng nay, nhưng mình thì không có ý định mua, chi tiết hơn mình sẽ nói ở phần cuối.
I never thought I would be reading fantasy and sci fi, but that is what my daughter has picked up recently.
She typically reads Animal Ark books and Wind Dancer (winged magical tiny ponies) so this is a big jump in genre for her.
She found some parts funny, but it must have grabbed her attention enough to where she wanted to jump into the next book.
However, now I am hooked enough to want to know how it ends and their seem to be hundreds of these books!
But yes, I would reccomend this to any kid in this age group regardless of what genre they like.
My first reaction was "Oh dear, the writing is a bit ordinary..." A few pages later I was fully swept up in the glorious nostalgia of it all!
I read and reread the earlier books (I have no real idea how many times I've read this first one...
Suffice to say my copy looks well loved) but somehow never quite made it to the end of the series.
Hoping this may be the first step to finally fixing that in adulthood!This rating is definitely highly influenced by nostalgia, however based on this reread the series has definitely not lost its magic in the years since I first read it.
He also has a fondness for tigers, it seems, admiring Jake’s morph while trying to fire blast him as the Animorphs escape.Adult Ugly Crying at a Middle Grade Book: A tie between Jake’s older brother Tom fighting so hard to get out of the Yeerk pool only for Jake to see him at breakfast the next morning knowing that the Yeerks captured him and he is once again under their control and Tobias.
I've been writing about books that were formative for me in my childhood, but Animorphs was the first series that was integral to my childhood.
Slowly but surely they come to realize that their town is really infiltrated, and they can't trust anyone.A major plot point that takes up most of the series is introduced here, and that's Jake's brother Tom is one of them.
Jake is the angsty good hearted leader, Marco's the snarky one, Rachel's aggressively awesome, Cassie's gentle and thoughtful, and Tobias is ...
The main plot is introduced, the major villain (to start with), and it doesn't shy away from letting these characters just be realistic kids.
At the very beginning, the main characters have their lives turned upside down when they realized that their world was never how they thought it was.They meet a dying alien named Elfangor who warns them of another alien species, that have infested some humans and plan to take over mankind, called Yeerks.
(hide spoiler)] But it's scenes like that in these books that show that there are consequences for your actions and not everything turns out the way we plan them.
In the beginning of this series, Jake seems like the least interesting character.
I read this at Katie Randall's suggestion. I went in with zero expectations and was pleasantly surprised. I wish I'd read it as a kid so I could love it as much as Katie, but it was still an enjoyable read for me. Since its target audience is young, the battle parts are quick, which I like in a sci-fi novel. I'm invested in the characters and want to see what happens next.
There are a lot of complaints that I let Rachel die.
Some people who were brave and fearless in war are unable to handle peace, feel disconnected and confused.
Other times people in war make the move to peace very easily.
Jake and Cassie were in love during the war, and end up going their seperate ways afterward.
Jake, who was so brave and capable during the war is adrift during the peace.
Even the people who win a war, who survive and come out the other side with the conviction that they have done something brave and necessary, don't do a lot of celebrating.
But now that I'm eighteen and in love with Sci-Fi, I'm going back to my roots and reading this was such a pleasure.
These young kids, teenagers are so fucking noble, so brave and this was one of the first books to introduce a black protagonist and a fierce female one to me.
I'm so friggin' excited to read the entire series (in a sequence that too).
Animorphs is one of my fondest teenage / early adolescent memories and I love reliving it.Five Stars and an A for all the feels this book brought about.
I came across the title on the internet and recalled the small paperbacks lying in piles next to my pillow ages ago.
I never finished the series because my sister stopped buying after some 30-ish volume.Anw, I suppose that's one of the first (and few) sci-fi YAs I've read.
Likeable characters (I still remember I quite liked Marco), readable length (each has 2-300 pages or so), simple story with add-ons (sub-stories that happen in another time, at another place).I only give this 2 stars because I dropped the series fairly easily.
Of course the translation sucked big time, but translation issues (and my sister's decision) were not the reason.
