https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/574097.Happiness_Hill
The plot description in the Goodreads entry is familiar, but I don't recall the details of the book well enough to presume to rate it (except that I remember that, even back then, I thought it was awfully shallow --even more so than Horatio Alger's books), and it isn't a type of fiction I'd read today, or bother to re-read.
However, I've always regretted that I couldn't remember the title, so I could list it on my "read" shelf for the sake of completeness.
Sweet, restful readI'm older and can remember when courtesies were observed in daily life: a time when foul language was never heard and rude behavior was unknown. GLH's enjoyable stories take me back and give me a rest from the jittering, jarring world of today. The Arleth family is one you wish were your neighbors and John Sherwood a beloved friend. I've read Happiness Hill about eight times and always enjoy it.
A Quickie ReviewNow this is what I've come to expect from Grace Livingston Hill! The previous two books of hers I read were a bit sub-par, but this one was great. Fans of this writer who haven't read this one definitely should.Score: 4/5
When I was 13, a friend of my mother's gave me her original hard-backed edition of Happiness Hill, and I could see that it was well worn from having been read so many times.
Now, 40 years later, she is still my favorite author, and Happiness Hill, in my opinion, is still one of her best novels.
Rags to riches in the material sense is a happy ending story, but as the reader, I finished the book feeling that if this family had not seen their fortunes turn around, so to speak, they still would have had "happily ever after" because of their love for one another, and their love for their Saviour, Jesus Christ.
12-29-08: I'm in the middle of other books, but suddenly had a desire to read this one!
It's one of my old favorites, but I haven't read it in eleven years, holy cats.
Best part is, it's like reading a new book!
This one is totally surprising me with unique twists to the characters.
And the story just embraces my heart with the relationships among family and friends!
There's a thread of mystery and intrigue, with moments of mortal danger--just enough to keep me turning the pages with eagerness.
Also great--there's a ton of story.
250, but I have eighty more pages to go!
This really is a strong 3.5 stars. Although Grace Livingston Hill was a Christian romance novelist, this is hardly a romance novel by today's standards. The Christian thread is a bit too prevalent for me, yet on the other hand played a very strong part in the story. This is another book recommended by someone whose reading recommendations I take very seriously and he rarely steers me wrong, Dr. Joe Wheeler.
A cute love story, but sometimes a bit illogical. Some of the story-lines were sketchy and not particularly well developed so they didn't feel very real. It would have been better if it were a little longer or a little less complicated.
Loved every part of this sweet story. I had forgotten that I had already read this one years ago. Love the twist on rags to riches and surprise element. Although the reader suspects what is coming...somewhat predictable but great story.
Grace Livingston Hill is my guilty pleasure...
This is the first GLH book I read as a young girl. It has always remained my favorite, though I have enjoyed many through the years.
Great book. This is about the third time I have read it.
