https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1123610.Guns_of_the_Timberlands
A dispute over grazing rights on a timberland patch turns into a kind of gunfight at the O.K. Corral. Pretty standard bit of western writing here propping up your basic stubborn cowboy vs pigheaded businessman plot.
However, L'Amour has a way of pushing out novels like these that while they may not take up weeks of your time, you find yourself transported of the couple days or so it takes for you to read the book.Often after I complete a L'Amour, Baldacci or Connelly book, I often wonder if they have a formula on their computer somewhere, in which, they input the main character's name, his/her antagonist, romantic interest and the vague idea of the plot, and whala out pops a completed book.All kidding aside, I appreciated Guns of the Timberland.
Man, oh man, is this a well-crafted story. I am in awe. It's tautly plotted, with superb characterizations and enviable action scenes. I loved it.
Decided to try Louis L'Amour to change things up a bit. Though I'd never read one before, it seems that if the library has kept enough check outs going to keep his books for that many years, there must be something to it. And there was. The writing is descriptive, and while the characters are somewhat sterotypical, in some ways that was nice for a change. Enjoying a simple good vs. evil plot, without a lot of complex twists and turns to drag the story out was refreshing. Good read.
After reading two or three of L'Amour's books, he is pretty predictable. Nevertheless, he acquired much trivia from the Old West which he sprinkled throughout his novels to make them interesting. Somehow, the "good guy" alwyas getting the girl is fun and appealing and causes the reader to open yet another of L'Amour's numerous tales of the Wild West.
I just love books like this where the good-guy has morals and ethics, yet also is quite capable of standing up and fighting when necessary. I like that the good-guy isn't just good, he also has gathered a wealth of experience and good people around him.
A nice, typical Louis L'Amour story. I prefer reading the book over listening to it though. The voices just didn't sound right to me.
I really liked it. A man had built his life and ranch on his land. It doesn't go over well when someone tries to ride roughshod over him to get the trees that are on his land.
I know I’m belaboring the point here, but the bottom line is that Louis L’Amour was the greatest writer of western fiction ever to walk this earth, and Guns of the Timberlands deserves its place amongst his very best novels.
At the end of a L’Amour western, the good guy wins, but those who read these novels are better humans in every way after completing that journey as well.
If and when I ever finish all of his numerous novels, I will read them again, and Guns of the Timberlands will undoubtedly be one of the first I revisit.
One of the best L'amour books I've read.
In this story, a cattle rancher depends on grazing his stock in and around a stand of timber on public lands in the desert of the Southwest.
A rich businessman comes into town and announces he will harvest the timberland to aid in the expansion of a local railroad company.
Though efficient, there are secrets and twists that I did not see coming that I was pleasantly surprised by.
Louis L'Amour uses amazing descriptions of the sights, sounds, and smells that instantly pulled me into his Western world.
It was a little difficult to understand the layout of the land especially in terms of how it was used in battle tactics.
In this nice little western, lumberjacks ("timber beasts") in Arizona throw a new theme into an otherwise rather formulaic genre.
The protagonist Clay Bell has settled in a nice mountain valley to ranch after being a cowboy, soldier, hunter, fighter, and prospector.
A few years and his B-Bar Ranch is well on its way but still not on a paying basis when Jud Devitt arrives in town with plans to log the B-Bar's summer pasture on federal land in the mountains.
Devitt, our maligned antagonist, is determined to get the lumber by hook or crook and only the B-Bar stands in his way.
The sixth western by L'Amour takes a little different twist. Still the ex-gunfighter trying to settle down theme, but this time the problem is a logging operation who wants his land. Interesting due the descriptions of the loggers, as they are different than the usual cowboys, gunfighters and cattlemen. A good read.
This early Louis L'Amour has a few loose strings, but some good prose and characterization. It also unfold pretty predictably. Finally, this is one book that might have benefited from a little map (which sometimes appears with L'Amour books); I had some trouble following the local geography, and a lot of what happens depends on this -- access to a plateau, shortcuts to town, etc.
This book is a pretty stock Western. There is a hero, the girl he falls in love with, and a bad guy. You know how it is going to end, you just don't know how the author is going to get there. It's a quick, enjoyable light read.
Became interested in Westerns, decided to try L'Amour. Wasn't bad. Wasn't exactly riveting but I did enjoy it to a degree. Follows the formula. Would not be opposed to reading more L'Amour if the mood strikes.
Who can not love a L'Amour? I've read everything he wrote, most more than once, over the years and I still enjoy a re-read now and then.This is a good one. No ambiguity at the end, our hero wins the land battle and the girl, both. Gotta love a good fight and a happily ever after ending!
An enjoyable western adventure that takes place in Arizona. Louis L'Amour always had the story telling capabilities to keep a reader entertained. His books will be read over and over.
After Clay Bell spent years in building a ranch despite adversaries and nature, the ruthless speculator Jud Devitt attempts to take it away from him. An enjoyable tale by a master storyteller.
This one was rather fast paced and interesting. It lead off with a fast start and kept up the pace from there. As all of the Louis L'Amour books I have read this one was great.
Really good story, although it still amazes me how many of Louis L'Amour's characters managed to study boxing with Jem Mace in New Orleans.
Louis L'amour is not known for massive great works(with some exceptions-lonesome gods anyone?) well developed non two dimensional characters with complex thoroughly explored motivations.
Nor are his novels lacking in the occasional plot hole and they certainly aren't the most historically accurate.
No one does the singular hero better then L'amour and he typically throws refences to places and events that did actually occur into his novels.
Whatever the intrinsic flaws of the genre and his novelization nobody writes better westerns then he does and guns of the timberlands makes for an enjoyable read.
Pretty good story. Super quick read and pretty short so there isn’t much for development of character or plot. And there must be pages worth of fist fight play-by-plays, so maybe it’s just more geared toward men than women anyway. ;) Also, there’s a sentence at the end that made my few feminist feathers ruffle and makes me glad I live today and not 200 years ago. :)
MatchlessStory that holds your attention word by word, writer without a match to his prose!Mr L'Amour has proven to have proof of a life lived, lead by his own history! He lived with the gift of ability to put into words that puts you walking beside characters he creates. Our world will miss his great adventures, but his writings remain with me to be revisited time and again!
Read by Samuel GropperI enjoyed the book, because it was a action filled western. The book has a great story that is very easy to fallow. The main character Clay Bell is a very interesting and smart person making the book very likable.
This story is about a fight between Clay Bell, who owns the B-Bar ranch, and Jud Devitt who wants to cut the timber on Clay's ranch and sell it to the railroad for ties. Clay outsmarts him. End of story. Excellent L'Amour.
This book was good. If your interested in that old western type of brawls and gun fights between cowboys, then this is the book for you! I will admit, it was a little slow in the beginning but definitely picks up throughout the plot of the book.
Another pretty good book by L'Amour. A quick read with plenty of action. There was a portion of the story that got a little confusing to me as to who was in town and who was at the ranch. But overall another fine Western.
Another exciting tale of the woes of the early cattleman.I love this period of our nation's history. It is amazing what our ancestors endured to settle this wonderful country.
One of L'Amour's better novels, mostly because he keeps it simple and lets the story tell itself.
