https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11395597-why-be-happy-when-you-could-be-normal
This is a book for those that love reading and writing; this is a book for those that understand why someone would spend their entire life doing such things: it is a book that speaks directly to the book lover.
This book would become her first novel  Oranges Are Not the Only Fruit  which, if you didn’t already know, went on to win numerous literary awards along with establishing Winterson as a successful writer.
Twenty-five years have passed in between books, and her mother has died since, and as a result Winterson addresses the themes with more clarity and retrospective wisdom.
It is hard, for instance, to believe that the author, as an adult, never addressed her mother as anything but Mrs. Winterson.Small personal anecdote that has nothing whatsoever to do with the book other than it's a bit about Winterson's famous girlfriend who was much celebrated and made a lot of money from her book on fat and feminism, but there you go, when did my reviews ever stick to the point?Years ago, having quite a lot of money and not much sense of what to spend it on I decided physical perfection was all and took myself off to a health farm, or 'spa', in Malta to lose some weight and tone up.
This is the truer, grittier, more analytical version of Oranges are Not the Only Fruit (my review HERE), with an update of Winterson's very recent attempts to trace her birth mother, and interspersed with thoughts on words, writing, literature and a dash of politics of family, class, feminism and sexuality.
Much of Winterson's upbringing was awful: neglect, psychological bullying, deceit and most importantly, lack of love, and yet she comes through it all the stronger and even when she has a major breakdown in later life, still realises that her pain has made her who she is.PLOT SUMMARYThe story is now well-known, but to recap, Jeanette was adopted by a poor, middle aged, dysfunctional couple who belonged to a Pentecostal church.
My review, as well as my other thoughts on reading, also can be found on my blog.Resolute and unsentimental, Why Be Happy When You Could Be Normal reckons with the legacy of childhood neglect.
In the memoir’s first part Jeanette Winterson reflects on her experience of growing up gay in Accrington, England, inside the household of her adoptive mother, a Pentecostal fanatic prone to abusive tendencies.
The memoir’s second part, by contrast, follows the author in the present as she searches for her biological mother, with the help of her partner.
Winterson writes about the blighting of the industrial North of England -- her description of Manchester as the country's "engine" is stunning -- and Thatcherism, the tutor who said to her at Oxford, "You are the working-class experiment" (her best friend got "You are the black experiment"), and there's a striking paragraph-long explosion at cultural critics who called her "arrogant" after her books were published, who didn't understand that for a working-class girl daring to dream of being an author, that wasn't arrogance, it was "politics." Again from her blog:Shelagh Delaney, writer of A Taste of Honey, was so good, and she didn’t get the support she needed to develop.
This part of the story is moving but a bit pat; it is clever and rather self-aware, although it is certainly devastating and illuminating in turns.But then—after a two-page "interlude" that encompasses about twenty-five years—the second half of the book is practically in the present, starting maybe five years ago, and it encompasses Jeanette's search for her birth mother.
This is the story Jeanette is still living, and it has not been rehearsed; it has barely even got done being lived.
I'm tempted to start quoting lines, but I'd wind up transcribing pages and pages, and I haven't got the time.But listen: this book is really brilliant.
Jeanette, I love you.
But it’s not true.(analogy does not hold water, says GR reviewer)Yes, you find out that in Oranges (and I’m thinking that you need to have seen the tv series or read the book first, both recommended, so no hardship) a lot of punches were pulled; but no, the whole picture is still not revealed, and JW uses the full panoply of 32 track overdubbing, phasing, extreme stereo panning, hotshot studio musicians, the works, in her new version of the old story of her crazy childhood.
she must also have been furiously angry at her, but this book is about forgiveness, not anger.when young willful jeanette falls in love with a girl mrs.
if you read the first part of the book without knowing who jeanette winterson is, the fact that she got herself into oxford will make your jaw drop.
in Agnes's Jacket psychology professor gail hornstein debunks the myth that people who hear voices are invariably schizophrenic or bipolar and need to be medicated to kingdom come (i'm sure she's not the first to say so, but her book is the first where i read it).
books and words saved young jeanette, plain and simple.
I love that in the middle of such a difficult upbringing, the author has the capacity to laugh at some rather peculiar and crazy circumstances.The center theme of the memoir is her descriptions of her very peculiar Pentecostal upbringing as well as her tumultuous relationship with her adoptive mother, whom she calls through most of the book "Mrs. Winterson".
This is when her writing becomes more introspective, a search to connect the past with the present.By now, Mrs. W has passed away and Jeannette has managed to maintain an almost normal relationship with her father.The author then begins the search for her birth mother, which is perhaps where the reader can feel a deeper sense of empathy and connection with her.
I was reminded of What to Look for in Winter: A Memoir in Blindness which I didn't think much of at all; the trauma memoir is not a genre I get along with.
I love the fictionalised version of Jeanette's growing up, Oranges Are Not the Only Fruit so much; it's one of my favourite books, and here she shares that reading herself as fiction as well as fact was necessary and liberating.
When we say 'I think' we don't leave our emotions outside the door.
Read this if you want your heart broken. Read this if you need it healed.
Winterson infuses the story with her wry tone and wit and it was just a wonderful listening experience.The family she is adopted in are conservative to no end and especially her mother (who she almost exclusively calls Mrs Winterson throughout the book) is often horrible to her.
Listening to Jeanette Winterson detail the abuse she suffered would have been unbearable if she didn’t manage to always infuse her story with a sense of optimism.
This sense of reflection was what struck me the strongest about this book.
Jeanette Winterson's adoptive mother, called Mrs Winterson throughout the book, was a fervent convert to the Elim Pentecostal Church who believed and declared that Satan had led her to the wrong crib, who read Jane Eyre to Jeanette, but changed the ending so that Jane married sanctimonious St John Rivers and went on missionary work with him, who burnt the books hidden under Jeanette's mattress because "The trouble with a book is that you never know what's in it until it's too late," who locked Jeanette out all night,who kept a revolver in the duster drawer, who believed Jeanette's sexuality was a demon to be exorcised.The second half of the book IS raw.
When Jeanette Winterson tried to tell her adoptive mother, always in this autobiography referred to as Mrs Winterson, that she loved her girlfriend, that she made her happy, Mrs W’s response was ‘Why be happy when you could be normal?’This book has lain on my bookshelves unread for years.
I don’t know why except that, possibly, it’s because I have never managed to engage with JW’s fiction, with the exception of Oranges, the book that she hates to be defined by.
It’s a painful journey, so painful that she misses out around 25 years saying that maybe one day she will revisit them but not now.In many ways, this book is a difficult read because it is so full of raw emotion.
There are passages and phrases that will be recognisable to anyone who's read Oranges Are Not the Only Fruit: this is not surprising, since that first, bold announcement of Winterson's talent was a roman à clef, and never claimed to be otherwise.So anecdotes and jokes crop up in both books: the mother says the lesbian sweet-shop owners deal in "unnatural passions", and the young Jeanette thinks it means they put chemicals in their sweets; the gospel tent, the CB radio, all the memorable details of the first fictional outing come up again, but the point is not that this is repetitive.
begins with Jeanette being raised in the small English town of Accrington in the 1960's, and focuses on her relationship with her adoptive mother, Mrs. Winterson, and survival - survival of poverty in the industrial North of England during the 1960's and 70's, the many abuses at the hands of incredibly religious Mrs. Winterson, Jeanette's discovery of literature at the Accrington public library and her road to becoming a writer; the discovery of her sexuality and the fact that she's a lesbian, and the quest to find her birth parents.The character of Mrs. Winterson - physically and emotionally hovering over the whole household, destroying both her marriage and her adopted daughter with her religious fundamentalism - dominates this memoir.
I'm thinking here of John McGahern in particular, who worked on the hard facts of a lonely, repressed, religion dominated childhood in many and varied pieces of fiction until he produced his final novel, That They may Face the Rising Sun by which time he had worked through all his anger, all his loss, all his disappointment and could finally offer us, while still using many elements from his earlier works, a simple meditation on nature and the cycle of life and death.
Despite the difficult home this couple provided young Jeanette (or Janet as she had been named), this book is riveting and full of great moments.
Her mother, who refused to have books in the house because “The trouble with a book is that you never know what’s in it until it’s too late” (33), paradoxically assigned Jeanette to fetch from the library the murder mysteries to which Mrs. Winterson was addicted.
Jeanette sees it’s written in poetry, figures her mother has made a mistake, and sits on the library steps to read.
Very funny and well written. First Person. British novelist who is adopted by working-class evangelical parents who never loved her.
This memoir is split between Winterson's youth, marooned and alienated in her adoptive parents' home and her adulthood as she searches for love (and learns to love). The quest involves relationships with other women as well as a search for her birth parents. Winterson has a clear, unique writing style and I enjoyed following her on her unfinished journey.
Εκτός από τη ζωή της μέχρι τα 16 της με τη σκληροπυρηνικά θρησκόληπτη μάνα της βλέπουμε επίσης τη μάχη της με την κατάθλιψη, την αναζήτηση της βιολογικής της μάνας, την καριέρα της ως συγγραφέας.Μιλάει επίσης για μεγάλα ερωτήματα στη ζωή, τη μνήμη, την αγάπη, το σπίτι (ως έννοια), την λογοτεχνία, θέματα φύλου και φεμινισμού.Συνήθως δε διαβάζω αυτοβιογραφίες διότι δε με ενδιαφέρει η ζωή του δημιουργού παρά μόνο το δημιούργημά του.Αλλά υπάρχουν εξαιρέσεις.Η πένα της Winterson είναι έξυπνη, αιχμηρή, καυστική και λέει αρκετές αλήθειες.
Αν ο συγγραφέας με ενδιαφέρει και ως άτομο, τότε ναι, θα τον διαβάσω.Πέρασα καλά και νιώθω είμαι έτοιμος και για περισσότερη WintersonΒαθμολογία: 8/10
It pains me to give Jeanette Winterson's memoir a poor review.
It pained me so much more to read this book.
She writes in a frank and conversational style describing her early life and referencing her early books.
She "goes mad", begins a search for her birthmother and the narrative becomes rather self indulgent and whiny in the process.
Yes there is a genre for books that go there (self help, recovery, personal growth) and there is a language for this too ("I'm no longer a victim, I'm a survivor") but I didn't want Jeanette Winterson to write it.
The book starts with her early life, being adopted, living with her adopted mother, who is not only a religious nut, but abusive, and tells Jeanette she is from the wrong crib.
This is her journey out of this life, where loving books from an early age, she talks about reading English Lit from A - Z.
I was amazed at how the author infused much of this book with her understanding of literature and poems.
This is writing like I've never seen before and I loved it.
Peccato per il quid non necessario di retorica di cui la Winterson si serve per interi paragrafi, suonando un po' troppo banale, per i miei gusti.
L'uso eccessivo della prima persona plurale e qualche frase che sembra uscita direttamente dai manuali di autoaiuto non sono, però, bastati a rovinare un'autobiografia sviluppata in maniera non lineare, intermittente, con ironia e audacia.
Il rapporto con la madre labirintica e vendicativa è la chiave che l'autrice usa per analizzare la sua storia e soprattutto la sua relazione con l'amore: l'amore verso le altre donne, verso la vita, verso i libri, verso il tempo.
Notevole.
bu kitaptan önce tek meyve portakal değildir'i okumak iyi olur, çünkü bu kitapta epey atıf var tek meyve'ye. özyaşam öyküsünü tüm içtenliği ile yazmış Jeanette hanım, kendisiyle tanışmış samimi olmuş gibi hissediyorum. anlattığı öykü epey dramatik ve beni duygusal olarak zorladı.kitaplarla ve edebiyatla olan ilişkisi ve onlara tutunabilmiş olması oldukça etkileyici. en kısa zamanda tek meyve'yi hem okumak hem de izlemek istiyorum.
Opening this book was a return to the universe of 'Oranges are Not the Only Fruit,' (albeit a parallel one, although as always the line between the author's fantasy and fact are blurred), a place made insular by a domineering, lonely mother and a religious community on the fringes of a bleak northern town.How easy it is for parents to fuck up: to project on to their children, to over-compensate in love or despair, to long for them to be friend rather than child.
I prefer the fiction to the prose... very hard to see the thing naked. I'm one of those people who would rather see what an artist does with the shattered self than where it all comes from. It can be more emotionally true. Winterson's fiction is bolder and more sure of itself than she is in her memoir, which seemed a little subdued to me,
O mamă cu o obsesie nesănătoasă pentru Apocalipsă și Judecata de Apoi și un tată care prefera să stea mai mult plecat de acasă decât să se implice în viața de familie, părinții adoptivi ai lui Winterson i-au insuflat acesteia în mod indirect o mare pasiune pentru cărți și pentru literatură, în special fiindcă în casa lor cărțile erau interzise.
Plecând de acasă, Jeanette trece prin multe dificultăți până reușește să-și găsească un rost, dar cumva lucrurile se așază în favoarea ei și astfel ajunge să meargă la Oxford, să scrie o carte premiată și ajunsă bestseller, transformată chiar într-un serial BBC de succes, și să poată căuta dragostea în mod liber.
Bardzo lubię Jeanette Winterson od lat, choć były takie momenty, że mi się przejadała.
Może jednak przeczytanie tych kilkunastu powieści--niektórych więcej niż raz--na swój sposób mnie to zaprogramowało.
Późniejsza historia--o depresji i odnalezieniu matki biologicznej--też jest ciekawa, ale nie aż tak obezwładniająca.Myślę też, że książka może trafić do wielu osób, ale że dla młodych lesbijek może być szczególnie pocieszająca i afirmująca.
W tak piękny sposób wpisuje specyfikę doświadczenia inności i lesbijskości w ciało literatury.
Czuję się teraz wkręcona w przeczytanie którejś późniejszej powieści Winterson i dużo sobie obiecuję.
In fact, I judge a bookstore based on whether or not they sell her books and so far I've read all but two.
They have indeed formed a string of guiding lights in my life.
I've read the covers off and devoured multiple copies of Written on the Body, my favourite book of all time, and her writing has profoundly shaped the way I think about life and love.
I feel incredibly blessed to have read this very raw, intimate account of her personal life.
I hope she knows and feels how loved she is.
My life wouldn't be the same without her in it.
