https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22321.All_Tomorrow_s_Parties
The only character that seemingly knows what's happening is a half-crazed, half dead Laney (from Idoru) who has been hiding in a cardboard box city and who quite happily admits from the start that he doesn't know WHAT is going to happen only that SOMETHING will.If you can accept this kind of storyline, that blends social commentary with near future science fiction, action, thrills, suspense then William Gibson is the man for you and the Bridge Trilogy as a whole may well be worth consideration for comparison to Snow Crash.
and what seemed like it's going somewhere - and going somewhere big - failed to meet my expectations...If somebody wants to see the worst things about Gibson's writing, this book is where to look for them.
The good things also show, like the realized, interesting setting, interesting characters, and novel concepts, but they are overshadowed by all of Gibson's faults.Really, for an ending of a trilogy of books, which consisted of one solo book and a follow-up which simply doesn't work very well on its own (Idoru), this is as underwhelming as it gets.
His settings are often barely sci-fi - but the way he talks about them, they seem as if they are.
Leads to philosophical musings about - it's all in how you look at the world....'All Tomorrow's Parties' is a sequel to Virtual Light and Idoru, but works as a stand-alone as well.
It's more about setting, characters, concepts.Ex-cop Rydell is now working as a security guard at a chain convenience store, when he gets an offer to do a mysterious 'job' for his friend Laney, which sends him to a squatter's community of The Bridge.
Slow to start and too quick to finish - the conclusion could have used some more development and clarity. The characters, as usual for Gibson, are really well drawn and make this worthy of four stars. What is most interesting here is the setting - the focus on the "interstitial" bridge area and its symbolic connection to post-industrial society and the effects of advanced capitalism and neo-liberalism on specific groups of the population.
The Bridge trilogy has always felt somewhat laid-back in its connections across books—characters in common, vague references to events, but each book has been very much its own story.
(Why buy a physical product online if there’s a 3D printer nearby that will print it on demand for you?) Once again Gibson demonstrates that even if a science-fiction author’s job isn’t to predict the future, it’s still mighty impressive when the dart lands in the general vicinity of the bulls-eye.All Tomorrow’s Parties is a rich, meditative conclusion the Bridge trilogy.
A crashing good read, but I came out wondering what happened.
Good book for waiting.
Leading the chapters with pronouns, without reference, keeps me puzzling for a while - "who's he talking about?" - sometimes I figure it out; sometimes I don't.
"And looking backward is very nearly as much fun as looking forward, though our digital soup does thin out rather rapidly, that way down the timeline." (Harwood, p 304) Great Dismal did not "envision the internet", any more than Al Gore, but he certainly did envision virtual reality, as 'cyberspace'.
That vision keeps developing inside his books and out.
We never learn the number of casualties on the Bridge, but we do see it is not totally destroyed, and the city cares, and has a plan in place, and gets there in time to put the fire out: overly optimistic, as I say, although perhaps Gibson couldn't have known that.But the thing that really hurts, for me, is that I'm not like any of the characters in the book, except perhaps the new middle-class-ified Chevette.
I hadn't read any of William Gibson's works for many years, so it was a pleasure to find that All Tomorrow's Parties gave me the same sense of delight that Neuromancer did. Gibson understands the world-changing impact of digital media and creates a series of delightful riffs on the subject. A number of characters are in play, from Tokyo to the Bay Bridge ghetto in San Francisco. One of the nodal points of history is about to happen involving Rei Toei, the Japanese Idoru, a digital being who is about to play a direct role in history. Good stuff!
Gibson's deliberately cool, crisp writing--it conjures using an intense _specificity_ and delectable word choice--conflicts with the frequently grubby and detritus-laden settings of his stories.This is the end of something.
The "interstitial" society of the Bridge is becoming contaminated by the larger culture, in the form of tourists and commercial/media observation and outside investment and involvement.
The counterculture is becoming the culture and being absorbed or at least encroached upon and monetized.It felt like a heist or caper, at least at the start, but the slow impression is that the caper aspects are not built around a plan or plot of human invention.
The characters are reacting to emergent or nonhuman behavior they don't understand, and the results are intensely disorienting.
I very much enjoyed watching Rydell, the down-on-his-luck failed cop cum security guard, stumble his way through Gibson's world and continue to land on his feet while playing pivotal roles in events too large for him to really comprehend.
In light of that observation, what the nanofaxes at the lucky dragons portend for Rei Torei hint at one of the outcomes of the novel, and given Rei Torei was created by corporations as a media construct, it manifests the issue of copyright on a completely different level.
My favorites here were the graffiti-eating paint, the quake-proof polymer building materials that engulf whatever’s thrown at them, the global interactive video screens on the pylons outside the Lucky Dragon stores all over the world, and the world-changing piece of technology that appears at the end of the novel.Those who’ve read the first two BRIDGE trilogy books (which are not required since All Tomorrow’s Parties can stand alone) may want to know what happened to the characters they met there, and there are some answers here, but as with Mona Lisa Overdrive, the sequel to Gibson’s Neuromancer and Count Zero, these characters’ stories don’t so much resolve as just kind of leave us guessing at what might have happened next.
This was the first Gibson book I've read, and I realized, late, that I've been reading the "bridge trilogy" out of sequence.
I have had my fill of this future place for the time being.My critique: What a dirty, dingy, existential world Gibson inhabits here!
(Ok, this is a bit extreme on my part, but I grew weary of Gibson's bleak universe.) ...All of which makes this book (these books) hard for me to like.
Also, I had a very difficult time feeling for any of Gibson's characters.
Gibson's tragedy is Aristotelean except for the ending...
Oh, and there's a kid who doesn't talk that much and is also obsessed with watches, which since he resembles every single person who now stares at their phone or smartwatch constantly is probably the element of this story that looks the most like the future we live in now.Also thrown in the mix is Rei Toei, the sentient computer system from the last book, now not so much in the man hunting business as the being on the front lines of the future transforming business.If you think this will all converge somehow on the Oakland-Bay Bridge once again, then you've successfully noticed this is called "The Bridge Trilogy." If you think all these threads hold too much plot for a three hundred page novel, then you haven't read too much Gibson.
William Gibson's novel All Tomorrow’s Parties brings together characters from his novels Virtual Light and Idoru and places them into an apocalyptic event in San Francisco that is meant to mean a new beginning for the world.The novel begins with the fact that Colin Laney has gone insane, the inevitable result of being used to test an experimental drug in a federal orphanage.
Chevette and Rydell from Virtual Light provide most of the book's action, as Laney in his miserable surroundings rules the plot from the background.All Tomorrow’s Parties is a disappointment.
'Future' is inherently plural.""He had been taught, of course, that history, along with geography was dead.
That history in the older sense was an historical concept.
History in the older sense was narrative, stories we told ourselves about where we'd come from and what it had been like, and those narratives were revised by each new generation, and indeed always had been.
History was plastic, was a matter of interpretation.
History was stored data, subject to manipulation and interpretation."
One of the bridge's inhabitants comes back home with a friend to shoot a documentary at the same time that a time conglomerate world-wide event that will shift life as we know it, is about to take place.
This is being predicted by a mental man hiding in a cardboard box in the subways of Japan because as an orphaned boy he was chemically experimented on and the side effects give him powers to surf the ether-net in our world.
Coincidentally the hired gun to go and fix the shift is none other than the ex-boyfriend of the girl who comes home to the bridge and she as well will be part of the equation.
I've got something to admit.
It's pretty much the same show over and over, but it's got guts and grit, archetype characters and grubby scenescapes.
The pattern is familiar, but endlessly entertaining.
Upon repeated viewings, characters deepen, the well-worn grooves become familiar, making the viewer all the more aware of differences.
The comfort of the canon, the excitement of the "twist".I've only read a handful of Gibson's work, but they so far have managed a rough consistency of misunderstood genius with a gift for sensing the future.
The future is bright, maybe even day-glo and hideous, but not with being completely far-fetched.
Characters you have known and grown to love.
Its still full of slang and stylistic grammar, but the flow is much better.I loved the plot, the setting, etc, but the ending is too ambiguous and too fast.
So much time was spent on characters like The Suit, which are completely inconsequential, yet very little time is spent in areas i felt needed it the most - the conclusion to the plot.
What happens with the walled city?If this book was given a sequel, i wouldnt really mind, but as a conclusion to a trilogy, its abrupt and jarring and made me disappointed.
While the final book didn't hold it's end up well it was at least more cohesive with the first book than the second one was.
Gibson continues to flesh out the anarchical society that has developed on the now damaged and abandoned bridge.
Which makes for the best part of the book as he seems to have let his characters fall to the wayside.
Laney makes only brief appearances that are as ethereal as Rei Toi herself.
As for the villains, the word cardboard comes to mind.However I am still in awe of Gibson's imagination and wordsmithing.
This book accomplishes with Gibson aimed for and didn't quite reach with Virtual Light, both conceptually and tonally. The nodal point concept was pretty well done and pulled off a nicely subtle ending, and the world he invested time to build (particularly the Bridge, but also many of the characters) pays off nicely.
Possibly my favorite of the "Bridge" trilogy. Chevette and Barry return, changed but still very much themselves. The characters we meet throughout the book are interesting, except Laney, who took bland to new levels. The plot was easier to follow, though I'm hard-pressed to remember it. (I'll give this review a re-write after I re-read the book.) This is a great prequel, bridging (har har) the modern (well, '80s) world and the future of "Neuromancer."
This book is different, I have never read anything like it. The world is like an extrapolation of our internet world, but yet different. The story itself was good, short, enlightening and.. weird?I think I need to read the other books to better understand this.Anyhow, I would recommend it very much.
I finally finished the "Bridge Trilogy" with this book last month. I liked the middle one the best. I guess I just didn't get how the plot of this one wrapped up. It seemed like a lot of plot for little payoff. I think I'm done with Gibson for a long while. I haven't really enjoyed much of what I've read.
So, I always love William Gibson, but I don't now how I missed this one - I read the other two books in the Bridge trilogy, but missed this one. I love the idea of the Oakland Bay Bridge closed to traffic after an earthquake and becoming full of squatters in cardboard and plastic homes.
This is a reread and better the second time through. As the bookjacket says. Gibson coined the term cyberspace and envisioned the Internet and virtual reality before either excited. Maybe a stretch but this 1999 book is still relevant today, a forecast of what might be.
Typical of much of Gibson's work the story is engrossing and captivating even if the conclusion leaves something to be desired. never quite hitting the high notes of earlier books in the series but all the same its thematic and thought provoking.
See also my review on Idoru. Maybe I'll go back and read both Idoru and All Tomorrow's Parties to see what they were about as they were read in a quick rush through college.
wow, what is this? and still it all feels very familiar.
Having gone back to read this series after the fact, it still feels transitional by comparison with the Blue Ant trilogy which follows it.
ATP is limited somewhat by a cast that's larger than the Bridge trilogy really needs, and Gibson struggles a bit to keep everyone relevant and engaged.
The Bridge trilogy is a must for Gibson fans, but also--it must be said--the least essential of his first three series.
Three books, enjoyable and engaging in their way, but perhaps must important as a 'bridge' of another sort, helping Gibson to hone his craft enough to be able to create the stronger works that would follow them.
Not even Colin Laney knows for sure, but somehow, they’re all intimately connected to a turning point in human history–a massive paradigm shift that’s going to begin in San Francisco, and after it happens, nothing will ever be the same.In All Tomorrow’s Parties, William Gibson picks up where he left off in Idoru, bringing us back into the tortured mind of Colin Laney, a man with a singular ability to gather threads of cause and effect in the infosphere and anticipate when important things are about to happen.
