https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1513343.Gospel_of_Sri_Ramakrishna
I've read a lot of biographies of both Christian and Hindu holy persons, including St Francis, St Therese, and Paramahansa Yogananda. And The Gospel of Sri Ramakrishna is my absolute favorite. His spirituality is so simple and childlike, yet profound. And since the book consists of a 19th-century, first-person account by one of his disciples, it seems more complete and immediate.
One of the most enlightening book I ever read, no concept or idea, only experience of God-consciousness from one of the most revered saint of India, and humanity. You will found every answer of life in this book, he is really a treasure of the world. Mahendranath Gupta, who record this conversations, become a devotee after first meeting with Sri Ramakrishna, because of his humble and simply enlightened being he is. Read this book, it will change your life..!!
I used to have this book and would like to get another copy and re-read again. Fond memories of reading this from years ago...
The first is that even though it is very long, and the book does follow Ramakrishna's life from when he began teaching to his death of throat cancer and the founding of the monastic order that followed his death, one can pick it up at any page at any time and start reading.
There are lots of things I love about this book, and one of them is that Ramakrishna, being an illiterate Bengali country boy of sagely wisdom, is always profound but simple at the same time.
The original title of M's book translated literally into english is "The Nectarine Words of Sri Ramakrishna".
For a few moments at least, I would be transported from my world of hectic work and money to a world where all this did not matter, where only the love of god mattered and where to love god and be immersed in Him were not a philosophy to be discussed but something which was entirely real and a way of life.Ramakrishna is the living proof that men even in this world, men who are not historical legends but who are almost within our reach in time, can still ‘touch’ God, have mystical experience of oneness with God.Ramakrishna's religion was love, love of god.
One of my absolutely favourite books. A priceless insight into the life of Sri Ramakrishna, it captures so beautifully the experience of learning directly from a God-realised spiritual Master. The stories are intimate and alive with detail, transporting the reader as though directly back in time to 19th Century Bengal.
A great book about a great master.
Absolutely inspiring. My daily guidance and companion book to "Mother as I saw her"
One of my all time favourites. It gives you the complete details about the life of an enlightened master. I consider Swami Ramakrishna as one of the most enlightened and spiritually elevated souls.
A must read for all spiritual aspirants. . . . answers all questions about God/Soul/Consciousness . . . duality and non-duality concepts . . . and dispels the doubts of his existence.
The truth is not about characterization and physical identification. This book simply simplifies the experience of truth by a true yogi.Mr M simply records. He doesn't have any idea or belief. He simply writes his Master's life and interactions with people. That is amazing. Because if you start identifying, characterizing and defining truth you miss the point. You live truth. That is the best you can do. This book simply without saying that says that. It is sad the world still has not woken up to Ramakrishna.
How mysterious are the ways the divine perform reading this book will not solve the purpose of tasting the divine nectar instead one has to experience the love of divine . Really blessed are those who reached this level. I only pray to almighty to include me in the journey of true blissful love
Beautiful book about a beautiful guru, who constantly teachers with short stories ripe with metaphor.
A very good book for soul searching and understanding the universal truth. Also helps in many ways to overcome common life problems.
A must read to realize the infinite. shows how to Love him with all our hearts. shows how to love everyone with all heart.
When the flower blooms, the bees come uninvited
Ramakrishna was an ecstatic presence of God. The book amply illustrates this in his bursts into song and dance praising the Divine Mother, Kali, the Lord, the path of devotion.
He samadhic states of no pulse, no breath were pure demonstrations of Spirit.
The book is long and there are plenty of incidents to plow through, but the wisdom, the simple parables, and ecstatic love are always present adding richness to whatever is going on.
I find Ramakrishna's seeing the presence of God in all things very analogous to how Jesus may have approached life.
It’s a pity that Goodreads does not have a 20 Star rating. If so then this book deserves no less. A must read for anyone who wants to understand Hinduism in its simplistic form, exactly the same way as Thakur was, a simple, jovial mahatma with childlike innocence.It took me a while to complete this book, namely because I wanted to digest every chapter.
Verslag van de zienswijze van Ramakrishna op diverse geloven als uiting van verschillende apekten van datgene wat na de dood aanwezig is. Met als achtergrond de Indiase cultuur van eind 1900. Boeiend.
very enthusiastic
Wonderful so far!
