https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149608.Force_10_from_Navarone
The book starts with Mallory, Miller, and Andrea being picked up at an airfield in Greece.
The movie adds two Americans (Harrison Ford and Carl Weathers), which were not in the book.
The movie also omits one of the most crucial characters in the book...
The rivalry/bickering between Miller and Reynolds in the book add so much to the plot, but the movie omitted it.
Alistair MacLean actually wrote some of the screenplays for the movies made about his books.
Although there are gaping differences between the book and the movie, they are both great and I would recommend either to anyone.
As far as I know, this is the only Alistair MacLean novel that is a sequel, a follow-on to The Guns of Navarone.
But, strangely, it’s a sequel to the movie version of that novel rather than the novel itself and consequently a little bit confusing given the changes to the characters.
Of course this is an Alistair MacLean novel so there is a hidden mission, hidden even from the British Commandos.Aside from the slight confusion of this being a sequel to the movie version of a prior novel, it is actually a pretty decent read.
He had a few really great books - mostly his war and Cold War books (HMS Ulysses, Guns of Navarone, Ice Station Zebra, Where Eagles Dare) - and a bunch of real stinkers in his later career.
But overall, both his plotting and writing style look a little convoluted by today's standards (I can still remember my Dad being totally confused by the movie version of Where Eagles Dare - "wait; so is Richard Burton bad now or still good?"), and this is clearly evident in this book as well.
Also, as MacLean's only sequel (that I know of), this story doesn't stack up against his classic Guns of Navarone.
Once again, the book is WAY better than the movie.
Took me a while to really get into this book, but wow,a cracking read which follows on from The Guns of Navarone. Same characters, and MacLean's descriptive passages kept me on edge. Brilliant.
Mallory, Miller and Andrea were quite sure that killer was Dorshny : which at later point of time comes out to be true.
But Reynolds consider that Mallory is betraying them, which turns out to be nothing more than absurdity.Now after taking the information they go back to Neufeld and Dorshny where they capture both of them and make them move to the remote black-house where they find the four disappeared Army agents ,none of them was hurt.
So, that’s how Mallory and team finished the mission being camouflaged in the beginning playing the part of deserters which later in the book Mallory tell everybody that Neufeld and Dorshny already were aware of their true identities.
And then somehow destroy them!The story begins where The Guns of Navarone had left.
Keith Mallory and his team, after successfully completing the seemingly impossible task of silencing the guns of Navarone, are given a hero’s welcome.
How Captain Keith Mallory and his team plan to carry out this operation and meanwhile deal with the enemy counter-plotting in their desperate and frantic attempt to somehow stay alive, is what the plot encompasses.This novel is typical Alistair Maclean style.
The storyline in a warfront setting, the enviable pace at which the story progresses, the larger-than-life, seemingly-impossible-yet-has-to-be-done type task structure has Alistair Maclean written all over it.
Great story, but a bit awkward in its attempt to shoehorn the plot into a sequel to The Guns of Navarone.
The same characters Mallory, Miller and Andrea from earlier book are chosen to go on another mission just after they destroy Guns of Navarone.
This time they are asked to get deep into Yugoslavia in a secret mission to help Yugoslav Partisans against Germans and Chetniks.This mission is described in multiple layers and the true nature of the mission is not clear till the end of the book.
It gets confusing at times but true to his style, author has handled the story very well and I remained glued to the book till the end.As is true with most of the books, the timelines of the mission are within one or two days and time moves really slow and characters in the story move really fast.
I picked up the book a couple years ago, just getting around to reading it, because I'm one of 'those' people.
After reading Force 10, I'm definitely going to hunt for Guns and maybe even other Allistair MacLean books.
I normally don't get that itch where I simply can't put a book down and so read it in a short amount of time.
It was the characters though that I enjoyed the most.
From beginning to end, I was intrigued by these characters and the ever unfolding plot.
This is a terrific followup to the classic "The Guns Of Navarone".
Our intrepid trio are barely off the island of Navarone before being whisked off to a new challenge.
Gregory Peck is replaced by Robert Shaw, David Niven by Edward Fox and the movie completely eliminates the character of Andreas played by Anthony Quinn in the original film despite the fact that the character is in the book.
Added to the cast is Harrison Ford in one of his first post-Star Wars films.
Having done deeds of derring-do on Navarone and exposed the enemy's informer, the team of crack mountaineer, explosives expert, silent killer and radio expert are looking forward to a well earned rest.
But no, there is a crisis in the Balkans that only they can resolve and with the minimum of briefing they are dropped into the thick of it again.I loved The Guns of Navarone (the book, not the film) and found it at exactly the right age.
Unfortunately, already knowing what the team are capable of doing, the fact that they do it is pretty mundane which detracts from the plausibility.
Liked this book, perhaps a little less than Guns of Navarone.
This book was a lot more like the movie Where Eagles Dare (which I shall have to look for in book form to see how that is).
Lots of twists and turns and secrets kept from the reader, and not a few of these put in perhaps just for the sake of being a twist and not really propelling the story any.One other commentor said the banter between the main characters got a little much in this book, and I can see what they mean.
A sequel to MacLean's earlier novel The Guns of Navarone, this book sees Mallory, Andrea and Miller forming a new commando team consisting of Royal Marines Reynolds, Groves and Sanders, and heading to war-torn Yugoslavia to help the partisan forces of General Vukalovic overcome the superior German armored forces, and also to rescue some British officers being held prisoner by the Germans.
Along the way, the group meets a blind musician named Petar and his sister Maria, and find themselves up against German officer Captain Neufeld and his bloodthirsty, brutish ally, the Cetnik leader Captain Droshny.
There's a lot of good action in this.
This book picks up right where Guns of Navarone leaves off, I mean they are not even off the boat and Jensen has another assignment for them.
Front and center we still have Mallory, Andrea and Miller, plus additional characters, some good, some bad, MacLean uses them all to take us on a breathtaking journey into the rugged Yugoslavian mountains.
One scene in the book is priceless, Maria: "leave me," she said.
"Please leave me.""Out of the question,"Andrea said firmly.
"Maria would never forgive me.""Maria?""Not you."Andrea lifted her on to his back and wound her arms around his neck.
It has been over ten years since I read MacLean's masterpiece, "The Guns of Navarone", but this novel picks up instantly after the events in that novel.
Now, while I reflect upon it, "Guns" was one of my favorite war novels of all time.
"Force 10" did not have the same intensity, and was at times hard to follow.
The author intentionally keeps us in the dark about what the infamous Captain Mallory and his crew have to do, but he does it so often with so many twists, that I got bogged down early on in the novel.
Once Mallory's mission became clear, the action picked up, and the shooting began in earnest.
This book is a far cry from the movie of the same name, and that is no disrespect.
Where the movie is an effortless, entertaining and character-driven war story, the book is an intelligent and suspenseful spy-novel.
It is written thoughtfully and importantly, and has quite a few twists and turns in store for you, so stay on your toes for this one.
With great attention to detail and a laundry list of events and characters to keep track of, this is a great read for "active readers", although people looking for something light and entertaining may find it frustrating.

Doesn't resemble the 1970's film version all that much.
I found the plot overly complex.
I just couldn't believe they could be that lucky or that smart (or their intelligence was flawless.) And, the whole plot timing was just too close.
I enjoyed it, but the author just went too far, I think.
Not sure if our friends jumped the shark or not, but it is a question.
Funny though, I keep going back to revisit these classics from my childhood, and he did get quite a few books on to the big screen, so hats off to the author.
Found this book extremely confusing the first time I read it because, silly me, I thought it was a sequel to "The Guns of Navarone" ... it's actually a sequel to the movie version of "Guns" and has characters from the film that never appeared in (or, in one bizarre case, had their gender changed!) the original novel. Even after eventually seeing the movie and then re-reading this book I still found this a very poor follow-up ... I really should get rid of my copy as bookcase space is too precious to be wasted on bad books.
It threw me a bit off in the first couple of chapters, because I didn't know there had been changes made in the plot of guns of navarone in its movie which were adopted into this book.Thank god, the changes were not very much relevant to the plot of this one.The story stelling is great. I was kind of cheering when the lancasters were bombing the plywood tanks, fooling Zimmermann and then when Petar unsheaths his gun from the guitar, he always carries.... just wow!! :D
Ok, this book is based partly on the movie and NOT on the preceeding book. However, that didn't stop me from enjoying it anyway.I was living in Greece when I found Guns of Navarone and then Force 10, so I really enjoyed the description of the countryside, the islands and the people. A good read, and yes, if you get the chance, you should see the movie. It was actually a fairly decent job on the movie, unlike most, so I can give it a couple of thumbs up.
The action follows straight on from "The Guns of Navarone". Mallory, Miller & Andrea barely have time to recover before they are sent off to Yugoslavia to try to assist the anti-German forces and force the Germans to either withdraw or commit more troops from Italy. An incredibly fast-paced story. I guessed/remembered a couple of the major plot twists, but it was a wonderfully engrossing read.
This was a fun romp and a worthy successor to "The Guns of Navarone". As the novel reaches its climax, the mission team is separated and the narration comes in a burst of brief episodic sections that deftly ratchets up the pace of the action. A great example of controlling the pacing of a story through the structure of the narrative. A good read!
Another action packed adventure from Alistair Maclean.The sequel to The Guns of Navarone sees Mallory, Miller and Andrea packed straight off to Yugoslvia to rescue captured British troops and also help the Yugoslav forces pinned down by the Germans.The action keeps moving all through the book, with secrets within secrets leading to suspicion and mistrust within the group.
I love Alistair Maclean books. They are the best spy thrillers ever. This one is no different. It was great from beginning to the end. Mallory, Miller and Stravos are great characters. They were good in the Guns of Navarone and even better in Force 10. The book was full of surprises, twists and turns. I read this book 30 years ago and enjoyed it as much today and as back then.
Meh. Didn't really enjoy this one. Those Dam Partisans. That Dam Mallory. Those Dam Cetniks. Other than the characters of Andrea and Miller, this book was kind of a downer and definitely not one I'd bother to keep or reread.
Another Great Read by a Great Author... Again, I read this some 25 years ago & it was great then as it was again... I'd like to see this done in a new movie with the same cast for the previous book & movie !!!
Sequel to Guns of Navarone. The intrepid trio cannot rest because another high stakes mission is thrust their way. Not as good as some of the other MacLean's in terms of twists and turns, but it is still an action-packed thriller that keeps you hanging to the edge of your seat.
I liked the Guns of Navarone better but this was still a good read. I thought that the ending was a little rushed and I didn't like how all of the new people got blown away. But it was fun and action packed. When I had time to read I couldn't put the book down.
