https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5827338-american-indian-fairy-tales
American Indian fairy tales = North American Indian tales, William Trowbridge Larned تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه نوامبر سال 2002 میلادیعنوان: افسانه های سرخپوستان آمریکا ؛ نویسنده: ویلیام تروبریج لرند؛ تصویرگر: جان ری؛ مترجم: سروناز صفوی؛ تهران، هرمس، 1380، در 137 ص؛ شابک: 9643630404؛ فروست: افسانه ملل؛ چاپ دوم 1384؛ فرهنگ عامه سرخپوستان امریکای شمالی - افسانه پریان؛ قرن 20 ما. شربیانی
It is remarkable how similar these American Indian tales are to traditional European fairy tales.
Many of them could be brought under the category of fable, allegory or parable as many have a moral or lesson to live by.
Many are extremely perfervid and leave a marked impression on the reader.
This book, though relatively short (100 pages) it relates ten myths explaining everything from the creation of mountains to the changing of the seasons.
Animals are often given both speech and personalities as demure vessels to relate a story.
I enjoyed the reading of this book and think that many other readers will feel the same.
Cute stories.
Partial Reading/Rating:--Iagoo, the Story-Teller (OKAY)Shin-ge-bis Fools the North Wind (GOOD)Shin-ge-bis Fools the North Wind (cont.) (GOOD)The Little Boy and Girl in the Clouds (GOOD)The Little Boy and Girl in the Clouds (cont.)(GOOD)The Child of the Evening Star (LOVED)The Child of the Evening Star (cont.)(LOVED)The Child of the Evening Star (cont. again)(LOVED)The Child of the Evening Star (end) (LOVED)The Boy who Snared the Sun (OKAY)The Boy who Snared the Sun (cont.) (OKAY)The Boy who Snared the Sun (end) (OKAY)How the Summer Came (OKAY)How the Summer Came (cont.) (OKAY)How the Summer Came (end) (OKAY)The Fairy Bride (GOOD)The Fairy Bride (cont.) (GOOD)
I love fairy tales. Always have. It was great to be able to take a look at the fairy tales of another culture. They felt more like folk tales than fairy tales, but oh well. Some of them had moments of each, and I enjoyed the stories. It was an impulse buy, and I'm really glad that I picked it up.
its a nice and good book
If you enjoy American Indian stories, this is a nice collection. Cute, short and fun. Great to read with your children because they are fun but you can also draw some life lessons from.
I usually left the book on the shelf because it was so old and deteriorated, but I found the book on Project Gutenberg, so I finally was able to enjoy it.The art by John Rae was hard to discern sometimes because the color had begun to bleed from this 1921 edition, although it could also have been due to a lousy print job.
Although the book has been reprinted, I recommend looking it up on Project Gutenberg so that you can enjoy it with the original illustrations.
Is that common to all of humanity - that the 'ghost in the machine' is an ethereal substance, and white?Less surprisingly, lots of talking animals, and tales about when the world was new, and tales that personify things like "spring" and "the north wind."Oh yeah - there are even a couple of tales where the bad guy is vulnerable only in one part of his body - the leg and foot.These were obviously collected after Europeans had interacted with the New World*, so I don't know how much corruption had occurred to these tales (a powder horn is mentioned in one), but if there's not much, I'd love to hear theories about the commonalities of the tales from various cultures that had been out of touch for millennia.Also, they're good - it's a short audiobook (about two hours), and the stories do have that 'magic' about them that makes for a tale that stays with you for a long time.
This book offers ten Native American fairy tales on fine quality paper with excellent color illustrations by John Rae. Whether they are tales of adventure, love, or quests for glory and improvement of the tribe, they reveal basic human traits: we see our 21st century selves mirrored in recognizable behavior, from character flaws to noble sacrifice.
Contemporary readers will recognize many similar traits and personality quirks, which reveal the commonality of the human experience.
it sound like children stories and the guy who's reading also preform as his listeners are children
Great tales, with lots of imagination and parts of Indian mythology.
Well-written with lovely illustrations. Favorite stories: "Shin-ge-bis Fools the North Wind," "The Child of the Evening Star," and "Grasshopper." 3.5 stars.
3.5
one of the best fairt tales i've ever came across with
Free human-read mp3 audiobook of this book available on Project Gutenberg, here: http://www.gutenberg.org/etext/19579
Houghton 1996
Nostalgic.
