https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/804568.The_Sea_of_Adventure
Not one of her best but lovely nonetheless - kids stranded on a remote Scottish island full to the cliffs with puffins, cormorants and guillemots, as well as smugglers, secret lagoons, hidden coves, kidnappings, escapes, mysterious seaplanes, friendly animals, a talking parrot, and walks through the heather. All with lashings of ginger beer and plenty of tinned fruit and biscuits.

After an exciting start, things ease out a bit as the children journey along with their friends the isles in northern Britain.
Because bad men, we know in Enid Blyton’s books do not kill children.Valley of Adventure, Sea of Adventure and Mountain of Adventure have a good sound to them being closely associated with nature.
And we see the poetic side of Lucy-Ann. For a change, this book does not have any secret passages.
The story has fair amount of excitement.
The adventure starts earlier than the first two books and there is excitement around boat chases, hiding from enemies and escape.
Lo and behold, who should they stumble upon in these apparently remote islands, but the enemy?!As usual for Enid Blyton, a lot of the language and ideas in this story are a little outdated - although usually the girls are just as good as the boys, in this one both Lucy-Ann and Dinah take a bit of a back seat, preferring to prepare meals and make up the beds than anything else.
To be fair, this could be partly blamed on their recent measles outbreak but also those were just the general ideas in the time this was written.It's still a lovely little kids story though.
To assist their recovery after contracting measles Jack, Lucy-Ann, Philip, Dinah and Kiki set off with their friend Bill 'Smaugs' (who needs sanctuary too) to the northern isles of Scotland for much needed rest and recuperation.
They help set the story up and then come in at the end to help tidy up a few loose ends in between the children endure all the excitement and derring do.I have great affection for Kiki and Enid Blyton paints her in such a charming way.
In fact animals feature in a big way in the stories mainly through the character of Philip who has a great affinity with them usually carrying a few around his person.
THIS WAS AN WONDERFUL BOOK. BILL GOT KIDNAPPED AND THE 4 CHILDREN[ JACK, LUCY-ANN, PHILIP AND DINAH] WERE WORRIED AND TENSED LIKE ANYTHING. THEY USED TO SEARCH AND FINALLY GOT AN IDEA! READ THE BOOK FOR FURTHER DETAILS
Good pre-adventure part, with the children recovering from measles and sent on a holiday to regain their strength before returning to school (yeah, like that's going to happen in real life, but you can't blame kids for dreaming!), Bill visiting in secret while being hunted by criminals (isn't he putting the children and Mrs. Manning in danger?)...
We get the weird criminal plots and the dangerous situations characteristic of the Adventure series, and there are some very funny elements that make the story better, like the birds Puffin and Huffin, and Horace Tipperlong (aka Tripalong).Very enjoyable.
The plot is not as happening as the rest in the series but I really liked the idea of the children and Bill going off together on a boat trip.
Huffin and Puffin are hilarious too.
I remember the twinge of sadness when Bill told Lucy-Ann that they couldn't bring the puffins back with them.
I also like how plucky the children were.
"You're only kids - but you're the finest company of friends anyone could have.
I'm proud to have you for my friends." I have my eyes set on the next adventure in the series!
children leave for northern islands to recover from measles but find themselves in an adventure. The best part is when they are on Puffin island where they find 2 tame puffins who out of sheer love for children catch fishes for them. On this island they sink into a Puffin burrow and take shelter there. Guns are hidden from view in one of the many islands.
I am pretty sure that I didn’t read The Sea of Adventure as a child I certainly don’t seem to remember it. This was another fun rip roaring adventure from Enid Blyton. I think as the adventure series goes this is probably a slightly less believable premise. I am looking forward to reading the last four books in the series as I think these will be just as fun.
Great fun on the islandsThe four children, Kiki the parrot, and Bill head to the Isles off Scotland for a break to recover from the measles. Of course it's never that simple as they fall into an adventure involving gun runners. With a pair of tame puffins to keep them company.
Seri Enid Blyton ini kadang terasa membosankan, monoton, udah ketebak banget lah alurnya gimana. Di sisi lain itu bikin nagih dan... comforting. Selama baca deg-degannya cukup deg-degan seru aja, karena tahu pasti happy ending :D
Read this to my daughter after many years of reading it as a child myself and it's very funny how language has changed
Another great adventure w/the kids, Kiki & Bill. Huffin & Puffin were adorable & it really was to bad that they couldn't take them home.
Loved this! Another great installment in Blyton's Adventure series. I'd read it a long time ago but couldn't remember how it all turned out - the best kind of re-read.
When Mrs. Mannering, a widow, comes down with the measles herself, she sends the children: ages 11-14, on a birding expedition to the Scottish islands accompanied by their friend and neighbor Bill.
The children are left marooned on a remote island without a boat or any means of communication and must use their wits, and what luck offers, to find a way to rescue their friend, defeat the bad guys and find a way home.Much of the charm of this series comes from the comic relief provided by animals.
The children are accompanied by Jack’s talking parrot Kiki and Philip’s three pet rats.
These two events really shouldn't coincide, but they do, as the children's friend Bill Smugs, presumably of the Secret Service (either that or he has a VERY rich fantasy life), takes them all off for a camping and bird-watching holiday in the Hebrides.
It's all fun and games (not to mention Spam and ginger beer) until Bill goes off to the boat to transmit a message to London...and doesn't come back.In this book I really noticed the difference between these four and the seafaring children of Antonia Forest's or Arthur Ransome's books.
This book had a few five-star moments, and the chapter about the children spending the night alone in an enormous gale and thunderstorm really shows Enid Blyton at her best.
In fact, the adventure doesn't start until halfway through the novel.Before re-reading it, the only thing I really remembered about this book was Huffin and Puffin - well worth having as guest animal companions.
They are utterly pointless, and in such an unsuitable environment; this is the first (and only?) time Philip has taken an animal well away from its natural habitat, which I feel is out of character for him.The Valley Of Adventure was always going to be a tough act to follow.

Re-read.
The four children — Philip, Dinah, Jack, and Lucy-Ann, are recovering from the measles; and although term is starting, the doctor insists upon a vacation first.
And who will accompany them?
Philip and Dinah's mother can't since she has taken on a new commission, but the children balk at the idea of a governess.
Then their old friend Bill appears, with the news that he has to disappear for awhile.
To the sea of Scotland, swarming with birds?
A perfect solution — or so it seems, until they land smack dab in the middle of trouble, in the Sea of Adventure.
The sea north of Scotland is full of little islands, and many of them have huge bird colonies. Perfect for the four children until they fall afoul of gunrunners. A pair of puffins adopts them and helps them rescue Bill this time, instead of Bill rescuing them.Kiki's funny sayings sometimes fit the situation better than they probably would in real life, but all the rest of these animal characters behave perfectly naturally. Huffin and Puffin have no idea they are helping save our adventurers, which makes them both believable and funny.
Another great book in the Adventure series. Full of mystery, but also fun. I thought the description of the "bird" islands was great. But I also thought the actions of the children horrifying in spots. A little like Lord of the Flies if you ask me. The kids really get into a jam in this book where desperate times call for desperate measures and you are kept on edge wondering if they will make it. My 11 year old son and I were riveted to this book as we read it together.. A pleasure to read!
One of the best of the Adventure Series, and an exciting read for young children and - ahem - dad's of young children. Compared to the others in the series, this was more overt adventure with the threat of death and violence more to the fore, even guns being fired and so on. Felt slightly more grown up. I read the Kindle version and there were quite a few typos, which was annoying as I was reading this out loud as a bedtime read. I'm sure they weren't in the paperback version.
I still love the adventure series by Enid Blyton. I know that many people feel that her work is very dated and does not conform to modern day political correctness. Still the character traits that her main characters always have such as loyalty and honesty are still laudable even today.This is as usual a story of children falling into an adventure and triumphing over the bad guys, the criminals that break the law. With a few fights, trials and rescues, this is still a good yarn.
Halfway through the Adventure Series once more!Again I am there with the children on another hair raising adventure, I am one of them!I remember looking for such excitement as this as a child, but it wasn't to be unless I hopped on my bike and off to the library in search of Enid Blyton.I loved being stranded on the island with Huffin and Puffin, entangled with "the bad guys" and it all working out in the end, as it should.I guess it's on to The Mountain of Adventure now!
Another great adventure with Jack, Lucy-Ann, Dinah, Philipp and their parrot Kiki. This time they visit the Shetland Islands with their friend Bill who works as an under cover agent and pulls the children into another dangerous adventure.It's too bad that the generation of children nowadays did not grew up with such wonderful childrens books!Enid Blyton books are famous all over Europe and India and still sell better than "Harry Potter". Give it a try!
Enid Blyton is an amazing childrens author, bestselling in the world. Although almost undiscovered by Americans.This series (The Adventure Series is 8 books long) Features 4 friends who fall into adventures with counterfeiters, gunrunners, treasure hunters and the like. Jack, Philip, Diana, and Lucy-Anne and their crazy talking parrot, KIKI, are a lot of fun to follow through their adventures... This series is top notch reading... introduce your children to Enid Blyton today!
I read this because Enid Blyton is a favorite of several U. K. Authors. I didn't love it but I admired the way the kids took care of themselves when the strange man who'd been taking of them disappeared. And I also liked Kiki the parrot and all the buttered biscuits they ate. Sounds like my kind of diet--not the parrot, just the buttered biscuits!
This is the fourth part of adventure series. In this part the four children were attacked my measles in the beginning. Then with their mother's permission they with Bill goes to Northern islands. First they visit a Puffin island and their adventure starts from there. Bill was kidnapped by his enemy and the four children would rescue him. This book is really good. I liked it.
As with the other two books in the series I've read recently, this is another exciting, fun story for kids. And if, like me, there's still a bit of the kid left inside your middle-aged exterior, then rereading any of these 'Adventure' books will be a simple pleasure that'll remind you why Enid Blyton remains so popular.
