https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33549.The_Shrinking_Man
Posted at Shelf Inflicted After reading about white male privilege, racial oppression, and gender inequality, I found it interesting that I chose to read a book about a man who is losing his height at nearly an inch per week.
Not only is he greatly inconvenienced because he can't reach high shelves, he is also losing his power and significance as a man and a human being and reduced to merely survival.
The ending is sad and surprisingly hopeful.
There was so much tension in this story that I wasn’t sure who or what would die at the end.
Richard Matheson took the platform afforded him by his tremendous skill as a writer and used it as a platform to confront a serious and important issue that had been kept hidden for too long....MALE SHRINKAGE Here was a man that was WAY ahead of his time. Not only was he a gifted writer with an amazing and wide-ranging imagination, but he was also someone who wasn’t afraid to tackle tough and controversial social issues. From general topics like race relations, war and politics to deeply persona
Nevertheless, despite not having the scientific research available and despite the conservative time in which this story was written, Matheson managed to write what is arguably the most in depth and thoughtful discussion of male shrinkage that has ever been written.
Of course, given the social mores of his time, Matheson was forced to disguise the central theme of his story by having his plot revolve around the shrinking of the main character’s ENTIRE body.
The great environmental message about how he comes to shrink through massive, random exposure to radiation & a pesticide.The most exciting thread is his struggle in the basement as he shrinks from 1" down even further.
Yet he struggles on to escape from the basement prison.In between these battles & bouts of despair, Carey remembers the earlier part of his shrinking.
There he struggled with the loss of his family as his decreasing size alienates them.
Best of all, he keeps us in suspense as to how they lost him to the basement & we don't find out until the very end.And then there is the end.
A Timeless novel, Matheson is such a great writer he writes with many themes undead, ghosts, haunted houses , shrinking man and human endeavors, I only wish he had written more novels, this story is of the highest caliber! This is a story of survival for one man and his emotional and psychological journey as life slips away from beneath his feet Inch by Inch literally. We follow his realization and self-discovery with this fate put before him. "He looked at her full body again, feeling breath ca
This is a story of survival for one man and his emotional and psychological journey as life slips away from beneath his feet Inch by Inch literally.
At least then he'd be himself and, although she could watch him with pity and terror, at least she would be watching the man she knew.
This was worse, far worse.""Odd that after all the moments of abject terror he had suffered contemplating the end of his existence, this night - he felt no terror at all.
At a point without hope he had found contentment.
Considering this is a Richard Matheson book, an author who is probably best known for his horror stories, I have initial expectations that this was going to be a scary venture in the same manner as Hell House was when I saw the movie as a child and later on read the book.
Scott may be shrinking into a size that's even below his kid daughter, but he still has the same needs and entitlement as any grown man does--and the harrowing and pitiful ways he tries to hold onto these things but fail are almost hard to read for me.Matheson needs to be commended for his clear-cut prowess as he delicately approached the writing of this story with such an earnest tone even though it has an absurd premise.

ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature.Every day Scott Carey is getting shorter by 1/7 of an inch.
Will the spider get him?Readers who are expecting a horror-adventure story will be pleased with Richard Matheson's The Incredible Shrinking Man because there's plenty of scary excitement.
That story by itself is fun and fascinating.But it's the rest of the story -- the flashbacks, marked with Scott's height as he continues to shrink -- that make The Incredible Shrinking Man such an excellent book.
This is the time when the writer describes of what the protagonist has to face during the period of his shrinkage: implications on his social and family life, the problems that he faces with his inability to use his sexual drive and the way he has to cope with it, the loss of authority of fatherhood to his daughter and in turn losing her respect, the insanity of going through a celebrity status, his thoughts on hopes of survivalism, questions on whether human life is valuable, purposeful and meaningful at such a small scale, etc.
Tre millimetri in una cantina (per tacer del ragno)Alla mia cagnolina sarebbe piaciuto questo libro.
Passi gli effetti speciali caserecci, che secondo me hanno sempre un certo fascino, quello che manca è l’anabasi del protagonista verso la consapevolezza di sé, una cosa millimetrica, un puntino nell’universo, ma sempre essere pensante e dotato di intelligenza.
Non credo si possa parlare di spoiler se vi passo sottobanco lo screen, che oltretutto in inglese suona molto meglio che in italiano, ma vi consiglio comunque di non guardare se non avete ancora aperto il libro.
Early on, Matheson goes into great detail regarding just how much work it takes for Scott to survive.And he continues with that level of detail for the rest of the book.If you want to talk about every single foothold this tiny man has to use in climbing a chair 100x his size, great—that’ll really help the reader realize just how small Scott is.
It’s NOT ENJOYABLE.Or maybe this was some sort of Matheson meta-brilliance—Scott Carey feels like there’s no hope and that his world will never get better, and that’s the exact same feeling I got about myself while reading the book.
El mérito de Matheson radica en hacer creíble una historia a todas luces fantástica, la de un hombre que va menguando día a día; y lo hace tan bien que sufres con el protagonista y con todos los obstáculos y padecimientos por los que pasa, en una gran labor por parte de Matheson en la construcción psicológica del personaje.La historia comienza con una especie de nube radiactiva (un recurso muy de moda en los años 50 del siglo pasado; pero no se trata de una novela de ciencia ficción, sino más bien de una obra enmarcada en el fantástico) que baña a Scott Carey.
Gran relato, donde Matheson especula sobre un futuro distópico, en el que la sociedad ha decidido terminar con los viejos, teniendo que pasar por una prueba para saber la condición en la que se encuentran.
This is a story of survival for one man in this emotional and psychological journey as life slips away from beneath his feet Inch by Inch literally.
At least then he'd be himself and, although she could watch him with pity and terror, at least she would be watching the man she knew.
This was worse, far worse.""Odd that after all the moments of abject terror he had suffered contemplating the end of his existence, this night - he felt no terror at all.
At a point without hope he had found contentment.
A BELATED TRIBUTE Richard Matheson was my Ray Bradbury, the gateway drug to science fiction books as a teenager. I started with his short stories, probably his best and most consistent terrain, marked by no frills narrative, emotional honesty and often a twisting of the knife. Not long after I read I Am Legend, which is sort of the Velvet Underground of vampire novels, in that it influenced countless other properties many of which no doubt made more money than the original ever did. It’s a ridi
He wrote the scripts for several of the Roger Corman adaptations of Edgar Allen Poe, which managed both to be not remotely faithful to the original stories, yet somehow capture much of the mordant gloom of Poe. He wrote the teleplay for the first TV movie of Kolchak: The Night Stalker, a '70s one-season monster-of-the-week wonder that itself would later be one of the main inspirations for The X Files.
5. The Matheson ZoneMatheson wrote I think 15 episodes of The Twilight Zone, and contributed some of its best moments.
(Note—Netflix has it.) So this cult favorite was a TV movie anthology from 1975, adapting three Matheson short stories (The Likeness of Julie; Therese; Prey), all starring Karen Black.
For a moment the entire grotesque spectacle of it swept over him forcibly, the insanity of a world where he could be killed trying to climb to the top of a table that any normal man could lift and carry with one hand. The Shrinking Man. Yeah, the title says it all. What a bold thing it was to write this story at a time when man was the undeniable cornerstone of every home! And what irony to read it today when economic difficulties and rapid social changes have reduced many men to inert members
The Shrinking Man. Yeah, the title says it all.
What a bold thing it was to write this story at a time when man was the undeniable cornerstone of every home!
Story-wise, it's Matheson.
The plot is gripping, while all the symbolic elements contribute to making this an all-time classic.
The reader follows the (not so likeable) hero in his struggle to survive after a fluke accident caused his body to gradually shrink day by day.
Overall, a fast and enjoyable read like only Matheson knew how to deliver.
My expectations were too high for this.
This collection looks like two separate works put together--the short novel "The Incredible Shrinking Man" and a set of short stories by Matheson.
"The Incredible Shrinking Man"It's interesting to come to a Matheson novel after finishing the latest Stephen King short story collection.
But as the novel progresses, Scott is slowly seen as less and less of a man as he shrinks.
I am not sure if this was any influence on "Click," but it's fascinating to read how Matheson works with the same concept--and might I say, actually does it a lot better.My favorite two stories in the collection are among the shorter.
A slightly silly sounding premise but it works out rather well. It has both dark moments and humour throughout, with an ending that I didn't predict.
The shrinking man of the title is Scott, who is shrinking exactly 1/7 of an inch every day.
Exactly how he got to be this size is shown through a series of flashbacks.In a way, it's almost like two books.
If the book were entirely like the "present day" sections, I wouldn't have liked it all that much.
But the flashbacks are far better, and give a much more detailed idea of what the shrinking process must have been like for him.
These are the best written parts of the book, and I found myself tuning out during the present day sections.
And a fair portion of that nitrogen is a bound up in your DNA, so wouldn't loosing nitrogen cause a breakdown in your DNA?
Ok, maybe I'm wrong about that bit, but how can you continually loose 1/7 of an inch a day?
Wouldn't you eventually run out of nitrogen to loose?
How does loosing nitrogen result in continual shrinking?
I guess you only loose nitrogen at night.Or, to talk about something else, how DO you squeeze a drinkable drop of water out of a sponge when you're 2/7 of an inch tall?
The Incredible Shrinking Man: A beautiful psychological study of masculinityEvery day Scott Carey is getting shorter by 1/7 of an inch.
Now Scott is only one inch tall and he is trapped in the cellar of his family’s rented home with a stale piece of bread, an out-of-reach box of crackers, a sponge, a garden hose, a water heater, and a black widow spider.
And in seven more days, he’ll be gone.Well, that’s enough to make many readers want to hear Scott’s story.
Will the spider get him?Readers who are expecting a horror-adventure story will be pleased with Richard Matheson’s ...
Non fa per meIl protagonista di questo romanzo di fantascienza è condannato a rimpicciolire di tre millimetri ogni giorno.Sempre più piccolo, sempre più piccolo.
Che ho passato 250 pagine a pensare che non mi interessasse granché sapere ciò che poteva succedere.Il libro non è riuscito a coinvolgermi, una lotta per la sopravvivenza che mi ha annoiato.
Mi ha ricordato "Non conosco il tuo nome", dove il protagonista per una strana malattia sconosciuta non poteva evitare di camminare tutto il giorno.
Non so.
A me questa ha lasciato indifferente.Salvo del libro le ultime due pagine, di vera fantascienza.
Una stella per pagina.
Not impressed. The main character, Scott Carey, is whiney and lacks motivation for doing anything. His main nemesis, the spider, was more conceptual, than real, with only one short battle. The secondary characters were weak and mostly non-existent. His wife, child, even the Tom Thumb character at the circus were boring. It took more than half of the book to explain why he was shrinking an inch per day, and then you were left hanging at the end. Skip it.
Great, scary little book. Quite an ordeal, survival in a world not made for your new size and a giant spider making your attempt a living hell. The end of the book left me with a different perspective on my surrounding world and my life within it. Pretty cool stuff.
He whined and raged and generally acted like a spoiled baby, and then got all lusty after a rather weird 16 year old babysitter and acted exceedingly pervy about her.
I was also quite tired of hearing about how Carey no longer felt like a “real man” anymore.
The novel could have been so much better without that aspect of it in there.So I’m giving this novel three stars, and yet excusing Matheson of his transgression in writing this.
I’m pretty sure his other novels are better......
The science behind his affliction is brushed over about two thirds of the way through the story, because by the time we meet Scott, he is past caring about what caused him to shrink, and is predisposed with how to survive as a man less than one inch tall.
Matheson's descriptions of Carey's environments are certainly captivating, but I ultimately found my attention wandering during the sections where Scott is a fraction of an inch tall and is living in the cellar.
However it is certainly clear how it became renowned as such a classic science fiction work, even if it isn't quite as good as I Am Legend, Matheson's other big novel.
This is a grim story that explores a man’s desire to live despite the inevitable end he faces as a shrinking man.
As he shrinks, the protagonist, Scott, loses more and more of his power, being victimized by teenage bullies, his own daughter, and ultimately a spider.
I thought the story was fascinating and Matheson’s descriptions are so realistic and logical it’s easy to accept Scott’s plight.
My only issue with “The Incredible Shrinking Man” is that Scott is an incredibly unlikable character who treats his wife, his daughter, and others with disrespect.
I simply found it difficult to overlook Scott’s jerky misogyny.
I love this book, I am now reading it for the third time. A man exposed to a toxic substance starts shrinking. It's very believable, all the thoughts and feelings you would experience, how it changes relationships with wife and children, the dangers that exist as each day you become smaller.I love the ending. No, I won't tell you how it ends.
A masterpiece. I lack the words to tell you how good this novel is. It would be best if you read it yourself.
Could have been shorter.
Most of the story takes place with Carey being, like, smaller than an inch - and still decreasing - in the cellar.
They way that Scott becomes more petulant and argumentative as he gets smaller, mimicking that of a child in which he resembles in size, is very funny and cleverly done.
I was very impressed with the movie, and was sad that the original book didn’t include the part when the cat tries to get him in the doll house.
But nevertheless, Matheson’s book is definitely one worth reading.
