https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1091470.Journey_s_End
There is only one set – the inside of a British dugout – and we are not allowed out of it for the duration of the play, watching the interactions between Captain Stanhope and his four officers as a major German attack approaches.All of them deal with the tension in their own ways – Stanhope self-medicates with whisky; Osborne, his second in command, is calm and stoical; Hibbert attempts to feign a debilitating ‘neuralgia’; and Trotter concentrates on enjoying his food to the fullest.The newest arrival, Raleigh, knew Stanhope at school (where he was ‘skipper of rugger at Barford, and kept wicket for the eleven’); he has pulled strings to be in his boyhood hero's company, and through him we see the changes that a year on the Western Front has wrought on Stanhope.In its setting, and in the dynamic of its characters, you can see this play standing squarely behind almost every televisual and film representation of the trenches ever since.
However, the English writer was best known for his play Journey's End, which was based on his experiences as an army officer in the First World War.A cover of Sherriff's "Journey's End" shows soldiers holding rifles fixed with bayonets inside a trench.
RALEIGH: It all seems rather – silly, doesn’t it?OSBORNE: It does rather.”Two German soldiers and their mule wearing gas masks in World War One, 1916.
The cover of the book that I own shows the poster for the 1929 Savoy Theatre production of Journey’s End. An officer can be seen climbing the steps leading to a trench from the dugout.A flyer for a classic play that was running in Ypres, Belgium.A film based on the book was made in 1976.
"Journey's End" - R.C. Sherriff’s short (96 page), 1928 play about a group of officers in the trenches shortly before a German offensive - is very much of its time, and yet remains profoundly moving.R.C. Sherriff wrote the play based on his own experiences, and appears to have no particular axe to grind - neither anti-war, nor patriotic - with its primary focus on the toll placed on the young officers and the working class soldiers thrown into such a horrific situation.18 year old, Second Lieutenant Raleigh is the new arrival in the company commanded by his former schoolboy hero, Captain Stanhope.
“You must always think of it like that if you can. Think of it as – as romantic. It helps.” This review is going to be a quick one because it’s impossible to really go into depth without spoiling the story.I don’t normally read plays because they seem to unleash a wave of high school-related memories and trying to think of quotes and line numbers and acts and basically getting myself into a tizzy. But I love the theatre and I’ve wanted to read Journey’s End for a while now because I’ve heard it
This review is going to be a quick one because it’s impossible to really go into depth without spoiling the story.I don’t normally read plays because they seem to unleash a wave of high school-related memories and trying to think of quotes and line numbers and acts and basically getting myself into a tizzy.
Instead of writing a play that is about the combat, Sherriff chose to focus on the men and their feelings.
And I think it’s this subtlety that made the final scene all the more haunting.
Finally when actor Laurence Olivier took the lead, the play became popular.
This is a play in three acts - totally presented by male characters.
Olivier's character, Captain Stanhope, is leading his men in battle.
Stanhope is a born leader, he does not instruct, he leads.
One of the relieving soldiers is Raleigh, a younger classmate of Stanhope.
A classmate that idolizes Stanhope.
That only goes to tell me that this particular book has had few readers.
Reminiscent of the early writing of this play, some really good literature goes unknown.
The talents of this author, having written many other plays, was sadly extinguished in Nov 1975.
Sherriff eloquently brings forward a strange blend of the British class system superimposed on three days of the Great War. The characters are colorful and well depicted so I found myself enjoying the drama through their eyes.
I felt like a fly on the wall as Sherriff's words transported me to the bunker and a few days of the lives of these men.
Highly recommended if you like British drama or are drawn to the world of the Great War. It would be worthwhile watching a live performance of the play.
Filling a gap in my reading. Kept falling prey to the idea that it was rather clichéd but of course it is those, Blackadder Goes Forth etc, which are guilty of this. Some plays do not make for good reading... this isn't one of them and when combined with the fact that it was based on the author's own experiences it's a very impressive piece of work. I had been intending to read it since becoming aware that "I" in Withnail and I had his haircut for a part in a production of it.
Journey’s End  (1928) is a powerful play and an unusual take on the First World War.The conceit is simple. In 1918 a group of British officers wait in an underground shelter for the German army to begin what was then the largest military offensive in human history. Two men who knew each other as friends before the war find their relationship, and their selves, radically altered. An older man tries to support both of them as they struggle with the war and each other. At no point do we leave the
In 1918 a group of British officers wait in an underground shelter for the German army to begin what was then the largest military offensive in human history.
As a WWI work, Journey’s End depicting some key details.
And some of the plot involves planning for familiar military details, such as launching a raid across no man's land and preparing for a major attack.
They are committed to the war, even if the issues (German aggression, etc) never really appear.
I look forward to it, as well as hoping to see Journey’s End on stage at some point.(Also posted to Roads)
A modern movie of Journey's End has just been released in the UK and I was recently privileged to view, quite frankly I was astounded by what I saw, so moved by this sober and thoughtful interpretation that I decided to acquire and read the original dramatic play published in 1928 by R C Sherriff who based his novel on his own experiences of life (if we can call it that) in the trenches of Northern France during the spring of 1918.At the start of world war 1 there appeared to be no shortage of young men following the advice from Lord Kitchener..."Your country needs you" These young romantic conscripts happily boarded troop trains heading for the trenches of St Quentin in northern France in order to fight for king and country.
These characters could easily have become mere caricatures of certain hackneyed types, but in Sherriff's capable hands they become inherently vulnerable people facing inhuman situations: Hibbert -- a basically good man exhibiting latent cowardly tendencies and ready to use a non-existent case of neuralgia as a passport home; Trotter -- overweight and jolly, and always ready with a humorous (or cheesy) interjection; Osborne -- the level-headed second-in-command, eager to smooth away any interpersonal rough edges and "Uncle" to all; Raleigh -- the eighteen-year-old novice unaccustomed to front line conditions but keen to do his duty; and Stanhope -- the weary young commander who is on the verge of becoming an alcoholic and headed for a complete nervous collapse.
I read this many years ago, but just noticed they have recently made it into a movie , so I decided to revisit it.
It is war itself and the horror and total futility of it all.
As always when I read something like this about any war, I find myself contemplating two major questions.
The first is about how on earth that particular war started.
The second, and equally perplexing question, is one of who actually won.
Both of these questions were easy for me to answer all those years ago, but that is no longer the case.
Having studied this play at school when I was fifteen, I'm now gearing up to teach it to my own students.
But once you get past this (and remember it was written in the twenties), it's a play full of drama and a study of the British "stiff upper lip".
They rarely talk about the reality of the war they're in (and why would you?), preferring to talk about food, rugby or life at home.
It's also interesting to see how else the characters cope with the war: Stanhope drinks, Trotter eats, Raleigh has a rose-tinted view of everything.
I had watched the 2017 movie adaption with Sam Clafin and Asa Butterfield before reading the play so I knew what was going to happen.
It's very moving.The play is set three days before the Spring Offensive ('Operation Michael') where the Germans advanced from the Hindenburg line, on the Western Front, with the aims to break Allied lines and gain as much land as possible.
It's an anti-war play, and you feel it's message by the end, because you feel that the war was pointless/useless.I really enjoyed reading the play.
A very poignant play set in the trenches of the First World War. A new young officer, Raleigh, arrives at the front line in 1918, straight from school.
He’s managed to get himself posted under the command of Dennis Stanhope, who was a family friend, a few years older, and Raleigh’s hero growing up.
But Stanhope is crumbling under the pressure of long years of war, and the last thing he wants is someone whose innocence and inevitable disillusionment will tug at his heart in the way Raleigh does.
The play was first performed in 1928 with a then-unknown Laurence Olivier as Stanhope.
I accidentally spoiled the ending for myself by reading the foreword but my foresight didn't alter my perception of the play at all.
That meant his tragic death in the final scene was hard to handle, but I wouldn't have had it any other way.
Seeing as the play is set against a World War One backdrop I expected blood, guts and the despicable trench conditions but what I didn't expect were the moments of humour.
Osborne's death was painful too, if only because I saw it coming.
No playwright would leave his most sympathetic characters alive in a narrative about the First World War.
Warning: if you are looking for tales of heroism, sound battle strategies and the underlying theme of how sweet and noble it is to die for one's country, then this is not the book for you.But if you are looking for the more human side of war: the fears, the tension, the friendships and how much the front can change a man, then you would do well to give this play a try.
Not my favourite book but I've read it so many times at college and high school that I can't help but love some of the characters; Osborne feels like my very own Uncle... :')
All I can say is that if one of my non-reader friends really likes this play then that is saying something.
I also liked the story because whilst there was nothing going on in the way of action inside the trenches, it was very character driven.
Their interactions prove the volatility of war and how it affects their inter-personal relationships.
I might feel devastated by the ending but that was the reality and during and even after 1914-18, many families were living, coping, and struggling with the cost of war.
In that respect my personal feelings in regards to this play are inconsequential.
3.5 stars. I did enjoy it, but I think mainly because it was for school rather than my own idea. Raleigh's relationship with Stanhope towards the end of the book was possibly the most enjoyable part of the whole thing. Not usually my cup of tea, but is definitely a book I'm glad I read.
I was assigned this book in preparation for Literature IGCSE (Though in the end I decided not take the exam, but I did not regret having Literature as a subject).Journey's End let us glimpse at the life in the trenches--and it was horrifying.
I love the idea that it easily takes us to the battlefield, watching all the horrible things that we never face in our lives.
This, combined with the language the author uses (which I have very difficult time understanding) made the book a little off.
Maybe it was just the language back in the war days, but overall it was an okay read.
I enjoyed the read; which was done as a class together, studying for our AS English Literature.
Better than the other play we read and of course, much more powerful on stage.
I detested having to pronounce Raleigh as 'Rawley'.It was a pleasant surprise to find that I liked this book.
The ending is very powerful too with the silence after the gun-shots.
In the production I saw, the audience stood with them for a minute's silence.I just didn't like how Raleigh died.
On paper it worked, but on the stage it was difficult to connect and it seemed very unrealistic.
In Spring of 1918, a handful of British officers rooted in a trench while awaiting an offensive by the Boche share a lifetime of dreams, fears, and conflicted emotions during 48 hours preceding a fateful attack.
While there are break injections of wry humor, the mood is decisively somber, and poignant interludes recalling happier times are especially painful to read.
As the story moves to its grim conclusion, it forces readers to consider the absurdity of military campaigns conceived by leaders lacking the ability to value human life against the prospect of holding the line or potentially gaining intelligence.
I absolutely love this book. This is a type of play I'll die to see. This left me into tears, because Osbourne and Raileigh are my two favorite characters in the story and they both die. This book really shows World War I in detail. It really shows the lives in the trenches, how hard and they should be strategic all the time. Stanhope is the commander and I don't blame him for drinking too much because 90% of the commanders (in France and Britain) were drunk almost everyday. Truly this is a marvelous book. Really enjoyed it.
So yes, you've heard this story before and, yes, you know where it is going but there is no denying the power of a play that was written by a man who experienced this monstrous war first hand; who knew, intimately, the claustrophobia, the intolerable waiting, the sudden burst of action and the catastrophic consequences for the living and the dead.
Some may find it tedious that the set never alters from the dugout but for me this was definitely to the play's advantage because it meant maximum focus was placed on character.
It's small scenes like these that become the most powerful in this play because it's the sheer subtlety of dialogue that is enough to render the futility of war without seeing the visual horrors we are perhaps more accustomed to in other portrayals of conflict.Perhaps most significant though is that very little attention is paid to the fact that this is a British Infantry Company.
Eventually, a very young Lawrence Olivier would originate the role of Stanhope in 1927 (a performance I can only wish I had seen,) and the play generated quite praise until the 1950's.
Stanhope is a drunkard, but he leads his men decently, embodying the ravages idealized youth of his generation.
Both men are essentially viewed through the eyes of young Raleigh, a former classmate of Stanhope's, and the younger brother of his sweetheart Margaret.
The final moments of the story are unapologetic (view spoiler)[as they die, one by one, in the trench during a German attack.
The Hopkins Manuscript was a wonderful book because the world was ending and all we had as a guide was a insignificant, puffed-up, chicken-fancier from Hampshire.
Journey’s End sort of does the opposite, instead of world-shattering horror through blinkered eyes, we see with great clarity what such an event does to someone ordinary - what’s more it was a cataclysm Sherriff had lived.Stanhope is fairly ordinary.
We don’t know exactly what he has seen and done, but it’s obvious that he has been destroyed emotionally and spiritually by being in charge of his men for a period of less than a year (a rise through the ranks probably caused by terrible events).
I first picked this book up when I was taking a World War I literature course in uni and I "read" it, meaning I pretended to skim it and definitely didn't understand it.
But if you do know about World War I or don't mind not understanding certain references to events and other nuances, then this is still a very emotional play about the limit to a man's grief and how war intersects with this.
I can also understand why this play had such a big impact during its first production because it shatters the myth of a glamorous war and idealized soldiers.
I definitely enjoyed this play a lot more after I read it again.
From the start I thought Sheriff's work to be a short story but was surprised to find it to be an actually play!
Though I wanted for them to reconcile and backtrack to their younger years, the war was on and as Sheriff so brilliantly wrote "do you think there's no limit to what man can bear…" Stanhope's realistical yet darkened view of life in the trenches was that of any military man: you can't relive the past.
Being in the military myself I can sympathize with Stanhope all the more.

