https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40470.Cities_of_the_Plain
It's actually harder to write like that than you think.I bet.Was it better than the first two, the first two books I mean?No.Why?I thought the second book was better.The author shifted in his seat and lit a cigarette and picked musingly at a fingernail with a jag in it.
The author asked, Did you like the whore?She was young.Yes.You made her sound pretty.Yes.I figure I wouldn't want to marry a whore.The others tried to stop him.But they didn't.No.I don't think I would have died for her.You aint John Grady.No sir.Would you recommend Cities of the Plains to your friends?
The Border Trilogy – Part 3 of 3In this final novel of The Border Trilogy, both John Grady Cole and Billy Parham are working at Mac Ranch, owned by a fellow named McGovern.
John Grady is once again madly in love – this time with a young Mexican prostitute just a short (and very expensive) trip across the border.
As always with Cormac McCarthy’s novels, there is much more substance than what meets the eye if the reader is willing to follow the pace Mr. McCarthy sets.As with the other two books in this Trilogy, I enjoyed this novel immensely and I would recommend this Trilogy to people who enjoy well-crafted stories, and authentic characters.
Though McCarthy's books always leave me reeling, this one carried much emotional weight in both of its "endings." I still run some of Billy's last words through my head, and think of the power this story holds.Highly recommended, though if you're going to read this it all, read the first two first.
(For reference, my favorite of the trilogy was The Crossing, followed by Cities of the Plain, then All the Pretty Horses--though each book is a masterpiece in itself.)--- ---Some select quotes, ordered they themselves tell a story:--- ---"A man is always right to pursue the thing he loves." (199)"a thing once set in motion has no ending in this world until the last witness has passed" (205)"there are no crossroads.
This series was pretty hit or miss for me. I loved the first book,  All the Pretty Horses, and then somewhat enjoyed book two,  The Crossing. Similarly, this one had parts I enjoyed and other parts I found to drag a bit. It didn't have the same emotional depth that I felt the previous books had, but it also had more action and exciting elements than book two. I'd say at least read the first book because it's a great story.
L’uomo pensa di avere il controllo del proprio destino, di poter scegliere da sé i propri orizzonti e valori, ma la sua storia è già scritta da quando è scritta la storia del mondo, perché la storia del mondo e degli uomini che lo abitano sono la medesima storia.
La sua forma è stata imposta al vuoto fin dall’inizio del mondo, e tutto ciò che si può dire di come sarebbero potute andare altrimenti le cose è senza senso, perché non si dà nessun altrimenti.
Il racconto della propria storia, la capacità di tracciare la mappa sono quello che resta alla fine, a Billy come a noi.
Really sad to finish this trilogy. It's beautiful through and through.
And only a character such as John Grady Cole, who had to accept so much of life in his first appearance in All the Pretty Horses, could have the courage and kindness necessary to push through life in this second appearance to make his dreams come true.---First Read January 2015McCarthy captures something magical in Cities of the Plain.
It is this theme, all good things..., that McCarthy writes about in Cities of the Plain, in so many words, in direct and indirect ways.It's a beautiful story that McCarthy writes, filled with the pure beauty of places that now only partially exist in our modernized world.
Já conto quase duas semanas desde que terminei a leitura do último volume da Trilogia da Fronteira.
Cheguei a pensar que não deveria ter lido este terceiro livro, e assim guardar na memória o Billy e o John eternamente jovens, puros e sonhadores.
A história do Mundo.
Que não é mais do que a história de cada um de nós...que se repetem infinitamente, até um dia chegar o Fim...
"Serei teu filho, cuidarás de mim Sê tu eu mesmo ao chegar meu fim Gela este mundo ruim Espuma o gentio brutal A história acaba assim Volta a folha, eis o final."
Solo due o tre cose, perché nulla si può aggiungere ad una tragica poesia… A fine lettura della trilogia, certo non posso dire di non essermi resa conto del continuo ricorrere del tema della ricerca di sé, del proprio posto nel mondo, del cammino, ma ciò che mi ha colpito per la sua “gentilezza” è il tema dell’ospitalità nei confronti del viandante e l’atteggiamento di facile accettazione da parte di quest’ultimo di ciò che gli viene offerto, senza convenevoli.
Grady Cole by throwing himself into a(nother) forbidden romance, this time no estancia owner's daughter but an epileptic prostitute across the border in Juarez, while Billy Parham rides the range from one end to another trying to outrun the ghosts of his past.I have to admit that for the first two hundred pages I didn't quite understand the point of even including Parham's character as, up to that point, the story focused almost entirely on Grady Cole's fantasy of saving the hooker with the heart of gold.
10/10livro e trilogiapelo caminho, descobri um novo escritor preferido
troviamo i personaggi principali della trilogia: John Grady Cole e Billy Parnham, l'unico che possa capire l'amico introverso che questa volta si innamora di una puttana epilettica e per questa arriva a un duello drammatico con il suo protettore-filosofo, Eduardo.
John Grady gli affida la sua storia, a un bambino, un piccolo ladro.
John Grady trattiene i visceri con una mano come se fossero la sua anima che vuole andare via.
quell'uomo che è tutti gli uomini, e che sta sul banco degli imputati al nostro posto, finché non arriva il nostro momento e tocca a noi starci al posto suo.
Cities of the Plain by Cormac McCarthy (1998, 292 pages within an Everyman's Library Hardcover edition of The Border Trilogy: All the Pretty Horses, The Crossing, Cities of the Plain, read Oct 4 - 18)Rating: 4.5 starsJohn Grady Cole and Billy Parham finally meet up as ranch hands on an old New Mexico ranch run a old man, Johnson.
But still I really got into this book, loved reading it, was struck by the end, and felt I had some insight into what drove McCarthy onto this trilogy.
It is difficult to know, for instance, when it was that these events took place.Why?The dream I had was on a certain night.
4.5McCarthy is a master.
My only complaint is that he hasn't written more books.
This is the third and final book of the Border trilogy, a gritty, down to earth tale of two friends, John Cole Grady and Billy Parham and their cowboying adventures between the States and the Mexican border.
This one seemed to be more dialogue driven than any of the others, the characters carrying us through the story with their voice, done so well by McCarthy that a lot of backdrop description is not needed.
well, that's why I say he is a master.
I dont think people even know it yet.The final chapter in McCarthy's Border Trilogy, Cities of the Plain brings together our two sumbitches, John Grady Cole and Billy Parham, cowboying on a ranch in border Texas in the 1950s.
The five stars is more for the trilogy as a whole, I think, but also for Cities of the Plain alone, which consumed my brain and my heart and my guts while I was reading it, reached in and twisted that strange place inside and, in at least some small way, I'm not going to be quite the same from here on out.
1933) e iniciada com ”Belos Cavalos” (1992) (5*) e ”A Travessia” (1994)(5*).”Cidades da Planície” foi inicialmente escrito como um guião cinematográfico nos anos 80, que nenhum estúdio se mostrou interessado em realizar.Devido a vicissitudes várias Cormac McCarthy acabou por desenvolver a história do fim para o início; e com base no guião para cinema escreve ”Cidades da Planície” “complementando” a trilogia, primeiro com ”Belos Cavalos" e John Grady Cole e mais tarde com ”A Travessia” e Billy Parham.É na fronteira entre o México e os Estados Unidos da América, nas cidades de Juárez e El Paso, que John Grady Cole e Billy Parham se encontram em 1952, ambos com 28 anos de idade, uma amizade genuína, dois “vaqueiros” no rancho Cross Fours, Orogrande, Novo México.
Le storie che ci parlano più intensamente hanno la capacità di sopraffare chi le racconta, e cancellare dalla memoria lui e le sue ragioni.La monumentalità di questo libro, unita a quella dei due precedenti, fanno della Trilogia della Frontiera un'opera destinata a durare nei secoli a venire, un'opera destinata ad affascinare e straziare i lettori.
Qui non è il fratello vero e proprio, ma è John Grady.
Lo stesso John che era uscito distrutto dalla sua storia con Alejandra.
Billy non è invidioso.
Tu vieni messo di fronte a parole che non sono parole ma pugni nello stomaco.
But it's much more than just a thin genre piece because of the two books that come before it and the harsh, painful lives that John and Billy have led up to this point.
And by the way, if you haven't read both of those, DO NOT read Cities of the Plain, because there is an entire layer of unspoken experiences and pains that won't make much sense, and which probably won't seem all that interesting without knowing what happened before this.
Billy Parham is probably the best non-evil non-degenerate character he's written.
This completes the Border Trilogy for me, which I've been slowly savoring for many months, sometimes in print form and sometimes audio.
For all the harshness and violence in these novels, what will stick with me are the haunting beauty and profound sadness.I happened to be reading Robert Macfarlane's fine book THE OLD WAYS at the same time.
In it he describes his sculptor friend's affection for a giant boulder as paradoxically "cold and hard and tender." It struck me that that may be an apt phrase to describe the Border Trilogy.This is incredibly affecting work.
If I had one complaint about this book, which is the freaking PIETA OF LITERATURE, okay, it's ... no, never mind. I can't complain. I just have to weep. It's perfect. Damn it's miserable.
"Pero ¿qué es tu vida?
¿acaso la ves?
Se desvanece con solo aparecer.
Momento a momento.
Hasta que se desvanece para no aparecer más.
Cuando miras al mundo, ¿existe un punto en el tiempo donde lo visto se convierte en lo recordado?
Es eso lo que no tenemos manera de mostrar.
Es eso lo que falta en nuestro mapa y en el dibujo que forma.
Y sin embargo no tenemos otra cosa."Más que historias del viejo Oeste, la trilogía es una declaración magistral sobre el ser humano.
La punta de su lápiz es como la de una flecha certera a las inquietudes del hombre.
I may be rating this book a little higher than necessary, but is very good, and especially as the last of his Trilogy Series.
But only because Cormac is so damn good, I want more horses, more open range, more lonely destructive adventure, Yes I want More.
Cormac is a poet that writes prose and the results are hearty and filling.
I give you an example "far to the south he could see the thin white adderstongues of lightning licking silently along the rim of the sky in the darkness over Mexico." Adderstongues?
Really, but can you better describe the abrupt darting movement of the lightning?
No. But Cormac can.
It earns this rating because it is not nearly as good as "All the Pretty Horses," but it's still a great book.The one major disappointment with this story was its lack of powerful, beautiful, and riveting poetic form.
In this story, however, it is noticeably absent until near the end of the book.The positive: he meant to write it that way.
There have been human beings like John and Billy since the beginning of time, and there will always be humans like them from here on out.Reading these books gives you a brief glimpse at the darkest and brightest qualities of humankind, and that certainly is a story worth reading.
A beautiful ending to the Border trilogy.
The Cities of the Plain is more of a dialogue-driven novel than the previous two (All the Pretty Horses, the Crossing).
It is still a novel firmly wrapped in beautiful landscapes, sad existentialism, and a world that is often dry, cold and unforgiving.
It is a tale of wild and dying giants, fading men, and setting suns.
I read McCarthy and think: what the most I would trade to take possession of the least of his novels?
Would I give an ear for his weakest writing?
An eye?
Which is his weakest novel?
The stunning (yet heartbreaking) conclusion to Cormac McCarthy's "Border Trilogy"— which, IMO, is one of the greatest trilogies ever written. Parts of the prose were beyond magnificent. I'd rank "Cities of the Plain" up there with some of McCarthy's greatest work— including but not limited to "The Sunset Limited," "The Road" & "Blood Meridian." A note of warning, however: This novel is not recommended for the faint of heart.*4.25/5 stars*
Me quedo con esta frase "Donde todo se sabe no hay narración posible", y ya no puedo añadir mucho más.
What in the hell.A large owl lay cruciform across the driver's windshield of the truck.
There's hard lessons in this world.What's the hardest?I dont know.
Every gesture.* * *Two owls crouching in the dust of the road turned their pale and heartshaped faces in the trucklights and blinked and rose on their white wings as silent as two souls ascending and vanished in the darkness overhead.* * *You cant tell anybody anything, bud.
While your world -- he passed the blade back and forth like a shuttle through a loom -- your world totters upon an unspoken labyrinth of questions.
This third of the loosely-defined Border Trilogy novels bring together John Grady Cole of All the Pretty Horses and Billy Parham of The Crossing, who are now working on the same ranch in West Texas.
It’s impossible for me to separate Billy from the horror of his final trip to Mexico, or John Grady from his propensity to fall in love with unsuitable women no matter the cost.
Billy sees it all for the insanity that it is, but eventually ends up helping John Grady in his doomed and dangerous plans.
John Grady and the girl knew what was coming for them, but Billy is the one who really suffers.
Beloved Mexico and all her charms still wreaks havoc and teaches the characters (and reader) all about the cores in all of us.Cormac ambles along until roughly page 190 or so, when two wise men (Mr. Johnson and the maestro) begin urging the themes of the entire trilogy (or for that matter most of Cormac's writing).
Heck, for that matter, it may have all been written just to write the 28 word dedication, but I'm still studying on that.My google account is reeling from all the fun words........I'm likely now on some kind of watch list, but that probably happened five McCarthy books ago.
John Grady Cole and his good friend (and spiritual brother) Billy are the last of a dying breed, young cowboys hanging onto the life of a rancher in Texas.
I don't do it justice here, but it is typical McCarthy and may leave you, like me, thrilled with the clean prose and authentic depiction of young men in a time and place, and scrupulous attention to the tools and techniques of cowboys, horses, old woman cooks, Mexicans of many stripes, and the landscape of 1950's Texas and Mexico.
