https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/170632.Let_Me_Call_You_Sweetheart
This novel had a lot of suspects, and I did not get very suspicious of the actual murderer because he was a friend of the main character.
The main character, prosecutor Kerry McGrath sees a woman she thinks she recognizes at the office of plastic surgeon Dr. Smith while accompanying her young daughter, Robin, for an appointment.
Kerry realizes this woman eerily resembles a murder victim 10 years ago, Suzanne Reardon, who was found strangled to death with sweetheart roses scattered over her body.
It leads up to the end where Dr. Smith is murdered as well.
The author really knows how to keep her readers interested and hooked from page one up to the last.The heroine, Kerry McGrath has taken an interest in a 10-year-old murder case, in which Skip Reardon had been found guilty of slaying his beautiful wife, Suzanne, and has since been pleading his innocence from his jail cell.
It showed us A Mother's Unconditional love for her daughter.
She will do everything to protect her and makes her happy.This book was really wonderful.
It gives you every little detail and you get to know them even though they didn't play a big part in this book.
Mary Higgins Clark nunca me desilude ;)Opinião aqui: https://baudatanocas.blogs.sapo.pt/o-...
I always love how she makes every reader won’t stop reading her story.This book kept me glued to it.
But was surprised how at the end of the story everything changed and the real culprit was now being obvious.Clark never fails to amaze her fans.
Can’t wait to read another book from hers.What I Adore the LeastThe plot of the story was cleverly written that makes it very interesting.
But there are times that I feel that Robin, Kerry’s daughter sounded more like a grown up than a 10 year old kid.Final ThoughtsAs always, everything written by Mary Higgins Clark has been excellent with the elements of suspense, romance and humor.
Kerry realizes this woman eerily resembles a murdered woman, Suzanne Reardon, found strangled to death with sweetheart roses scattered over her body.
Suzanne's husband, Skip Reardon, was charged and convicted, due mostly in part to the suspect testimony of her father - the self-same Dr. Smith.
Kerry starts to wonder why Dr. Smith would re-create the face of his dead daughter.
With her appointment to the judgeship on the line, Kerry defies all opposition and pursues justice at the risk of her own life and that of her daughter.
I loved this book - I have read all of Mary Higgins Clark's books and liked all of them.
Kerry McGrath had only begun to work in the county prosecutor's office at the time of the infamous "Sweetheart Murder Case" -- the bizarre slaying years ago of strikingly beautiful Suzanne Reardon.
Now, ten years later, Kerry has gained a reputation as a smart and relentless prosecutor -- so much so that her name has been given to the governor as a candidate for a new judgeship -- and her new life and career are in full swing.
It is in his office that Kerry first encounters a beautiful face she remembers from her past but can't quite place -- until she realizes that this angelic face is a troubling link to the "Sweetheart" case.
I have read a lot of her books, and she has a pretty consistent style.This novel had a lot of suspects, and I did not get very suspicious of the actual murderer until like two pages before we find out who it was.
That makes it hard to figure out who actually did it.This book concerns itself with a ten-year old murder case.
In which case, a murderer has been walking free for ten years.The one issue I have with Mary Higgins Clark novels is that when I read too many, I start getting a little .
If you missed the TV movie version from a decade ago, get ready for an intense thrill ride in Mary Higgins Clark's Let Me Call You Sweetheart.
Kerry McGrath was a devoted mother and a successful prosecutor.
When her daughter's face was cut in a car accident, it sent her to Dr. Charles Smith's office for plastic surgery.
Little did she know that two faces bear an uncanny resemblance to Suzanne Reardon, a young woman was killed eleven years ago by her husband, Skip, who spent his life in a life sentence.
The further she went, her daughter and her own life was in peril.
This was my second book by Mary Higgins Clark and I am already in love with her mysteries... The way she portrays a strong woman's character is the most appealing... The book kept me glued to my ebook reader the whole night... Looking forward to read more of her works....

Prvih sto strana me iziritiralo, kasnije je ok i ubojica me nije iznenadio.
Despite the fact that the latter never stops claiming his innocence, noone but his mother, the woman he loves, his lawyer, and finally, Kerry, believe him.Fantastic plot.
Higgins Clark deals with a murder mystery, marital and parental issues, a couple of love stories, the despair of an innocent man, the obsessiveness of a plastic surgeon who sees himself as an artist (not the least interesting aspect of the novel), the one of an art thief, political intrigue and manipulation; she deals with all this de main de maitre.
Eso es bastante agradable y sorprendente, tomando en cuenta de que todos los personajes estan ahí desde el principio.Perturbador la imagen del cirujano que repetía una y otra vez el rostro de su hija...
Y luego que otro cirujano diera los porcentajes de fijación de cirujanos plásticos por ciertos razgos...
después de todo no es algo poco común (qué miedo andar por la vida con otro rostro).
Keren, sebuah novel yang bercerita tentang rasa penasaran seorang Jaksa yang heran melihat dua orang wanita mempunyai wajah yang sama di tempat praktek seorang dokter bedah plastik. Rasa penasaran membawanya pada sebuah kasus pembunuhan "Sweetheart murder case" kasus wanita yang wajahnya dia lihat, wajah Suzanne. Upayanya untuk menyelidiki kembali kasus tersebut mendapat berbagai hambatan bahkan dari orang-orang terdekatnya dan juga bosnya serta ayah angkatnya, bahkan nyawa putrinya pun terancam.Cerita ini berhasil membuat saya tak mau berhenti untuk membacanya, cerita yang penuh dengan intrik menarik bagaimana satu persatu fakta muncul dengan ketegangannya masing-masing hingga kebenaran muncul di akhir cerita.
Kerry McGarth a New Jersey prosecutor is in danger.
She has taken and interest in a ten year old murder case.
Skip Readon was found guilty of killing his wife, Suzanne.
When Kerry daughter is hurt in car accident and needs plastic surgery, they go to New York.
Strangely, Kerry notices all the women's facesthat have surgery come out looking like his daughter.
It was his testimony that sent Skip to prison.
As she investigates, she learns many people don't want the case reopened.
Kerry may have to choose between her career or clearing an innocent man.
Another excellent book from this author...complex storyline with lots of characters, but maintainsgood character development and a storyline that's interesting and easy to follow....The story revolvesaround a murder done 10 years ago, called the sweetheart murder, and new information/evidence now coming to light. The main character is an assistant prosecutor now discovering new items of a case where potentially an innocent man has been imprisoned for a decade for. The ending was unexpected which is good....definitely a good read...
It was lunch break when I decide to take a nap in the library. But I was not able to sleep so I decided to read some book. I saw this book on the shelf. At first, I thought the book was some kind of a love story. But in fact, it wasn't. The book was a page-turner. It got my attention and my curiosity as I read every pages. I love the twist and turn of the story. It was so unpredictable especially the ending of the story. Definitely, this book is worth reading for.
I really like Clark's books, especially her earlier ones and this was great. Short chapters, interesting characters, full of suspense and red herrings, and a happily ever after ending - what more could you ask for?
This book had a Brilliant plotline, amazing climax and was a page turner. If you like Murder mysteries, please read this book. It made me want to read more work of Mary Higgins Clark. She is the Queen of Suspense indeed.
It ended in a way I didn't expect and it was a better ending than the one I thought.It's the first book I read from this author and I enjoyed it:)
https://momentosdemagia.wordpress.com...
I'm pretty sure I saw this as a made-for-tv movie. It was a good book with a nice plot twist at the end, but having the nagging feeling that I had seen it play out before ruined it a bit for me.
Kieroutunut plastiikkakirurgi ja syytön vankilassa, siinähän sitä. Vanha kirja, mutta tosi hyvä.
Detektyvų karaliene vadinama rašytoja yra daugelio prestižinių premijų laureatė, JAV detektyvų rašytojų asociacijos prezidentė, jos vardu pavadintas vienas svarbiausių apdovanojimų geriausiems šio žanro rašytojams.Knygos nugarėlė : Po nedidelės avarijos prokurorė Kerė Makgrat su dukrele atsiduria plastinės chirurgijos klinikoje.
Tada teismas nusprendė, kad žudikas yra jos vyras.
Pasakojimas vis pasisukdavo, kad žudikas gal būt yra tas, o gal šitas, taigi aišku, kad anas, ir vėl ne tas.
Nors ir esu detektyvų didelė gerbėja, bet šios autorės, tituluojamos “Detektyvų karaliene” iki šiol nebuvau skaičiusi.
….Tikrai žinau , kad greitai vėl skaitysiu, ką nors iš šios autorės detektyvų….
Things I like:The fact that Kerry is a kickass lawyer (career woman).Kerrys willingness to set her own career back because it's the right thing to do.The way Kerry treats Robin like a tiny human instead of a child that can not understand anything, and actually explains to her what is going on.It is not possible to figure out what is going on - you just have to be surprised along the way.Geoff Dorso behaving like a gentleman.
Smith.
Smith - stalking is a crime, you should not make excuses for people behaving like he does...

This is an intriguing and gripping crime thriller that delves back to the decade previous and the imprisonment of an innocent man triggered by a simple visit to a plastic surgeon following a car accident. The story begins simple enough but becomes increasing complicated, drawing in the criminal underworld, the psychology of grief and some fascinating desires to own beautiful objects. The writing flows well and while all the characters are as you would expect, they have enough depth to keep them interesting and to make some of the revelations rather surprising.
This is an enjoyable quick read. In it you will meet a psychotic plastic surgeon, an aspiring assistant prosecutor, a slippery art collector and critique, a prosecutor who would be governor, and a senator and his wife. All these characters are intricately woven in this page turning mystery about a murdered beauty whose husband was tried and sentenced perhaps wrongly. The ending was not too predictable but I won’t give it away and let you read it.
It is an exciting story. I love how there are 4 different sides of the story. there is suspense after every chapter the author leaves you to think about so much about the further life of the really intresting characters when the story ends. I loved it. you bet you will Never be able to guess the killer of suzzane. the unexpected to happen is also one of the most beautiful feature of clark's writing. I simply think its awesome!
