https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10345927-a-million-suns
I PRESENT: A REVIEW COMPRISED ENTIRELY OF GIFSThis is how I feel. I would like to do this to Beth Revis.This is what it's going to be like waiting for SHADES OF EARTH.When SHADES OF EARTH comes out, I'll be like this.Until SHADES OF EARTH comes out...
I would have liked to see more development from Amy besides whether she wanted to be with Elder or not.And that leads us into the bad.*spoilers ahead*What really ticked me off with this book was the ending.
They even go so far as to burn down the Food Distro building, but suddenly at the end we are fed this BS: (view spoiler)["The scientists agree that the internal functions of the ship could last for at least a generation, maybe indefinitely if the biosphere is maintained and energy conserved." Then a few pages later Elder tells Amy they have enough food for a few more generations.
It's been a while since I finished Across the Universe and gave it a mostly positive review. Since then, I have changed a lot, read many more books, and my expectations and standards have become higher. As more and more time has been put between my finishing Across the Universe and starting A Million Suns, I've been wondering if I would be quite so forgiving of some of the issues I had in the first book if I were to read it again now. You see, despite the pretty sparkly covers, it is the charac
I'm fascinated by the idea of life on other planets, of exploring the universe and discovering all its secrets...
Look at the covers, look at the taglines, the blurb describing how Amy is torn between her feelings for Elder and the chaos that's pulling everything apart - this is such bad marketing when these books are 100% sci-fi with the barest suggestion of romance between the two main characters.And yes, the characters.
It's really bad when a novel is written in 1st person from two points of view and I feel disconnected from both of them.If you're wondering whether you should read this series or not, you need to ask yourself what's most important - good characters or an action-packed and thought-provoking plot?
Encima de todo lo que está pasando en la nave, hay un nuevo asesino, quien desde el principio para mí fue evidente quién era.Siguiendo las pistas de Orion, Amy y Elder encuentran una información que podrá cambiar el futuro de todos en la nave.✨✨✨The possibility of life on other planets is a subject that has always fascinated me.
I remember years ago it was one of my favorite discussion topics.The main thing about these books I like: a ship full of humans, living generation after generation to reach a new planet.
In A MILLION SUNS, we realize that everything we’ve learned so far is incomplete or simply bad information.This book focuses on Elder becoming a true leader (Eldest) and Amy taking charge of her own destiny by trying to find out the truth about Godspeed and the planet they’re supposed to inhabit.
Makes sense, since none of these people ever knew rebellion before, so they’re not skilled to act and think like a soldier, but I simply could not take it seriously.
It’s still a surprising book, seeing that there’s still information to be uncovered and characters to learn the names of and romance to develop, but I am nonetheless slightly disappointed.
One way to describe this book: forgettable. I think the story would have been way better if first two books were combined into one standalone novel and the third would have been cut out altogether. Only then do we get a complete story, with some character development and something that resembles a plot. I don't understand the need to stretch out a story over several different books just for the sake of having a trilogy. There is no trilogy material here. Why, Beth Revis, why?
I read Across the Universe a long time ago and dived in this book with only remembering the main plot and while I did enjoy it, I had many inconsistent thoughts about it.
I'm not going into details since it's better to read this book not knowing much about it so I'm keeping it spoiler free.My main problem was with Amy, the girl annoyed me so much.
Even though I liked Elder, it wasn't enough.
I know her life was far from being easy on Godspeed, but couldn't she stop blaming Elder for everything?
Una historia maravillosa, que atrapa desde la primera página, cada capítulo esta lleno de sorpresas y descubrimientos. Entre más avanzas mas quieres leer, mas cosas necesitas descubrir y mas metido estas en la historia.Ya quiero leer el libro final de esta sagaReseña Completa: http://bastvilard.blogspot.com/2015/0...
4.5 stars
"And here we are, in the middle, surrounded by a sea of stars.A million stars." What an intriguing story.. in a way, even intriguingly sad.This book finds us right where the first one left us. Somewhere between Sol-Earth and Centauri-Earth, suspended in time and space.There is no more Phydus to control the people around the ship and they are quite out of control. People don’t work, people start to fight, they suffer from depression.They start having feelings, they start thinking for themselves a
Instead of helping they just lay around in a pool of laziness and complain like stupid monkeys they are (sorry if I’m harsh, but it is true, and I hate humans with no brain between their ears).In the history of Godspeed other leaders had tried to tell the truth and people on board have gone ballistic trying to tear the ship apart.
Your universe changed with book one.Your heart stopped with book two.And now, it's time to go home.The journey is just beginning...Silence and Stars.A million things, a thousands feelings, hundreds of experiences, all melted together and sculpted into a book-shaped vessel.The people are finally off Phydus, and now, the ship's in chaos.Elder is now Eldest, the burden of responsibility weighed heavily on his shoulders.Riots and the uprising of people.
Orion: Amy,you are my contingency plan.Godspeed was once fueled by lies.
People are not working.People are fighting, arguing, they are not listening to Elder.
Luthe and Orion here they come!!!From http://www.bethrevis.com/Q: Can you tell us anything about the sequels? Beth Revis: I can say this much about Book 2:It’s called A MILLION SUNSIt takes place soon after ACROSS THE UNIVERSEIt does still focus on Amy & Elder -ENDNice detail about the book isn't it? lolI LOVE THE TITLE thought!
4,5İlk kitap bir yaz esintisi, bu kitapsa tam bir kasırga.Kitabın ilk yarısı sıkıldım.
Bence siz de benim bunu dememden sıkıldınız ama kimin umurunda?
Benim değil.
Evet art arda ilk yarısında kötü dediğim ama ikinci yarısında muhteşemleşen kitaplar okudum.
(Bkz. Dikenlikler Prensi, Kızıl Yükseliş, Bir Milyon Güneş.)Buradan ilk kitabı okuyup sevmeyenlere sesleniyorum (benim gibi): ilk kitap bunun yanında sıfır!Yazar kurguyu buram buram hissettiriyor.
O ilk kitapta 'gelişine yazılmış' hava tamamen kaldırılmış ve öyle yazmadığını aslında en başından beri bir kurgu olduğunu anlıyorsunuz.
Kitap boyunca Çırak'ın tavırlarına sinir oldum ama bir yandan da onu çok iyi anladım.Dizi olarak görmeyi çok istiyorum bu seriyi.
Holy shit. I love this series SO MUCH. Gonna start book three immediately bc I NEED TO OKAY.

I can't wait to read about Elder taking the role of The Eldest,and ohhh man! I don't think they should relax with Orion still alive,and that Luthe guy has to be watched closely.______________________“Will you stay with me?” I whisper. “Always.”Elder & Amy ♥
I LOVE THIS BOOK SO MUCH I WANT TO HUG THE ENTIRE UNIVERSE RIGHT NOW.
(Note: Due to copy-and-paste, most formatting and links have been lost.)Reading A Million Suns was like hugging the entire universe in its aggregated starry glory.
I would hate to make comparisons nor name names, so you may want to check out my Goodreads account for the 1 or 2 star reviews.Would you rather 1) fall in love with a completely realistic and stunning boy or 2) a user/jerk/creeper?If you chose 1...
I was going through something similar--dissent among leadership, chaos among expectation--at the time I was reading this book, and it was Elder who kept me hopeful and strong.
You can read the review here.
It was so much better than the first one!The story itself is something I enjoy more than the characters.
I like Elder, and I actually love Amy, even though she annoyed me towards the ending, but thewhole concept of the story is SO interesting!
:'D ) So while Elder wasn't my favourite in Across the Universe, he definitely grew on me in this book.
Amy on the other hand was my favourite character in Across the Universe, and even though I still love her, I can't agree with her actions in this one.
Having left her characters and the Godspeed in something of a lurch, and with some glaring questions to be addressed, I was invested enough to pick up A Million Suns for the answers.
It’s not quite as compelling as the opening of Across the Universe – Revis takes a more subtle approach this time around – but she effectively sets the tone for the rest of the novel.
However, in A Million Suns, I did feel that Amy and Elder really came into their own individually as developed, complex characters.

Elder's decision to stop using Phydus - the drug that calms people down and makes them subservient - has awoken the people onborad on Godspeed.
Orion has left Amy clues about why he did what he did in the first book.
A Million Suns has a great premise and the mysteries about the origins of the Eldest system, the inception and use of Phydus, Orion's 'death' and Godspeed's engine and whearabouts is what kept me engrossed.
Amy was no better - she ran away when things got tough, she was petulant and self pitying for much of the book.
It is perfect for this book, and I can't say why exactly, but this cover just fits so well.When I first started reading, I had to go slow, because so much happened in ATU, and that was so long ago, that it was a little hard to remember every little detail.
Beth throws in another Harley-type character named Victria, and it allows the reader to see that these people on the ship have real problems, the same kind that we wish we could run away from.
I just finished A MILLION SUNS on the plane from Boston to Portland and I wish there was more! Very much looking forward to the next and final book in the trilogy. Beth is awesome and her books are too. Love the slang! This book is so brilly!
This is how I felt about the whole book.
I love the book world.
I love Elder.
I've read and written books with whiny characters and bitchy ones.
There were times I really couldn't understand what Elder saw in her.
The book is super repetitive at times.
Especially with Amy. How many times are you going to tell me you're going to visit your parents in their chambers?
I listened to the audiobook of this and I couldn't understand the choice of style assigned to Elder.
The book kept me interested.
Amy and Elder were the only teenagers, but then he had childhood friends.
Vay canına. Gerçekten! Uzun zamandır hiçbir kitap bu kadar baştan sona şaşırtmamıştı beni. ( Kılıçların Fırtınası hariç.) Bu kadın işi gerçekten biliyor. Umarım son kitapta batırmaz ve bu güzellikte giderse bitirmemesi için dua edeceğim çünkü çok farklı bir konuma geldi kitap. Meraktan ölüyorum yeni kitap için umarım yakında çıkar.
This follow up book to Across the Universe didn't disappoint. Amy and Elder are both so darn lovable and the story line kept me on the edge of my seat. The subject matter is appropriate for MG.Though MG sci-fi is not what I would normally choose to read, I am glad I found this lovely series
I just love the way they say frex throughout the book!Elder has been trying so hard to lead the ship.
Elder must find a way to fix the engines, control the people, and stop the new murderer.Elder is still desperately in love with Amy. It is so cute and really refreshing to finally have the guy chasing the girl.
Amy follows the trail and we find out a lot of new shocks and surprises about the ship and new planet.
Lots of action and I really loved the developments that continued with the ship and it's people.
Ok, I don't know what happen, but I had a review on this book but apparently Goodreads deleted it or something because no longer appears. I refuse to do another one, again. So I'll get you the short version of it. In conclusion, I found the book thrilling, addictive, with a lot more secrets than the first book and with a finally that make you want to read the next one right away.
OK it is not Space Odyssey. I admit, it might be a bit too cheesy and teenagerish at times... But the plot, the atmosphere, the characters and the pacing of this second book of the "Across the Universe" series are all quite good. Overall, it has been quite a page turner. A pleasant science fiction novel. 3.5 stars rounded up to 4. Recommended.
