https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3135492-mr-adam
That can't be good.Oh, but wait a minute - a baby girl is born in New York state, and the father is one Homer Adam, a man who was at the bottom of a lead mine in Colorado on the day Mississippi went poof.
Mr. Adam doesn't want to be the new father of the human race.
That's final."Can Homer Adam escape their clutches, or is he doomed to spend his remaining days like this:Originally published in 1946, the author, a former journalist, was inspired to write this book by the bombing of Hiroshima.
This is almost the same plot as Children of Men, done as comedy in the 40's.
After a nuclear accident, every dude in the world is sterilized.
Except for one dude, a Mr. Adam, who was at the bottom of a lead mine at the time.
The main character is a reporter, and his wife spends most of the book trying to maneuver her way around him into some viable sperm.
But, as anyone who's ever seen a screwball comedy can guess, all the crazyness works out in a rather conventional way, and all the problems are neatly solved without any real threat to the bonds of matrimony.
This was the first book I checked out as a twelve-year-old armed with a brand new "adult" library card.
I reread it sixty years later to see if it was still funny.
Author Pat Frank's background was as a journalist; this is evident in his sparse and direct writing style.
Frank's far-better-known novel is "Alas Babylon" which is also apocalyptic.
The original Kirkus Review said "this will entertain a selected, superior audience." It is unapparent to me why only superior readers would enjoy this book.
Or is it that, if one is entertained by reading the novel, this reaction demonstrates the reader's superiority?
Stati Uniti, anni '40, sicuramente prima degli eventi legati ad Hiroshima e Nagasaki. Un'esplosione in un sito nucleare nello stato del Mississipi (evento mai accaduto ma non tanto impossibile o improbabile) minaccia la sopravvivenza del genere umano. Con lucido e impietoso sarcasmo, l'autore descrive la reazione americana a questo evento e prende in giro la burocrazia e la politica che si mobilitano per proteggere l'unico uomo in grado di salvare la specie.Un romanzo divertente e amaro nello stesso tempo, avvincente fino all'ultima pagina.
4.5. This was very different from what I usually read. But I loved it. It was funny and serious and poked a lot of fun at how governments run so slowly and ridiculously. The narrator had a great point of view and Mr Adam himself was hilarious.
For being published so long ago, this book felt very relevant. It gave me a lot to think about throughout. The reason I am rating it three stars instead of four or five though, is because I found myself skimming to get through some explanations. Too, although it was an easy reader, I had trouble staying interested so it took me a couple days to finish. All-in-all this book gave me sci-fi, romance, and suspense fixes all while leading my thoughts to other books about apocalyptic situations and dystopias!
•A farcical romp through the worlds of self-perpetuating bureaucracy, bloated government, bumbling civil servants, half-baked principles underlying eugenics, quaint sexism and the frailties of a flawed "mankind.". A fast and simple read delivering an amateur's ham-handed satirical view of the New-Deal and World War II military management. Read it if you haven't much of anything else available to kill time in a bus station,•
I read this book over 20 years ago. "Mr. Adam" is the only male who is able to have babies and he's bombarded with women looking for a hook-up. I remember it was kind of depressing but not a bad book.
Rating: 4.5 stars
Gawky, red-haired Homer Adam, a mining engineer who happened to be a mile deep in a lead mine at the time of the explosion, is now humanity's only hope for survival.
But they keep running into hurdles: self-important bureaucrats, ambitious military men, international intrigue, Russian rumors, rogue scientists, fatuous congresspeople and one particularly threatening Hollywood starlet known as "The Frame." Through Smith, Frank tells the story in a classic '40s rat-a-tat style that will feel familiar to anyone who's read some of the other great poker-faced humorists of that era, such as H.
Critics from several newspapers loved this book, to judge from the back cover: "Fresh and startling comedy." "High grade humor: sophisticated, urbane gloriously funny." "You'll enjoy every page." Today, the plot seems hackneyed: An accident at a nuclear power plant leaves every male but one on Earth sterile without, somehow, killing anyone other than half the population of Mississippi.
As a tall geologist living only sixteen miles from the Mississippi state line, previously working for a government agency whose operations long since lost their humor for me, I was only mildly amused by this novel.
The cover describes Mr. Adam as "the lost classic from the dawn of the atomic age." Published in 1946, this book is remarkable.
An explosion leaves every man on earth sterile - with one notable exception, Mr. Homer Adam.
What follows is a tale of bureaucracy, mis-management, appropriation of rights, and lunacy on behalf of some characters.
It begs the question, when do the rights of the citizen give way to the needs of society?
This book engaged me until the very end, where the author delivered a couple of additional surprises for his readers.
A thought-provoking read that delves into how we, as humans, could act when a sliver of hope shines in the midst of our own demise. Amplified selfishness, destructive jealousies, science vs politics, and inevitable self-destruction--basically all the ugliness that is the human condition--run rampant in this story. What made it unique for me, though? It brought into light a different way the human species could end: by losing the ability to reproduce.
In this science fiction satire written in 1946, we find Mr. Adam as the only man left in the world with the ability to sire children after a atomic plant explosion. He is whisked away to Washington to assist in impregnating women but the politicians leave him disgusted and he does the only thing he can think of to prevent him from being the only fertile man around. I think this story has held up pretty well and while not a perfect novel, I found it pretty entertaining.
Interesting, but dated.One of the first sci-fi ooks I ever read was “Alas Babylon”. I loved it. I hoped for more like it in this book, but was disappointed. It’s a satirical look into the ridiculousness of politics, with very little science, and what science there is, is faulty. Now I’m going to re-read “Alas Babylon” to rinse my brain out.
I did not expect to be so drawn in by the apocalyptic genre, but this is my second Frank book, and I'm hooked!!His writing is tight and inventive. His storyline leaves you grasping for solutions... I love it all. For the more discriminating reader, be aware that there is some coarse language toward the end of the book.
An absolute must read for fans of anything weird, fun or bonkers. Mr Adam is the story of the last man not steralized by the great Mississippi explosion. A great look into the "what if" to do with nuclear testing.
Great read.
Mildly interesting but probably good for the time it was written.
Hated this story so much I didn't finish it. I can count on one hand the number of books I've done that too.
I read Alas, Babylon in 9th grade english class and really enjoyed it.
I recently rediscovered Pat Frank and had no idea he wrote several atomic age novels warning about the perils of it.This was written in 1946 right after the bomb was dropped.
It supposes a nuclear accident has sterilized all the men in the world except one Mr. Homer Adam.
What follows is an almost farcical look at the bureaucracy of what might happen.
The characters aren't too deep, neither is the plot, but it was fun to read.
worth a read if you're curious, but not a game changer.
A classic sci-fi novel: looking at something new (and actually or potentially dangerous), imagining what could go wrong, and exploring the world in which that happened.
Pat Frank wrote with a remarkable understanding of the implications of a suddenly sterile world from a business and political viewpoint.
Honestly the men other than the narrator and Mr. Adam were an interchangeable bunch, while most of the named female characters stood out.Remarkably this early line is still appropriate, except for the number of states: "People felt that if any one of the forty-eight states had to be sacrificed, it was just as well it had happened to Mississippi."
The plot sounded interesting enough, so I decided to read the novel.
However, although I really liked the idea of the human race facing mass extinction due to its inability to reproduce, the execution was rather poor; especially the character development.
The individuals in the story are interesting but lack depth and color.
The story is written as a rather matter-of-fact recalling of events.
In Pat Frank's defense, let's say that this style is a reflection of the protagonist's profession; he's a journalist.Overall, I think it's an OK read if you can grab the book for free.
For all its -ve qualities it's still better written than The Martian, but not as good a story.General idea: Accident at a nuclear power plant makes all Earth's men sterile except one.
Women commit suicide in droves being unable to fulfill their natural duty.
Men have a field day.
Mr. Adam, the sole fertile man, is whisked away to DC and lost in administrative hell and political jockeying.
Newspaperman, Steven Decatur Smith, is plucked from the AP and given the responsibility of overseeing production of Adam's natural abundance.
I found myself chuckling at spots. This book at once had a great old feel about it without feeling like a typical work of the era, a clever thing to pull off. Lighthearted in tone and with a great deal to recommend it for any fan of the period, there's plenty to enjoy (tropes of the time included of course). The married relationship is particularly delightful, and there's just something about the writing of a newspaperman that you just can't find in a modern book, no matter how hard you try.
I think I'm in a reading slump.
This book was meh for me.
It felt dated, which it obviously was, but without any redeeming nostalgia to push me through.
The story of the last virile man alive after a nuclear accident is mostly a little weird with some echoes of certain governmental disputes over who controls what, but there's not enough here to really grab a person.
But I'm giving it 3 stars since it should have been a much quicker read which probably would have enhanced the enjoyment.
I need something that is going to pull me back into reading.
I didn't really like any of the characters.
Another novel,written in the post WWII era and featuring a nuclear accident. The author, Pat Frank was a journalist and government consultant. In this book, virtually all males in the world become sterile. I find it informative that all the popular fiction from the time frame feature the nuclear industry. Obviously this was on everyone's mind. Of amusement to me, my home town of Bowie, Maryland is mentioned as the main character visits Bowie for the opening of the racing season.
Pat Frank's more famous book, Alas Babylon, was my apocalyptic dystopian gateway book. So this title (with a plot like a more sedate, gender-reversed Children of Men, featuring a childlessness pandemic and a sole surviving non-sterile man) seemed like a good bet.I could almost forgive the occasional non-PC or offhandedly sexist 40s-era clunkiness since it's merely a product of its time. But follow it up with long boring sections on government committee organization? Nah. Didn't finish.
A relic of the atomic age, first published in 1946, this book is about an accidental atomic explosion that sterilizes every man on earth but one, Mr. Homer Adam. It's more of a comedy and satire of the bureaucracy of government, than an actual warning about the dangers atomic power. it was a mildly funny read.This is the first novel by Pat Frank who would later write "Alas Babylon", which is one of the earliest post-apocalyptic novels about nuclear war.
