https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23746004-black-eyed-susans
Great psychological thriller!!!
Left to die in an abandon field in Texas, Forth Worth, Tessa, (16 years old), is covered in Black-Eye-Susan's......
She has a 14 year old daughter named Charlie whom she feels frighten for her safely --- Somebody has been planting 'Black Eye Susan's' under Tessa's window along with messages.
GUESS WHO?Is it possible that Tessa help put the wrong man behind bars?
Lydia is Tessa's best friend, since they were 8 years old --- is gone.
( house sold and no contact with Tessa)...Lydia comes back into story 17 years later.
alternating past and present...from two points of view: Tessa, and later...Lydia.
EDIT: Because I seriously wrote "outside her winder." WTF kind of hillbilly am I?!?!?!?!Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ “The Susans are a greedy plant, often the first to thrive in scorched, devastated earth. Pretty, but competitive, like cheerleaders. They live to crowd out the others.” Nearly twenty years ago Tessa Cartwright was labeled “the lucky one.” Rather than dying with the other ladies who occupied the ditch in which she was dumped, Tessa was rescued. Sinc
But as the countdown begins to the execution of her “monster,” Tessa begins doubting if he actually committed the murders at all – especially when she discovers some new plants growing outside her winder (WINDER???
I hate reviewing mystery/thrillers – especially the ones I really enjoyed reading.
The mystery wasn’t handed out on a silver platter, and even if figured out early I don’t think it would stop many people from still enjoying the story.
The writing was above par (especially for a mystery/suspense/thriller/whatever) .
Imagine he sat in that chair right over there, three feet away, and answered EVERY SINGLE ONE OF YOUR QUESTIONS.
Loved the way the story is told, alternating chapters that introduce Tessie meeting with a psychiatrist shortly before the trial of the man identified as the killer, and years later as the man is nearing his execution date and she has doubts about her earlier identification.
So yes very well thought out but also deals with the unreliability and fragility of memories and the problems with eye witness identification.
Also included many CSI type elements told in an interesting and prevalent to the story, way.
Loved the cover too and doubt I can look at these flowers again without thinking about this book.ARC from NetGalley.
Black Eyed Susans is yet another novel blurbed to be for Gillian Flynn fans.
I do not have any problems following unreliable narrators but the jumpy POV switching of present day and sixteen year old Tessa did become tiresome halfway through the novel.
With each switch I felt the suspense dying little by little, until all I wanted to do was skip the 16-year old Tessa POV.
Most likely the former but Black Eyed Susans is just a two star read for me.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------2 feels-like-Danielle-Steele-not-Gillian-Flynn stars.This started out very strong but kind of fell apart in the middle.
The lucky one."I rarely read thrillers, but based on my limited experience with this genre, I would say that Black-Eyes Susans is a slow burn yet completely gripping story!
The unreliability of memory (Tessie lost large portions of her memories of both her abduction and her time in the grave), the disappearance of Tessie’s childhood best friend, and the sinister appearance of a patch of black-eyed susans growing outside Tessa’s window all add to the eerie feeling of suspense in this book!I would recommend this book to anyone interested in a thriller that leans more heavily towards mystery rather than rapid, shocking twists and turns.
His execution date is coming up, his lawyers is fighting to save him, and Tessa's memory is not cooperating, in fact, Tessa herself is not sharing everything she remembers...Short chapters, fast moving storyline, alternating between the lives of Tessie the teenager, who became Tessa the adult, the mother of a 14-year-old daughter, named Charlie.
Tessa only remembers fragments of her ordeal.A psychological thriller as intense, morbid and thrilling as they can get.
And somewhere in their circle of conduct, a serial killer might be on the lose, watching them, intimidating Tessa and her daughter, while the press hound her once again.
Meh. This was just ok for me. It felt like it dragged quite a bit. I enjoyed Tessa from the past way more than present day Tessa. Too much CSI and not enough suspense in my opinion.
I love a good thriller and was so excited to get an advanced copy of Black-Eyed Susans as I have heard wonderful things about this upcoming book!Thankfully I was not at all disappointed!Tessa is only 16 when she is left for dead, the only survivor of a serial killer.
Tessa in the present day is helping a team of investigators who suspect the man convicted of murdering the Black-Eyed Susans to be innocent.
Heaberlin certainly put in a lot of research putting it all together.The characters from young Tessie's life were just as pivotal.
We all know the feeling of grabbing a book that is popular and well promoted by its publisher only to be let down and disappointed.
This one fills the bill to a tee for an attention-getting storyline.And while the storyline is quite intriguing, it is Julia Heaberlin's talent for formulating descriptives and delicate passages that showcase her craft.
Yes, we all feel it personally when an author doesn't wrap up the story to our liking.
You'll know what I mean when you get there.Heaberlin is gifted.
Cleverly Crafted Suspense Novel Lost Thrust After Premature Climax3.5 starsBlack-Eyed Susans is a well-written, clever mystery novel, complete with a best teen buddy, a budding romance and a sexual tension that builds to a palpable purple. On the other hand, excessive flashbacks made the story hard to follow, losing me in large chunks. After suffering the literary equivalent of untimely emissions, the novel's resolution is largely dubious.
The twist.... ummm DIS TEW MUCH. This is one of those books whee I kept thinking, yeah I've read this before. And then there was the twist and I was like, wait, WHAT? WHAT? HUH? I certainly kept turning pages to get to the end and see how it all unravels but oh I hated the twist. The last two parts kind of didn't make sense BUT all this said, there is a lot of ambition to this novel and the various pieces and I admire that.
My suggestion is to find somewhere quiet when you start this book because it is well worth persevering.The story is about a horrendous crime that happened to 17 yr old Tessa who in 1995 was found barely alive in a pit with the dead body of a missing girl and some human bones covered in the flowers named Black Eyed Susans.
Tessa is reminded that she is the only surviving Black Eyed Susan when chilling occurrences begin to happen around her.
Black-Eyed Susans by Julia Heaberlin is one of the finest psychological thrillers I have read.
17 year old Tessa is found barely alive and buried with other young women later called the Black-Eyed Susans.
Tessa is the only survivor.
A brilliant, creepy, chilling thriller where the author goes back to the past and to the present 20 years later with great skill.
A killer is put in prison after the crime, but who is it planting black-eyed susans under Tessa's window 20-years later?
This is a suspense novel written for intelligent readers who have a love for psychological thrillers.
Dear reader,If you are in the mood for an utterly compelling psychological thriller that will keep you in tight suspense,then you need to treat yourself to this book!Centred around an event that happened some seventeen years ago that saw Tessie survive being abducted and dumped in a grave with other girls,nicknamed the Black Eyed Susans,we are immediately enticed into this most beguiling of storylines.
“Black-Eyed Susans by Julia Heaberlin, is a crime drama/psychological suspense novel, and creepy at times, but without the need of graphic violence.
Her testimony put him on death row.Lydia, Tessa's best friend since childhood has been missing since she testified in court.
Almost 20 years after surviving a serial killer attack, single mom Tessa Cartwright begins to doubt that the man on death row, soon to be executed, is the true culprit.
Be prepared for a surprise ending!Thank you to Random House/Ballantine books, Netgalley, and Julia Heaberlin for the ARC of this novel.
Sadly a DNF for me. I got about 100 pages in over a week or so (slow for me) and then the next 50 pages were like wading through treacle and not in a good way. I think the construct of the novels what got me. As our protagonist Tessa looks back on her childhood she’s blocking events out, as you might if you were left for dead by a murderer, but sadly Heaberlin keeps us at such a distance we don’t connect and I sadly stopped caring and just got a bit bored. Oops.
My book ish: Blog | InstaThis is just an OK book about O.J. Simpson.Oh, I’m sorry, it’s not about O.J. Simpson? He’s just talked about incessantly? My bad.So, this is a pretty good suspense-mystery that is not about O.J. Simpson.But who are we kidding? There really is no O.J. mystery.He did it.  "I am the Cartwright girl, dumped once upon a time with a strangled college student and a stack of human bones out past Highway 10, in an abandoned patch of field near the Jenkins property. I am the star
She kept the truth at such a distance from me as a reader that it didn’t come across as clever surprise, as much as it did an oddity to the rest of the novel.Instead of “WHAT?!”, I got more of a “Um, what?”You see the difference there?The first 85% of the novel feels genuine, human and, despite the lead’s lack of emotional availability, it was engrossing in it’s honesty of the justice system, surviving trauma and forensic work.
At the age of sixteen Tessa was a miracle as the only survivor in the Black-Eyed Susan murders.
Back then Tessa was struggling with her own mental survival, not really pondering whether the authorities had the right guy, Terrell Darcy Goodwin, on trial.
The last chapters and journal entries were a chilling peek into twisted thoughts.For any romance junkies who wonder (like me) there was a little bit of romance, but it’s a very minor part of the story.
Julia Heaberlin’s writing was wonderfully suspenseful, taut with tension, and just the right amount of twists and turns to keep me glued to the pages!
We hear from her [flashbacks] when she was just 17 years old, then we come up to the present day where she is 32 years old and a Mother herself.The remains of the other bodies where Tessie was found, were buried under Black-Eyed Susan flowers.
Hence the title.But who are the other dead bones belonging to?The killer is about to be executed, and what does that mean for Tessie?Its a very creepy read.
I can see why the remains and Tessie were hidden from view.Its well worth your time in getting this book.
http://angelerin.blogspot.com/2016/07...I won Black-Eyed Susans in a Goodreads giveaway.
Thank you to Goodreads and Ballantine Books!Black-Eyed Susans is the best thriller that I have read in awhile.
Also, there is some forensic science in the book and I liked that a lot.
#ResearchPaysOffIf you like tension in your thrillers then this one is for you!
#TensionLastsLongerThanACheapThrillI also really like Tessa's character.
I like her daughter a lot as well.
Now that I'm thinking more about it, I liked a lot of the characters in the book.
I will definitely have to read the author's other books.
#NewFaveAlertI recommend Black-Eyed Susans to all thriller lovers.
This is my first read of a Julia Heaberlin novel and I was drawn to reading it by the not only the description of the book but also the impressive reviews I had read by other readers.I found the book a little disappointing, although it was good in patches and showed promise I still felt generally that it didn't hold my full attention.
The book alternates between the past and present but it's failing for me was that it was too slow.The novel is set in Fort Worth, Texas, and tells the story of teenage Tessie and Tessa, aged 32.
The mystery was good, it just took a really long time to get all the answers.Typically I love short chapters, but with that and the bouncing back and forth from past to present, I found the flow to be a bit jarring.
This is a rather lengthy read, and at times I did find my mind wandering.
Not sure...I think I will have to tell you to rely on the majority ratings for this and decide for yourself, as I seem to be in the minority.
I am generally not crazy about amnesia stories, but there was this added dimension with questions of morality and the death penalty in Texas, which caught my attention, and made Black-Eyed Susans stand out.The story centers around Tessa, a woman who was almost killed as a teenager, but whose memory of that event is hazy at best.
I'm definitely curious to explore more of Heaberlin's work.I won Black-Eyed Susans in a First Reads Giveaway and have written what I think is a fair and fitting review.
Thanks!Find more reviews and bookish fun at http://www.princessandpen.com
I am very conflicted on this book due to the way the author wrote about Tessa liked her in the prese
Black-Eyed Susans opens with immediate intrigue but unfortunately the subtle telling did not engage my attention as much as I would have liked during the middle section.
Having said that the last 30% of this thriller turned the pace of the story up to a more engaging tempo.
The court case is depicted from this point and the climax unfolds brilliantly, I truly wish the storytelling had included this earlier in the tale as it certainly would have engaged my attention with the story in a more convincing manner.
Lovers of Thrillers with subtle story telling and strong female leads will no doubt enjoy the Black-Eyed Susans and it's original plot line.
I enjoyed this mystery/thriller. Took me a bit to get really into but was 'full steam ahead' once I did. The ending was easily one of the best twists I've read this year... I did not see it coming at all. High recommendation.
Years later, she is still known as the surviving Susan, but with the “killer” on death row, Tessa teams up with Bill and Jo to uncover the truth about the real killer and hopefully release the wrongly accused man from being sentenced to his death.This book follows two different timelines.
How was she picked to be one of the victims?I also did not understand who kept planting the Black-Eyed Susans years later.The Lydia storyline seemed a bit far fetched an the end and really hard to believe.I enjoyed the premise and felt it had a lot of potential, but it fell a bit flat for me.
The best thriller I have read in a very long time - if you're a fan of suspense you won't want to miss this one!When Tessie was in high school, she went for a run one night and ended up missing.
The author had me guessing all the way to the end, and in my opinion, that makes for a perfect suspense novel.
Definitely one of my favorite books this year, I loved it from beginning to end!On a side note: it bothers me that books like this one are being marketed as the next 'Gone Girl' or 'The Girl on the Train'.
This allows the story to gradually unfold, and leave you on several cliffhangers while it jumps to a different time.It had me thoroughly hooked from the beginning, wanting to learn what happened to this woman who lives in constant fear.
However, I found the writing quite enjoyable in this one, and feel that my previous ambivalence was more that the subject matter of the book didn't interest me than anything else.I did dock it a star because while the pacing was generally good, I felt that part of it was because Tessie didn't WANT to really know what happened, which annoyed me to no end and dragged the book out.Cross posted at Kaora's Corner.
I did think that the blurb sounded kind of creepy, and I actually did want to read a thriller to kind of mix up the genre of books I read a bit, but I chose this one in particular because of the cover.
I really liked the premise - the whole thing just sounded creepy.
Despite one or two shivers at some creepy things, I never really felt in danger or that there was any danger towards the characters.
There was almost nothing to tie up, because the mystery was barely happening even earlier in the book.
And though there were  some  twisted things happening, it just wasn't very dark.
