https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/88884.The_City_and_the_Pillar
So few of my GR friends have read this and other Gore Vidal classics, I have to pose the question: where does Vidal stand in the American pantheon?
Do his historical novels about the Republic turn readers off for their political content and supposedly dry writing?
Can someone born into a wealthy political family, close to JFK and Al Gore, win admiration as a novelist?
More people should read his eccentric novels—clearly Gore takes more risks than many of his American contemporaries, coming from a refreshingly bisexual perspective, not the rampantly hetero angle of Mailer and Updike.
Everyone is good looking in the kind that says walking away.
People look away and the world turns without it.
Once upon a time Jim adored unadorned Bob. Don't call it love for this is something else, not that way.
The dream dies like that around him and I want to touch the insides of the living carcass instead of the outline of the headstones.
Somewhere before Jim didn't know what it meant to only be a kept man.
I don't know what happens in bedrooms and cold hands and tomorrow might be long but there's more to stir than what people might be saying.
Jim looked at his hand.
Be warned: Goodreads will "recommend" this book to you automatically if you've read OTHER VOICES, OTHER ROOMS by Truman Capote.
Gore Vidal and Truman Capote were both gay men, and both Southerners.
It's like comparing Jimi Hendrix to Spike Lee!Truman Capote wrote dreamy, romantic prose full of emotion and atmosphere that focuses entirely on the deepest feelings of his characters.
Capote was more interested in feelings than in ideas.
Vidal was more interested in ideas than feelings.
THE CITY AND THE PILLAR is a gay coming of age story, much like OTEHR VOICES, OTHER ROOMS.
İngiliz yazar Iain Banks'ın 'Eşekarısı Fabrikası' isimli aykırı romanını okuyordum bir süre önce, orada Gore Vidal'dan bahsediliyordu.
Kısa ama çarpıcı bir şekilde adı geçiyor ve 'Kent ve Tuz' isimli romanı ilham verici başka bir aykırı roman olarak etiketliyordu.
Bu beni heyecanlandırmıştı zira kütüphanem içinde en sevdiğim eserler hep yasaklanmış, korkulmuş edebi metinlerdi.'Kent ve Tuz' bu minvalde bakıldığında zamanına göre ilerici bir duruşa sahip, ancak günümüz için aykırı sayılamayacak bir metin.
Jim benim hep aklımın bir köşesinde yaşayacak karakterlerden biri olarak kalacak.
Hatta baskıyı o kadar beğendim ki Helikopter Yayınları'nın bastığı diğer kitapları da gözü kapalı okuyacağım.
Yine Gore Vidal'ın diğer kitaplarını Literatür Yayınları basmış.
Onları da aynı şekilde bir an önce okuyacağım.
Unfortunately, it is the waning days of summer, and life has different plans for the two and they are forced to go their separate ways.For the rest of the novel, Jim loses complete touch with Bob Ford for all those intervening years and obsesses over him during hopeless travels of the world in search of him -- an epic journey that takes him to various ports of call as a civilian seaman, and then across the US and Mexico as a Hollywood tennis instructor, a private in the air force in World War II and more.
In stallo di lettura da quasi nove mesi con l'aggiunta che è un periodo in cui fatico a leggere e concentrarmi, quindi lo faccio precipitare nel nutrito scaffale degli abbandonati, non è un pessimo libro, anzi, ma per ora non mi interessa proseguire.P.S. notazione ci sono alcune affinità con la storia raccontata nel film molto bello I segreti di Brokeback Mountain, non solo perché entrambe storie di amori omosessuali.
No matter what one might think about this author's writing ability, one has to admit he was not afraid to take on any subject, which did indeed end all of his political aspirations.
Very unkind.) Vidal was warned that if he published this book, his political aspirations were over.
His publisher warned him that if he published this book, Vidal would still be attacked for it in twenty years, 1968.
But due to several unfortunate choices of character descriptions and a few pointless racial/ethnic slurs (with an emphasis on pointless, nothing was added to the story by their utilization, we didn't learn anything about how someone in the 1940s might think and talk: absolutely no excuse for Vidal), there are flaws.
Six years later, he published again under his own name, The Judgment of Paris, a different narrative with with the same coming of age content as "City" showing Vidal as remarkable and daring from the start.This novel is better than "Judgment" which is more narrative and less interior.
On a political note, despite the country that makes his very existence illegal, Jim feels compelled to fight in the war and enlists while Kochan avoids the draft.The City and the Pillar is an important work for its place, time, content and clarity.
Kent ve Tuz, içselleştirdiği toplumsal koşullandırmalar doğrultusunda, insanın "doğası" gereği heteroseksüel olmak zorunda olduğunu düşünen, ancak kadınlara karşı da herhangi bir cinsel çekim hissetmeyen genç bir erkek olan Jim’in, homoseksüel çevrelerde farklı ilişki formlarındaki konumlanışını ve kendini arayış sürecini işliyor.
Jim’in bu yolculuktaki kılavuzu ise, ilk gençlik yıllarında yakın arkadaşı Bob ile yaşadığı duygusal ve cinsel yakınlaşmanın ideali ve Bob’a günün birinde yeniden kavuşacak olmanın hayali.Vidal bu romanıyla alışılageldik cinsiyet rollerine ve toplumun cinsel yönelimlere bakışına önemli eleştiriler yöneltiyor.
Şüphesiz Fatih Özgüven elinden çıkmış harikulade çevirinin de bunda önemli payı var.Bende yazarın diğer yapıtlarını da okuma isteği uyandıran bu sarsıcı ve dönüştürücü eseri herkese şiddetle tavsiye ederim.
Occhi serrati contro un mondo irrilevante."Nell'America degli anni Quaranta, come oggi, non c'è nulla di più scandaloso dell'attentare al concetto di "normale".
Con questo libro fece molto di più.La statua di sale è la storia di un amore e di una crescita, di un viaggio, forse una fuga; è, soprattutto, la storia della ricerca normale, universale, dell'amore.
Distruggendo per sempre, o quasi, gli stereotipi dell'amore omosessuale, Vidal mette in scena il peregrinare umano di un giovane normale, normalissimo, un giovane come tanti, e che pure sfugge a qualunque definizione.
This is a great book, a good read.
Gore Vidal explores relationships, particularly homosexual relationships, tastefully, delicately, and above all elegantly.This short book has a cleverly constructed story line.
It follows the development of young Jim Willard who develops a serious crush on his school friend Bob Ford just before both of them set off from their home towns to begin their lives in the wider world.
Will Jim ever meet Bob again?
This is what I kept asking as I read this enticing novel.
Read it to find out.
It enlightened me about the partial freedom available to certain classes of gay men in the 30s and 40s.
The coming-out/coming-of-age story seems a little ordinary now, but nobody had done it in America before Vidal, as far as I can tell.
Plus, the story of the teenage dream that dies horribly is applicable to anyone, gay or straight.Can you believe this quote, more than 20 years before Stonewall -- I wish we could all be as articulate...
"But do you have the nerve to tell the world about yourself?" Paul sighed and looked at his hands.
Vidal's tragic gay love story was no doubt brave and groundbreaking for it's time, but imitators have diminished the story and contemporary readers will likely find the themes cliche.
Like so many of his literary contemporaries, the character of Jim struggles to reconcile his physical desires with his yearning to live a "normal" heterosexual life, but Vidal doesn't belabor the point.
Vidal made a concerted effort to sculpt masculine queers - an aim contemporary gay novels don't hold as dear - and while he succeeds at times one wonders if he didn't rely on misogyny to achieve his desired effect.
The faults of this work are fairly self evident ... however its significance stems from its subject matter and publication date. As such it deserves a place on the shelf along with other early examples such The Hustler by John Henry Mackay.
i can only hope that his writing style gets better.i do find interesting, now having read both the city and the pillar and baldwin's giovanni's room(published in 1948 and 1955 respectively), the way distaste for the old queens is expressed.
i have a vague awareness of myra breckenridge (about a transwoman, actually, but still outside the mainstream there, although from the sounds of it, rather like jim in the city and the pillar, rather intent on staying in the mainstream) being a very borderline positive/terrible representation, but that has partly to do with knowing that breckenridge rapes a man with a strap-on at some point (the city and the pillar ends with a sexual assault too, and i wonder if the topic comes up in all his books with queerish folks.
Minimalistic, but still with stylish and potent prose, Vidal tells the story of the difficulties homosexuals face in an intolerant culture, and the externalization of the self, which led to the a brutal final act so our hero may finally understand, and commit, to who he is. The characters are known to us passively, by what they do, and by what they think of others and by the absence of what they know about themselves. In developing the characters, Vidal showed incredible restraint, and he should be praised for it.
Undaunted, Jim goes to sea himself, beginning a seven-year odyssey to reunite with Bob.Along the way, Jim accepts that he just isn't attracted to women and has several affairs with men, including an actor in Hollywood and a writer in New Orleans.
Jim gets him drunk and tries to make a move but is rejected, leading Jim to commit a violent crime against Bob, who has been the object of his every desire for almost a decade at this point.As a reading experience, TCatP is extraordinarily depressing, especially if you happen to be a confused twenty-year old looking to explore LGBT literature so you can understand yourself.
Mientras sale de su natal Virginia, se relaciona con otros hombres y mujeres, tanto en sus vidas como en sus camas.Debo reconocer que me gustó y sorprendió al mismo tiempo.
De todos los personajes, el que más me gustó fue el de Paul Sullivan, porque es un tipo consciente del sufrimiento.
A pesar de todos los pensamientos de Jim, sigue siendo un misterio como personaje.Con una prosa bastante sencilla, es una narración que se lee rápido, a pesar de que a momentos suele ser muy cruda y grotesca.
It fits the flow of the narrative and deprives the earlier ending of its mandatory homophobia, until recently the price paid for any literary or cinematic treatment of the subject.
The protagonist, Jim Willard, seems so well fitted to the fuller representation we've come to expect that only a few references reminded me that people such as gay athletes were once thought not to exist at all.
But in this book, Jim's sexuality is everything and his relationships with straight males are his main problem.
After its release, New York Times refused for many years to review any of his novels.
I found the book ok, maybe I expected too much from it, but it was an interesting first meet anyway.***i-a ruinat minutios-pregatita cariera politica, i-a adus defaimare si multe vobe grele din partea criticii si publicului american, pentru ca a fost primul roman american in care se discuta deschis problema homosexualitatii.
dupa publicarea lui [1948], new york times a refuzat timp de citiva ani buni de zile sa-i mai recenzeze orice carte.
nu-i contest valoarea [lui vidal care este], da’ poate n-am inceput cu cartea care trebuie.
Written in straight forward prose (though I have added quotations that exemplify some lovely flourishes), this is the tale of a pre-Stonewall gay.
Jim discovers his love for a boy in high school which puts his life on a different path than everyone else he knows.
He travels, meets some other people, and holds on to his early love.
Jim's understanding of his own gayness is pretty sophisticated and interesting.My only complaint is that sometimes the narrative became skeletal as Vidal moved quickly through some plot points.
Particularly glaring was the chapter in which all of the people who Jim sent letters to receive them.
"هذه الرواية جريئة جدا، ولكن من غير ابتذال، حتى بالمقاييس الأمريكية، وقد أثارت جدلا واسعا حين صدرت للمرة الأولى سنة 1948، ثم صودرت ليس فقط لأن موضوعها يدور عن "الشذوذ الجنسي"، بل لأنها اقتحمت بهذا الموضوع المحرم مجتمعا محافظا يقدس الجيش والعسكرية"ومن هنا رغبت في قرأة تلك الرواية التي اثارت ضجة كبيره في اوساط المجتمع الامريكي المحافظ في تلك الفترة و ربطها بما آراه الآن - بقرن الواحد و العشرين- و التحولات التي طرأت عليها المجتمعات الامريكية و اهمها وضع قانون يسمح بـ (الزواج المثلي) في ولايه ماساتشوستس عام ٢٠٠٤ و تتابعتها بعض الولايات الآخرى .
ilk defa gore vidal okudum, geç kaldığım yazarlardan biriymiş. etkileyici anlatım, sade ve sürükleyici. 1940'lı yıllarda Amerika'da eşcinsel aşk romanı yazmak büyük cesaret işi, o kesin. insanı rahatsız eden ama bir o kadar da haz veren bir şey var bu romanda. bir anının gölgesinde geçen bir ömür, rüzgarda salınan yapraklar gibi tüm karakterler, bir o kadar renkli. birbirine çarpan yıldızlar. yazarın da dediği gibi "hiçbir şey değişmez. ama hiçbir şey de bir zamanlar olduğu gibi kalmaz." bittiğinde vuruldum resmen, elimde kitap, kalakaldım, zor uyudum. çevirisi de ayrı güzel. benden tavsiye.
I finished the book this morning, and I have really been hit hard by it.
Very clear, straightforward, giving us the idea on how the gay world and community was in the 40's in the States.
The main character appears (to me) at the beginning as quite dull and serious, without emotions, but little by little you really get to love him, and in a way, totally understand him in one of these situations where you have a tunnel vision where others see things so clear.
The end of the novel is really really very shocking.Really worth a read.
And a re-read.
The revised 1965 ending is....sensational. Totally unexpected and left me conflicted. I felt it to be symbolic and, as such, perversely, frighteningly invigorating which is a freakishly peculiar reaction in view of what happens. I think Gore meant to do that. I hope it's not just me...
Yes, I'm sort of reviewing this backward, but the largest part of the book was the title story and thus deserves a bit more attention.The seven early stories were unique & entirely worthwhile.
I'd expected more of the same upon having finished the novel portion, but Vidal clearly had a gift for exploring nuances in a variety of circumstances.
I had to abandon expectations, and that's always a plus.« The City and the Pillar » was dark, unvarnished, and 'Come on, man, you really think that nothi—wait—what?
Having said that, it's almost refreshing to read something so -honest-, and it's a good way to try to become a bit more comfortable with being -UN-comfortable.
His place as a young man of letters seemed to be assured, his political career could come later; being a national treasure in America’s post war glow would do him no harm.Vidal followed up Williwaw with the moderately successful In a Yellow Wood but it was with the follow up The City and the Pillar (1948, 1997 Abacus), which would change his life forever.
It should have destroyed Vidal, it certainly did any real political career, but instead it made him who he is today; the man I’m so fascinated by.Perhaps the least interesting thing to note about The City and the Pillar is how goddamned brilliant it is.
When Vidal was honest, when he really put forth Jim's experience and stayed true to him, letting the narrative unfold naturally, the book was wonderful.
But when the author went off on some of the more over-the-top adventures (such as the love affair with the famous Hollywood actor), things just started to feel like fantastic wish fulfillment.
Overall rather uneven, as the early works of great novelists tend to be, but still brilliant, in spite of (and not because of) its time.
Vidal went balls out for this, breaking new ground and doing so with great technique.
Al di là dei risvolti socio-culturali di questo romanzo – che contiene spunti delle ancor oggi attuali lotte contro l’omofobia e tracce di ribellione all’omologazione il tema interessante e cruciale che esso pone è quello dell’antinomia tra cambiamento.
Sarei curiosa di sapere quanto c'è di autobiografico in questo romanzo, perché senza dubbio la personalità del protagonista è quantomeno sfaccettata.
La storia di Jim in sè non è una grande storia ma sono i dialoghi e i concetti espressi in modo semplice ma diretto quello che fanno di questo libro un opera da leggere.

