https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/489972.The_Snowman
One winter's night, a snowman comes to life and a magical adventure begins....A 'feel-good' Christmas story. It has been on my shelves for almost a year, waiting for Xmas time. A bit early, but I decided I could use this 'sidestep' from busy work and studies. Drawings are cute and beautiful. 'Narrated entirely through pictures, its dreamlike illustrations perfectly capture the wonder and innocence of childhood'. I liked it, took my thoughts away from 'brand management' and 'customer marketing';-) Looking forward to Christmas, only a few weeks to go!Cute picture book!
To see this week's wordless picture books please visit www.readrantrockandroll.comThe Snowman by Raymond Briggs is a wonderful wordless book for children.
The story starts with a young boy who sees the snow outside and rushes out of his home to build a snowman.
As the boy sleeps, the snowman comes alive and is welcomed into the boy’s home to discover what it’s like inside.
In return, the snowman will show him his home as well.
A dream to be remembered forever.This book is packed full of sketched illustrations in color.
This is a beautiful Christmas book that can be read by all ages and any time of the year.5*****
A wordless masterpiece, which I experienced first through the silent film, with this original introduction.
If you are the least down today, see this now:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZE9Kp...But I have the book right here, too.
I must have read and seen this first in 1999, when Sammy was born.
This is one of the virtues of getting older and rereading favorite picture books, reliving those memories.The musical score is gorgeous.We have an early snow here in Chicago, piles of the stuff, snow on snow on snow, as they say, that I glance at as I read the book as the film rolls and the music play.
Childhood anemones.
How can one review a book like The Snowman, a story without words?
Like Heidi it tells of a bond, this time between a little boy and the snowman he builds one wintry afternoon in his garden.
By magic it comes to life; by magic the boy and the snowman fly.It was made into an animated film by Channel 4, one of our terrestrial television companies, with a sublime score by Howard Blake.
I so wanted to fly like the boy, to go to the North Pole and dance with Father Christmas and all of the other snowmen.
Truly beautiful wordless picture book.the story is about a little boy who builds a snowman which comes to live during the night.they spend a night together playing and having fun, then the snowman takes the boy on a magical journey to see the world...I really enjoyed this book and would strongly recommend it to everyone.
This was a beautiful, gentle story that translated into a magnificent cartoon with music but without words that airs on tv every Christmas in the UK. This book was a real sea change for Briggs whose previous cartoon books include a doleful biography of his parents to their death, nuclear war and creatures that love boogers - much more dark humour than this magical tale of the snowman.
I always really liked this book (so I should have voted 4 stars), but this past winter my 13-year-old son Alma (Down Syndrome, autism) fell in love with it.
He reads it daily, and wants me to read it with him sometimes.
He loves that we can pull out the video or turn the soundtrack on on Spotify.
When I watch him, he adores the pages drawn comic-style, with 16 boxes of sequential art per page.
So now I love this book.
Yes, I wish Alma could talk, but a wordless picture book is such a good match that I'm grateful for a genre that 'speaks' to my boy.
A wordless beginner book that tells a magical story of a boy and his snowman.
My Nephew loves this story and it might be why he still loves snowmen so much.
The pair of the boy and snowman share a magical evening together exploring the world and flying through the night.
It must have been a really warm day because that snowman melted away really really fast.
It is told in panels like a comic so I think this story was ahead of its time.
My Nephew gave this 5 stars and my Niece gave it 3 stars.
It's a lovely gentle book.
It's difficult to review a book of which there are no words, and instead the story is told through a series of beautiful illustrations. I remember being captured by the magical world of The Snowman, and equally impressed by the tv adaption. For younger children, the tv version is perhaps more suited until they are old enough to appreciate the beauty of the wordless story.
خب... چند دقيقه بيشتر طول نكشيد كه خوندمش.... يعني كتاب مصور بود و با چشم، خوندمش...... ولي اثر لذت بخش و خوبي داشت كه برام مي مونه...... عاشق كتاباي فانتزي و تخيلي و كتابهاي كودكانم...... يك جور خيلي عجيب و غريبي كه براي خودم هم سواله چرا و اين همه علاقه به اين حيطه از كجا اومده.؟
I know that Raymond Brigg's The Snowman is considered a modern classic (and probably one of the first really universally popular wordless picture books).
To me, the illustrations actually seem mostly rather vague and washed-out (lacking both expression and boldness of style), and the story sequence itself, while definitely fun and imaginative, has always seemed a bit too outrageous and unbelievable, at least for my personal taste.
should therefore be vigilant and prepared to discuss this if the snowman's demise, if his melting away appears to actually bother readers or listeners).
English artist and picture-book creator Raymond Briggs, whose comic-book tale of a grouchy Father Christmas won the Kate Greenaway Medal in 1973, utilized the same style (sans words) in this story of a boy and his snowman, first published in 1978.
Waking up in the middle of the night, he discovers that the snowman has come to life, and the two have a magical series of adventures together, exploring all the wonders of the boy's house, and then flying through the night sky.This classic picture-book was made into an animated film in 1982 - apparently The Snowman is shown annually on British TV, during the Christmas season - and is a childhood favorite for many readers.
Se trezește în miez de noapte și iese afară la omul de zăpadă care prinde viață din senin.Acela este momentul în care începe o minunată prietrenie între băiat și omul de zăpadă.
Mi s-a părut minunat stilul autorului și m-a ajutat să călătoresc în timp și să plutesc printre fulgii de nea alături de omul de zăpadă.O poveste înduioșătoare dedicată în special copiilor care poate fi citită în orice anotimp, Omul de zăpadă este acea carte care pune accent pe copilărie într-un mod cu totul aparte.
I used to read this book to my son, who recently turned 21.
I came across a copy recently and was reminded of just how devastatingly beautiful the story is.
I'm no artist, but it looks like it was done in colored pencil, which gives the snow and sky a surreal, dreamy texture.
The real innovation is the wordlessness.
I remember how my son and I used to just look at the pictures without talking, like we intuitively (telepathically maybe?) understood the story.
He was a big fan of the video, too, except the ending always made him cry.
This has to be one of my favourite children's books of all time.The book has no words but is a story told with pictures.The artwork is beautiful and really catches a child's attention.A very special book. Recommended.
When I picked this book I already knew I was going to love it because I have read a graphic novel by Raymond Briggs and was intrigue by the contents of the story and using drawings to illustrate a person's life.This book has no words which was a surprise but it doesn't ruin the story.
I believe Raymond Briggs used to this tactic to make sure everyone from all ages both young and old can appreciate it and discover that you do not need words to tell a story.
So this would be my second time reading a silent book which is full of colorful sequential artworks. There’s no word written other than the pictures. Even though it wasn’t as detailed as  Shaun Tan's  The Arrival, I've enjoyed it. The story of a little boy and his snowman was truly heartwarming!
One of the great love stories. David spends a magical night with the Snowman; the next morning, he has melted. He'd think it was a dream, except that he still has the scarf in his pocket. No words, they'd only complicate things.
I was very curious to finally read Raymond Brigg's The Snowman as I know it's something of a classic, and the cover looks familiar so it's possible I was read this story as a child, though I did not remember it.
When the snowman makes discoveries around the boy's house it reminded me so much of my son and how even the littlest things (turning on a light switch, discovering the chill when the refrigerator door opens) are amazing and thrilling.
The illustrations are just so full of expression, such as when the boy simply cannot sleep over wanting to be with his snowman.
Cute pictures. No words at all. The pictures tell the story of a nighttime adventure of a snowman and a boy. I liked the contradiction pictures of what happens with hot vs cold objects but the story itself is found to be boring quickly, even for the kids I 'read' this with. Play some of the things they do in the picture are things kids should not do without a mature adult and I do not feel a curious, naive, uneducated snowman counts. Still the storybook pictures aren't bad for a quick run-through.
I found this very hard to read, because all the way through, I KNEW.
“The Snowman” is a true classic that everyone will love for many years!Raymond Briggs’ story about a boy and his snowman is told through his beautiful illustrations as this is one of the few books where there are no words narrating the story.
The images that stood out the most in this book were the images of the snowman and the boy soaring through the air and looking at the various places around the world while they are flying in the air.“The Snowman” is truly Raymond Briggs’ most memorable classic and many children will be entranced by the beautiful illustrations for the many years that they read this book.
This is a kind of child's dreaming that I can enjoy.
Being a wordless book (not good for storytimes!!!) and with the illustrations having a bit of a fuzzy crayon look to them, I may have misread some of the pictures.
Was the snowman laughing at the boy's picture and the boy was upset?
Why does the boy look mad about the snowman getting near the heating vent--shouldn't he look concerned?
Why doesn't the snowman like the flowers picture?
Still I enjoyed the book.
Especially with the flying together all over near the end.
A boy builds a snowman that comes to life. The story is told completely in pictures so the readers must use their imaginations to follow the adventures.I love doing artwork with children and I think these pictures would be a perfect springboard to making winter pictures. I love this one especially: I would ask my child or grandchild, "What can we use to make a snowy day on paper like this? Maybe draw the picture and find a way to fling some snow on the paper?"Try reading this book with your chil
The story is told completely in pictures so the readers must use their imaginations to follow the adventures.I love doing artwork with children and I think these pictures would be a perfect springboard to making winter pictures.
I would ask my child or grandchild, "What can we use to make a snowy day on paper like this?
Maybe draw the picture and find a way to fling some snow on the paper?"Try reading this book with your children that are too young to read or are just beginning to read to help them understand a little more about reading.
I only bought this because Tom Fletcher kind of recommended it and I think mentioned in the back of The Christmasaurus that he loved this as a kid. So of course I had to get this. I didn't know it was somewhat like a graphic novel though but loved it nevertheless. The Illustrations are absolutely stunning and the story is one of the cutest Christmas stories I've ever come across. This book will get you right into Christmas mood. Definitely recommend this, especially for children.
A charming wordless story, although somewhat sad. I was a bit concerned over how my son would take to the ending, so we kind of quickly brushed over it and moved on to the next thing. I remember seeing the animated version of the book, and I had pleasant memories from it.
I could never forget the form or face of this snowman from when I was little. I remember building one so similar when it actually snowed something like several feet and my sister and I were staying with Nana and Papa. Ours was shaped similarly but she was more like a female companion. This was one of the only snowmen then and now that don’t tick me off.I saw him on someone’s feed and got a warm feeling and said, “Oh, I remember you..”
The two become friends and the young boy decides to shows the snowman around the house, introducing him to household appliances, playing with his toys, whilst trying their best not to wake the boys parents up.
I loved how the boy was able to develop such a fantastic friendship with snowman and do things that he probably would not have been able to do without his parents supervision, i.e. ride a motorbike and take a flight into the forest, only to find him self at a party with Father Christams.
I also think this story would be a fantastic to inspire creative writing, particulalrly to those children who are between 6-7 years of age.
The story of "The Snowman" is a wordless picture book, and also one of my favorites.
This book tells the story of a young boy spending a snowy day outside in his yard building a giant snowman.
Then, the snowman takes the little boy on an adventure to show him all about his life.
In this morning, the little boy goes out to see that his snowman has melted.
The pictures themselves do an amazing job to tell this wordless story and I would highly recomend it as a holiday book to most any grade level!
