https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60466.The_End_of_Summer
Love Pilcher! Loved "The End of Summer" Rosamunde has a unique writing style which can be so absorbing that when you finally reach the final page you look around and the sun has come up! Fast paced, easily read, set in Scotland... What more could you possibly ask for?
I have pretty much loved every Pilcher book and to read this one and have it fall so short was a surprise.
"The End of Summer" has Jane Marsh returning to her grandmother's home in Scotland called Elvie.
Now that her father has a potential new love, Jane rushes home to Elvie and Sinclair.
I really didn't care who Jane chose even though there is a whole information dump via a character for you to find out about a character who has kept things hidden (not really, just read between the lines).
I read this out of a sense of nostalgia. I used to love Rosamund Pilcher's books. I still count Shell Seekers and September among my favourite books. It's not that I don't think her books are good anymore but reading this made me realise that her books appealed to me at a certain point in my life. Pilcher writes great characters and really makes me want to visit Scotland whenever I read one of her books but I think I shall leave her books in my memory from here on in.
A fine coming of age tale set in Northern California and the wilds of Scotland. A young lady gives up a free-wheeling life with her author father to return to her grandmother's country estate in Scotland. It's true that you can never really go home again. When she goes back to her beloved homeplace, she finds that she sees it all with an adult viewpoint. It's at once comforting and disconcerting. Jane will have to make some difficult decisions about her own life. The depiction of Scots country life is beautiful and evocative. I would love to go there someday!
Σχεδόν από την αρχή δικαιώθηκαν καθώς οι όμορφες περιγραφές του φθινοπωρινού τοπίου της Σκωτίας μου έφεραν στο νου τις κατάλληλες εικόνες για αυτή την εποχή που σύντομα θα είναι κοντά μας.
Όλα αυτά με έκαναν να συμπαθήσω πολύ αυτό το βιβλίο ενώ το τέλος της ιστορίας το βρήκα ιδιαίτερα ουσιαστικό καθώς αποκαλύπτει και έναν συμβολισμό του τίτλου, με το τέλος του καλοκαιριού να συμβαδίζει με το τέλος των ψευδαισθήσεων.
Ένα ιδανικό ανάγνωσμα για την εποχή, ένα βιβλίο για αυτούς που βλέπουν ρομαντισμό πίσω από τα απλά πράγματα όπως το τέλος του καλοκαιριού.
Pilcher is the kind of author whose words filter up off the page, circle around your brain caressing it, and then trickle down to your neck and shoulders, massaging every bit of stress and tension away. Lovely escape.

A very short book, not a patch on 'The Shell Seekers'.
The heroine, Jane, was really rather pathetic, she even had to ask for help to change dollars into pounds, she seemed to be the archetypal 'little woman' who had to have everything done for her.
Her grandmother asks her about her plans for a career but she hasn't any - she is 21 years old, I wasn't drawn to her at all.
Perhaps if it had been a longer book the characters could have been developed better, it was too long for a short story but really too short for a novel.
Flojita, flojita. Abordé esta novela llevada por el recuerdo nostálgico de la lectura, hace quizá demasiados años, de “Septiembre” y “Los buscadores de conchas”. Sin duda algo ha cambiado en estos años, y si no lo ha hecho la pluma de la señora Pilcher debo haber sido yo. “Al final del verano” es como un pastel de aire, no tiene nada dentro. El estilo es casi infantil y la historia simplemente no existe. Lamento haberla leído porque me hace dudar de la calidad de los libros de la autora leídos hace tanto tiempo. ¡Descorazonador!
It’s so nice to have Rosamunde Pilcher’s books available as audiobooks now! This one was not one of my favorites, but was still a very pleasant listen!
She sometimes dreams of going back home to Scotland, her grandmother and cousin, Sinclair.
One day while her father is away in LA, a lawyer comes to visit.
David wants her to return to Scotland for a visit.
That same day her father returns from LA with a woman.
Jane is a bit upset but decides to see if she can catch up with David and go to Scotland.
Jane goes back home and her life is never the same.I liked this book but once again I felt as if the romance was left out.
This is probably my least favorite of her short novels that I have read. A nice story, but to me it just felt like too many details were left to make a really good one. I almost felt like I was reading a condensed or abridged book, which I wasn't. I have read others of her short books and not felt that way. I usually love her books even though they are quite predictable (the shorter ones anyway). Anyone who loves Pilcher will want to read it anyway.
I almost abandoned it after reading two chapters, being Scottish I got annoyed at the descriptions regarding kilt wearing and frumpy warm sweaters ! Which seem to suggest that everyone innScotland dresses like this ! Decided to finish it as its only a short story shouldn't have bothered , as I had already predicted how it would end. After reading The Shell Seekers which was wonderful ,this has left me flat !!
When we got back from our crazy, hectic weekend, I needed something peaceful to read. This is what I choose. I love Rosamunde Pilcher and have read everything she has written that I can possibly get my hands on. She is the only author I know who can write an entirely peaceful novel and still hold your interest. I always want to crawl inside her novels and take a nap.
Books by Rosamunde Pilcher she makes my heart feel good. There is a quality to her writing that takes me to the place of the story and I just want to sit for a cup of tea with the characters by the fire and eat a biscuit. This story did not disappoint.
Sweet, short, a little too short. As with most of her short novels, the end seems to come crashing down and little to contrived. Lovely story that could have been expanded to equal the caliber of her longer novels. I will read them all anyway. 3.5
A short, quick read by a favorite author. It was an ok read, but I didn't enjoy it nearly as much as her classic, "The Shell Seekers" and was eager to finish and move on to something else.
Fortunately for Jane, something happens to propel her forward with no initiative on her part.
Her grandmother in Scotland wants her to come back to her old home there and visit, and sends an emissary to pay her way because Jane's father has ignored his mother-in-law's requests.
When her father's lady love moves in to their small California beach shack, Jane decides to take up on the offer.She has always been enamored with her dashing first cousin back in Scotland and looks forward to seeing him again.
The love story could be seen from a mile off.
Κάτι όχι τόσο γνωστό επίσης ήταν η μετριοπαθής ανάλυση των χαρακτήρων που έκαμνε, έτσι ώστε να μην υπάρχουν μόνοπλευρα κακοί και καλοί, αλλά πολλές αποχρώσεις ενδιάμεσων χαρακτήρων, χωρίς να χάνουν την ικανότητα να προκαλούν το ενδιαφέρον και την ταύτιση του εκάστοτε αναγνώστη.Εδώ, σ’ αυτήν τη σύντομη ιστορία, κάτι τόσο απλό όσο η αγάπη μιας κοπέλας για έναν άντρα, συνδυάζεται με θαυμαστή οικονομία με την νοσταλγία της Αμερικανίδας για την γενέθλια γη της Σκοτίας.
Όμορφα δοσμένη ιστορία, με τα τραγικά και αναπάντεχα ευχάριστα στοιχεία της και οδηγεί σε ένα τέλος που η συγγραφέας γνωρίζει ότι θα ικανοποιήσει όλη την γκάμα των αναγνωστών της.
When her chance to do just that finally comes, Jane must come to terms with some long-buried family secrets.This is a short book, and not by any means the best example of Rosamunde Pilcher's work.
And by the number of cigarettes smoked by the young heroine!This is only for dedicated fans who want to read everything.
It's unlikely that anyone who reads this as their first book by Rosamunde Pilcher will be back for more, and that would be a shame.(And I wish we could've seen more of David!)
Αυτό είναι και το πρώτο βιβλίο της Πίλτσερ που διάβασα ποτέ.
Θυμάμαι, ως έφηβη, είχα εντυπωσιαστεί γιατί όταν το έπιασα στα χέρια μου ήταν αυτό ακριβώς που ήθελα να διαβάσω εκείνη τη στιγμή...
30% του βιβλίου είναι οι περιγραφές των τοπίων (της Σκωτίας κυρίως), 30% περιγραφή της καθημερινότητας και των συνηθειών των ηρώων και το υπόλοιπο ιστορία, ανάπτυξη χαρακτήρων κτλ.Ναι, δεν είναι το καλύτερο βιβλίο έβερ.
Αντικειμενικά δεν είναι καν το καλύτερο βιβλίο της Πίλτσερ.
Είναι ωστόσο το αγαπημένο μου της Ρόζαμουντ, γιατί με μεταφέρει κάπου αλλού, στην Σκωτία της φαντασίας μου, έτσι όπως μ' αρέσει να την φαντάζομαι, πίνοντας τσάι στην άκρη μιας λίμνης στις αρχές του Φθινοπώρου.
Here goes, 2nd attempt to save this:This is now my favorite of Pilcher's short books.
I wish the novel were about 100 pages longer, with more character growth and less insta love.
But true to Pilcher, this little gem is full of beautiful writing and interesting people.
And it's easy to forget how old this book is, because everyone in a Rosamunde Pilcher novel seems to live in a bygone era with personal servants and bird shooting parties.
Jane, the 21 yr old main character, would now be older than my mom.I'm running out of Rosamunde Pilcher books.
I acquired this book in the faculty room of the school that I work at.
It was up for grabs and thought this little paperback book was worth a read.
I thoroughly enjoyed the beautiful writing and rich descriptions and simply yet interesting story.
A young girl moves from her native Scotland to California with her father after her mother dies.
They live a kind of nomadic life (her father is a Hollywood film director) and after seven years returns to Scotland at the request of her grandmother.
The story continues with the joy of reunion, but also the shadows of untold family secrets.
This is a slight book, both in length and scope. It’s a pleasant read; all development is heavily foreshadowed and therefore predictable. I enjoyed it in the same way I might a holiday I didn’t do much in. The many descriptions of nature, decor and food are never disruptive but always evocative and are probably my favourite aspect. Inhabiting it was like going back and reading a nice 1950s children’s book which happened to be aimed at young adults.
A very small book but delightful and heart warming story typical of Rosamunde Pilcher. A simple tale of youth, love and loss, about accepting and welcoming the future. Characters you could love and one in particular you could despise. The Scottish highlands laid out in all their beauty a wonderful back drop to a charming story.
Had to have been one of her earlier books. I felt like it was a predictable story line. But, none the less it was a great read. Rosamunde Pilcher always painted such a beautiful scenic picture in her books. It transports you as the reader.
I read this little novel, appropriately, in the first days of September. I still far prefer Winter Solstice to anything else I've read by Rosamunde Pilcher, but I'll never tire of sweet stories with substantive characters set in the Scottish countryside.
I always think romance writers should steer clear of novellas. it's so strange that two people fall completely in love with each other after only two or three conversations. Longer novels allow relationships to develop properly. Still, it was a good read while I was trying to fall asleep at night.
3 1/2 stars. Always love RP books. This was good but not my favorite.
Updating Goodreads. I read all of Rosamunde Pilcher's books years ago, and loved every one!
