https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/342240.The_Cove
I enjoyed this detective novle very much. There were a lot of twists and turns. I will give you a full review later. I highly recommend this one.Enjoy and Be Blessed.Diamond
I remembered reading some Catherine Coulter books in my early teens (when finding my grandma's hidden romance novels and reading them under my blankets was still cool), and I think I enjoyed them at the time.
So, when I found this in a box of books I thought it might be good at least for a little frivolous reading.
Sally was insipid, James was cardboard, and despite the fact that I read the book last night I had to look up their names to write this review.
If that little gem hadn't come at the very end, it would probably have been what tossed the book into the DNF pile.
The twist about the father having plastic surgery (on himself and some poor victim) to disguise the fact that he hadn't really been murdered was good.
Overall, though, I found all the twists and turns to be implausible and too sordid for my taste--especially the whole bit about it being the [fake] father who was sexually and physically abusing Sally in the fake sanitarium.
the two main characters fell in love too fast, especially since they were both part of strange relationships previously; 2.
how would Aunt Amabel fall in love with her sister's abusive husband?; and 3.
FBI agent James shows up in "The Cove" and immediately is on to stealthy Sally.
Consequently, her pants are 'very tight' and her shirt barely buttons allowing many opportunities for shenanigans.Also, Coulter seems to think that creating characters that are FBI agents means that they have carte blanche to just do whatever in the hell they want - jaunt half-way across the country without checking in, steal witnesses and cozy them away in personal retreats, chase down random motorcycles and threaten them at gunpoint...
FBI Agent James Railey Quinlan who was looking for Susan to help the FBI in their investigation.
Susan thought she was safe with her Aunt and FBI Agent James Railey Quinlan thought his assignment was over.
The readers of The Cove will follow the twist and turns to see what happens to Susan and FBI Agent James Railey Quinlan.
I did like the twist that Catherine Coulter put into The Cove.
Also, the readers of The Cove will learn about running an ice creamery.
I do recommend this book if you enjoy a crime thriller with a difference.
The Cove by Catherine CoulterBook #1 on FBI Thriller2 StarsSynopsis:Sally Brainerd is on the run from an FBI agent, who believes she has information about her father’s murder, and from a sadistic doctor who wants to keep her quiet.
She seeks sanctuary in a picturesque town called the Cove but strange things are happening there and the townsfolk are not what they seem.
What is really going on in Sally’s life?Review:This is one of the worst plots I have ever read.
Even her name is puzzling – is she Sally or Susan?I will not be continuing with the series.
This was my first Catherine Coulter book and very disappointing.
Sally Brainerd escapes from a mental institution where she was put after finding her father (a wife beater and arms dealer) murdered, and James Quinlan is the FBI agent hot on her trail.
She ends up in the Cove, a quaint little picture postcard town that sells the World's Greatest Ice Cream.
It turns out everyone in town (only senior citizens reside there) is a serial killer.
The only believable and funny character is Dillon Savich, another FBI agent.
- pass this book up.
UNPUTDOWNABLE!
was totally awesome!
The way the characters play with the mind of the main character, Sally, in turn, Coulter's playing with the reader's as well, and I love how she twisted that in the story.
Coulter worded her story so precisely that I could actually see this happening in real life, and that's the way a good book should be written.
I love how Sally and James come together in this story, and how both used their gut instincts, something I usually do myself.
Highly recommended as an awesome, UNPUTDOWNABLE read!
I really need to change my habits and learn to toss a stupid book. This was AWFUL. My mom suggested I read Catherine Coulter for a "light, fast read". It was light alright. The characters are all morons. The dialogue is overly wordy and downright childish. This book had two plots and both were absolutely ridiculous. SPOILER - a whole town of elderly mass murderers?!? Geez. I'll have to give my mom some grief about this. I'm hoping given the number of books that this woman has written, that I just picked the first and the worst?
FINALLY I am done reading this book. Only my personal rule to finish all the books I start kept me going. This read like a bad soap opera to me. It took SO long for anything to happen, and the dialog was very repetitive. The only good thing I can say is that the ending did tie up all the ends.
In one the heroine is subjected to an older husband who rapes her and grossly sexually abuses her, and the hero in the other is a complete and total A-hole.
Or is he her father?No, the other storyline is she runs to her aunt in a small, Stepford-like town where (view spoiler)[the elderly people have been offing other elderly and well-off tourists in order to keep the town going.
I enjoyed the ones I read, and I know they hit the NYT bestseller list, so I thought I would start at the beginning and read it all the way through to the present.
We are not given the details to start off with in regards to where Sally was being held and why.
She doesn't remember the details of the night he was killed, but she knows she was there.FBI agent James Quinlan, is after Sally.
If you ever decided to read this series start to finish, be prepared for a sub-par beginning.
Coulter is a romance writer that has broken out into the mainstream; this book was found in the mystery section.
Blessedly, the book lacked the romance genre's purple prose descriptions of the protagonists, but it did have a bad habit of head-hopping that by Chapter Four was seriously getting on my nerves.
However, the book also had an intriguing mystery that was pulling me in and had me firmly hooked by Chapter Ten. Unfortunately, the plot holes kept growing until they became a yawing plot gorge.
To give one example not a spoiler, the hero, an FBI agent, more than once talked about how his gun was on a hair-trigger.
I got this book a long time ago from PaperBackSwap and having no recollection what it was about, I put it in my bag as an option to read while I was in Texas.
I really miss reading a couple books a week and hope this will kick-start me on reading again.The Cove is a small town Sally escapes to after the murder of her father.
In the meantime, strange things happen in The Cove which can’t easily be explained and James finds he has another mystery on his hands.My description probably sounds boring, but this book was anything but.
There is so much I dislike about this book that I can't take the time to write it.
It was ok until about the middle when the first plot was pretty much resolved.
The second plot (the old people in the town killing everyone and getting away with it) was just plain stupid.
It felt as if the book was written by two different people or maybe I just wasn't paying as much attention during the first half.
When the author has resolved the mystery I don't want them to repeat it over and over again (Beadermeyer explained, her father explained, the FBI agents explained, etc.) I got it the first time.I didn't even read the last few pages.
It's an ok read but certainly couldn't come close as good as in Death series, sigh..
So bad. had nothing else to read over thanksgiving and picked this up. thin characters, predictable (yet outrageously impossible) plot, and mediocre writing
I chose this book on a whim to have something playing in the background while I did some pretty intense house cleaning. Although it was good as "background noise", I am not enticed to continue the series.It got pretty hokey fairly early on. Nowhere in the neighborhood of believable at almost any point, so don't go into this one without a healthy ability to suspend your disbelief.
I don't like it when an author has to prove to me that they did research - for example, having a character talk about something that has nothing to do with the story but is a casual reference to a place or person that is mentioned.
For example, Quinlan refers to an element of "the extensive 12-week FBI training at Quantico" at least three times.
There were so many annoying little things as well - the habit of always referring to a character's first and last names, few scenic aspects, disjointed dialog, repetitive plot points.
I have once read a book in this series Eleventh Hour and I wasn't impressed.
This one was slightly better but still I read some greater ones.
The romance part was rather poor and totally undeveloped.
The idea of insta love and 'I don't know you but would you marry me' was more annoying than grabbing.
I just couldn't believe in any feeling between Sally and James who were completely strangers to each other.
Still, both mystery parts were interesting enough to keep me reading this book.Three stars for being a quick and easy read but more like two and a half.
Sally, a girl on the run.FBI Special Agent James Quinlan, trying to help the girl on the run.Sheriff David Montebank, keeping law and order in a town called, "The Cove."What a story. The action raced at Indi 500 speed, only to pause for a pit stop, then back on the track we went. What a setting. Beautiful place that was home to the "world's greatest ice cream" - The Cove. As the reader seen early on, something is not right in paradise. But the old folk were so nice.I'm already looking forward to the next book in the series.
I read an article on Smart Bitches Trashy Books about authors people refuse to read, many said Coulter.
I was like "Hm, I have one of her books".
When I first started reading it, I was like "This isn't so bad, it might qualify for my decent trash book shelf".
Just countless bizarre things.I was going to use this as my Oregon book for Read The World, but I want a better book for it.
A lot of it was set in DC anyway.I did like that Doc Spiver's cat was named Forceps.
This was my first FBI thriller by Catherine Coulter and I just loved it.
She did not know who to trust, or how to protect herself.
FBI special agent James Quinlan followed Sally to The Cove and began to work with her in order to find out the truth about what she had seen or done upon the murder of her father.
He worked to gain her trust while being untruthful about his reasons for stumbling up on her.
It is a great thriller, mystery that keeps you wanting to know more.
I loved it!
Sally Brainerd escaped from an asylum just in time to wonder if she was the one that killed her father.
FBI Special Agent James Quinlan was sure that if Sally didn't kill her father, she would know who did, so he tracked her down.
After meeting and talking to Sally, James wasn't at all convinced she could kill her own father and in the process the sleepy little town of The Cove has 2 murders of their own.The basic story of James, FBI man, finding then changing his mind about Sally, insane murder suspect, was a great classic romance story.
Each story stands alone, but as a series, characters that appear in #1, appear in #2.
The FBI get a bum rape on television fiction as the bad guys that come in and take over from the local officials.
In this series they are very good at what they do and at the same time very cooperative with local officials.
The characters are sometime super-human, but this is fiction, the plots always moving quickly.
Each of the 5 stories has a finish most would not see coming but there are hints of it from time to time.
It was like a long , long , long drive that didn't take me anywhere .
The Cove by Catherine Coulter is the 1st book in her FBI thriller series.
"Special Agent James Quinlan has arrived in The Cove, looking for Sally Brainerd.
The Cove is home to the "World's Greatest Ice Cream", but Quinlan also has a funny feeling about the town.
What about Sally's aunt?
Why won't anyone believe her?"Coulter tells a great story with a lot of balls in the air, but she finds a way to tie it all together.
This book is very easy to read - reminds me of Baldacci's style.
Good one from Coulter.
I found the writing to be jerky, the dialogue to be a bit unrealistic and the story dragged on. It did keep me reading to see "who did it" though. The characters could've used alot more development; I didn't identify with any of them!
I had high expectations for this author. I thought I read a lot of great things about her work. I found it to be average I am sorry to say. I didn't find this story to be amazing. I thought it was a bit stretched, but not too far from credible. I found it readable. I didn't think it was great. I think it was okay. The writing itself was fine. The characters were interesting. I just don't think the pace and tension were to my liking.
Plot: 3/5Characterisation: 2/5Prose: 3/5How much I enjoyed it: 2/5I was looking for a police procedural story and remembered this series from long ago. It's been years since I read a Catherine Coulter but I don't remember the book being this bad. The premise of the plot was interesting but I cringe at the numerous plot holes. Uninspiring characters, although, I think the style of writing is to be blame for that.
