https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/192889.Striding_Folly
These include the title story and The Haunted Policeman, both of which were previously published in 1939, while the final story, “Talboys,” remained unpublished until this edition.This year, I finally read all of the Wimsey novels and, although I have not yet read the Jill Paton Walsh ‘sequels.’ Therefore, it seemed essential to include this collection and, even though there are only three stories in this book, I thought they were very much worth reading.
However, the next two stories feature Lord Peter Wimsey very much as a main character and also as a family man.
I seem to have a bit of a mental block with Dorothy Sayers, and each time I have tried one of her full length novels I have to give up; the characters just don't seem to work together for me. I thought I was being to harsh on a well known and well loved writer, so I decided to have a go at her shorter stories. I must say I was impressed, Wimsey is rather amusing and the stories were sharp and to the point. I think it was a good choice to go shorter.
A lightweight set of three stories all featuring Lord Peter Wimsey with an enjoyable Introduction. Lord Peter is shown as married with a growing family in the second and third stories and these make an interesting contrast to the meatier content of Jill Paton Walsh's later additions to the series which I've been reading recently.
What great fun this slim collection of three Lord Peter Wimsey tales is! Having never read Dorothy L. Sayers before, I feel as if I have cheated my younger self for not having explored her writings when I was a boy. Conversely, perhaps it is best that I did not read these stories as a young and impressionable lad. Methinks I would have mined these stories for high jinks best left undone. This will certainly not be my last encounter with Lord Peter Wimsey! HIGHLY RECOMMENDED
The final 3 short stories about Lord Peter. I much preferred the second 2 (The Haunted Policeman & Talboys) to the somewhat odd first story (Striding Folly). I particularly liked the way Lord Peter and his eldest son worked together at the end of Talboys!
There they had treated him with great humanity, and allowed him to clean the silver."The Characters Lord Peter Wimsey has been married to Harriet Vane for a year now.
It's a judgment that horrifies Miss Quirk who expostulates at length on the subject…until the shoe is on the other foot, lol.Oh, I did enjoy Peter's dealings with his son, and I had to laugh at Harriet's placid explanation of Bredon's sense of being promoted to a cane.
Free download available at Faded Page.Opening lines:‘Shall I expect you next Wednesday for our game as usual?’ asked Mr Mellilow.‘Of course, of course,’ replied Mr Creech.
Next Wednesday as usual.
‘There may be a man coming to see me.
In that case, I’ll come on Thursday.’3* The Man Born to Be King: A Play-Cycle on the Life of Our Lord and Saviour Jesus ChristTR The Travelling RugTR The Wimsey PapersTR A Treasury of Sayers StoriesTR Are Women Human?
Sayers.
Vol. 1, 1899-1936: The Making of a Detective NovelistLord Peter Wimsey series:4* Whose Body?
These are really well done: the first is weirdly creepy and the last is hilarious. But it serves to remind me why I like novels - which I can sink into, and which aren't already finished right after they've begun.
It's all of the marvellous lines and witty observations, all of the clever plots, and none of the casual racism and oddness.
That's what they are - odd, and not in a particularly pleasing way.
The stories in 'Striding Folly' are neither one thing nor the other - they feel like chapters of something longer, rather than good stand-alone stories in their own right.
Honestly, it feels like they were half-ready, stories from Sayers' private notebook of ideas or something, rather than publishable works.
By all means, if you're a fan of Sayers' work, read this, because it has her fingerprint.
The titular tale in this collection is a case in point of why I don't really care for detective short-stories.
It's all a little bit too pat, too glib, with Lord Peter appearing suddenly at the end as the Deus Ex Machina that knows all, tells all, sees all.
"Tallboys" while amusing as a family story, isn't much of a mystery and far too much of a domestic comedy.(Of course Lord Peter could only sire males...God forbid he should have a girl!
No wonder these tales didn't see the light of publication until 1972, though their author died in 1957.
Three short stories:I like Sayers' characters and her style, but reading a story or novella is different from a longer book, for me at least."Striding Folly" depended too much on a psychic dream to please me.
1.5 stars"The Haunted Policeman" relied on Whimsey's knowledge of an obscure piece at a museum, and I didn't really see why his mind jumped to that solution rather than some other possibility, so I wasn't a fan of this either.
this was a charming story that really lets the reader look into how Peter and Harriet function as parents I also liked that heir son gave them the final clue to the solution.
Vintage Wimsey.
Here Sayers puts Peter and Harriet firmly on the side of "spare the rod, spoil the child" and features the abominable Miss Quirk as the irritating, foolish and completely obtuse house guest who drones on about the consequences of restrictions and limits, and how they will breed resentment and subversive behaviour in young and impressionable minds.
Come on!)The second story has a charming little spot of dialogue between Peter and Harriet and some of the house staff on the eve of the birth of their first child.
This is a bit of a generous five stars, but SO WORTH IT for the last story. These are three stories, all Peter, and the second two are set post-marriage to Harriet.So, yes, run off and read it, if you haven't, my friends!
This is a book of Sayers' last three Lord Peter short stories. I found the second and third story very appealing, but thought the first in the book was not up to her usual standard. It was still a relaxing read.
The last in this collection, Talboys, is just great, especially as a commentary on parenting.
I only read the first story, Striding Folly. Loved it. A chess player, waiting for a visit from his weekly opponent, has a dream about a murder and wakes to find he's accused of it
(The former was fine as well, but it could really have happened anywhere in the Lord Peter short story canon; the last two were more of a bookend to the series.) I also appreciated the essay on Sayers and her work at the beginning.I think I am going to wait until next year to begin rereading the series in full (perhaps in chronological order this time, and yes, even the dreaded Five Red Herrings).
Having said that, some of the same surreal quality is seen in the second story ("The Haunted Policeman"), told through two viewpoints - that of Wimsey, who has stayed up late while his wife is giving birth, and a local copper (P C Burt) who Wimsey has lured in to tell of the odd events of the night.
The final story reads as allegory about the role of society and the family in the rearing of children, with interferring society embodied in the visiting Miss Quirk, who neither Wimsey nor his wife Harriet seem to have any real connection with, but who has been foisted upon them.
Striding Folly is a collection of 3 Wimsey short stories: Striding Folly, The Haunted Policeman, and Talboys.The first story, Striding Folly, is set at an indeterminate time in Wimsey's life.
Wimsey just shows up to clear everything up.The Haunted Policeman occurs immediately after the birth of Peter and Harriet's first son, Bredon.
Exhausted but exhilarated, Peter is up in the middle of the night, celebrating the birth of his son and his relief that Harriet is okay, only to be told a strange story by a passing policeman.
The nominal mystery is the theft of Mr. Puffett's peaches, but it's really just an opportunity for Sayers to depict Peter as a father--firm but mischievous.
Three curious short storiesBy Charles van Buren on March 1, 2018Format: Kindle Edition|Verified PurchaseIn reading some of the other reviews on Amazon it became apparent that some people have purchased this volume without understanding what they were getting.
This volume consists of three short stories, said to be the final Lord Peter Wimsey stories, a short biography of Sayers and some photographs of Sayers.
Whether or not Lord Peter fans will like the stories is another matter.
Instead it shows the curious English custom of, once upon a time, using that word to refer to most non-white people.
What we have here are three short stories, all quite different from each other and charming in their own way but also fairly ephemeral...
Striding Folly is barely a short story at all, it's so bare-bones it almost reads like a wikipedia summary of another novel...
It's got a clever "trick" behind it's howdunnit mystery, but without any of the red-herrings or other embellishments you expect from crime fiction it doesn't really add up to much.
The last one in the collection, Tallboys isn't really a mystery at all, it's a slice of domesticity that skirts the border of tweeness.
A charming little novella with three short stories that didn't even total 100 pages.
Striding Folly itself was just okay, with Lord Peter only there to provide the brains to solve the mystery.
The Haunted Policeman gives us Lord Peter becoming a father for the first time, and solving a perplexing puzzle the same day.
Peter's interactions with his eldest son, who was born in the previous story, is exactly how I what I would have expected.
As short as these stories are, the second and third in this collection are now some of my favorites.
Early Bird Books Deal | A nice wrapping-up for those who are a fan of the series, not worth paying full price for.
By the time I had read most of the Wimsey books, I was just happy to spend more time with the characters, and that's what this short book is.
These are not mind-bending puzzlers, they are not deep character studies, there isn't much meat to them, to be honest.
But if you've read all the others, and you're missing the people who populated the series, and if you can pick this one up on discount (as I did), it's worth grabbing it just for the joy of being reunited.
Again, I realize this was written circa WWII (though Sayers didn't publish it in her lifetime), but between the racism and the child-abuse-as-parenting advocacy, it's not going to be one I re-read.
(And don't get me started on the unexpected shift from the casual, thoughtless -isms perpetrated by Lord Peter in the rest of the series to outright sociopathic behavior in the third story, Talboys.
I suspect that Sayers wrote Talboys to vent frustration at a certain type of person, and had no intention that the story ever see the light of day...or at least I hope that was the case.)
Three short stories.
The first one I enjoyed quite a lot, filled with dreams with meaning, chess, and a suspicious superintendent proved wrong on the facts by Lord Peter.
The second story was barely readable, given the rampant racism expressed in the story - characters drop the "n-word" at the drop of a hat to describe the Indian servant of a former British Army colonel.
and the third was a fairly light story showing Harriet Vane and Lord Peter with three boys of various ages - and the eldest is getting into trouble (and their visitor is making trouble).
I don't think its fair to call these his *most* baffling cases, since in all three he turns up, takes one look an narrates the crime as if he'd been there. However, the solving of the crime is never why one reads a Wimsey, but the character, language, social history and humour...I genuinely properly laughed at 'answers to Cuthbert' and the idea of a new dad being so distraught that the servants let him clean the silver as a de-stresser was just wonderful. I will not be satisfied until I have read them all!
This collection of the last three Wimsey short stories written by Dorothy L Sayers together with an introduction by Elizabeth George and a fabulous, informative and insightful essay on the relationship between Sayers and her creation by Janet Hitchman is a must for Wimsey completists (and especially the Wimsey/Vane shippers)but the casual racism, anti-semitism and defence of corporal punishment is very much of its time and did affect my enjoyment.
I forgot how much I loved the Peter Wimsey series! These were three really fun, but short stories. My personal favourite is the last one, as I feel like this one is the most Wimsey-like in the entire book. It's a really fun and quick read, but with no murders in it, so if you are here for a good murder mystery, this isn't it. If you are looking for something light and fun to read for whatever reason that you need one (be it a holiday read or maybe you are in a reading slump) this is perfect!
Wimsley's Wonderful WaysLord Peter Wimsey is such a delightful detective that the wonderful mysteries by Dorothy L. Sayers are worth reading for his character development alone. These three short stories are unique and invoke Ms. Sayers' sardonic sense of humor. I strongly recommend this extraordinary book for anyone interested in the historical beginnings of the modern mystery.
