https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/420183.Black_Tickets
It’s beautiful, unsettling and reckless.
It’s an acerbic masterpiece which recoils at the thought of refinement and perfection.
It’s like a foreign movie that seeks stories in closed bars and communicates the stench of empty bottles.
The sun looked like the moon, dim, layered over.It’s like those solitary travelling in the early hours of morning when night and day dissolves into indifference.
It’s enough.
And while I’m sleeping in that hot bed everything I ever thought of having falls into em.It’s like a musical riddle with teasing directions.
If someone asked me to describe Flannery O'Connor as music, I'd refer them to classic blues and hard-edged folk like Son House and Leadbelly and early Dylan.
If someone asked me to describe Jayne Anne Phillips' Black Tickets as music, I'd sit her down with a playlist that included a narrow band of blues/post-blues tunes infused with rock and punk, like Peter Green's Fleetwood Mac doing I Loved Another Woman , Catpower singing Robert Johnson's Come on in My Kitchen , PJ Harvey doing Dylan's Highway 61, Catpower again doing Tom Waits' Yesterday is Here , Lightnin Hopkins doing Katie May and Frisco Blues, Rickie Lee Jones doing the Hendrix tune Up From the Skies, Patti Smith doing This Dead City.
Ground-breaking, brilliant, masterful.I'm sure many writers have been inspired by the stories in this collection.
Phillips published these stories in the 70's, the style of which now seem to be all over the internet.
I have to admit that there were two stories that befuddled me at their ends (as a lot of these short-short stories in general seem to do to me) but I still think that's my lack of perception and not the author's fault.Two of the stories also seem to have the same female lead character but with different names (and even have the characters relating the same anecdote unless I'm confusing that with Machine Dreams which I read recently) , but that's a very minor quibble; I'm sure these numerous stories were written over a span of many years.The strength of Phillips' writing is in her amazing way of painting a complete picture with just a few words -- absolutely amazing.I loved "1934" and "Snow," and the final story left me breathless.
I live to find books like this.
Sometimes it feels like I'll never find another book that hits me hard, ever again and then I do and my faith is restored.
The only reason I want to live to be old, old, old is so that I might find every good book in the world and experience what I felt with reading this, it was amazing.Some of the stories lost me but I think that had more to do with my lack of focus than anything else but there were several stories that pained me because they were so good.
I'm embarrassed to say I had not read the complete book before, just the shorter stories in various anthologies. While I had always enjoyed her brief ones, I was blown away by the longer ones. I can only imagine why this book is not taught more in Lit classes, perhaps because of the very gritty content, but it should be. It's a real lesson on what can be done with the English language and with narrative voice. I was less entranced by the title story than by some of the others, such as Country. Simply brilliant.
So thrilled to have found JAP. She certainly gives Mary Gaitskill a run for her money. Dark, sexy, surreal stories, this was a real joy to read. Also, this must have been some of the first flash fiction, back in 1975. Great collection, off to read more of her work.
If anyone is interested where poetry meets prose, this is where it begins. Astonishingly forward and musical. The beat, the hum of her writing, it is like the beating of one's heart.
This is her first collection.
With early stories, there's a sense of adventurousness--but there can also be pretense and self-indulgence.
Some of the stories are so oblique and almost intentionally confusing that I found myself wishing a given story would end.
The technique is hit and miss.
Phillips often writes about sex--the dirtier and sleazier the better.
There are no cotillions or country clubs in these stories; they're all set in the worst parts of the worst towns.
I like that.
What I don't like is relying purely on style, atmosphere and setting.
The details are good--poetic even--but most of these stories are just vignettes.
read this one AGES ago, but I just added Christie Malry's Own Double entry, because it was one of the few books that made me laugh out loud (and to cry as well), and on that flip side, I add, Jayne Anne Phillips's short story collection, Black Tickets.
a story for another time!), and there was announcement for JAP's reading of this work.
but still another day for that.but this book hit me as a landslide.
I had read other deep books, but chiefly from other eras..
I just don’t believe that if these were published today for the first time they’d inspire the same accolades.
And isn't that the test of a classic, standing the test of time?The use of shock and rawness as a literary device used in some of these stories was valid and useful when written but have lost their effectiveness.
Where she was more successful at engaging me was with the straight forward story telling of familial relationships.
These classic family dramas were worthy of the accolades Snow and Souvenir.
This collection walks a tightrope wire of dense, lyrically visceral prose. As such, it is a bit uneven. Certain stories sing with a meld of memory and present, others seem too unmoored. Many of the stories are so brief that they seem to be portraits: a quick, charcoal sketch, drawn in furious haste. I have mixed feelings on whether or not they are successful.Still, I give this collection 4 stars because when it works, it really works, and I found myself provoked and challenged, even by the lesser stories.
Books don't just consist of words on a page, every reader brings their own life stories, perceptions and context to every book they read. That may be why I did not enjoy "Black Tickets". I was reading these short stories in various doctors offices, E.R.s and hospital rooms. I don't recommend this as hospital reading. It's dark. Even I could see that the author does a good job with parent/grown child relationships, and certain stories were strong, but the rest felt like swimming in mud.
Great collection of short stories that exhibit impressive economy. Sparse punctuation, no quotes, plenty of fragments. Often stories lasted no more than a three paragraphs over two pages. A must-read for any one interested in the art of conveying more with less.
Hard, hard short stories written by a native West Virginian. They speak to the lives of our most disenfranchised and they are disturbing. I will probably re-read at some point because I could sense an arc to the stories that may merit further exploration.
This gets raves from others, but I couldn't stand it and quit reading after finishing about a third of it. For a book that's supposed to be a classic, I found it unreadable. I do appreciate writers who privilege voice--George Saunders, for example--but here, Phillips seems to me to privilege the stylized voices of downtrodden and/or nasty characters over making actual narrative sense. The result to me was, for the chunk I read, the intimation of unrelenting awfulness happening somewhere to someone inchoate--hard to grasp what the hell's even going on, much less to care.
This collection of stories have a common theme: they're either very dark or very raw (and sometimes both). Phillips' imagery is vivid and her stories are engaging, but many will make you work to discern their meaning. I enjoyed most of these stories, though a few left me feeling like I missed something. Perhaps this collection caught me at a time when I'm feeling too lazy to do the requisite analysis.
Horrible. People actually like this crap? After a few trying paragraphs I knew it wasn't for me. It was like a child wrote it. Well, the style anyway. The majority of the subject matter (I think?) was disgusting and full of gross sexual material. It made me feel dirty and disgusted that anyone would write this and call it entertainment.
Dirty surrealist? Maybe, sometimes.
I feel a little bad about giving this book only three stars, but it suffers from something which almost all single-author collections of short stories suffer from: reading so many stories consecutively by the same author saturates the ear and causes the authorial voice to become repetitive.Jane Anne Phillips loves certain descriptive formulations: [body part] under [cloth type]; something that has nothing to do with sex called sexual; the sun is something else (moon, a ring, bees); light does something un-lightlike such as bend, wave, or warp; a detailed description of skin which is pale or translucent and has burst veins.But rather than focus on the negative, let me highly recommend to you these three stories from this collection which, rated by themselves are five stars:1.
Aside from "1934" and "El Paso" (which I add begrudgingly, as it did almost the same thing as "1934" except poorly), Black Tickets is a series of eye-rolling, "look at me using the word 'cunt' in the 70's" imagery stacked up on top of itself for no apparent reason.
When Phillips can avoid talking about licking someone's thighs or wafting in the stars or grinding inside another being, she's not a bad writer.
Her writing is just amazing - very descriptive, almost poetic but very dark at the same time.These are thematically linked short stories and vignettes; a look into the lives of those going through some (generally dark or less pleasant) transformation.
Yet most of them are hopeful, and she's a really great storyteller.This is a really great read; I'd say it should be on college reading lists (at least for English majors) but some of the stories could offend.
This is compelling, great writing that's sort of like staring at the sun - it hurts, it sears your brain, but you can't look away.
The first half of this was slow-going for me (aside from "Home"); and I struggled with what sort of rating to give this book.
However, things did improve later on, "Gemcrack" was written in the same style as the aforementioned stories but the elements came together better; "Slave" tells an entire story in two pages quite well; and "The Heavenly Animal," "Snow," and "Country" are my favourites in the book (I also enjoyed "1934.") So 4 stars seems fair, and I'm glad I got to experience the diversity of Phillips' writing style.
Wow, did not live up to the hype. Made it 3/4 of the way through. A very quick read, could easily be finished in a day. Phillips' style of writing.... has no style. It's overly clipped and simple, but not in an evocative way like Hemingway. Her subject matter is often fairly provocative in an "every day life" type of way, but I was not generally engaged by the stories, with the exception of one or two. Pretty average.
I likes the stories although they were quite dark and the themes throughout the book were, to be honest, pretty vulgar and sick. This was juxtaposed with such an emotionally removed, almost detached and matter-of-fact, narration that the stories were interesting to read. However, I realize in reading this that I am not a short story person. I'm always left wanting to know more and am not satisfied with leaving it to my imagination. I like novels. That's why this
Abysmal. After having read the great writers who concerned themselves honestly--one looks at the photos of Phillips and cannot believe she has ever taken a drug or fallen into any other dissolute behavior--with such tales, her writing seems dishonest, boring, and there is no real point to any of it. It is painful to read, not because of what is portrayed, but because it rings hollow and the writing is terrible.
Her language is so lush, so exquisite. In some of the early stories in this collection, the language seems to dominate; the voices of the characters from one story to the next were not clearly demarcated. In the best of these stories, though, the language opens us up to worlds and characters who are socially marginalized. And her flash fictions that punctuate the longer stories are some of the best in the collection.
I love Jayne Anne Phillips. Reading her work is like entering a dream. You forget to breathe. You read sentences over and over for their beauty. With surgical precision Phillips exposes the underbelly of life in these stories. They are not romantic. The characters are not heroic. There are no neat endings. The stories in BLACK TICKETS just quietly burn. They are disturbing but brilliantly so. They will stay under your skin.
A dazzling first story collection, shocking when it was published. Not all of the stories have stood the test of time (some of them are mere vignettes, others are poetic narrative exercises that fail to gel into something complete)but the best of them are the unmistakeable work of a bold young artist trying her range.
Disappointing. Vague and ineffective. It seems like a case of style over substance. Style's not particularly engrossing either. It was highly praised on its publication but it just didn't do anything for me. Two stories though standout. Lechery and Stripper are rough cut diamonds. Lush and bleak and very lonely in this collection's mediocre company.
This was recommended to me by my mentor after telling her I liked dark stories, and Joyce Carol Oates. Her suggestion was spot on - I loved the subtle darkness within each story and the original formatting. Because l actually finished this book over a month ago, I can't remember the specifics I wanted to write in my review. I just remember thoroughly enjoying this work!
