https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1098135.Stalking_the_Wild_Asparagus
Just browsing through it, I found out that acorns are edible, there are no poisonous wild onions, you can make great apple dishes, butter & jams with crab apples, and that I could make maple syrup from the trees in my yard, even though they are not sugar maples.
The only thing that would make it better are more tips for recognizing the edible plants described in book, and actual photos instead of line drawings.
I plan on buying this book and finding another that is more a field-guide type.
Trying The Forager's Harvest: A Guide to Identifying, Harvesting, and Preparing Edible Wild Plants first.
Loved this book. Read it all the time. The grand-daddy of foraging in America!
I’m a little torn on how to review this book.
It’s partly on me that I expected it to be all about asparagus.
But come on!
So I basically borrowed a book from the library to read 2.5 pages on the subject of asparagus and it wasn’t even about growing it.
It’s about finding it in the wild.
You heard people make dandelion wine and grape wine but you can’t speak to its flavor.
I read the dandelion chapter eagerly to learn about its peculiar wine only to find that chapter truncated due to the author’s distaste for wine.
Excellent guide to beginning with wild foods and a great segment on tapping maples and other wild foods and various preparations as well as a crucial herb distillation process that can be done for cheap but you cannot use aluminum or iron stainless steel is preferable for distillation.
I now recognize the edible, wild plants that I have been seeing everyday on my walk! Anyone want to come over for some milkweed?
More of a cookbook than guide. Sort of sweetly old fashioned with its emphasis on pies and jellies. The sense of humor and writing style are nice.

My favorite foraging book, so good that I read it cover to cover. This guy loves his wild plants and it seems like he has tried cooking every one of them in every way possible. I love that it also includes a section on "foraging" meat. It's old so it doesn't have color photographs (my copy at least), but it wasn't hard to look up dozens on my little computer as I read.
A classic. Gibbons' style is approachable and his tone more progressive than many things I've read from the middle of the 20th century. But more than anything else, it's practical, useful, and a fantastic jumping off point. His insistence on scientific names is a real boon for identification, and his recipes (at least those that I've tried) are indeed quite good.
The whole group enjoyed reading it and we had a great discussion.This is a reference book broken into chapters on different wild plants.
I love oak trees and particularly enjoyed the chapter on acorns.
Just like Katniss Everdeen from The Hunger Games series by Suzanne Collins, at one point in his teenaged years Gibbons saved his family from starving by providing food from the wild.Stalking the Wild Asparagus has held up very well.
If you are interested in alternative food sources and the environment, I definitely recommend Stalking the Wild Asparagus.
It is an easy book to slowly read a chapter at a time.
Each 2-20 page chapter is devoted to a different plant and meanders its way through its identification, common locations, how to harvest it, and several recipes...
all nestled alongside quirky, chitchatty stories about that one time Gibbons first tried the food as a little boy or some expounding on the great joy of spending an afternoon berry-picking and how much better pies taste when they include a heaping tablespoon of sweat and good memories.
That said, I am pretty sure that this still stands, 50 years past its publication date, as one of the most-cited books on wild foods in the Eastern US.
This book is an easy to read in-depth source of knowledge of wild foods.
Not only does it include helpful tips of where to find these wild food items, but also how to prepare them.
They are ordered somewhat alphabetically based on the name of the plant being discussed, so that the book begins with acorns, amaranth, and apples and so on.
However, this isn't always apparent since chapter titles don't necessarily contain the name of the food stuff being discussed.
A better way to order the book might have been seasonally so that the items that can be collected in each season are listed together.
"I have lived at my present address for only a few months and I am not as familiar with the area as I would like to be.
Without going more than a half mile from the house, I saw, identified and recorded more than sixty species of plants good for human food and several of these had more than one edible part.
I could prepare salads, vegetables in all shapes, forms and colors, root vegetables, starchy vegetables, high-protein vegetables, cereals, breadstuffs, beverages condiments, sugar, desserts, pickles, jams, jellies and preserves from the plants growing in the small area I covered on my walk.
This is the forager's bible, and a true classic.
Gibbons, who was embraced by the back-to-the-land movement, became famous and wrote a slew of other "Stalking" books, but this is the one that launched his career.In plainspoken yet swaggering prose, Gibbons eloquently describes the benefits of eating wild foods, including dandelions, amaranth, and mulberries.
Each chapter focuses on a different edible plant (mainly flora, although he's got a brief chapter on mushrooms) with a simple line drawing of each.
there's an old copy of this old forager's classic here at black bear ranch and i am currently gulping it up.
there are simply drawn plates of many of these common edible finds, which are easy for me to draw and trace--something that i have to come to regard as essential if i want to retain the wee details.
besides that these essays interspersed with keen plant descriptions and many preparation techniques read like a guilty-pleasure there are so witty--somehow both dated and perfectly poignant today.
kinda sad, in a way.
I loved the premise of this book!
(for one thing, who knew that acorns were edible--if you prepare them properly?) I found it so interesting that the author could live so long by foraging along (if I recall correctly, his longest foraging "trip" was 4 years), plus I had no idea that it's actually better to forage in an urban setting than in the wilderness--I think at one point he commented that he'd found 42 edible species in a vacant lot in Chicago.
What I would have liked, however, was more information about identifying edible wild plants.
Euell Gibbons was a practical naturalist, and his classic book is less about ecology and life histories of plants and animals than it is about the edible species that surround us.
I'm surprised that this book isn't more widely read these days, considering the recent popularity of living off of the land.
Anyone looking to diversity their diet should read Gibbons's book.
And if you have tried eating wild plants without pleasure, you should also read it for the many recipes and helpful advice on how to prepare these plants.
For anyone feeling the back-to-nature impulse, this is a great place to start.
A very interesting book containing knowledge that has been forgotten by most in the modern day (including myself).
While some of the chapters were more interesting than others, the overall message of this book is really quite good.
While I doubt that I will ever use most of the information in this book, it is still fascinating to learn about the abundance of food around us.
This book makes you think differently about those weeds growing in your yard or on the side of the road.
What we find in nature has more uses than we can even imagine, and that is a comforting and awe-inspiring revelation.
What I learned from this book: Euell Gibbons is a badass, who learned how to forage to support his family during the Great Depression.
He really loves making jellies and chiffon pies.
He thinks wine is a waste of good juice.
This is a fun book to read through, though all the jams and jellies get a bit tedious by the end.
It's not really a foraging guide (few pictures, minimal descriptions on habitat and season), but it will get you inspired to start looking for food in new places.
Plus, he has some great stories about spearing fish on horseback in Arizona.
A great overview of wild foods.
I looked to this for a manual of sorts on how to survive once the food supply is insecure, if things continue the way they are...
And it is an excellent start, but I am concerned about the preparation required to achieve some of his recipes...
In a starvation situation, I somehow doubt many would have the energy, time, tremendous amounts of water, or other ingredients required (where are you going to get baking soda in a revolution?) to make some of the foods palatable.
As a general primer to economic food gathering and preserving, however, it is excellent.
There are some pretty funny and touching moments in this book, but I began to skim as I got deeper.
If Gibbons doesn't have a great story about the particular plant or animal he's writing about, the section will read more like a reference book.I did learn a thing or two.
For example: you can pretty much grab a fistful of any leafy green you see outside, boil it in salted water for 20 minutes, and put butter on it, and it'll be delicious.
Of course, if it's a fruit or berry, you're going to want to boil it with 10 cups of sugar instead.
The reason I picked this book up from the library is because it was listed as suggested reading for fans of "The Year of the Flood" by Margaret Atwood. I've always enjoyed foraging for berries and I thought maybe there are other foods that I could "branch" out and try.This book shows its age in places (who cooks with monosodium glutamate anymore?) and the author makes a few assumptions about his readers that writers today would not make, but nonetheless, this book holds up despite being from the 1960s since wild plants don't change much over time.
My husband reads this book to me when I have trouble sleeping. Sometimes it's very effective, other times it doesn't work very well because I notice that I haven't heard of a particular plant or that a recipe sounds terrible. Only about half of the plants mentioned in this book are available in the metropolitan area in which we live, because they were cut down to build roads. So, it is unlikely I will use any of the advice or recipes in this book.
You can tell this was written during the beginning of the back-to-earth movement, but it's an enjoyable read nonetheless. Obviously the last section on wild meat wasn't helpful for me, but I'll let it slide since he meant for this to be a more general intro to foraging, not just a guide to plants. I love the recipes. There's a wide selection of creative preparations, and you can tell that he tried all of them.
I had a summer job as a janitor at my old elementary school and as we'd be out doing groundswork, the head janitor would point out various weeds and trees and whatnot and say "You can eat that, you know!" and he'd show me which parts were edible. He brought in a couple books by Euell Gibbons and I'd read them during breaks. I've eaten all kinds of stuff, I got the runs a few times, but for the most part I've been unscathed. Since reading his books, I see the outdoors with new eyes.
I can barely remember his PBS programs, but mainly remember him from Grape Nuts TV commercials and as the butt of many Johnny Carson jokes. I'm halfway through this book and am itching to go foraging. His enthusiasm is contagious. I just looked up his cause of death: Marfan Syndrome. Interesting. Just learned last night that many in King Tut's royal line had the same affliction. I was hoping he didn't die from eating some poisonous plant.
Euell Gibbons' Stalking the Wild Asparagus has been a constant companion of mine since my youth. My Mother introduced me to some wild foods and this book, and we have been inseparable ever since. Since the publication of this book there have been innumerable field guides and similar books, but this remains among the best, and is certainly the most revered by me.
This is not merely a field guide to edible plants. This is an amazing collection of stories related to wild plants. While not as good as Gibbons later books (he got more comfortable as a writer and teller of tales later I think), this is the book that made Euell Gibbons a star and it, along with My Side of the Mountain sparked my own love affair with nature.
Euell Gibbons is fascinating to read, and he's sort of hilarious. My adoration is enhanced by my mother's personal anecdote: Gibbons taught a class for a semester at Rutgers while she was a student. Apparently, Gibbons gave lots of winking references to dandelion wine. By the end of the semester, he needed to recuperate from his own studies of dandelions. I think that is adorable.
It's funny how you feel you get to know a celebrity or actor by the roles he plays or the talks he gives . Reading Gibbons felt like finding a quirky old friend between the pages of a quirky old book. I hope that should the need arise I am close to as successful in living off the land as my old friend Euell. I really wish I'd saved this copy of this book. Oh well.
