https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/102908.Beautiful_Losers
for some reason, this is one of the most diffcult books for me to defend to others and to justify to myself.on the one hand, it's leonard cohen.
it swerves through time in a way that a more experienced novelist, someone with greater control over the long-form, could perhaps have turned into something more successful, but even with all of its flaws, it remains a favorite of mine.cohen is not a master storyteller.
i don't know why i even tried, except i saw this book from across the room and thought it might be time to actually try to review it.

"I don't need a reasonFor what I becameI've got these excusesThey're tired and lameI don't need a pardon, no, no, no, no, noThere's no one left to blameI'm leaving the tableI'm out of the gameI'm leaving the tableI'm out of the game"Leonard Cohen's last song. Died 7 Nov 2016 in the same year Bowie and Prince died.
As it is written on the first page dedication, I received the book as a birthday gift in 2005.
It has been sitting on my bookshelf for more than 10 years, waiting for me to give it a chance.
A chance was given but I could not make it past page 50.
This is the craziest shit I have ever read.
I will leave the book unrated as I read too little to make an informed opinion.
An example of the prose so you know what you are getting into if you want to read this: “F.

He sentenced me to twenty pages of boredom.I feel about her as many of my readers must feel about pretty Negresses who sit across from them in the subway, their thin hard legs shooting down from what pink secrets. (p17)rolls eyesWhy is it only now, years past, my prick rises up at the vision of her standing there so absurdly painted, her breasts dark as eggplants, her face resembling Al Jolson? (p18)drops book forever
I used to have a problem with Leonard Cohen.He gave me headache.This has to be explained.When I was 5 years old my mum was a teacher in a small nursery school somewhere on the mountains.
Still, the Fiat Uno of my parents could easily cope with that problem having a -drum roll- tape recorder.The only problem was that the one and only tape we had in the car, for reasons I would not investigate, was "The Best of Leonard Cohen".The road was all curves and harpin bends crowded of trucks carrying gravel between Florence and Bologna, my hometown.
And my mum was listening to The Best of Leonard Cohen.How much I couldn't stand that tape?
In the first, the narrative frame of the novel, Cohen explores the relationship between three friends and lovers: the unnamed narrator, his oldest friend, F., and his wife Edith.
blows up the statue of Queen Victoria in Victoria Square, Montréal in an act strangely foreshadowing the FLQ bombings that occurred half a decade after the novel was written -- Beautiful Losers captures the spirit of being caught between two worlds, often slipping seamlessly between English and French and between French and Iroquois.
Ovim postmodernističkim pisanijama ide ocena ili jedan ili pet, nema sredine, a kako me mrzi da (sama sebi) obrazlažem i jednu i drugu - ostaće neocenjeno.
Personally I think the crude language and sex jokes were a bit over-the-top (and I've read some pretty explicit books before so I should know), but otherwise, this 1960's set classic is an amazing novel capturing an era of great social change and the story of a few people experiencing the sexual revolution.
Now, I will say that I have also never been sexuality attracted to a 13-year-old girl nor have I had any cravings for many of the desires and cravings thought, and acted upon, in this book.
This happens too frequently in today's society, we forget that eroticism is about more than coming or achieving orgasm (by the way, I think that term is completely stupid, I have no idea why I'm using it here.
Future readers note: If the idea of uninhibited sexuality, vulgar urges or animalistic desires disturbs you on any level, this is NOT the book for you.
The book jacket tells me this book is about a love triangle lived out in a hell that is an apartment in Montreal.
The Catholic Saint Kateri Tekakawitha serves as a fourth love interest and enunciation of the characters' identities and nationalism.
Literary experiments are inherently unfair because the reader probably did not know what they were in for when they picked up the book.
Beautiful Losers is at times, expansive and at other times, indulgent and at still other times, abusive to the reader.
It is a book of an age.
It is a book of an age.
At one point I declared that it was the best book in all the world because it just felt...so good.
This was by far the strangest and most uninhibited thing that I have ever read.
I felt as though I had never read a book before.
There's no point in trying to understand the ins and outs of the whole thing, because I just don't think you're supposed to.
I think any strong reaction is a good one; is book is provocative beyond anything I've ever seen or read.
Jesus, Mary, and Joseph!Cunts are a forest of pricks where saints and seekers exchange dirty luminescent fluids in microscopes of madhouses stitched together, and shattered, and stitched together again by tidal sways in the eternal machinery of the ever-loving Mothers.Inspired farrago?
Let's make a virgin of this slut.This is a biblical porno starring Jesus, Mary, and Joseph in which all sexual and political and spiritual energies are conspiring to canonize the Blessed Catherine Tekakwitha, to elevate the feminine in a legendary retelling of the Assumption of Mary and of all tortured brides.
For most of the time I spent reading it the meaning of the text evaded me.
Cohen is doing a lot of things here, and they are very interesting and postmodern—sacred and profane chafing against one another—but I didn't always feel secure in this reading.
I think this is productive, not negative.
I felt extremely unsettled throughout, at times repulsed and horrified, but was very interested in what Cohen was saying about Canada and its history.
I think this book requires a reread.
I didn't love reading it, but it is doing interesting things, and I'm interested in unpacking the sections that made me feel uncomfortable or confused.
Leonard Cohen has always charmed the socks off of me. Beautiful Losers is stunning, intimate, crass and hugely insightful.
thank you, mr. cohen, for making me have to get off in the bathroom of muldoon's diner in wolverine, michigan on a road trip to my mom's with my boyfriend and his parents.
It is my fervent hope that the National Inquiry into Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women and Girls (a.k.a. l'Enquête nationale sur les femmes et les filles autochtones disparues et assassinées) currently underway in Canada will consult "Beautiful Losers" as native women in this work die like flies after having been abused by white males.
GJ'espère que les commissaires de l'Enquête nationale sur les femmes et les filles autochtones disparues et assassinées qui est actuellement en cours vont consulter ce roman pendant leurs recherches car les femmes autochtones y meurent comme des mouches.
Personal, messy, often not at all a truth that I would claim, sometimes exactly what I would have wanted to say or think or feel, if I'd had the chance or had realized sooner.What begins as a self-congratulatory, self-destructive exercise in some kind of parallel universe of writing ends as something gentle and lovely, something delicate and whole.
I was impressed."People sneeze, F., that's all, don't make such a damn miracle out of it, it only depresses me, it's a depressing habit you have of loving to sneeze and of eating apples as if they were juicier for you and being the first one to exclaim how good the movie is.
Oh Leonard, how I love you, but do not so-much love this book.
Again, I am letting myself be lazy and file it away to finish in another era, but from what I have read so far, I need to be in more of a sitting-on-a-dirty-rooftop-in-the-rain-drinking-whiskey-and-smoking-cigarettes -sort-of-mood before I can fully appreciate what you've got to offer here.
I love the poems Man, and I love the lyrics, (and I especially love the club, E & C) and though pieces of it are absolutely stunning, I am not so sure that I love this novel.But not to fret, Old Friend; catch you later when the barometer drops.
The grubby, rude, glitzy, 60s Beat-like novel that we, the humans with souls, can play with. Tastes masochistic and discomfiting, like Kerouac or Bukowski, but without the self-indulgence and isolatingly intense hatred of women. For the self-flagellating Montrealais (is there any other kind of Montrealais?) or those who aspire to be.
I'll admit something about this story of a unnamed narrator, his suicided wife, their mutual friend and lover F.
and the long dead but revered in the nameless narrator's memory Kateri Tekakwitha (an actual historical figure) kept me hooked and, at times, moved.
But I'll also admit that for every passage in the book that lifted me up with carefully crafted (and often chuckle out loud sarcastically funny) prose, there were elsewhere three or four times that it disappointed by drifting into either untranslated French or, worse, what might as well have been gibberish.
This is a strange book.
Some of the prose is beautiful, the ideas are far out, and yet...I am not sure I like it very much.
So despite the part where I kind of enjoy the far-out prose and the sentient vibrator orgy, I am sour on the book as a whole.Note: The rest of this review has been withheld due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.
In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Leonard Cohen, so often unfairly referred to as the Dylan of the Great North, has a special talent in which he infuses every moment of life with poetry and magic.
This novel, a story of a love affiar between a mad, mystic nationalist, a dead Iroquois saint, a recently deceased wife and a broken, lonely man, is beautifully (if not grotesquely) told.
Reminicisent of Joyce's wordplay and windin interior monologue, this novel is a tapestry is weaved of sex and regret, hallucinatory buddhist ramblings and the dejected voice of the one left behind.
A crushing novel of sadness and ceremonial critisicm, painstakingly researched and imagined, filled with profanity and pussy.
Obscene, pornographic, incoherent, sick, Beautiful Losers is all of these, but it is also heartbreakingly beautiful, sad, haunted and elegiac.
Much of 60s counter-culture is being rediscovered now, but this does more than any Jack Kerouac or Marshall McLuhan can do, and is more involving, weirder and ultimately more serious.
It is about loneliness, freezing weather and a man at the edge of his reason, endlessly mourning his lost friend/lover, 'F' and his dead wife Edith whilst researching an obscure native American Saint, Katherine Tekakwitha, in a squalid Montreal flat in the 1960s.
It contains what I think is my favourite line of dialogue ever:'What time is it, F?''It is the summer of 1964.'Just like the title says: beautiful.
ιδιοφυΐα Leonard!review στη δεύτερη ανάγνωση.
f R e E J Az ZДобре че обичам free jazz. Иначе книгата сигурно щеше да ми е съвсем непоносима. Тя е като издивяващите музиканти на сцената, които или те вбесяват с изчанчеността си, или и ти отнасяш с тях във free-то. Затова еднакво приех отзивите за тази книга с една звезда и с пет звезди. Тройката тук е скучна. Истински са крайностите.  „Ние се родихме заедно и в своите целувки изповядахме копнежа си да се родим отново. Лежахме прегърнати, всеки от нас учител на другия. Търсехме конкретния тон
Това писмо се ражда от любовта ни, подобно на искри между дуелиращи се шпаги, на дъжд от трески след удари от цимбали, на ярки зрънца пот, пълзящи през средата на силната ти прегръдка, на бели пера, които хвърчат във въздуха около обръснати петли бушидо, на писъка между две приближаващи се локви живак, на атмосферата от тайни, която витае край деца близнаци.
В „Красиви неучдачници“ е прескочена моята граница (може би критериите ми за „отвъд“ са наличието на физическо нараняване, психическо (само)разрушение, показ на физиологичните нужди, зависимост от наркотици, намеса на деца в сексуален контекст).На моменти писането ми изглеждаше като наркотично бълнуване  (части от стр.
чела).Не зная всичкото това между тримата герои любов може ли да се нарече, но беше доста мъчително.
read at own risk!
"amor é prosa, sexo é poesia". sinto que o Cohen quis misturar as duas coisas e não fez nem um nem outro. não consegui seguir adiante com a leitura... fico com o Cohen exclusivamente poeta.
I can’t be objective when it comes to Cohen.
When I picked up the book, I expected it to be melancholy, spiritual and deep.
Leonard Cohen has the amazing gift of talking about shit and making it sound like poetry (which he literally does in this book).
So when I’m reading about the “telephone dance”, about animated sex toys that attack people, about Jesuits whipping themselves for salvation, about persecution of Native Americans, it’s all beautiful.
May I suggest that you skip over the parts you don't like?
Dear Reader, please forgive me if I have wasted your time.”To this I reply, Dear Mr. Cohen, thank you, for keeping magic alive.
