https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/508903.The_Cat_Who_Could_Read_Backwards
5 stars to Lilian Jackson Braun's The Cat Who Could Read Backwards.
The cozy mystery is a major fan favorite, but who would think it could rate a full 5 stars!
To me, I only compare books for ratings in their own genre, so among cozies, I think this is a top notch read.
I was surprised to see the author had a 20 year span between the first few books and the remainder of the series, but I ultimately liked the jump to Moose County in the future.
I almost adopted a Siamese cat due to these books!
I didn’t really know what to expect from this book, but in the end it pleasantly surprised me, sound like I’m “damning it with faint praise” but that is not the case.
In the end it really was good fun, and of course being a cat lover, I thought Koko was good and a fine example of a Siamese.
My Siamese(cross) is also very vocal and amazingly intelligent.
Besides Koko, the characters were good and whilst stereotypes in a detective novel, they were all well done.
The setting was a good one, small town America and I loved the period.
I am surprised in a way at finding myself giving a "series mystery" book four stars (since I make it a point to hand out very few "5s" that's a big score for me).
In the course of the story Qwill "meets" Kao K'o-Kung (Koko) a Siamese cat owned by the victim.
Qwill begins "taking care of Koko" but of course they'll stay together.Throughout the series Koko will do things that lead to the solving of mysteries and seem to show uncanny abilities and intelligence, or maybe they're just amazing coincidences (ya right).
books I've read, I found the mystery - a series of murders in the local art scene - to be the least compelling part of the experience.
For fans of the series, we know what fate has in store for Jim, but his circumstances are very different in this original novel: divorced, broke, unemployed.
Arch Riker, a recurring character in the novels, is an old acquaintance of Jim's who works there as well.
All in all, this was a very quick and enjoyable read, and now on to the next book in the series, The Cat Who...Ate Danish Modern.
Koko the Siamese cat, who can read a freshly published newspaper backwards by tracing the letters and who has a knack for uncovering clues that piece together difficult crimes.
With that said, the book was well written, with a dash of surprising red herrings and an almost constant upheaval of what the reader thinks they know about the mystery.
I would go so far as to say that The Cat Who Could Read Backwards is more a mystery than a crime novel, or a cosy crime at that.
There was a lot of laying the foundation.It helped that Qwilleran was new in town, as the reader could be introduced to the full cast of characters along with the narrator.
The art critic who owns the cat was also odd, but also a bit cattish himself, preferring to be a recluse and having a contempt for others.All in all, I'm glad I gave it a go, but I don't think I'll be switching to mysteries as my primary genre anytime soon.
And I have to say, this introduction to Qwilleran, the new reporter on the art beat of the Daily Fluxion, and his burgeoning acquaintance with Koko, his landlord's Siamese cat, was most enjoyable.
This is definitely a 'cozy' mystery, a murder of a local art critic welcomes Qwill (and his bristly moustaches, which seem to have a life of its own) to his new job on the art beat.
As he explores the art scene and familiarizing himself with it, he rents an apt from the Flux' art critic and his Siamese cat and finds himself embroiled in this mystery; one murder, maybe two, maybe three.
The book was written in the 1960's so parts of it are predictably dated.
Dated technology doesn't bother me.
Qwilleran walks through the newsroom on his first day and notes the "inevitable girl reporter." At one point he describes a satisfying salad as a "man's salad".
Women are described chiefly by how they look and if the male characters think they're "a dish" or not.
The only female character who is not described as feminine is named Butchy.
She's not allowed to be feminine, is what I took away from it.
*sigh* That's all very dated, too, but I'm much less inclined to be fine with it.Qwilleran does no cooking for himself.
3.5I was so surprised with this one! I'm a crazy cat lady so the title was very appealing to me. I thought it would be very quirky and over the top but it works so well that I didn't mind it! It was so quick to read to, it was refreshing. I'll continue the series for sure!
I enjoy any books that adequately include them; you know, more than claiming they exist.
Jim Qwilleran, like many, didn’t know cats in close quarters.
Knowing neither art nor this city, readers learn the subject along with him.
All Lilian’s books appear to expound on a new topic, which I thoroughly enjoy.Compounded by a strong, identifiable history: two factors launched my pleasure to five full stars.
Especially praiseworthy: I have never seen a cat-themed novel depict a human / feline relationship better than Lilian’s do.
Lilian felt that hardcore crime was en vogue.
Sadly, I couldn't say the same for the story itself.First, I think the story is beginning to show its age in an entirely unacceptable way, as we deal with a woman the book somewhat subtly indicates is a lesbian and than very un-subtly names "Butchy".
The main character basically sits back and lets events unfold until at the end he stumbles on (literally) a character we have never met before and who turns out to be the bad guy.
Now, the cat tripping the bad guy is a plot device I'm ok with once in a mystery featuring a cat.
It was as entertaining as I remember it being, from the point of view of an openly excited reader and a cat-lover to boot.The introduction of Qwill to KoKo is more poignant than I remember it being, simply because he [KoKo] is a bit more of a snob, being with his previous owner - a rather self-dignified art critic - for about 95% of the novel.
I'm tempted to read them again - just to try an make more sense of the mystery and murder reasoning itself - but anticipate the next novel - and the introduction of my favs, Yum Yum - more.
Then a local art dealer is murdered followed shortly by the homicide of the art critic.The star character in the story is the spoiled Siamese cat owned by Mountclemens, Kai K'o-King or Koko for short.
Qwill meets Koko when he is invited to dinner, and they become better acquired when Qwill cat-sits for a few days.
What is most apparent is that Qwill needs to work on his cat communication skills because Koko is the one who knows what is going on and leads Qwill to the clues.
The mystery was ok, and the cat was magnificent.
Non mi intendo per nulla di come debba essere strutturato un giallo, quindi per questa prima storia della lunga serie,posso solo dare la sufficienza, comunque Koko,il gatto siamese detective mi piace molto, anche perché io ho avuto un siamese e so bene che non sono gatti uguali agli altri.Non ho capito molto della caratterizzazione dei personaggi e mi sembra che la storia si risolva troppo velocemente nelle ultime pagine.Comunque vado avanti con il libro successivo.
His low rent paves the way for quite a bit of cat sitting, and so we meet the brainy Siamese "Koko", who in addition to normal feline fickleness, independence, and fastidiousness, is a bit of a sleuth himself (in addition to reading newspaper headlines!).
But the story doesn't just rest on the cat -- Qwillerman is a likable guy who pursues his puzzles doggedly, while he and we learn a little about art and art galleries along the way.
I thoroughly enjoyed this story of how gruff cynical reporter Jim Qwilleran acquires his detecting sidekick, Koko the Siamese cat.
Qwill at this point is a hardworking, gone-sober reporter in a city, with little money and no love interest.
I liked these early books better than the ones where Qwill comes into a lot of money and lives a rural life just below the Canadian border.
On the other hand, the later books do bring in a cast of engaging characters and the author does a lot with her Moose County setting, including occasional jaunts.
The second Siamese cat, Koko's dainty girlfriend, first appears in The Cat Who Ate Danish Modern.
4 StarsWhat a fun piece of fluff. This was just enjoyable and the main character Qwilleran is not irritating or over the top. Koko or should I say Kao K'o-Kung; the Siamese cat. Qwillerans descriptions of his interactions with the cat were hilarious; you have to be a cat owner to understand (maybe). I like his easy manner, unapologetic honesty and dry sense of humor. Just fun reading. Need a cozy mystery while it is cold?? This book is for you.
Just the thing to distract one from the end of the world.I enjoy the wit and lightness of this series. I usually dig into heftier tomes, but with the horrific presidential election and a cancer diagnosis, some engaging entertainment is in order.
An intriguing start to a new (for me) cozy mystery series. I enjoyed the characters and the unfolding of the plot. The murders happened later in the book than usual, with a quick resolution. I'm interested to see how things will pan out with the apartment now in the next book.
I read this a long time ago and I'm not sure why it's still on my TBR list
Ahh...A beloved classic. Time to re-read this series.
Entretenido. Es el primer libro de una serie protagonizada por un veterano corresponsal de guerra, reciclado a crítico de arte, que investiga crímenes con la ayuda de su gato siamés.
This is the first book in this series and it’s the second one I’ve read. I wish I’d read this one first. It tells the story of how Jim ends up with Koko the Siamese Cat. It was a fun fast read with lots of great characters and an interesting storyline. I like murder mysteries that keep my attention without being too violent but can also be funny at times. I think I may have found a new series for me read for awhile. 😊
sometime Lilian feels she has to bump off a major character or two, but that keeps it all very interesting.An old friend of Qwill's mom leaves him sole heir to her fortune and Qwill leaves the big city for Moose county, He continues to solve murders, and live a very gentile lifestyle.I recommend these books highly.
Over all I miss quill and his follow townsmen that live 400 miles north of everywhere.When you are looking for something light, these books are it...a great tribute to a great writer.Thanks Lilian for giving us Moose county, Pickax city, Qwill, Yum Yum, koko and all the rest.
It is were we meet Jim Qwilleran, prize winning newspaper reporter.
He has had a bit of a rough time in the past few years – not much is said as to what the problem was, but he only drinks tomato juice, his wife has left him, and all he can hope for is a job reporting on the art scene for the Daily Fluxion.
Quickly befriended by Mountclemens and his Siamese cat, Koko, Jim finds himself investigating three murders.
One of the murders is that of Mountclemens – and Koko the cat proves to be a very able co-investigator.
Jim Qwilleran, clawing his way back from hitting rock bottom, returns to the gritty world of reporting by getting a place on the art beat.
He knows nothing about art, but he doesn't let that stop him.
Everyone hates him but Qwill, who is suckered into becoming an errand boy and cat sitter to the world's smartest cat, Kao K'o-Kung.
And I'm sure you know where this is going because this series is all about Qwill and his kitties.
Just read it.The ending sets us up for the whole series, where Qwill will be stroking his mustache and putting his mack down on the ladies for years to come, while Koko and Yum Yum yowl disapprovingly in the background.
Oddly enough, I picked up a different book to read last night, but couldn't bring myself to open the front cover and start.
Together, they solve the murder of the owner of a local art gallery, and eventually, that of Mountclemens himself.
Koko is as charming as ever, and Qwill bumbles along, not quite aware of Koko's mysterious powers yet.I don't think this is the best book out of the series, but it is the one that set them all up.
So if you read this and are disappointed, know the series vastly improves over time.
A book written 50+ years ago could simply feel like a period piece or better reflect the time and place it was written, but this book lacks any sort of plot or character depth and instead relies on shallow over-the-top caricature with an absurdity of situation whose humor doesn't translate well through time.
Some examples: one character who is overtly meant to be a lesbian is named "Butchy" (just in case it wasn't obvious).
The main character is so swept away by the loveliness of a married woman he meets that he swoons at the very thought of the dimples below her knees.
So I finally got around to the first of this series :P Like others in the series, the story is exciting, with a well-developed plot, and I get to know how Kao K'o Kung (Koko) came to be with James Mackintosh (Jim) Qwilleran.
(I so badly want to get a Siamese cat now!) The mystery is set in the art world of an unknown city that houses the newspaper The Daily Fluxion, where art-related persons - a gallery operator, an artist, a critic - start dying one after another.
The first in the series originally written in 1968.
I enjoyed some of the unintended dating (typewriters, phone booths etc.) Reporter Jim Qwilleran starts a new beat as a feature writer for an arts section of the local newspaper.
Murder soon happens in the art world and he becomes involved.
Along the way he meets the Siamese cat KoKo who is bright and helps the investigation along.
I can't say it left me wanting to immediately pick up the next book (of 30) in the series but I probably will.
A nice thing is there is no foul language or graphic scenes.
