https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/556136.The_Wednesday_Wars
Audiobook rating: ★★★★★Book rating: ★★★★★  “J U S T   S W E L L”  Oh I am so going to miss you ‘let me tell you’ about your life to me, Holling!!“I never thought being in seven grade would mean so many death threats”Written so convincingly youthful and full of hearts and humor.Holling Hoodhood’s journey into seven grade is peppered with misadventures, extremely good luck, self discovery and even Shakespeare. So hilarious and sarcastic and really heartfelt.► I listened to the audiobook and oh my
Audiobook rating: ★★★★★Book rating: ★★★★★
Oh I am so going to miss you ‘let me tell you’ about your life to me, Holling!!“I never thought being in seven grade would mean so many death threats”Written so convincingly youthful and full of hearts and humor.Holling Hoodhood’s journey into seven grade is peppered with misadventures, extremely good luck, self discovery and even Shakespeare.
So hilarious and sarcastic and really heartfelt.► I listened to the audiobook and oh my lord, I could not stop!
Love the narrator’s voice too much: he has this boyish/teenage voice and his performance is pitch perfect: awkward and sarcastic.
It’s 1967, and he’s just started seventh grade at Camillo Junior High, and his teacher, Mrs. Baker, hates his guts.
I wanted more afternoons with Mrs. Baker.This is the kind of book that you read and reread, and then read bits aloud to the people you care about, because you want to share it with them.
It’s the kind of book that makes you feel like you really, really know the characters, like what happens to them is important to you.It’s the kind of book that makes you want to read Shakespeare, and more importantly, to curse like Caliban.It’s really one of the best reading experiences I’ve had in a long time.
I want to hear what you think about cream puffs.
and ordinarily,a sweet book would make me feel like i had chiggers or something else foul crawling under my skin, and its earnest gee-whizzery would make me feel unclean just because of my mental rolodex of words that are more satisfying to say in moments of astonishment or crisis than "gee whiz."but this one was different.
this one was entirely wholesome, yeah, but wholesome and satisfying like fresh-baked bread, and i didn't want to roll my eyes at all.this book is many things, but for me, the best part is the inspirational-teacher aspect of it.
For example, the myopic narrator view point of a seventh grader was great; it caught the distortions that a kid sees the world through and the way teachers and others outside of their own circle are depersonalized into roles instead of people.
On the plus side, I really like the month of May in the book (each chapter is a month in the school year).
A 13 year old has the right to seeing the world in a distorted manner or persecution.
All of the above?This isn't even so much a rant, as a pointing out of another story going on in this book.
The story takes place during one of the most tumultuous times in American history, and the undercurrents of the Vietnam War and the Civil Rights Movement are ever present.In the beginning, Holling is an unassuming, agreeable boy who seems to take whatever Mrs. Baker and the other students have to dish out.
It’s rare that I am able to completely buy in to a story this wholesome and light hearted, but it happened here.I also love Holling’s changing reactions to the words and lessons of the Shakespeare plays that he reads.
It makes me think of all of the great works that I’ve read, that have impacted me in completely different ways at different times of my life.
There’s something very pleasant about kids’ books written in the ’60s.
They have an assurance that books written in later, more apologetic and hesitant decades lack.
Hippies may show up here or there, but the books are more likely to be about time travel, or inventions, or mysteries.This is one of the things you can only learn from consuming texts from that era: that people who lived in the ’60s didn’t know they were living in the ’60s.
He doesn’t know.Much less pleasant are contemporary kids’ books that take place in the ’60s.
And if you happen to have been in junior high during the year 1968, this book can serve as a reminder of life (and national politics) at that time.
In this story the junior high boy has a high school aged sister who aspires to be a flower child much to the consternation of her parents.I was originally attracted to this book because the main character who is a junior high student happens to be attending a school where he is the only student in his class who is not either Jewish or Catholic (his family is Presbyterian).
Schmidt is excellent at making believable, nuanced characters--not something I often see at books aimed at preteens.
The cafeteria lady, for example, loses her son in the Vietnam War and takes it out on the little Vietnamese refugee at the school.
Holling's father is another example.
He is the same initial everykid (smart but not too smart, physically unimpressive, picked on by his sister and unable to understand some basic social cues) in every book aimed at young boys.
But he matures into a young man of such courage and character that I wondered how such a cold father and weak mother could be lucky enough to raise such an amazing kid.
While his Jewish and Catholic classmates attend religious studies on Wednesday afternoons, he, the only Presbyterian in his class, is forced to spend this time with his English teacher Mrs. Baker.
But as time goes on, both Mrs. Baker and Shakespeare teach Holling how to be a better friend, son, brother, a better person.The Wednesday Wars is just a sweet coming-of-age story.
Holling is an innocent boy who by the end of the story becomes a wiser young man, after going though tribulations of being seen by his classmates wearing yellow tights with feathers on his butt, standing up to his unreasonable father and confronting bullies.
Here's what I'm not so sure of: can young readers really appreciate all that's going on, especially the ways in which Holling is not the most reliable narrator?
I enjoyed The Wednesday Wars more than anything I've read in a while, but I couldn't dismiss the nagging voice that kept noisily insisting that this was really a grown-up book dressed up in kid's clothing.
The readers at my school with are too young for this book, but I'm eager to hear from other teachers and librarians how it's received by real live teens and tweens.
It's 1968, and Holling Hoodhood is stuck with his teacher every Wednesday afternoon when the rest of his class attends religious education classes that their respective places of worship.
I liked this story, and teachers will like this story, and doubtless put it on summer reading lists and the like.
Will the majority of kids like this story?
If they are assigned it, some will like it.
Is this a book most will pick up and read on their own?
Not likely.
So good! This book covers middle school drama with humor and wit, with the somber Vietnam War as a backdrop. If you like Konigsburg, you'll love The Wednesday Wars.
It blends humor with emotion in just the right doses.
The book has a lot about "finding yourself" and "choosing your own future." The main character ends up trying out elements of a number of different religions and then having emotional, happy experiences.
Every religion is portrayed as worthy to be explored.The one other thing I didn't like is that the main character's family was dysfunctional and the Dad is a stick figure, basically.
Other than those things, I did really like this.
I loved the poignancy, the humor, the bits and pieces of history.
I loved the baseball and the Shakespeare.
I love this book.
Love, love, love, love, love, love.
Love.
First, it takes place on Long Island, which I didn't even know when I ordered it for the library.
So, sure I got an extra chuckle out of Schmidt's description of LI in November than the reader from, say, Nebraska will.
But still, this is just an adorable story and you don't have to be stuck on the Long Island Expressway to enoy it.
It reminds me of Richard Peck, if Richard Peck wrote about 1960's surburban life and not 1930's Illinois.
It is heartfelt and hopeful without being hokey.
Here's why.Everybody around Holling is completely insensitive and cold-hearted, including his father, his mother, his sister, his teacher Mrs. Baker, the school principal, his friends and classmates, Doug Sweiteck's brother, and Micky Mantle.
He's short a couple of dollars, but the baker just happens to need someone who can play a part in a Shakespeare production, and Holling just happens to be memorizing Shakespeare, so he gets the part, not to mention free cream puffs.Whether good luck or bad, everything that happens to Holling just happens to him.
This book was absolutely fabulous! I enjoyed every minute of it. I was very surprised to find out that it was more than just a Jr. High kid putting up with bullies. It was about life and how you deal with different trials no matter what your age is and everyone deals with these trials in different ways. I am totally serious when I say that I laughed and cried and ignored my family until it was done. It is very worthy of the 2008 newberry award.
One of the best books I have read in a long time. I felt my self reading slower in an attempt to never get to the end.Mrs. Baker is one of the greatest teacher characters I have met.
During this book, Holling does the following: Appears as Ariel in a local performance of The Tempest; gets brushed by a school bus while saving his sister and landing in the hospital, gets opening day tickets to see the Yankees, goes to Port Authority again to rescue his prodigal sister, runs and wins a varsity cross country match.
As having turned out well in spite of the neglect of their parents?An additional charm of this book for me is that I grew up in the next town over from Hicksville, where this takes place.
Without too much effort, you could probably come up with a dozen or so books of the Teacher-Who's-Totally-Mean-At-First-Develops-A-Mentoring-Relationship-With-The-Student-And-There-Are-Some-Life-Lessons-And-A-Bunch-Of-Growing-Up-Happens Genre, but dollars to doughnuts, none would be quite as good or as fun to read as Wednesday Wars. Toads, beetles, bats, I loved it--as the Bard might say. This one could probably work as young as fourth grade.
When a teacher makes you read Shakespeare outside of school, you know she hates you.
I also highly appreciated the part that Shakespeare had to play throughout the story – I’m somewhat of a Shakespeare lover, so I loved seeing Holling interact with plays that I have read in the past!
Overall, I really enjoyed this book – it is light hearted and hilarious, but it also deals with some pretty deep things like war and growing up.
I’m giving this book 5* out of 5 and recommending it for ages 12+
Mrs. Baker is the best character, and the last chapter of the book is by far the high point.I can't help but compare this to the Al Capone Does My Shirts books, because the kids and I just read through those this spring.
In those, the historical setting feels so natural and real, the 13 year old boy's POV is sympathetic and interesting, and every character on the island is vivid and alive.
It's not horrible, and I'll let the kids read it next year when we do the twentieth century in history, but it's definitely not one I'll buy.
Holling Hoodhood’s experiences and emotions vacillate from elated to horrified in that same way, with these everyday occurrences becoming the most ridiculous and monumental, and I loved it.
And I’m pretty sure that Holling Hoodhood will be that one student that changes Mrs. Baker forever as well.
His sister was one of the most intriguing side characters I’ve come across for some time–I couldn’t help but thinking I’d love to read her story as well.
I know it would be entirely different from Holling’s, but that it wouldn’t be any less full of emotion or meaning.There couldn’t have been a more perfect narrator for The Wednesday Wars on audio than Joel Johnstone.
Next, Holling Hoodhood the 7th grade narrator of this delightful book learns all about the best kind of cussing by reading, Shakespeare's "The Tempest." He says,"Caliban-the monster in the play-he knew cuss words.
Even Doug Swieteck's brother couldn't cuss like that-and he could cuss the yellow off a school bus." There are great scenes of Holling practicing these Caliban curses behind closed doors.
I loved watching the relationship between Holling and Mrs. Baker unfold throughout the year on Wednesday afternoons and beyond.
Think of the sound of a bus coming into the station carrying someone you love.
I thought it was so much better--tighter, I guess--than Trouble.Also, a question: looking at the other reviews, and thinking of reviews of other books I've read recently--WHY do so many adults seem to think kids can't enjoy historical fiction unless A.
I would think that there were some kids who hated historical fiction then and there are some who hate it now.
Clearly there's some kind of line I want to draw; it has something to do with how easy the book is to understand with or without cultural references, and is related to the way some old books make good quasi-historical-fiction, and others are just dated.
This is a beautiful book, so I reviewed it for our librarian blog at work.Holling Hoodhood has many things on his mind.
Holling, the lone Presbyterian, is the only student keeping Mrs. Baker from an afternoon to herself.
It may help him secure the heart of Meryl Lee Kowalski, get Doug Swieteck’s older brother off his back, and run faster with the cross country team.
But maybe, just maybe, it will help him tell his father how he feels.This laugh-out-loud novel from Gary Schmidt (author of Newbery Honor book Lizzie Bright and the Buckminster Boy) will reel in readers with Holling’s wry yet innocent narration.
In the year of 1967, Holling HoodHood is entering the seventh grade and notices that his English teacher Mrs. Baker hates him.
She tries her best to make his life miserable, but with his Dad's Architect firm HoodHood and Associates vying to get the contract for her family's Sporting goods store, all Holling can do is grin and bear it even when she tortures him with Shakespeare.
Read on and find out for yourself.This was a pretty good audiobook that I borrowed from my local library that my mom and I enjoyed.
It is available at your local library and wherever books are sold.
2018 Update: Read it out loud with the family. The walls echo with cries of "Toads, beetles, bats" and "Dang wimpy slugs!" Delightful.The title, and the list of 410 things, set me up to expect a battle of pranks. Instead, this funny book reaches deeper, as Holling serendipitously finds himself in various bad and good (and always awkward) situations, and applies Shakespeare to solve them. Maybe someone needs to make his parents read Shakespeare, too. Amusing and touching, I really enjoyed this.
Man I loved this book. It was just light and fun and funny and nostalgic of childhood. But then it snuck in some great themes and deep thoughts. As a teacher it helped me realize that my students are more capable of considering deep and complex emotions and ideas than I think they are sometimes. This is the perfect summer book if you want something light but still substantial.
Une vraie pépite que je vous recommande mille fois ❤
Une vraie pépite que je vous recommande mille fois ❤️
I'm not sure it's possible for me to love this book more. It proved me wrong and made me cry. Best coming of age story I've read in a loooong time.
