https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3378.Generation_X
Of course like any good hatred I only had superficial reasons for hating him, I had never read his work, I only saw the catchy looking books and saw them as a disgusting marketing device.
And of course there is the name of this book, and the fact that I hated the whole Generation X thing that in the 90's seemed to be thrown about all the time.
But then I read the book, and I found I actually really really liked the book, and that I didn't hate Douglas Coupland and that I had been wrong in my irrational hatred.
Does the term overload make or break the novel?
Lets just say that in its o-so 80's rampantly materialistic take on self-imposed post mid-twenty crisis survivors, the book may want to break itself!
The protagonists (don't know it but actually) live in an age where nothing is happening and so the stories they tell themselves atop their middle-class hill both alienate them from the events of the country and transforms them into monolithic figures.
In my generation, well, let's just say I am super glad to pay a kings ransom for my cap hill Lladro-priced matchbox apt.!
The stories all come from spiritual castaways (in their bourgeois splendor they try hard to break from), including, obviously, the too cool author.
Young white privilege all dressed up and no where to go
It's the kind of writing that would have seriously impressed me when I was 14, full of consciously witty soundbites.What I really don't like about it is the glorified loser culture of the early 90s and nearly 18 years later it hasn't aged well and just seems bloated.
The decade that everyone thought was the pinnacle of evolution is now looking as bad as the 80s did ten years ago.
To highlight this, Coupland's plot doesn't have much as a 'story' per se, instead it's a collection of short ironic stories and vague self-realisations by the characters.
With some things you know exactly what they're going to be like before you experience them and you hope you're proved wrong.
I saw "A Mighty Wind" recently and shouldn't have bothered - good film well made and all, but utterly predictable.
As was Generation X.
DC is a snappy writer, he's Tom Wolfe's kid brother, and this book should have been a collection of smart essays like Kandy Kolored Tangerine Streamlined Baby etc.
So if you don't come from Generation X itself & are therefore reading this out of sheer nostalgia, forget this and check out three funny movies about similar stuff - Clerks, Office Space and Empire Records.
Credited with terming low-paying/low-status/unsatisfying/dead-end employment as a "McJob" and introducing/popularizing the phrase "Generation X" to the American lexicon, Coupland conveys the lives of three friends as they attempt to escape their collective quarter-life crisis.
Using a raw ironic tone that is anything less than subtle, Generation X entwines the exhausted lives of twentysomethings with relevant pop culture references.
"Tele-parabolizing" is a personal favorite of Coupland's invented terms which is defined as describing everyday morals by using widely known plots found on television (think, "that's just like the episode where Jan lost her glasses!").
I've been thinking about why I still love this book, when I hate movies like Lost in Translation and Reality Bites.
I think it's because the characters are so active; Andy, Dag and Claire don't lie around hotel rooms in their underwear or have "planet[s] of regret" on their shoulders (shut up, Ethan Hawke).
They have jobs, they do interesting things, they daydream, and most importantly, they tell each other stories.
On the flip side, they haven't aggressively dropped out of the mainstream a la Kerouac &co.
The book never feels forced, and it's the author's gentle tone that makes it work for me.
This was the first novel that I read that explained why I wasn’t entirely crazy for not being crazy for the American dream.So I had just moved from Greece (probably the best place I have ever lived, and I’ve live in some great places {I’ve lived in Spain for the last 12 years!}) and I moved to suburban Washington, D.C., the worst fucking place I have ever lived.
I just hated the traffic and endless sprawl (I didn’t even have the word “sprawl” in my vocabulary at that time; I just knew that I hated it).My brother turned me on to this book after he had also recently been recently reintroduced to American culture.
This started very promising, but soon became bogged down in hollow, absurd stories.
Chronologically I belong to this Generation X, and it is true that at one time (mid 80s)this generation seemed "lost", due to the economic crisis, postmodernism and especially the post-1968 syndrome.
But apparently eventually all (?) worked out.
Moreover, we in the West are now facing very different problems (how to stay afloat in a globalized world, the growing social inequalities, the integration of minorities, global warming, the emptiness after the death of God ...).
With all that this book by Coupland seems no more than an shortfallen luminous star, that later proved to be a false hit.
In the book three late-twenty someones - Andy, Claire, and Dag - separately give up their upwardly mobile jobs and move to Palm Springs, California.
The main characters try to be committed to their 'no-strings' lifestyle, but life does impinge: Claire develops a huge crush on Tobias, an exceptionally handsome man - and follows him to New York - where their lives don't mesh.
Dag is attracted to Claire's friend Elvissa, and tries to develop a relationship with her - until Elvissa skips town for an even more minimal lifestyle.
It is interesting to note that the preoccupations we had back then are not all that different then those of the current millennials - but that back then, we did not have social media or iPhones and so the dissemination of our discontent, our angst, and our disillusionment was not as accessible as it is today via Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat, etc.
It would be interesting to see how Coupland would compare the current 20-somethings to this description of 20-somethings the same year that Pearl Jam's Ten, Nirvana's Nevermind, U2's Aching Baby, and Blood Sugar Sex Magic by the Red Hot Chili Peppers came out.
Coupland is possibly one of the most over rated one trick pony writers of all time.
Pretty much all of his novels are pretentious psuedo intellectual crap masquerading as high brow literature.
It's amazing so many people buy into it.
His one trick, and only claim to fame, is coining the phrase Generation X to describe the aimless post baby boomer generation who appear in this, his first novel of the same name.
I may be a Gen X-er myself but Coupland's vapid, lazy and self centered protagonists did not represent me.
Oh yeah, pretty much nothing happens in the entire book.
I like the yuppie vocabulary in the footnotes, Tobias' rant, the Japanese story when Rilke is quoted...I like the insightfulness of it all.I dislike the 'feeling of filling' (sorry): you can sense that this book was asked to be written by a third party, that maybe it had to have a particular amount of pages, that maybe it was written too fast and didn't have the proper editing (not to mention that it would work much better as a collection of essays than fiction).
I think it would be a better book if it had ~50 pages less.
Svaka od njih zapravo samo ističe skoro pa stereotipna razmišljanja generacije X koja je za vrijeme radnje i pisanja same knjiga bila još uvijek mlada i nabrijana generacija.Kroz ovaj se roman jasno vidi taj generacijski jaz između X-ovaca i prethodne generacije koji je, barem po romanu, daleko izraženiji od onoga što je danas između X-ovaca i takozvanih milenijala.
Zbog toga njegov strah prelazi iz jedne forme u drugu, ali usprkos tome što promijeni formu, strah ostane više-manje jednak.Preko dvadeset godina nakon pisanja ovog romana, stvar je zastrašujuće slična.
Baš kao što mi nikada nećemo razumijeti njih.
I'm actually glad I read it well into its "afterlife" or wherever it's floating as a book now.
As novels go (focusing on the word novel here) I think it's a triumph of beautiful and sometimes virtuosic prose over plot lines that seem a little arbitrary and sometimes mawkish.
"Art lies in concealing art," Ovid wrote, and I hate to admit I found certain aspects of this book too contrived (maybe too many stereotypes of the anti-stereotypical?).
Actually, it made me want to read everything by him.
I saw Coupland has published a book of contemporary fairy tales, and as that's a particular fascination for me, I eagerly look forward to reading that.
Containing strong undercurrents of anti-commercialism, fun dialogue, and imaginative storytelling, this book was written in 1991 but feels just as timely today.
I was surprised to find myself in these pages, not just in the characters and story, but in some of the tongue-in-cheek marginal definitions as well (Terminal Wanderlust - A condition common to people of transient middle-class upbringings.
Unable to feel rooted in any one environment, they move continually in the hopes of finding an idealized sense of community in the next location.
Poverty Jet Set - A group of people given to chronic traveling at the expense of long-term job stability or a permanent residence.
Há anos que tinha a vontade de ler este livro tantas vezes apontado com um clássico moderno, livro de referência da geração de 90. Foi uma desilusão confesso. Achei-o pretensioso e mal escrito. Não recomendo.
A classic!The story of 3 young people who give up their high tech jobs and move out to the desert in Palm Springs to work in marginal "McJobs" that allow them time for a quality of life that they would not have if chained inside of a cubicle at a large corporation.Sometimes funny, sometimes painfully wistful--the characters reflect on popular culture, American Family, and love.
If I had read this book when it was published, I'd probably have liked it more.
I just mean that it was obviously a very zeitegisty book at that time, and a lot of its details seem irrelevant and dated now, and if I'd been the age I am now in the early 1990s, I would have got it and appreciated it rather than getting it but thinking, so what.
Some nice lines, some nice moments, and the dialogue is quite good, but overall it was one of those books that made me think: now I've read this, I don't need to read anything else by this author.
Adopts an anti-Adorno position with “we’re not built for free time as a species” (id.), suggesting that most of us have “only two or three genuinely interesting moments in our lives, the rest is filler, and that at the end of our lives, most of us will be lucky if any of those moments connect together to form a story that anyone would find remotely interesting” (24), which is kinda gross proto-fascistic talk.Friend of mine saw me reading this and asked ‘Are you learning some good cliché aphorisms about yourself?’ which is a decent approximation.
Definitely not my kind of literature
Coupland's novel Generation X contained so many interesting observations and fundamental truisms about where American culture was going that it helped me grasp all the weirdness I too had observed since returning.
I found their narratives to be fascinating, helpful, and best of all, their views were affirming many of my own.It's a great book, revolutionary in some ways, as Coupland rightfully shows that people born after 1960 were not "Boomers" and part of that immense generation of Americans.
This book was crap. A whole bunch of ramblings trying to depict what it means to be 'cool', 'with it', or even dare I say it, 'hip'. I tried my best to read it, but dang it all, it beat me. It was just that bad. Avoid this one. Read something else.
It ended as soon as it was starting to get some sort of rhythm going.I've heard this novel is pretty hit and miss anyway, and I genuinely appreciate what this book has brought to blank fiction and generation X.
I liked the images and little definitions of gen X colloquialisms though, they were super fun.Side note: I really don't understand why people compare this book to The Catcher in the Rye. Just because it's a book about youth isolated from their parents' generation doesn't make it akin to JD Salinger.
Generation X?
Douglas Coupland’s Generation X: Tales for an Accelerated Culture has little conflict until the end of the book.
They’re Generation X, not baby boomers.
They sit around and tell stories—some about themselves, others made-up on the spot—and so because they’re doing nothing, there is no conflict.
As the novel goes on, there’s at least strain to the three-sided friendship as others show up (in part two), but the only real driving conflict doesn’t show up until part three.
Still, however entertaining these snippets are and no matter how accurate it is about a group of people, Generation X is still a novel that’s more influential than good.
Overall I liked the book, but I didn't develop any fondness for the primary charcters.
Gen X is over flowing with Irony which makes it both enjoyable and gives the impression that the author is trying to hard too write something Hip or Cool.The early 20's to mid 30's Are the target population.
The 3 main characters are directionless and are trying to escape evolving technology and Gotham like cities.
La trama, prácticamente inexistente, narra la existencia de un grupo de jóvenes adultos durante la época posterior al reaganismo a principios de los noventa.
Se podría decir que es un retrato de ciertos estratos de la juventud de esa época, que al contrario de la generación de los baby-boomers ha dejado de creer en el sueño americano: ocupados en pagar sus deudas escolares y atrapados en empleos sin futuro, aburridos de todo y sin creer en nada.
El tema pudiera resultar interesante a pesar de ser una mirada bastante estereotipada de los noventas, pero la realidad es que al menos a mi, Coupland solo consiguió aburrirme, sus personajes son de lo mas plano y la escritura bastante trivial.

There's just one thing I like about this book.See, "pretentious" is a tough word. It's hard to define, and a lot of the time, when you use it to describe something, you actually end up acting pretentious yourself. Therefore, I'm thrilled to find that this book embodies, at least for me, the perfect definition of the word.Nothing else about the book was any good at all.
Спочатку було складно зрозуміти про що книга, ви ніби приєднались посеред розмови, але як це прийнято по ходу розмови ви починаєте розуміти про що йде мова.
Ви просто слухач історії життя та побуту молодих людей, які вирішили з різних причин кардинально змінити своє оточення та обставини, але не варто очікувати якихось нереальних метаморфозів.
Після прочитання може скластись враження, що ви прожили з тиждень в Палм Спрінгс поруч з Енді, Дегом і Клер та спробували вловити, а може і вловили їх мотиви.
Круто, що книга розбавлена "притчами" та знайомими з життя визначеннями на кштал синдрому хворої будівлі та телячих стійл.
Тож яку емоцію з земного життя ви заберете з собою?
