https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/733473.The_Futurological_Congress
-Stanislaw Lem, The Futurological CongressA short novel narrated by cosmonaut Ijon Tichy, a kind of futuristic Alexis de Tocqueville who shares his travel report and diary beginning at a convention of world futurologists held at a space age hotel in Costa Rica where he has a room one hundred floors above the street.
In a similar spirit, below are a batch of psychic hits, eight strobe light flashes, of what a reader will encounter with Lem's spectacular, speculative loop-the-loop: Kill the Pope: At a hotel bar, one where an all-girl orchestra plays Bach while performing striptease to the rhythm of baroque music, a burly, bearded bloke sticks his double-barreled rifle under cosmonaut Tichy’s nose and asks how he likes his papalshooter.
Stanislaw Lem outdoes Philip K. Dick on the latter's home territory. If reading this doesn't make you doubt the solidity of the world for at least a moment or two, you are an enviably secure person. I'm afraid I still feel apprehensive any time I notice I'm inexplicably out of breath after taking an elevator. Luckily that doesn't happen very often.
This short book, almost a novella really, takes you on quite a ride, and I really enjoyed not knowing where it was going, so I'm not going to say too much about the plot.
Specific dreams can be ordered and received in pill form, books are no longer read but consumed, and drugs can even be taken to make one more moral, compassionate, or understanding."A caveman would also resist a streetcar." And that's all I want to say about the plot.
Well, it's a slogan Lem made up for the use of this book, and I think it shows a little something about this guy.
Really?!)As for the rest of the book, it's so whacked up and schizoid that I'm starting to think Lem must have dropped some acid before he sat down to write.
For once, I'm glad I've read it in Polish, let's face it, I'm still way more comfortable with that language.
Could I be imagining it?If you think it's any less confusing in original, it's not.
So yeah, this might not be best Lem book.
Written in 1975, in Polish, The Futurological Congress is easily as relevant today as then.
One set in a near future and then one in a more distant future, hypothetically 2039.Part one is the most absurd satire of academia, U.S.
Part two imagines a future that is the xtreme-sports version of "Brave New World." And told with the most experimental linguistic acrobatics.This book is an amazing feat, really.
Blending absurd comedy with tragedy.
His take on Brave New World on steriods essentially predicted virtual reality through drugs.
It was written by a mad, profound genius.
Maybe the most mind bending, and pain inducing books I've ever read. Also the most eye openning and refreshing. The book that both made me want to die and gave me reason to live.

Karakteri Ijon Tichy’i geleceğe gönderen Stanislaw Lem, dehasını konuşturuyor ve bizlere distopik bir gelecek portresi sunuyor.
İlk bakışta ütopik sandığımız bir dünyanın distopik çıkmasına zamanla alışıyoruz, lakin çizilen o korkunç portrenin gelecekte olabilitesini düşündüğümüzde de bir hayli ürperiyoruz.Ijon Tichy, Profesör Tarantago’nun kendisini ikna etmesi sonucu Kosta Rika’ya, Sekizinci Dünya Gelecekbilim Kongresi’ni izlemeye gider.
Karakterimiz Ijon daha önce hakkında herhangi bir bilgi sahibi olmadığı kongrede, bir köşede sessizce oturmak ve yaşananları şaşkınlıkla izlemek zorunda kalacaktır.Gelecekbilim Kongresi’nde patlak veren olayların ardından Ijon Tichy kendisini 2039 yılında bulacaktır.
A work of unique genius. The Futurological Congress is a brilliant combination of sci fi, philosophy, and comedy. The word-play is amazing. Lem writes like a dark Lewis Carroll.
Lem has certainly taken that idea to heart with this short but powerful book.The Futurological Congress is a first person account through the eyes of a recurring Lem character by the name of Ijon Tichy.
Much of its humor is simply a reflection of many of our cultural and social practices taken to their extremes in such a way as to highlight some of the very insane aspects of the modern world that pass for normal.It interesting to read this 1971 book in a modern context, to see how part of the cautionary aspect of the tale – its fear of a future “pharmocracy” – has actually come to pass in many ways.
Lem's astronaut Tichy attends the conference in Costa Rico, which is supposed to address on the first day the population crisis, global pollution, the food crisis, the energy crisis, etc, before breaking for questions.
But then a local revolution disrupts the congress and some of the drugs used to pacify the population, such as one to stimulate feelings loves (sort of like Ecstasy is supposed to do) affect the attending scientists.
Lem stretches the concept of drugs to control the population to the limit in a wild "what if" ride for Tichy, who appears to have been cryogenically frozen and awakened many decades hence.

This novel by Lem is a chapter of the astronaut IJon Tich memoirs series,it is with Ubik by Dick yet
This one didn't excite me at all.
The first part of the book is so muddled, it's hard to make heads or tails of.
While I acknowledge this attempt to put in the reader in the shoes of the protagonist, I'm sure we would have got the message loud and clear without the 50ish pages of is-it-real-or-isn't-it "hallucinations".
Lem's attempt to establish a dystopia struck me as one-dimensional and boring, focusing almost exclusively on the rise of pharmaceuticals and the American will to consume.
A fairly short book to begin with, but it still could have been cut down to about 25 pages...tops.
Bonkers, loved it :)
Kitabı puanlarken 5. yıldıza birkaç kez basıp o alanı genişletmeye çalışmış olabilirim ehue. Senelerdir sahaf sahaf aradığım bir kitaptı. Sonunda Cem Yayınevi bir baskı yapmış, hemen edindim. Kitap bol yazım hatası içeriyor. Kapaktaki fikir de çok güzel ama o çizim gözlerimin kanamasına sebep oldu malesef. Olumsuz yorumlarım sadece kitabın fiziksel haliyle alaklı yani. Kitap hakkında geri kalan her şey mükemmel.Kitap, ütopya görünümlü distopya konusuna el atmış. Gelecek tasvirleri konusunda düşünmeyi seven herkes bu başyapıtı okumalı. Uzun zamandır bir kitabı böyle büyük bir arzuyla okumamıştım. Spoilerlı olmasın diye detaya girmiyorum.Şimdi bu kitaptan uyarlanan Robin Wright ablamızın oynadığı filmi izlemeli.
Obľúbný citát:"4. 9. 2039, Encyklopedie... se vejde do tří skleněných nádobek. Dnes se knihy nečtou, dnes se knihy jedí. Nejsou z papíru, nýbrž z informativní substance pokryté cukrovou polevou... Vědomosti teď člověk získává žaludkem. Jal jsem se proto ukájet svůj hlad po vědení, ale hned první dva svazky encyklopedie mi způsobili nepříjemný střevní katar."
With considerable efforts, I woke up, lying on my bed.
Then imagine my horror when the paranormal activity still kept going on.
However, the dream seemed horribly real and I couldn't get up with my best efforts.
I was stuck in that dream for considerably more time than I would have liked.
And I have had more than two layered dreams too.And even when I'm sure that I'm not dreaming, how could I trust that reality, after knowing that dreams also seem perfectly real until I wake up?
How could I know I wouldn't wake up from a dream when I die?
Although the trope on which the novel turns is the pharmacological management of a dismal future, one can easily see the novel as an ironic comment on current psychological and sociological uses of marketing "spin" to turn vast segments of the world's population into the mindless puppets who have given lemmings a bad name.
Let me be clear that I am not just talking about the hopeless idiots who believe the world is exactly as it is depicted on FOX News.
Lem's novel, while not his best work, is a fast and fun critique on both current trends in managing our worldview and the absurdity of attempting to predict the future.
Çevirmenini tekrar tekrar, hiç durmadan kutlamak gerek...
Ijon Tichy, whose space travels Stanislaw Lem chronicled over many years, has retreated along with a handful of other delegates to the labyrinthine tunnels beneath the destroyed structure.
When another attack fatally wounds our hero, he is frozen and put away for defrosting in a future that will be able to remedy his injuries.Tichy awakes in a world so free of political and social unrest that the greatest danger, for the reader at least, comes from neologisms.
Lem is at his extravagant best unleashing the vocabulary adopted in this world that has found a pharmacological solution to every problem, even those created by their pharmacological solutions.
Truth be told, there’s very little plot and characterization here, and though I often put the ideas and concepts used in a novel far above these elements, I must confess that the book’s world-building-only approach ruined my enjoyment of it—but as for the ideas:The Futurological Congress takes place in a comically over-populated future Earth, one in which society has decayed to a vulgar and violent level, and Ijon Tichy—our protagonist—is attending a meeting of futurists held in Costa Rica.
A schizophrenic plot scraping the reality bare.
You are left with linguistical, logical, psychological tenets, in shambles and barely a chance to put yourself together.A novel paving the way to obvious comparisons between Stanisław Lem et Philip K.
Dick!Personal point of view, the loose, multilayered plot scattering and scuttering in every direction had me utterly confused.Matching Soundtrack : Project 100 - Infected Mushroom--------------Un roman schizophrénique qui ébranle la réalité jusqu'à ses fondements linguistiques, logiques et physiques et établit une correspondance profonde entre Stanisław Lem et Philip K.
Dick !Avis de lecture personnel, l'intrigue effilochée m'a plus dérouté qu'autre chose.Hymne national :Project 100 - Infected Mushroom
Zazwyczaj po przeczytaniu danej książki nie brakuje mi słów w kwestii krótkiej recenzji czy po prostu wypowiedzenia swojego zdania na jej temat; przeczytałam "Nagi Lunch" i inne Burroughsa, przebrnęłam przez Dukaja i z czasem zaczęłam mieć z tego nieziemską frajdę, uwielbiam ambitne pozycje z "Uczty Wyobraźni"... Ale tego, co zaserwował mi Lem w "Kongresie futurologicznym", to się nie spodziewałam. Jedno wielkie WTF. A spodziewałam się jakiejś futurystycznej opowiastki o zebraniu naukowców z morałem... Zaatakował mnie natomiast Lem ironiczny, katastroficzny i psychodeliczny. Swoją drogą, to fenomenalne są te nowe okładki. Bardzo klimatyczne i utrzymane w przyciągającym oko stylu, naprawdę zdobią półkę.
This 1971 offering from Polish author Stanislaw Lem mixes black humour, absurdism, and social satire brilliantly in a short novel that will make you laugh at times, and make you think always.
The Futurological Congress follows one of the adventures of character Ijon Tichy as he is caught up in a chemical attack.
The book provides satire on both the social move towards a "chemically corrected society" where we use different drugs to fix any kind of problem we encounter, and a more subtle commentary on Lem's perception of the idiocy and deceit of government.An excellent book that could be described as Huxley meets Dahli, definately worth reading!
"The Futurological Congressthere are full of experimental thoughts and Hallucination in the world in it.I enjoy to read it and thank you for introducing me it.When I read it, there are full of science fiction's thoughts, topics, thought experiment in the book's sentences.my imagination activates many times.................
Verso la fine del libro, nel tratteggiare un futuro che più distopico non si può, la satira si fa amarissima e in un crescendo dal sapore swiftiano avvolge l’intera umanità, che preferisce annichilirsi nell’illusione biochimica di un’esistenza paradisiaca piuttosto che tentare di scovare qualche soluzione, anche disperata, agli immani problemi di cui è responsabile.
Stanisław Lem is my favorite science fiction writer; only Brian Aldiss, Samuel Delany and John Sladek come even close to his level of invention in ideas and language.
Lem's work has the greatest longevity of any SF I have encountered; it doesn't date because it underpins our perennial interests as human beings.
I am delighted that Penguin Modern Classics has recently republished this work (as well as several of Lem's other books) because as well as being a tremendous example of science fiction it is also great literature in the most sophisticated meaning of the word.
"Congreso de Futurología" vendría a dar la razón a esos puristas que antes despreciaban la ciencia ficción y la tachaban de literatura menor.
El motivo principal es que la caracterización de los personajes es irrisiblemente plana, sin relieve ni aristas que los hagan interesantes.
Se tratan de unos compañeros de viaje insípidos que difícilmente darán lugar a grandes acontecimientos.
La escritura de Lem es la típicamente cinematográfica y resulta monótona como si un pianista se empeñara en tocar el mismo acorde sin parar.
Bien pues, en caso que no se trate de dos obras radicalmente distintas, me parece que lo único que puede retar Lem es nuestra somnolencia.
The story is really just Lem running wild with a thought experiment.
I found it particularly fascinating to read having just finished Daniel Dennett's Consciousness Explained.What is possibly most impressive is the translation.
This book has a running theme about technical neologisms, and despite having been written in Polish, the wordplay throughout the English version is quite fun and feels as though it were originally written in English.
I am not familiar with Polish, so I don't know how well the one language lends itself to cognates in the other, but I found myself impressed with how well the story makes fun of English word combinations.
