https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84764.The_Captain_from_Connecticut
After having absorbed the sum total of all the Patrick O'Brien Aubrey/Maturin books, I have to say that this early Forester novel held no real surprises for me.
The sea-going scenes were well done with appropriate attention to detail.
The connection with real historical events of the War of 1812 is nicely interwoven.
However, the characters are, for the most part, woefully two-dimensional.
The romance introduced seemed dreadfully shallow and poorly realized.
An easy read which flowed nicely.
But I am hopeful that, as I get into the Hornblower books, the whole equals more than just the sum of its parts.
This is an interesting book in comparison to Forester's much better known Hornblower series. Ultimately, I have to say I found Captain Peabody both more likable than Hornblower - and a far less interesting character. In many respects, this *feels* just like a Hornblower book, save with a watered-down American hero in his stead. The action is good, particularly the opening scene. But in the final analysis it does't quite hold up to Hornblower.
What fun to read a book so similar to the Hornblower novels, but in which it is OK to root for the Americans and against the British. After pulling so long for Horatio Hornblower, it felt a little treasonous to cheer on the American ship. But I managed it!
Exceptional sea writing as usual, but this captain is no Horatio Hornblower.
I couldn't tell if Forester was trying to make some point by including a clearly racist view of Washington or if it was a case of Forester's own bigotry coming out through his writing.Upon finishing the book and noting that the author had not used anything that had gone before to make some point about racist society, I adjudged it to be his own bigotry.
Peabody was fighting a Haitian pirate, whose "black face" was described in detail with its "thick lips."Even accounting for this being HISTORICAL fiction, the captain's view toward women was almost as troubling as his view toward race.Still, how much of was a portrait of Peabody, a fictional character, and how much was Forester?
I admit it's some time since I read the Hornblower books, this somehow seems slightly less polished, like he is still learning which bits make a really good story and which are actually a distraction. But don't misunderstand, I still thought this was a very good, captivating and quick story that I very much enjoyed
thrilling nautical adventure by author of the fantastic Hornblower series.
Forester brings another story about tall ships, the wooden world, to us -- something he does so beautifully.
One lone ship successfully runs the blockade to work the whole of the Atlantic in an attempt to disrupt supplies reaching the British ships.
It did not seem to have the flow that the Hornblower series has.
Forester makes it very clear in this story how important the wind, that changeable force of nature, had on the outcomes of battle at sea, and on the maneuverability and speed of sailing ships.
I did enjoy this book despite these caveats.
I have read all of C.S. Forester's Horatio Hornblower books, and this one stands next to them as an equal!
It is refreshing to read a Forester book about American sailors and American ships, since his focus is so often on the British Navy.
This is Forester's only novel set during the age of fighting sail which features an American cast of main characters, and that alone was enough to make me enjoy it.
If one takes all of the heroism and adventure of the Hornblower books and applies it to the American Navy of the same period, then you get Captain Josiah Peabody!
While I was at the USS Constitution museum, I (naturally) browsed the gift shop, and there I ran into The Captain from Connecticut by C.S. Forester.
I thought I’d read just about everything Forester ever wrote, but I’d never even heard of this book.
The story is his only tale about the American Navy, and Captain Peabody is pretty much an American version of Hornblower, right down to both having silly last names.
Peabody was different enough from Hornblower to carry his story well without making me wish I was back in the Royal Navy, and he certainly had better luck with women.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book. It was a happy accident that I pulled it off the shelf at the library. The world needs more heros like Josiah Peabody. Have to admit, I did skim through some of the battles when they got a bit drawn out, but overall loved the history and the time period and the sweet little romance thrown in. :)
A perfect summer read. Excitement, romance, and enough background on the War of 1812 and details of life at sea to be compelling and make you feel like you are learning something.
Anyone looking for more Hornblower should check this out. Forester still can't write believable women, but that's irrelevant because he can write great sea stories.
Excellent book, right on par with the Hornblower Series. A nice change of pace describing naval warfare from the early American perspective.
In typical C.S. Forester fashion a great read.
I read this before , when I was 12 or 13 years old. I think I liked it back then but not now. Even the naval battles bored me. But perhaps still a good book for a 12 year old.
Captain Josiah Peabody. U.S.S. Delaware
it's been a long time since i've read any Forester. he can't write a relationship or women to save his life, but the battles are rousing, so it's entertaining enough.
A good sea tale as are most of Ferester's navels
