https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/552344.Myth_Nomers_and_Im_Pervections
In the previous book as a result of Skeeve being an asshole (sorry but there is no more polite word to better describe his behavior) his mentor and friend Aazh left for his own home.
His previous adventures had not prepared him to survive in a city reminding me of a cross between New York and Moscow during the time of the Soviet Union and populated by Perverts, I mean Pervects.
So Skeeve's growing up took the second part of the book and this is exactly where the tale stopped being funny and became boring.
After Queen Hemlock pretty much sent a deceleration of war at the end of M.Y.T.H. Inc. Link Skeeve decides to send the M.Y.T.H. Inc team to Klah to try to put a stop to whatever she is plotting.
This story only focused on Skeeve's mission on Pervect.
While Skeeve did meet a few new friends, including the Djinn Kalvin he picked up in one of the earlier book, this was a coming of age quest.
It was good to see Skeeve developing as a character and we still had plenty of funny moments in Pervect.
We also meet a few new characters that I'm sure will pop up again in the later books.
The first time I read this book, I read that edition, and I found myself missing them during my re-read.With this book, we go back to Skeeve's point of view, as he travels alone to Perv to ask Aahz to come back to the company.
Perv is based on New York City, or Chicago, or any other large metropolitan area around the world, and it gives Asprin a chance to explore the modern world while still staying entrenched in his Myth Adventure style.
I'm still enjoying this series. Easy, fun to read, no-brainer. Just plain entertainment.
This is a great little read and it doesn't matter if you haven't read any of the series (like me) as most of what you need to know is explained during the course of the story.
Obviously not all the characters are fully developed but there is plenty of others that make their appearances that carry the story well.
Skeeve is an hysterical character and utterly inept at making his own decisions until someone manages to give him the wake up call he obviously needs.
I'm lloking forward to hunting down the rest of the series.
This was book 8 in the Myth Adventures series.At the end of the previous book we learnt that Aahz had returned to his home Dimension of Perv.
Also Queen Hemlock has thrown down the gauntlet to Skeeve and his crew.
While the rest of the crew are sent to Klah to try and halt the Queen's plans, Skeeve ventures to Perv to try and locate Aahz.This book mainly focuses on Skeeve and the problems he faces whilst in a new Dimension for him.
There is still humour to be found, and as usual mishaps and mayhem follow Skeeve wherever he goes.
Skeeve goes looking for Aahz in Perv. Hijinks ensue.
Another fun book in the Myth series. Skeeve has adventures in Aahz's home dimension Perv, well he is a Pervect. Skeeve is looking for Aahz to apologize for some of his actions in the previous book. Skeeve alone with out his usual crew gets into lots of trouble but his character grows a lot from this and he realizes that he needs to grow up and take more responsibility for his own life. Still a good story and helps to expand the Myth Adventures Universe.
This book was a bit different than others. I was used to Skeeve cooperating with other friends on his adventures and in this one, he went solo. I loved the interpretation of pervect dimension. For me, this was one of most enjoyable books of this series so far. Skeeve and his ability to create problems was really funny in this book. I was annoyed with Skeeve whining almost through the whole story, but it was also part of him growing up.
PoorThis series has been excellent until this book. The star of the series went from immature and funny to a whiny baby. One of the touted beliefs became what is right in one situation is not in another. Situational ethics is the home of cowards and heroes should be heroes. I guess the author is P.C. I will try one more in the hopes the author returns to a better pattern.
By the author of the Phule books. If you like them, you'll probably like this.
This is about as real as you can get in a fantasy novel. Loved the soul searching in this one. Great development of character and relationships. Growth can be so painful.
Skeeve tries to go off on his own and still gets into trouble. Some good insights into contracts. Your whole life to date has been training for right now.
Very enjoyable, it was good to see Skeeve on his own for an adventure
Skeeve does some serious growing up and corrects his course towards being a jerk set in the last book or two. Some really nicely crafted stuff here.
classic enjoyable, clever, punny, funny Asprin
So, a book like this really relies on the way the story is told, and it seems to fall flat compared to earlier books in the series: it just doesn't have the same spark of humour.There are also a couple of odd quirks that don't really work.
Later on, after Skeeve decides to invest in JR's business, Kalvin points out that they don't know what type of merchandise he's selling, but I think it's reasonable to assume that he'd carry on with what he's already doing, just on a larger scale.Then there's the taxi driver, Edvik, named after someone who won a charity auction to get his name in the book.
New characters (a bodyguard, Pookie, and a Djin, Kalvin) are not fully explored and thus seem flat; the former, a shining example of the Female is Deadlier Than the Male archetype, has potential, while the latter serves only as a device with which Asprin can point out what the reader should be surmising unaided about Skeeve’s character.
It’s not too well thought out detail-wise, full of minor in-universe contradictions (one of the most egregious being Pookie vehemently adumbrating her duties as a bodyguard, then ignoring her own iron-clad rules because, I guess, Asprin thought it would be easier to write Skeeve alone in a particular scene).
I love these books so much.
This is my first time reading this series and I love it.
Skeeve is on Perv looking for Aahz.
They had a falling out and Aahz went back to his dimension.
(Doctor Strange for those not in the loop).To everyone complaining about Perv not living up to the expectations from Aahz's descriptions; remember, Pervs always uptalk everything.
Aahz is missing until the last few pages of the book and BAM!
Or, well, Skeeve's home dimension.
I would have liked to have seen more interaction with Aahz and Skeeve before they teamed up again.Can't wait to listen to the next one.
He does enlist the help of Calvin, a Djin that only he can see.Aahz's feelings get hurt by an off-handed remark by Skeeve.
Aahz, in an alarming display of childishness, leaves M.Y.T.H. Inc and Skeeve in a huff.
Skeeve feels adequately chagrined, and decides to follow Aahz to Perv to apologize and beg him to come back.This is the first time that more than a couple of sentences are spent on Aahz's home dimension of Perv, and it's a fun romp.
Poor Skeeve is out of his league (which is not surprising), and short on time.
Without the Aahz and Skeeve interaction, I found the story lacking its quick dialog and the fun that I was used to expecting in this series.
Still, the story is interesting as you get to learn more about Perv and more information about Aahz in his youth, although I felt that it wasn't enough.
Overall, even though Myth-nomers and Im-pervections is not quite as funny as the others, it is still an interesting read as Skeeve tries to figure out how to survive in a hostile environment.
Like all the books in this series, this is a quick read that can be enjoyed by all ages.
Very good book, though not quite as fun as the previous book in this series.
I think this is the most peril that Apsrin has put his beloved main character in to date, which makes the book fresh and enjoyable.
To this point, though it never occurred to me since he is so entertaining, we knew very little about Aahz and his past.
We don't get that much info, but what we do get is interesting, and makes the character more well-rounded and relate-able.
Great entry in the series.
This is the first time I ever read this book, by the way.
I wish I had read on: This book really stepped things up a notch.
It's like this book turned a corner, and I am actually excited for what comes next.Oh, I almost forgot - this book really stepped up the social satire.
Several actual laugh-out-loud moments.My only disappointment is that so much had been said before about what an awful dimension Perv is, but it was not anywhere near as fearsome as had been set up.Start with Book #1 and read this series - it's fast and fun and worth your time.
I absolutely adore this book.
Skeeve's visit to the mysterious and anti-social world of Perv is hysterically funny.
The nastiest and most dangerous dimension isn't even safe against the insanity that follows Skeeve.
Following along after his partner Aahz, Skeeve travels to Perv hoping to be able to find the trail of Aahz.First he gets in trouble with the police for being polite and one thing leads to another until the same kind of trouble that follows Skeeve everywhere collides with some of the local population.
Some fabulous characters are introduced and we finally get to see the Skeeve of old.
Magician Skeeve leaves, team off-stage will battle Queen Hemlock on Klah, while he searches rude lizard dimension Perv, for Aahz, Deva bazaar company partner who resigned unhappy. Aided and blocked by mys-fits such as small djinn Kalvin, cab-driver Edvik, sidewalk entrepreneur J.R., bodyguard serpentine Pookie, and others, he explores meaning of friendship and self-reliance. Veiled in arguments with store and hotel clerks, cops and criminals, bar brawls and alley escapes, are philosophical maunderings. Fun and the search for a happy ending keep us hooked.
Re-read in December 2013. Myth-Nomers and Im-Pervections is still quite readable and funny, but it's (again) a bit thin story-wise as it is the first solo adventure of Skeeve with a few cameos; also, Asprin rambles on a lot about philosophical and moral issues. The author's strength (also, again) is with additions to the supporting cast, specifically Kalvin. On to the next one.
Robert Asprin writes brilliant humor in his MYTH series. He creates an odd assortment of characters that are fun to read about. I would read the books to my family and we laughed our way through all the books. If you like humor, magic, mobsters, demons, dragons, and other such characters, read Robert's MYTH books. If you don't like those kinds of characters, read the books and you will come away with some crazy new friends.
A great change of pace.I always pick up these books when I'm in the mood for some light reading. Damn funny light reading. I've really enjoyed the adventures in the previous editions, but I liked the change of pace of the self examination and soul searching that Skeve undergoes in this volume. At the same time the other characters are growing and changing along with Skeve. Well done and well written!
Na konci minulej poviedkovej knihe Skeeveho opustil Aahz. Skeeve sa s tým nemieni zmieriť a tak sám vyráža na Aahzovu domovskú dimenziu. Tú najhoršiu a najnenavídenejšiu dimenziu Perv. Tam ho samozrejme nečaká nič iné ako problémy a epizódy prameniace z jeho nevedomosti. Na pomoc si berie džina Kelvína, ktorý nie je až tak nápomocný ako spočiatku Skeeve dúfal. V tejto knižke sa má začať mlaďochove dospievanie a posilnenie jeho psyché.
The eighth book in the myth series is somewhat dry and missing some of the humor that is usually present. The hero goes in search of his friend. It is clever in that the hero goes to a place that incorporates magic and modern technology - something like New York in 2008 where magic is common place and used by everyone. There were some funny scenes; but the gem in this is the unique description of Aahz's home demension.
