https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/945011.The_Last_Days_of_Hitler
“Conceivably,” he writes in the introduction to the 1956 edition, “when we remember the narrow and recondite fronts upon which inter-Bolshevik struggles are fought, the question of Hitler’s death, and the official doctrine about it, may have been the symbol of some deeper tension in Russian politics.” Part of what I like in this book is its origin as an intelligence report, the survey of a world in which Hitler wasn’t yet a memory; even the 1956 introduction is far from confident that Nazism will never rise again.
The Russians may well have concealed the manner of Hitler’s suicide for precisely the same reason for which Hitler chose it: because it was a soldier’s death.
Was commissioned and used as the official British intelligence report of death of Hitler and has stood up to the test of time when Russia released its imprisoned Nazis as was verified by many witnesses. A harrowing account of the madness that happened as the Allies closed in- Highly recommended for history buffs.
It must be such fun to write about Nazis because you can be an absolute bitch and what's anyone going to say?: "Himmler himself, everyone is agreed, was an utterly insignificant man, common, pedantic, and mean.
In those qualities Hanna Reitsch preferred to remain without a rival.""As Samuel Butler says, 'the advantage of doing one's praising for one's self is that one can lay it on so thick, and exactly in the right places.'""Narrow-minded and fanatical though he was, Donitz at least had some of the ordinary common sense of the practical man.
A brilliant classic, Trevor-Roper's book, first published in 1950 and amended in 1956, (I have the 1962 edition) step by step follows Adolph Hitler's last week in the bunker and provides a pretty good summary of his last ten months as well as all the myths and legends surrounding his death and supposed survival in South America, (nothing credible there).
In the end, feeling deserted by both of them and angry at the army, Hitler picked an admiral to succeed him as "Fuhrer", but there was really nothing to govern any longer.
A very good description of the "Flensburg Government" that lasted a week after Berlin fell.
Not my usual reading material, this volume filled blanks on two different reading challenges: one for a book published in the year you were born and one for a book about Hitler.
This thoroughly researched and well-reasoned examination of Hitler's last days is fascinating, and I appreciate Trevor-Roper's snipes at some of Hitler's compadres.
For example, he says that Schellenberg and Schwerin von Krosigk "form a perfect pair, the Tweedledum and Tweedledum of pretentious German sillines" (139) and comments of Himmler, "facts do not trouble the bigot and the crank" (74).
Although rare, Trevor-Roper does find an admirable quality or two in some of Hitler's closest circle, but laments their being mesmerized into the Fuehrer's nihilistic program.
All those obstacles in mind, Roper still produced in a mere 200 or so pages a chronicle of Hitlers last days that after 70 years and a bajillion books later, still got the bulk of the story in its main points right.
The Soviets after 2 years of playing dumb to Hitler's fate admitted that they had dug up his charred remains from outside the Reichs Chancellory days after the war.
Even with Berlin in flames, shells landing atop The Bunker and Hitler a smoldering corpse, his surviving Capos like Bormann and Himmler were hoping to join Adm Donitz near the Danish border and negotiate a separate piece with the US and UK to preseve the Nazi State.
My current reading of Haffner's The Meaning of Hitler moved me to pick up an audio edition of Trevor-Roper's book today.
I remember a fair amount about Hitler's last days but don't remember much about Trevor-Roper's book.
I'm curious to learn whether Haffner's book will give me some fresh insights into Hitler's final days.After many interruptions, I've finally finished Trevor-Roper's book.
I was expecting the book to focus closely on the last handful of days that Hitler spent in his bunker before he committed suicide.
H.R. Trevor Roper hat anhand von Zeitzeugen-Berichten ein ziemlich komplettes Bild von den letzten Tagen Hitlers verfasst.
Die Russen erwiesen sich als nicht allzu kooperationsbereit, so musste Roper teilweise warten, bis diverse Zeitzeugen aus der Gefangenschaft nach Hause kamen.Ich habe die bereits überarbeitete Ausgabe von 1955 gelesen, in der manche Fakten bereits klar widerlegt waren und trotzdem wurden sie in dieser Ausgabe nicht ausgebessert.
Auch das ist eine Art von Propaganda.Albert Speer kommt in diesem Buch am besten weg.
Ich fand es sehr interessant und werde mich noch weiter in die Geschehnisse rund um den April 1945 einlesen.
A fascinating account of the events during the last days in "the monkey house" of Hitler's bunker in Berlin in 1945. The final days of the Third Reich are documented with precision and clarity, based on first hand accounts and surviving documentation. An important text which underlines the insanity of the end of the war in Europe.
The English historian Hugh Trevor-Roper takes us down into the depths of the Fürherbunker for a last look around after the fall of Berlin.
Reconstituting the final weeks, he takes us into the pit in which Hitler finally withdrew, after having lived much of the war in a series of other bunkers (or lairs) on the different fronts.
Written only just after the end of the war, (this review refers to the 1947 edition, which I believe has since been revised and updated by the author) it has perhaps been superseded today by other, longer works (Alan Bullock's "Hitler" is the main one that comes to mind).
But not just the facts: the spurious alternatives too, along with well-researched and authoritative descriptions of events and key players, with the occasional surprising burst of character from the author ("If posterity concludes that Schwerin von Krosigk was a ninny, he has only himself to blame....")Always interesting, sometimes disturbing, frequently insightful, this is history such as I haven't read in a long time.Favourite quote: It was an appropriate death, as appropriate as the barbaric funeral of Hitler and the silent, secondary death of Goebbels; appropriate to his character - for it was squalid and delayed - and appropriate to the functions which he could no longer exercise.
This author did NOT think much of the Nazi inner circle. 'Ninny's, simple minded, childish'. His words, not mine. He explored the psychological mind set more than the facts. I didn't learn much new, but it was interesting how they thought. Excellent research.
Trevor-Roper, a professor of History at Oxford and an officer in the Radio Security Service during the war, interviewed every significant witness to Hitler’s final weeks that he could find and created a report for the Intelligence Service.
Trevor-Roper was quite controversial, strongly opinionated, and cultivated arguments with other historians of WWII especially concerning Hitler’s ideology and motivations.
I am, of course, not able to have a personal opinion of any substance concerning the accuracy of his analysis of Hitler’s nature.I was struck by the almost complete absence of mention of the Holocaust (the words Jew or Jewish appear twice), and the author seems to have thought that Hitler’s antisemitism was just a political expediency.
Trevor-Roper's prose is, at times, ingenious, and he weaves a narrative of these events leaving no mercy for people and actions he finds contemptible.
But I must admit that parts of this book were very hard to get through, as they focussed so much on particular people and their roles and lost the sense of an overall narrative.
If you're not familiar with the key Nazi figures and their roles within Hitler's inner circle prior to reading this I imagine it could get rather confusing!This book was a 3 star read for me, but the epilogue bumped it up to 4 stars in just 11 pages.
The author was asked to investigate the whereabouts of Hitler just weeks after the war ended, interviewed most the witnesses to events and s well placed to detail the happenings and those last weeks and days.It is a fascinating insight to the minds of the men whose names are imprinted into history and yet, as I read this book, I realised how little I knew about them.
It is also chilling to see the hold Hitler had over his colleague's and his country.
Седемдесет години по-късно бихме могли да прочетем много по-информативни книги от тази. Но тя поставя началото и е важно да разберем как се е започнало. И ако отношенията между основните действащи лица имат нужда от допълнително обяснение, атмосферата на бункера никога не е описвана по-достоверно.
Excellent read
Remarkable historical story telling. Not much has changed since the original story was told ...
Atmospheric, claustrophobic account of Hitler's final weeks in the Berlin bunker. What started as a forensic, detailed investigation to prove Hitler died, results in an excellent portrayal of a paranoid man's impending death and the grovelling cabal. The Downfall rages are all here, but perhaps creepily he comes across not as mad but merely deluded.
Hugh Trevor-Roper's classic account of the final six months or so of Hitler's life is both thorough and thoughtful. Considering the first edition came out in 1946, it has held up extremely well, not only in its particulars but in its broader discussion of the nature and character of Nazism and dictatorship.
With the dissemination of Soviet propaganda at the close of the Second World War suggesting Hitler had been smuggled alive and well to the West, Trevor-Roper was tasked with dispelling such claims by investigating Hitler’s demise.
It’s fascinating, cloak-and-dagger stuff and Trevor-Roper traces it masterfully, offering time both to the claustrophobic bunker Hitler is hidden within and the wider network of Nazi leaders camped up elsewhere waiting on news of Berlin’s fate.
For one thing, Trevor-Roper’s prose is unusually good for a popular historian, and for another, he limited himself to a careful study of a few weeks in time, which prevents him from making quite such strong over-arching statements.
Today, of course, serious students will want to read Fest’s Inside Hitler's Bunker: The Last Days of the Third Reich, the book that the movie “Der Untergang” was based on.
However, Trevor-Roper gets a lot of the basics right, and watching that movie after reading this book, I didn’t learn a lot of new information.
An exceptional review and recreation of the final days of Nazi Germany, centered on the major players. Trevor-Roper composed this literate and elegant (and largely very accurate) work just a few years after the events, and it still stand up well to the scrutiny of today.And, of course, I enjoy any work like this that can work in a reference to Nicolas Boileau!
Thus, were this book to be read a hundred years from now when the horrible history of Nazism and Hitler has become blurred and forgotten through the fog of time, this book will still provide a vivid explanation of this particular era of human history.I see why The Guardian placed it on its "100 Bests" list and I would have to put it ion mine, too.
Shortly after the end of WWII, British intelligence office Hugh Trevor-Roper was given the task to "establish the facts of Hitler's end, and thereby to prevent the growth of a myth." His report, later published as The Last Days of Hitler, draws on Allied intelligence's interrogations of survivors who spent time in the bunker during the last ten days of Hitler's life.
Trevor-Roper organizes his book chronologically, but it's more a series of character sketches than a strict time line of events.
I would have given the book another star if it wasn't all so depressing.
The Last Days of Hitler is an outstanding book that provides a compelling, penetrating look at the last days of the Nazi regime and its maniacal leader.
But the most compelling aspect of this book is its depiction of the prevailing theater in which the entire Nazi mythology comes crashing down: Hitler’s brittle mental state and his infamous tantrum on Apr 22nd, 1945; the twisted, childlike joy of his top brass once he committed suicide (they were finally allowed to smoke); the naïve Nazi leaders who thought they could cling to power after Germany’s surrender (quixotic to the last).
In the end, the book offers a morbidly fascinating look at the power structure and psychology (or is it psychopathy?) of the world’s worst regime, and the final, fatal fall of its figurehead.

Perhaps, in essence, nothing important can be added, but the story presented here is dated, incomplete.
We now know much more since this was first published (I read a 1973 edition, first edition is 1946.) We know more about what was going on in Soviet Union, and we know what happened to Bormann, for instance.
Still, the book, as the better-read say, remains close to essential.
It not only takes one as close to the events of that April as possible, it also works very well in re-constructing the set pieces and presents some clean, sober conclusions.
I thought it an interesting book, full of insights both into Germany and how the Allies, particularly Britain, thought of the Nazis.
What is striking is not how evil they all were, but how banal the end was.
The author spends one, dry and unemotional, paragraph on the actual deaths of Hitler and Eva Braun.The other striking thing is how much power Hitler still retained over the entire country when it was cut in two and the Russians were at their throat and he was basically trapped in the Bunker.
History can be truly bizarre.Actually read this book in late April, finished it on April 29.
One of the best books i have ever read .
He also analyze very good what kind of persons they were , which were their thoughts and their actions .
It's very easy to read this book because it doesn't stays on tactical information but only in Human stuff and human reactions .
Also Mr. Trevor-Roper is very objective and he analyze the good and the bad characteristics of every person and he doesn't stay only in the bad but he also says and he tries to understand why all these guys did these terrible things .
