https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41591.The_Great_Crash_of_1929
To regard the people of any time as particularly obtuse seems vaguely improper, and it also establishes a precedent which members of this generation might regret. The strength of this book is its sharp focus. I read Lords of Finance which covers, broadly speaking, the same topic, but that was one of those fashionably long books that shows the reader plenty of trees, but leaves no sense of the shape of the forest. How different Galbraith's book.The very narrowness and interest in precise details
The sense that Galbraith describes in those times that growth was inevitable and the that the rollercoaster could only ever climb higher, despite a structure built of insolvent companies, an inadequate customer base and a certain amount of sharp if not technically illegal practice, which seemed for some odd reason curiously familiar.In the droll discussion of the business meeting to do no-business, or of the rites of leading figures making theatrical interventions to support the market there is a sense of the author as anthropologist, all economic activity is above all human interaction and as such about confidence, hopes and fears.
He speculates that the myth started as people assumed that investors broken by the crash ought to have been so depressed as to have thrown themselves from windows and “One can only guess how the suicide myth became established.
This then forces down the value of blue ribbon stock.So, bad stock, in a round about way, forces good stock to lose value.The truly frightening thing about this book is the number of times ‘experts’, such as Hoover and others, are quoted as saying the same sorts of phrases we are a bit sick of hearing today.
أعتقد أنه كتاب يهم المتخصصين أكثر من القراء الغير متخصصين ..
وعليه فأنا كقارئ يضع دائماً التوقعات العظيمة ويعول على الكتاب من مجرد الاسم ..
For a book on economic issues this is entertaining!
It has sardonic wit.Mr. Galbraith (Canadian born by the way) explores the before, then the dark days of October 1929, and the devastating aftermath.What is interesting throughout, is the constant flow of reassurances, from those who should (I suppose) have known better, that the “economy was solid” along with a multitude of similar buoyant phrases.
We have not, so far, had a similar depression.
It has been almost ten years since the economic downslide of 2008.
Some of the passages utilizing economic terminology were beyond me!
A Mr. Charles Ponzi was also heavily involved in the buzz, selling dozens of plots of real estate per acre of Florida swamp land.-Buying stocks on margin - that is, borrowing money in order to invest larger sums.
It directly contributed to the crash by lessening demand, preventing any trust in investment or banking, and made many people suspicious of the entire financial system-Furthermore, in many areas of the financial sector, it involved a creation of bad incentives - a system where it is an incentive to lie.Galbraith is incisive, quick, but also thorough.
الكتاب يلف ويدور ويكرر نفسه ولا يعطي تحليل دقيق ل(لأحداث ما قبل الانهيار واثناءه ولا يمل م تمرار ما يقوله قي كل الفصول يمكن حشر كل المئتي صفحة في خمسون وستكون أكثر من كافية ليقول كل ما يريده. يمكن القول بأنك ستخرج بعد قراءته مع معرفة دقيقة بما كان يحدث قبل وأثناء الانهيار ولكنك لن تعرف لماذا حدث أبداً وما الذي يريد الكاتب ايصاله لك
I first read John Kenneth Galbraith's The Great Crash of 1929 in college (or was it high school- so many years ago) and rereading it now, it retains its crisp narration and wittiness. It is not a long book, reflecting that Galbraith concisely covers the build-up to the crash and its aftermath.
Galbraith produced his short book on the Great Stock Market Crash of 1929 in late 1954 in an atmosphere that still recalled recent witch hunts over communism (a fact that will help an early twenty-first century reader with some of the few obscure political references).
In some ways, the consequent economic crisis is the story of the loss of an upper middle class surplus available to purchases the good and services that would have kept the rest of America working.And this is where we see the similarities and differences from today.
The question that I keep asking throughout is, how could this be allowed to happen?There are sound explanations in the last chapter of the cause of the 1929 crash and the consequent Great Depression which lasted for a decade up to World War II, and also in the brilliant last paragraph why it can't be prevented from happening again in the future.Chapter X Cause and Consequence."Many things were wrong, but five weaknesses seem to have had an especially intimate bearing on the ensuing disaster.
cutting taxes and increasing spending)* The merciless chain-reaction of margin calls and stop-loss orders which, together, greatly accelerated the downward plunging of stock prices* The role of academics in providing a veneer of legitimacy to various ill-conceived schemes (one immediately calls Long-Term Capital Management to mind)* The seduction of traditional watchdogs, mentioned in Galbraith's words above.
Galbraith offers at least this hope for the future, however: the unlikelihood of another asset bubble in the immediate future:"...a speculative outbreak has a greater or less immunizing effect.
In my fairly limited experience, the only (modern native English) writer with a comparable voice for non-fiction prose was Bertrand Russell.The book is a reply to the canonical history of the crash, and its relation to the succeeding Depression.
Galbraith shows in a handsome variety of ways, how that history contradicts many easily observed facts.
A better history is set out in parallel.Most satisfying is the way in which Galbraith assures the reader that the stupidity of policymakers of the twenties won't be repeated, since too much was learned from what happened.
Of course, had he lived to see 2008-2011, he would have found that today's fiscal hawks are the professional charlatans of the twenties come back to life.
I read half of this book before taking it back to the library.
It has some good observations, but I found A Nation in Torment by Edward Ellis to be a better book.
I suspect the reason why most talk-up this book and Galbraith in general is that he served in the FDR administration, was educated at Harvard, and takes a Keynsian approach to economics.
He'd later serve in the Truman, Kennedy, and Johnson administrations.The book is short and slanted too much toward the bankers, in my mind.
Very readable, easy to understand, it flows quite nicely. I'd say it's a good introduction and overall it offered a great general view on the period/phenomenon. But if you are really wondering what caused the Great Depression, I would highly recommend Eichengreen's article"The Origins and Nature of the Great Slump Revisited". It's not as entertaining as this book, and quite frankly I greatly dislike Eichengreen's writing style, but that is the real deal.
see the great depression: america, 1929-1941 "review" a little more enjoyable because he speaks in terms i understand
What Galbraith gets across, without ever really saying it explicitly, is that speculative bubbles are, in the end, more a result of people's attitudes and beliefs than of factors we would consider "economic" (interest rates and the like).
(He also spends awhile addressing the utterly uninteresting question of whether a similar bust is likely in the near future).
They are:1.) The bad distribution of income." Uh oh, that sounds familiar.2.) The bad corporate structure.
Another red flag.3.) The bad banking structure." Glass-Steagall has been repealed, and we now have 'Too Big to Fail'.
Uh oh.4.) The dubious state of foreign balance." Galbraith was referring to the US being the largest creditor nation and then imposing tariffs restricting trade.
We are the largest debtor nation and once again are talking about tariffs and restrictions on trade.
Millions of Americans know all too well the precarious state of the economy.
An account of the stock market crash of 1929, with some very interesting observations about the relationships between finance, government and the media.
Throughout the story, he takes quotes from many different sources at the time to give us an understanding of how leaders in finance, business and government attempt to calm people in difficult times and give the appearance that they are solving problems even though they are powerless to affect the course of events.I have seen Galbraith quoted by many people on both sides of the current debate about government spending and it's impact on stimulating the economy.
Galbraith's The Great Crash 1929 is an easy read and gives historical context to the current financial mess in the U.S. It was first published in 1955 and never manages to get out of print because another financial bubble bursts and people like me look for explanations.
Turns out people today are like people from yesterday - they want to make easy money and when banks and the government encourage spendthrift behaviour and reckless speculation, people start to believe that they deserve to be rich and maybe even God wants them to be rich.
Property bubbles, speculation, lack of regulation, irrational exuberance and a belief that free people are entitled to the freest market possible - it all sounds very familiar.
Prof. Galbraith's analysis of the 1929 Crash is thoroughly applicable to the 2008 Crash, at least to my own analysis of the current event. This is truly a gem of institutional economic history. My one quibble is that at the end of the book, where he tends more to prescription, that he places more emphasis on the "speculative mood" than the very real and problematic structures of leverage which make such a "mood" economically reasonable and profitable until the crash.
What a cool funny informative book. This book was written back in the 1950's and, while it's been revised over the years, this info is totally relevant and the they way the author has written this is quirky, funny, and not dry at all.
One of the few books that Galbraith failed to make money on.But it's well worth reading because as I write this today on the 10th of December 2007, it looks like this housing bubble is going to be  UNPECEDENTED  in the amount of damage done as it finally bursts.
The book gave a very detailed description and the various reasons that might have lead to the Great Depression, it also included a lot of details of the events like the action bankers and politicians took before the crash. It did bore me a little bit toward the end because of how much information it gives you. You would like this book if you enjoy American history
A highly recommended read for anyone interested in finance, economics, investing and/or regulation.Below are excerpts from the books that summarize key learnings:1- "No one can doubt that the American people remain susceptible to the speculative mood - to the conviction that enterprise can be attended by unlimited rewards in which they, individually, were meant to share.
Cause and effect run from the economy to the stock market, never the reverse."7- "Bagehot - Every great crisis reveals the excessive speculations of many houses which no one before suspected."8- "Moreover, regulatory bodies, like the people who comprise them, have a marked life cycle.
One of those great books by liberals that can't but reaffirm one's belief in the obvious rightness of Marxism (only jokingly nodded to here, but at least respected as a threat). It's genuinely *hilarious* and read in conjunction with any book about 2008 would be bound to forcibly march someone a few steps left.
In “The Great Crash: 1929” John Kenneth Galbraith wrote on the great depression in a manner very different from regular books discussing the topic of finance.
Galbraith wrote on how the stock market crashed because Americans began to believe that the stock market would never fall, and they could make money by doing no work.
Galbraith describes how during the times of the Roaring 20’s Americans were extremely confident in the stock market, and were not afraid to invest money into these companies.
What caused the crash to happen is that the people began to speculate that the stock market couldn’t prosper for as long as it has been.
Crónica do crash bolsista de 1929, que levaria à Grande Depressão, com efeitos devastadores, dento e fora dos Estados Unidos.Galbraith, que era um académico e um economista sagaz, procedeu a um levantamento historiográfico com o à-vontade dum bom narrador, ainda por cima provido de humor -- o que, num tema árido como este, é feito de monta (não foi em vão que John Kenneth Galbraith se deixou tentar pela ficção).A mentalidade do especulador é esta: fazer muito dinheiro com pouco trabalho e no mais curto espaço de tempo possível.
But Galbraith also draws careful and circumspect conclusions, which gives this book a timeless quality, as if it could apply to economic catastrophes in any era.Here is Galbraith describing the use of margin loans to buy stock, which fueled the market's rise: "Everywhere men of means told themselves that 12 per cent was 12 per cent.
A great river of gold began to converge on Wall Street, all of it to help Americans hold common stock on margin."Or here, describing the challenge of economic policy: "A bubble can be easily punctured.
I missed the sense of foreboding and climaxing that modern authors have been able to communicate - Galbraith's book is much more calm than a huge crash like this deserves.
Also, I found it strange and a bit disappointing that he didn't try too much to link the financial bubble and crash to the real economy - both in the background of the story as well as the aftermath.
I'd say there are two obvious things you could include in a book about the crash.
The first is to detail all the crazy anecdotes about farmers becoming millionaires and people jumping out of Wall Street windows, etc, all that sensationalist stuff.
The second is to actually give you an understanding of why the crash happened.
But it felt to me that this book couldn't really decide which of those things it wanted to achieve, and kind of brushed quickly over both.
It doesn't go into enough detail to really give any deep understanding of the economic issues underlying the crash.
يتتبع غالبرايث ماحدث في وول ستريت قبيل الانهيار الكبير في البورصة والذي أدى بدوره الى الكساد الكبير..ومن ثم في الفصل الأخير يحلل أسباب هذا الانهيار ويتنبأ بما قد يحدث في المستقبل..المثير في هذا الفصل أن كل ما استعرضه من عوامل تحمي الاقتصاد من الوقوع في كساد آخر تم تفكيكها في المستقبل..ونفس العوامل تقريباً التي أدت إلى انهيار البورصة في ١٩٢٩ هي التي أدت الى كارثة ٢٠٠٨.٣ نجوم لأن لم يستعرض العيوب الهيكلية في الاقتصاد الامريكي الا في النهاية، وتمنيت لو أنه تتبع مساراتها منذ البدايةلا أنصح الغير مهتمين بالاقتصاد بقرائته
