https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/55398.House_of_Chains
I'm pissed that Ralph Lister isn't the narrator any more. Why? Did something happen to him? The other dude isn't bad but still. Karsa can kiss my @ss. I liked my old characters and Adjunct Tavore! That's all I got. You can go read the million of long drawn out smart reviews on the book. I'm not caring for reviewing or reading really, not with this shit cancer going on. So don't mind me. I will always love the Malazan world! Well, until I get to the one I'm going to hate!! Mel 🖤🐺
=== 4.65 ===Better the second time around! This saga just keeps getting bigger and better!
The other great stuff that happened in this book was the development that was put to the world-building and the returning characters that appeared in the first book.Just like how the plot line in Memories of Ice serves as a direct sequel to Gardens of the Moon, House of Chains serves as a direct sequel to Deadhouse Gates.
This means that a lot of familiar faces do make a return as the story continues in the Seven Cities after the end of Deadhouse Gates; at the same time connecting the story to what happened in Memories of Ice and beyond.
I was excited to read about the convergence of storylines from the last two books and I wanted revenge for some deaths, especially the ones from the Deadhouse Gates.I started this thinking I was going to be thrown in the middle of the battle but Erikson had other plans.
I managed to get the hold of things eventually but it dragged the story for me and took away some of my enjoyment.I wanted to read about the clash of the armies in the Raraku desert but I got just a glimpse of it in a couple of skirmishes and when the clash finally came it was over in a blink of an eye and it was so uncharacteristically underwhelming and I was left with mixed feelings.
And all that opposes it is an untested commander with an army of fresh recruits…House of Chains is a return to the Seven Cities story arc that was opened in the second book of the series.
A return to the place where the Chain of Dogs was slaughtered to the last man and where a gargantuan rebellion against the Malazan Empire rages with religious fervor.And yet the book begins on distant Genabackis, where a young Teblor leads a raiding party far away from his village, venturing forth with the ambition to slay thousands of ‘children’.
And the fourth instalment in the Malazan Book of the Fallen is more than anything Karsa Orlong’s story.
There will be slaughter. Yet another apocalypse on Raraku's restless sands. It is as it should be. Retribution is at hand for the rise of the Seven Cities rebellion as the new Adjunct to the Empress arrives to lead the Malazan army to face Sha'ik and her Army of the Apocalypse. The Holy Desert of Raraku continues to emanate despair, even more so now than ever after the Chain of Dogs left in its trails the miasma of vengeance and grief. The House of Chains weighed like a ton of bricks on my psyc
Erikson did a marvellous job at empathically portraying the thoughts and emotions that such regiments had to confront, particularly focusing upon the points-of-view of two vastly different individuals; a new Fist who was never more than just a soldier who became captain of a noble house and a wearied returning veteran of Raraku.
Karsa Orlong of the Teblor, a tribal giant race that thrived on the notion of glory from domination and killing, wrought from distorted histories and false gods, started off as an arrogant, bloodthirsty and violent warrior that was extremely difficult to like.
Through the development of his arc, Karsa became one of the most complex characters thus far.
Which happened to me several times when reading this book.* Chapter 26: Tavore you said yourself, that sometimes knowledge is not enough.
Chapter 22: Don’t worry Tavore, all wars are personal (just look at Iskaral Pust and his wife).
This little brat?!Chapter 18: This insight into the cold iron of Tavore instantly elevated her into my favourite female of this book series.
But then, Karsa's sculptures are more like Easter Island statues.Chapter 9: Children of Farther Light, I am sorely disappointed in you.
All I can give you is a chapter breakdown of my own chain of thoughts.The Malazan Book of the Fallen:1.
A buddy read with the lovely ladies Sade and Orient. Thank you for putting up with me on this adventure. :D ‘Is that all we mortals are? The victims of tortured irony to amuse an insane murder of gods?’ House of Chains is another fantastic addition to The Malazan book of the Fallen. This book started off a little different than the previous installments. The first 20% of the book was focused on one main character, and his journey from his homeland in northern Genabackis to the desert continent o
The first 20% of the book was focused on one main character, and his journey from his homeland in northern Genabackis to the desert continent of Seven Cities.
The new Adjunct Tavore Paran has taken over the city of Aren and plans to march a company of recruits into the holy desert of Raraku against Sha’ik and her Whirlwind rebellion.
As in all Malazan books we have a huge cast of characters.
The immensity of this world, characters, magic system, and everything in between is well worth the time put into reading them.
New characters such as Karsa Orlong, L'oric and Trull Sengar become favourites straight away and that is down to Erikson's skill as a writer.
I will admit that I go a bit sentimental when we find out what characters such as Quick Ben, Kalam and Fiddler are up to when reading.
In the first few books, the world Erikson was describing was so vast and complicated it was sometimes confusing and I had to read certain sections more than once.
I will say that I am looking to start reading Midnight Tides straight away as I can't wait to be thrown headfirst back into Erikson's world.
This was a great read, and while it lacked the emotional impact and sense of grandeur of MoI and the Chain of Dogs it added a new aspect to this series in proving that Erikson can write an engaging, focused story with the best in the genre.As a bold young warrior sets out from his isolated mountain village to carve for himself a path to fortune and glory, he finds that the world is far different than his grandfather’s stories had him believe.
Shadow is ever besieged, for that is its nature. Whilst darkness devours, and light steals. And so one sees shadow ever retreat to hidden places, only to return in the wake of the war between dark and light. This series is far becoming one of my favourite series, there is absolutely nothing I don’t like about this series, the world is amazing, the cultures, races, religion, gods etc. are so unique, I seriously have not seen anything like this before. Just like its predecessors this book has lot
Onrack the Broken is a T’lan Imass, but lacks their indifferent attitude, he is instead sympathetic and kind, just like Tool, He befriended  Trull Sengur a Tiste Edur, I really enjoyed their part in the book, and what they discovered, can’t mention cause of spoilers.Crokus and Apsalar have a weird relationship with Cotillion, mainly cause of what he did to Apsalar, his other reason are still unknown to me, so they went on another adventure that was filled with battles and near death situations, I love these two so much, the only teenagers in this whole Malazan series, apart from Felisin.
I think there’s nobody out there that haven't heard about  Conan the Cimmerian.   "The Barbarian." The essential one, and if not the first one, then the most recognizable and influential character that shaped the genre of epic fantasy. When it comes to books he is a talking, fighting, drinking, brooding grim-dark, sword and sorcery sub-genres trope. Especially in past 20 years when we have witnessed not just revival but full on blossoming of such genres where anti-heroes are taking the spotlight
We wish for this troubled, heroic, and already fan-favourite fisherman bent on vengeance nothing but success.Oh, just how many books with this similar beginning or entire premise have we all read?So, it’s no wonder that Erikson, who already decided to spit in the face of the genre with his series, within the series itself, in writing his own Conan the Barbarian in character of 
Which, to me, is cowardly, weakly and most importantly - boring.Karsa, to me, is the weakest link Malazan Book of the Fallen series has to offer.To get back to Zezili Hasaria, the reason why I find her more interesting than Karsa, despite both having appalling similarities, is because Zezili Hasaria had a change of heart when she was the strongest, when she was most powerful.
Re-Read:The first time through this was the weakest of the ten books for me.
Although the ending still lacked the convergence power in the endings of all the other books in the series I found so many hidden breadcrumbs I missed the first time around.
So many poetic moments that had more power this time around.
I had forgotten, missed or misinterpreted a lot that first times.
I remember the relief the first time around when I finally read the word Malazan in this book for the first time.
The ending while another great convergence I had issues with how some of them went down.
While it ends with an epic battle and has some excellent character moments, I still skipped the whole first quarter of Karsa.
Yes, he shows some serious growth through the book and his answer to Bidithal has my full appreciation, but otherwise he gets on my last nerve.One of the things that occurred to me because of this was how much more rereaders get from this series.
It works for me because I can skip Karsa's origin story and jump in when he meets Keeper, where it starts to get interesting.
It's the same for any book, I suppose, but I feel it in this series more than any other.
I don't know what to say about this book, rn. yet again, I'm left mentally and emotionally exhausted. and sad. it is a wee bit different this time,though. encompassing one.will try to write a review later.
At least this one didn’t gut my insides out like the previous two books but again there seems to be no such thing as a happy ending when you are in the world of the Malazans.I’m really never sure where the book is going to take me and this one again starts off with a culture and people that we don’t really seem to know.
Don’t get me wrong there is still some very cool stuff that happens and I especially liked what happened to the Dog Killers but I wanted Tevore and Sharik’s story line to end a little differently I guess.One of the more followable books in the series for me.
This was another fantastic 5 star instalment in the Malazan Book of the Fallen saga.
Just like with the previous books Steven Erikson did a great job of juggling a massive cast of characters and ongoing plot arcs before pulling them all together for an explosive and exciting conclusion.
It is always amusing and engaging.All in all I loved this latest Malazan book and cannot wait for the next one!Rating: 5 stars.Audio Note: This is the first book where Michael Page has taken over narration duties from the excellent Ralph Lister.
I am not going to re-write my original review because it is all still relevant. The only thing I would add, is that it is even better second time round. But since I was already on five stars there is nothing to improve.Story: 4/5 1: Being Vague, rambling plot with no little believable storyline5: Ripping yarn, clever, thought provoking Without doubt my favourite in the series so far. If you have read the previous three and wondering whether to start number four. Stop reading this and go read Hou
Certainly the first time I have been reading a book in mid series and thought “I’d love to go back and start again now I know all this”.
Maybe the story is just to big to be told?The story brings together the Malazan Empire against the Apocalypse army of the whirlwind goddess, which has one of the strangest final battles I have ever read.
A truely terrible man, that even the gods cannot control, yet a favourite for many readers.The book continues to bring wonderful relationships to the story, the Malazan army has units that really are made up of odd types, who like each other, hate each other, bicker, fight and die for each other.
"Hatred is a most pernicious weed, finding root in any kind of soil. It feeds on itself"-Torvald Nom It's almost funny that what i feel is the general theme for this book in this series is perfectly captured by a minor character in the book. Like all stories in the malazan series, there is the general sense that doing justice to it in my reviews might not always be possible. So here goes nothing.Can i just say before i delve into characters that totally wowed me that Book 4 reminded me eerily o
To be a god is to know the burdens of believers.
There is a general understanding among majority of the mortal characters in the Malazan world that gods are not to be trusted.
(view spoiler)[At the end of it all, Felisin end was heartbreaking "I just wanted to know, Tavore, why you did it.
I- I think that's what i wanted to know" (hide spoiler)] SOB******All in all this was an amazing read especially when you realise it basically sets the stage for more epic things to come, i mean what's L'Oric up to exactly?
One of the (many) things I appreciate about this series is, so far at least, when the author devastates his readers in one book he switches the focus in the next, allowing us to recover our equilibrium…though not completely.
Gardens of the Moon was a great introduction to the Malazan world and Deadhouse Gates and Memories of Ice both had endings that gutted me, leaving me feeling sad for days.
It’s still a worthy book, and no one can fault the author for the incredible world and history he’s creating, but it’s definitely my least favorite of the series so far.
This is an easy five.  This is what you'd call a tardy review (finished the book months ago) “Hatred, sweet as nectar.I have walked into the abyss.I am as mad as that goddess. And this is why she chose me, for we are kindred souls... Then what is this ledge to which I still cling so desperately? Why do I persist in my belief that I can save myself? That I can return . . . find once more the place where madness cannot be found, where confusion does not exist.The place ... of childhood.”  Many re
Others complain they were cheated of an expected major, epic battle (that didn't come), and there are those that hated Karsa as a character at the beginning of the book, and complained about it till the end missing the rest of the story.
We've been reading different books obviously.Epic battle missing?
The so much anticipated clash between the Malazan forces and the Whirlwind rebels would have diminished the impact of that long awaited, tragic face-off between Adjunct Tavore and her sister Felisin (now 'Sha'ik Reborn').
but Erikson makes you care for unexpected characters.And as for those (few) readers that wished (view spoiler)[for the Whirlwind rebellion to succeed ...
Now comes the time for the Holy Dessert to weep"This series is just way better than I could've ever imagined!
While this one wasn't as exciting as Memories of Ice, it's still a 5 star book in it's own rights.
The only thing I had a small problem with, at the time, was how the first quarter of the book was set up.
Karsa Orlong is the first character that I have both loved and hated at the same time.
But with Karsa, I hated him in the beginning and he really grew on me to the point where I would get goosebumps during his crazy scenes lol.
Liberazione dalle catene "Il cuore non viene dato né rubato.
Il cuore si arrende."La sopravvivenza passa attraverso infanzie rovinate, tradimenti dettati da inclinazioni naturali - non lo è anche la deliberata scelta di abbracciare il male?
I know I’m sounding like a broken record, but yet again, my reread of House of Chains has been a far superior experience compared to the initial read.
Part of that has to do with already knowing a lot of the characters coming in and knowing who will play major roles going forward, leaving the grey matter free to unpack the dense world building, plot, and themes.
There is also the added enjoyment of discussing the book as part of a group read at The Malazan Fallen here on Goodreads.
It also makes it a lot easier to single out a character for special mention as a big chunk of this book is his story and his journey.
So, of course, to keep everyone on their toes, the format is totally different for the first book of House of Chains and we only follow one character: Karsa Orlong.
The few moments Felisin shined through gave great emotional depth to her character; in particular, the obsession she has with Tavore and her reflections on her sister  (hide spoiler)].A new duo I ended up liking a lot was Pearl and Lostara.
A last minute appearance by (view spoiler)[ Quick Ben to help Kalam and let him know the Brigdeburners have ascended: wow.
Frankly, I'm just in love with these "books of the Fallen," series.The only thing that troubled me is that sometimes his story telling can bog down into "two heads talking history while a tortoise wanders by," and those who've read this book will know the reference, well at this point the pace dragged and became - with no pun intended - tortoise like.As for Karsa - loved him from the start - what a majestic, charismatic character, and I look forward to finding out what happens next.Strongly recommend this book and the series for anyone with a passion for epic, heroic, dark, gritty fantasy.
A great BR with the queen of Red Blades and the king of Claws.It’s my fourth adventure in Malazan and what can I say, I’m getting used to a load of characters and I know that my mind will be blown away again ;) Characters. I enjoy the epicness and the fun I get watching the interaction among the characters.  Braven Tooth! That bastard's still alive?' 'It was hard to tell at times,' Smiles muttered. 'Until his temper snapped,' Koryk added. 'Just ask Corporal Tarr there. Braven Tooth spent near tw
A great BR with the queen of Red Blades and the king of Claws.It’s my fourth adventure in Malazan and what can I say, I’m getting used to a load of characters and I know that my mind will be blown away again ;) Characters.
Can’t wait to see how he’d react when meeting some of other the great warriors or more of the gods :) This book offers the final countdown between two sisters, (view spoiler)[Miss Whirlwind an Tavore.
I always say that I’m more into characters when reading, but to my mind Malazan has a really strong side of the story, too.
I had high hopes for this book.
It continues the story of Deadhouse Gates in the end of which a lot of people was really pissed off at Apocalypse rebels for slaughtering Coltaine's army thanks to betrayal on high level of command.
Well, the first mention of these people came in after 1/3 of the book.
Once the plot came back to two opposing armies, things finally get really interesting.
I also need to mention that this is the first Malazan book where I finally became confused and lost in the names of races, warrens, events, places, etc.
He does some terrible things, yet he knows no better until he's forced to venture away from his tribe and out into the wider world.Karsa was certainly the heaviest focus in this book, particularly in the beginning, but seeing as I love characters who are 'flawed' or interesting and characters that I really want to develop, he was brilliant.
House of Chains is a book to be experienced, at times quickly taking in the action and the wonderful world.
This book like the others sees many returning favorite characters and points of view.
House of Chains does something unique in that the first 20% of this book follows one point of view, a new character named Karsa Orlong.
He steals the story in this book and is now one of my favorite characters.
I would love to read single POV'S by him.The overall story and plot of the whole series is in one word epic.
