https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/66683.The_Thousand_Orcs
3.5 stars. It was really fun to read about the companions again! It's been ages since I've read any of the Drizzt novels, and I've missed them. I would have given this a full four stars except the little parts in chapters with all of the extra characters seemed a bit too much. They definitely tied into the story, and Pikel and Ivan gave me a good laugh (as they always have), but it just seemed to be a bit of a distraction sometimes. All around it was entertaining though.
The characters themselves are wearing thin, with Wulfgar being the only enjoyable one to me.
The character is too powerful, unrelatable, and hinders and/or trivializes any story.
Oh, and while I'm on the subject, his little journal entries don't work Bob, so just drop it.I'm not a complete hater and Salvatore(I loved his demon books, as well as his Cadderly stuff), and he is a great memory from my childhood, but he will be much better off if he stopped writing Drizzt for a while, if not forever once this latest Orc trilogy is complete.
For this trilogy you really get the whole spectrum – intro and slow rise, building and tension, and then the roller coaster of seeing it all come together.That’s what you get with the three books.
This first book starts out slow.
But other than that, this was a good book.I like the last 100 pages best, when you see some epic battling and some cool stuff with a wizard’s tower.
The alliances with Gerti and Obould are also good.Overall, I enjoyed this book much more on the second reading.
I’ll do the whole trilogy in a row, as this seems like vintage Salvatore.
That is what Drizzt Do'urden and his companions face in The Thousand Orcs, by R.A. Salvatore.
In the book, Drizzt, along with his companions who are Cattie-Brie, Wulfgar, Regis, and Bruenor, return to Mithral Hall to crown Bruenor king as a result of his predecessor dying.
Things that have the potential of leading them to their deaths.I wanted to read this book, because I'm an avid fan of fantasy, especially the series that involve Drizzt Do'urden.
So, if you like fantasy adventures, go pick up this book!
This book had some annoying foreshadowing in what I believe was an attempt to add suspense to the otherwise standard hack and slash Drizzt adventure.
This amounted to a bad use of technique, where a better narrative, editorial process, or better executed plot timeline could have given the reader that suspenseful scene that I think RA was striving to create.Also, can we stop using the stupid Trojan Horse Ex Deus Machina crap...PLEASE!!!
It just highlights some of the issues that I spoke of above, lack of planning, bad editing, and/or poorly executed narrative.
But I found this to be a spectacularly unsophisticated fantasy novel.
I'm not entirely sure what the connection is between novels centered around him and the Dungeons and Dragons game.
I know this book was published by Wizards of the Coast, which created the game also.
So maybe it was just used to sell more copies of the game or give RPG-ers something to dig into while not playing.
Even if that's the case, I feel like R.A. Salvatore is not my favorite dungeon master.
If you're really into smash-mouth, D&D-style fantasy stories, this might be up your ally.
I love this book.
It was my first Drizzt book and after reading all the others, it's still my favorite.
I could barely put it down even at the beginning when I was confused at what was going on.
It has such an interesting mix of so many different kinds of characters that it would be enjoyable for all.Salvatore does such a great job describing the action scenes, especially the swordfighting.
slash left, stab." He also does a great job of giving the reader a break from all the action and suspense by adding humor.
I wish Salvatore keeps more Drizzt coming for many, many years.
Go Drizzt!!
Afterwards, they travelled north but To-Be-King Bruenor, Catti-Brie, Wulfgar, Regis and Drizzt and a score of dwarves meet some dwarves that had been ambushed by Orcs.
-Catti-brie (human female; adoptive daughter of Bruenor) deals with her relationship with Drizzt a Drow.
So he has a lot in his mind.-Bruenor, all his life the dwarf only wanted to return to his ancestors dwelling place, Mithral Hall.
The elves as they see with caution the appearance of the Orcs in the forest and then we've got the evil alliance of Drows, Orcs and Giants who want nothing more than to destroy Mithrall Hall and Drizzt.
Good points:The action scenes were fun, there was a nice spread of characters and the ending was satisfying, up to a point.
Not so good points:I think my main complaint was that I didn't feel invested in the characters by the time I reached the end.
I grew up reading the Icewind Dale trilogy and know the people.
Perhaps had I read it again before I began this it would have helped.
I did enjoy the development of the characters and their concerns.
So, for a fun, simple read that ticks all the necessary fantasy cliches, I would recommend this book.
"I am not afraid to die because I know that I am part of a something, a concept, a belief, that is bigger than all that is me, body and soul."R.A. Salvatore's Drizzt series is a staple of the fantasy genre.
You almost can't talk about fantasy books and not relate back to Drizzt somehow.
It is a fantastic series, and this one is one of the best books in it thus far.
It does seem a little bit like Salvatore is trying to redo what worked for him before.
The group heads out from Icewind Dale to help Bruenor claim the crown of Mithril Hall, AND there’s going to be a grand adventure of trying to find an ancient Dwarven stronghold.
I don’t care though, if it means there’s two more books on the way I’m happy.[return]What I found lacking in the book was that the relationship between Cattie-Brie and Drizzt goes splat.
But, I guess Salvatore was just looking for a little drama.
I’d love to see little Drizzt-Brie.
2.5 stars.
Pretty much Tolkien's "The Two Towers" retold with Salvatore's characters.
It was just way, way too similar.
Actually, exactly the same plot.
Kind of disappointing after "Sea of Swords" which I enjoyed immensely.My favorite parts?
Every scene involving Regis, he has become my favorite character of the whole series - Drizzt, the main hero, is just way too frickin' whiny.
Drizzt and Catti-brie.
I'm now really glad that Wulfgar got together with Delly Curtie because she's more down-to-earth and stronger than Catti-brie with her unending "issues" that are becoming more and more annoying with every book.
Found on the mailroom table at my apt.
Not the worst book I've ever read, but very, very far from the best.
I am a big D&D fan, but never read any of the novels.
Now I know why.
I've lost track of the number of gaming cliches I've identified, but dwarves speaking like hillbilies and drow with darkly mysterious pasts should have clued me to what I was getting into ...
I also should remember to beware of books that come in series ...
and worse, are part of at least two series ...
Stop me, before I read again.
3 stars for the nostalgia alone. Zero stars for the rest. Sometimes I still feel like a dumb teenager, but books like these make me realize I've grown up, at least a little bit. I'll finish the 3 book series but don't try this at home unless you're 13 yo or so.
Very political but never boring!
This time though Bruenor the dwarf is none to pleased about it as it looks certain that he must be the next king of Mithral Hall, a position he does not want.By now these characters must be very familiar to avid Salvatore readers.
And, as you can guess, Drizzt and his long time friends are going to get caught directly in the middle of it all.And boy do they ever.
You actually get the sense of the futility of fighting 1000 orcs and a dozen frost giants from the heros and town defenders perspective.
Also if you have never heard of R.A. Salvatore and are just interested in a good book this would be a catching and easy read for those who love stuff like dark elves and fantasy and war.
He wants a war with the dwarves so he leads some of his people out of their dark holes and starts raiding caravans and small villages by the spine of the world.
So to all you people who love good and fast reading this is a book I liked and I recommend it.
This is a different kind of book for Salvatore.It was soooo slow for the first 200 pages - we had at
The Thousand Orcs is apart of The Hunter’s Blades Trilogy, which in itself is part of a long line of book by R.
A. Salvatore.Here is a Drizzt and company book that I enjoyed.
Filled with action from almost the get-go.
The past few books that I have read from Salvatore didn’t highlight Drizzt’s adventures and I found myself a little bored with them.Thousand Orcs is setting up for a grander battle down the line and I am excited to read what happens next.However, still not a fan of Pikel and Ivan.
I feel that they take me away from the story that I am reading.
Really liked this one - lots of hack and slash and moving characters around - LOVED that IVAN & Pickel Bouldershoulder made their reapperance - those guys crack me up.Best of all, NO DROW "Intrigues"All that jazz gets old fast...I listened to this rather than reading it, and I got SICK of the moron who read it promouncing Cattie Brie as KAT EYE BRI EH....Figure it out dude...
I found this book in a store that sells cheap books. It's my first time reading a Salvatore book and I really enjoyed it.It's short, light and funny but also full of action. It was a great way to be introduced to the world of Drizzt and his friends, even if it did make reference to past events.
როგორც იქნა დაიწყო ლეწვა-ჩეხვა და ძვლების ჭახუნი. უბრალოდ 13 წიგნი რო ამას ელოდები ცოტა ტეხავს, მარა ღირდა. ორკები, დვორფები, ელფები არიქა, შმარიქა.
[REVIEW TO COME LATER UPON RE-READ.]
A. Salvatore in high school, but when I tried to go back and reread the Icewind Dale trilogy recently I couldn't stand the writing, the characters were shallow, Drizzt was overbearing and endlessly too insightful and too introspective.
However, the fight is so awkwardly written all I was unable to truly picture what Salvatore was describing, beyond "elves are nimble, they fight good."Salvatore also tried to force in some relationship drama with Drizzt and Cattle-brie which felt forced, and unnecessary.
Overall, if you are looking to read a story set in the Forgotten Realms, or get familiarized with Drizzt this is where I would start.
Having never read any other of the drow books from forgotten realms meant that this book had little to offer me.
But to the author's credit I still did manage to get some enjoyment out of the book near the end and the story of human-dwarf town and its internal struggles were fun to read.
Having said that, if I had not gotten this trilogy as a gift I would not bother to continue reading but as it stands I will probably finish the trilogy at some point.
This is a standard D&D fantasy yarn.
A group of adventurers goes around and murders creatures that are not like them.
I bought this to read on an airplane and the book served its purpose.
There are plenty of stereotypes and cliches.
The dwarves all have Scottish accents and the orcs are stupid.
There are also pterippi (the plural term for winged horses).
This is a great fantasy for D&D players or fantasy fans who don't want to think to hard and want to enjoy some good swashbuckling scenes.
The book sets up some big plot points that are meant to be finished in a three-book series, so be warned.
I picked up this book just because I heard so much about Drizzt and Salvatore's stories. The story was solid, although some thoughts and phrases were a bit repetitive. I read it in something like 4 days wich is pretty fast for me, so I should say this book was kinda exciting.The biggest strange thing was that from the stuff I heard I didn't imagine Drizzt so emotional and stuff, which wasn't bad, just not what I expected.
"Bah, whaddya know aside from which drink ye're drinkin?" ..."if ye're even knowin' which drink ye're drinkin?" ... "I'm knowing!" shouted another..."So I'm drinkin' that I'm not drinkin' enough of what I'm drinkin'!""All our accomplishments in the external are diminished many times over if they do not serve to turn us inward.""Often in those moments when we think all is lost" he said "many things...priorities...become clear to us.""Your compliments roll as freely as a frozen river."
It's at this point of the adventure where it seems as if everything is in transition; either everyone got simply distracted by the orcs in finding the ancient Dwarven homeland, or the enemy goes deeper than anyone realized. And what with Drizzt at the end of it ... There is a definite cliffhanger here to the beginning of a longer tale. It's certainly closer to the beginning than the end.
I can't help it - Drizzt books are my guilty pleasure. This one was pretty good - I actually liked it much more than the first time (I read it around 2003). Pacing was fine and I liked the plot involving Mirabar. This is a promising start of a trilogy and I am really looking forward to "The Last Drow".
