https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85086.Logical_Chess_Move_By_Move
If I could live my life over again (ah, if only) I would make one simple change. I would remove all the chess and add dancing in its place. In my experience chess is not a good way to meet girls.
If you have more than one chess book, then you have the beginnings of a collection.
If you haven't got a chess book, then I can think of no better way to start a collection than this one.
But it's still a fabulous classic and you can't imagine a world in which it doesn't exist.Or, put it this way, I am genuinely jealous of people who have not read this book for the first time, because if the pleasure that is waiting for them, as long as they can make a few small allowances for the age difference
This is such a good book. Above all others I'd recommend this to people who have a bit of chess interest but think reading a book will be too hard. Having said that, you can be any standard and get something from it.
It was called a perfect model game - and here it was, in this book that I first saw it, despite having known about Rubinstein for a long time.Since the book was written decades before I was born, I wish I had seen it when I was 10.
I would have also had time to play over the games again and again.I know all the chess players here have already written love letters to this book, but I could not let that stop me from writing mine.
i like that he spent the first half saying 1.e4 was the strongest move only to change his mind to 1.d4
This is the first book that a chess player should read after learning the basics - that is, how the pieces move, basic checkmating patterns, and the tactical building blocks such as forks, pins, and skewers.
(I'd recommend reading when you have a chess board in front of you to follow along.
Don't settle for a computer unless you never play over the board in the first place.)As you follow each game, you will start to see where potential attacks come from, and you will find yourself looking for winning combinations in your own games.
The first book on chess I've read that wouldn't strictly be for beginners. Nevertheless, I've found my rating rise from somewhere around 1200 to just over 1500 in the reading of these pages. Perfect if you're the type of player who struggles to decide on a move after the first handful, and the usefulness of the main openings(e4,d4) gets consistently drilled into the reader every time a new game arises. Highly recommended to any enthusiast who wants to build a platform to be more than just a hobby player.
Outstanding book for the beginning chess player. Chernev explains every move of every game.
But Chernev's "principles" can be kind of arbitrary at times.
In some situations a pawn in front of castled king gets moved and he's like "what a terrible move, don't violate the king's safety!" and other times he's like "obviously, moving the pawn in front of castled king is right thing to do, always create opportunities" blah blah.
So basically his advice boils down to "make the right move at the right time." Thanks dude.OTOH he does hammer home some good points for beginners.
etc.It would be nice to have this as an e-book with annotated pgns, but apparently his widow has not been very receptive to publishing deals.
Here's all the PGNS sans annotations:Logical Chess Move by Move: COMPLETE
This might just be the best book for class players to read. Chernev is such an awesome chess author. His love for chess is immediately obvious, and of course, contagious.
An absolutely brilliant book. Every move is explained in details along with positional analysis.
Simply wonderful. If you ever feel like purchasing a chess book as a gift to a beginner, look no further.Quite possibly the best first book on chess. I admit.. I have not read all books on chess, but you can rest assured - this one has earned universal acclaim. It would certainly be my recommendation for the beginning player.
Very good in principle but too many old-fashioned openings.
Really quite good. The section on the kingside attack was immediately applicable to my own games, and I adored the included Capablanca games.
!
A really enjoyable chess book. Every move is explained and avoids the mundane paragraphs of chess notation. The games chosen are all interesting and have a lot of relevant teaching points.
Useful, simple and practical book! I enjoyed reading it, it changed the way I think about chess, specially in the opening phase.
I love this book. Chernev is a great teacher, and gives his lessons clearly in a pleasant, easy to read manner that just flows. Yes, there is a fair amount of repetition, because that is how many of us learn. This book is a great resource that I enjoy reading over and over again.
Would you believe me if I told you that a book that explains the thought process behind each and every move of 33 chess games was a page turner and often very funny?
I do not recommend checking the books analyses with a computer unless you have an idea of your own as to why they might be wrong, however, as by the standards of human play they are fairly accurate.For example, in one game, the author writes "And Black resigned, as there is no way to avoid checkmate via [a certain move]." I had an inkling that there had to be some way to stop it, and my computer came up with a spectacular bishop sacrifice that led to a drawish position.
Just by repeating the basic principles one already memorizes and adapts them easily and I caught myself looking at a position on the chess board in a different way.
The book is clearly for Beginners and suffers a little bit from using old example games (and I really mean old!) and allowing no exceptions to the rules.
Modern chess is a little bit different and to understand why GMs break the rules could be interesting.I have 2 complaints.
Considering that the books is written for Beginners it would have been helpful to at least outline the path or to choose a completely different game.
Immortal book on learning chess for amateurs.
Alles mag stimmen, es hat aber keine Relevanz.Dieses Buch wendet sich nicht an den starken Spieler - es ist geschrieben für Anfänger.
Natürlich ist es vielleicht etwas übertrieben, dass er unzählige Male erklärt warum e4 ein guter Zug ist, aber er besteht darauf jeden Zug zu erklären - und er tut gut daran.Im Unterschied zu dem von John Nunn geschriebenen Buch, bleibt Chernev auch dem Zielpublikum treu.
Einfach gelungenEs ist auch in einem leicht verständlichen Englisch geschrieben, so dass jeder der halbwegs gut Englisch kann, dieses Buch auch in seine Schachbuchsammlung aufnehmen sollte.
Four stars for covering with deliberation every move of thirty-three games.
Including the first three moves.
This book is really a prolonged defense of the queen's pawn opening, 1.
P-Q4, which the author has found so useful for White (who easily constrains White), but not for Black (who is bottled up).
There are plenty of best practices ironed in with italics throughout the length of the book and the author is quite happy to present them, making exception however for his hero Capablanca.
Yes, Capablanca can do no wrong.
He wins every game in the book, whichever side of 1.
Very good book. Perfect for my current level.When describing a move similar to one previously described, most books do not repeat the analysis previously given. This book purposely repeats the analysis and rationale over and over (phrased slightly differently each time) to drill the concept into the reader’s mind. I found this helpful.Makes ample use of quotations from other chess legends to corroborate the points that he is making.Does a good job of explaining the ideas behind moves (especially opening moves) in easy to understand language.
This is a great book for beginners.
I say that as a beginner myself.
I feel the analysis of whole games really gives a feeling for the development of the game, and that the move by move format is great window into the specifics.
It introduces a lot of basic strategic concepts along the way but also shows neat tactical aspects to the game, both those played as well as the unplayed ones that guided the game.
Very enjoyable.
That being said I can't much explain why I stalled out just past halfway through although I am actively seeking to improve my chess.
This book was recommended to me when I returned to the game as an adult last year (2014). It's a terrific first book because the commentator (Chernev) explains the logical thought process, or at times lack thereof, behind the moves in classic games. This book won't teach you the inner working of chess openings or endgames but it will help you understand both positional development and how to think in chess. Strongly recommended.
I loved this book. For me this filled the gap between the Masters' books (that i do not understand) talking about positions 6 moves down the line, and beginners' books that tell you how the knight moves. Chernev describes games one move at a time with some humor and thought. Granted - there is only so much to say about the initial moves, but he adds color and meaning by using example games that move in a number of different directions. Not technical - but not condescending either.
This is fantastic chess book. It goes over in great detail each move from 33 games. It helps you understand the strategies and thought processes behind the masters of the game. The only flaw I found in the book was that it had about 3 or 4 themes that it kept focusing on. Also, it was a little tedious to read thru the openings of the games and have the author tell you the same things over and over. If you like chess, this is a great book.
This is the best of the not-that-many chess books I've read. Every move in 33 games is annotated, and the explanations are clear and informative in ways that can be applied to other games. I wish there was a larger variety of openings and more of a focus on endgames, but I found this format so helpful that I'll look for that type of thing in another, similar book.
