https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60146.Behold_the_Man
This is actually one of his better written books - no small thing given that Moorcock's more serious efforts are quite something.My 2* isn't the 'not quite as crap as 1*' kind of 2*, it's taken off the Goodreads hymn sheet.
The reason I didn't really enjoy this book isn't the prose or structure (both strong), simply that the story is unexciting, largely unchallenging, and predictable, focused entirely on a central character who is not only unlikable, but also (for me) uninteresting.
Moorcock does a good job of picking apart the main character's psyche ...
Join my 3-emails-a-year newsletter #prizes..
I believe in freedom of speech and as the old saying goes, "While I don't agree with what you say, I will defend to the death your right to say it." Some of you will not be effected by this book, others will be positively thrilled with it.I am a Christian so while I adamantly defend the right of Moorcock to write this book and for it to be freely available, I think those who may be "offended" or shocked by it should know what they are picking up in advance.
(hide spoiler)]Whatever the intent of Mr. Moorcock the book will be found offensive, painful, and even blasphemous by some.
Karl Glogauer, lonely misunderstood misfit, reaches the end of his rope and volunteers to man an experimental time machine for a friend.
Glogauer goes to A.D. 28 to witness the crucifixion of Jesus.
John the Baptist is a revolutionary, Mary and Joseph's marriage isn't the way it should be, and as for Jesus...
Gloriana is one, Dancers at the End of Time is another, and Behold the Man is a third.Behold the Man tells two stories.
Moorcock guides us through the events in Glogauer's life that lead to him traveling back in time.
The other thread shows Glogauer's travels and raises questions about identity and destiny.
You know those science-fiction novels where they go back in time, and discover they've become some well-known historical character? Like Dirk Gently's Holistic Detective Agency, where the hero finds out he's become the Person from Porlock. This novel takes the idea pretty much to its logical conclusion... not sure it's possible to trump becoming Jesus Christ. It's well worth reading. Science-fiction writers are notorious for having great ideas and then blowing the execution (the Trout Complex, as it were), but this time Moorcock gets it right. I wonder if any brave director will try and film it some day?
Behold the Man (1969) originally appeared as a novella in a 1966 issue of New Worlds; later, Moorcock produced an expanded version which is the one I read.
By interpolating numerous memories and flashbacks, Moorcock tells the parallel story of Karl's troubled past in 20th century London, and tries to explain why he's willing to risk everything to meet Jesus.
A superficial anger against the Christian religion runs through the entire work, and it really spoils what could have been a great book, whether it had taken a Christian stance or not.Or maybe his wasn't really anger or bitterness, but just the same immature sense of rebellion against authority that leads a 14 years old kid to write obscene graffiti on the school walls.
(review in english below)Um conceito fabuloso - que, só por si, quase valia as 5 estrelas - e um des
3.0 to 3.5 stars. A short book, but filled with emotion and some extremely controversial subjects. I thought Moorcock handled the main character well. Good use of SF to explore issues of faith, religion and personal discovery.
This felt like a childish attempt to do what Kazantzakis and Graves did far better. I love many of Moorcock's books, but this one was hamfisted, pedantic and hopelessly adolescent in its approach to what could have been a very fascinating story. It felt less like a real literary work and more like a teenager's attempt to vent his spleen, the sort of thing you can imagine a youth scribbling furiously in his binder and then leaning back to admire with a smug, self-satisfied smirk because he believes himself (erroneously) to be the next Nietzche.
It's the 60s, man, a time of beatnik philosophy.
Karl's world takes a dramatic turn though when he finds himself at the forefront of the birth of Christianity - literally the time of the supposed saviour.
And now Karl can either to choose to fulfill a role as the saviour, or, alternatively take the story in another direction.
Will Karl play the role of saviour so that the Christian mythos remains influential throughout the ages?You'll never see the final days of Jesus in the same way again.
Controversial and ground breaking at the time, it is still regarded as a cult classic by many.
İşte insan; insanlığın alışılagelmiş inançlarını ve zayıflıklarını hristiyanlık dini üzerinden ve zamanda yolculuk metaforuyla açıklama çabasıyla yazılmış bir bilimkurgu romanı.
Baş karakterimiz olan Karl duygusal, hassas ve hayatı boyunca bu özelliklerinin acısını çekmiş, etrafı tarafından ezilmiş ve tatminsiz bir karakterdir.
Cevap bulmayı istediği sorularla çeşitli mistiklerden, bilim insanlarından ve psikanalistlerden oluşan bir arkadaş grubuna katılır ve burada tanıştığı biri sayesinde zaman yolculuğu yapabilme şansına sahip olur.
Yolculuk yaparak İsa peygamberin çarmıha gerilişini izlemek ister ama olaylar pek istediği gibi gitmez ve kendini bilinen tarihsel akışı gerçekleştirmek için feda ederken bulur.
Bu arada geçmişi ve şimdisi arasında sürekli bağlantılar kuran karakterimiz en sonunda yaşamı pahasına sorularının cevaplarına erişir.
Jungian jumps into Time Machine to prove girl wrong about Jebus.
Jungian blunders into being accepted as Jebus by denizens of the time to which he has traveled.
Jungian further blunders by trying to reenact what he knows about Jebus.
It's not as laugh-out-loud/thigh-slapping as the former, and not as intelligent and subtle as the latter, but it's a nifty way to pass an hour or two (at 124 pages, only those who try really, really hard to prolong the reading experience will find themselves spending any more time with it than that), provided you're not one of those types who take umbrage at, for instance, the suggestion that the real historical Jesus whom our time traveling Jungian backs into replacing was actually some kind of congenital hydrocephalic fetal alcohol syndrome imbecile, or that all of the cryptic sayings and parables attributed to Jesus are actually just half-baked, half-remembered scraps of folk wisdom, popular ethics and syncretic mysticism.
Ovakva ateistička priča mogla je proći u USA jedino šezdesetih. Vrlo hrabro zadiranje i "povijest" kršćanstva sa suludim krajem koji negira temelj kršćanske religije, a prikaz Isusa, ovog pravog Isusa je genijalan...
Bir başka “a tale of Christ”. 3.3 stars.Herkese iyi okumalar.
I do not know if Mr. Moorcock is of the Jewish faith but I would assume so as he tries to completely destroy the whole story of the life of Jesus and his teaching.
I am a Christian but I am very tolerant of other people’s beliefs and would never try to mock or disrespect what they believe ‘if you can’t say something nice then say nothing’.The book was written in 1969 but I found the part about the time travel machine so farfetched and it seemed as though it was was simply added as a means to get the character Karl into 28AD.
Certain people might find it offensive because it undermines the sanctity of Jesus Christ, and tangles that story up in a lot of sexual and mental health hangups.
Still, I think it's a very interesting way of looking at the story, even if I don't like the way it portrays Christianity.
The time travel aspect isn't very prominent, and I don't think it was really written as science fiction -- speculative fiction, yes, but I wouldn't call it sci-fi.
If you don't mind Moorcock playing with basics of Christianity, then you might well find it interesting.
This was a re-read of one of my favorite science fiction novels.
Moorcock's seminal time travel novel is part theological inquiry and part psychological novel.
The plot is about a man who goes back in time to discover the real Jesus.
Where this leads is part of the genius of Moorcock's tale.
It's interesting that I decided to re-read this after finishing Reza Aslan's historical book, Zealot: The Life and Times of Jesus of Nazareth since Behold the Man covers pretty much the same area except as speculative fiction.
I'm not sure if I would recommend this to anyone with deep religious feelings but, for anyone else, it's a must-read.
kind of brilliant, even though it's obviously (and actually) a much-pumped-up short story (which also feels like it was written in about two or three weeks (probably so moorcock could pay for a shitload more books to read on a ton of various esoteric subjects)).
never less than fun and often actually truly shocking, which i always find amazing-- almost never happens.
it also has a chapter which begins "The madman came stumbling into the town" which is such a great line i am now going to steal it and write a short story with it as the opener.
moorcock is always great.
This short novel is the best theological science fiction ever written.Also,it is Moorcock's finest work.One page of this masterpiece is worth more than entire LEFT BEHIND atrocity.
"Yalnız olmak için her daim bir sebep vardır."
I don't generally like Moorcock, particularly his fantasy novels, but this novella is an excellent story on at least two levels. First, it draws on the image of the Christ, both as portrayed in the gospels and as interpreted by scholarship. Here, Moorcock has done credible homework. Second, it is a fair psychological study, not only of the ostensible protagonist, a tortured modern, but also on who he becomes, namely, Jesus, the Anointed. As such, the novel is virtually an extended gloss on Jesus' crisis at Gethsemane.
A coworker/friend recently read this novella.The protagonist, Karl Glogauer, is from our current time.
In this story, Jesus and Mary are drastically unlike what is presented in Bible.
Karl Glogauer takes up the role of Jesus in the Gospels.I've read the negative reviews of the book.
Yes, Christians, and come to think of it, Muslims, might take offense at the portrayal of Jesus and Mary in this story.
But it seems to me that some of these reviewers miss the point that this novella is making.
Jedino je Jovan krstitelj (rec krstitelj u sebi ima to krst sto opet ne odgovara stanju stvari ali u sustini misli se na ritual koji na engleskom mnogo lepse i ispravnije zvuci - Baptism) je genijalno predstavljen kao revolucionar.
Glavni junak koji je dosao iz buducnosti kao sto sam rekao na sebe preuzima ulogu Hrista i radnju usmerava tako da tece prema onome kako je savremena istorija pamti.
U sustini lep nacin da se kroz SF motiv putovanja kroz vreme i pokusaja da se upozna jedna od najvaznijih istorijskih figura, ako ne i najvaznija istorijska figura, shvati da je sve laz i splet okolnosti.
Možda ovo nije priča za punih 5 zvjezdica, ali meni je trenutno dobro sjela: jedna varijanta priče o Isusu kao povijesnoj osobi, začinjena putovanjem kroz vrijeme i raspravom koju vode glavni lik i njegova cura na temu religija vs znanost. Čitao sam prijevod iz Nebula 1.
One of Moorcock's earlier works, I picked this novel up primarily because of its brevity (I was looking for a quick read) and, almost just as importantly, its intriguing premise.Behold the Man is all about Karl Glogauer's life-long search for God and Christ, and his sense of disconnection from the rest of the world.
The flashbacks to Glogauer's past are the buildup to what finally drives him to travel back in time in the first place.
His search for Christ completely consumes him, and lo and behold, the man suddenly finds himself stranded in a strange land with the messiah nowhere to be found.Are you interested yet?
Karl is lost, has spent his life trying to find out something, who he is, what he believes, and it this dissatisfaction that leads him to take this journey.The time travel machine breaks, leaving him trapped at the beginning of the Judeo - Christian period.
Anyway, I enjoyed the journey with Karl very much.
The book is a thoughtful exploration of his activities and his thoughts and his interactions with the people around him.The journey takes him to an ending he didn't expect but that he accepts as necessary.
At the same time he does this while skating wildly on the edge of great blasphemy, black humor, everyday dark psychology in a compact blend of parable and classic sci-fi--though turning both on their head by placing the whole mix in a room full of mirrors via time travel.
Again, my kind of sci-fi, big concepts both of darkness and of light, complex resonance that hangs around your mind long after you set it down and a yarn good enough for both chuckles, tears and striking the "Thinking Man" pose after reading.
Before I read this I was told the actual plot line and concept of the book and it made me jump for a copy.
But please jump for a copy.
"'Why do I destroy everything I love?' 'Oh, God!
Don't give me that maudlin teenage stuff, Karl, please!'"Well, quite.There's nothing wrong with a bit of deliberate provocation but this is as crude as drawing cocks on paintings.
Having the time traveller in this story fuck an adulterous Mary while her disabled son Jesus looks on is the kind of thing that only a moody fourteen year old could mistake for depth, especially if the text is peppered with quotes from Milton and the Bible and anguished bedtime discussions about Jung.It's not all bad, though.
Let the reader do the work.
4,5/5GR'ye göre 200.kitabım yihuuuuuuu ve bu yıl okuduğum ilk özgün kitap heralde.Bunu da çoğulukla Moorcock'ın (en azından o zamanlar için) cesur bir konuyu seçmesinden kaynaklandığını düşünüyorum. Phoenix yayınevi çevirisi de çok güzel, üstüne düştükleri belli oluyor; ayrıca beni geç de olsa Can ABANAZIR ile tanıştırdıkları için kendilerine teşekkürü borç bilirim. Ek olarak yazarın gerek Türkiye baskısı için yazdığı önsöz gerekse de kitapta normalde bulunan sonsözüyle ve daha nice bilgilendirmelerle kitap hakkaten dolu dolu. Tek eksiği 180 sayfa olması; sanki artırılabilir,daha detaylandırılabilirdi gibi geldi, tadı damağımda kaldı biraz.
Bir müddətdir ki, oxumaqdan uzaq düşmüş biri üçün əsl dərman oldu. Bir dəfə, bir dəfə və daha bir dəfə oxunması zövq verəcək əla kitab idi. Moorcock bu il üçün könlümdə ilk 5liyə girən yazarlardan oldu.
Zaten dini reddeden bir bakış acısı var fakat her dini ele almıyor; zaten önemli olan da ana fikri.Kitap boyunca Karl'ın bir inanca sıkıca tutunduğunu ve bu uğurda da tarihte yer alan, ama zaman yolculuğunda sadece mit olduğunu anladığı bir olayı gerçekleştirmesini okudum.
Yazarın kurduğu ve yönettiği bir kurguya göre de önemli olan bu "fikir"."Isa fikri ise gerçekliğinden önceydi.""Hristiyanlık düşüncesi!Hristiyanlık Isa'dan asırlar önceki düşünceler sirkülasyonu için bir vasıtaydı."Yazım tarzını sevmedim, aslında oldukça basit fakat ben sıkıldım ve sanki bir şeyler kaçırıyormuşum, bir şeylerden bihabermişim gibi hissettim (muhtemelen din konusundaki tarihi bilgisizlik olabilir).Cinselliğin ne amaçla kullanıldığını bilmiyordum ve bunu kitabın incelemesini okuyana kadar da fark edemedim.
