https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30383.Best_Kept_Secrets
Twenty-five years before, her mother had died a scandalous death. Alex believed one of three powerful men had murdered her. Each was charming; each was a suspect. And each tried to shield her from his sins and secrets. But only one of them could ignite a desire as passionate as her need for the truth...  "You're in a surly mood this morning. Rough night?""Yeah. I got laid, but it wasn't very good." This guy is a bit of a pig, an alpha male, but, who cares? Not me. I am comfortable enough with
Twenty-five years before, her mother had died a scandalous death.
This guy is a bit of a pig, an alpha male, but, who cares?
I had two suspects pegged and it was one of them but until she told us, I really did not know.
Yeah, the age difference was a bit too much and he had known her mother before she was born.
I just love to see a guy like this brought to his knees by a good woman - there's a country song in there somewhere.
SB can build up the sexual tension like no-one I know.
Pero le dejo las 4 porque creo que es una lectura muy recomendable.Eso sí, es una muy buena novela de suspense...
aunque algunas frases las acierta de pleno pero le falta toda la ternura- que ella tampoco me ha gustado, no he terminado de conocerla del todoPero es una lectura MUY recomendable si buscáis un buen suspense americanizadoLo cierto es que me ha enganchado muchísimo y hay que tener también en cuenta que no es una novela de las de ahora, y eso se nota, sobre todo en cierto tema
This is the way Alex was supposed to come out as, but there were too many times that she was so wishy washy that it was hard to like her.Then there were the 3 men, all of them in love with Selena, Alex's dead mother.
For some reason when Alex did hook up with one of these men it seemed slightly incestuous.
I also find it hard to believe that while she was investigating all of the men, not knowing which one killed her mother, she became friends with them, and found something to admire in them.
Sandra Brown does it again!! Yay!! For once I immediately guessed "who done it" as soon as the character was introduced. I was inwardly high fiving myself. Lol. You gotta love the fashion, mentality and technology of the 80's!! (Insert sigh) MEMORIES!!!!

From the blurb:Alexandra Gaither was a savvy, beautiful attorney who finally had the power to get what she wanted -- justice…Note to myself:Alexandra is also the most overrated, phoniest, self-serving attorney I have read.Twenty-five years before, her mother had died a scandalous death.
Alex believed one of three powerful men had murdered her.
Each was charming; each was a suspect.
Note to myself:This book is ~25 years old, loaded with sexisim.The romance is operated in forbidden territory making me uneasy, eyes-roll, shake my head,...Despite the novel contains many elements I dislike, Brown delivers an absolute page-turner.
This book is twisted in more than one way:1.)The protagonist, Alex, gets involved in sexual relationship with a man who 18 years older, dated her mother, and was almost her step father. It gave the story an incestuous vibe. 2.)If you pay attention to the "who was where" of the book you can solve it right away.3.)I know this book was written in the 80's but the "ball busting career woman vs. house wife theme was ridiculous.
Alex needs to watch her back, as she has no friends in this town, and some people would like nothing better than for her to go the way of her mother.I normally like Brown's books, they are usually a nice contemporary mystery novel, usually with some romance thrown in, however, this book is not a favorite of mine.
I don't know about others who have read the book, but i definitely had thoughts that one of the main male characters could have been her father and to have that attraction between them, just felt wrong.
Ick. The age difference between the main characters didn't bother me at all.
The ick comes from the fact that the hero was her mother's high school sweetheart.
The 2 possible romantic leads for the heroine were both in love with her mother while she was pregnant with the heroine.
The main hero even flash backed to making out with the mother.
The other one would mention in one sentence how he had wanted to be her stepfather and then in another how he wanted her as a lover.
I knew who the real killer was about half-way through the book.Yuk.
It was so awesomely bad.
I tried three times this week to describe the plot to other lawyers.
So. Alex goes to law school to become a prosecutor to investigate her mother's murder.
She begins the investigation in THE MOST DRAMATIC 10 PAGES OF MY LIFE.
Each time I was wrong.
I LOLed a few times (the book isn't technically funny, but neither is GOT and I giggle at that train wreck too).
I tip my hat to this bastion of badness.
Baca ulang and tetep terasa seruuuuuu.... And herannya lagi, sekali baca suspense-nya SB, rasanya jadi kecanduan, trus pengin maraton baca buku2 suspensenya yg lain.Mmmm...perbedaan usia yg lumayan (ato sangat?) jauh antara Alex and Reede, lagi2 mengingatkanku akan Rhett Butler and Scarlett O'Hara-nya Gone With The Wind. Seingatku, si Rhett malah lebih tua sedikit dari ibunya Scarlett (kalo gak salah yaaaaaa).Gak masalah ah kalo hero-nya jauh lebih tua, asal mereka sangat sangat charming seperti Reede Lambert atau Rhett Butler.*review gak penting*
I picked this out to listen to on a car trip with my family. It was a bit cheesy and we had to keep fast forwarding through the romantic parts because our kids were in the car and while they had movies to watch sometimes they were listening. Quite a few sex scenes. I wouldn't recommend it and don't plan on reading Sandra Brown again.
La reseña en el blog http://alacamaconunlibro.blogspot.com...
buku paling lambat dari Sandra Brown sejauh ini huhhTapi untuk cerita tetep lumayan
***4.5 Stars****Thanks Jas, for introducing me to Sandra Brown's world.
I got this book from my oldest brothers wife. It wasn't too bad of a book. It is a older book of Sandra Browns. The only part I didn't like about it is that some of the parts in it were a bit descriptive. It is made for the 18 and over crowd for sure.
And why, (except that this is a romance) does this smart lawyer prosecutor let these men, all of whom are suspects in her mind, put their hands on her?
I guess, an unprofessional professional who has to be set up for the romance which we all expect from a Sandra Brown.
The baby grows up to be the smart unprofessional lawyer prosecutor.
But why does Sandra Brown have her male love interests say such cruel things to the woman that they are not supposed to be having a relationship with?
Finally, I didn't think I would get through this book!!! My mind just seemed to wander, it wasn't an awful book, it just couldn't pull me in and keep my attention. I still don't understand why anyone would want to date their mothers boyfriend from high school. Especially since Alex is investigating her murder and he, his best friend, and an older man are all suspects of a 25 year old murder.
Two-haiku review:She's prosecutorRe-opening old murderOf her own motherNever could happenOffensive stereotypesCan't recommend it
Now Alex believed one of three powerful men had murdered her--her former lover, his best friend, or the father figure for the both of them.
Each one of them was a charming suspect, who tried to shield her from his sinful secrets; but only one of them could ignite a desire in her, like how she's passionate for the need for the truth.
Like her mother, she sparked controversy and excitement in a small Texas town, while she slowly unraveled the truth behind her mother's death, she would risk anything to know about their best kept secrets.
(view spoiler)[What if the sexist man in town murdered your mom? Doesn't make him any less sexy! And of course he didn't do it; he's the main love interest in a Sandra Brown novel, and you while you have to expect a certain amount of sleaze in boyfriend's backstory, we know he'll turn out to be the hero. (hide spoiler)]This short novel is a romp, less of a whodunnit than a when-will-they-do-IT. Hero is a jerk with a certain offbeat charm. There's not much meat here, but it's a tasty snack for Sa
(view spoiler)[What if the sexist man in town murdered your mom?
And of course he didn't do it; he's the main love interest in a Sandra Brown novel, and you while you have to expect a certain amount of sleaze in boyfriend's backstory, we know he'll turn out to be the hero.
(hide spoiler)]This short novel is a romp, less of a whodunnit than a when-will-they-do-IT.
Hero is a jerk with a certain offbeat charm.
There's not much meat here, but it's a tasty snack for Sandra Brown fans who've exhausted her newer stuff and are digging into the archives.
My favorite contemporary romantic suspense novel. I like a lot of Brown's books (Exclusive, Mirror Image), but this is my favorite, the one I think is most romantic. The heroine is trying to find out who killed her mother shortly after the heroine was born, and one of her prime suspects (yes, the hero is a good bit older than the heroine--at least 17 years or so) happens to be the sexiest man she's ever met.
I think this is one of her older books - was a little troubled by the whole relationship thing. Not because of the age but because he loved her mother first. Creepy
The only reason I kept reading was because I wanted to find out who killed Celina.
The story of a fired up, highly motivated prosecutor coming to town to reevaluate her mother's 25 year old murder is really interesting but the love interests seem so unrealistic to me.
The only men she's attracted to in the small town also happen to be her prime suspects and almost her step-fathers?
As a reader I am often cheering for the relationship to work but in this book I was constantly rolling my eyes and skipping sections of the book to avoid reading about the romances.
The plot is more or less good. But the love story was a little bit disturbing...
4.5 stars
Look, I want to rate this something other than "EH," but I cannot. It's an ok story, but omg, Sandra! Stop with the random COCK or bulge references.Is this 1970s porn or a mystery, for fuck's sake?
i give it 4.5 stars. as always sb did not disappoint!
They have weird shit like that.However, worse than the incestuous feeling I got from Alex's desire for Reede was Alex's character.
I love SB's books but this one was downright nasty.At first, I thought the reviews mentioning the 3 men's feelings towards Celina (Alex's mother) were inaccurate and misleading, and I was pleased that I did not let those reviews stop me from reading the book.
I was feeling rather relieved - until the last lap of the book - to find out that neither Junior nor Reede had slept with Celina and that Angus, Junior's Dad, regarded Alex like a daughter, his son's childhood friend.
Alex lost her mother, Celina when she was only two months old to a vicious murder.
She believes it is one of three men, Angus Minton, Junior Minton, or Reede Lambert.
Junior and Reede were best friends with Celina twenty five years ago growing up.
Reede always loved Celina since he was in grade school and always felt the need to protect her.
Junior too, loved Celina.
But did Reede or Junior really have the nerve to kill Celina?Could one of her mother's best friends, or Junior's father be responsible for that tragic evening that ended a young woman's life 25 years ago?
