https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/905382.Anne_Frank
قبل 85 عاما، ولدت آن فرانك، الفتاة اليهودية التي أصبحت مذكراتها أبلغ الشهادات ضد الممارسات النازية إدانة وتأثيراً.في عام 1942 وبعد إحتلال الألمان لأمستردام بدأ النازيون حملة منظمة لإعتقال اليهود بهدف إرسالهم إلى معسكرات التعذيب.
توفيت أختها وأمها هناك أيضاً، أما والدها أوتو فرانك فقد نجا من المعسكر وعاد إلى أمستردام حيث قام بنشر مذكرات ابنته وإطلاق مؤسسة آن فرانك.اليوم يعد المنزل الذي اختبأت فيه آن وعائلتها أحد المزارات السياحية التي يزورها آلاف السياح يوميا.كتبت في دفتر الزوار بعد أن انتهيت من جولتي في منزل آن فرانك: لا تزال آن فرانك بعد 85 عاما من وفاتها تموت يوميا في غزة ..
So rich in both family and social history, during the course of my reading, I started to feel as though I myself was being systematically stripped of personal freedoms that I never gave a second thought to, like riding a bike to work/school or meeting a friend for coffee, all the while in my heart hoping that this would be the extent of the Fuhrer's nonsensical whims.Dread starts setting in when Otto moves his family to Amsterdam from Frankfurt, and many members of the extended family start seeking refuge in neighboring countries years before Hitler officially begins his greedy conquest.
I think that what makes "The Annex Dwellers'" story so compelling (especially when I read Anne's diary for the first time as a 13-year-old) was just how close they all came to surviving--a matter of weeks or a couple of days/hours, in some cases, before the camps were liberated.
Her name invokes humanity, tolerance, human rights, and democracy; her image is the epitome of optimism and the will to live.' Upon her initial reading of Anne's diary, Muller had many questions which were left unanswered; this inspired her to research and write Anne Frank: The Biography.
When writing about Anne and Margot's friends in Amsterdam, Muller says: 'The greatest delight of all was Mr. Frank.
In the long days of loneliness and despair and of conflict not only with her housemates but also and primarily with herself, Kitty and the diary became her closest confidants.'Muller's prose style makes Anne Frank: The Biography a very easy book to read; it is intelligent and measured, not to mention packed with detail, but it still feels readily accessible.
Ik had heel wat anders verwacht toen ik deze biografie opensloeg.Ik dacht het leven van Anne Frank weer meer in beeld te krijgen.
De schrijfster licht ook meer haar vader en moeder uit, hun familie, hun leven en hun bedrijven, wat ermee gebeurde en wat maakte dat ze een aantal harde keuzes maakte.
Ik kreeg bewondering voor deze mensen die hun uiterste best hebben gedaan om Anne en haar zus Margot eigenlijk pas in het onderduik adres te hebben laten merken wat er aan de hand was maar vooral wat voor invloed dat op hun leven had.
Though the book starts with the arrest of those in hiding, at the end Muller traces where each person was transferred to and writes what is known of their final days.Includes an index in the back that gives short bio details of the people Anne mentioned in her diary.
I really appreciate that Muller uses everyone's real names (unless they requested anonymity); it brings the Diary back to Reality.I like how Muller keeps an objective view on each and every person mentioned, and can even step back and keep Anne herself in perspective.
Muller also includes information about the rest of Anne’s immediate and extended family and provides additional details about what life was like once the Franks went into hiding and the many risks Jan and Miep Gies took to supply them with what was necessary for their survival.
Although we know from the outset that Anne’s story has a brutally tragic ending, it’s even more difficult to read knowing that Bergen-Belsen was the first of the German death camps to be liberated by the British who arrived within two weeks of Anne’s death.
On the same page one reads about things said or occurring in 1942 and 1944, for example.I was interested in the way Anne expresses typical teenaged angst and coming of age behaviors even though in such horrific and even blizzare circumstances.
Her writings (not just her diary) leads us to believe that she might have been a major force in writing, had she survived.
At the end of the book all Anne's family members and friends are listed with their own mini stories of survival or demise.
Important reading for our time lest we ever begin to forget.
This book gives a great deal of information about the family and friends and what happened to all of them after the war. It's very thorough and detailed. There is another one written by one of their family friends that I think would also be an interesting perspective. The writing was engaging and held my interest. I liked how the author interspersed Anne's writings throughout. One of the reasons that I enjoyed reading this is that we'll be staying very near to the Anne Frank Museum for a few days quite soon.
Review coming soon.
It discusses everyday issues, including Anne's crush on a boy living with her.
This book is suitable for upper KS2 children as it discusses WW2 and the faith of Jewish people at the time.
Anne Frank allows everyone to see into her everyday life in hiding.
Children may find the book upsetting as it is a harrowing story of an awful time in the history of the world.
The story of Anne Frank is known all over the world and is very relevant when studying WW2.
By the end of the book, the reader does not know the faith of Anne Frank or her family.
I have read several books on Anne, including a couple of different biographies.
I learned many things about Anne that were only alluded to in other things I have read.
Sometimes she is a spoiled little girl, and at other times, she is a young woman who has insights that few teenagers would have.
Additional information is included in this book also, information about her father's business (which frankly left me confused, to be honest!), relevant historical information, and insights into her extended family.
remember and pray that it doesn't happen again
Outstanding book! I would definitely recommend this one. Questions still remain to this day on who betrayed the residents of the secret annex.
In the summer of 1942, she went into hiding, along with her immediate family, to avoid being deported to a Nazi concentration camp.
Melissa Müller has written Anne's biography.I found this biography most interesting.
Not only does it contain many of Anne Frank's diary entries, it also expands upon the details of her life, friends, family and those who helped the Frank family while in hiding.
It also provides a detailed account of what became of those most closely associated with Anne following World War II.I first read "The Diary of Anne Frank" as a young girl and have reread it several times since.
Melissa Muller does an incredible job of fleshing out Anne's diary with writings, photos, and historical records from the time.One of the things that always saddens me the most about Anne Frank is how close the family came to survival.
Whereas previous books i have read have been slightly critical of Otto Frank for not getting his family out of Holland before the war started, Muller makes it clear that Otto tried to get his family to another country, to Switzerland, South America or the US, but was thwarted on all sides by cumbersome Visa requirements and financial restrictions.
Heartbreaking, yet filled with hope because of the great risk so many people took in helping hide the Frank family.
It was a reminder that although the world is filled with great evil, it is also filled with great kindness and compassion.Melissa Muller did an excellent job of portraying Ann as a real teenager, and not as the Jewish martyr that so many authors tend to do.
The real hero of this biography was Otto Frank; Ann's father.
Ms. Muller helped explain how it was able to happen.A well researched, thoughful and honest tribute to Ann Frank and her family.
Muller wrote a good bio of Anne, with a few reservations.
This one does a more honest job on Anne's personailty.
Anne was spoiled, but not simply for being the youngest.
They were just very fortunate that no one, especially Anne, did have any serious illnesses while in hiding.
However, the book felt rather remote and not as though the author had emotionally connected with the group as people.
She did give Edith a more sympathetic portrayal than Anne did.
I did like the encyclopedia like summary at the end of what came of all the people mentioned in the book.
Anne Frank: The Biography is a revised copy of Melissa Müller’s previous work and one well worth reading. Müller, through further research and documents previously unavailable to her, has allowed Müller to show the world a far more in-depth look at Anne Frank through beautiful, thought provoking prose, adding more depth and breadth of information than in the previous version and for those who have read about Anne Frank and think they have heard it all, I highly recommend Anne Frank: The Biography.
I just finished reading the updated version of this book, published in 2013. Additional material has been added, given the reader a deeper understanding of Anne's family, going back a few generations. A must read for those who appreciate the important of reading Holocaust literature.
Such a nice book!!!
Read this one (in English) long ago. This is one of those that I think all should read...up close and personal and knowing history's fate for her made a dent in my soul.
Anne Frank: The BiographyMelissa MullerNonfiction256 pagesThe first biography of the girl whose fate has touched the lives of millions was a great book.
For people all over the world, Anne Frank, the vivacious, intelligent Jewish girl with a crooked smile and huge dark eyes, has become the "human face of the Holocaust." Her diary of twenty-five months in hiding, a precious record of her struggle to keep hope alive through the darkest days of this century, has touched the hearts of millions.
This book was overall boring especially because I just read a book about Anne Frank.
Anne Frank is a fun person to learn about its just that I just read her diary.
Especially in light of World War II’s utterly incomprehensible and brutal nature, it’s almost impossible for most people to contemplate the individual personality and uniqueness of a young girl in the midst of so much chaos.But Müller’s portrayal of Anne Frank and accompanying narrative challenge readers to consider Anne as a whole, complex and ever-changing human being rather than a simplified symbol of survival and perseverance.
This biography prompts not only an inner exploration of the human capacity for good and evil, as all war accounts do, but also a contemplation of more basic concepts; finding and outgrowing friends, living with and learning to love a complex family, growing up in and contending with a world full of seemingly endless contradictions.
The book flowed very nicely, as opposed to the series of journal entries by Anne Frank, herself, that were a lot more challenging to follow.
The author did an excellent job of writing the events that occurred in story almost identically to the sequence they were written in Anne Frank’s diary entries.
The author’s main purpose was to educate readers about the holocaust and came across it in a very effective way: by telling the well-known story of Anne Frank.
The book was very easy to read because the author was telling a story, whereas, Anne Frank was illustrating a personal experience.
So much more than just the Anne Frank narrative, Müller's updated biography tells a broad story not just limited to the Franks, although this family and the other residents of the Secret Annex are the focal point.
It also encompasses the events, policies, and mania of Nazi Germany and occupied Europe that ultimately resulted in the Holocaust.
Millions have read Anne's diary; the biography provides a heartbreaking and poignant depth both to her life and to the human toll of the Holocaust as a whole.I couldn't recommend this book more seriously.
For those who wish to delve further into Anne's life and family, I found my understanding to be greatly enriched.
Anne Frank a book based on a true story during World War 2.
As you know the book was based on a Jewish family trying to survive until the Americans came to save them from torment.
The Frank Family consisted of both parents, Anne, and her older sister.
So when the other family finally comes the son of that family fell in love with Anne and stayed with her until they were found by the Nazi troops and put into concintreation camps.
Unfortunely Anne died from starvation just a little while before the Americans died.
Won this in a librarything giveaway. Tone is slightly mawkish at times and veers every now and then into hagiography. Little analysis or insight. If you're interested in Anne Frank, read her diary; if you're interested in the Holocaust or Jewish history during the war, read any book about it at random and it'll likely be better.
Una storia unica , che muove alla riflessione.VOTO: 7
Interesting to see the maturity process described in a journal. The story combines perfectly the adolescent love with fear of war, expressing feelings and conflict with the parents. It is a great aha moment on making a retrospective of our mindset as adolescents. Unfortunately this is such a sad story, I am convinced Anne would have been a great writer also as a mature person.
I cannot help but sometimes ask myself of hypothetical question like, "What would.happen if Anne Frank survived the war?".I fell in love with the character of Anne Frank because she is the embodiment of a woman I longed for.
What Anne Frank reveals in her diary is how the Nazi shook her emotional being during their hiding is sad but Müller's descriptive account on the atrocities of the Nazi subject their Jew prisoners is at some extent hprrifying and extremely nauseating.
