https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/87526.Confessions_of_a_Video_Vixen

The book was open on the counter and the slacker had a goofy, remote smile on his face, his eyes had drifted off in daydreams, no doubt he was engrossed in a lurid episode, chopping it up with Karrine.
Without warning, the manager shut the book on him--SLAM!--not just to startle him but to reveal the cover for all to see: a provocative-looking Karrine Steffans, full-blown, legs gaping.
Now, I believe Fabio is a ridiculous caricature as well, but I understand why he is idolized by lonely women who haunt the romance aisles at Target.
Mindlessly entertaining if reading about a floozy sleeping her way to the top of the bottom amuses you.
If you dont read books often (im only assumming based of her style of writing) you shouldnt write.
All she did was brag about all the celebs she slept with, and how they wives were at home knowing they were with her.
When in reality the only ones that have gained my sympathy is not Karrine or the celebs, but their wives who had to not only relive it but have it publicized and be humiliated because she's a washed up groupie who needed to find another way to make money, via this book.
I went into this book genuinely, seriously wanting to love Superhead.
Choice parts of the book: -the first sex scene with Ja Rule is incredibly hilarious, because Superhead/Karrine Steffans is a terrible writer.
-When Diddy gets really high and paranoid and warns Xzibit about Superhead, "she'll have you on video with your fingers in your booty." -When she leaves her infant son in his car seat on the ground in her abusive ex-husband's parking lot and moves to LA; all of this takes place right after the husband beat her so badly that she bled all over the baby.
All of the events are oddly dated, like, "On February 16, 2000, I slept with so-and-so." I felt like I was reading a low-budget blog.Jesus, this book is terrible.
Damn she a HO
Hands-down this is the worst "book" in existence and I include such self-published treasures as BIRTH CONTROL IS SINFUL IN THE CHRISTIAN MARRIAGES and also ROBBING GOD OF PRIESTHOOD CHILDREN!!in that statement.The "author", best known as that chick who sued Bill Maher for palimony,' recounts in detail all the famous rappers and sports figures she's fellated.
and that's the entire book.
C'mon, I'm not that old?!?!) "forced" her to perform oral sex on him until her nose bled on numerous occasions, then my friend, this is the book for you!ETA: It was Kool G Rap not Big Daddy Kane .
It was my weakness for celebrity gossip that led me to pick up this book, and the book delivered plenty of gossip.
For that, it was a fun diversion.
But for all the drama and action Steffans describes, the writing is humorless and unexciting.
I'm not at all convinced she has actually learned the lessons she claims to want to teach the rap video-girl wannabes that pick up her book.
Not to sound stodgy, but she spends the whole book glorifying the people in her world that perpetrated some pretty disgusting objectification and took advantage of her left and right.
I couldn't put it down.The book itself is horribly written - from the poor sentencing and paragraphing it was almost hard to believe the book was published this way, but i understand that the story was too juicy and scandalous to pass up.Anyway i believe her - as naive as that sounds i believe everything that she wrote.
I knew of her but i feel like i understand her and others like her more now.
No..No..and No...  I honestly feel embarrassed to even admit that I attempted this book. Let me explain why I did. It was a free audiobook. When things are free, passed along, given as a gift or loaned we're more prone to try things we may not normally try. Things that we are not familiar with. Things that are not normally in our wheelhouse, so to speak. How many times have we all been in the grocery store and been offered that free sample of some tidbit that you normally wouldn't think twice
When things are free, passed along, given as a gift or loaned we're more prone to try things we may not normally try.
How many times have we all been in the grocery store and been offered that free sample of some tidbit that you normally wouldn't think twice about putting into your cart, let alone into your greedy mouth for a taste.
This book reads like it was written by an elementary school student who is writing a fanciful report.
Or maybe it was the bad writing and the narcissistic undertone that kept me from caring at all about this woman's story.
If Karrine decided that she wanted to write a book as a cautionary tale to young women and girls, then she should do it selflessly, fully aware that she would not be placed on a pedestal for this act.The book is inconsistent in several places.
How would he have been able to do that if he didn't even have access to her real name????As a cautionary tale, I'm afraid this book fails woefully.
By naming names, she glamourizes her experiences, making her contacts of more interest than her actual tale.As a tell-all dish, its spot on.
I felt bad for her son and how he must feel about his mother right now...I don't think she has changed much as I look at the other books she has pushed out to solitify her as a "superhead" or the ultimate bad girl in the entertainment industry...it was a sad read.
The book was not a good read and she shouldve had someone else narrate it...she was not effective in getting the so-called message across!!
I focus on this so much because, let's face it, she may claim this book is her story and a cautionary tale and all, but she gives way too much of the wrong kinds of detail for it not to also be a celebrity tell-all.
When she fails to adequately show that personal growth and self-reflection, the shallow accountings of her quick affairs seem more tell-all, less memoir, and certainly not cautionary tale....Re-reading what I just wrote, it strikes me that one of this book's biggest problems really isn't the sex per se.
Karine Steffans writes a tell all to warn girls of how easy it is to be corrupted and to have self confidence to make something of yourself and tries to discourage them from doing things she did but then gloats about how rewarding some of the experiences were and what they have gotten her and how successful it made her because of it and she makes it seem like it is ok.I know it is her memoir but she writes melodramatically almost like she is a college student trying to show off her intelligence to a professor she over does it using big words way too much for this kind of book and stories.I don’t fault her for telling her life story and feel sorry for the abuse she has suffered but if she wants to send a message there could have sermonized a little more plus certain things she thinks are romantic seem more to be her being taken advantage of more or just wrong Like the Jay-Z story or the Irv gotti story.
As a young wife and mother, she eventually just drops her baby off with his dad so that she can chase pipe dreams and another man.
With that she takes the baby back with her and pretty much leaves him at the mercy of babysitters, while she spends long nights and days again chasing a dream.
The book is basically a tell-all and the writer drops the names of the many celebrities that she has encountered.
I just hope that when this young lady reads the pages of her own book that she will be able to take a look in the mirror one day and own up to the choices she has made.
I enjoyed this book, I felt for her as a child.
However, understanding her, and her past background forced her to do what she had to do to live.
She did not know any better..
(Not to menton she was a child during all of this) As she slept with these well known men, they are just a guity as she is.
If your going to judge her, judge the many men who helped her live the life she lived.
Her own mother running into the arms of different men.
Its never too late to better yourself.
I gave this book five stars.
After reading these confessions, I will never judge anyone who follows in her footsteps. Everyone has a story to tell and most times its not so neat.Looking at some of these reviews, it makes me sick that someone would say some vile and nasty things about a human being who had a rough life. Yizette is no longer. You grow up and learn. Make mistakes, correct yourself and move on. Ms. Karrine drops huge names and doesnt give a fuck about the consequences. You can't censor someones life because you're "famous". Don't let anyone bring you down girl!
Trash-flavored trash!Highly disturbing. Horribly entertaining.
Wake Up!In this no holds barred memoir, Karrine Steffans shares with readers the intimate moments of her life.
There is physical abuse, rape and drugs, but through it all, Steffans does not appear to have learned any valuable lessons.
She often uses the term "making love" in reference to her rendezvous when we all know that making love is the furthest thing being committed.
I doubt there was even any "making like." Looking back on her life as she penned this memoir, she should be able to distinguish the difference, but apparently she does not or cannot.
First of all, Steffans tries to identify herself as a "video vixen" but then reveals in the book that most women in music videos are actually professional models and have little to do with the hip hop social scene.
Steffans tries to make it sound like she had relationships with a lot of famous hip hop stars and athletes but when she gets down to the details she mainly slept with them, sometimes in exchange for financial support.
She says this book is a cautionary tale but it comes off more like she's bragging, which she has no reason to because every man in this book just uses her and dumps her.
Is it possible to give a book 0 stars?
Terrible, terrible, terrible.
Complete trash.
But then again, I guess it could be said against me that I did pick it up and read the whole thing.
Okay, I'm a sucker for a kiss-and-tell, but this book had way too much info that actually made me cringe and feel sorry for some of the guys that got involved with Vixen.
She tried to justify being so promiscuous, but none of it made any sense, so it was really hard to see her in any good light.
Did I mention she was known as Superhead?
Not a name I'd be proud to have known publicly.
This was a complete waste of paper and I am glad that I did not purchase this book (library).
This was written by a self serving, drugged out, and Heaven help me I don't like to use the word, whoring gold digger.
She allowed herself to be sexually used by anyone with money and then when the men ran out, she wrote a tell all.
It just means you have a hypoactive gag reflex.
Karrine is what my Grandmother would call "a nasty, nasty thing".
I hope they all wore a condom and I feel sorry for her son.
Look, I read this book when it came out because I'm a woman and a fan of hip hop.
I felt empathy for this woman and I bought the second book.
It suddenly sank in that this woman who wants to be respected in the literary world is a plain and simple ho.
I notice she's been getting a lot of sympathy for her How to Make Love to a Martian book.
At least when she did Confessions, she did something considered trail-blazing in hip hop at that time.
And to read in an interview that she likens herself Ernest Hemingway and Howard Hughes warrants even less respect.
I never want to hear "the age old adage" ever again. Her story is less compelling than she thinks it is and she cannot write a lick.
She was a super freak!!!!!!!!
She has lied about countless pregnancies, lied about having a daughter so she could get money out of people, and recently said an abortion she had was a miscarriage.
She recently blocked me on Instagram for calling her out on a lie - I saw her steal a picture from Reginae Carter (Lil Wayne's teenage daughter) on stage with him at a concert.
As a survivor of rape myself, I cried my eyes out the first time I read this book.
In her book about Lil Wayne, she claims she was pregnant with his child & aborted it so she wouldn't have to stay home and mother it.
I didn't love it because it didn't tell me anything I didn't already know, and I didn't hate it because I was expecting a cheap, sleazy, interesting read that wasn't going to challenge me or make me see the world differently.
But, after reading the book, I don't think she did anyone too wrong.
I didn't have to read Karrine's book to know how it was going down, most of them talk about it outright in their music.
That is the first thing that made me want to read this book, because I love the truth, and is book had lots of it.There was one area of the book that really got my attention.
It was when the main character Yizette or also known as Super Head, at the age of 13 he and her friend went to the mall.
My favorite character in this book is ice cube.
My least favorite person in this book is Super Head the main character.
Getting the sordid details of her life amidst name dropping, club hopping and designer label frenzy could meet teen developmental assets as an example of how NOT to gain positive adult role models, abstain from sex and drugs, and develop positive self-identity.More information about how Steffan extricated herself from this mess of a life (whether through sheer dumb luck, God or therapy) would be a redeeming quality.
I normally don't read this type of thing but my mother's friend's daughter said it was good so I thought I'd give it a shot.
I read some of the reviews given on here for the book before i read it, and from the reviews alone, I wasn't holding out high hopes for it.
I don't think some of the complaints given on why the book was so bad were completely warranted.
In all, I don't think the book was that bad.
I think that some of the bad reviews given for this book were done so because of her actions described in the book, and not because of the actual book.
