https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5356665-saintly-sinner-pavitra-paapi
I have read the orginal Punjabi version, and It was my first Punjabi novel ( read that is). I enjoyed it, though I think there are better writers
This is a sad tale of "Kedar" who strives to do the right thing,but karma just won't let his off that easy.
When i finished this book,its make me cry....Nanak Singh one of my favourite writer.
The way he has weaved the character of theWatchmaker, and the way he has tried to portray the emotions of a manorphaned and alone at too young an age.The second most important character in this book Veena, the adolescentdaughter of Pannalal, who has taken a prime spot in the heart of thisyoung man, and who impresses the reader with her simple yet elegantpoise, is a beauty everyone would praise for.
Coming so close to replace the original motherhe has lost a few years ago.The story is gripping from the start, and not a single word is wastedcarrying the unwanted frills other emo-writers would've invested upon.Its plain, its easy, its smooth.
good book
I don't know about my brother but now we all (my mum, dad and sis) read this fantastic book.
I am glad I read it in Punjabi (my mothertongue) and it made more impact on me.
Kidar was really a saintly sinner who did everything with a big heart for somebody's else family.
This book is emotional though gonna make you learn the forgotten lessons on humanity.
I am looking forward to read more from Nanak Singh.
If his this book works as a part of syllabus at Delhi University, I am sure he has written some other jewels too.
Sentimental yet so true to heart story!!
If you have not read "Pavitar Paapi" then you have surely missed an illecebrous piece of writing skills. I am dazzled by the way in which he presents his characters and shows his own freedom using them as a means. Pavitar paapi has been translated into English under the name of "Saintly Sinner".Natasha Tolstoy, grand-daughter of novelist Leo Tolstoy, translated Nanak Singh's novel Chitta Lahu into Russian. She visited Nanak Singh in Amritsar to present the first copy of the translated novel to him.
this is my first novel i read ...m very thankfull to my a friend manpreet who give me this type of reading confidence
I liked the idea of going back in the past from the present in the beginning. Later narrating what had happened with a young lad. His passion for success in life, social being, love, affection, sacrifice and more than anything else having to tell lies so that he can manage the situation of the family. Then finally living a regretful life and getting his health deteriorated. But then actually happened is not what actually he had thought had happened. Fate........!
It was my 2nd novel. After reading this novel i sat in the corner and cried like a little kid for two hours. I can't forget those great chrs specially 'Veena'. I think i'm in love with her and i can literaly feel her
I haven't read this book in punjabi but the English translation. Written by Nanak Singh and translated by his grandson it is poignant and moving true story of Kedar. Amazing book. The last scene had me in tears. A must read.
It is fantastic story for entertainment nothing else.. bcz from this i didnt learn any lesson except tht we should not hurt anybody.. also we shouldnt love tht guy or girl who takes you as him/her sister/brother... we should treat him or her as sis bro... thts all
Brilliant Novel written by Nanak Singh Navalkar. There is also movie made on this novel in 1970. Please watch it on youtube available on the following link:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qGnxZ4...Thanks,Raman Sangha
My friend suggested me to read this book, In starting it was a little bore but till the end it was a great story. After reading now i understood why it was called 'Pavitar Paapi', Great storyteller Nanak Singh.
It is fantastic story forentertainment nothing else.. bczfrom this i didnt learn any lessonexcept tht we should not hurtanybody
someone told me to read this novel
A brilliant story telling by the author.
Very nice book having a good story, Teachs that love doesn't meant to get each other.One must read it.
