https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33571713-a-column-of-fire
I've had a whole month and 900+ pages to think about it-- and I just didn't enjoy A Column of Fire as much as The Pillars of the Earth and World Without End. I think I know why, and I'll get to that in a second, but I'd first like to say that this isn't a bad book.
And I simply didn't love/hate the characters I was supposed to love/hate as much as I was supposed to love/hate them.Oh, and for some reason, there was also a strange use of modern terminology in this book that I never noticed in The Pillars of the Earth and World Without End. I read them both fairly recently so I don't think I'm just forgetting.
A Column of Fire is way too short and way too predictable, which is a sort of odd comment to make about a book over 750 pages long with a huge cast of characters.
The same sense of crisis was also apparent in  The World Without End. With this book there was no real sense of danger for anyone (that I was made to feel for.) So it lacked the drama that made the previous two instalments so damn exciting.
There were large transition periods between the characters’ lives that we seemed to miss and the story never fully came together as it needed to.
My love affair with Follett goes as far back as 13 years, when I was first enraptured by Eye of the Needle.
It is fabulously rich in character and plot development and leaves me longing for the next big book you write -especially during the 16th century.
I loved The Pillars of the Earthand World Without End. This one is just as magical.I won't say much about the storyline - just know If you want to be hypnotized and mesmerized by some wicked historical fiction, Follett is the Man. He is a master at crafting a story with all of its elements of characters, love, relationships, politics, religion/heretics and packaging it up in an epic sized story that will light you up like a A Column of Fire.And so my love affair continues as I wipe off my drool from having just kissed this book with a whole lot Of ❤️
Patience is a must before tackling this novel, so be wary if you seek a quick story and easy to decipher characters.When I read the preface to Pillars of the Earth, I learned that Follett was not entirely comfortable with the subject matter when he first wrote that book.
There is action in Kingsbridge and the Cathedral does bear mention on occasion, but a great deal of the story takes place elsewhere, which lessens the impact of the community that readers have come to love.
Follett develops mini-stories throughout Europe, presenting characters who exemplify the religious issues in Spain and France, as well as in England, the attentive reader will remember such ‘branch-offs’ over the aforementioned trilogy.
Follett’s research is meticulous, as his readers would expect.Follett is a master of historical fiction, with meticulous research, adept storytelling and an ability to capture the reader’s interest with colorful, smooth language.
As captured in his previous books in the Kingsbridge series, Follett’s characters are lively, full of emotion and relatable, making the book’s length of no great concern for old fans or new readers alike.A Column of Fire is a cold winter’s night, big pot of tea and bar of chocolate comfort book and there’s plenty of space in the world for that.
It was also a buddy read with a wonderful friend.At the outset, this is a book covering the impact on several families and towns throughout Europe during the religious wars in the late 16th and early 17th centuries.
If you want a 100% accurate book, go read a non-fiction account.With a tome of this length, my review could go on forever.
more than any man should.If you've never read Follett before, you are truly missing out.
If you've not read this 3-book series, you are missing out.
I can't wait to catch up with her about this again!I'll end here not because I am out of things to say, but because I have so many more books to read.
Okay, please don't hate me for doing this in the review box, but just found out there's a third book in the "TPOTE" series and I'M DYING!!!!!!!!!!
Book one was and still is such a love/hate for so many and I'm most definitely one of the diehard lovers of the first book, have the second and can't wait to read it and now A THIRD BOOK?!?!?!?!
Just a little excited :-O I'm being a total book nerd and about to jump out of my skin!!
I can't wait need it now book!
Time to read "World Without End"!
OM*G so excited, lolol.
Book nerd moments are so embarrassing xD
Forgive my corniness, but A Column of Fire just didn't have the flame the previous two books in the series had.
Of the three Kingsbridge novels, I had the hardest time getting through this one; as you may notice, I took me nearly a month and a half to complete it.Why?
There are two main reasons this book didn't hold up to the previous two novels.1.
To Follett's credit, he does effortlessly weave historical knowledge into this book, but it has more to with the power dynamics of the world at the time.2.
The book although a long time coming is worth the wait.
This is the author's gift.The story is as brutal as it is historical with characters the reader will recognise and some they will not, facts they will know and others they will not.The book is divided into four parts which breaks this into manageable sections - it is a huge read of over 750 pages, but certainly worth the wait.As the book ends the reader wonders whether there could be another book, on two continents.I thank the author and Macmillan publishing for allowing me to review this book.
Ned becomes more embroiled in the plots against Elizabeth while Margery marries another forced to give up Ned. As the times and the story continue many characters both real and imagined by Mr Follett create a wonderful telling of the Elizabethan Age. He interweaves the happenings of the times into the story line and makes this novel a true work of fiction seem quite real.
Se Isto é Religião?!Esta obra recordou-me (e já vão entender porquê) um excerto duma cantiga de Chico Buarque que soa mais ou menos assim:"...mesmo quando minhas mãos estão empenhadas em torturar, trucidar, matar...meu coração fecha os olhos e sinceramente, chora!..."Será religião queimar em fogueiras, torturar e massacrar?!...Aonde é que estão a paz e o amor pelo próximo que toda a religião apregoa?!...Foram múltiplas as guerras a que os caciques religiosos se entregaram.
Mumificaram-na, reduzindo-a a uma farsa hipócrita!Mais uma grande obra dum mestre do romance histórico.É sempre um prazer aprender história com Ken Follet :)
4.5 “Sometimes Ned felt he lived in a rotten world.” I haven't read  World Without End  yet, but according what I've gathered from the reviews I've seen and my experience with the wonderful The Pillars of the Earth, A Column of Fire seems to be significantly different from both its predecessors. The most heard complaints are, as far as I know, the weakness of the romance and the lack of depth when it comes to the characters, most likely due to A Column of Fire having a much wider scope than the
The most heard complaints are, as far as I know, the weakness of the romance and the lack of depth when it comes to the characters, most likely due to A Column of Fire having a much wider scope than the first installments in the Kingsbridge series.
In coming to terms with this change, I believe I was helped by my indestructible love for the other Follett historical series, The Century Trilogy, which I still like better than anything else I have read by him.
I was very familiar with this time period, the religious wars in France and England, the Spanish Inquisition.
A fantastic portraying of the history of this time period.
In his effort to cover so much ground, in different areas, he sacrificed character development, and made the various threads difficult to smoothly follow.
By the time we return to the other thread, it was hard to once again engageYes, he can write.
So read it for the history, and though I always had a few favored characters, they were not really fully fleshed, it was hard to actually get z handle on their personalities.
'A Column of Fire' by Ken Follett. I loved 'Pillars of the Earth' and 'World Without End' so I had high hopes for this book but I think I was put off by the fact that I had read a lot of historical books about this period so it was rather boring to me. I did engage with a couple of the characters and found parts of the book interesting.
I'm a huge fan of Pillars of the Earth and World Without End. After only two chapters of this book I am hugely disappointed. It is difficult to believe that Ken Follet wrote this book. The language is juvenile and the vernacular is very modern and western. I'll continue reading and hope for some improvement.
Αρκετά ωραίο αλλά δεν είναι σαν τα δύο προηγούμενα. Προσπάθησε πολύ χωρίς να του βγαίνει αβίαστα...
In my opinion it was not a good time to be alive.The story moves through 50 eventful years of Reformation history beginning in 1558 during the reign of Bloody Mary of England and finally ending with the Gunpowder Plot of 1605.
Among the more dramatic interludes are the St. Bartholomew’s Day Massacre, in which Parisian Catholics murdered thousands of Huguenots (French Protestants); the execution of Mary, Queen of Scots, an act that sent shock waves throughout Europe; and the miraculous defeat of the Spanish Armada by a much smaller force.Some other lesser know historical events described in this book include the following listed items (not complete):1.
In comparison to Follett's other Kingsbridge novels, sadly, I'd only give it three stars.There is something magical about The Pillars of the Earth and World Without End. In those novels Follett weaves together the lives of ordinary people and makes what might otherwise seem mundane, engrossing.
The primary problem is that this is not the tale of that triumphant fictional town of Kingsbridge.
It happened on a much grander scale and somehow didn't hold my attention as tightly as the smaller, more personal battles of Kingsbridge.However, there are other things to love about this novel.
However, if you have read the previous Kingsbridge novels, I would advise that you do not go into this expecting a third.
If you love history and particularly the 16th Century Western European politics and religious wars, this series, and particularly this book is a very good addition to the usual historical fiction variety.
Mr. Follett brings the reality of the time in a very realistic and relatable manner, although he puts us more in the observer's role, thus letting us have the emotional separation needed to be able to get through a hefty and merciless read like this one.
I still have an problem with the way he is able to cover such breath of complex issues, while he is more than shallow when it comes to characters and their interactions.
Ich muss ehrlich sagen, dass ich mich mehr darauf gefreut habe, als es mich letztlich überzeugt hat.
Ja, die Geschichte war toll, aber eigentlich hatte es so gar nichts mehr mit Die Säulen der Erde zu tun.
Weder inhaltlich oder zeitlich, noch vom Gefühl beim Lesen.
Es ist interessant, einen so großen Überblick über den Konflikt zwischen Katholiken und Protestanten zu bekommen, aber es war mir einfach irgendwann zu viel.
Zu viele Zahlen, zu viele Personen, zu viele Beziehungen, zu viele Zeitsprünge, zu viele Längen im Buch.
Oft musste ich mich motivieren, überhaupt weiterzumachen, weil es sehr sehr zäh wurde.Leider nur 3 Sterne.
I did it for my country, which is dear to me; for my sovereign, whom I serve; and for something else, a principle, the belief that a person had the right to make up his own mind about God.
As I come up for air after 900 pages, I will say that it was definitely a treat to revisit the old stomping grounds.But I found myself nostalgic for the craziness of the medieval period and the building of the cathedral.
Although a more extensive character list would have been much appreciated, I do acknowledge that the back of the book has a list of the real historical persons that travel the pages.
"Religous hypocrisy" may be a better title for this long, tortuous, brutal, murdering and warring legions under the guise of Catholics and Protestants. While I admire Ken Follett as an author, I despise this story. 1 of 10 stars
Y si fueses de la mano de personajes atrayentes igual tenía su perdón (o si fuese más corto), pero en este caso son todos arteros, intrigantes o bueeeeeeeenos que no convencen.No hay interés ni ideas nuevas.
I love his writing.... this one just fell short
Na Europa, existe um fator comum: as lutas entre católicos e protestantes e o extremismo das duas posições contrabalançado pelo desejo de tolerância de algumas pessoas.O período cronológico abordado neste livro é extenso (começa em 1558 e o epílogo decorre em 1620) e, como se sabe, esta época foi fértil em acontecimentos históricos: a ascensão da rainha Isabel I ao trono e a luta pela sua manutenção nessa posição (que incluiu a execução de Maria da Escócia, sua parente e pretendente ao trono, e a luta contra a Armada Invencível), a já referida luta entre católicos e protestantes, intrigas palacianas e assassinatos, entre muitos outros.
This is a historical fiction epic.The book takes place during a tumultuous time in England's history: the late 1500s and early 1600s.
Who can that ruler trust?This was a time period that was familiar to me but what I appreciated is that for the most part, Follett's characters are just on the edge of history.
We see how calculated each move must be for even these edge-of-history characters in order to be on the "right" side at the "right" time.
Large casts can often be an issue for me because of the likelihood of characters blending together but Follett really does a good job of creating different storylines that intertwine in surprising ways.This was a great read!
I expect sumptuous historical novels from Ken Follett and he definitely delivered again.
Ned is drawn into the network around Elizabeth and becomes a spy, infiltrating the networks that would have her de-throned.
Traitors must die though, and there are plenty of those.This is a truly sprawling historical novel, that delves deeply into polar opposites of Mary, Queen of Scots, and Elizabeth I.
I thought Mary Queen of Scots perhaps was Elizabeth's half sister or something - given that Henry VIII, her father, had such a lot of wives - but no, she was just a distant cousin.
It irritated me to no end that most of the fictional characters somehow took over the pivotal role in so many important events of that time-St Bartholomew's Day massacre, the Guy Fawkes gunpowder plot, Walsingham's spy ring, Mary Stuart's sole companion and solace (and no, Queen Mary did not have a close attendant named Alison-they were all named Mary), etc.
It started to become comical, really, how important most of the characters made themselves to be in history.
I think I've been spoiled by my extensive reading of all things Tudor.

Great historical fiction immerses the reader in a different time and place.
The chatty narrative at least made this 900 page behemoth a quick read.Anachronisms abound in this book: “Girlie” (p.130) first known use 1857 (https://www.merriam-webster.com/dicti...
“sexy” (p.134) first known use 1896 (https://www.merriam-webster.com/dicti...
“grubby” (p.135) first known use 1725 (https://www.merriam-webster.com/dicti...).
It's a minor point but there are enough instances to cause the reader to forget that the speakers are of another time.The story follows the main character, Ned Willard, from 1558 to 1606.
(I was shocked to discover these years also spanned eight papacies.
