https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1939689.The_Ancient_Allan
XENA: WARRIOR PRINCESS did it by having all the main characters reincarnated into the modern day.With a couple exceptions (XENA, for one), such episodes were boring and generally came across as obvious "filler."Which is why I was so trepidatious about THE ANCIENT ALLAN, since, from the book description, you'd think Haggard was really scraping the bottom of the idea barrel here.
Rider Haggard wrote that treats of the adventures of Allan Quatermain, our hero--through the use of the inhaled Taduki drug--views one of his previous incarnations.
While not as battle intensive as other books in the series, this novel is always interesting, and does feature, amongst other things, a lion hunt, a blind wizard in a cave, a visit to Ethiopia, a fight with a crocodile, and a rousing climactic battle between the forces of the Persians and the allied Egyptian/Ethiopian armies.
And for fans of Hans, Quatermain's Hottentot sidekick, there is a previous incarnation of that great character, as well.
This is the conclusion of a set of three Allan Quatermain stories: Allan and the Holy Fower, The Ivory Child, and finally The Ancient Allan.
In it Allan recounts a previous life while under the influence of a drug.
There are many little nuances that readers will like.
I loved the fact that Allan's Hottentot companion made an appearance in a previous incarnation.
Reincarnation was a particular interest at the time that Haggard was writing and he played to his audience.
I find his books a good mirror to look at life and the mindset of the people of the time.
I don't think that readers will be disappointed.
Be sure to read The Ivory Child before this story. I enjoyed this story thoroughly and found it one of the Author's best. Good plot. Good characters with very good development. A clever story with in a story it ended well but all too soon.
Allan Quartermain as a character is often said to be a proto-Indiana Jones, however, he mostly takes on one of two roles in these stories.
The not-entirely-useless-but-close white man dragged through the adventure by his much more competent ethnic side-kick.In The Ivory Child he was very much the latter, in this he's a little more active but his side-kick and the other characters are still calling most of the shots.There's some magic and crazy stuff here and some decent action especially towards the end, in fact the end battle seemed suspiciously like that of the 'Pelennor fields' from The Lord of the Rings :P .But mostly it was just the charm that kept me going, also its short :) .
#10 in the Allan Quatermain, African adventurer, series.
This is the 3rd in a series following Allan's adventures recounted in The Ivory Child.
A few years later, Allan encounters Lady Ragnall, now a widow, and who are still attracted to each other seemingly without reason.
Using the smoke of an ancient Egyptian herb used in the previous novel, Quatermain and Lady Ragnall find themselves transported to ancient Egypt becomes an earlier incarnation of himself Shabaka, of royal blood, a warrior renown for his skill and accuracy with the bow and lover of the Lady Amada, the Priestess of Isis.This is a sort of magical mystery adventure leaving open the end of his Egyptian life.
Another tale of one of our earliest heroes. The language used, the style of writing, the tale itself all bring about to tell you of a time gone by. The author was often criticised for his friendship and admiration of the black races. Reading this book these days it shows how far we have come but also how far we need to travel. If written today this book would be accused of racism amongst other things, at the time this was leading edge thinking and shocking to the public.
Not as much fun as other Quartermain stories, but the bond between Alan and the lady adds an unexpected bit of intensity.
Clever as it was for Haggard to resurrect some of his favorite characters as well as rejuvenate Allan, his effort ultimately just quite doesn't achieve its desired results.
The Ancient Allan seems to lack much of the energy of the earlier novels.
To be expected, of course, as Haggard was working on his tenth iteration of Quatermain and doing so as an elderly writer whose spirit clearly did not match that employed in the earlier adventures of Quatermain.
And very much enjoyable to encounter Hans as the Ethiopian monarch, Bes. Of course, there is also Allan, once more in the prime of his life.Haggard has written an appealing series.
STORY WITHIN A STORY
Written late in Haggard's career – The Ancient Allan, a tale of love-death set in Egypt.
