https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/235683.A_Shortened_History_of_England

"Obviously not shortened enough," was my family's view of this book.
It's taken me about four months to read, and it was a day of great rejoicing when I finished.As you can infer, I found parts of this history a bit dry.
Some of the problem stems from the fact that this was a history book above my level; Trevelyan assumes that his reader has a working knowledge of key figures and major events for each era, which mostly I do not.One of the greatest merits of this book, however, is his ability to be sympathetic to previous eras, and to place events in their proper context, rather than simply judge them by modern standards and morality.Altogether an informative overview of English history.
Cracking example of narrative history-doesn't let a lack of sources get in the way of a great story.
p.55From these origins as part of shared germanic stock, Trevelyan traces what remarkable steps lead the society apart from all other kingdoms of Europe, with growing provincialism and with that famous "island mentallity" that was commented on even half a millenium ago by "Henry VIII's Venetian envoy":they think that there are no other men than themselves, and no other world but England; and whenever they see a handsome foreigner, they say "he looks like an Englishman"; and when they partake of any delicacy with a foreigner they ask him "whether such a thing is made in his country?" In the middle of the Tudor period a French visitor wrote:The people of this nation mortally hate the French as their old enemies, and always call us "France cheneve," "France dogue." (=French knave, French Dog).
Magisterial, elegant, beautifully written.
Lord Trevelyan was born to this subject, taking us easily through centuries of British history, royal successions, political and military upheaval.
One (small) caveat: he's a creature of his time, so the various "colonies'' in the U.S., India and even Ireland get somewhat short shrift; he's sympathetic to their grievances, but only to an extent.
And the latter part of the history, from the First World War to the Second (the book was published in 1942) get somewhat skimpier treatment, with events too fresh to get his full attention.
A "shortened'' history, indeed.
if you're seeking to read a history book about historical characters and not the importance of naval power and endless tirade of reform bills... this will not be the book for you. read winston churchill instead.
I read somewhere that Trevelyan's works are now "largely unread", which is a very great tragedy.
Trevelyan was the most widely read historian in an era when most people had not yet abandoned the habit of reading.
His work allows the reader to understand how men once understood and read history (largely as progressing from barbarism to civilizations--as in Trevelyan's case), but Trevelyan also proves without a doubt that one can write compelling and erudite history without sacrificing style.
There is no need to write in obscure language and resort to sophistry and semantic subterfuge to be taken seriously (ahem, modern academics).
Incredibly concise and beautifully written narrative history of Britain from pre-Roman times to pre WW2.
Some antiquated sentiments verging on authoritarian eg that the feudal serf was better off despite his servitude because his lord made the world a more stable place.
But striking, vivid images eg the victorious Saxons who refused to live in abandoned Roman villas meaning that for "some centuries, the Roman ruins must have stood as a familiar a sight as the roofless abbeys under the Stuart Kings, a useful stone quarry sometime by day, but at night haunted in the imagination of the Saxon peasant by the angry ghosts of the races that his forefathers had destroyed."
Lots of stuff packed into a small space. Cover painting by Hogarth. Read for a class at U. of Colorado. Professor Simon delivered his daily lecture without notes while chain smoking. No time for any questions at the end. No final exam if you were willing to accept the grade you got on your mid-term. Date read is approximate.
A useful tool I always address myself to when it comes to fill the gaps of my poor historical knowledge of England and the United Kingdom. Concise and very well-written, this book provides an adequate overview of the story of the nation from the remote days of the Celts to the end of WWI.
I've given up.
About the anti-war movement in England during the American Revolution
Trevelyan's description of historical events is no less than an intellectual as well as artistic masterpiece.
i think that this book gives you a claer information about the huge and the great english's civilization, so this book is very rich.
More than an American will ever want to know (and this is the short version), but fascinating.
Based on Trevelyan's earlier, greater works, this 1959 single volume only covers through the 1930s.
