https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22699774-the-lords-of-creation
A good primer on the once and future soul of America. Lobbyists, lawyers and tailors will be back in vogue like flies on meat, like traders on a new hedging strategy. Instead of steel, railroads and oil, its big box stores, on-line retailing, data harvesting and storage, but the thrust will be the same. Back to the future, anyone?
This is a tremendous book.
The topic is the financial origins of the Great Depression.
Published in 1935 it also gives an account of the Great Depression as it seemed at the time.
So much of what we read about that era is shaped by Keynes.
This gives a first hand impression.
But its greatest strength is that it is even-handed.
The subject of this book is a deep financial crisis that had very broad impacts.
The fact that Allen could look at that topic in a balanced way is remarkable.
ITs the best book I've read in the last ten years.
Excellent treatment of the “makers” and “job creators” of yesteryear. Some of them really were job creators, and they were surrounded by, as you might expect, the usual coterie of sycophants and cozeners, who preyed on whomever they could like the “heroes” of Auschwitz (i.e., read Primo Levi). After the crashes, some of them did eventually go to jail, like the guys at SAC.
Fascinating insight into the lifestyles and the mentality and the sheer drive of some of the big players in the US around the turn of the century. It further strengthens my belief that capitalism is a system that can never be in harmony with the proletariat and should be abolished by either Revolution or Radical Reforms.
Frederick Lewis Allen was an excellent researcher of historic and financial facts, with that being said this would have been a better read if it was three separate books. Too much reflection and comparison of the financial and social happenings between 1908, 1929 and the good years in between.
Mr. Allen describes a nuances history of early American industrialization and the first and second generation "Masters of the Universe" on Wall Street.
While the author expresses sympathy for the working man and the victims of economic machinations, he also portrays the industrialists and financiers as complex men who cannot be easily labeled as good or evil.
But these men surrounded themselves with a social and economic class of equals who were far less harsh in their assessment and often viewed each others behavior as virtuous and with a sense of noblesse oblige aimed at the growth of a nation.
An easy-to-read, yet comprehensive, overview of the vast expansion of corporations and finance in the US between the 1890’s and the 1930’s.
There are fascinating vignettes of selected “captains of industry and finance”, many of whom were born into poverty but had the skill and the drive to learn the financial tricks and became billionaires.
Financial malpractice was egregious and rampant and lead directly and repeatedly to economic crises.
Lessons learned, if any, were soon forgotten or ignored.
Today, in 2014, one can see the same self-serving financial greed in action.
Excessive speculation in dubious financial instruments follows a pattern similar to the excesses of the 1920’s.
Extremely well-written book from 1935 that describes the boom and crash of 1929. More even-handed than I would have liked as the author gives the major bankers more a break than I would but does give many examples of the pyramid schemes, commercial banks also having an investment bank and what results. Mentions Cambridgeport in a quote and also George F. Johnson and ? Endicott as being more supportive of their workers which was not usually the case.His prediction is not overly optimistic.
Pick this book out of curiosity ... Way too long than needed !
