https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11899.The_Hours
Catherine told me you just finished reading Mrs. Dalloway.
When I was doing research on Virginia Woolf, before reading Mrs. Dalloway, I couldn’t help thinking of Catherine as Virginia and Charlotte as Vanessa.
I leaned in and kissed Charlotte’s ear, raising the stakes, and then muttered in the sea shell of her ear that I was going to take Catherine home.
I’d read most of The Hours last night.
If you were a true friend, you’d pick me up and hurl me out that window.” I thought of Septimus from Mrs. Dalloway and Richard from The Hours.
Catherine was leaning over Charlotte.
Catherine had read Mrs. Dalloway and was now reading The Hours.
Yes, it did relight a flame in me to read the primary Woolf works (Orlando, Mrs Dalloway, To The Lighthouse, The Waves) and reminded me of the one I did read (A Room of One's Own), but still, something about it felt a little superficial.
Was it the length (just 220 pages) and the relative ease with which I read it (less than 2 hours)?
Regardless, I was not blown away by The Hours, but perhaps will read Flesh and Blood by this author as suggested by another reviewer here on GR.
89. The Hours, Michael CunninghamThe Hours is a 1998 novel written by Michael Cunningham. It won the 1999 Pulitzer Prize for Fiction, the 1999 PEN/Faulkner Award for Fiction, and was later made into an Oscar-winning 2002 movie of the same name starring Nicole Kidman, Meryl Streep and Julianne Moore.ساعتها - مایکل کانینگهام (کاروان) برنده جایزه پولیتزر؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه آوریل سال 2012 میلادیعنوان: ساعتها؛ نویسنده: مایکل کانینگهام ؛ مترجم: مهدی غبرایی؛ تهران، کاروان، 1382؛ در 236 ص؛ چاپ دوم
The Hours, Michael CunninghamThe Hours is a 1998 novel written by Michael Cunningham.
It won the 1999 Pulitzer Prize for Fiction, the 1999 PEN/Faulkner Award for Fiction, and was later made into an Oscar-winning 2002 movie of the same name starring Nicole Kidman, Meryl Streep and Julianne Moore.ساعتها - مایکل کانینگهام (کاروان) برنده جایزه پولیتزر؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه آوریل سال 2012 میلادیعنوان: ساعتها؛ نویسنده: مایکل کانینگهام ؛ مترجم: مهدی غبرایی؛ تهران، کاروان، 1382؛ در 236 ص؛ چاپ دوم و سوم 1383؛ و ...؛عنوان: ساعتها؛ نویسنده: مایکل کانینگهام ؛ مترجم: ماندانا ارفع؛ تهران، عطایی، 1382؛ در 240 ص؛ رمان با بهره گیری از دیگر زندگینامه ها، شخصیت «ویرجینیا وولف» نویسنده ی بزرگ انگلیسی را بازسازی و زنده میکند، داستان از زبان سه زن تعریف میشود، یکی از زنان همان نویسنده ی بزرگ است و دو دیگر ساختگی هستند.
ا. شربیانی
How does a writer capture that massive (and true) contradiction so well and in a manner that conveys to the reader the great human truth of that moment?The closing pages of this novel are stellar writing (have I mentioned how well written this text is?).
The writing in “The Hours” is the kind that makes you love the fact that you are a reader and get to experience it.This quick read is worth your time.
Really, when it is all said and done this text is a celebration of life, the good and ill, which the final pages of the novel make abundantly clear.“Heaven only knows why we love it so.”
Those hours that stand out to you after decades have left them behind, but you still see them glittering, shining warmly as a reminder of what your life is all about.I could feel dismal, reading this book that tells of illness, suicide, abandonment, and, yes, depression.
Those filled the story and my heart with hope, with the excitement at being reminded of a treasure that had always been right in front of me.At times the book feels a little audacious - periodically I wondered, who are you, Michael Cunningham, to tell me what life is all about?
But it works because he's really talking through Virginia Woolf, and somehow I don't mind her telling me.
Book Circle Reads 20Rating: 4.75* of fiveThe Publisher Says: In The Hours, Michael Cunningham, who is recognized as "one of our very best writers" (Richard Eder, Los Angeles Times), draw inventively on the life and work of Virginia Woolf to tell the story of a group of contemporary characters who are struggling with the conflicting claims of love and inheritance, hope and despair.The novel opens with an evocation of Woolf's last days before her suicide in 1941, and moves to the stories of two modern American women who are trying to make rewarding lives for themselves in spite of the demands of friends, lovers, and family.Clarissa Vaughan is a book editor who lives in present-day Greenwich Village; when we meet her, she is buying flowers to display at a party for her friend Richard, and ailing poet who has just won a major literary prize.
three stories complicated i feel like doesn't understand anything blow my mind but still was something beautiful about it
~rtc
you just feel stupid, huh?" Which, honestly, wasn't that much, but it was enough to annoy me.The problem I had with the whole story was that I could not find sympathy in any of the characters.
I didn't care about them in any way, and with any book you read you should at least care about your characters a little bit, right?I remember watching the movie and not being very entertained by that either, so perhaps that clouded my judgement when I started reading this.
So if you want to save yourself some time, go watch the movie.
Good read! very intriguing..deals with three women that are intertwine and connected by different time period through a simple book....well written...(paperback!)
The first plot focuses on Clarissa Vaughan, a book editor planning a party in honor of her friend Richard's receiving a prestigious literary award; the second on Laura Brown, a housewife dissatisfied with the limitations of her life; the third on Woolf herself, a writer struggling to begin her latest book.
The novel lacks the insight and subtlety of its source material, Mrs. Dalloway, and Cunningham's clichéd portrayal of Woolf as defined by mental instability is careless at best, exploitative at worst.
It introduces the common reader to Woolf's work, though, and it rewrites one of her most famous novels in ways that are interesting, if not especially profound.
Virginia Woolf has began to write the book and is shaping Mrs Dalloway, Clarissa has been named Mrs. D by her friends and her life does resemble Mrs Dalloway's in its domesticity and what-could-have-beens, and Laura Brown is a suburban mom who reads the book and is captivated by and relishes in the vitality and complexities of Mrs Dalloway's life.The women are upper middle class and married (or at least partnered as gay marriage wasn't recognised in the United States or anywhere else in that case at the end of the 20th century) but all feel a mixed sense of failure towards their lives and relationships.
Prevod je nažalost ispao najveća bruka NK, ali nisam imala uticaja na izbor prevodioca... Preporuka: čitajte je isključivo u originalu dok se ne pojavi neki nov prevod na srpski... ili čitajte hrvatski prevod
4.5/5 stars! Such a clever book.

در این میان ـ تنها معدود ـ و باز هم تکرار می‌کنم ـ تنها معدود ـ انسان‌هایی هستند که می‌دانند برای هستی و دل خود چه می‌خواهند و آن‌قدر شهامتش را دارند که بهایش را نیز پرداخت کنند*****ریچارد: تو با من خوب تا کردی خانم دالوویکلاریسا: ریچاردریچارد: دوستت دارم.
I gave the novel one star simply because Goodreads wouldn't let me give it zero!
The book is about three self-absorbed, whiny and spoiled women, all from different eras, complaining and whining about their lives, even though, they essentially have it all (wealth, love, family, friends, etc).
The book is vile.
The characters are repulsive and the plot is tiresome.
I keep asking myself how on earth did this novel win a Pulitzer Prize?
There's a huge red sticker on the front of the cover, of the novel, proudly advertising this fact -- it won the prize for fiction in 1999.
In brief, The Hours leaves me feeling strangely hollow and irked.The book alternates between the stories of three women Tick: Mrs. Dalloway; Tock: Mrs. Woolf; and Tick: Mrs. Brown - all whom appear vaguely dissatisfied with their lives.
She escapes without knowing what she is escaping from.Tick tock, tick tock go the hours.One day; one utterly transformative and inescapable 24 hours of each of the women's lives is slowly narrated, beginning with life, and ending with the possibility of death as means of escape from a banal, yet disheartening existence.
And it didn't so much seem like an interview as four women sitting down to tea and talking about their lives and careers and this movie which three of them had just done together.I'm not a big Oprah devotee, so I am quite sure that I have not seen enough episodes to warrant making such a statement, but it was one of her best episodes.
They were women with families and careers and lives.
I hadn't seen the movie.
I still haven't seen the movie.
I have no interest in the movie.
É engraçado porque "As Horas" é uma história que eu sempre ouvi as pessoas comentando sobre (principalmente por causa do filme) e, ainda assim, eu não tinha a MENOR IDEIA do que ia encontrar quando comecei a ler.
Cada capítulo me fazia refletir sobre alguma coisa diferente, e esse é o tipo de livro que você termina de ler muito mais rico do que quando começou.
Tudo em "As Horas" foi uma surpresa para mim e eu estou muito feliz de ter finalmente conhecido essa história.
Eu conheço a história de Mrs. Dalloway bem por alto apenas, mas dentro de "As Horas" esse conhecimento não é cobrado.
I can only hope, after reading this novel, that I will have the pleasure someday of meeting the author, Michael Cunningham.
This is what I'd like to say to him: Here, in this novel, you have honored the craft of writing.
Here is the place where talent, intelligence and imagination have collided.
Here you have proven that you do not need to lower the bar to meet the mainstream and you have, instead, challenged all of us to raise it higher.
This is an exceptional read, a Pulitzer well-deserved.
A must-read for anyone who has the heart, the brain, the nerve.
The novel explores various themes including loneliness, the role of women in society and particularly in relation to men, and of course the ever-present thought (and sometimes lure) of the grave.I read Mrs Dalloway a couple of years ago, and although I wasn't a big fan of the stream of consciousness style of this classic, I liked how the writing was at times mirrored in this book, particularly in parts of Clarissa Vaughan's narrative.
Filmi defalarca önüme gelmiş olmasına ve bünyesinde çok sevdiğim iki oyuncuyu (Nicole Kidman ve Merly Streep) barındırmasına rağmen izlememiş olmam da, bir sebeple ‘Saatler’e sebepsiz bir gıcıklık beslediğimi gösteriyor :) O yüzden bu beklenmedik okuma, bana başlangıçta külfet gibi gelse de; ülfetle birlikte memnun olduğumu söyleyebilirim.
Şimdi gönül rahatlığıyla filmini izleyebilirim.Diğer yandan bu kitabı henüz okumamış olanlar için bir şeyi belirtmek istiyorum: Henüz Virginia Woolf’un “Mrs. Dolloway” isimli romanını okumadıysanız; bu romanı okumanızı tavsiye etmem.
Keşke o kitabı daha yakın bir zamanda okusaydım diye hayıflanmadım da değil elbette.Romanda üç tane kadın karakter var: Virginia, Laura ve Clarissa.
Kitabın son elli sayfası su gibi aktı gitti ve beni “Mrs.Dolloway”i okuduğum zamanlara götürdü.
Our lives are made up of years, of days, of hours.
The decision each of them makes at the end of their particular day has repercussions on their individual life.I found this passage deeply touching:“There’s just this for consolation: an hour here or there when our lives seem, against all odds and expectations, to burst open and give us everything we’ve ever imagined, though everyone but children (and perhaps even they) knows these hours will inevitably be followed by others, far darker and more difficult.
ویرجینیا وولف که نویسنده ی کتاب "خانم دالووی" هستش و دو زنی که هرکدوم به نوعی از این کتاب الهام گرفتن.
و البته در پایان کتاب پرده از راز ارتباط بین این سه زن برداشته میشه.مایکل کانینگهام قسمت اول رو درمورد زندگی واقعی ویرجینیا وولف نوشته و صحنه هایی از زندگیش رو بازسازی کرده ولی داستان دو زن دیگه، صرفا الهام گرفته از رمان خانم دالووی هستن.کتاب جذاب و خوش خوانیه.
بعد از اینم قصد دارم اول کتاب فیلم نامش رو بخونم و بعد هم فیلمشو ببینم.
و البته به شدت راغب شدم کتاب خانم دالووی رو هم بخونم.
In this case, The Hours can either be seen as a standalone novel telling the parallel stories of three women in three time periods or as a complementary text to Virginia Woolf’s Mrs. Dalloway.
He lets us into their minds and reveals to us the kinds of doubts and self-examination that haunt all of us, and he does so with some sensitivity.And yet, many elements of The Hours feel cliché to me: the plot turns, the characters’ desperation, the coincidental interactions.
We look at the result and remark to each other about how nicely they reflect what we know and want to think.
There is no doubt that with this book, Michael Cunningham has done a beautiful job at interweaving the lives of Virginia Wolff, the author, and Clarissa Dalloway, one of his most famous fictional characters.
Even though I have watched the movie starring three of my favourite actresses, I think that the books gives you SO much more of an insight into these hidden gems and connections, and because of that I wasn't bored at any point despite already knowing the overall story.
I think that you have to have read "Mrs Dalloway" in order to fully understand and appreciate this story.
"Non credo che due persone avrebbero potuto essere più felici di quanto siamo stati noi"Scrivere una recensione, o anche uno straccio soltanto di commento su questo piccolo capolavoro è impresa quanto mai ardua ed impossibile.
Potrei provarci e riprovarci: rimmarebbe sempre la sensazione di non aver reso per nulla la grandezza e la perfezione di questo gioiello della letteratura contemporanea.
Allora potrei anche dire solo questo.
Vi basti questo: qualunque recensione non può nemmeno lontanamente rappresentare la magnificenza di questo romanzo.Breve ma intensissimo, "Le ore" è un romanzo a tre voci, nelle quali si coglie tutta la genialità e l'umanità dell'autore.
This book made me want to weep and to sing with joy.
This is Michael Cunningham's tribute to Virginia Woolf.We have the lives of three women connected in a literary way: Virginia Woolf in her retreat away from London; Clarissa Daloway, an editor preparing a party for her birthday, and, finally, Mrs Brown, a housewife in the 50s living an unsuitable life for herself.All of then are struggling with her own issues.
Now, she feels imprisoned.Cunningham cleverly interwines their lives, making a path for the reader to discover the secrets they are hidding from themselves in plain sight.You are going to love the literary reference to Woolf's life and works, and the poetic language the author uses to create beautiful atmospheres that surrounds the characters.
I *never* cry when I read books – this time I cried.FAVOURITE QUOTE: “It had seemed like the beginning of happiness, and Clarissa is still sometimes shocked, more than thirty years later, to realize that it was happiness; that the entire experience lay in a kiss and a walk, the anticipation of dinner and a book.
What lives undimmed in Clarissa’s mind more than three decades later is a kiss at dusk on a patch of dead grass, and a walk around a pond as mosquitoes droned in the darkening air.
