https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/264156.Biology
Some parts of the book are moderately challenging, requiring one to bring to active use material learned in earlier chapters; this is particularly so in the coverage of biochemistry and cytology.Another inconsistency, not unrelated to the first, is in the rigor of the science.
My retained knowledge gained from Scientific American articles and from economics showed up gaps in these chapters.Finally the tone was inconsistent, ranging from dispassionately descriptive to preachy.Minor point: the glossary needs expansion.
It misses terms, not common outside the field, that are used in widely separated parts of the text.
I remember taking Biology in high school vaguely, only really remembering that I didn’t like it all that much.
Taking it now in college I can say that I do like it, most of it at least.
And this book helped play a part in that.
The text is full of pictures and diagrams; I learn best visually so these helped me immensely.
The text is also full of jargon but the technical names are all explained.
There are a few topics in the book that I needed additional supplement readings to understand but for the most part, the authors explained ideas in an easy to get manner.
In these chapters (and only in these chapters) the facts are presented not as they are elsewhere, as just a string of true statements (or purportedly true statements - another failing of Raven is that he uses many speculative studies which are still being debated and after mentioning they are still disputed, proceeds to treat them as though they were established facts) connected by conjunctions and unnecessarily technical mumbo jumbo, but as a unity of interrelated, interlocking parts to a puzzle.I cannot imagine (and I can imagine quite a good deal) any possible way this text could have been written more poorly.
Pre-read/use:I thought the previous edition of this book was pretty good. I think this book should be largely similar to the previous edition, but with some better instructor resources. I'm going to ask my students to rate it at the end of the semester and I'll post their rating here with my review.Post-read/use:Still good. Not as many updates as I thought there would be. The publisher caught me on this one.
A fantastic textbook that explains biology in terms of time, energy, evolution, behaviour and ecosystem. The scope is utterly amazing. A good teacher should be able to take this book and show how life scales from the single-cell to the biosphere for each of the many physiological processes we depend on.
Good stuff for everyone here. Too much fun. Again, McGraw-Hill did an excellent job with the teaching/learning resources that accompany this text.
Reading for Ecology is finished...two classes, 1 paper, and 1 final to go!
i want to download this book how i can download it
The nerd in me loved this ridiculously huge and overly in depth text.
i think this book.....
