https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92408.Shardik
2,5/5 Shardik is one of those books that don't age well...Kelderek, a young hunter with a soft heart and a simple nature, witnesses an enormous bear fleeing a devastating fire that ravaged a forest near his home.
Just like in Watership Down, the vivid descriptions and carefully-crafted allusions come in contrast with the intriguing plot and the well-developed characters, building a beautiful pattern and resulting in a compelling narration.
Weird and hard to pronounce names, numerous and unnecessary similes, lengthy metaphors and miscarried imagery come together to expand Shardik on excessive word count that will probably result in the reader casting the book aside.
1.5I'll be honest, the only reason I read this book was because of the reference to 'Shardik' in Stephen King's Dark Tower series. If you are a DT fan like me and plan to read this one, let me give you some advice; don't bother. The book is long and boring...end of review.
Shardik, a great bear revered as the power of the divine, is very much a  Monster of God in the sense that David Quammen writes of in his book by that title.
Unlike real bears, who nosh whoever happens to get in their way, Shardik never eats someone who doesn’t deserve it (though I daresay he may have snacked on some innocent cattle.) The religion Adams creates is neither ancient a la  Clan of the Cave Bear nor quite Christian, but something of both.
The weirdest device was Adams’ references to real-world history and myths in his made-up universe.
But I am surprised that Shardik hasn’t had the staying power of Adams’ first novel.
Those front cover graphics are absolutely stunning, but beyond that, this book is a beautiful, brutal and courageous fantasy novel with so many intriguing surprises.
DNF @ 40% This was somewhere between boring and like. Okay maybe? Like it could have been good but it just wasn't grabbing me.
I did have some prior experience with Richard Adams, having read/enjoyed/been impressed with Watership Down and The Plague Dogs.
In fact, while reading Plague Dogs, I noticed that Adams manages to keep me reading right on through something I cannot stand in most books: lengthy description of setting, particularly landscapes.
So much of The Plague Dogs is the setting, and not only did I read all that stuff about the Lake District, it actually made me want to find out more about the area, and even, possibly, to visit there one day.Anyway, Shardik.
When I read a Richard Adams book, it takes over my whole life. Every event in my life mirrors what the characters are going through. I stay up way too late reading so that I can see the characters through to the end of the scene. His books are way too real to me.
I knew this one wasn't going to be a talking animal story.
Talking animals are not something I seek out in fiction anyway.
My biggest problem with Shardik was that I never connected with any of the characters.
He changes a lot over the course of the story, but he always felt more like a magicless marionette than a person to me.
There is some beautiful craftsmanship in the language and description.Shardik himself was the most interesting thing in the book.
The question of his divinity pulled me along through the first half of the book.
Shardik is epic fantasy, and nothing at all like what he created in Watership Down.
Unlike Adams's other books Watership Down and The Plague Dogs, the bear's perspective is only seen in the initial two chapters and for the remainder of the story he is a powerful and often antagonistic force that merely serves to set the wheels turning in the story.
The story has strong themes of redemption, suffering and mankind's spiritual search for God in the world.I would recommend Shardik to anyone who really loves Adams's previous works, animal-lovers or anyone who appreciates the details that come with epic high fantasy.
Давно у меня не было ощущения, что я не поняла в романе процентов 60, поэтому мне надо теперь прочесть работы по поводу "Шардика" (а роман классный).
The plot was immensely intriguing, and despite the tiresome writing style I found myself constantly entertained by the twists and turns of this epic.
As I have already mentioned, the writing style was very difficult to get through, and I found myself often needing a break.
One thing that needs to be mentioned about this novel is the very overt stance on religion.
I didn't find the novel too "preachy", but then again I didn't think The Chronicles of Narnia were either, and those books have turned a few people off.
Seemingly, he and the other children are saved by the bear, Shardik, which kills the slave trader just before it dies itself.In the end, Kelderek is forgiven his sins and becomes governor of the frontier town, opening it to trade with the far world.
(And it is a very Christian kind of God, sacrificing itself to free children from slavery.) This acceptance can lead to horrors--enslaving children--or the best of works--at the end, Kelderek's frontier region takes in the world's abandoned children and gives them a place to live and be valued.But the book leaves open the question of whether Shardik is really a God, or just a force of nature whose actions are interpreted as divine.
"Shardik" is the story of a young and innocent hunter named Kelderek, living in a primitive civilization, but drawn into an overwhelming tidal wave of change by the appearance of an enormous wounded bear near his home village.
Compared to Watership Down (as the book inevitably will be), it's a twist in tone and approach that is intriguing: Adams has left writing for children, and his new story delves into harsh adult realities, bloody violence, primitive zealotry, and barbarianism.
And yet the book is not about this (apparently) unwitting god, but rather is about Kelderek, a simple man who is dragged from his role as innocent hunter to that of a disaffected tyrant.
The Ortelgans live on an island and worship “Shardik,” the power of God manifested into a giant bear that has long been missing.
Quite quickly his tribal leaders decide to use the great bear in order to conquer their southern neighbors, a move which has terrible consequences.The narrative is more old-fashioned in style, a bit like 19th century prose.
I did appreciate how it was never made clear on whether or not Shardik WAS the power of God manifested into a giant bear, of if Shardik WAS simply a wild bear they thought was their deity.
For one thing, it is clearly an adult novel; its content is not inappropriate for children, but its sophistication in ideas and language make it a far more challenging read than its predecessor.Unlike Watership Down, which placed its anthropomorphic characters squarely in a real-world setting, Shardik is based in a fantasy world of Adams' creation, one of exceptional detail and vibrancy.
Its unlikely protagonist is a simple huntsman who happens to encounter the seeming flesh-and-blood incarnation of his peoples' God, the great bear Shardik.
In his introduction to the new edition, Adams expresses a slightly wounded pride in this book, which was his follow-up to the phenomenally successful ‘Watership Down’.
It is a splendidly written book, obviously deeply personal in its expression of the author’s principles (and nightmares), and a bold choice to follow ‘Watership Down’ – but it is so dark, dense and bloody, so lacking in sympathetic characters, so disillusioned in its politics, so unrelenting in the style of a Greek tragedy (a debt acknowledged by the author), that it is not hard to understand a lack of warm response from readers.
Stephen King recommended book. King named one of the Guardians of the Beam, Shardik. The Bear-God was encountered in King's Dark Tower novel The Waste Lands.
✭✭✭½
I gave up on this about 300 pages in, I found the main conflict frustrating and all the protagonists insipid. A big disappointment since I loved Watership Down.
Onvan : Shardik (Beklan Empire #1) - Nevisande : Richard Adams - ISBN : 715633317 - ISBN13 : 9780715633311 - Dar 604 Safhe - Saal e Chap : 1974
I'll give the example that kept coming up in my mind...one of the things I felt that Joseph's tale in Genesis is missing is his unbecoming.
Joseph goes from honored son (in a very localized way...in one of his nation's families) to a slave in Egypt (a global identity) and on to a lord in the nation he lives which helps his people to rise to prominence.
So this same man who was brought up a slave carries on the slavery in his own reign, but his eventual downfall is what is missing (Israel, the nation, does have a downfall, but that is apart from the Joseph narrative).
I was warned this was dense, but clearly I was not warned enough. No pun intended, but Christ this was dense!At the end of the day, Adams took hundreds and hundreds of pages to say everyone should be nicer to each other and don't get so wrapped in up in distracting symbols.
It helped that I also loved Watership Down and The Plague Dogs, and that the mythic nature of Richard Adams writing in general speaks to me.
Shardik was a much, much more mythic book than the other two, which would mark The Plague Dogs as the most...
well, down to earth book out of this particular bunch.Shardik is the story of a young man (Kelderek) who comes across a great bear (short-nosed bear, perhaps?) that he believes to be The Power of God incarnate: the divine Shardik.
It dragged in places, and the world that Richard Adams created was confusing at times.
All the same, the book was good and the questions it raised fascinating to me.
"Children Are the Flames of God" Richard Adams' epic fantasy Shardik (1974) differs from his first novel, the wonderful rabbit epic Watership Down (1972), and from his third, the devastating satire The Plague Dogs (1977).
Fourth, rather than depicting a (rabbit or dog) quest to find a home, the later novel, as Adams says in the 2014 Introduction to the audiobook, is about "power, politics, corruption, and the nature of religious truth."Shardik begins with an apocalyptic fire burning a giant bear into the backwater province of Ortelga.
I wasn't fond of the main character Kelderek, and he, not Shardik, is the focus of the book.
how boring!
Or dreadfully boring?
Also, I appreciate seeing the same characters through an outside perspective during the last thirty-some pages.
Still, if in 600 pages, a book can't make me feel the least bit sympathetic for the main character...
Shardik tells an interesting story, but it is dragged down by some bloated writing.
Apparently, in the religion of Ortelga, this bear is the embodiment of their god, Shardik, and Kelderek reports this to his fellows.
The story is mostly interesting and unconventional, and brought to light some intriguing ideas related to religion as an idea and religion as a practice among men.
But the good aspects of this book are very much obscured by the writing, which really could have used some pruning.
That, combined with some strange aspects of the story that didn't really make very much sense, makes me hesitant to recommend this book to others.
I also have to confess that I got less than half way through the book, so this review may not hold as much weight as one from someone who completed it.The main reason I didn't like like this story very much is the main character.
With the endless monotonous hills of West Texas rolling past my window, reading long and slow descriptions of the characters going over the river and through the woods did not provide effective escapism.I will probably attempt this book again, as well as pursue other works by Adams.
and somehow managed to like it without really having 'got it': "It's just about people wandering around in the wake of this bear." Obtained and read it again recently as a sophisticated and erudite adult looking to make up for this past failing (and rather fancying Osric my lore-master alterego naming a bear friend 'Shardic').
It seemed to hint at having more of a point and felt like one ought to discern an allegorical meaning, but I was ultimately disappointed.
(But at least the old Penguin version I got didn't have such awful cover art as this looks like!)
I think I'd give this one about 3.5 stars.
I absolutely love Watership Down and I've tried to read Shardik in the past but I don't think I had the maturity to appreciate it at the time.
It was still difficult for me to get into it now (15 years later), and I wouldn't say I enjoyed it until about 3/5 of the way in.
I didn't feel like my time was being well spent.
It's a long one and a time commitment, so I don't know if I'll ever get around to re-reading it, but I'm glad to have finished it once.
This was a very thorough novel, though I had trouble keeping pace with it because of some of the absurdly long descriptive paragraphs.
Adams is an amazing storyteller and his exploration of the human mind and religious reaction to a prophecied return are commendable.
I simply found it difficult to follow along after a while because the paragraphs got so absurdly long sometimes (there was one paragraph that spanned three pages) and often the bigger paragraphs were largely descriptive of the milieu...
there were large swaths of the chapters that you could skim over and still grasp the basic plot of the story by following dialogue.
