https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/659469.The_Hobbit
The story just looked like a simplified version of the original.
It has the essence of the story and the artwork is as it should be; it’s simple and not entirely serious.
It is the crux of the story; it is the anchor that embodies Tolkien’s idea of “a far greener country.” It had to be done right; it had to embody the simple, goodly and unrefined aspect of middle-earth.
Tolkien’s story is already alive when you read it.
This is Bilbo’s story and no others.
It is a story about a fearful Hobbit found the courage to trick a dragon and save his friends.
In a hole in the ground there lived a hobbit,Not a nasty, dirty, wet hole, nor yeta dry, bare sand hole: it was a hobbit hole, and that means comfort.A well illustrated version of the enchanting Tolkien classic! This graphical interpretation of The Hobbit provides a simple yet wonderful retelling experience."May the windunder your wingsbear you wherethe sun sailsand the moon walks."
The artwork is by David Wenzel, and J.R.R. Tolkien’s story was abridged and adapted by Chuck Dixon.
A new edition followed, for which David Wenzel made improvements and additions to the original edition, including a completely new cover design.Just as The Hobbit was an immediate success 80 years ago, so this adaptation has become one of the best-loved graphic novels of the last quarter of a century.
In a similar way, David Wenzel seems to have given a nod to Tolkien’s original water colours, in his choice of illustrative techniques and palette.
2.5* - okay, the art in this is beautiful and very detailed, itself deserves 5 stars for sure.But this just couldn't do the original story justice. I get that you can't put all of the original text in a graphic novel, but everything felt soooo rushed and I don't think I would get it all if I haven't read the Hobbit.
The Hobbit: Graphic Novel, Adapter: Chuck Dixon, Creator: J.R.R. Tolkien, Illustrator: David Wenzel, Adapter: Sean Deming
This was given to me by a friend for Christmas back in 92 it is wonderful ill version of The Hobbit very well adapted from Tolkien's book which I have read 10 times over last 40+ys .It can be hard to do justice to such a good book but this surprised me with its great art work it is Shame that the Sillmarlion or The Fellowship of the Ring, The Two Towers or The Return of the King in separate volume have not been done As love see how the Ents came out.
Not like the book definitely but it's "an adventure" to travel with Bilbo in the illustrated story. Characters are not exactly how I imagined them the first time I read the book, yet anyway, it's a great graphic novel. For all Middle-Earth fans, do not have second thoughts! :)
When I saw this graphic novel edition of the Hobbit, I was very curious as to how the story would play in the medium of the "comic".
However, a fundmental problem with the medium of comic books would definitely be visual approachability.
But when there's a linear approach to a story's plot, the graphic medium may not be the best way to handle it...because I found the actual act of reading this book a bit frustrating...having to re-read panels over again because the flow of dialogue and action were a bit confusing (ie, do I read this bubble first?
The kind of book you can read in a day but encapsulates some of the best sentiments of Thoreau, On The Road, and the kind of wonder that makes kids take off on bikes to explore the places beyond their hometown's city limits; to find Trolls frozen in stone, hidden and lost secrets in the deep woods waiting to be found, and new horizons yet to be discovered or imagined.
A book to read as a kid, but hopefully one you'll never be too old to enjoy even wrapped up and warm in your own hobbit hole.
It had been a while since I read The Hobbit and had quite forgotten a few things, so I figured it was time to dive in.The biggest problem with this graphic novel is the amount of words per page.
Comics almost never have multiple text boxes spread across a page, let alone a full novel's worth.
The Elves weren't how I imagined them, but still fit the overall stylistic themes of the book.Taking these two together, the graphic novel of The Hobbit in no way compares with Tolkien's masterpiece, but it's definitely worth the read.
Recommended for those interested in Tolkien, especially younger readers, but I would first recommend reading the novel before this one.
This graphic novel sticks very close to Tolkien's text, even including much of the narration, which is nice, but means it's not really an adaptation, like I was sort of hoping. As it says on the cover, it's "an illustrated edition of the fantasy classic". It took me a little while to get used to the artwork, but I thought lots of it was very well done -- it fits the comic tone of The Hobbit a lot better than Alan Lee's epic artwork, even if I prefer Alan Lee as an artist.
Major flashback to '89 thanks to an awesome dad.:)
A faithful rendition, though it naturally loses some of the richness of the book.Wenzel's artwork is certainly proficient, and I enjoyed the look of his watercolour technique but (you knew there was a but coming!) I was less enamoured of his characterisations.
Bilbo looked a little too homely - perhaps an indication of my own prejudice in regard to what a 'heroic protagonist' should look like - the elves not ethereal or other-worldly enough.
Gandalf and the dwarves were very good, though, and the illustration of Smaug on page 101 is magnificent.Despite my grumbles, this is a worthwhile adaptation and an enjoyable read.
3/5Hacía mucho tiempo que no leía un cómic y qué mejor que una adaptación de El hobbit para retomar la costumbre.
Además me parece que la historia está mal organizada, le dan mucha importancia (y muchas hojas) a detalles que no aportan nada a la historia y en cambio la Batalla de los Cinco Ejércitos se desarrolla en poco más de una página.
Me parece que se podría haber repartido mucho mejor, aunque fuese añadiéndole páginas.
Sin embargo yo tengo una debilidad por las historias de Tolkien y solo por eso y por las ilustraciones a doble página del final (que sí que merecen la pena), le pongo un 3 a esta adaptación que sin duda prefiero leer en boca del propio Tolkien.
Don’t get me wrong, when it comes to Tolkien, we all want the text-it’s great.
And the art here is simple and doesn’t pull away from the story.
At times it’s bit jumbled (when Bilbo initially gets separated from his dwarven companions in the mountain with the goblins) and it certainly isn’t overly compelling, but it works.
I’d like to see a version that has a more dramatic depiction such as the art by Donato Giancola who illustrated the cover of this edition.
قرأت الترجمة العربية للهوبيت من قبل وأحببت أن أقرأ هذه الرواية المصورة على سبيل المراجعة والاستمتاع بالرسوم.هذه أكثر رواية مصورة أخذت مني وقتًا في قراءتها رغم معرفتي بأحداثها. وهذا لأنها ليست "رواية مصورة" بقدر ما هي "الرواية مصورة"! فالرسوم هنا لا يكاد دورها يزيد عن لعب دور الخلفية لإعادة كتابة الرواية الأصلية كاملة. خط الكتابة صغير جدا حتى تكفي الصفحات لحشر كل التفاصيل حشرًا فوق الرسوم. استمتعت للغاية بلغة "تولكين" العظيمة التي استدرجتني الرواية المصورة لتذوقها وإدمانها.أحمد الديبأكتوبر 2015
I forgot to add this book; I read it recently because my boys were interested in it and I wanted to make sure it was not too complex or scary. I never read it as a child. I LOVED it! What a great story and well-written. My oldest son read it after me, and my second son is reading it now (as a matter of fact, as we speak!). They are begging to start the Lord of the Rings Trilogy next. Ordered the series in paperback yesterday . . . :)
I decided to read this book because I wanted to read it before the movie came out but couldn't be bothered reading the real thing.
After reading this I might actually read the real Hobbit novel.
The illustrations were amazing and you could tell a lot of effort had been put in to make it.My favourite quote from the book is when Gollum says "What iss he, my preciouss?" I like this quote because I really like Gollum and it's always awesome when he says "my preciouss".From this book I learnt that The Hobbit isn't long and boring like others have told me, although this could be because they read the real book.A character in this book that is cool is Gollum because he is the most well created character ever.
That took us straight to the point instead of wasting time rambling on about something that in all essence doesn't matter.
When the narrator said, "Dwarves are not heroes, but calculating folk with a great idea of valuing money," it was pointless and had no pertinence to the story.
It has a few words that are confusing and it takes a while to understand.While reading the book I wondered, "What does Gandalf look like?" or "Why is it so hard to find Rivendell?
It gets a little dragged out at times, but for the most part this book was great and I would recommend it to anyone with some free time.
It tells the tale of Bilbo Baggins and his adventure to the Lonely Mountain with a group of dwarves.
The rest of the tale tells of Bilbo’s cunning to rescue the dwarves from captivity and lead them to the mountain to slay the dragon Smaug and reclaim their rightful treasure.
By using the ring to disappear he is able to infiltrate the dragon’s lair and find its weakness.
The dwarves are able to return to the mines of the mountain that their ancestors once dwelled in and Bilbo returns to his hole in the hill.
This is a classic that I read recently (as a novel) and I fell in love with it, instantly!When I saw the graphic novel I knew I HAD TO READ IT TOO!!!It was amazing!Beautiful artwork, with lines from the original book itself.I think it is great for any kid who hates reading but loves comics and graphic novels. THIS will get them into reading actual books, trust me!I think that this is the second book (first is Harry Potter, obviously...) that I'm going to flip through whenever I feel bad, just to comfort myself, relax and smile...
Maravillosa adaptación a comic de ésta gran obra de Tolkien.Chuck Dixon mantiene el espíritu del autor original con diálogos y narración exactos, que junto al precioso dibujo en acuarela de David Wenzel, nos invitan a formar parte de ésta increíble aventura de Bilbo Bolsón, Gandalf y los enanos para recuperar el tesoro del malvado dragón Smaug en la Montaña Solitaria, con la fuerza de las imágenes. Imprescindible para fans de la Tierra Media.
I read this comics adaptation a bunch as a reluctant teen reader. As a comic, it is very text-heavy, with almost a paragraph of narration (carefully abridged from the original book) for each panel. It would have been nice to have twice as many pages to make it more readable and to improve the flow, but the reader is lucky to have even this many pages! Each page is masterfully crafted by David Wenzel. His ink and watercolor illustration perfectly brings to life the fantastical subject matter!
This was an okay read. I liked this better than the original novel as I found that the art added a lot to the story. The drawings were beautiful. I did get a bit bored about halfway through, just like when I read the original.
I originally read the Hobbit when I was 11 in my English lessons which was great as I had already been a fan of Lord of the Rings for a couple of years, so I was very excited to spot this in a charity shop!As I have been exposed to Peter Jackson's film creations for the formative years of my child/teenhood and spoilt by John Howe and Alan Lee's artwork, I did find the depictions of the characters a little difficult to get behind initially as I have a strong image in my mind already - but it was good to go back to the text and see how the artist had drawn their view of Middle Earth from Tolkien's story.As someone who on occasion dibble dabbles with paints and pencils (I'm not very good), I could really appreciate just how beautiful the artwork is and spent some time closely examining pages to see how elements were drawn.My only criticism of this graphic novel is that the whole book is extremely detailed and then it skims over the battle really quickly...
They travel through caves full of goblins, elf towns, towns of men and dark forests infested with spiders.
The dwarfs are on a mission to get their home mountain filled with gold and jewels back from a greedy dragon, but they encounter many difficulties on the way slowing their long journey even more.
The men demand some of the dwarfs gold, they refuse and hold their ground in the mountain.
the goblins had heard the death of the dragon and wanted the gold.
The men, elf's and dwarfs work together to kill the goblin army.
An adaptation that is very true to the original. Very.This is a great companion to Tolkien's novel, and the art is as atmospheric as you would expect. It's been a while since Middle Earth looked this good. That said, don't expect Alan Lee or John Howe - The Hobbit doesn't have quite the same epic, or dark, overtones as The Lord of the Rings.Recommended.
The little guy with big hairy feet goes on an adventure with creatures that have nads of excessive weight, and gets nads of his own. He traverses the world he knows to parts yet unknown, gets lost in an underworld of sorts, matches wits with the witless, and keeps a precious, endless, golden secret. He overcomes minions, and saves the ones who tease him and finds his place in the scheme of things. He overcomes amazing obstacles, and diligence his small size vanquishes the enemy. Life is an amazing thing.
The 4/5 star rating is based on my feeling that "the Hobbit" as a story is a five. However, I wasn't super crazy about this particular representation/presentation of the timeless Tolkein masterpiece. Hence the knock down to 4. I'm sure most of us hardcore Hobbit/LOTR fans will appreciate this format, to some degree, but NOTHING beats the original imho.
I really liked this book, I thought it was one of the better fictional books that I have read. I actually went and saw the movie not to long ago, it ran right alongside the story line. I would definitely recommend this book to the people that may have not of read it yet. This is a great book with some really interesting parts, I think it is a must read book.
