https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12936.Gathering_Blue
Instead of reading the book with white knuckles and wide eyes, thinking, "What the heck is wrong with these people???" I read it thinking, "Yeah, yeah, creepy village -- what's the twist?" I think the book might actually be better read if you haven't read "The Giver." However, I'm hesitant to say that, because if you're going to read one dystopic Lowry novel, you should definitely go for The Giver.
I don't think I would have had the patience for this novel as a young reader.If you think that reading about someone sitting around and weaving is absolutely thrilling, then this book is for you.
As a sequel - horribly disappointing.As a standalone - mildly interesting.Honestly, I was expecting a lot more...like the characters from book 1 to show up in book 2. I mean, there's a hint (and it's barely a hint) so I guess, it might be able to be classified as a companion novel.We follow Kira, a young teen with an almost magical artistic gift. She is forever hindered by a birth defect, causing lameness in one leg.  “Take pride in your pain," her mother had always told her. "You are stronger t
Women are little more than breeding stock and homemakers - A far cry from the orderly yet emotionless one we saw in the first book.
When she performed a vigil over her mother's body...the village women hatch a plan toseize newly orphaned Kira's land and build a pen for the toddlers.
The council (conveniently) needs a new artist to repair the singer's robe and were willing to take Kira in when she was desperate.
Only now that she's there, she begins to realize that perhaps she wasn't rescued at all...This book was a bit frustrating.
It didn't have the same magic as book 1 and my interpretation is colored by 
Today we will be focusing on Gathering Blue by Lois Lowry, which is her follow-up to The Giver, a popular modern classic that I know many of you loved.But first let's clear the room of any adults disguised as kids.
The fascinating thing to consider is that these important ideas about the necessity of certain feelings and bonds and the power of imagination are conveyed in two completely different settings within tales that remain strikingly similar in their thematic intentions.
If you want to know what the book is about, read the synopsis.
If you want to know what I thought of the book, read onWow, what a well written little story.
No outside characters that clog up the narrative.I did see one of the plot twist coming and wondered why the author took her sweet time about revealing it to the main character even though as I reader, I saw it coming.
Plus, I'd like some time to ruminate over this generally well told story.Not much happens, but it is still a very fascinating read.(I got an older copy from my local library and like the older/original cover better than the one pictured.)
In the course of the book, she begins to learn the art of dyeing thread different colors, except for blue, which nobody in her community knows how to make.
پدرش شکارچی ماهری بوده، اما شایع است، در یک حمله، توسط جانورها در جنگل دریده، و شکار شده است.
در جستجوی آبیها، داستانی فانتزی، و علمی تخیلی ست، از سری داستانهایی، با موضوع تلاش برای تغییر جامعه، که توسط لوئیس لوری، نگاشته شده است.
داستان نخست این سری «بخشنده» نام دارد.
In this book, she has created a Village that is hostile to young children, ranks a person by how many syllables are in their name, and casts out damaged individuals to the Forest.
That and upon discovering the mysterious captivity of Jo, another 'artist' (a young girl that beautifully sings), Kari begins to wonder what is going on.
In the meantime, Matt's eccentric character leads him into the Forest where he discovers Christopher (Kira's father).
The seed of hope may or may not flourish.Once I understood where Lowry was going with this book, I liked the plot.
The coat is embroidered with the people's past...everything that has happened from the beginning of the world to the destruction of the world before, and up to the present.Slowly, Kira begins to see the cracks in her world, the flaws, the unfairness, the lack of freedom she and everyone else has.This one has a sort of surprise like The Giver had with the “releasing.” It's a sort of slow-moving book and not a whole lot happens, so I'm glad I decided to listen to the audio version.
I love how her books are frustrating, but so bloomin’ wonderful at the same time.
The world which she imagines is rather terrifying.Gathering Blue follows Kira, as she grieves for her mother who has recently died.
Kira doesn’t give up easily and a talent that guides her through the tough times into interesting times ahead…Gathering Blue is different from The Giver because it’s nowhere near as intense.
Rating one over the other, I do prefer The Giver, but Gathering Blue is still a fantastic, wonderfully simple read.
Her writing is simple, to the point and it’s lovely to read.
Reading this book reminded me a lot of M.
Night Shyamalan's The Village (which a lot of people hated but is my favorite movie of his that I've seen!)--a village that seems just too good to be true, with a suspicious group of leaders and a question as to whether there really are monsters in the woods that are dangerous to the inhabitants.I found it best to go into this without expectations, since I loved The Giver and knew this was supposed to be a companion novel to it, I didn't want to let my love for the previous novel make this experience less enjoyable.
At the age of 63, I've read "The Giver" and have now read "Gathering Blue." I continue to be impressed.
This is a story that adults can appreciate, and I wonder what it would have been like to read this story when I was 12 years old.
If you've read "The Giver," the ending of "Gathering Blue" represents an interesting contrast.
In "Gathering Blue" it becomes clear for the first time that this is a drama set in the future, and is set on the planet Earth that we know.
But to get to that point you'll have to get through an unimaginative book which moves at a glacial pace, with events that we don't care about and people we don't care for - I can't possibly see how it could attract the attention of younger readers, let alone keep it.I've just read that Gathering Blue is a "companion" book to The Giver, and not a sequel, which could at least partly be an explanation for absolute lack of links between the two.
Going into this book knowing that it is the companion to The Giver did not do me any favors.
The problem is that The Giver is so darn good that any "companion" would not live up to it.
You do get the feeling that a lot more is going on (i.e. with the Council) than Kira knows about, but we never really learn about that either.
I read someone else's review that made a good point: in The Giver, we are connected to the community because Jonas is.
This was something Lowrey did wonderfully in The Giver and didn't manage in Gathering Blue.It was still a good book.
I thought it was a continuation of The Giver but it isn't.
I thought it would be in the same world as The Giver but I can't see any similarities.
This might be a great read for a young adult who hasn't read the giver or doesn't know it's part of that "series" but I didn't enjoy it at all and couldn't finish it.
For those who will condemn me for not liking a young adult book because it's trite and predictable, please keep in mind that this review is about how I enjoyed the book and I acknowledge that others might like it.
There were no mammals and birds allowed!But the world in this book is gritty and dirty.
Despite the fact that her world is dirty and gritty, the stakes just aren't as high for her as they are for Jonas.
She lives in a cushy place with hot water where Jonas was running away from a place of comfort to the unknown.
I don't see how she and Thomas are going to change things, but at least they're safe?Also, I really don't find it believable that Jonas and her marry in the 4th book.
Marrying Thomas makes a bit more sense.
Also the syllable thing DOES NOT MAKE SENSE.

A quick read, that is a little confusing as it didn't seem to relate to the first book in the series.Kira has just lost her mother and the only thing standing between her and the cruel women of the village.
But she does have one skill, one that may save her life.This world is very different from the one I entered with the first book in the series.
People are dirty.
People in the town were selfish, and got what they wanted even at the expense of their children.
Despite her naivety I really liked seeing through her eyes.
Both stories explore themes of physical and emotional pain, individual worth, communal memory, and the role of the governing body of a community -- all, amazingly through the eyes and experiences of children.I really love the main characters, Kira, Thomas, Matt, and Jo.
Like The Giver, Gathering Blue has strong spiritual overtones.
Its loving tones, its rich symbolism, and its hope for the future in Kira's world have begun to revitalize me and once again, as often happens during the time of Epiphany, when the days have begun to lengthen, I feel confident that the Inner Light will also return.
Gathering Blue is the second installment in author Lois Lowry's The Giver Quartet.
I was pretty confused going into this book as I just assumed the story would be picking back up at the point where The Giver ended.
But Gathering Blue is a different story with different characters.
Dystopian?
Yes. But it features a much calmer world than what I've become accustomed in the dystopian genre.
This story taught me that dreams of darkened alternate futures don't always have to be filled with dehumanizing technological advancements, man-made disasters, or class-based revolutions...
3/5Considering how much I loved the first book, I don’t really know how to feel about this one.The whole concept and idea was very interesting, the idea of an archaic society that at the same time is futuristic, where the people that are considered weak can’t be part of it.The thing that didn’t convince me was the plot itself.Kira is a girl with a “defect” for this type of society, but thanks to her talent in needlework, once her mother mysteriously dies because of a sickness, she is brought to work for the finest people of this society.There she meets Thomas and little Jo, who have too incredible talents.Throughout the book there are little peculiar things that got my attention, like that they can earn a longer name with time, that’s a cool thing to add.But plot speaking, it lost me a little from its middle till the end.Even if it’s very easy to follow, there are some parts that for me are still a mystery.The characters didn’t help to build the entire story, I found them interesting but with little personality.
It was interesting, but didn't hold my attention much, especially compared to The Giver. To be completely honest, it felt like half a book, and the first half only. It was unresolved and, to use a pun in line with the subject matter, had several loose threads.Besides that, Kira was rather boring as a protagonist. Even when she learned horrible things about her world, she remained content to stay and be a part of the system. I loved Matt and Thomas though.
Original Post:  Gathering Blue  at FLYLeF (www.flylef.com) with 3.5/5LOIS LOWRY CONTINUES to create a unique world in her second volume of The Giver quartet. In  Gathering Blue , she intricately weaves a society wrought with poverty, where savagery, greed, and deceit prevail, and the weak are mercilessly shunned and discarded.Kira, born physically flawed, is destined for abandonment in the Field of Leaving. By the fierce protection and love of her mother, she marginally escapes this heartless cu
When her mother unexpectedly falls ill, she finds herself orphaned and in danger of an envious woman named Veranda who seeks to steal her home and leave her to the “beasts.” Kira’s dangerous confrontation with Veranda brings her before the all-powerful Guardians – enforcers of their justice system.
But, she lacks the knowledge to create the missing color blue.
With the help of a mischievous boy named Matt and his little companion dog Branch, Kira at last finds the plant that will allow her to create the blue dye.
THE GIVER has an incredibly open ending, but the main conflicts were resolved and action was taken.
It would be like if THE GIVER ended after Jonas witnesses his father euthanizing the newborn.
If this was a community like that in THE GIVER, fine.
Why would people who leave their neighbors and children to die in the Field, and want to leave her there to die already, and who have a history of killing anyone that gets in their way, listen to anything she has to say or even care?
I really enjoyed this Book #2 of The Giver series. It has a little mystery, drama, and sweetness all put together in this one book. And it has enough of a secret at the end that it leaves the reader wanting to get to the next book (Messenger) to see what happens! Can't wait!
I think I liked the book and had a pleasant experience reading it, but after that my memories are obscured by all the discussions of themes, characters, plot and setting that we had in class, and so I don't think I really appreciated the storyline of this novel, or the experience of just reading it without having to analyse it from a literary perspective.Kira is a girl with a twisted leg who lives in a world where the weak are cast aside.
The dystopian world was truly fascinating to read about, because I saw so many similarities and connections between today's humanity and the people in the story.
The world building basically consisted of Kira living in village where everyone was mean and anyone that was seen as flawed, weak or reliant was rejected.
I would have preferred if the council had a different motivation for their controlling ways - a genuine reason for wanting a certain future to be weaved rather than them just being selfish and greedy for power.Overall, it was a pretty good read but would have been better if the protagonist and world building were more complex and unique.
Having loved the first book, The Giver, I couldn't wait to start reading Gathering Blue.
Well, Gathering Blue, didn't disappoint, but it didn't quite meet the high-mark of The Giver.
While The Giver was impossibly different, unreal and fascinating, Gathering Blue had more relatable circumstances in it.
Each of the characters manages to carve out life, a past, and a special uniqueness in only a few words.
Gathering Blue is a full, rich book, sparse with boring details and loaded with character and meaning.
I love seeing other people's imaginations.
I think the author quite successfully let us into her world and made us see it for what it was.
"Gathering Blue" is a refreshing dystopian novel with an engrossing plot and well-rounded characters.
Presenting a new kind of a dystopian society, it introduces the reader to a new kind of a society: it's not as progressive and sophisticated as those ones described in many dystopian books.
In this book Lois Lowry strayed off the beaten path and it made the book even more interesting to read.It was artistically written - really, not only dealt the narration with artistic issues throughout the book, but it itself had outstanding artistic power over the reader.It's not as great as "The Giver" (which is the first part of the trilogy), but good nonetheless.
A little bit weaker, but still very enjoyable.
4 StarsWell, I must say this was pretty good.We get to experience another enclave in this mysterious world, created in the first book of the series; The Giver.
Another settlement of higher council stiffs, lording over those less fortunate.
When special gifts are displayed, those gifted are chosen (stolen) to serve; and everything and everyone around them is expendable.
A few twists in the story, but the ending was not satisfactory.
Why choose that route??
Why not peace??
I am not saying the ending was as heart-breaking as The Giver, but not sure if it will work.
Not under the circumstances dealt.
5+++Recenzia completă: http://palarisme.ro/chef/carti/recenz...Seria lui Lois Lowry ar trebui să fie studiată la şcoală. Simbolistica este cutremurătoare. Făuritoarea de albastru dezvoltă temele din Darul lui Jonas, le transpune într-o viziune asemănătoare, fără să le caute o explicație sau o rezolvare. Un stil fluid, o lectură rapidă şi personaje magice. Mi-a plăcut foarte mult şi abia aştept al 3-lea roman, care le va lega pe primele două.
The second of its name, Gathering Blue, is one of the most useless and worthless piece of literature ever written by the profound author of The Giver; which is one of the best fiction book one could ever read.Gathering blue was to supposed to be the sequel of The Giver but the plot and the story and all the characters weren’t same.
The color blue is impossible to find in the region where Kira lived so that’s where the title of the book comes, Gathering Blue, where she gather the blue color.
