https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18045891-sharp-objects
“The face you give the world tells the world how to treat you.” There is something deeply unhealthy about this book. It's in the characters, in the story, in the relationships, in the sex, and just in the general mood of the novel. Reading this made me feel a little unwell, both physically and mentally, but I am glad I did. If you know me, you'll know I love complex characters with issues that feel raw and real, rather than melodramatic. The people in this novel are majorly fucked up, no one is
It's in the characters, in the story, in the relationships, in the sex, and just in the general mood of the novel.
The people in this novel are majorly fucked up, no one is without a dark past and everyone, it seems, has a horror story.The protagonist - Camille Preaker - was just thirteen when her sister died and fuelled by grief (amongst other things) Camille spent her teen years carving words into her flesh, covering almost every inch of her body with the marks of her pain.
So although this review is primarily for Sharp Objects, my favorite of Flynn's trio, let me go on record with Gone Girl (four stars, go read another of the zillion of reviews) and Dark Places (three stars, maybe too many narratives perspectives and too willing to wallow in the muck) as well, but I'm not writing reviews for those two.
This is the rare novel that both devoted and casual (yes, that sound you hear is me turning up my nose) readers will appreciate, as long as they can handle the psychological darkness.
Sure, after reading 5% of it I was like --a creepy story with the potential of giving me special nightmares, but by 90% I was likeWTF did I just read??All the characters were disturbing, especially even the children.
I hated the way she (view spoiler)[used Richard and John, her lack of reason, her irresponsibility when she took X with Amma, her 13 year-old half-sister (hide spoiler)].
Yes, Camille, I get that you're fucked-up, but you're 30, get a grip or see a therapist!Amma, Camille's 13 year-old half-sister, is a piece of work.It sure would, sweetie, it sure would...I hated her with a vengeance for countless reasons, but most importantly because she was a little bitch, in all the senses of the word.
Waves of her unresolved issues wash away further hopes of a challenging literary work as readers are practically dragged into her problems (not loved enough by her mother, not popular enough in school, not motivated enough in her work) and are subjected to the anguish of either feeling sorry for her or wanting to end her existence.
As disturbing details of the two murders resurface, readers are introduced to yet two more characters as equally unpleasant as the first.
When a second young girl goes missing in her home town, Wind Gap, MO, Camille’s fatherly boss sends her down to get the inside scoop.
"Qu'est-ce que c'est ?" Wind Gap is home to an array of characters left over from GCB, (Yes, I know it was published before the show) Stepford and Village of the Damned, and mix in a bit of Mommie Dearest and Cruella de Vil. Sounds like fun, no?
Having Camille carve words into her skin definitely seems over the top to me, a bit of literary license, but fine, ok.
As this was her debut, I'm happy to say I feel her later works show great improvement and a lot of strength.CW: self-harm, sexualization of children, murder, child abuse (I don't normally put content warnings under spoilers but this warning is so integral to the ending AND it's so specific that I don't want people attacking me for spoiling the book) (view spoiler)[Munchausen By Proxy (hide spoiler)]I think Gillian Flynn is a brilliant writer, but it was quite obvious that Sharp Objects was her debut.
Overall, I wasn't a fan of Sharp Objects, I think it just wasn't for me, but I'll continue to love Gillian Flynn's work.
*3.5/5*I felt like this book was way too slow paced for how short it was, and it sort of bugged me that the big reveal and explanation was left to the VERY end. It was like nothing nothing nothing BAM EVERYTHING. However, the ending was crazy and twisted and I loved it! I just wish that craziness had been spread out a bit, because when I finally got it, it was over too fast. Overall, a pretty good read.
Amy Adams is fantastic as Camille.Original reviewIf you ask me which words come into my mind first whenever I think of this book, my answer will be: nasty, dark, twisted, disturbing.In this rather traumatizing psychological thriller Camille Preaker, a troubled newspaper reporter, is sent to her home town to get the inside scoop on the murders of two preteen girls - both were strangled and had their teeth removed.
The small town of Wind Gap, in the fashion of Twin Peaks, is filled to the brim with dark secrets, and not the least of them is the twisted dynamics in Camille's own family...For me the most remarkable aspect of this book is that Gillian Flynn succeeds in creating a novel main characters of which are nasty women.
Ya know, the stuff of mediocre books which sometimes get passed to great directors, screen-writers, and actors, and then maybe turned into really good movies.
From the first couple of pages, maybe even the first, I acknowledged my ass-umptions.
I may be inflating the rating because my expectations were so low, but that doesn't change the fact that I will be reading another novel by this author because she isn't some hack; she just likes to slum a little, subject-wise.
It's pretty fucking good, to be honest.

I don’t have an excuse.I read Gillian Flynn's other book, Gone Girl, last year—and wasn’t a fan.
There’s been a fairly large amount of controversy surrounding the way Gillian Flynn, a self-proclaimed feminist, writes her female characters.You have those who think it’s problematic all of her female characters are such awful people: Like The Huffington Post and others.And then you have those who believe all her characters are horrible people, and that feminism means allowing for female villains and anti-heroes:  Including Flynn herself.
Disturbing story. Disturbing characters. This book will make you feel uncomfortable, that's what Gillian Flynn does best!I'm not sure I loved it but it's definitely the best written thriller I've read so far this year... still only getting 3.5 stars though!I did suspect the right people but the twists were still... well disturbing!
Update - NEWS ABOUT the HBO mini-series of "Sharp Objects".
The book or the series?Amy Adams was outstanding!!!
The ending in the HBO series -- was ......................'creepy' as can be!!!OLD REVIEW:I've had both "Sharp Objects" and "Dark Places" for years....but, hey, I'm slow.
I picked "Sharp Objects" to read first when I heard Amy Adams is going to be the leading actress in a drama series.
I can already see Amy Adams playing the role of reporter Camille Preaker....who returns to her small hometown to cover the murders of two preteen girls.
This book could have been called "DARK SHARP PLACES AND OBJECTS"!!!
July can’t come soon enough!This is the story of Camille, a journalist who was sent to her hometown to report on the murder of a young girl and how it relates to the previous murder committed.
Camille, whose own sister died when she was young, can’t help but relate to the cases and question her own past.
You think your family is dysfunctional… and then you are introduced to Camille’s and suddenly you thank the skies that your own mother and sister are not so damn creepy.
Yes, it kept me guessing and interested, but that’s because I was fascinated with Camille’s family, not the murder case per se.
Surely, she couldn't have hoodwinked hordes of unsuspecting readers into giving her books such high ratings.So I had decided I'd devour Gillian Flynn's entire oeuvre starting with her first published work.
I had high hopes for Flynn's first published novel.Sharp Objects comes off as a classic case of trying too hard.
is that even a real word?) And to heap on to the negatives, Flynn rushes us through the scenery, the murders, the facts with such alarming speed that few things get time enough to make a powerful impact.The eerie, secluded little town of Wind Gap never comes alive for the reader.
And some women aren't made to be daughters.” ― Gillian Flynn, Sharp ObjectsThis is one of the darkest, most disturbing books I've ever read.
I had read Dark Places and Gone Girl and, of course, thought I could handle Sharp Objects, the Gillian Flynn debut.
I always am!I know some readers are all, "but, I don't really like the characters, I can't root for anyone..." Ok, then this book isn't for you.
But, I'm telling you, Gillian Flynn is a master at blueprinting the human psyche into a living breathing character that you won't soon, if ever, forget.
and then it just sat on the shelf for ages and one day i read the description of it somewhere.
and it's all "whore" on her ankle and "pain" on her heart or whatever.(which is not on the back cover copy, but is right up there in the goodreads.com description) and i thought - "oooh you are so edgy and shocking!!" and i rolled my eyes and figured i would just never read it.
alas, its actually pretty good; and not cheesy-edgy.
it can be read in a day, no problem, and it features the most unhealthy mother-daughter relationship i've ever read.
Very clever writing from Gillian Flynn.When two girls are abducted and killed in Missouri, journalist Camille Preaker is sent back to her home town to report on the crimes.
This sat on my bookshelf for over a year, what a waste, it was one of my most memorable reads of the last few years.Camille, who is a Journalist is sent back to very small town USA where she grew up to get the juice on a story of young women going missing and turning up dead - with their teeth pulled out.
Sentence fragments can be fun if you're in the mood for things like "A belly.
He was suddenly standing next to me." (Not exact quotes, but pretty close.) I wasn't in the mood, and it was irritating.
I found the scene where she was 12 years old and in someone's hunting shed, full of dead, bloody animals and porn irritating.
I get that I was supposed to think "oh wow what a messed up home life she has to be masturbating in a shed full of dead animals", but instead I thought " I have no interest in this, or her."
Motivo por el cual estuvo ingresada en un hospital psiquiátrico.Trabaja como reportera y se ve obligada a ir a su pueblo de infancia a cubrir un reportaje de una niña asesinada y otra desaparecida.
Es realmente perturbadora la relación que Camille tiene con su madre, un personaje con demasiadas capas, extraña y perturbada, como la mayoría de los personajes de esta historia.Es una historia oscura y el final es totalmente inesperado y retorcido.
That is why she was admitted to a psychiatric hospital.She works as a reporter and is forced to go to her hometown to cover a murdered girl and another missing.
I was impressed with the writing of this book and understand why this author has hit it off worldwide.Camille is a very troubled young woman, a mediocre journalist and a recovering cutter.
The people in the town seem to be a mess, the teenagers horrible, and let’s not forget Ms. Horrible little sister.
For as much as she was troubled herself, she did try to help and nurture her in some way.
I really did love John, the out of town Detective Richard and most of all the lovely Camille who it seems was facing her own redemption by the end.
Gillian Flynn's writing in Entertainment Weekly has always been a notch above, and her first novel is no disappointment.What's remarkable about this book is that it focuses on some of the most damaged and interesting women I've ever seen in fiction.
Strong women in fiction usually means one of three things:1) Ass-kickers in fantastic outfits that talk, think and fight like men (think Tarantino)2) Delicate little homebodies with surprising reserves of strength when needed (think Jane Austen)3) Raging bitches (think Meryl Streep in The Devil Wears Prada)What's great about the women here is that they don't really fit into any of the above categories.
Great book.
“Sometimes if you let people do things to you, you're really doing it to them.” It's freaky and twisted. It's terrifying and compelling. You'll sit down, grab the book and read it until you've reached the last page. No kiddings here. I read this in one sitting, no pause for water, no pause whatsoever. It'll creep you out and fascinate you and you'll connect with the story on many levels. I did. I connected with the character and I'm still having nightmares about it.By all accounts, this is a Gi
Having read all of her books now, I can safely say that she has a very dark mind.
In comparison with Mrs. Flynn's two other books, whose characters are more tough and more independent and sure of themselves and are just bad bad people, this one pictures a character who every reader can connect with and feel for and maybe identify themselves with.Camille Preaker is a reporter, coming back from a psych ward she throws herself at her job.
People there turn their heads around when something bad is happening, denying having ever seen it.
Usually I like having this sort of character in my books, but sometimes reading a book just for the sake of getting engrossed in the storyline and disentangling all the threads running throughout is all you need!
I understand that this is merely Camille's opinion and I can't hold that against the book itself but the implication of it just grated on me.That actually sounds like I had a lot of issues… but I still enjoyed the story a lot!!
This book was so stupid and hysterical and I loved every second of it.
Grippin’ book!  WHERE EVERYTHING STARTED Gillian Flynn is one of the most worldwide famous and popular authors nowadays with best-selling novels like Gone Girl and Dark Places, along with the short story The Grownup, but her debut novel was this one, Sharp Objects.Flynn’s style features broken characters, nasty acts, gruesome crimes and plot twists, showing a face of American contemporary towns (not matter if they’re ficticious) that it’s not so common portraited……and a truly grippin’ narrative
Gillian Flynn is one of the most worldwide famous and popular authors nowadays with best-selling novels like Gone Girl and Dark Places, along with the short story The Grownup, but her debut novel was this one, Sharp Objects.Flynn’s style features broken characters, nasty acts, gruesome crimes and plot twists, showing a face of American contemporary towns (not matter if they’re ficticious) that it’s not so common portraited……and a truly grippin’ narrative.Maybe in this first book, and due precisely being her initial publication, I didn’t feel her attempts for plot twisting as successful as in her following works.
Τα αιχμηρά αντικείμενα σκίζουν συναισθήματα,σχέσεις,σκεψεις,δεσμούς ιερούς και μη αφήνοντας ανεξίτηλα σημάδια και εμπειρίες ζωής! Όσο και να εξωραΐζεται το κακό παραμένει πανταμεσα στις ψυχές και την κατάλληλη στιγμή στις κατάλληλες συνθήκες δείχνει το πραγματικό του πρόσωπο! Το ψέμα η εικονική ανθρωπιά και αλληλεγγύη,η τοξική χαμογελαστή παράνοια προσπαθούν διακαώς να μας πείσουν για επίπλαστες ανθρώπινες σχέσεις ! Τελικά οι άνθρωποι που δεν αγαπήθηκαν και διαταράχθηκαν ψυχικά απο αυτη την έλλε
Τα αιχμηρά αντικείμενα σκίζουν συναισθήματα,σχέσεις,σκεψεις,δεσμούς ιερούς και μη αφήνοντας ανεξίτηλα σημάδια και εμπειρίες ζωής!
Όσο και να εξωραΐζεται το κακό παραμένει ¨παντα¨μεσα στις ψυχές και την κατάλληλη στιγμή στις κατάλληλες συνθήκες δείχνει το πραγματικό του πρόσωπο!
Το ψέμα η εικονική ανθρωπιά και αλληλεγγύη,η τοξική χαμογελαστή παράνοια προσπαθούν διακαώς να μας πείσουν για επίπλαστες ανθρώπινες σχέσεις !
Τελικά οι άνθρωποι που δεν αγαπήθηκαν και διαταράχθηκαν ψυχικά απο αυτη την έλλειψη καταντούν τραγικά πρόσωπα ανελέητα και ανάλγητα αλλα και τόσο θλιβερά και αξιολυπητα ώστε νιώθεις να τα συμπονάς.
Εξαιρετικό βιβλιο συναρπαστική πένα που γράφει "αγια" και "αμαρτωλά ", "παρανοϊκά"και "σοφά" "εξωφρενικά ιδιόμορφα " και "εκπληκτικά συνηθισμένα".
BEST GILLIAN FLYNN BOOK.
(Just kidding I'm probably going to reread it in one absolute second but will it be as good as this book?
Any time the protagonist gets into a conversation with any human person it's a goddamn treat because everyone is so interesting and confusing and you just want to know everything about everyone!!!Flynn also has this fantastic crazy writing style that you feel and picture so hard.
And I'm not even mad about it.Bottom line: How is this Gillian Flynn's first book???
It was a super easy and fast read with a solid plot and interesting characters.
In fact, I think the main character Camille is my favorite one out of all the ones Gillian Flynn has created over the years.
Some actions of hers seemed a bit too hectic (?) for me though; I couldn't understand why the author decided to write some (to the plot completely unnecessary ) scenes involving her in there.
But maybe I'm just too much of a prude to believe that someone like her would actually exist...The topic that gets dealt with is very interesting, but also very heavy.
Eek. This book was twisted and eerie, it was very good. A true page turner.
