https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/151928.The_Eye_in_the_Door
As previously Barker does an excellent job of weaving fact and fiction together.We have moved on to early 1918 and the war is still in the balance.
Noel Pemberton Billing (aviator and would be MP) was convinced that homosexuality was infiltrating society and damaging the war effort.
Barker weaves all of this into the novel very effectively via Prior and a new character Manning and builds the feeling of paranoia very effectively.Again the descriptions of the nightmares, the effects of “shell-shock” and its varying treatment are very effective and one remains in no doubt about the horrors of war.
Eye takes a closer look at the political and historical background to the period of World War I, specifically, what was happening on home turf.
World War I was the war that feared it would be torpedoed by loose zips.The majority of the story focuses on Billy Prior, now liberated from Craiglockhart and trying to resume a normal life in one of the many ministries which sprung up, Big Brother style, between 1914 and 1918.
I still didn't believe it, but the more I thought about it the more I thought, yes.' Mac was speaking intently, and yet almost indifferently, as if he didn't care whether Prior listened or not.
What else could I do?" And then I remembered a story I heard, about a man who found a snake half dead and nursed it back to life.
Why did you bite me?" And the snake said, "But you knew I was a snake."In war time nurturing men are expected to turn into snakes.
The first volume, whose two main characters were fictional portrayals of the real people Siegfried Sassoon and Dr. W.H.R. Rivers, included a third important character, the fictional Billy Prior.
The Eye in the Door continues the interwoven stories of Rivers, Sassoon, and Billy Prior.
A major theme of the book, Prior's intense and indiscriminate bisexuality, is effectively contrasted with Rivers' tepid asexuality and Sassoon's pure homosexuality."Barker presents a nuanced at detailed treatment of the psychological, political and professional life of Billy Prior, who seems to have become the central character..
I'm not even sure if I could be bothered to finish this book.The main character, Billy Prior, is an Everyman.
He is an officer of working class origin, shipworker father - domestic service mother, bisexual, in a relationship with a munitions worker, suffers shellshock, was a boy prostitute, picks up brother officers for casual sex, lived on the same street as the woman who tried to assassinate Lloyd-George...Any one of those would have made for an interesting character in a WWI setting.
The old woman, and former neighbour, in prison for an attempted assassination of Lloyd George and that Prior was sent into question her,.
"If you say, "I think it's morally wrong for young men to be sent out to slaughter each other," God help you." Very little has changed since I read, reviewed, and hung on to Regeneration for dear life. I still live at home, am mistaken for a fifteen-year-old more often than not, and pace myself through books at an obscene rate. The only difference is that I can lay claim to a few more labels: English graduate, bisexual, job holder. In the eyes of many, since I achieved this at twenty-five-years
The only difference is that there is a greater propensity to set certain events in stone as with the grandiose title of It Could Not Have Happened Until Now. Reading Regeneration three years ago set yet another ball rolling to the point that I can no longer term its sequel a favorite, but I still deeply appreciate how utterly well crafted this is: raw when I need it to be, suppressed when I need it to be, as the chemicals of my brain have yet to be balanced out by a full time job with health insurance.
The second installment of the Regeneration trilogy presents one the most complex psychological portraits I’ve ever read, made more complex by the fact I had to read it through one half-closed eye because of the occasional graphic depictions of gay sex.
But really the novel is an exploration of duality, both between people and roles, and within one’s own self — soldier/pacifist, working class/officer, doctor/patient, heterosexual/homosexual, sane/insane.
While I admit the novel is in many ways a triumph, I didn’t like it at all and even had a hard time following it in places (which is sort of unusual).
The Regeneration Trilogy: I read these books in the late '90s, after Ghost Road was first published. I was in love with the British war poets of WWI at the time and this fit right in. I don't remember many details, but these books were great reads. Very athmospheric, accessible and captivating main characters, I suffered with them every step of the way.P.S.: The movie is also very good.
So the book may not have such emotional tension as the first part of the trilogy, but certainly we are driven to very interesting thoughts and we are further deepening on the consequences of the war.Στο δεύτερο μέρος της τριλογίας αφήνουμε για λίγο το ψυχιατρείο για να ασχοληθούμε με τις ομαδικές ψυχώσεις που κυριαρχούσαν στην Βρετανία τα τελευταία χρόνια του πολέμου.
I feel as fractured as the soldiers Barker writes about: I can't hold onto anything with any sense of satisfaction.The process of regeneration continues: we re-encounter the same characters from the previous novel who are in various stages of recovery from their wounds, both physical and psychological.
Like Owen in Regeneration, Beattie makes an almost-cameo-appearance, yet she is the one who carries the novel.) It struck me in reading these lines, that Barker knew far more about women's psyches than she did about men's: it would have been Barker's crowning glory if she had written about war time women, rather than the soldiers she paints so nebulously.
I found my appreciation of this enhanced by my having recently read To End All Wars: A Story of Loyalty and Rebellion, 1914-1918.
It's interesting how one's body of reading enhances the next book.The title comes from the inside of a prison door.
Inmates know they are constantly being watched, and this is a particularly apt analogy for the political prisoners.
The government was watching them, spying on them to catch them at anything amiss and locking them up.The body of the story is the return of Dr. Rivers and his treatment of soldiers from the front.
Each focuses on a different set of characters in the circle of patients of psychiatrist William Rivers, a real man who treated soldiers damaged by their combat experiences in World War 1.
This one concentrates on a complex fictional character Billy Prior, treated for what we would today call post-traumatic stress.
The theme of Rivers' moral struggles of treating people so they can return to being cannon fodder is less a theme for this tale than the pathologies in society brought out by the war.
The transformations of class discrimination during the social upheavals wrought by the war is another fascinating theme brought out well in the novel.
I really enjoyed Regeneration back in 2008 and picked up the second in the trilogy a while back.
It's quite different in style and approach than the first but equally well written (winning the 1993 Guardian Fiction Prize).
The focus has shifted to Billy Prior who makes for an interesting character promoting sympathy, intrigue and slight disgust all at the same time.
The conchies and homosexuals in particular are suffering in the public eye and Billy is stuck somewhere in-between as we revisit the 47000 and the Cult of the Clitoris amongst other historical events (Barker provides some relevant historical background as an afterword, making for some interesting reading).
In the second book, Billy Prior, a patient in Craiglockheart in the first volume, is working for Army intelligence as his asthma is deemed too bad to be sent back to France.
When he starts working on a case of someone he used to know when he was a child, a woman accused of plotting to kill the prime minister, he finds the two sides of his personality come into conflict.
The case that Prior takes on, the taking down of Spragge while trying to save his old friends, is a sad testament to the treatment of the conscientious objecters of the day.This isn't the sort of book that you can actually enjoy, but it is an interesting read.
Despite public campaigns against dissent, fissures of doubt are opening up all around the book’s unforgettable main character, Billy Prior.
(The inspiration for Beattie Roper was the real-life Alice Wheeldon, a tragic victim of wartime injustice.) It is on a visit to his imprisoned friend that Prior first encounters “the eye in the door”.
Many of the characters in The Eye in the Door find their lives chilled by the real-life public campaign against homosexuals led by MP Pemberton Billing.
Like Major Lode, like the weird painted eye of a prison cell, Billing’s campaign is both comically deranged yet terrifying.
Unlike Regeneration, which can function as a stand-alone novel quite apart from its place as the first in the trilogy, I think both the subsequent books require the knowledge of the characters and the circumstances that comes with Regeneration.
The Western Front only makes a physical appearance in the final novel - this is a trilogy about the mental scars of war, about the pressures of government and politics during war, about the evolution of mental health care, about sexuality and national pride.
I think this is my favourite book of the trilogy.
His slipping into fugue states, and the resulting loss of memmory, adds a tinge of fear and menace to the story that makes me more emotionally involved.
Second, I enjoy Barker's handling of betrayal in a torn society.
Third is the wonderful way in which Barker deals with homosexuality in WWI-era Britain.
When we hear Manning's story of the soldier slipping into the mud of a foxhole, it makes me feel weak and privileged in my relatively safe late 20th Century society.This book challenges me, and I love being challenged.
In this, the second volume of Barker's Great War trilogy, she continues the stories of Dr. Rivers, Siegfried Sassoon, and Billy Prior, introduced in Regeneration.
In the current volume, themes hinted at in the first novel are made explicit, including the homosexuality and bisexuality of some characters, class divisions, and the antagonism of many in the war-stressed British population toward "conchies," pacifists, and other opponents of British war policy.
The dehumanizing effect of war on the British civilian population is as much a theme here as is the barbarity of trench warfare for the soldiers.
Because this book revolves primarily around an entirely nonfictional character, Billy Prior, rather than some of the historically present characters like Sassoon, Graves, and others, it definitely reads more like a piece of fiction than Regeneration did.
Nonetheless, Prior was in the first book one of the more interesting characters - perhaps because Barker has more license with an entirely fictional character - so it was interesting to hear more of his story and to discover how he's coping after he leaves the hospital.
What astounds me the most about this book, and is true as well of Regeneration, is how true the voice feels and sounds.
OK, so I already think Bat Barker is super-amazing, and I've read Regeneration about four times, but I have to admit, I never cared as much for Prior as I think I was supposed to.
Well, not nothing exactly - I think there's one more sex scene when Sarah visits - and there's quite a lot of talk about his sexuality without there actually being sex.
And I think it works very well to establish Prior as a highly sexual person.
And the plot is interesting, and there are enough Sassoon-and-Owen references to keep my inner history-geek happy (though Rivers manages that quite well, along with Robbie Ross et al.) Also, fuck yeah for morally ambiguous protagonists.

An excellent second book in trilogy following on from Regeneration.
Really enjoyed development of Roper character and the book explored the complexities of his different personalities.
As previously, excellent psychological insight into shell shock, post trauma, etc Really interesting from historical perspective and real events.
Views regarding pacifism and sexuality were fascinating.
I felt really sorry for Roper and it will be interesting to see what happens in The Ghost Road.
Sarah seems to really care about him and hope that this relationship continues.
Considerable suspense with regard to which side Roper is on.
Am not sure that he knows the answer to that either.


After reading the 2nd volume, I'm thinking that the war wounds were so profound that they must exist as scars even in our generation.
Dr. Rivers doesn't think Prior should imagine a monster where he has gaps in his memory.
But, should he?This story is so gripping.It had me so tense about Prior's blackouts!
I thought there was going to be more to the process of (view spoiler)[integrating his dissociative personality (hide spoiler)].
But then the book ended!
Prior has to know but seems so reluctant to believe that (view spoiler)[he betrayed Mac (hide spoiler)].
I expect these things will be important in the sequel.And Dr. Rivers!
Things are up in the air with him.
On to The Ghost Road, and if it doesn't tie up these character arcs, I might cry!
'Skivers, shirkers, conches and pacifists' were blamed for the downturn in national fortunes.Pat Barker sets time and place so well in all her novels, and nowhere better than in this wonderfully evocative story of the Great War in which she identifies so many different nuances and gradations within the ranks of her working class subjects as they come to terms with physical deprivation and mental suffering.
I only discovered these books recently, and was blown away by the standard of writing and treatment of the issues in Regeneration… The Eye in the Door follows through on this; I get the impression that Eye is based slightly less on biographical fact, though is none-the-less important for that.
There are so many issues of war woven through Barker’s stories that coming out of each book is rather like emerging from the trenches; or at least from River’s consultation room, where one’s psyche is stripped to the ground.
Billy has no qualms about his bisexuality, but what he does have a problem with is the increasing frequency with which he experiences loss of time which he can't account for, and although Dr. Rivers (a main protagonists in the first book) tries to convince him that he doesn't necessarily turn into a Mr. Hyde when he loses track of his actions, Billy fears the worst.There were plenty of interesting themes in this novel, though I can't say I enjoyed it as much as I did the first one, which instantly became one of my all-time favourites.
Also, having read another book in the series, I can see now that the author is deliberately choosing to write about the war entirely through the eyes of people away from the front - it is the effect of the war she is exploring, not the experience.
I don't know now why this threw me so much in the first book - now that it seems so obvious - but I guess most of what I've read relating to WWI has thrown you directly into the battles, on the ground, as they happened.
