https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/131187.Raising_Demons
A few years ago my sister broke her jaw. (She fell off a ladder; don't ask.) Among many other things, this resulted in one of my all-time favorite photos of the two of us—this is what I texted my folks at 4am to let them know she was okay. So good, right? Anyway, I unearthed this book from the very bottom of a very large stack as a possible candidate to read to her while she was recovering from surgery. And it was such such such a perfect choice! With the possible exception of  The Amazing Macke
It's a book of stunning minutia, where the seemingly simplest things—a Little League game, getting a new dog, making a family dinner, finding a missing sneaker—really just bubble with life and love and joy and fun.
Shirley Jackson has just got an impeccable ear for speech and an unsurpassable sense of story, rendering with stunning deftness detailed conversations with her children (in all their non-sequiturian glory) and the many hilarious episodes in her family's day-to-day small-town life.
I mean, it's a memoir by a fifties housewife about life with her family in a small town in Vermont.
Oh my gosh, there's no better expression for this book than just total freaken absolute BUNDLE OF JOY.
This book is just a bundle of damn joy, man.
"Raising Demons" is, in fact, Shirley Jackson's title for a book about raising her children.
And if you know anything about Shirley Jackson, you might wonder what in heaven's name is in store for you here.
Because she can be creepy as hell.
Which I love, I mean that's what we go to Shirley Jackson for, I'm not saying I wouldn't have been pleased if it HAD been creepy.
Only a mystery writer as gifted as Jackson could deal in the elements of horror and make them so funny -- the mania for building clothespin dolls with a friend as a child -- the little old relative "a thousand years old" who lives in an antique cottage on a rose-covered hill, attended by a bevy of snow-white cats -- the children's dubious brushes with the local educational system -- the local mothers' growing obsession over the progress of the town's Little League season, which affected everyone except, thank heaven, the players themselves.My advice is that the curious start their reading with the predecessor volume (LIFE AMONG THE SAVAGES) and then pick up RAISING DEMONS if the mood strikes.
Raising Demons is a seamless sequel to Life Among the Savages and just as good.
When the book ends, you want to cry because these people have become so important in your life that you can't imagine not hearing about the next story, the next hilarious good time.Life Among the Savages and Raising Demons are so distinctly different from Jackson's most famous works (Hill House, Castle, The Lottery) in terms of genre that one cannot help imagine what vast bibliography Shirley Jackson could have written had she not been taken from the world so soon.
Just like Life Among the Savages, I did not want this to ever end. I laughed out loud so many times and I now feel like Shirley is an old friend - the absolutely hilarious, witty, clever kind that is so rare to find.
Re-read 3/26/17: Upped the rating to four stars, because I liked it better this time around, and because for some reason I was thinking of it in terms of how much her children must appreciate having these memories told so wonderfully.
Even the stories where they come off sounding awful.7/13/13: Much as I enjoyed this, I didn't like it as much as Life Among the Savages, probably because as Jackson's kids got older, it was increasingly difficult to ignore the fact that they're either brats or Jackson isn't a very good parent.
Still, there are some excellent moments here, particularly her description of the new house they buy, her oldest son Laurie's one year in Little League, and the wild antics of their pets.
There's a scene in season one of "Mad Men" in which little Sally Draper is playing spaceman by wearing a dry cleaning bag over her head and entire body.
When mom Betty sees her, she's angry...because "if my clothes from that dry cleaning bag are on the floor of my closet, you're going to be a very sorry young lady." This book is thrilling to read for its depiction of mid-century parenting, things you can actually get arrested for today.
Three year old Sally wanders to a neighbor's house to get breakfast when mom sleeps in and doesn't cook, then wanders back later.
I absolutely loved this sequel to Living Among the Savages. Still just as charming and funny, I loved seeing a glimpse into the life of one of my favorite authors. Her stories are still told with the same wry wit and chilling grasp on human nature. I will definitely reread these!
This is a review of both Life Among The Savages and Raising Demons, as I read a volume that had both in it.Usually I read to escape from life and the problem I had with this book is that I was reading about housework and it's mundanity, raising children and it's frustrations - and then I'd put the book down to do exactly that in-real-life.
Now, I like lists, but I can hardly sit down and read a book composed of them- they'd have to be extremely thrilling, riveting lists.
I remember trying to read Jackson's Life Among the Savages and this book in my 20s and then putting them aside unfinished, because I didn't perceive any EDGE.
I've now returned to the two books, and discovered a little bit of edge - it's just discernible but it's there.
Though some could probably read the entire book as lighthearted and quaint, I saw some seething anger and resentment peeking out under the patina of sweetness and incorrigible-yet-charming children.
I still don't know anything about Jackson's actual life beyond these two books - what was really going on and who was she?
Shirley Jackson's follow-up to Life Among the Savages covers the middle years of her children's lives.
The family moves to a larger home, acquires more cats and dogs, while Shirley learns the mixed emotions that come with being a faculty wife.
Once again I was amazed at the amount of humor and true affection for children that she brought to this further account of her family life.
Her four children are as precocious as ever and she brings their characters to full life, especially in the way she has recorded their speech.
It was so moving that I wanted to start a family all over again.
Being the sequel to Life Among the Savages, Raising Demons suffers a bit from a sense of been there done that; most of the best of her family stories are in the previous book, and with two of Jackson's four kids being much older here, the material just doesn't have those same sparks (she was a master at capturing the peculiar rhythms and habits of young children in particular).
In these and other stories Jackson captures domestic life with great humor, charm, and perception.
To anyone familiar with any of Shirley Jackson's novels of horror, or her tales of psychological disintegration, or at least her most famous spine-chilling short story, "The Lottery," the notion that the same author penned two light-hearted book-length domestic memoirs might seem preposterous.
Both Life Among the Savages and Raising Demons are thoroughly enjoyable on their own merits.
Demons is the more seamless of the two; it's obvious that from Savages she learned how to make the joins between previously-published magazine essays less noticeable.
It's a series of sincere and genuinely funny stories about her kids and her husband and her pets, back in the late 1940s or early 1950s.
Baseball and cooking and running a household and tree houses and paper dolls and cats and dogs and somehow relating all of this in a fashion that had me laugh out loud probably once per story.Nothing in here will change your life but it's such unaffected and pleasant reading that I feel obligated to recommend it next time you want something soothing to read before bed.
I could not be-LIEVE how funny this was.
This was an incredible, insightful, highly personal family memoir.
I didn't realize that I should have read 'Life Among the Savages' first, as it is chronologically antecedent.
But that failure didn't diminish my enjoyment.
I knew Shirley Jackson was one of the most gifted writers in the horror genre, establishing much of the modern tone and possessing one of the most distinctive, poetic, and lyrical voices the genre has ever seen.
But I am *flabbergasted* at how hilarious and poignant and evocative this set of essays about her family life is.
So highly recommended.
These books are over too soon.
I wish Shirley Jackson had written more of them, and that her children had written a follow-up compendium so that readers would know what they are doing now...
This was the second of these books (My Life Among the Savages was the first) but I actually found this one even more satisfying.
I couldn't read it on the train because it made me laugh out loud too often, so I had to read it in the privacy of my home where I could give myself over fully to giggling.
These are out of print now, but I wish someone would reissue them.

While it has some of the same problems as the first book (with never-ending sentences and some superfluous paragraphs that ramble), I liked this one even more since the children were a bit older. It was the perfect nostalgic depiction of a (semi-chaotic) storybook 1940s/1950s household, full of kids and pets and one rather put-upon husband.
Jackson, writing about her four kids, husband, and small Vermont town, is hilarious. Although nothing in this book can top the disappearing pillow sequence in Life Among the Savages.
In the middle of the fifth inning, when people began murmuring in the bleachers, and counting every strike, I went up over the top of the hill and down the other side to where there was a tree and some grass and I sat there; I could not see the ball field, but I could hear the umpire's calls and, then, the excitement rising.
The first winter we were in our new house, when Laurie used to go sledding on this hill, he could stand just about where I was sitting now, and see our back porch, and I used to signal him that it was time to come home by hanging a dish towel over the porch rail; I could not see the back porch now because the trees were still thick.
The writing is everything in this collection of stories of domestic life in the fifties. In a lesser woman's hands, it could have been cloying, twee garbage. Jackson's magic pen turns stories of a malfunctioning refrigerator or a lost sneaker into art. You never lose sight of the fact that this mother of four, who cooks and cleans and shops and chauffeurs her non-driving husband, would quite possibly chuck the whole thing for a solo apartment in NYC if the opportunity arose. And who could have blamed her?
98% of the book is chuckle worthy, an all-too-real take on stay-at-home parenthood. And then you get to the last chapter...and basically die crying, because having kids is the ultimate experience. I know that statement will piss off some people who don't have children, and I'm not saying that everyone should make that choice. But if you do, it becomes the most real thing that ever happens to you. The last chapter expresses that perfectly, and I defy you not to cry!
So wry, funny and charming. I kept re-reading individual sentences because they were so perfectly written
than any author I can think of.By the Saturday before Labor Day a decided atmosphere of cool restraint had taken over our house, because on Thursday my husband had received a letter from an old school friend of his named Sylvia, saying that she and another girl were driving through New England on a vacation and would just adore stopping by for the weekend to renew old friendships.
My husband gave me the letter to read, and I held it very carefully by the edges and said that it was positively touching, the way he kept up with his old friends, and did Sylvia always use pale lavender paper with this kind of rosy ink and what was that I smelled - perfume?
The further adventures of Shirley Jackson and her family as they move to yet another large house and proceed to fill that with odds and ends, lose things, have neurotic episodes with the pets and with each other, and generally experience chaos.
I love the way she writes these chronicles, it's almost one long breathless story that just goes on and on.
A highlight here is the trip to New York, in which her daughter Sally (who can do magic and disappears for lengths of time to visit a fairy in a tree at home) refuses to believe in the Empire State Building and is baffled by the fact that the humans in New York are in cages but the animals are not.Highly entertaining, especially if you are a parent or a writer.
Both Raising Demons and Life Among the Savages are fabulous reads from Shirley Jackson about her family life in rural Vermont.
I find it interesting that Shirley Jackson never refers to her writing in either of the books.
I know the focus is supposed to be on her family life, but one would imagine her trying to get a little writing done amidst all of the chaos (and imagining how the hell she found the time) and it would have been interesting to hear mention of it.

I cannot recommend Ms. Jackson's books enough for humor and family and a world that no longer exists. It's so appealing and her wry voice brings a glamour to 4 kids, innumerable animals, and old houses."Dewey, dewey," said Beekman, this being a combination word he used for a series of connected ideas, roughly translatable as: Observe my latest achievement, far surpassing all my previous works in this line, a great and personal triumph representing perhaps the most intelligent process ever accomplished by a child of my years. "Dewey," said Beekman pleasurably.
More funny stories about child rearing in the 1950s by the author of The Lottery
Not as awesome as her novels, but funny nonetheless.
