https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/625233.The_Good_Companions
I found a 1986 copy of The Good Companions tucked in the "sad, abandoned books" closet in the common room of our dormitory.
I was desperate for a novel that wouldn't depress me--for some reason, the books I grabbed on my way up to Boston were all intelligently and academically unhappy, a little rubbing and joyless, or otherwise just unsettling.
This story filled a literary need I didn't know I had.
I don't know if I'd recommend it to other people--it's possible it just hit what I needed, personally, at one specific moment--but this impulse find is now one of my favorite novels of all time.
From BBC Radio 4 Dra,a:John Retallack's dramatisation of J B Priestley's classic story of a 1929 Concert Party tour charts new adventures for factory worker Jess Oakroyd and newly independant Miss Trant.Music composed by Neil BrandMusicians Neil Brand, Michael Hammond & Alex Hammond.Director: David Hunter.https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b09s...
If you're thinking about reading this wonderful novel, you've got to be prepared for an extremely long period piece (written immediately after World War I)that's a little slow getting started, that's about the lives of Britain's long-forgotten music-hall troupes, and that's devoid of any really sensational plot developments.
THE GOOD COMPANIONS was a sensational best-seller in its day, it's been the basis of several stage plays and half a dozen movies (Judi Dench, who starred in one of the films, provides an introduction to this excellent Kindle edition) and Priestley spent the rest of his life trying to write something that would make people stop thinking of him as the author of THE GOOD COMPANIONS.
I re-read this book last summer and loved it just as much as the first time.
It's a road book, which I love, and involves a cast of memorable characters all drawn together into one traveling theatrical company.
It probably helps to be able to decipher Yorkshire and cockney accents, but once you can do that, it's as full of good things as a plum pudding (hmmm...
full of plums?) I recently read in Private Battles (a selection of first hand accounts of England and Scotland during the Blitz)that Priestly was much loved at the time for his radio broadcasts, and seen as the voice of the working people.
A delightful book, with lovable and memorable characters and lots of local colour. Follows the adventures of a troupe of music hall performers in what must be the 1920s, as they travel through small-town England. The diverse cast of characters is viewed mainly through the eyes of two 'outsiders' -- Jess Oakroyd, a working class middle-aged man from Yorkshire who has run away from home and unsympathetic wife; and Miss Trant, a middle aged lady who has come into a small fortune and decides to follow her dream and support the stranded troupe. Not a great book but thoroughly enjoyable.
Bettie's Books
Mentioned in, The Diary of a Provincial Lady by E. M. Delafield
I loved the way that Priestley drew you into this story and his portrayal of the Northern character. His descriptions of the various events which lead to the formation of the 'Good Companions' was wonderful and I couldn't put the book down. I now have to read more Priestley!
I am at last reading The Good Companions. I love it. That's the sort of book I would like to write. P.G. Wodehouse
Maybe not great literature but I can't remember the last time I enjoyed a book so much.
The 90 minute adaptation was well done but understandably drops a great deal of set up.
So far it's a friendly, great bear of a book but doesn't set the world alight, which it was never meant to do.
It is a book of its time for its time, and none the worse for that.I feel this is one of the few books that you can read comfortably after listening to an abridged version as there weren't any major twists in the book but the characters, which carry the story far more than the plot does, are better fleshed out.
It was his favourite book of his teenage years and one night, when he missed the last train back to home he sat on the platform and read this book until morning.
If I ever read anything, I knew this book would be one of them, just to know my Grandad's favourite a little bit more!It was a very wordy book and typical of the time of publication (1927 I think?) but the characters and plot line were wonderful!!
It was such a happy go lucky book filled with such different yet realistic characters.
Didn't think it was as good as 'Angel Pavement' and was possibly longer than it needed to be, but I'll miss Mr Oakroyd. I'd have been happy to see a bit more of him!
I know I am supposed to like this the most of all J.B. Priestly's books, but I far prefer some of his other novels, a couple of which are pure gems. I actually had a lot of trouble beginning this novel (even when I was devouring J.B. Priestly), something I attempted many times over the years. I finally persevered, but am unlikely to read it again.
The three are totally disparate - a young graduate mouldering away as a teacher in a dull prep school; a vicar's daughter who has had no life but now has a considerable inheritance; and a late middle-aged multi-skilled artisan bored of his life, bored of his stultifying wife and annoyed by his go-getting son who thinks that everything his Dad has strived for is worthless.This is how we meet Inigo Jollifant, Miss Elizabeth Trant and Mr Jess Oakroyd.
Miss Trant often wonders why she has put her money into this seemingly hopeless project.Spoiler Alert!The bite in this wonderful, funny, entertaining picaresque comes in the very 'open-ended' ending.
Elizabeth Trant, a woman who has taken care of her sick father, Colonel Trant, until his death, and finally Inigo Jolliphant whom teaches history and literature at a boarding school in which he gets canned and decides to go on playing piano.They all meet up in Rawsley by chance and Elizabeth decides to manage and payout for a failing concert troupe called the Dinky Doo's in which later she changes that ridiculous name to the Good Companions.
The adventure they all find is a travelling show on its last legs, and all three throw in with the players as they tour across England.It's a warm and lovely story, but there was an edge of sadness to rereading it.
When I first read it in my teens, the world it described was still just within living memory.
This time, it felt like a historical novel.
Modern entertainment is so at odds with the pierhead and fairground entertainments of the book that it felt like it was describing a very faraway world.
I enjoyed this so much as a teenager (that's half a century ago, near enough for government work) that I have just bought it for Kindle so I can read it again on my travels.A mixed group of English "characters" go on the halls, having adventures of a gentle kind in the English countryside.
It's a gentle, joyful book.I need to read it again, because I can't recall if they ever got the Shuddersford (as Susie called it).
Music halls interest me because they were very much an 1859 phenomenon, but by the time I read 'Good Companions' for the first time, just after I started listening to it as a radio serial.
This is a delightful book, nicely written with humour and a pleasant, quirky cast and story.
It was first published in 1929, written a few years earlier and became the bestseller of the depression.It is the story of a travelling theatre group, but it starts with an ordinary working man being laid off from his work at a Yorkshire woolen mill, a gentlewoman selling up and moving out, and a schoolmaster getting the sack.
In this book their misfortunes are the impetus for a new life.
The edition I have of this book was republished over 50 times between 1929 and 1974.
It's weakness is probably is that it was first published in 1929.
It hasn't always dated as well as other novels that were published long ago.
At times it is twee.
On the positive side it is very well written, at times stunningly well written.
There are parts of the novel which are very Sillitoe as he writes about terraced house working class Yorkshire.
I think if you were new to Priestley I'd read something by him that was more up to date.
Re-read.
Another book that displays Priestley's amazing ability to develop interesting, well-rounded characters who feel very real, even minor ones that appear only briefly.
A different time, a long-gone profession, and great characters.Note: This re-read was of the 1929 1st edition which, perhaps half-a-dozen times, used terms for people of African and Asian descent that would be considered pejoratives today.
I believe my decades-ago initial reading was of a much later edition which must have been edited, as I don't remember seeing any of this then.
I bought a trade paperback of this book in May of 1987 when I was about to have our first baby.
I brought it to the hospital with me, along with a couple of thrillers, and ended up reading that book like my salvation would result from reading it.
The style is a little old fashioned, it is by no means a book with non-stop action, laughs anf thrills -- it is a lovely look at a long-ago time with interesting people tying to make fulfilling lives for themselves through a traveling theater troupe.
I really love it.
A terrific read. Not a book which can be described as "fashionable " these days, but obviously a huge hit in the pre and post war eras. Funny, cheerful, and optimistic, it describes a world of provincial theatres and touring shows which no longer exists. Priestley clearly loved England and the oddities of place which globalisation has largely destroyed or homogenised, although he doesn't flinch from portraying mean and desperate towns too.
The tale of three disparate people at turning points in their life and how they end up in a performing troupe. What follows is a light-hearted look at the ups and downs of a performing life. It succeeds because of the wonderful way Priestley portrays each of these characters and weaves them together into a convincing whole. Some may not like the Deux ex Machina way things turn out for the best in the end, but as I was really rooting for these people it didn't disturb me.
* 1000 novels everyone must read: the definitive list: Family and SelfSelected by the Guardian's Review team and a panel of expert judges, this list includes only novels – no memoirs, no short stories, no long poems – from any decade and in any language. Originally published in thematic supplements – love, crime, comedy, family and self, state of the nation, science fiction and fantasy, war and travel – they appear here for the first time.
3.5 stars.This book was utterly charming from beginning to finish.It was recommended and given to me by my grandfather, who as a long lover of the theatre, raved about this and I can see why.The only reason this book isn't higher is because although it is charming, it is not a book full of plot or gripping adventures, so it took me a long time to read and I didn't find myself picking it up quickly.
One of my top ten all time favourite books -- the story of a rag-tag Concert Party (theatrical variety show) travelling the UK in the late 1920s. Simply wonderful -- filled with humanity, humour, pathos and other delights. My reading group -- which is very close to my heart and has been going for nearly 30 years -- read this book 20+ years ago and adopted the name The Good Companions. Re-reading it for the umpteenth time.
I FOUND IT! I read this book back in Scotland, or maybe even before during university and I could never recall what it was or who it was by, except the fact that it was about a theater group in England. And now because of a Flavorwire article about Roald Dahl's Matilda and the books she read, I know what it was. Mystery solved.
One of the books referred to in The Uncommon Reader on Queen Elizabeth's (fictitious) reading list
This has to be one of my favorite books. Good story, great characters, humour, good descriptive passages. It's a book that I go back to over and over again. The last time I read it was on Kindle, in India.
