https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1217221.Six_Tales_of_the_Jazz_Age
These stories were all written for magazines, and are perfect examples of "slick magazine fiction." Each one is engaging, well-written, moving, and has much evidence of the sophisticated style and high seriousness which characterizes Fitzgerald's later work.
Often they contain a good deal of very engaging wit and humor.All that being said: they are not worth reading, unless one is interested in Fitzgerald's growth as a writer (which I am).
Fitzgerald's efforts to pander to the magazine reader of the early 1920s results in much superficial sentiment that rings patently false.
Rozumiem, prečo sa o Fitzgeraldovi hovorí, že bol majster krátkych literárnych útvarov. Všetky tieto poviedky sú brilantne vystavané a napísané. Avšak keď sú takto spolu v jednej knižke, akosi na seba narážajú. Neviem prísť na nič, čo by ich spájalo a nie je to dokonca ani džezový vek, pretože niektoré sa odohrávajú v 19. storočí. Kniha potom pôsobí veľmi nesúrodo, čo je škoda. Každopádne veľmi dobré čítanie.
These were somewhat famously done for money, and the implication has always been that they were slick, watered down stories written to appeal to the large audience that purchased magazines like The Saturday Evening Post. And yes, some of them (Hot and Cold Blood, The Adjuster) do feel pretty lightweight, with hackneyed twist endings, but others (The Camel's Back, The Lees of Happiness) are actually pretty exceptional. Fitzgerald is enough of an artist that even his obviously for money work is still full of strong craft. Not essential reading by any means, though.
These stories really make you examine the relationships people have with one another and made me think about how my own were similar or different as I read.In The Jelly-Bean a man who isn't really worth much from society's point of view is almost persuaded to turn his life around and make something of himself until the woman who makes him want more slips away.The Camel's Back is a humourous story of a man inadvertantly tricking his reluctant fiancee into finally getting married.The Curious Case of Benjamin Button is the story of what would happen if someone were to age backwards, from old age to birth.
Great list of 6 short stories to give you a taste for Scott Fitzgerald's style.
One of Fitzgerald's best collections. Each tale was filled with opulence and irony, justice and despair. Definitely a collection worth reading.
Ma soprattutto il film, a differenza del racconto, finisce per girare tutto intorno a una grande, hollywoodiana storia d'amore: quella tra due persone che si riconoscono anime gemelle al primo sguardo, anche se lei è una bambina e lui un arzillo vecchietto "diverso da tutti gli altri", e che pur cercandosi per tutta la vita si incontrano veramente solo per un istante (ma un istante che vale un'esistenza), come due treni lanciati in direzioni opposte si incrociano per pochi attimi a metà del cammino, e poi proseguono la loro folle corsa, inesorabilmente, allontanandosi per sempre.Senza alcuna indulgenza al mélo, Fitzgerald racconta invece di un uomo che incontra la sua giovane sposa da maturo benestante («preferisco sposare un uomo di cinquant'anni che si prenda cura di me», dice Hildegard, «piuttosto che uno di trenta e dovermi prendere cura di lui»); e cessa di provare attrazione per lei quando, sentendosi più giovane e rinvigorito, la vede moglie e madre quarantenne, ormai «divorata da quell’inerzia interiore che un giorno assale la vita di ciascuno di noi e non ci abbandona più fino alla fine».
E, à medida que passamos pelos contos, isso vai se confirmando.De início, lemos O boa vida e As costas do camelo, em que tudo é cheio de purpurina, long drinks e charutos.
Daí vem Benjamin Button, bem menos intenso no papel que em película; então, quase achamos que vamos voltar aos long drinks e charutos com Tarquínio de Cheapside e “Ó feiticeira ruiva!”, até que afundamos na vida suburbana nada atraente de O resíduo da felicidade, O conciliador, Sangue ardente, sangue frio e A soneca de Gretchen.
Conhecida pelo apelido Scottie, ela relembra alguns truques escolares que aprendeu com o pai e nos aponta o quanto ele escreveu apesar de ter vivido pouco.
6) "The Lees of Happiness" - 3.5 stars - I was really hoping this story would end in a happily-ever-after, but it ends ambiguously.
I choose to believe there was eventually a happily-ever-after.7) "The Adjuster" - 3+ stars - WTH?
The Ghost of Don't Say Things You Don't Mean??8) "Hot and Cold Blood" - 3 stars - Ah, I was able to guess the end reveal, but not how it would affect the main character.
Somebody makes a good point mentioning that these stories were written for magazines, that is, for income.
Which evidently he achieved.I'm not knocking that, but it does create different constraints.
His daughter, in her introduction, doesn't come right out and say so, but she comes pretty close.My favorite of the bunch was "Hot and Cold Blood." For someone who's best known remark deals with the rich, this provides an interesting account of the not-so.
I like the way it manages to present different points of view.
And the non-defamatory way it deploys the word 'romantic'.
Though I have to wonder if the underlying idea is defamatory: women prevent the world from sharing, it's instinctive with them, blah, blah, blah.
The Great Gatsby is one of my favorite novels of all time, so I was kind of bummed to find this collection of short stories—the first examples of Fitzgerald’s short fiction I’ve read since high school—rather underwhelming.
Maybe I just wasn’t in the right mood, but nothing in here electrified me the way Gatsby does, and I began to feel sodden from such a deluge of stories about unpleasant women.
Poor Scott; your issues are showing, man.It was interesting to read “The Curious Case of Benjamin Button” in light of the movie coming out soon.
The story is one of the least romantic things I’ve ever read—anti-romantic, possibly.
I don't recall ever reading anything of F.
Scott Fitzgerald's writings, before.
Now that I have, prompted by the movie 'The Curious Case of Benjamin Button', which was based on Fitzgerald's short story of the same name (included in this volume), I will count him among my favorite (short) story tellers; along with O'Henry, Mark Twain and T.C. Boyle.The first two stories included in the 'Six Tales of the Jazz Age and Other Stories'.
'The Jelly-Bean' and 'The Camel's Back' are just so-so.
Beginning with '....Benjamin Button' and on through to the end, though, the reading just keeps getting better and better.
F. Scott. Fitzgerald has a knack for writing wonderfully tragic and beautifully nostalgic stories that make me long for an era I've never known firsthand. He also has a knack for writing humor, which is difficult to do. There were several stories that had me grinning or actually laughing. What is especially fascinating to me is how timeless these stories are despite being eighty-ish years old.My favorite story was "Gretchen's Forty Winks." It had me literally laughing out loud a few times and trying to explain the humor to my husband.
I found myself mentally giving Jazz Age fashion, cars, and other trappings to the characters, because, after all, the title of the book says "Jazz Age." However, most of these stories could be comfortably set in another decade. Rereading Fitzgerald's writing after a hiatus of many years, I let myself forget his talent as a writer. Entertaining and witty stories, written for magazines. I find Benjamin Button the weakest of the stories...it appears like the author was trying something new...but the story does make you think.
Fitzgerald skutočne dokázal nazrieť pod povrch vzťahov a aj na malom priestore sa dokázal vyhrať so psychológiou postáv. Poviedky sú, okrem akéhosi etického poukazovania na relatívnosť bohatstva a šťastia, svojou vtipnou poetikou vhodným oddychovým čítaním, akýmsi romantickým poviedkovým impresionizmom, ktorému nechýba pointa, často absentujúca v poviedkach postmoderného veku.https://dennikn.sk/33300/klasika-ktor...
The first two stories, The Jelly-Bean and the Camel's Back were quite good. The Curious Case of Benjamin Button was not as good as its premise (aging backwards) would seem to promise. The rest of the collection, culled from Tales from the Jazz Age (1922) and a later collection of Fitzgerald's short stories, is uneven in quality and does not contain A Diamond as Big as the Ritz as the original collection did. Still, it is definitely worth reading for the stories that do succeed.
Fitzgerald is one of our most famous authors; I also read the Great Gatsby which is clearly his most famous. These short stories are interesting in presenting the mind set of post WWI young people, generally those from the educated ranks. Fitzgerald seems to be analyzing the relations of men and the new, independent minded woman of the time. The social structure seems archaic to us now, but the underlying issues are very contemporary.
I had read four of the eleven stories prior to picking up this book, so I focused on reading these, including "The Curious Case of Benjamin Button," which has great differences to the movie version.Of these seven stories, I was drawn to "The Adjuster" and "O Russet Witch" the most, but these do not fair well versus his more famous short stories.
I haven't read any F. Scott Fitzgerald in recent memory but like this thus far. I picked it up because it had The Curious Case of Benjamin Button (which was a thousand times better in short story than in film). I prefer his works to other stuff I've read this summer because he describes everyone and everything with intensity and skims over saying what happened.
I was a little put off by the intro because its written by FSG's own daughter snd she sets it up to sound kind of boring and not about the jazz age that we think was the jazz age. These stories are about ordinary people in that time period and most of them are quite good, much better than I expected.
After about the fourth short story I felt that the themes, characters, and tensions lacked variety. Fitzgerald's writing always catches me but his characters in the last three stories made dim his artistry. Would recommend but would also suggest sticking to his novels.
Love Fitzgerald and his short stories, especially since they do a great job of describing the roaring 20s, flappers, big hopes and young love. Realism gets tragic from time to time, a little heavy for summer fun.
Many of the stories did not resonate with me, but I thought that they were imaginative. "The Case of Benjamin Button" was the original concept for the movie by the same name and interesting in its differences.
Selected by my bookgroup. Still thinking about how to assess the stories. The plots and ideas and even perspectives seem to me to be definitely flawed, but some of the writing is definitely beautiful. More later.
Worth another read, individual stories range in quality but on balance entertaining. Short stories can be quite refreshing.
The jazz age in America -- Fitzgerald in his element.
I only read The Curious Case of Benjamin Button, but I should really read the others too.
Amusing and witty. Mainly about love, relationships, and young married life. Most have surprising endings. And more than a few touch on insanity.
Fun and fast. Great insight into the 1920s with very curious topics.
Fascinating collection of short stories that shows how F. Scott Fitzgerald sustained himself between books.
