https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22574077-sacred-marriage
The book readily admits couples will not always get along and sometimes things will even be unfair, but often it does not offer a good solution for how to toe the line between addressing your needs so that your partner can fulfill them (which it says you should do) and understanding when things aren't going to go your way and humbly deciding to love your partner anyway (which it also says to do, for God's sake).I actually really like Thomas's main thesis, which is simply put that marriage, before anything else, is not designed necessarily to make us happy but instead to make us grow in God. I can see how other reviewers could think (as I did at parts) that he seems to push this point too hard, instead forgetting the joys, delight, and companionship that marriage really can bring.
The tag on the cover sums it up: "What if God designed marriage to make us holy more than to make us happy?" This is a ground-breaking concept in today's world of serial divorces.
When the marriage gets difficult, or just worn out, we get a new wife or husband.
After 20 years of marriage, through some hard times when I wanted to just run, I am growing to love my wife more than the day I married her.
And, more importantly, I'm growing closer to God. I can see him working in my life every day.
It can really help define for you the God-designed-purpose for your marriage: to draw you closer to Him.
When we choose to do this, we can see our marriage not for what we gain from it, but for how it can shape and change us to be more like Christ.#2) This book is readable.
Whether I'm reading fiction or non-fiction, I like a book that makes me think.
I didn't have any wisdom of my own to offer, but did share that I think this book would be great for either of them to read.I've been married 13 years.
This book made me thankful for the marriage I have.
If you're recently married, engaged or have been married for years, I'd encourage you to read this book.
I don’t think the main purpose of marriage is to make us holy rather than happy.
But I think the overall purpose of marriage is to make us happy.
If God designed marriage, then I see it as one good option in living an abundant life on earth.
I think too great a burden is placed on marriage, depicting it as a unique revealer of God, ourselves, and as a light to the world.
In fact, Thomas goes so far as to say, “The thought that God wants me to serve him by concentrating on making my wife happy was extraordinary.
It's obvious that Thomas believes the end of marriage is indeed personal sanctification, and Scripture would bear out his conclusions.Because of this unusual premise, the chapters in the book are not what you might expect.
Each chapter deals with one area of personal holiness that marriage deals with: truth about God, good prayer, building character, serving, and so forth.
That sort of inward focus--how can this or that area of marriage be improved--goes against the very nature of what Thomas writes: God is most glorified not when a marriage is pleasing to those involved, but when those involved are focused on Christ, rather than themselves or even each other.As much as the book is excellent, though, it needs some complementing.
Rather, Sacred Marriage is “a book that looks at how we can use the challenges, joys, struggles, and celebrations” (but, let’s be honest here, mostly the struggles) “of marriage to draw closer to God and to grow in Christian character.” I once heard an Indian pastor say, “In America, if you ask parents what they most want for their children, parents usually answer that they want their children to be happy.
I recommend this book to any Christian who has ever felt less than fulfilled in his or her marriage or who has ever considered divorce.
She said thought was helpful for married people, but she really wanted to give it to all her unmarried friends because she thought it would set up some more realistic expectations for marriage (what, it’s not all rainbows and unicorns?).
And seeing as most of our single friends would tell her where she could kindly stick the book, she thought I would be more open to it since I’m in a relationship and not riding the Single Train right now.And seeing as how I would, in fact, like to be married one day, I told her I’d give it a shot.Anywhatzit, I think the premise of this book is applicable to so much more than a marriage, although it probably seen most sharply within matrimony.
I think it also sets up some realistic expectations for marriage.
Original Review posted HEREI think every married couple should read this book!
I usually have a hard time reading non-fiction, but this book flowed nicely.
It took me a long time to read because there is so much meat in it to process!Furthermore, he uses lots of scripture and few rhetoric.
It's less about building a better marriage and more about seeing the character of God IN marriage.
However, his principles can help you build a better marriage as he gives a more proper and biblical view of marriage than most of us hold.
A thought-provoking and challenging book on the way marriage can be used to build character and foster a servant-hearted, humble attitude in each spouse.
When the media is saturated with notions of self-fulfillment and romance as the most important elements of a happy marriage, Gary Thomas paints a picture of what he calls a "sacred marriage", shaped by sacrificial love and the spiritual disciplines of forgiveness, perseverance, and respect.Some gems from the book:'When disagreements arise, the natural tendency is to flee.
Marriage challenges this "flight" tendency.
I read the first few chapters of this book when I was newly engaged, as my pastor recommended it to my husband and I to read as part of our pre-marriage counseling.
I thought to myself, "Of course I'm going to love and serve my husband.
This book really made me think about my marriage and where I am placing my priorities.
I strongly recommend this book to any married person; however, I would say that for the most part, only Chapter 10 would have caught my attention when I was engaged.
He wrote largely from his point of view as a husband and man seeking God, so while I found it very helpful and even inspiring that men out there work so hard at their marriage and relationship with God, there was just something missing.
Overall, this book encourages you to accept marriage as a challenge for maturity, particularly Christian maturity.
For me, this is the best book I have read about marriage so far and I already know I will reread portions of it.
Fantastic book on marriageI have never read a Christian book on marriage that placed such a high priority on the sanctification aspect of marriage. His discussion of marital sex was even placed within the context of sanctification. The last chapter was undoubtedly my favourite. The struggle between individual calling and marriage was addressed. How does one live out ones individual calling within the context of marriage? Thomas gives a great answer.
If I could give this book six stars, I would.
If I could give a copy to every married Christan, I'd do that too.
Thomas' perspective - that marriage is designed to produce holiness more than happiness in our lives - is refreshing and rings abundantly true.
Highly recommended for married people and engaged people within a few weeks of marriage.Important content warning for single people thinking about reading this book:(view spoiler)[If you're single, I recommend skipping the chapter on sex.
It's very good and helpful content, but for singles it could be quite provocative in an unhealthy way as it's fairly explicit.
(hide spoiler)]
This book could have been condensed into one chapter.
Although there is some element of truth in what he's saying, he comes across as being himself in a pretty joyless marriage due to having married very young.
I will confess that part of my annoyance with the book is his complementarian view of gender roles, which I staunchly disagree with.
But not a bad read entirely.
He is right in that most people, Christians and non-Christians alike, see marriage as being given for their happiness and not their holiness.
He favors holiness, obviously.
But does it have to be entirely joyless?
There is discussion of selflessness and sacrifice but it's in a larger context than "do this to make your marriage work." The funny thing is, Thomas very successfully makes the point that if you allow the work of marriage to transform you as an individual, your relationship will also be all that much stronger.As far as weak points, I often felt like as a woman Thomas was not really speaking to me, that a lot of his stronger statements were more addressed to the male half of a couple and a man's perspective.
This isn't a book that advocates staying in an unhealthy relationship, nor an anti-divorce rhetoric.
This book is both powerful and immensely readable, and while it never advocates staying in a marriage where a spouse has strayed or abused- and in fact, there is an extremely powerful story about a divorced woman and how it shaped her relationship to Christ within- the book counter culturally challenges the idea that marriage is about personal happiness and fleeting satisfaction, and does so in a non-confrontational, at times almost poetic way.
My women's group used this book to guide discussions on a weekly basis for about six months.
The group contained women with kids, without kids, single, divorce, remarried, widowed, and with traditional marriages.
The only weakness I can see is that in a marriage where the wife is a Christian and the husband is abusive or hostile towards Chrisitianity, the advice given could be more harmful than helpful - especially the one on serving.
As long as the two people in marriage are relatively equal in regards to their care and concern for each other, the advice given should help their marriages tremendously.
WOW! Every couple should read this book and every couple getting ready to get married should read this book. Gary Thomas did a powerful job of showing how marriage is not about our indiviual happiness but about how we can grow in holiness. The copy that I just read was a library book, but if it had been mine it would have been dog-eared and full of stars and underlines! My perspective of marriage has been greatly altered and I look forward to the years ahead that God gives us with a renewed passion.
The idea that marriage is to benefit the relationship of spouses with God is antithetical to the view that marriage is to be the culmination of romance and a partnership resulting in unending happiness.
It is that thesis that guides the rest of the book, for each chapter somehow relates to investigating how those roles are lived out and how that purposed is enacted in marriage.Another central idea is the recognition of the fallen nature of one’s spouse (67-69).
9 of 10 people found the following review helpful: My new favorite marriage book, August 11, 2005I used to give out copies of Bryan Chapell's wonderful Each for the Other. Before that my favorite book on marriage had been Mike Mason The Mystery of Marriage. Thomas is my new favorite. He shows that the design of marriage is not for our mere happiness. It is so much greater than that. Its central purpose is our holiness. In this approach, God alone is acknowledged as Lord of our lives. He is cent
Thomas wants the reader to embrace a Biblical vision for marriage that views all of the joy and sorrow, success and struggle as opportunities to draw closer to God and to grow in grace.
Again and again, the Scriptures show us that all of life (marriage included) is about showing us who God is, how we need him, and may draw near to him through faith alone: Habakkuk's prayer for justice is answered by sending the Babylonians (Hab. 1:6f.); Hosea is told to take his wandering wife Gomer back and bear children with her; the people will be sent into 70 years of exile as a blessing; Job loses it all (Job 1), except the most important thing; Joseph is sold into slavery by his brothers (Gen 37:12f.); following Christ faithfully leads the disciples literally into life's storms (Matt.
This book instructs both the persons involved in moving closer to God through the art of Marriage.
Abraham Lincoln gave a powerful message on November 19, 1863, at the Battle of Gettysburg during the American civil war and it is considered as one of the greatest speeches ever made in the American Soil.
It is amazing.The Goal of this book is to pursue a life Holy through the Challenges we face as a couple.To achieve something in life, we have to work for it and the same applies for Marriage, you have to put your effort, time and commitment to make it work.
God is Pure and holy and it should not be compared to activities of the flesh
Excellent book on marriage which right out of the gate challenges the prevailing social myths about marriage and its purpose in society.
Thomas starts off with a quick review of the Romantic period and its influence on how we perceive marriage and what we expect out of it: un-dying romantic love and bliss, a partner who's focused solely on your needs, etc.
He points out that this is a relatively recent phenomenon and that marriage was not always perceived this way.
I could say a lot more but perhaps the best thing I can say is that I see myself re-reading this book many times as I grow older with my wife.
Gary Thomas is a new favorite author of mine.
What if God designed marriage to make us holy more than to make us happy, indeed?As an aside, some brand-new wives may find Sacred Influence a more practically relevant read because, while springboarding off of Sacred Marriage, Sacred Influence is geared toward wives with husbands who are unbelievers, angry, etc.Sacred Marriage I highly recommend to any and all newlyweds.
This book will challenge you to see your covenant love as a call to not only love your husband, but also the God who gave you to each other.
This was an amazing book, truly a gift from God. I enjoy read marriage books, I have a passion for marriage ministry. Author Gary Thomas is a n amazing writer. I do believe God designed marriage to make us more holy. Happiness is a journey the same as Holiness. I would definitely recommend this book to single and married couples.
Ok. I'll think about it. I swore off marriage books years ago...better for me to focus on my submission to God & let the run-off improve my marriage...but this one has an interesting bent.
Reading the book reminded me that marriage is designed for believers to demonstrate the Love of God towards us.
To make marriage work one has to realize true & sustaining love is so much more than feelings.
Feelings fade so we must choose to love daily.
True love is patient & kind.
Love is not jealous or boastful or proud or rude.
Love never gives up, Never loses faith, is always hopeful and endures through every circumstances.
My favorite scriptures 1 Corinthians 13: 4_7 Gods recipe is the pathway to a love that lasts.
Yes this book is built off these premises.
Great book!
There is a plethora of spiritual guidance within the work.
It lacks practical advice, but replaces practicality with an unbiased presentation of Christian tradition--this might be the most impressive part of the book.
The fact that the author who is Protestant, evaluates and accepts ideas from Catholic as well as Orthodox Church fathers, shows a flexibility and tolerance valuable in marriage itself.
Great work.
Not a five star book yet.
But a dim light compared to other works on marriage in my eyes.
A shallow yet clear water lake, compared to the ocean of depth within the Catholic Church, in particular Theology of the Body.
Some really excellent advice to keep in mind.
If you are single, engaged or married you need to read this book.
Prob one of the best marriage books I've read!
