https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51011.Maris
Seriously this thing ought to be made into a movie.Things go wrong, starting with her mother falling seriously ill and go downhill from there, leaving our young heroine with a choice to determine what truly matters.
This is one of those stories that I go to when things are difficult in my own personal life.
That reassurance that we're not alone, and that things can truly work out for the best is perhaps a little old-fashioned of an idea, but I'm finding that I'm becoming a more and more old-fashioned girl as I read these books.
This was the first GLH book I ever read, back in my early young adult days. Many years later it was still enjoyable, even though I've read it numerous times over the years. A fairy tale, yes, and very unrealistic, but a delightful and easy love story.
Maris, a simply lovely young woman and devoted to her family, has her eyes turned for awhile by the glitz and glamor that is her high society fiancé.
An old high school chum returns home to live next door in his family home.
As Maris observes the differences in the character of these two men during her family crisis, where one pitches in to do all that he can to help, whilst the other is continually ‘put out’ at Maris’ apparent disregard for his feelings, she is to forced to come to terms with what she really believes is important in life.
I wish there were more authors like Livingston.She writes about problems that were relevant a century ago and are still problems we have today. The answers to so many of our serious family problems, depression, lack of direction in life could be solved by getting back to basic godly love for our fellow man. I always feel great after reading one of her books.
Grace is a great writer. she brings live to what writes. i am so happy that my mom gave one of books when was a young lady she has helped me to live closer to god in my life. i will be happy to give my young niece and my younger great niece them both some of her books to them. if you have young lady in your life a good book to start to get put your mind to rest and know that she is readomg great book.
A young poor girls' eyes are opened to the true cost of marrying a selfish rich boy. She turns to a dependable loving boy who is like a brother.A quick enjoyable read for adults and a recommended reading for youth on the verge of girlfriend/boyfriend relationships to ponder character, flattery, dreams, relationships, etc.
I love the Grace Livingston Hill books. Written in the 1930's, they are Christian romance books of the day, where the good guys are really good, the bad guys are really bad, and good always wins over evil.
great read
As good as all her books are. Loved it!
Hill, Grace Livingston
