https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52926.The_Ogre
The crescendo is reached when the latter murmurs in coda that "There's probably nothing more moving in a man's life than the accidental discovery of his own perversion." Just how much truth this observation bore is revealed to Abel many years later, when he has mutated from a bunched-up, undersized boy into a hulking giant of a man: bearing a wounded child in his massive arms, he is lapped by beatific paroxysms of phoric joy, much akin to that experienced by a pair of historic personages: St. Christopher when he similarly performed as steed for a riverine Christ, and Alfonso d'Albuquerque, a conquistador in peril of death at the hands of the boundless sea, who perched a lad atop his shoulders in the desperate hope that the youth's innocence would serve to cleanse him of sin and turn the eye of God toward him in a favorable light.
It's difficult reading, but it's clear enough Tiffauges looks at reality in a very strange way, with special attention to young children (yes, indeed); he sees himself as "childbearer", and Saint Christopher his patron-saint; but a girlfriend refers to the 'oger'-myth, a humanoid monster in fairy-tales that hunts children.Then the perspective changes: the Second World War starts and Tiffauges is prisoner of war in a camp in East-Prussia, deep in Germany.
He is afforded a lot of freedom, becomes an aide of Göring and eventually ends up in a castle-school of the Hitlerjugend.
In short, there is a lot in this book to make it a beautiful, but shocking work, but in the end I can not say this was pleasant to read.
the use of pigeons during war, the different kinds of such pigeons;11.
different positions of boys while asleep.I also gave it another star because although I already "knew" the overall complexion of the story and its probable trajectory (what with its dead giveaways : the "ogre" title, its first 1/3 part consisting of Tiffauges's "sinister diary", his huge body and the smallness of his penis, his obvious megalomania and pedophiliac tendencies, the war era, France and later Germany as settings) it turned out differently and quite beyond my expectations.Apart from these, however, I felt this was just a piece of crap.
Since The Ogre is a book obsessed with taxonomy, heraldry, classification of all kinds, I'll start by saying that the author MIchel Tournier most reminds me of is Thomas Mann.
Indeed, by the end of it, I got the sense that Tournier is not just system-obsessed, but system-haunted, and that the pages upon pages detailing the main character's private universe were put there as a way to make us see how a modern-day Crusoe (that is, a person who feels completely cut off from human connection) might go about surviving.
In places, Tournier's book may be in a little too much of a hurry the answer these questions, to follow the arrow of its logic.
Tournier costruisce un protagonista unico, Abel Tiffauges, ossessionato da simboli e predestinazioni, attirato dai bambini di cui vuole farsi "forico" (portatore, nel senso di Cristoforo), in cui la follia disadattata viene magistralmente fatta "percolare" dall'autore tra le righe e le pagine.
Le riflessioni sui meccanismi simbolici sono molto fini, quasi filosofiche nel maneggiare una materia spesso orribile e inumana (dai soprusi al collegio fino all'incontro con Goring, per arrivare al castello della HitlerJugend).
Potrebbe sembrare un libro pesante, ma Tournier è un grande scrittore, perchè la lettura rimane agevole, anche se molto densa, tra echi di Celine e di Camus, veramente un grande libro!
Yazarın ilk okuduğum kitabı. Mitolojinin gerçekliğe yedirilmesi çok güzeldi. 2. Dünya Savaşı Nazi Almanyası etkilerini Goethe'nin Kızılağaçlar Kralı şiirinin verdiği esinle erkekte annelik güdülerini anlatmak... Bence hissedilmesi gereken bir deneyim. Başka türlü bakmak isteyenler için.
Michel Tournier's Der Erlekonig(a.k.a. The Ogre, a.k.a Le roi des aulnes) accomplishes the remarkable feat of making the reader feel even queasier than does the poem by Goethe from which it takes its name.I still recall reading Goethe's poem in my last year of High School surrounded by old friends.
The Erlekonig is the ogre of the alders lurking in the trees waiting to grab and kill children.
Goethe indeed created a masterpiece of terror.Tournier's version of the tale is even more unsettling to the reader.
Tiffauges tries to redeem himself by saving one of the boys from being killed.
Michel Tournier writesThere’s probably nothing more moving in a man’s life than the accidental discovery of his own perversion.and:The very perfection of its functioning and the terrible energy that went into it were enough to exclude him forever, but he knew no machinery is safe from a piece of grit, and that fate was on his side.and:The moth flies on wings of love toward the electric light bulb.
And when he gets there, close to it, as near as he can be to that which attracts him irresistibly, he doesn’t know what to do.
He doesn’t know what to do with it.
The "ogre" of the title is Abel Tiffauges, a French mechanic who first appears a kind of autistic naif, strange rather than frightening in his obsessions (or perversions).
It begins in France, 1938, in the years before Hitler's invasion — then as the war progresses, the setting moves eastward, into a winter-world of horror, and ultimately, transcendence — which I admit doesn't tell you much.
It's an unusual, demanding novel; to my mind, a work of genius, unlike anything I've ever read, including the other great, equally odd novels of Tournier: Gemini; Friday; The Four Wise Men.Not a book for the weak-hearted.
Jelikož byl tábor pracovní, tak ho tam neohřáli.Z pracovního tábora následovaly poměrně rychlé přesuny v aktivitách - jelikož měl rád nejen děti, ale i zvířata, tak chvilku sloužil na panství Reichsjägermeistera (!!!) Göringa, pak přešel do Kaltenbornu, což byla instituce Hitlerjugend, kde se v průběhu války vypracoval až na vedoucího.
Jako Francouz totiž nemusel pro nácky bojovat na frontě a moh tak zastávat tyhle funkce.Nutno podotknout, že tenhle obr byl o čtyři levely víc Dan Nekonečný než samotnej Honza Nedvěd - od mala si myl hlavu v záchodě, krmil holuby z vlastní pusy, jedl jen syrový maso a měl strašně malýho pindíka a 72 dioptrií.
This is the weirdest WWII book I've read yet.The Erl-King deals with the question of what happens to the sinister in times of war: people who likely, and in this case definitely, would have ended up in the penal system - what happens when they slip through the net and into a society of upheaval.At least, I think that's what it was mostly about?Over the Erl King's six uneven sections we follow the life of Abel Tiffaugues, switching sporadically between his whimsical narrative and the third person.
If it had stayed with Abel’s narrative for the entire book one could argue that it is a character study but of course it does not.Like Abel himself, the book doesn’t quite fall into any bin.I’m not sure if it’s worth reading, but if you can try it in the original French.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
This is what happens to Abel Tiffauges, the son of an auto mechanic, who despite his height is treated like dirt at a Catholic school and ends by inheriting his father's garage.Along the way, he develops some strange ideas regarding children.
In the end, Tiffauges is so successful in finding prototypically Aryan-looking recruits that he develops a fearsome reputation in the Prussian hinterland:This warning is addressed to all mothers in the areas of Gehlenburg, Sensburg, Loetzen and Lyck!BEWARE OF THE OGRE OF KALTENBORN!He is after your children.
The ending of Michel Tournier's The Ogre is exceedingly strange, and not altogether successful.
–Smiri se, sine, spokojan budi:To kroz mrtvo lišće vetar bludi.
–“Volim te, zanet sam tvojim lepim stasom;Ne kreneš li milom, oteću te, časom.”Oče, oče, sad me zgrabio iz mraka!Boli me zagrljaj Kralja-Vilovnjaka!Oca prože jeza, pa jurnu još jače,A u naručju mu dete rida, plače;U dvorište s mukom i skršan ulete,A u zagrljaju već mu mrtvo dete.Roman opor.Prva glava je pisana u prvom licu (Zlokobni Zapisi Abela Tifoza), kasnija poglavlja vodi pero sveznajuceg pripovedaca da bi se, povremeno, opet uplele lucidne i opskurne stranice Zlokobnih Zapisa.Fina recenica, krhka, veoma lepo izvajana.
If you answer no, people may be safe, but the cost will come elsewhere.” Either way I now see clearly why Prussia suddenly vanished.What instigates the mystery is the protagonist.
Abel Tiffauge is a fairly normal French guy despite thinking of himself as an “ogre” with his over-muscled shoulders.
At times he gets caught up in his private notion of the phoric, referring to things that carry.
Ancient spirits might carry things, too, if they existed.
Exceptional meanings, for this man, affect the ordinary incidents of life.The story and its musings take Tiffauge from the Paris garage he owns to German Prussia during World War II.
Hailed as the greatest living French writer, Tournier’s dark but amazing novel chronicles the life of a French citizen Abel Tiffauges, whose childhood obsession with an adolescent boy echoes throughout his life as a mechanic, a pigeon fancier and a soldier in Alsace. It is a book about the darkest sides of our natures and spans several countries and decades ending in Prussia during Hitler’s reign. This book won the coveted Prix Goncourt – the French Booker Prize.BEST BOOK I HAVE READ IN YEARS
Gooien, bijna.Het is dit soort boeken dat me naar de duistere diepten van de onder boekenwurmen zo gevreesde leesdip sleurt: het zuigt alle plezier uit de leeservaring, ik keek nog liever naar films dan een boek - eender hetwelk, maar zeker niet dit!
Zoals dikwijls bij ‘moeilijkere’ boeken ben ik bang dat ik me laat afschrikken door de stijve zinnen, door wat er niet wordt uitgesproken maar wat iedere ‘goeie’ lezer makkelijk van tussen de zinnen uit zou moeten kunnen oppikken.
Very difficult book.
When I read this book, i'm complain to think to Hannah Arendt and banality of evil.
This concept asks essential questions on the human nature.
Eichmann was a small poor man, Tiffauge, "The ogre" also.
In a totalitarian mode, those which choose achieve the most monstrous activities are not so different from those which think of being unable about it.
It is the discomfort of the book.
The king carries a child and saves it.
Tiffauge save one who escape fron dead camp, but he condemned hundreds of them.
And the latent paedophilia is unbearable.Very hard book
"The Ogre" in English. For those who like to get a bit of philosophical speculation in their fiction, and appreciate literature on a deeper artistic level, this work is a giant. I'm very hard-pressed to think of another 20th century work that provokes thought to the level this one does, and simultaneously satisfies the reader with a gratifying story. Full of postmodernist juxtapositions and examinations, this book will leave you wondering about everything from your own sexuality to the role of religion in humanity. Read alongside Kafka's "Metamorphosis" for a thrilling and confusing upset of your perception of reality.
Very hard book to get into, and I found it difficult to feel anything for the hero, it's a good premise with the main character travelling around Germany Tec during WWII, as both a prisoner and working for various men in history, but nothing really seems to happen.
Highly appropriate after just reading Gombrowicz and Sebald. I mean, if I was that kind of person I'd think it was 'meant to be.' Pointing towards some well-ordered sequence of events or something. It's a relief to know, in France at least, they still give awards to books that deserve them.
Livro perturbador...
Centra-se muito na violência da guerra e das barbaridades do nazismo (o que me desagradou por completo)O que destaco de positivo:- o diário "memórias" do protagonista Abel (parece que entramos na mente de um psicopata obcecado pela inocência das crianças);- as descrições de Prússia oriental, em especial do castelo;- alguns animais presentes (cervo e cavalo);- e o facto de basear-se na balada de Goethe "O rei dos Álamos""Quem cavalga tão tarde, ao vento e pela treva/ O cavaleiro é o pai, p´lo filho acompanhado,/ Pai que , nos braços seus, o seu filhinho leva, / Cingindo-o muito, a fim de ter agasalhado." ; " -Porque escondes, meu filho, essa carinha , tanto?
I was never really enamored with this story, which I sometimes had to push myself to continue reading. The quality of the prose was great though, and now and then there are sections which are very impressive, so I've given a four star rating. It is a prewar story in the first third, then a story of WW2, a rather unlikely one, but unlikely things do happen. It was in the initial edition of "1001 Books You Must Read Before You Die", but was dropped from the 2nd edition.
Ce poème commence ainsi :« Qui chevauche si tard dans la nuit et le vent ?C'est le père avec son enfantIl serre le jeune garçon dans ses brasIl le tient au chaud, il le protège ».Ce poème a aussi inspiré un compositeur : Le Roi des Aulnes de Schubert en 1821 (http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_U3uIl...).Ce poème aborde la symbolique de l'homme portant un enfant, symbolique omniprésente chez Abel depuis le pensionnat portant le nom d'un saint représenté avec un enfant sur son dos (Saint Christophe) jusqu'à sa mort en portant Ephraïm.Œuvre de Jusepe de RiberaAbel est un personnage complexe, obsédé mais cherchant à se maîtriser, il ne touche pas les enfants, mais se repait de l'odeur de leurs cheveux dont les mèches garnissent son oreiller.Il exprime ainsi son ambition :« Il ne me sied pas de nouer des relations individuelles avec tel ou tel enfant.
L'enfant portant une étoile jaune, Abel parle d'astrophorie.Le Roi des aulnes a obtenu le prix Goncourt en 1970.
Disturbing an powerful, the Ogre takes the reader through the scary psychology of totalitarian thinking by exploring the mind of a Nazi scientist during WWII.When Michel Tournier is mentioned to someone, you often hear comments like: "Isn't that the author who could only write about human sexual perversions?", but if you examine his work more deeply, you'll see that there is a lot more to his writing than that."The Ogre" is Tournier’s second novel.
This random occurrence sets the character on a disturbing journey the reader gets to witness in horrid fascination.This intriguing novel is divided into six segments, from which the first (and the longest) is the most fascinating.
It was not affected by the protagonist Tiffauge's mental state, the oft-almost random ruthlessness of his travels and the fates he witnessed or affected along the way, and finally the mythical nature connected to the cruelties of the Second World War. I found myself following Tournier's style and choices along for a ride with little to throw me off.This was partly due to the fact that, even though the book after one reading seems like a treasure trove that can be mined for meanings for the rest of ones lives whether by connecting it, for example, to the cultural-historical context or to myths and their literary interpretation, it kept itself together in a finely readable package even on the first try.
One: the parts about the woods and the “hyperborean light” of the East Prussian heath are what’s it all about (the stuff about France is –in my opinion- a sort of very long though enjoyable prelude).
The final two stages (Rominten and Kaltenborn) of Abel Tiffauges’ long eastward trip towards the burning villages of the collapsing Third Reich will definitely not leave you unmoved.
Two: I found the ending of the book (the last twenty pages or so) slightly over the top and a bit hurried.
My oh my, this is a strange and complex book, and possibly the first novel I've ever read that has left me feeling that I need to read it over and over to properly understand it.
A huge deal of praise must surely be due to the translator, Barbara Bray, for the difficult work of turning such a detailed and concentrated novel from the original French into English.
Everything about this book is remarkable.
It moves between third-person narrative and first-person narrative to focus more directly on his thoughts and experiences: so far, so not unusual.
But the appearance and the experiences of Tiffauges are very far from everyday, and his thoughts even more so.
The Ogre tells the story of a man who recruits children to be Nazis in the belief that he is protecting them.
Notable among these is the alternation between first-and third-person narration.
The book opens with the “Sinister Writings” of the protagonist, Abel Tiffauges, a first-person narration, switches in sections 2 through 4 to a nonobjective third person, and in sections 5 and 6 alternates between first and third person.
In spite of, or perhaps because of this stylistic effect, the novel is an impressive and thought-provoking story about the nature of man.
Michel Tournier: De elzenkoning, is an outstanding wonderful and phantastic achievement, the contence of which I don’t yet fully understand. One of the peculiar things is that the main character, Abel Tiffauges, tries to understand himself through myths and paradoxes, or rather, as he puts it, in inversions. The boarding school period is already a very weird story, but than this French prisoner of war – how bizarre – finds himself in a position as mentor of the Hitler Jugend. Horror is alternated with tenderness. Brrr. JM
Neabejotinas įžvalgos talentas pastebintis tai pro ką paprasta akis slysta nesustodama. Vizionierius, nuo kurio būdvardžių ir palyginimų pykina ir veža. Iškrypėlis, nes nežinau ar tiesiog fantazija gali kurti tokius sugadintus paveikslus ir supuvusius jausmus. Viena iš stipriausių, bet ir šlykščiausių knygų, kurias esu skaitęs. #Recom #LEBooks
