https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1862370.They_Were_Divided
The trilogy is composed of: They Were CountedThey Were Found WantingThey Were Divided.These titles are taken from the Book of Daniel, from the Belshazzar’s Feast, when a hand appeared and wrote on the wall:God has numbered the days of your kingdom and brought it to an end; you have been weighed on the scales and found wanting; your kingdom is divided and given to your enemies.This is how Rembrandt saw this episode:What Banffy sees in this Writing is the Advent of WWI and the end of Hungary’s Dreams.I would like to read a good biography of Miklos Banffy.
There have been deaths in the preceding two volumes but there are more of them in They Were Divided and, unlike before, it is major characters that are struck down.
There is, in the book, a very real sense of things coming to an end, of the end of an era, so to speak, and this means that it is the most moving of the three volumes.In addition to the deaths of certain beloved characters there is also the prospect of large-scale death on an international level.
But The Transylvanian Trilogy was a true delight, a Great Novel that really worked for me as a riveting story.Miklos Banffy was a count and politician in Hungary for many years, and he writes about pre-war Hungary with deep familiarity and a powerfully specific memory.
(Okay, I could have lost a bit of the political polemic, but only just a bit.) The personal struggles of Balint Abady, in love with a married woman, and Laszlo Gyoffery, the self-destructive composer, were as real and immediate to me as any contemporary novel.At the same time, as the trilogy concludes it takes on this larger melancholy.
He writes of nature like the more interesting parts of Stifter and his courtly scenes of gambling, dueling and drinking will remind some of Proust and Turgenev.I no longer think of Transylvania as the land of scary blood thirst that I only knew from Dracula movies - but rather a beautiful mountainous region characterized by a juxtaposition of traditional values and the growing pains of modernization - not unlike many other places in the world at all - and certainly nothing that justifies the constant transmogrification of Hollywood projection.I really enjoyed this trilogy and despite the fact that he's not an amazing writer - he's a good writer, a great story teller and it's a piece of history that I now understand in fairly dense detail.
Escrito de una manera que recuerda a Zweig (sin llegar a la calidad de éste), nos introducimos en la sociedad transilvana de principios del siglo XX.
Las largas fiestas de la incansable aristocracia húngara, las penurias de los trabajadores rumanos que también sufren abusos de “sus propias gentes”, los debates políticos que discurrieron, la marcha como sonámbulos de una sociedad hacia su propia autodestrucción.A mí parecer hay tres fallos en la novela: largas e “inútiles” descripciones, no hay un buen manejo del tiempo en la obra (una noche dura 100 páginas y 4 meses unas líneas), la trama de los dos primos es bastante floja, especialmente en lo relacionado a sus vidas amorosas.
But he had used none of it: he had just let it go to waste, burying himself here in a ramshackle cottage with a little gypsy whore, and yet he showed all the signs of being a happy man.Balint thought of poor Gazsi Kadacsay, who had killed himself in despair because he could not acquire what Count Tamas had carelessly tossed away.
He wondered if Gazsi's fate would have been different if he had managed to learn all that Tamas had learned; and would Laczok be so carefree and merry if, with all his knowledge, he had not abandoned his origins and turned his back on power and worldly success?
They Were Divided provides a fascinating eyewitness account of the last years leading up to WW1 from the point of view of Hungary, specifically Transylvania.
There is also a fictional story about the travails of a set of aristocratic families over several generations and a love story.
Some of the fictional pieces are slice of life gems that reflect both character and social mores.
Others, including the love story of the main character, are less compelling.
However, both as history and literature this is a unique and valuable work.
Stunning, just as good as the two first. After finishing it, I felt strangely lost; to part with Balint and Adrienne and all the others felt like saying goodbye to good friends. This whole series deserve far more credit, and a natural place in the canon of great literature.
I loved this trilogy so much! So evocative. Throughout the series I wanted to transport myself to the time and space. Really beautiful. I will definitely read these books again.
In Miklós Bánffy’s Hungary, there are answers but none is asking the right questions.
His is a searing indictment of what caused the fall of his homeland and the decline of his people, but written by a loving hand so that it becomes a layered story of beloved days of his youth.I wanted to give this review coherency because that’s what these books have given me.
But the questions that he answers are the questions of a man of his milieu, bonded by his class and his high standing.
This is the third and final volume of Banffy's achingly beautiful Transylvanian Trilogy. I find this painful to read in our current deteriorating European political climate. On another strictly literary level this is elegant classicism and great story telling. I love Banffy's description of nature and humans' relationships to the latter and to animals. The descriptions of binge drinking parties amidst frenetic gypsy music, or more elegant balls are in my view amazing film material. It is all so real and alive. Really a great classic European novel!
I loved this trilogy. Swept along by the plot, there's a deeper level of Banffy's astute political observations. It'd definitely merit a second reading.
4,5
Absolutely amazing.
4,5
The best of the trilogy. An outstanding portrait of a nation and Empire sleepwalking into WWI.
4.5 stars (5 stars for the trilogy as a whole)
This is the second volume of the trilogy, and equally compelling (see review for vol.I!!)
The Transylvanian trilogy might sound like a series of vampire novels but now I have read them I have a different picture of the region, and for that I am grateful.
Perhaps because the nostalgia is never allowed to blinker bitter truth.Banffy is a terrific storyteller, so even though there are lengthy passages of complicated Hungarian politics somehow this never totally interrupts the flow of the narrative (though I admit to glossing over bits).
There is romance, politics, history, nature and drama in these books, humour, too, (for e.g. the ridiculous nature of duelling, and the way some characters worship all things English), and melancholy.
As with the earlier books in the series, the novel is simultaneously a love story, a family saga and an elegy to the lost world of Hungarian ruled Transylvania, a world that was obviously very dear to the author's heart.It is difficult to describe the plot in detail without including spoilers, but in this final part the hero, Balint Abady, continues his difficult love affair with a married woman, as well as attempting, with variable success, to improve the lives of the local Romanian peasantry.
Marvelous first-hand account of a society on a precipice: Hungarian gentry in Transylvania in the decade before the first World War. Written decades later, in exile, by the former politician Miklos Banffy, I was astonished by how well-written this trilogy is.
But in addition to the men and women who populate the pages of his books, the trilogy is a glorious and variegated ode to the landscape of Banffy's lost homeland.
His evocation of the mountains, woods and plains, is absolutely breathtaking, even transporting.
Tracking a stag in autumn through the silent woods, climbing down an icy gorge to a frozen cataract, watching the earth awaken in spring, he truly takes you there.
This book is the first in the Trilogy Banffy wrote about his native Transylvania, the 'land across the forest' so different from the Dracula legends.
It is a profound and wonderful work that follows the character of Balint as he reckons with the changes in city (Budapest) and countryside in Hungary and Transylvania at the turn of the last century.
I still have not made my way up to the Carpathians, but I dream of a walking tour there, wandering in the forests I have come to love through Banffy's eloquence.

Einen zweiten Anlauf habe ich gebraucht, um den dritten und letzten Band der Siebenbürgen-Trilogie (ursprünglich 1940 veröffentlicht) zu beenden.
Im Vergleich zum zweiten Band nehmen die innenpolitischen Geplänkel noch mehr Raum ein, was das Lesen stellenweise mühsam macht.
Bálints Geschichte rückt stärker in den Mittelpunkt, die Erzählungen der anderen Figuren werden kürzer abgehandelt und zu einem, meist tragischen, Abschluss gebracht.
Insgesamt eine Lektüre, die ich nicht mehr missen will, aber auch nicht unbedingt noch einmal lesen.
Und ich gestehen, den kompletten Durchblick habe ich bei der Nationalitätenfrage und anderen Themen nicht gewonnen.
Oh my heart.
I didn't like the last book of this series very much.
After much, much back and forth, when you think the main characters are moving to some sort of resolution, everything flies apart again- but not in any grandiose or dramatic fashion, just a clumsy tumble off the shelf- and then the book ends.
epic, moving, romantic.
Perhaps that is fitting for the end of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, but it did not make for a very satisfying ending, and it retroactively besmirched (yes, besmirched!) the previous two books in my eyes.

The third and final volume of Banffy's epic series on life in pre-WW1 Hungary and Transylvania. I can't add much more to my comments on volumes 1 and 2, except to repeat my opinion that this trilogy is one of the finest pieces of historical European fiction that I have read. It won't be in every public library; I had to get two of the books through Inter-library Loan, but it's worth the effort.
I'm so glad that this book was translated so I could discover it and read it, but I'll repeat my comment on previous volumes that the read is spoiled by careless editing, which has allowed misprints to appear in the final product. I also am surprised that the translation won a prize because it allows ambiguity into the meaning at times and reads clumsily at others. As a story and a piece of writing though it is worth the effort.
This book seemed more fragmented than the first two. It's unclear if that was the author or due to translation, which is a bit awkward at times. But the last third and especially the ending were -- hmmm, what words describe a poetic sad ending? Overall, I'm really glad I read the whole trilogy. I have a much richer view of that country and the events, culture and politics leading in to WW1.
Great ending to the trilogy; the shortest book and more devoted to political events, it also has many emotional moments.I thought the ending was very appropriate and open to imagination at least concerning the fate of Balint and Adrienne - after all volume 2 ends the same in a way and then volume 3 brings the together again...
