https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/725052.How_to_Stop_the_Pain
The subtitle of this book is "Pain is Inevitable, Suffering is Optional." This book took the spotlight off the problem and put it on my heart. The main theme...judge not, that ye be not judged. It was great! I learned some very important lessons. One important lesson near the end of the book is "...we are who God says we are and who Jesus has made us to be. We have no other identity." Of course, Jesus made us totally accepted, forgiven, clothed in His righteousness. That is who I am in Christ. I highly recommend this book.
This book was really good. Oh the pain misguided Christians can heap on other Christians and non-Christians alike, just by judging instead of loving! Really opened my eyes to areas within myself that need to be worked on.
This is NOT fiction like almost all the other books I read. It is a christian book that deals with moving on, forgiving and not judging (those that have hurt you). I have read it 3 times and recommended it to many others that seem to be "stuck" in their lives and can't seem to move on. Excellent
Excellent! This book is life changing. It opens your eyes to the way we process offenses and helps you understand how to not let them control your future. It's practical and resonates with the soul.
Loved this book. Brought wisdom and truth that in turn brought freedom!
Great book..A little long the subject of non judgement but the premise was very good. Highly recommend to friends and family. Great advice on how to help others instead of trying to solve others problems. 1- “(Matthew 24:12). As mankind treats one another in destructive, self-centered ways, we create emotional wounds that make people afraid to love and trust. And the less we feel loved, the more pain we inflict upon each other. Thus the ever-growing cycle continues on, and pain abounds.
I really took my time reading (and re-reading some sentences/paragraphs) to let what I recognize in myself and the solution sink in. I'm still not 100% sure how to apply all that I've read, as old habits are hard to break, but I definitely want to live the better life Jesus lived and died for me to have!
If like easy reads do not read this book. One of the most challenging books to read because of how it makes you look at your own issues. Very real and honest and one that I would recommend if you like to grow.
Overall it's a good book.Overall it's a good book. It would be have been much better if there were real life examples. Good read
Read this book and had to take it in "bites" reading a couple of chapters at a time to help let the concepts sink in.
Particularily liked his thoughts on what we write on our heart each day, how we come to the wrong conclusions, how we attach significance and it is that action that causes pain and prolonged torment, that we can observe behavior - but the moment we try to determine the "why" we have judged, we cannot help anyone that we are judging, and ultimately, the antedote for judging is loving as Christ loves us - we must daily choose to love, not judge others.
This book is one that I keep going back to - transformational!
This is a tough read but well worth it. The book presents the concept that judgement can impact every facet of your life, if you allow it to do so. Dr. Richards encourages you to wrap your head around this, and instead walk in love. Scripturally sound and a real eye-opener.
Wow, what an amazing book!I had no idea how devastating being judgmental is to me. Self judgment has caused me years of pain. I am dedicating my life to live in love, which is promised to be a new realm I can't wait to experience...!
Life changing!!
This book was amazing a must read!!!
Theme: Judge not, that ye be not judged - what a great reminder - so many things to focus on after reading this book, it might be one I pick up to review and reset my thinking again in the future.
Really good book dealing with the wounds of the past. Looking through bitterness and judgementHe gives good insight about how to deal with them.
Life changing concept for me: to stop trying to know the "why's"-- both with God and others.
Amazing truths about how we allow others' actions to injure us.
a very helpful and interesting perspective on how learning to live God's love not only increases the health of your relationships, but can also improve your physical and emotional health
wow this book made me cry alot. I didn't know I had it so wrong. Great book want to give it to lots of people.
GREAT book!
This is a book that has the potential to change lives if given the thought it provokes. One of the best books I have ever encountered. Bless those who brought it to my attention!
The book had a lot of good thoughts on juding others, although I didn't agree with a lot of his interpretations of scripture. It was a helpul read but I was skeptical of many points he made.
