https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25422234-notorious-rbg
For every millennial who thinks Lena Dunham is an important feminist, pick up this tidy gem of the feminist movement and fucking digest. Ruth Bader Ginsburg is bae.
I'm not a feminist although I was once until I realised that I didn't want to stop at having equal opportunities and rewards in a man's world.
This is how I feel, that men must come into the women's world and that all of us must have an equal opportunity to fulfill ourselves regardless of sex (and race, etc).
Bader wants those equal opportunities to extend to everything whether it is time off for both men and women for child care, to insurance, to the military and most important of all the right to decide what to do with our own bodies.
I'm still mad at RBG.Appointed by Clinton in 1993, Ruth was only the second female on the Supreme Court (That's right, kids: the mens used to think that mixing a career and family was too much for us.
The book, Notorious RBG, came out of a Tumblr started by two women who admired her work, particularly her dissenting opinions when the Supreme Court eroded the Voting Rights Act.
The biographical bits were broken down by subject focus, such as her very early years, academic life, family life, her work pre-Supreme Court, her relationships with other Court members, and her relationship with her husband.
Notorious RBG: The Life and Times of Ruth Bader Ginsburg “So now the perception is, yes, women are here to stay. And when I’m sometimes asked when will there be enough [women on the Supreme Court]? And I say when there are nine, people are shocked. But there’d been nine men, and nobody’s ever raised a question about that.”“Women will only have true equality when men share with them the responsibility of bringing up the next generation.”  Ruth Bader Ginsburg **************************************
*********************************************Let me first say that reading Notorious RBG: The Life and Times of Ruth Bader Ginsburg didn’t make me a Ginsburg fan, I was already one, so from that perspective author Irin Carmon was really preaching to the choir.But it wasn’t until I read this short, very entertaining biography that I realize how much this woman had accomplished even before she got appointed as only the second woman Justice to the US Supreme Court by former president Bill Clinton.When I thought of Feminist icons the names that came immediately to mind were the likes of Simone de Beauvoir, Betty Friedan, Gloria Steinem or Maya Angelou.
This delightful book is a love letter to Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg.
A well-written look into the work she has done on behalf of women for the past 55+ years (it was conversational while obviously incredibly well-researched, and as a reformed lawyer I appreciated the way the authors described the legal system in a way that was both accurate AND accessible), as well as a beautiful tribute to her marriage to Marty Ginsburg.
I cried several times, was inspired to fight harder for the things I believe in, and couldn't put it down.
Having this story in my life for the past few days has been so much fun.
Therefore, I'm changing my rating to 5 stars.Notorious RBG gives you a glimpse inside the life and iconic career of Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg.
Her perseverance is a reminder to never give up on your dreams, stand up for what you believe is right and keep pressing forward.Honestly, I was initially intrigued by the cover art because seeing Justice Ginsburg wearing that tilted crown instantly reminded me of a photo of The Notorious B.I.G. I picked up the book and when I saw that each chapter was titled after lyrics by the late rapper (one of my favorites by the way), I was sold.
I had just finished listening to Notorious RBG when news broke of Antonin Scalia’s death, and I’m glad for it, because I had a much more nuanced reaction than I would have had without the benefit of the insider knowledge Carmon and Knizhnik provide about the unlikely friendship between outspoken Reagan appointee Scalia and surprise feminist icon Ginsburg.
Although I could never match her passion for the law or relentless work ethic, I enjoyed reading about them, in much the same way I'd enjoy a book about an ultramarathoner.
I suspect I'm giving 5 Stars to RBG rather than the book. What a woman. I don't cheer at the end of movies. I think it's dumb. I just want to say, "They can't hear you!!!"But I felt like cheering after reading a few of her dissents. She's all class....and I guess the book is okay.
I didn’t love the structure of this book, mostly because it was very reminiscent of a textbook and also, I didn’t really get the Notorious B.I.G. piece. I understood it but I didn’t really get how it added anything. Then again, I’m not the intended audience. RBG is a badass. She deserves all respect, attention, accolades and (potentially) her cult status. I’d rock an RBG t-shirt. I’m not sure why she didn’t in the photos. That would’ve been epic!5 stars for the woman, 3 stars for the book.
Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg is such an inspiring person — she's spent much of her law career working toward empowering women and seeking gender equality.
My favorite parts were about her experiences as a female law student, the gender discrimination cases she's worked on, and stories about her marriage to Marty, who was by all accounts an amazing husband and partner.
I highly recommend this book to those interested in the women's movement or the Supreme Court.Favorite Quotes"The study of law was unusual for women of my generation.
I think gender discrimination is bad for everyone, it's bad for men, it's bad for children.
This was a selection of one of my book clubs.
I admit it's not a book I would have chosen to read on my own.
And it starts off very dry.
The first time I read that at one point in time, women weren't allowed to tend bar, I found it interesting.
But after I'd read the same comment from about the fifth time, I wanted to tell the author to find a new point to make.
This is a short book and can be read in a few hours.
There seems to be more appendix than actual book.
Both were looking for equal rights under the law.The book is a loosely chronological description of R.B.G.’s upbringing and early schooling.
Women will never be free unless men are free of their traditional roles as well.That angle, freeing men from the constraints of societal expectations, proved popular in the courts and made it a little easier for her to introduce the obvious “next step” into women’s expectations of equal opportunity.
She wanted interested people who were not lawyers to be able to understand the substance of what had been decided.
This is a fun, informative examination into the life of one of my personal heroes. It doesn't give the kind of depth that an academic bio would provide, but it gets the job done with humor and admiration. Now there's a coloring book, so I guess I'm gonna have to jump on that trend:
https://guninactone.wordpress.com/201...A few things I took away from this delightful book that should convince you to read about an amazing woman.RBG is in her 80’s and does 20 push-ups a day.
Her daughter is quoted as saying “Mommy does the thinking and Daddy does the cooking.” RBG is an opera lover (something she shares with Justice Scalia in a truly fascinating friendship) and has said “If I had any talent that God could give me, I would be a great diva.” Notorious RBG, Supreme Court Justice to opera diva, amazing.RBG and Marty had what appears to have been a true partnership.
Very cute. Heavy on pics and light on substance but it was a super fun read. I can imagine a 14 year old girl reading this and deciding to go to Law School to be the next RBG and that's a great thing.
5 stars for the woman, 3 stars for the book.The book itself was a bit dry with an awkward structure and a dull narrator, but the content was fascinating. I started this audiobook to try to learn more about RBG and I certainly accomplished that. However, I think the formatting could have been a bit more compelling. I think I'll continue reading more about RBG as her personal and professional career is #inspiration. goodreads|instagram|twitter|blog
Co-author Shana Knizhnik created a blog in 2013 devoted to the Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg.
The blog led to the publication of this book several years later.This book is a collaboration between Knizhnik and Irin Carmon, a journalist who interviewed Ginsburg for MSNBC.
The text covers Ginsburg's life, key legal cases, and important Supreme Court decisions.
If someone is looking for a detailed history of the Supreme Court, this is not the book to read.
This book covers the legal highlights of Ginsburg's career, especially cases involving equal rights.
"Notorious RBG" can serve as a steppingstone to more detailed books about the Supreme Court.
Which, you know, fine, it's called "Notorious RBG" so it's obviously not supposed to be the last definitive word or anything, but a bit more depth would be nice.Here's an example: one chapter ends with Ginsburg leaving America for Sweden to live for a year and research a book on Swedish civil procedure.
This section is about 3 pages long, and concludes "It would be a few years before RBG realized just how much she had learned in Sweden.
Whatever it is she learned in Sweden that changed her life will have to be a mystery to us!The whole book is like this, really.
I knew before I read this book that I liked Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg.
Their marriage was fantastic and I love the fact that they each didn't seem to have an ego where the other was concerned.
(I also love the fact that Marty pitched in at home while Ruth was working.
It seems like that's still rare now, so you can imagine how rare it was decades ago.)If you need or want to know more about "Notorious RBG," this is the book for you.Highly recommended.
An amazing book about a totally remarkable individual who has given so much to this country. Her devotion to the constitution is unfailing. There are numerous pictures that follow RBG through her life. At 83 she has faced monumental adversity yet came back stronger and more determined every time. With no desire to retire from the bench, I can only look forward to great things from this irrepressible woman.
This book is a joy to read - beautiful, educational, inspirational, and lovingly written by enthusiastic young admirers of this fascinating woman."Fight for the things you care about, but do it in a way that will lead lead others to join you." RBG has spent her entire life working for equality for everyone.
RBG is not a revolutionist - she works within the system, and chips away at laws standing in the way of personal freedom and equal opportunity, one at a time, educating us, and her fellow justices, along the way.RBG has graduated as one of only nine women at Columbia law school.
In the end, however, I realized that this book actually is a new favorite, and, if I were trying to find critiques in order to justify a lower rating, I would have a very difficult time of it.You see, while I might normally point out that parts of this book are incredibly lighthearted to the point of being downright silly, I can hardly call that a fault when it's an intentional and, indeed, vitally important, characteristic.
I had to put this down quite a few times and choke down rage over the legal and social discrimination women (and men) faced, but I'd pick it up again and then be relieved to see how RBG came at the cases methodically, working incrementally to dismantle a system that saw women as property or less worthy (or men as less worthy of being caretakers!).
I had no idea she'd been with the ACLU, and her decades-long love affair with her husband was beautiful to read about.
I really, really recommend this as an introduction to an amazing woman and pioneer in gender equality.
Washington D.C. was plastered with posters saying “Can’t spell the truth without Ruth.” Knizhnik teamed up with Irin Carmon, a journalist to write this book.I have read a number of biographies about Ruth Bader Ginsburg but this one is a bit different.
The authors are young and bring a different view point of the life of Ginsburg.
The authors cover the usual biographical information as other books but also devote more time to Ginsburg’s current life, for example a whole chapter is devoted to Ginsburg’s exercise routine.
I didn't know anything about this book at the outset, only noticed it had a long wait at the library - so I jumped on that bandwagon.
I assumed it was a graphic novel/comic book.
But in the end I learned many things I didn't know about "RBG", e.g., that the Justice apparently embraces that name (and "Notorious RBG"), although I still cringe to repeat it.
Lastly, intrigued me that the only other Justice never discussed, merely named just once (I believe), is good old Clarence Thomas.
So although I still have no evidence-based idea what Ginsburg thinks of him, the omission leaves me believing what I have always assumed.
Oh, my heavens. RBG is a fave. This book, although it read more like a textbook than a bio, does her life and her career justice. (Hahahahaha. ???) I didn't think I could adore her more, but I do after reading this. And, thanks to the journalistic style of writing, I actually understand more of the nuances of cases past (Roe v. Wade) than I did before.My big takeaways: Believe with conviction, and act strategically, collegially. Play the long game. Feminism is truly for everyone's benefit. I will be much smarter about my dissents from now on.
The authors interviewed Ruth Bader Ginsburg as well as her family, close friends, colleagues and clerks, in addition to extensive research into the archives at the Library of Congress.
There is also extensive research into the legal career of RBG and her continuous championing of equal rights for all of us.
Ruth Bader Ginsburg has long been one of my heroes and I continue to rely on her strong and inimitable voice on the Supreme Court.
"As a marshal cries 'Oyez, oyez, oyez!' watch Associate Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, known around the court as RBG, as she takes her seat at the winged mahogany bench.
Without getting too preachy, this is one of the most inspiring books about feminism in practice that I've ever read.
RBG is an inspiration on many levels, but a few things really stuck with me.
While she remains committed to feminist ideals, she truly embodies what feminism is all about - equality of the sexes.
Of course, she has also weighed in on sexism against women, calling it out even today when confronted by sexism at the highest levels of our judicial system.
RBG's marriage and partnership with her beloved husband of 56 years also provide a compelling example of what an equal partnership can look like in a marriage.
One of the best takeaways from the book is how RBG went to great lengths to show respect to every person, especially people on the opposite side of any given issue.
She is a champion of women's rights, many that we take for granted now, even if they've only been around for a few decades (like having pregnancy covered with health insurance, or being able to go back to a job after maternity leave).
However, RGB continually repeats that she is a proponent of rights for all people, and that rights for every person helps every family.
