https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7942.Back_to_School_with_Betsy
This is a cute little book series and those kids who enjoy Beverly Cleary books will enjoy these as well. They were however published in 1943 so traditional gender roles are presented and there are a few problem ways in which people are described. In this particular book, it is that Betsy wants her next sibling to be a 'little black baby.'
But...my kids still love to read about her childhood, and that is why I'm reading this series.
I think it is remarkable how much they relate to her, even though they don't have nearly as many friends as Betsy does, go to school, or have a friendly policeman friend.
I guess it is because Betsy is caring, and all kids are caring.
It's neat to see my kids care about what she cares about.
Many authors portray children as uncaring and selfish.
That gets old for me.
The Betsy stories may be old fashioned, but the attitudes and depiction of the children, adults and animals are refreshing.Bring on the next Betsy!
Finished this one up a week before third grade starts. Next year, Betsy and the Boys.
I found it in the library at Christ the King school in first grade and as I got older I would secretly hide it in my book pile at the library to only read it one more time.
The best part of this book is that it was written so long ago but yet displays interracial adoption.
If I found this book on the shelf in the library today I just might have had to sneak it into my adult pile for one more read ;-)
I have been looking for these books everywhere and I am so glad to have finally found them!
While my friends in elementary school were always checking out the more "popular" books in the library, I found myself coming back to this series again and again.
I'm pretty sure I read every book in the series at least twice!
I'm a little perturbed to discover that they've been re-released with a more modern cover, because I actually prefer the vintage look.
Brings back so many memories and should I stumble across these somewhere, I may just have to read them again!
In which I learn not to reread some childhood favorites. I remembered liking this book. I had a fond feeling in my heart when I flipped through the illustrations. After rereading, I'm not sure what I liked. Maybe it's just dated (I did laugh out loud when little Betsy begged her mother to adopt her "a little colored baby"), or maybe kids' books now are so much more complex and realistic. Either way, I was disappointed that Betsy and her friends didn't buy their teacher a monkey as a wedding present, and disappointed in the book.
I happened to see a Betsy book on a bookshelf on someone's blog and I knew that Betsy and I had to have it. Turns out it's a whole series from the 1940s. Betsy's grandma bought her 3 of them for her birthday. This is the first one we read.I am delighted to report that Betsy and I are huge fans of Betsy. Each chapter is a beautiful little story with fun little twists and morals. My Betsy is captivated by the adventures of these children from more than seventy years ago.
I liked Back to School with Betsy. They got a chicken in the end chapter and it turned out to be a rooster. They went on a sleigh ride and Betsy's father. Betsy's father had a dream once where he was in a sleigh and he was with Santa Claus and they went to an old inn and there were two dogs talking to each other. There was a fire. The dog said I'm a hotdog!
I liked it a lot. Betsy's neighbor married Ms. Grey and Betsy was so happy. She also got to go on a sleigh ride with Santa's twin brother. I was wondering who the new teacher would be and it was Mrs. Ross.
I love these books! They have nice little stories and fifties pictures to go along with them. Great read-alouds for the kids.
cute, short and sweet.
570L
http://www.bookcrossing.com/journal/5...
I love these books! I was a bit confused by the title of this one. It didn't have a lot of Fall related stories like I thought it would. It was her whole school year.
