https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/137971.Chain_Letter
When I was in junior high, I remember constantly checking in at the local stationery store to see if they had the latest Christopher Pike book.
His books were so full of suspense, darkness, and psychology, such a dramatic change from the Sweet Valley High and Babysitter Club books I was reading just a few years before.
I remember Chain Letter being the most intriguing and sinister of the bunch, although, looking back, the books were pretty scary and disturbing.
On second thought, Pike's "Slumber Party" was even more frightening.
Between terminal disease books like "Six Months To Live" and ones about slumber party massacres, no wonder I had such trouble sleeping as a kid...

With every request Alison will find out things about her friends she never knew, get closer to the boy of her dreams and be forced to face her worst nightmares.I loved this book.
It started out reminding me of I Know What You Did Last Summer (big horror fan here) but still I loved every minute of it.
And there were bits and pieces that would make everyone a suspect but if you paid close attention from the beginning till the end you can figure it out, just like I did.
I literally couldn't sleep until the book was over, so I stayed up till 4am to finish it.
Chain Letter was the first book I ever read that really got me excited about reading. I was 13 at the time (some 20ish years ago). I have never forgotten the trip to the grocery store where I happened to see the title of this book and immediately decided I had to have it. I have (over the years) read EVERY SINGLE Pike title and have over 30 of them still on my bookshelf today. I have read them over and over. Chain Letter will always be my favorite, as it was my first.Christopher Pike's books never disappoint.
One character decides that a serious threat of kidnapping and/or death would be better than starting a rumor that she's a lesbian.
Another makes a reference to "putting up a good fight" towards keeping her virginity on her first date, which is a seriously creepy metaphor.And just like in Whisper, the female protagonist takes an unfair level of blame for all the book's drama.
She bears as much responsibility as any of the group for the aftermath of the original accident, but she takes on an extra helping of guilt for the sin of turning down a date.
I have never felt more alienated from my 12-year-old self than I did when re-reading this book.
Those characters were written as though the story might as well have taken place during the 50's -- "Tony" and "Alison" belong more to teens from the 80's a lot more than "Kipp" and "Fran" -- and the way they spoke reflected that too.
Joan is called a "jerk" (might as well straight up labeled her a bitch, Pike) for speaking her mind and being sexually confident around guys, but even she gets written as fighting over Tony with Alison, because, you know, girls.
A group of friends have covered up an accident--or a crime.
An ominous person calling himself "The Caretaker" knows all about it.
Worse, what if The Caretaker is one of them?
The best part of the novel was the setting of one of the character's homes, a deserted housing tract in the desert.
Pike's usually ever present supernatural twist is not involved in this book, but there is so much hinted mystery, you forget to miss it.
Far less bloody than most of Pike's books, it is, nonetheless, chilling and downright scary--to the point that I've put off re-reading it.
I pretty much always know why I don’t like something, but there’s a special magic that goes on in loving things that makes it difficult to quantify.
It’s been at least that long since I’ve read some of his books though, and occasionally I get hit over the head with an overwhelming need for more Christopher Pike in my life.
The backstory is almost identical to I Know What You Did Last Summer, which I remember reading a long time ago and thinking wasn’t any good.
It’s rare to come across a storyteller as consistently strange and gifted as Christopher Pike, but it’s the thing that’s always drawn me to him most.
Would todays kids know what chain letters are?
I FELT it, you know?Pike likes to up the ante in his books and he doesn’t hold back on my punches, that’s for sure.
He gets right down to it in CHAIN LETTER and doesn’t leave anyone behind.
Getting a random letter in the mail from someone is creepy enough but having it make demands and then threatening physical harm if they’re not followed through is downright terrifying.
Yes, it’s a silly book with some contrived dialogue and poorly-developed characters (although I do think Pike did storytelling better than most of his kind) but it’s still creepy.
Granted, Pike's book came out in 1986, and the movie nine years later, but it was so close the credits should have read "based off the book CHAIN LETTER by Christopher Pike." So you have these kids that get drunk one night and run over a guy on accident.
Love Christopher Pike, and it may be that I obviously have out grown the teenybopper storytelling plots of Young Adult fiction, but I still have like 30 more books to go through so we'll see just how grown up I actually am :P
His books are complex enough to be interesting but short enough to only take about a day's worth of reading.Chain Letters either through the mail (pre internet days) or via email always close with a threat of bad things happening if the chain is broken.
Chain Letter follows a group of high school friends who witness those bad things first hand.Alison and her friends are listed on a chain letter sent by the mysterious "Caretaker".
Although Chain Letter isn't as highly rated as its sequel, I enjoyed both and think they complement each other.
Classic Pike.Favorite Quotes:"But that's insane!" Brenda protested.
She was angry.
Fran was shaking.
Alison was confused.
In a way, they all felt the same.""Brenda told me she did.
And Brenda never lies, usually.""She says she's not scared, but I'm not sure I believe her.
Maybe she wouldn't have, anyway; it was sort of a sentimental question to put to someone she knew only because she'd helped kill a stranger with him.""With a wedding you could always throw rice, but there seemed to be no good way to end a funeral.""The tone was neither masculine nor feminine, cleverly disguised, a barren neuter."
I remember reading this book when I was in grade school and instantly being hooked.
Years later I saw "I Know What You Did Last Summer" and thought "Hey, I read a book just like this years ago"!
Christopher Pike books were a great introduction to the horror/mystery genre.
His writing was appropriate for grade school and junior high.
I doubt I would love this book as much now as I did then, but I have no doubt that it was Christopher Pike who eventually led me to Stephen King and Dean Koontz.
Just one of the writers who nurtured my love of reading.
Gosh, this book brings back some memories of the 6th grade. We all passed around one beat up copy. I loved this book. I haven't read it in about 16 or 17 years, so I think I should check it out and see if it's still as good as I remember. From what I remember this was a really thrilling book. I agree with some of the other reviewers who said it was Christopher Pike's best and scariest book. I don't think any of my scary teen books ever living up to this one.
Definitely better than the Final Friends books. I like how the story is wrapped up here -- I hope the second installment isn't superfluous and actually brings something new to the table.
I did not get to finish this book but I will still write a review of what I read. The first part of the book is very slow and it doesn't give any suspense to the story. The author doesn't add any clues of what is going to happen next so I found myself getting distracted and lost when I was reading. I read many good reviews on this book so I picked it, but none of the reviews seem to come true from the chapters I read.
While she is getting the gun she hears a knock thinking it was her friends coming to see her she went to the front door to discover that her back door was getting smashed down and she knew it was time to take action she ran to the front door but it wouldn`t open.
She did live for decades but only by controlling peoples minds and she tried so very hard to get into Tonys mind and she did and almost made him kill Alison but instead he killed Jane and now they were safe.This book is an amazing book I really love the twists because it doesn`t for shadow anything til the end so your just guessing and guessing.
Chain Letter is a teen fiction book by Christopher Pike and was originally published in 1986.
Alison is a very likeable character, as she’s different, raw, and real.Christopher Pike was aiming for an exciting, suspenseful book with teens as the main audience, and he succeeded with this story about a group of teens being harassed by the anonymous author of the chain letter that starts of the story.If I’m being honest, I almost didn’t finish this book because the beginning was so slow.
Chain letter, is a book about teenagers who do something terrible and swear not to tell, Until someone does find out and holds it against them.
In the book, Chain Letter, the author never really said why he wrote it, or what the purpose was.
I think the purpose for writing this book would be to tell you that you shouldn't do bad things, or that there are consequences for your actions.
Knowing this, I think that the point of why he wrote it goes with the theme of the story.
He goes into great detail when he gives the group members a task to perform.
However, one summer night driving home from a concert they committed an awful crime.
However, someone, somewhere had a very different idea, and was determined to make them pay for that horrific night.
When Alison got home from school, she received a letter.
The letter explained that "The Caretaker" knew what they did and that they would need to do demanding, impossible deeds in order for their names to be taken off "The Caretaker's" list.
It could be some random guy who was there that night, Or it could be one of them.
You know the author has you hooked when he presents the problem in a life threatening manner. That is exactly what Christopher Pike did. Christopher catches the reader right in the first couple of chapters. Fran, Alison, Tony, Neil, Kipp, and Brenda go to a concert. Once they leave, they pass into a dark road, no other car is even heard, and Tony (the driver), hears something be crushed. They stop the car and go back to find a dead body. The friends bury the body 50 steps from the car. Some fri
That is exactly what Christopher Pike did.
Christopher catches the reader right in the first couple of chapters.
They stop the car and go back to find a dead body.
The friends bury the body 50 steps from the car.
This same group of friends had killed another man a summer ago, but the author does not go into any detail which annoyed me.
The friends must do dangerous and expulsion-worthy tasks in order for the “Caretaker (man/woman who sent letter, no return address)” not to hurt them.
As some friends decide not to do the tasks, some get hurt, others get kidnapped, and dead.
His work is well written and fun to delve into, and many of the evils his characters face are filled with all sorts of unforeseen shades of gray rather than the clear-cut black and white colors present in the works of many authors whose titles appear at the top of every bestseller list in the country.
Although this is not Pike's best work, it's not his worst, and I believe it would be an excellent introduction to the body of his titles from which one may have to choose.
chain letter was a good book.
people have said if i liked chained "Chain Letter" to read Lois Duncan's "I Know What You Did Last Summer," involving a hit and run too.
Chain Letter was a very good and exciting book.It is about a group of highschoolers that go to a concert.
School starts and about half way through the year they get a letter from someone they don't know.
some of their friends that were apart of the night when they hit the man, started missing.
i don't really read a lot but this book i couldn't put down.
i recommend this book to people who read mysteries.
In the Chain Letter, Christopher Pike writes about a group of kids who had something tragic happen to them the summer before.
It was easy doing to school when they thought no one besides them knew what happened, but one day Fran got a letter signed by someone named the Caretaker.
They spend the book trying to find out who the person is and how they know what had happened the summer before.
There is a lot of suspense and mystery, some things happen that I didn't suspect.
It also is a good portrayal of how people act when they are in high school.
I absolutely loved this book.
Christopher Pike did an excellent job writing this, it was very suspenseful.
He was very descriptive, I love how he went into detail about what happened that summer between all of the characters.
He also did a wonderful job describing the main characters, it was as if I could almost clearly see them.
Another thing that I liked about the book was how he he described the relationships between the friends.
He made it very suspenseful and chilling, though I was not able to put the book down.
This is my first Christopher Pike book and well I was hoping for more.
I know this author has been around and a long time and I have heard great things.
But this book for me lost me a little.
I got the idea of the "caretaker" but I think maybe the story dragged on too long for me.
I wanted to find out who the "caretaker" was but I was almost too bored to care once I was done.
I will have to try another book from this author before I make a call on whether I would read more from Mr. Pike.
not the best but hella creepy
I'm a fan of strong female characters, so it's truly infuriating to have to follow three books starring useless, shallow bitches obsessed with a man so much that they feel like they would literally die without them, yet the only thing they care about these guys is how they might fuck them.
See, this is why blow-up dolls should never be made into main characters.So that was three Christopher Pike books I bought and read one right after the other.
If you don't remember the phenomenon that was chain letters, this book might not make a whole lot of sense to you.
But if you do, then it's probably safe to say that this book is in your hall of fame, a circa mid-90s classic.
Although I remembered the identity of the Caretaker, that doesn't mean that this still wasn't an extremely fun re-read.
The generation after us grew up with Pretty Little Liars and Gossip Girl, but those virtual fearmongers cannot hold a candle to some of the really twisted outliers who starred in 1990s teen horror.
