https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/920442.Public_Opinion
This is put forward for much the same reason’s Plato used in criticising democracy: that it is too easy to be perverted by flatterers, that 'the people' are too blinded by their day-to-day needs to understand the great sweep of history, and that the masses are lead more by their loins and stomachs than by their reason.But this book also updates Plato by reference to what was at the time the latest in psychological research which shows that mere humans don’t cope very well with complexity.
His point that they *can not* be the same thing, because truth *can not* be delivered in easily digestible pieces, should also ring true to most critical minds witnessing the so-called "Information Age" play out.What makes Lippmann so unpopular is his "solution" to the problems of human ignorance and irrationality in a democracy: experts.
Experts help wrap up a real problem that Lippmann describes quite vividly, but Lippmann does not seem to accept that those who make decisions (who in his mind must be distinct from experts---and in fact he sees an institutionalization of independent intelligence gatherers protected from legislators and the executive) are still subject to the bulk of the problems he describes.
The images of Lippmann's prose alone--e.g. the Platonic, iconic "pictures in the mind," itself an almost mandatory talking point for those who pass through liberal arts education in America--guarantee that this book will repay reading and rereading.
As for those who dismiss or belittle Lippmann as an elitist ready to cede political power to the expertise of the few, I am not convinced.
But still, I am not convinced that Lippmann's views are--or ever were--principally incompatible with a healthy public and a democratic state.
It's no longer Dewey's democracy versus Lippmann's experts; it's time for Deweyan democrats to reacquaint themselves with Lippmann, and Public Opinion makes a great meeting point.
He denies "democracy" and discusses the federalist government, but I found that these designations are not as understandable in the modern vernacular.
The theory assumes a lack of capacity in people that is kind of upsetting, but it is easily understandable in the context of the civil and first world war that the school of realist democracy was reacting to.
He sites H.G. Wells history of the world which is a book that has fallen greatly out of use since a lot of science has changed since it was written.
Given what he writes about, Lippmann seems to believe that there is an objective world out there, the information of which can be easily manipulated and affect the course of politics, which he seems to be rather concerned about.
Public opinion is less of an incoherent mess in such examples, and people are at least closer to the very small number of leaders actually involved in decisions.The theme of stereotypes and the very limited points of contact we actually have with our world of information continues with more historical and political examples.
In times like these, when we sleep with screens feeding us images of war, it is important to go back to this classic. Emotions run high when photographs, pictures and videos rule our understanding of foreign affairs. It is equally important to realize how little information we actually have access to. Not so much has changed since the age of television:public emotions get mobilized together with armed forces, and, as we develop an aggressive tunnel-vision the enemy starts condensing into a target to strike . We must remember that, of all public emotions, anger is easier to ignite.
So overwrought with examples and anecdotes very little concrete information bleeds through. Man, what a blowhard.
Για την εποχή που γράφτηκε θα πρέπει να ήταν πολύ προοδευτικό.Ωστόσο για σήμερα & για όσα ανεφέρει, είναι σχετικά ξεπερασμένο.Έχει ωραία κειμενάκια όμως για μαθητές Λυκείου που θέλουν να τα πάνε καλύτερα στο μάθημα της Έκθεσης..
At times wonderfully poetic and pregnant, other times needlessly obtuse. A classic, or a piece of prescient writing, some might call it, the Public Opinion delivers highly relevant food for thought on media in (post-)democratic world.
However, it requires so much work to get through the intellectual psycho-babble of much of his writing it is just not worth the effort for the average person.
For this reason, I rated it a three.It seemed to me that his writing was more his effort to display his erudition than to communicate with his readers.
I believe that an author should write so that a bond is created with the readers in such a way that they can readily understand what the author is trying to communicate.
In this book, however, Mr. Lippman virtually shouts, "Look at me!
Look how erudite I am."
Written beautifully and with penetrating insights on every page, this book was a hard read due to the format and the text but the language itself, while not challenging, is elegantly wrought.You'll probably hate his conservative apologism and barely concealed authoritarianism (not to mention shilling for the future PR industry) but it is well worth reading as his critiques of politics and exposure of the problems faced by democracies deserve attention.
http://xroads.virginia.edu/~Hyper2/CD...
There is however one aspect of his theory which, in my opinion, needs further consideration: Lippmann seems to assume that people, even if not necessarily going to great length to do so, actually want to make well informed decisions most of the time.
(Then again I might have missed a portion, because I only had little time for the book and skimmed through most of his lengthy examples.)If you have digested a basic diet of post-structuralist and semiotic texts, you might find Public Opinion not to be a world-changing experience, but it is still well worth its time.
Incredibly insightful, clever, and as applicable to today's media and politics as it must've been when originally written. Lippman's analysis of the many abstract and underlying forces that shape the opinions we hold about the world is simply beautiful, and will leave you more critically aware and prepared to handle the many stereotypes and symbols used to manipulate the truth and our impression of it.
No words. Just read it, if you may have even a shred of interest in understanding why politics today works the way it does.This book changed how I think back of my time spent getting a journalism degree.
A timely read; thought provoking. A knowledge of American political and literary history is needed to understand all the references.
Elegant prose but so high flown as to be vague and more a matter of highly personal musing than clear exposition
Public Opinion is an insightful exploration of these questions, and the effects their answers have on how we govern ourselves.Walter Lippmann does a fantastic job explaining problems inherent in democracy.
All of us come to understand issues through direct experience.
The number of people who have the direct experience- those who have actually eaten at both restaurants- are vastly outnumbered by the people who are getting their information second hand.
Out of the vast pool of people on the planet, only a few really truly understand the problem and have direct first-hand experience with it.
A classic that must be read again from time to time to check how everything is changing in media and audiences
Lenin is not seen as anything more than a diversion and the other socialists and "anti-capitalists" don't have much of credible answer to the central problem that in modern times the citizen has interests that extend beyond a simple village community.
Lippmann himself didn't really have an answer, as the final chapters just tail off in to the problem of ensuring America has a serious civil service that can work in a non-partisan way - essentially, what the British already had, to fill their worldwide burdens.
Yet another quote from the text that outlines its general thesis:“Strategically placed, and compelled often to choose even at the best between the equally cogent through conflicting ideals of safety for the institution, and candor to his public, the official finds himself deciding more and more consciously what facts, in what setting, in what guise he shall permit the public to know. –  That the manufacture of consent is capable of great refinements no one, I think, denies. The process by which
Yet another quote from the text that outlines its general thesis:“Strategically placed, and compelled often to choose even at the best between the equally cogent through conflicting ideals of safety for the institution, and candor to his public, the official finds himself deciding more and more consciously what facts, in what setting, in what guise he shall permit the public to know.
– 	That the manufacture of consent is capable of great refinements no one, I think, denies.
The creation of consent is not a new art.
It is a very old one which was supposed to have died out with the appearance of democracy.
But I came to trust Lippmann's presence in the room and rely on him to guide me.
His most direct, sincere, and essential truth came in these lines at the end of his chapter, "News, Truth, and a Conclusion": "For the troubles of the press, like the troubles of representative government, be it territorial or functional, like the troubles of history...go back to a common source: to the failure of self-governing people to transcend their casual experience and their prejudice." From 1922 when he published those words to today, they hold consistent.
I would give this book a five star rating for importance, but difficulties with readability drag it a good deal lower.
Written over eighty years ago, Lippmann's style and (then) contemporary references present a significant challenge for the non-historian.
At the same time, several of the author's primary points are ripe with significance.
We stereotype because we must--there is simply too much information to process.
Public opinion can then be manipulated through the use of skillfully honed stereotypes.
This fact is probably more true today than it was in Lippmann's time.
Grasping this one truth alone is worth the effort to wade through the pages of this revealing analysis.
Fantastic read! In terms of literary style Lippmann stands with the best. In terms of political philosophy, his insights offer an usual mix of pragmatism and incisive profundity. While he is very much an 'establishment figure', he nevertheless maintains a significant independence of mind. Though in all likelihood it is this very independence that garnered him the high degree of influence and respect across US foreign policy elites that he ultimately enjoyed. Well worth the read for anyone interested in gaining some provocative, yet well reasoned, perspectives re the dynamic between policy creation and public opinion in democratic systems.
With Daniel Boorstin's The Image, this book -- which you should read first -- forms a diptych that bestirs a Matrix-style awakening, in which you'll look at the world you've inhabited all these years in a new, knowing light. Ideally, people would read these books before exercising their right to vote.Lippmann, a founder of The New Republic, is an elegant writer, though his tempo can plod, and much of his allusive material is dated to the Progressive Era. Still, bushwhack your way through this book if you have time to devote. Big brain nutrition.
When someone makes an effort to step up above the stereotypes of everyday life by actually trying to get into reality of doing things socially and then analysing the process, the people, the means and the results - then the books like this are the best illustration of what becomes obvious from experience. For those who has not started yet the path of analysis and research of marvelous reality - this book could be a great start.It is a book that is very hard to stop reading once started. Excellent narration style and interesting material!
Don't let the benign title fool you. This is one of the most explosive books ever written. Walter Lippmann lays out his philosophy of "manufacturing consent" through the mass media. He makes the argument that most people are too busy being wages slaves and/or too stupid to make intelligent decisions regarding matters affecting their own lives.Regardless of whether one agrees with his ideas or not, they are being used against us everyday. Anyone interested in how the dominant order uses propaganda to control the masses should read this book.
Very fascinating post World War 1 breakdown of public opinion, what this means, how it works, etc. I found it applying to everything from how elections happen (and how silly most media accounts of elections can be), to how judge panels rate a speech round. A little stuffy in the language and all, but altogether a great interesting read.
The material is somewhat dated and when it comes to his dispute with Dewey, I side with the Pragmatist. On the other hand the problem of spin, initiated by the powerful is still a persistent problem.
Versi klasik dari gaya analisis kritis Noam Chomsky. Lippmann punya ketajaman yang kritis terhadap gaya pemerintah Amerika Serikat membentuk opini publik, manipulasi media, dan propaganda. Karya klasik, padat, dan kaya untuk kajian komunikasi politik.
