https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/82472.MASH
Soon they’re joined by another surgeon, Trapper John, and the three alternate trying to save the lives of wounded soldiers with heavy drinking and outrageous stunts including trying to raise money by selling autographed pictures of Jesus and giving their camp dentist a bizarre form of shock therapy to snap him out of a suicidal depression.There are really no overt political or anti-war statements in the book, and there’s nothing like the liberal attitude that would later be incorporated into the show.
I started out the New Year with a plan to actually start reading books off that list!
The final book, MASH Mania, allegedly dumps the story lines created after book #2 and returns to the original characters, revisiting the three doctors in middle life.
Another television series, Trapper John M.D. was a spin off from the movie/first book, featuring Trapper John McIntyre later in life as a surgeon in San Francisco 28 years after his service in the 4077th MASH Unit.
If not, I can always skip to the final book in the series that returns to the original characters.
These extracurricular rebellious tendencies put them at odds with the by-the-book army brass, but with each immersion in "hot water" they save their skins by dint of their indispensable skills or by atoning via some self-sacrificing heroic act.Readers in general, of course, often complain about the inferiority of movie and TV adaptations of their cherished novels, but in this case the reverse is definitely true: this book is the inferior realization, which is not to say that it isn't overall a fun, fast and interesting read, at least in the sense that it shows how good ideas can become better realized later in the hands of superior screenwriters.
Following the lives of a team of military doctors during the Korean War, much of the plot and character traits remain the same but this book has a bit more action and drama thrown into the mix.
Written during the time of the Vietnam War yet set a decade earlier, it's an interesting look at the past through the eyes of the present (or at least, the present during the late 1960's).The characters are still as likable as ever, though rather incompetent, leading to a lot of strange situations throughout.
An interesting book that kicked off a movie and a twelve-year television series about essentially three doctors drafted into the Korean War. The author writes the chapters like episodes of varying length.
Trapper said..." after each line of dialog in the opening chapter and occasionally in other places throughout the book.
Corpsmen are navy "medics" and would not be serving in an army hospital.
No one signs up to be a doctor to work twelve hours shifts, day in and day out, patching together young soldier's intestines and removing shrapnel from their chest.
There are differences between the two - Hawkeye is married, Frank Burns has an episodic role, Hot Lips as well, and good old Klinger does not appear in the book, neither does col.
Flagg.Still, the others are all here: Radar, col.
Even if it is a hilarious story, you cannot forget even for a moment that behind all the jokes, there is a real war out there and real people who endured those horrors.
Same as with Hassel's books.But above all, this story is a tribute to those extraordinary surgeons and their team.
Richard Hooker's novel about staying sane in insane conditions by using insanity as an escape is brilliantly done. For anyone familiar with either the film or television series based on the book, it will provide a different perspective on the characters that you love and think you know so well. It is a very quick read that seems as fresh on the 100th go through as it did on the first. I recommend it highly.
This book was the basis on which the film and subsequent TV series were based on.
It is a fascinating look in to the world of a MASH unit during the Korean war.
This book is the first of a 12 book series of the exploits of the 4077th MASH unit as well as being the basis for the TV show (which incredibly went on longer than the actual war it was based on) For those who think they know the shows I strongly suggest they read this book as it presents not only a greater panorama of characters but also a far more realistic one to.

Some drafted doctor's do meatball surgery three miles from the front in the Korean War. They drink a lot, make a lot of mischief, fool around with a lot of nurses and play some football.It is nowhere near as good as the movie, and despite Hornberger's disdain for Alan Alda's performance as Hawkeye, a character he reportedly based on himself, it's not as good as the television show either.
But the M A S H book just isn't worth expanding upon.If you're a fan of any visual version of M A S H you'll like this book, if you're not a fan there's really no reason to reach the first page.(Man, you'd think I hate this book.)
I’m taking off one star because quite a few jokes are at women’s expense, also the descriptions of American football are incomprehensible if you’re British and hate sport.
“Where do you expect to catch mermaids?”“The river’s alive with them,” answered Trapper.“I see,” said the Colonel again.
“Do you have reason to believe that mermaids may be effectively utilised for that purpose?”“Oh, Finest Kind,” Hawkeye assured him.“Numero Uno,” said Trapper John.“Yeah,” said the Duke.Colonel DeLong departed to his tent to think.
The lesson here (and from several TV shows I could name) is that I’m willing to let a certain amount of misogyny slide if the whole thing is really funny.
The best and most startling book I've read in years.
I had missed the TV show before, because of young age, but maybe it turned out good for me.
Cause the read was nothing short of breathtaking.
For me is quite straight descent from Heller's "Catch 22", but I do not see it as a drawback, it definitely deserves a great share of praise on it's own.You'll find here awfully great characters, very brisk style and great sense of humour.
Aside from this, it is really heart-and-mind gripping picture of men, who did their job, and raised hell with such a unparelelled charm and impudence that hardly anyone will finish this book unruffled.
Not the TV show, not the movie but the book. Like most things I read, it's dark and funny. If you liked the movie, you'll like the book. Expect Elliott Gould's twisted Hawkeye rather than Alan Alda's Hamlet-esque tortured thinker. Plus Spearchucker Jones, Frank, Hot Lips, an explanation for Radar's nickname and a football game that even I'd go to. While this book is set in Korea, it's really more about the Vietnam War and does delve into some darker aspects of the Wars of the 20th century.
A strong book that conveys an anti-war message without being preachy, using characters that are quite flawed but doing the best they can in a grueling situation. Some of the interactions are dated and come across as sexist today, but that's where our culture was then. I believe this novel belongs on the same shelf with Catch-22, Slaughterhouse Five, and others in the same class.
I recall the first time I saw the MASH movie.
Yet I also remember seeing the line of MASH books by Richard Hooker, always lined up on the top shelf of the fiction section of my local mall Waldenbooks.
The football scenes were over-the-top slapstick in the movie, but just well described, and a bit less crazy, in the book.
I found myself laughing out loud a couple of times while reading the book, and those were short bits that I don’t think were in the movie – surprising and funny.
I know I've read this before, in high school I think, but I recalled very little while listening to the audio version.
All that was familiar were the bits of the book used in the movie, or later, in the series.
The book is a dark comedy, not ha-ha funny, but gives a good look at the realities of living in the middle of a war, and what surgeons had to deal with.
While the book didn't wow me, I'm glad I re-read it.
The book reads very much like the movie and I don't think I would've liked it if I didn't know the characters as well as I do from TV.
"Catch-22" is funnier, IMHO, and a much more scathing commentary on the insanity of war.Still, this is the book that launched the movie that created the television series that ran for so long, it became an icon of its own, and if for no reason other than that, it deserves to be read.
You don't get as much a feel for the war as you do watching the TV show, but the characters are a trip and the book is a fast read, I'll give it that.
I really don't have a shelf for this book, but I don't suppose that matters.As an avid fan of the TV series, and having seen the film when I was far too young to understand half of it (must have been about 8 yrs old), it was interesting to see where it all started.
I found myself skim-reading the descriptions of medical procedures, though here again I recognised lines used in the TV show.One thing that struck me was the assumption that when the doctors return home, they would just be able to pick up the threads of their lives like nothing had happened.
I vaguely remember seeing MASH on tv when I was a kid, but remember very little about it, so was able to enjoy this book without constantly comparing it to its adaptation.
Following primarily the 18 month tour of duty in Korea of Hawkeye and Trapper John, the novel was both a light hearted look at the escapades both men got up to to pass the time at their post, particularly when casualties weren't forthcoming, but also was explicit in its acknowledgement of the professional job that both men carried out when the circumstances demanded it.
A rather short story about a few men in Korea that played at being insane to stop from going insane.
Told in a series of vignettes centered on antics, the reader only captures brief sights of the horror or war and of forced participation, and is also very much stuck in the time it was written when it speaks of women or the native Koreans.
The book is better than the movie, but no where near as good as the show....
but it sets up the perfect premise for it, so I've got to give credit where its due to Richard Hooker.
I enjoyed this book. I remember watching the original movie not long ago, so it was nice to finally read the book. I liked the movie as well, but I loved the series. In some ways, I can't believe this book launched a successful movie and an even more successful TV series into existence. There was just so much in this book, that could have been developed a little further. But I still liked this. I liked the humor and I liked the spirit of American ingenuity.
Got about halfway and felt like I'd read enough. Very similar to the movie and less the tv show. Quite dark overall but interesting to see source material.
This book is a lot of fun.
It's the little things First: this is much more akin to the movie than the show, especially the late season episodes.
That being said, many of your favorites are here: Hawkeye Pierce, Trapper John McIntyre, Henry Blake, Hot Lips Houlihan, Frank Burns, Radar O'Reilly, and Father Mulcahy.
The surprise to me was the differences between book and "on film" reality.
Father Mulcahy is nearly always referred to as "Dago Red".
They could have filmed some of them, but they'd have bothered a lot more people.
I liked it a lot.
I couldn’t have read Shrek as creatively as the filmmakers did, but I enjoyed the experiencing of looking back and seeing all I couldn’t see on my own.I come to MASH the book after the film and after what, for many years, I regarded as the finest television series ever developed.
(I confess it felt a bit dated the last time I saw it – still brilliant but somehow tamer than I remembered.) As such, I see things in it I know I’d have missed if I read the book first.For starters, the first character we meet is Radar O’Reilly.
The movie was more misogynistic than the novel- some of the pranks in the film would be considered extremely cruel by today's standards, and the regular treatment of women almost equally as calloused.
(Hooker also includes facets of the effects of the war on the civilian Korean population.)In a mostly humorous (and relatively folksy, chummy, and collegiate) way, the books explores the effects of the unique stresses of combat surgery and its effect on the doctors.I didn't enjoy this novel as much as I did the first time- but it still ranks as a great piece of military humor.
If you've watched the TV series, you already know all of the stories. The book characters are a little different, but it's the same stuff. The 1950s language and sensibilities are pretty awful (everyone gets an epithet, which grates on 21st century brain). The medicine is there for flavor while Hawkeye, Duke, and Trapper John get up to no good. I gave my rating of the book an extra star just for nostalgia.
I was looking forward to the book in order to get the internal monologues of the characters I have grown so fond of.For those of you not familiar MASH is the story of the doctors and nurses at the 4077th surgical unit during the Korean War. Their days were a mixture of boredom and inaction broken up by deluges of wounded.
Almost cameo like.I will say that the book had a very distinctive tone.
If you're a fan of MASH like me, you might want to read this to see the origin of the show.
Otherwise there are better war books out there.
It's interesting how that you can become so attached to fictional characters.
I'm a booger I guess.There were little differences to be sure.
(view spoiler)[In the book Hawkeye is married and Trapper John is single.
Major Margaret Houlihan is about the same but plays a minor role.
Spearchucker Jones and Ugly John play larger roles, etc.
(hide spoiler)]I really enjoyed it, but I'm not sure if it would have really grabbed me if I didn't have an attachment to the show in the first place.
The first twelve of so chapters are largely episodic and could almost work as short stories.
I was very surprised at the many differences between the book and the show, although I still enjoy each of them.The story is a semi-autobiographical account (in which many of the supporting characters are also based on real people) of what it was like to be a surgeon at a MASH unit during the Korean war.
I didn't really find it to be political or anti-war in any way, but rather a look at what can come of regular people who are forced to endure such conditions.
M*A*S*H  is one of those rare cases where the film and/or TV show is an improvement on the source material.While Hooker's roman à clef about meatball surgery during the Korean Conflict in the early 1950s has its moments of absurdity, it also has virtually none of the pathos and wit offered by Robert Altman's 1970 film adaptation, and certainly none of the depth of characterization of the television series.
