https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59716.To_the_Lighthouse
It's a problem, dear VirginiaThey like stuff that's much more linear,I know your teeth you will grit
The lives of the characters are so rich in emotion that dipping into their world, for mere pages at a time, is like taking a giant bump of the pure stuff, getting tweaked on all the unbelievable wonder that is conscious experience.
Woolf seemed particularly haunted by the idea that what seemed to be a solidified conscious experience was actually a continual fluctuation of matter, on a physical level, and the consequential thoughts, worries and sensual bombardment, on the experiential level.
The main character is a beautiful woman “in full,” her eight children and husband and guests gathered around her at a summer vacation cottage.
Fifteen people in all at dinner, one a scholar friend of her husband who is in love with her, plus cook and maids.
Yet, with everyone else to take it out on, he seems happier than his wife: “Less exposed to human worries…He always had his work to fall back on.” Some passages I liked: At the dinner a young woman learns about her ‘golden haze.’ “Sometimes she had it; sometimes not.
Flowing to the breezy soundtrack of waves breaking upon the shoreline, To the Lighthouse investigates the frailties of life and human relationships in breathtaking prose through the minds and hearts of Woolf’s characters as they struggle to affect a state of permanence within an ever-changing ephemeral existence.Reading Woolf is like reading an extended prose poem.
These fears can only be subsided, our lives given meaning, if we can reach each other, understand and love each other, thereby existing forever in memory and framed by love in the hearts of those we knew.This novel takes much inspiration from Woolf’s own life (Mr. and Mrs. Ramsey being based on Virginia’s own parents, making this an elegy to her own mother as well as an elegy to Mrs. R) and doubly serves as a cutting commentary on the literary world in which Woolf was immersed.
How many prejudices we carry through life, even when we think ourselves to be incapable of bias.I avoided reading Virginia Woolf for a very long time, suspecting her and her privileged Bloomsbury friends of intellectual elitism and of believing themselves to somehow enshrine the essence of civilisation (E M Forster escaped this embargo fortunately).When I came across Charles Tansley, the visiting working-class academic who can’t seem to fit in to the Ramseys’ elegantly shabby lifestyle in the early pages of To the Lighthouse, I immediately aligned myself with him.
Virginia Woolf here gives us possibly the best ever description of her own writing method, especially fitting for this novel and The Waves – “Beautiful and bright it should be on the surface, feathery and evanescent, one colour melting into another like the colours on a butterfly's wing; but beneath the fabric must be clamped together with bolts of iron.
Lily Briscoe isn’t their daughter in the novel but essentially, through Lily, what we’re reading about is Virginia Woolf’s journey from stifled Victorian young girl to creative Edwardian woman.
Lily spends the entire novel trying to work out the truth of who Mr and Mrs Ramsey are.
My full review, as well as my other thoughts on reading, can be found on my blog.At its core a story about the attempt to respond to time's passing, To the Lighthouse brings into tension two days a decade apart from each other.
Both days take place on the Isle of Skye in the early decades of the twentieth century, and focus on the social life of the Ramsay family and the small circle of friends that they bring with them to their summer home.
The novel's second main part ceaselessly echoes and recalls the first, while its short interlude glides over the depths of the many things that change between the two days.
Virginia Woolf’s To The Lighthouse is an innovative piece of writing that left me feeling empty, neither happy nor sad, just blank and detached from the book itself.
Sure, you could talk about Woolf’s innovative style and how important this book is in the formation of English literature as we know it today; it clearly has impacted the novel as an art form.
I’m just left with a puzzling feeling that makes me form a question that lingers over my mind whenever I think about this book: was that  really it Woolf, don’t you have a little more to say?
Six -year- old James is very close to his mother, the shy boy, hates his father who intimidates him, like his siblings, are too, all the boy wants is to go and visit the nearby alluring lighthouse, on a tiny island.
Mrs. Ramsay, to soothe the anxious James, unwisely tell him that all will be fine, in the morning, naturally a storm arrives and the child is disappointed, his detestation increases against the father...Lily Briscoe, a friend of Mrs.Ramsay's, is painting on a white canvas, a beautiful picture of the island and sea, outside the shabby house of her friends, ( they are not wealthy) maybe even the lighthouse, the trouble is, she can not finish it.
I’m sorry...I just don’t get it?This book has numerous five star reviews, and while I understand it isn’t plot driven, the characters are so vague? They all kind of blur together so I never really knew who was speaking/thinking and when. So many thoughts flying around and I just didn’t see the point in them. I guess I just don’t have the mind required to appreciate whatever it is I am supposed to appreciate in this book. If someone would like to tell me what it is I missed that would be helpful, because I am just lost.
I read this book a few times before and loved it. I tried something different this week, and instead of riding my bike to work I walked the five miles each way while listening to Nicole Kidman read To the Lighthouse. Simply amazing. The words came to life and the language was superb. I didn't think I could like this book more, but now I do.
αφού τυφλώθηκες απο το φως των ονείρων σου και οικειοθελώς κατέστρεψες την ευκαιρία να κοιτάς μόνο εκεί που θες να πας.
Αν θες να ζεστάνεις την ψυχή σου πήγαινε αμέσως προς τη φωτιά των ονείρων σου, αν φοβηθείς τις φλόγες και το μεταφέρεις χρονικά, τότε φθάνοντας ίσως να έχει σβήσει η φωτιά, θα βρεις απομεινάρια απο ζεστή στάχτη ή ακόμη χειρότερα θα αισθανθείς πλήρη παγωνιά.
Ανάμεσα τους μεσολαβούν δέκα χρόνια.Σε ένα νησί,στο εξοχικό σπίτι κοντά στο φάρο δημιουργείται το πορτρέτο μιας ζεστής και οικείας οικογένειας - γονείς, οκτώ παιδιά- και των φίλων που φιλοξενούν απολαμβάνοντας παρέα τις καλοκαιρινές διακοπές.
If somebody asks me to pronounce judgement on TTL, I'd perhaps respond with an equally predictable 'It is the best book I have read yet' and realize instantly how vapid and insincere this answer is, how silly it is to call this Woolf creation merely a "best book".Currents of erratic thoughts, many of them contradictory in nature, are zipping past each other inside my head this moment and I am unable to articulate into words the fact of their individual existence as I open my mouth or let my fingers move over this keyboard.
Suddenly, everyone departs and we are left with only the house and grounds -- and the prose.A pivotal passage for my understanding of the role of the writing as character was this strange, awkward metaphor in the passage describing the night: The autumn trees, ravaged as they are, take on the flash of tattered flags kindling in the gloom of cool cathedral caves where gold letters on marble pages describe death in battle and how bones bleach and burn far away in Indian sands.What kind of literal sense does this make?
Like human thought, it sometimes breaks down, fails to follow a clear path, reveals biases.That this passages occurs as we transition into the Time Passes section is no accident.
686. To The Lighthouse, Virginia WoolfTo the Lighthouse is a 1927 novel by Virginia Woolf. The novel centres on the Ramsays and their visits to the Isle of Skye in Scotland between 1910 and 1920. Part I: The Window, Part II: Time Passes, Part III: The Lighthouseتاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه مارس سال 2004 میلادیعنوان: به سوی فانوس دریایی؛ نویسنده: ویرجینیا وولف؛ مترجم: صالح حسینی؛ تهران، نیلوفر، 1370؛ در 237 ص؛ شابک: 9644481992؛ چاپ دوم 1382؛ چاپ سوم 1383؛ چاپ چهارم 1385؛ چاپ پنجم 1387؛ چاپ ششم 1392؛ چ
شاید پنجره‌ ای برای ما برای شناخت قهرمانان داستان، شاید پنجره‌ ای برای قهرمانان داستان تا از آن به فانوس دریایی برسند، و شاید خود داستان که با راوی‌های مختلفی و به عبارتی دیگر از پنجره‌ های مختلفی روایت می‌شود، در این بخش، نویسنده ی داستان، یک روز خانواده رمزی را، همراه با مهمانان آنان، از زبان خودشان روایت می‌کند.
این روایت راویان مختلفی دارد، و همین یکی از برجسته‌ ترین نکات رمان است، که از زبان راوی‌های مختلف روایت می‌شود.
قسمت دوم کتاب: «زمان می‌گذرد» نام دارد، روایتی سریع از سرنوشت قهرمانان داستان طی ده سال آینده است، و اینکه خانم رمزی می‌میرد، خانواده ی رمزی از هم می‌پاشد، و دیگر رخدادهای کوچک و بزرگی که رخ می‌دهد.
'…so that the monotonous fall of the waves on the beach, which for the most part beat a measured and soothing tattoo to her thoughts and seemed consolingly to repeat over and over again as she sat with the children the words of some old cradle song, murmured by nature, “I am guarding you – I am your support,” but at other times suddenly and unexpectedly, especially when her mind raised itself slightly from the task actually in hand, had no such kindly meaning, but the ghostly roll of the drums remorselessly beat the measure of life, mad one thing of the destruction of the island and its engulfment in the sea, and warned her whose day had slipped past in one quick doing after another that it was all ephemeral as a rainbow – this sound which had been obscured and concealed under the sounds suddenly thundered hollow on her ears and made her look up an impulse of terror.'
Trapped thoughts that can't be told, but are then understood without saying, as the same reflection - like quantum tunneling - might wind from one point of view to the mind of a different character.Although a short novel, To the Lighthouse contains so many themes: vision and seeing, nature at odds with human life, time and its nonlinear movement, community and individual isolation.
I barley finished reading but looking back now it feels like a dream, something I read in the land of the subconscious, a warm glowing extraordinary emotional pitch still burns inside, all starting with the first paragraphs describing the heavenly bliss of a six-year-old boy cutting pictures of kitchen appliances out of a magazine, and ending with the Lighthouse in sight, even the parentheses in the novel's stylised middle section, was deeply strange, and all along I seemed to forget this was written some 90 years ago.
i love this book, and someday i should write a thoughtful review of it, but i have just discovered betterbooktitles.com, and this cracked me up:
In my first pass through Mrs. Dalloway I picked up her dramatization of dandyism and Pateran poise and feminine “grace of life”; in To the Lighthouse, I was especially struck by her treatment of what Henry James calls, in his preface to The Tragic Muse, “the artist-life…as a human complication and social stumbling block”; the tension of contemplative withdrawal and selfless presence — the janicular simultaneity of egoism as a revelation of spirit, and as spiritual imposture — having struck James, as it seems to have struck Woolf, “as one of the half-dozen great primary motives.” Both James and Woolf were children of voluminous Victorian sages attended by disciples but grotesquely dependent on their wives; reverend philosophers who had to be propped up while they brooded.
Until I wrote it out… I would be arguing with him, raging against him; saying to myself all that I never said to him.” With To the Lighthouse, Virginia finally said all that she needed to say, and we, dear reader, are rewarded with this beautiful catharsis.The first section is aptly titled ‘The Window,’ as the reader is given a spectacular view of the Ramsays vacationing in the Isle of Skye ten years ago.
Like Virginia herself, it is time for the characters to exorcise the ghosts of the past and move on (note that Lily is now 44, the same age Virginia was when she wrote TTLH).
And yet some passages ooze with frustration at not being able to overcome those insurmountable barriers, both physical and mental, that define our existence, forcing self-exploration.“(…) and one shrunk, with a sense of solemnity, to being oneself, a wedge-shaped core of darkness, something invisible to others.” Page 95Ultimately, Mrs. Ramsay’s chooses to sacrifice her individuality for the sake of love for others.
She suffers, art is sacrifice.I sat beside Mrs. Ramsay and Lily Briscoe and became myself.But the full magnificence of this novel didn’t come to me until the last part of the narrative.
-Honore de BalzacEvidently, Woolf could write with the hand what we see with the eye and perceive and articulate emotions whose depths remain fathomless.Woolf retains an imagery with dexterous strokes revolving around a family household with each character asserting its presence in the scene so strong it is asphyxiating the reader.
Charles Tansley’s urge to breakdown any impulse of freedom, Mr Ramsay’s egotistical ways of keeping the household under his thumb and Mrs. Ramsay ever-sacrificing motherly ways to keep everything together.In this canvas of interspersed sentiments, Woolf takes us through a journey of everything minimal and insignificant by reinforcing repeatedly the beliefs of the men deriving sympathy and attention and leaves us astounded by the sheer imagery of emotions of her minions.
There needs to be an astounding amount of skill at composing words, wordplay, descriptive lines running past each other so naturally that they are no longer black inkings on a white page.
To live for moments such as this, consisting of a book, a reader, and whole hosts of reaction mingling with recognition and realization.
Besides, I'm not a fan of using these words when I'm thinking on what to say about a book.
I think, in regards to this single, wonderful, exquisite piece of literature, it is enough.
Indeed, I wondered if I would ever find time to finish this book in the same way that young James Ramsay wondered if he would ever get to visit the lighthouse.But I was determined to finish!
Finally, the remaining Ramsay members gather at the summer home again, and this time, surely, they will visit the lighthouse.This book is such a classic of modern English literature that I fear I can't add anything to the discussion other than to say how much I appreciated it.
I loved the thoughtfulness of the writing, how Virginia would cover a scene from several points of view, and how characters would argue with themselves.
What soaring, penetrating, eloquent, unique, wonderful writing, that deserves to be read slowly and attentively, the inner voice attuned to the gentle canter of the meter, the rhythmic rise and fall in pitch, undulating like rolling waves, like the beating heart, like poetry.
All of these layers of meaning suffuse the writing and permeate the characters - their hopes, their desires, their fears, and their failures.The novel is about all these things, and yet there is so, so much more.
One has to have a central line down the middle of the book, to hold the design together."I think we’re entitled to ask what she meant by "nothing", although we might never know her answer.You could argue that she is using the word in the broader sense of negation and denial that I’ve mentioned above.However, I think there is scope to think of the lighthouse as a physical object that helps Lily to reject negation and denial and to complete the vision and picture that she had started, but had not been able to finish:"With a sudden intensity, as if she saw it clear for a second, she drew a line there, in the centre.
En "Al Faro", la autora deja la trama o argumento de lado para adentrarse en la conciencia, en la mente de los personajes para contarnos lo que les sucede en dos días separados por diez años.Personalmente creo que la primera parte, “La Ventana” tranquilamente podría haberse llamado “Mrs. Ramsay” (como otro de sus libros, Mrs. Dalloway), puesto que todo lo que sucede en la casa de los Ramsay, pasa por ella.
Los otros, prácticamente no tienen incidencia en la historia.Como decía y al igual con los personajes que conforman el la novela “Las Olas”, se mueven libremente dentro de esa casa y cada uno de ellos forman parte de un todo que a la vez nos da la impresión de leer un mundo de contrapuntos, de claroscuros.
If anything , ‘To the lighthouse’ is narrower in breadth and scope and characterisation than ‘Mrs Dalloway’, lets forget about social issues at all (which we had apropos post traumatic shock syndrome in Mrs Dalloway), and at some point, Woolf just seems to give up entirely, as if though creating different viewpoints is just too onerous a task, and so Mrs Ramsey, and Lilly Briscoe and Cam seem to merge into some sort of single narrative consciousness, a blancmange of sameness, or maybe just unapologetic Virginia Woolfness.
Al perder la personalidad, se perdían las preocupaciones, las prisas, el afanarse, y le subía a los labios una exclamación como de triunfo sobre la vida, cuando las cosas se reunían en esta paz, en este descanso, en esta eternidad.
Casi podían verse rozando delicadamente las paredes, meditando mientras pasaban, como si se preguntaran si las rosas rojas y amarillas del papel se marchitarían, y preguntándose también (con calma, disponían de mucho tiempo) por las cartas rotas de la papelera, por las flores, por los libros, todos abiertos para ellos, que acaso se preguntarían a su vez: ¿Son aliados estos vientos?
Eso era todo: una sencilla pregunta; que con los años tendía a hacerse más acuciante.
