https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/432391.The_Marsh_Arabs
I wonder if despite the draining of the marshes it might be easier for the way of life described here to return than that of the Bedouin in Arabian Sands?Thesiger spent a number of years in the early 1950s travelling around the marshes of southern Iraq.
The way of life in the Iraqi marshes was too settled and lacked the extreme hardship of the Empty Quarter, and Thesiger saw little in the marshes to match the ability of Bedouin to survive that had so impressed him in Arabia.
Wilfred Thesiger was writing about a way of life that vanished rather abruptly after Saddam Hussein decided to drain much of the marshland in which the Madans and other marsh Arabs lived.
For a period of seven years, he spent large swaths of time traveling among the marshes by boat and visiting his friends.The Marsh Arabs is a travel classic that was written not long before the way he described vanished forever.
"The Marsh Arabs" is a travel book first published in 1964 that describes the 8 years during the 1950s that Wilfred Thesiger spent travelling in Iraqi marshs where the Maʻdān or shroog tribesmen lived.
The author's intent is to write a lyrical tribute to a people whose style of life "had not changed for 5000 years".
However, despite the frequent poetic excesses, Thesiger's book provides an excellent case study of an archaic society collapsing in the 20 the century.
The best component of the book however is the stunning set of photographs which illustrate the daily life of the marsh Arabs.
He did it in the wonderful book Arabian Sands and he has done it here again with The Marsh Arabs.If you are familiar with Thesiger's books you will know that he has a passion for photography and he includes many photos in his books, more photos than you get in any non fiction published these days.
It had plentiful photos (all black & white) and I learned as much about the culture and lifestyle of these Arabs from the many photos, as I did from reading the book.
The workmanship and skill involved in making their dwellings, boats and large meeting halls have to be seen to be believed.
Their descendants are the modern-day marsh dwellers.Seeking to lose himself in a place untrammeled by the trappings of modern civilization, a place where people live as they have lived for many thousand years, Thesiger found what he was looking for in the marshlands.
In short, Thesiger experienced life with the Marsh Arabs as it had been lived for centuries.
Thesiger provides a fascinating glimpse into the life of the Marsh Arabs.
It could be unfair to rate three stars, but I born and grew in the Marshes of Dhi Qar, so I guess I know more facts the the author knows. from one side this book looks like a novel in the way of his writing about the protagonists, overally I like this book and I guess this is the better book wrote about Iraqi Marshes.
With some loyal indigenous companions and a store of medicines and medical knowledge to recommend him into unfamiliar society, Thesiger achieves a remarkable familiarity with the culture of the marsh Arabs.Thesiger’s style is matter-of-fact, with only the occasional glimmer of lyricism, but the culture and environment he describes are so far removed from one’s own, and consequently so rich in surprises, that the book is still wonderfully evocative.
The UN Environment Program has ranked this vandalism, alongside the deforestation of the Amazon and the draining of the Aral Sea, as one of the three greatest environmental catastrophes in human history (see the UNEP's report here).
I enjoyed Thesiger's book Arabian Sands better and debated about giving this one 4 stars.
Once I finished this book though, I realized it deserved no less than 5 stars.
Although I didn't find myself as absorbed in the stories of the Marsh Arabs as compared to the desert Arabians, I was nonetheless so impressed with Thesiger's ability to integrate himself fully into the lives of whatever culture he was living with, in this case the Marsh Arabs.
This comes through completely in his writings.
He was a master at his craft both in writing and in humanity.
Renowned British explorer/traveler Wilfred Thesiger gave us this fantastically readable 1964 book about the marshlands of Iraq and the Arabs who inhabited them.
Thesiger lived among them -- observing their ways, interviewing them, sometimes doctoring to them -- and frequently grieving along with them when their sons out-migrated to distant cities for technical education.
Sadly, Saddam Hussein later drained most of these marshes because he knew the inhabitants would not bend to the ways of modern Iraq unless their water was taken away.
Also recommended: Thesiger's intrepid "Empty Quarter" account Arabian Sands, 1959.

The author hangs out with the Marsh Arabs
It has been a while since I read _Arabian Sands_, and I had forgotten how powerful Thesiger's imagery can be.
The first chapter in particular is very poetic, and scattered throughout the rest of the book you can find occasional scenes of startling beauty, as Thesiger describes the life of the Madan, pieces of touching drama, or the otherworldly scenery of the marshes.
Where _Arabian Sands_ could sometimes be unclear, _The Marsh Arabs_ is just hopelessly confused as a narrative.
The constant lack of privacy.
The complete lack of respect for stated preferences.
This book is a sort of time capsule, having captured and saved for posterity an intimate, detailed, clear-eyed and very personal description of an environment and an entire way of life that no longer exists.
Regrettably, world politics, oil and despotism totally destroyed this unique world shortly after Thesiger's sojourn.
Perhaps even more impressive was the degree to which he was able to immerse himself in a way of life so vastly foreign to a European, the depth of personal friendships that he developed, the trust and respect that he won.
It could be unfair to rate three stars, but I born and grew in the Marshes of Dhi Qar, so I guess I know more facts the the author knows. from one side this book looks like a novel in the way of his writing about the protagonists, overally I like this book and I guess this is the better book wrote about Iraqi Marshes.
Curiously Thesiger made his reputation amongst the Marsh Arabs as an accomplished circumciser of local youths.
An elementary knowledge of medicine combined with a suitcase full of drugs etc enabled him to provide considerable assistance to the population in the marshes of southern Iraq in the 1950s.
Thesiger was a reactionary who hated social change; as such he seems fascinated by local ritual and etiquette.
This combined with his ability to offer medical assistance and to shoot pig and fowl earned him the respect to stay as an outsider amongst the local population until a coup against the monarchy prevented his return.
Thesiger's treatment of Iraqi geography and history is important reading for Americans, the new conquerors, to understand the complex religious nuances of the many groups of people in Iraq.
The Marsh Arabs show great hospitality and respect for strangers and a complex and rational sense of justice.
Thesiger's ethics, in administering circumcisions and other medical procedures for the Marsh Arabs are questionable, considering he is not a doctor.
There's a sad, wistfulness at the end of the book, when Thesiger realizes he will never be able to return to Iraq, now that the monarchy has been ousted and the revolution has succeeded.
i love reading thesinger, this one and 'arabian sands'. he was such an interesting person and had such fantastic approaches to the people he met and places he went. the photos in this one, like arabian sands, are amazing. what an incredible way of life the marsh arabs had in iraq, now of course gone for ever. i highly recommend this book if you are at all interested in explorers or learning about ways of life you never knew existed.
One of the greatest and most interesting books I have ever read. What I love about Thesiger is that he draws you into a whole new world, and introduces every character so well that you remember them throughout the novel. I wish his works were more well known and read. This man is a truly underrated author.
Don't see that anyone has tagged this classic. It's Thesiger's other classic for me.Wilfred Thesiger
i love me some wifred thesiger. the dude hated cars.
Having an open mind about how life existed and how cultural values and gender roles had a bigger impression of how a person should be and act as a part of a collective, rather than having individual ideas about how life should be lived, is therefore important when reading Thesiger’s work.The Marsh Arabs is a historic and cultural document more so than a travel journal.
One may have opinions regarding his right of performing the medical procedures without any medical training, however fact remains that these acts earned him respect and a reputation, and thus also the trust of the Madan, which in turn makes this book as a historic record very valuable.Apart from the reasons stated above, The Marsh Arabs proves to be a fast pacing and engaging read.
He probably enjoyed more than I did.The interesting thing about travel memoirs is that, invariably, they're seen through the eyes of the beholder (duh).
On the one hand, his admiration for the Marsh Arabs, their customs and rituals and their lifestyles becomes quickly apparent.
The Est'West lifestyle divide is constantly commented on, at times with surprising reflections (because guess what, turns out the Marsh Arabs were actually pretty supportive of trans people, something which some societies are still struggling with nowadays).
Probably those with an interest in history/social anthropology will enjoy this book more than your average reader.
An excellent read; the writing style is both descriptive and engaging, and the story itself fascinating.
The book includes over a hundred photographic plates which augment the story tremendously, especially for the amazing reed mudhifs which are frequently the setting.
(The photos and more can be found in the Pitt Rivers Museum collection).I have not yet read Arabian Sands but reviews of that earlier work complained about Thesiger's primitivism and romanticization of the Bedouin - I didn't see much of that in this book, only shades, and overall the telling is fairly forthright and balanced.
A matter of fact account, almost memoir, of the period the author lived in the Iraqi marshes.
Travelling widely within the marshes the author provides an anthropological record of life and customs within the tribes that occupy these areas.
Their habits, customs, feuds, animals, tragedies and joys as he experienced them are set down.
the flies, boredom, illness, hard labour are mentioned but not dwelled upon.
It is interesting that education is almost a beginning of the end of this lifestyle.It would also be interesting to read of a visit to the area now, after the marshes are beginning to be restored following Saddam's demise.
who would take it into their heads to go out into a primitive culture and just live there.
Thesiger had previously lived for five years among the Berbers; in this book he relates his long visits to the marshlands of the lower Tigris-Euphrates valley in Iraq.
The book is almost like a documentary camera taking us into the lives of these people (now largely vanished).
The details, though, are fascinating and the ninety or so photos (all B&W) are nearly as interesting as the book itself.
If you have an interest in the daily life and customs of people very different from yourself, I recommend this book.

Not a travellogue per se, more a collection of vignettes of his time with the Marsh Arabs. Totally fascinating to read about an extinguished culture, but I found the lack of an over-arching narrative meant I never got my teeth into it and I didn't care about the characters and blood fueds enough to engage with parts of it. Nonetheless excellent writing done with the greatest sympathy for the subject
Enjoyable memoire and travelogue, if for anything, the exoticism of a time and place long past. Thesiger is a clear and precise writer with a keen observer's eye for custom, language, and manners. The book is of course dated, however, learning about the mores of the Marsh Arabs and the bits of historicism make this a worthy read.
Thesiger's perspective is grating (endless allusions to how cool he is for going weird places, being of the people, & slamming local officials...which, hey, lord knows I'm here for that, but it gets old). Yet as a travelogue this somehow still excels, especially structurally (how did I pick up all of these local terms so quickly?!), and the subject matter is undeniably compelling. Finishing it felt like extracting myself from the bulrushes.
Brilliant. This is one of the best books I have ever read. The subject matter blows my mind. The description of the way these Marsh Arabs lives makes me want to go there but because of the war in Iraq I doubt it will be a safe place to go for a long time.
