https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/231821.The_Incredible_Journey
Nope, completely different book, but then she told the story of how she loaned her copy of "The Incredible Journey" to a "friend" at one of exercise classes who had been lamenting that she wanted to read it.
As soon as my buddy saw this book he instantly recognized the title/cover and said to his son, "You are going to love this!
It has a porcupine in it!" - last time he had read this one he was in seventh grade.This is a Canadian classic and I like to think that the Mary Lawson book I brought along is a new Canadian classic.
this is on my "gimmie sequel" list for riffle:Last year I decided to reread once book each month that I had loved when I was a little kid to see how they held up to the refined and sophisticated literary standards of my adulthood.
OR I still have the sensibilities of an eight-year-old.
Pass the marshmallow cereal.During this process, I discovered that several of my beloved books had sequels or in some cases multiple further adventures, and then seeing A Wrinkle in Time getting the big-screen treatment reminded me that I'd only ever read the original trilogy, the "other" two books in the Time Quintet having been published after a long pause while I was off looking at other things.
Yeah! For an animal story where they live. Sheila Burnford knew and loved a Bull Terrier at some point.I listened to the audio edition rather wish that they had skipped the musical accompaniment for the action scenes. It was little too loud for the narrator.
The feelings and emotions of these pet animals, their love towards each other and their loyalty and love for their owners are captured and expressed by the author with such a clarity that both young and old readers will find Incredible Journey a highly enjoyable read.Luath, a young and strong Labrador Retriever; Bodger, an old English Bull Terrier and Tao, a sleek and resolute Siamese cat are pets of ‘The Hunter Family’ and lives in northwestern Ontario in Canada.
I haven't seen the 1993 movie "Homeward Bound", but it doesn't sound like it would do justice to this wonderful story by Sheila Burnford. Published in 1961, this novel tells the story of an unusual trio of domestic pets that make an unlikely journey of 300 miles through the Canadian wilderness to return to their family's home. As you read the story of the trials and adventures of the three pets, you can't help but fall in love with Luath the Labrador, Bodger the Bull Terrier, and Tao the Siamese cat.
That movie was called Homeward Bound and had a cast of talking animals who set out on an incredible one hundred mile journey to return home.
What Burnford does is show just how amazing our two favorite pets, cats and dogs, are.The Hunter family, leaving on a nine-month trip to Europe, have left their beloved animals with their trusted friend, John Longridge.
These animals, not named until the very end of the tale, are an old bull terrier, a young Labrador, and a Siamese cat (Disney decided to go with more popular and attractive animals for Homeward Bound).
Age was against him, but he was bred to fight and endure.Tao, pampered but hard, the provider, the Siamese cat who was a superb hunter, Bodger’s bosom companion and protectorLuath, the cautious navigator, the young and gentle Labrador retriever, with a red-gold coat and a broad, noble head, rather suspicious of humans.The animals did exist, and their photos are included on the dust jacket.
I wonder if the author has in fact written a parable, a story that addresses the need for human co-operation and understanding, in the guise of an animal adventure.
What a fantastic book this is, I loved it when I was a little kid and it's still just as excellent today! Plus it takes place in Canada, so I was familiar with the frigid weather that the three animals face throughout the novel. It was incredibly well-written and intriguing.
Digital audio book read by Megan Follows Three beloved family pets – a young Labrador, an aged bull terrier, and a Siamese cat – head home across 300 miles of wooded and mostly uninhabited territory in Ontario, Canada.
The animals face considerable danger, fight bravely, work together to survive, are fortunate to find a few kind people to help them along, are sometimes separated, but continue with a sense of purpose.
Megan Follows does a fine job narrating the audiobook.
She has clear diction and imbues the work with the drama and tenderness appropriate to various scenes.
Oh *sniff* My *choke* Goodness!*sob*Please excuse me while I go find some Kleenex!*blows nose, wipes tears, regains composure*How can I not give this book anything other than my own 5-stars of LOVE!*blows nose again, swallows hard*I was a child of the 70's, so I knew of this story from clips of it I saw on The Wonderful World of Disney, which my sister and I watched every Sunday night.
I don't think I ever saw the whole, original, 1960's Disney movie based on this book (and I never saw the 1980's remake), but I remember highlights which were shown on the TV show, so I knew the basic story of the three animals and their incredible journey home.But I was not prepared for the emotion of this story!
Anyway, I am surprised to say that I actually liked the movie version better and that rarely happens for me.There were some things that were in the book that I was really happy to see.
This is a nice and surprising difference from the movie.
It's nice reading about deaf animals as they don't get much representation in media.
It would have been nice if they had included Native Americans in the movie as there were a few characters who played a role in the book.
Starting this book I knew the book would be different from the movie but I wasn't expecting to be bored at times during the book.
I only started to read this bc it was on my bookshelf, and never expected it would be so good. IT WAS SO GOOD PEOPLE!!! LEGIT YOU NEED TO READ THIS BOOK.
This book was so amazing. I love the writer and the characters were brilliant. 🐶🐶🐱 but it didn't reveal their names until like the last five chapters...🙊This is a story I could see myself writing. Except, my dogs and cat would have names, and would talk to each other. The last chapter was so wonderful I didn't quite know what to rate it... It was really four stars until then. So, five it is! 👏🏼⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
This book was so amazing. I love the writer and the characters were brilliant. 🐶🐶🐱 but it didn't reveal their names until like the last five chapters...🙊This is a story I could see myself writing. Except, my dogs and cat would have names, and would talk to each other. The last chapter was so wonderful I didn't quite know what to rate it... It was really four stars until then. So, five it is! 👏🏼⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️
One of my favorite books as a young adult. This is still one of the best animal stories every written to me. Any pet owner should read this book. Highly recommended
Even if she meant a yard door, the word was wrong.
All doors open onto your property or yard.
If she meant “backdoor”, she needed to say that.Sheila could be fanciful with grating, incongruous things, like calling a “shrill” whistle “sweet”.
Four stars appreciate everything else about this special novel.
Have no doubt that I savour hearing about pets coming home.
I was reluctant about this, in a bag of books borrowed from Mom. It cheered me up.My precious cat has been away three months.
Sheila's details about cats doing well in a forest, bolstered me.
Anyone who has a love of animals will like this tale of the love of 3 animals for each other and most especially for the humans they consider more than life itself.The animals names are interesting;Tao-the Siamese cat; path, route, road, chooseLuath- the Labrador retriever; quick, fast, early, soonBodger- the English bulldog; a creator of things from found or improvised materials.It seemed to me that Tao's canniness, Bodger's friendliness and Luath's faithfulness worked together for the group.
Amazing book!I had read this as a kid but remembered little about it. It is heartwarming to the core. I love the voice of the author and every bit of the story. I cried at the end. So so amazing.
I very much enjoyed this children's book about two dogs and a cat and their journey. They are staying at a friend's home while their owner is out of the country for a couple of months. And they decide that they want to go home -- which turns out to be several hundred miles away! And what an adventure it turns out to be!! Good story, exciting, dramatic in places, and sweet :)
I watched the movie first.
There were differences that confused me since I know the movie's version more than the book.
For example, the old dog is not as wise as the young dog as much as he is in the movie; the cat is a boy in the book; the young dog is wise and not hyper/ "annoying"; some events were different or added; but the big difference is that the animals didn't talk in this book.
This made me sad that the animals didn't talk but I have so much nostalgia for the movie I HAD to read the book.
(hide spoiler)]This is a children's novel, but an unusually dense and sedate one, with a contemplative tone and some fairly realistic animal behavior and convincing animal mindsets: neither the cat nor the dogs have any names in the straight narration since names are a human convention, the boxer takes inordinate glee in fighting with a threatening collie and nearly tearing it to pieces, the Labrador has trouble hunting due to generations of training to have a soft mouth, etc.
Their behavior towards each other is loving -especially between the elderly boxer and the Siamese, long-time companions--but it's all still grounded in realism, even if it's a nice realism.
I had vague memories of the movie - I think I'd only seen it once, long ago, so I can't really tell you how they compare.The animals don't talk in the book - I actually rather expected it to feel similar to 101 Dalmatians, but it was decidedly different.
The backstory is different, but I think their perils were similar.
This is a book I'll be hanging on to for when my kids get older.
This book was not originally targeted at children, though I believe that's where the appeal will lie, so it just gets 3 stars.
53 years after I saw the movie as a young child, I finally found the book.My fondest childhood memories revolve around my two best friends - our Labradors.
While their doggie antics (including "retrieving" our neighbour's prize bantams and corralling them ever so gently in our laundry, and "retrieving" everyone else's newspapers almost faster than the newsboy could deliver them) caused my parents so much distress, I only remember them with kind thoughts.I think any animal lover, young or old, could appreciate this beautifully worded novella.
It has no deep meaning, but still manages to tug those old heartstrings with a superb ending.
One of my fave books as a kid. I've read it many times.And again, one of my fave books. It's a spare little book that tells a great story. The descriptions are wonderful. You feel like you are in the wilderness with these animals. And the characters are wonderful as well. The author does a great job of bringing the dogs and cat to life without ever naming them (except at the end) or turning them into cartoons. I was watching my cat while I was reading, and she acts just like the cat in the book! Great, great read.
What an incredible story!
I first learned about this book years ago when I received the movie 'Homeward Bound' as a very young child, and later watched the original movie.
I am only now getting around to reading the book that started it all, but I knew long before that it would quickly become a favorite!
I wasn't wrong, it's just as good as I remember the movies being, and will be a story I look forward to sharing!
An ageless tale about a trio of pets, and the longing they have to return home, to their owners, and to the people they love.
I don't know what to tell you. Well written, good observation of animal behavior, glorification of hunting and violence in the guise of cute happy-ending nonsense. I hope I never encounter this kind of thing again.
Perfect for animal lovers of all ages. My children (8,5,4,2,babe) all listened to the audio. Enough adventure to keep them interested and we joyfully clapped at the end! Perfect for family read aloud.
Loved this book as a kid. Reading it with Carson who was very resistant. We are about 2/3 of the way done and I asked her if she liked it. She said it was sad. I said, "But do you like it." She said, "If you like things that are sad, then this is AWESOME!". Sigh...
One of the rare cases where I thought the movie did the story much better justice. This book was quite bleak with not enough happy or humorous parts to balance it.
My son and I read this book together for his English class. It's one of my childhood favorites, and I cried so hard at the end!
Listened to the audio version with my boys on a road trip. My son's smile and bright eyes when he realized the reunion was coming=5 stars. Classic and inspiring.
