https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/178991._I_never_saw_another_butterfly_
This is a heart-breaking and yet sweet book of children's poems, diary entries and artwork from Terezin, a Czech concentration during WWII.
Almost all these artists died at Terezin or were later shipped to Auschwitz where they perished.
I love the following poem, most likely written by a child who only lived a few more years at most:BirdsongHe doesn't know the world at allWho stays in his nest and doesn't go out.He doesn't know what birds know bestNor what I want to sing about,That the world is full of loveliness.When dewdrops sparkle in the grassAnd earth's aflood with morning light,A blackbird sings upon a bushTo greet the dawning after night.Then I know how fine it is to live.Hey, try to open up your heartTo beauty; go to the woods somedayAnd weave a wreath of memory there.Then if the tears obscure your wayYou'll know how wonderful it isTo be alive.
Children lived in a barracks/prison in the town, while the regular housing was used by Nazis.There were no amenities for the children, of course, but adults arranged secret schooling for them.
This book is a small collection of some of those art pieces.Terezin (German name: Theresienstadt) is known as the town that was dressed up, fancified for the visit from a commission from the International Red Cross.
I was especially touched after having seen the adult fortress and the current (now peaceful and pretty) town of Terezin.
A tough book to get through.Poetry and pictures by little children before they were purposely withdrawn from this earth.How unneccessarily tragic are many of our actions and words.
Recently reading about the Houston Holocaust Museum's planned 2013 exhibition titled The Butterfly Project, I read for the first time Pavel Friedmann's poem The Butterfly" in which he remarks that he has seen no butterfly in the ghetto though some of the beauty of the natural world insists on itself even there.
Terezin was a bizarre experiment of the Third Reich, which set it up as a place to hold Jewish artists, intellectuals, and German army veterans of World War I.
To these Jews and to the world it presented this depraved and dirty ghetto as a gift to these Jews who had greatly to German culture.
The book is really several books in one: a) introductory material and an epilogue; b) a collection of poems written by children in Theresienstadt; c) an interspersed collection of children's drawings from art classes (taught by, among others, a gifted artist who later perished in another camp); d) a section with annotations about each poem; and e) a section with annotations about the individual drawings.
You can read the poems and examine the drawings without first reading the backgrounds, or you can read the background of each poem or drawing as you experience the art.
Otto Frank recalled that during his arrest, one of the Green Police found his foot locker from his days in the German Army.
The Green Policeman asked him why he didn't just turn himself in, and he would have been sent to Terezin.
"As if," Otto fumed "Terezin was a country club".If the Franks HAD been sent to Terezin, the group of children in this book would have included at least Anne Frank, and possibly her sister Margot.Other people who were sent to Terezin were the true inventor of aspirin, and many other prominent European Jews.
Terezin was a 'show ghetto', which was why the children (sometimes) had paper, schoolbooks, etc.
the PC thing would probably be for me to give this 5 stars. The context is tragic and moving-- poems and pictures done by kids in a WWII "model ghetto" (where people died in their own excrement and hundreds were shipped out to concentration camps daily). With a couple of exceptions, the poems themselves weren't as moving for me as I had expected they might be...
My friend Ida gave this book to me and it just haunted me - another lie foisted upon the world by the Nazi inner circle. An unforgettable book. I have used this with students and it is so readable.
5.0 This reflects the absolute worst of humanity. There are no messages of hope, no silver linings, there is only deep heartache and unimaginable despair. It serves as a constant reminder that evil and the seeds of intolerance must be vigilantly opposed whenever possible. This book documents through art and poems the pain and suffering that created a situation where only 100 out 15,000 children survive. This book was so hard for me to read and yet it is something everyone needs to be aware of.
This book was depressing knowing that most of the kids who wrote these died in the camps... :(
How am I supposed to rate this book? It's so pretty but tragic, childish but oh so sad; this is possibly the saddest book I have ever owned. Each page brings tears to my eyes, and I can't bear to open it often, despite the wonderful quality of its paper, the colourful images, the amazing words...
It is a shocking and the same time a very touching book that keeps these children alive.
It collects the drawings and poems of children who passed through the Terezin Concentration Camp between 1942 and 1944.
“A total of around 15,000 children under the age of 15 passed through Terezin.
The book does a good job of explaining the history of this ghetto/concentration camp, which is extremely helpful since I had never heard of it before reading.
I originally read a poem from this collection for a class in college.
It is an emotional collection, as it is difficult to imagine the forced maturation and systematic annihilation of these children.
Από τα πιο μαύρα βιβλία που έχω διαβάσει.Το βιβλίο περιλαμβάνει ποιήματα και ζωγραφιές παιδιών που ήταν κρατούμενα στο στρατόπεδο συγκέντρωσης του Τερεζίν (Theresienstadt ghetto).
Οι ναζί ενθάρρυναν τις καλλιτεχνικές δραστηριότητες των κρατούμενων για να δείξουν σε επιθεωρήσεις του Ερυθρού Σταυρού ότι δεν πάει τίποτα στραβά.
Μάλιστα είχαν στήσει το στρατόπεδο με τέτοιο τρόπο ώστε να μοιάζει με χωριό.
Λίγα μέτρα πιο πέρα , βρίσκονταν οι κάμαρες του θανάτου, φυσικά.
"Another day has gone for keepsInto the bottomless pit of time.Again it has wounded a man, held captive\ by his brethren.After dusk, he longs for bandages,For soft hands to shield the eyesFrom all the horrors that stare by day.But in the ghetto, darkness, too, is kindTo weary eyes that all day long have had to watch[...]"
Heartbreaking and haunting. "...I never saw another butterfly..." is a collection of artwork and poetry from the children of the Terezin Concentration Camp. As was stated in the forward, "Culture was a collective means of resisting the deceptions practiced by the Nazis as well as a weapon against despair, a way of warding off the fearful pink slip--the deportation order to the darkness in the East." This is a collection that you should really take your time with to truly absorb the images and words on its pages.
Heartbreaking. A total of 15,000 children under the age of fifteen passed through the Terezin Concentration Camp between the years 1942-1944; less than 100 survived. This book is illustrated with pictures the children drew in camp, along with their poems. This will resonate with you forever.
If more people read books like this one maybe there would be less hate and fear in the world. It is quite shocking to see all that remains of all those children.
This book is filled with poems of the kids who were at Terezin during WWll either held at a ghetto or a concentration camp.
Out of all of the books that I have read, with a book filled with just poems, that each poem gives off the same mood, this book is unique in so many different ways.
It was almost like it was giving a small introduction of the everyday life of everyone at the camp and why it was so rough living there until the day they die in there, “When a new child comes everything seems so strange to him.
Then you discover that the art was created by children who were led by a teacher and that these expressions were subversive acts.
From the first note in the book, "Through their artistic expressions, the voices of these children, each one unique and individual, reach us across the abyss of the greatest crime in human history, allow us to touch them, and restore our own humanity in doing so." The art was kept in two briefcases on a shelf in the Prague Jewish community for ten years after the liberation of the camp by the Soviet Army in 1945.
I first heard about this book when I was judging a speech meet and one of the students did a Serious Oral Interpretation with the poem "I Never Saw Another Butterfly" as a lead-in.At the time the book did not seem to be available in the United States - at least I couldn't find a copy.
It has since become available in the States.The horror being incomprehensible, the drawings and poems allow the voices of the children of Terezin to be heard.
It felt too curated - you can see the invisible hand of the editor picking out the poems and drawings from a box of hundreds, finding those that seemed to fit their narrative.
The children were instructed what to draw in a series of exercises, and I don't particularly think that these necessarily speak to their lived experience.
What was her experience, as a counsellor, of drawing these children out of their situations to express themselves in pen and ink?
How did the children respond to her wanting them to draw butterflies, of all things?
Genre: PoetryAwards:Grade Level:5-6Comments: I would use this book to discuss the history of the Holocaust.
The poems would be used to provide discussion ideas, and the students can ask questions based on the poems.
I could also use this as a writing tool, the students who have trouble with poetry can see all these kids that went through the struggle, can still write a beautiful poem.
For an activity, I would have the students act as if they were in Holocaust and what they would write as a poem after reading this book.
I was in the play based off this book when I was in high school and it was one of the most amazing/learning experiences of my life, both as a person and as an actor.
I played the lead role, Raja, which is funny because I didn't even audition for the role.
We had been rehearsing for almost 2 months and I had to learn the whole play in 5 days.
I never got the chance to pick this book up, but if the play is any indication, I bet it's just as powerful.
I liked this book however it simply wasn't one of my favorite because of the format. I'm not a big fan of poetry style books so that plays a big factor in it. It is hard sometimes to understand books that are formatted in that way. There wasn't a story line of the book either, it was just a combination of different poem written by the kids during the holocaust. Thus it was a very sad book and I like books with happy endings so it wasn't one of my top favorites I read this semester.
Poems and picture by children in a ghetto in Terezin. They missed their homes, felt dirty and didn't have enough to eat. Even thought they saw death every day,they still had hope. In 1944 they were sent to Auschwitz where most of them died. A few of the Children worked in the camps and were freed at the end of the war. The children had an art teacher at the ghetto that shared her talents and all her art supplies with them. She also died in Auschwitz.
My college choir director introduced us to a song series that was based on three of the poems in this book. You will be both inspired and moved to the brink of tears after reading the stories of these children. Fantastic!!!
Heartbreaking, desolate and beautiful, the words of children sent to Terezin Ghetto (work camp) during WWII. Dreaming and hopeful are the drawings and collages. Of the 15,000 children sent to Terezin, all but 100 died there or at another concentration camp such as Auschwitz-Birkenau.
So sad ... reading the poems and looking at the drawings and paintings ... to think that so much talent was never given the chance to reach their full potential.We must never forget .........
These children were born to have the same advantages and opportunities as any other child.
These children were born to run, play, dream, learn, feel, draw and write.
We got accustomed to seeing people die in their own excrement..." No child should ever have to grow accustomed to this!If reading the poetry and seeing the artwork of these children does nothing for you, then I encourage you to read what little we know about them, provided in the back of the book.
About 15,000 children under the age of 15 passed through Terezin.
My five star rating is for those children of Terezin!
15,000 children under the age of fifteen were sent to the Terezin ghetto during the Holocaust - only 100 survived.
Life in Terezin was much more gruesome than it appeared to outside visitors; there were regular transports to death camps and it was never the intention of the Nazis to allow any of the residents to survive.
The children had some limited access to art supplies and were taught by a famous artist (Friedl Dicker-Brandeis, who died in Birkenau).
It is clear that children who wrote these poems were forced to be wise beyond their years.
