https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/225546.Living_Loving_Learning

Διαβάστε μόνο αν είστε τύποι που πιστεύουν ότι μπορούμε και πρέπει να κυλιόμαστε αγκαλιασμένοι στα λιβάδια.
3,5 *
I generally hate self-help/inspirational type books, however this book holds a soft spot in my heart.Living Loving and Learning is a collection of Leo Buscaglia's lectures and is replete with anecdotal interactions from students, readers, and friends.
Buscaglia's message is inspired from everyday events that we often fail to notice.
Buscaglia teaches that it is one thing to have achievements and successes in life, yet it is another thing to live the way humans were meant to live – through the senses, through relationships, and through perpetual self-improvement.
Δεδομένης της διαφήμισης και των κριτικών που έχω δει ήταν πολύ κατώτερο των προσδοκιών μου.Κατά τη γνώμη μου δεν τόσο ωραίο όσο το παρουσιάζουν.Επαναλαμβάνεται συνεχώς,είναι κάπως κουραστικό και βαρετό βιβλίο.Σε κάποιους μπορεί να φανεί ουτοπικό,σε κάποιους θα αρέσει πάρα πολύ.Δεν με βοήθησε και τόσο στην ψυχολογία μου,ούτε ένιωσα ευτυχισμένη μόλις το τελείωσα.Ε,όχι δα!Μου θύμισε τις ανοησίες που διάβασα στον Αλχημιστή του Κοέλιο.
Incluso si eres perezoso para leer.
[...] Desde la pregunta: ¿Cuál es la experiencia de ser un ser humano?, el author devuelve muchos consejos y puntos de vista de los cuales todos debemos aprender.
Anque si somos personas que piensan que es el nuestro planeta Tierra que necesita cambiar (esto para los más pesimistas).
Y como lleva el título de su libro mismo: ser un ser humano se trata de vivir, amar y aprender.El texto está disponible bajo la Licencia Creative Commons Atribución Compartir Igual 3.0; pueden aplicarse cláusulas adicionales.
I have carried his suggestions and ideas inside my heart for all these years and I am still hoping and waiting for people to take his advice to heart.
Now that I am in my 50's, I look around today and I think that people are finally doing this.
So when they were getting through the tough times they would have some Joy to talk about and remember and feel better.
It is difficult to hold more than one memory and feeling in your mind at one time.
So creating Joyful times is important.
This book was originally required reading for me.
It became the best $0.01 I ever spent on Amazon.
The lessons taught in Dr. Buscaglia's book cover a myriad of topics from communication to trust to feelings to hugs.
Along the way he provides wonderful insight and advice to those who wish to understand themselves and everyone else who considers themself human.
At the very least it is a guide to some understanding, cooperation and even  a little tolerance among all of us.
It is definitely worth the read, and the 1 cent it costs to buy the paperback.
To be honest I wasn't expecting to like this book very much.
Leo Buscaglia clearly believed the message he was sharing and he was very passionate about it.Because this book is a collection of lectures and speeches, it can get very repetitive after a while.
If you only read one or two of the lectures you would basically get the same message you get by reading the whole book.
He phrases things differently and uses different examples, but the message is essentially the same in all of them.
While there wasn't really anything new in this book, it is certainly a message that bears repeating.
Una valutazione ipotetica di quattro stelle per la sobrietà del volume.
Regola valevole anche se nel leggere il soggetto è una persona pigra.Dalla domanda: qual è l'esperienza di essere un essere umano?, l'autore devolve ai suoi lettori molti consigli e punti di vista dei quali tutti dovremmo imparare.
[…] Con altre parole, in modo dolce, Leo F.
Buscaglia con questo volume avrà creduto d'insegnare ai lettori che bisogna accettare tutti quei cambiamenti esistenziali della persona.
E da una sintesi di tre parole per poi ricongiungersi a quanto menziona il titolo del libro stesso: essere un essere umano significa vivere, amare e capirsi.
I read Buscaglia back to back with Peck's The Road Less Traveled and it was like night and day.
Their approaches to life are opposites.
He's a big Italian teddy bear who wants everyone to get along and to find out what makes them happy, and to enjoy life.
Now of course, I read these books about 20 years ago so my memory might be embellishing - I do recall however, putting Peck down and thinking, "What a horrble way to live," and then wishing Leo Buscaglia was my brother and I could go hang out with him, drink some wine, eat some lasagna and have some laughs.
Do a random act of kindness....When you receive a book from the library which you particularly resonated with...
leave little notes of love in the book for the next person to find.I opened up this book to begin to read and the page 111 (how very ascension) was circled in pencil the Index, for the chapter of 'Bridging the Barriers.' I immediately turned to page 111, since it was circled...and out fell a little note which said "i love you"I was so filled with joy and warmth that I just laid down and basked in the feeling for quite some time.
I will keep that note always and put in my own note for the next person...on my favorite page.
Buscaglia is awesome. I try to imagine what it must have been like to have been one of his college students. I love how he embraces life and encourages us to embrace others, if not physically then by doing small acts of kindness.
Is there anything else a man can ask for? Leo Buscaglia has the tremendous ability to bring out our finest self with this book! This book contains advice and points of view we should all be familiar with if you also belong to those people that think that this world needs a change :)
İlk okuduğum kişisel gelişim kitabıydı.Biraz abartılı da olsa çok güzeldi.
This is the first book of his I read in freshman year at Warren Wilson College - read it in a week.I buy his books as gifts - they are the best - his Christmas stories collection is my favorite and my favorite short story is No Room in the Inn - awe.Love (his first book) is a great book to help you forgive as well as Loving Each Other: The Challenge of Human Relationship.
I also love his book The Fall of Freddie the Leaf to help children deal with death of beloved family members - I bring it out for myself from time to time.Here are website links to learn more about this amazing man:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leo_Busc...http://www.buscaglia.com/God bless you, Leo!!!
Αν και ήμουν επιφυλακτική όταν το ξεκίνησα με συνέπηρε ο τρόπος σκέψης/γράφης.
Ειλικρινά θα ήθελα να είχα παρακολουθήσει κάποια διάλεξή του.Όλα τα κεφάλαια του βιβλίου είναι σε μορφή διαλέξεων, κάποια αναντίρρητα έχουν περισσότερο ενδιαφέρον αλλά όλα περιέχουν ηθικά διδαγμάτα.
Μ 'αρεσε που επαναλαμβάνεται σε κάποια σημεία γιατί με αυτό τον τρόπο αφομοιώνεις καλύτερα τα γραφόμενά του.
Ο Χόρχε παραμένει ο αγαπημένος μου αλλά αναγνωρίζω στον Λεο τα τεράστια αποθέματα αγάπης που είχε και τα μετεδιδε χωρίς να περιμένει αντάλλαγμα.Κάθε μέρα πριν ξεκινήσω τη μέρα μου διαβάζω το εξής χωρίο''Γίνε λοιπόν ο πιο τρυφερός, συναρπαστικός άνθρωπος του κόσμου''.
He talks about his family & describes what it was like to grow up in such an environment.
He describes their influences on him & what seemed to be the way a family should be like.
The book has its good & bad meaning you'll laugh at one thing on the page & in the next paragraph you'll be deeply touched by something else.
It was a real eye-opener reading this & had I not gone to a book swap I would have never discovered it.
&here were several little things that really hit home while reading this & would recommend to anyone.
What is the experience of being a human being?
In order to make sense of all the chaos that is life, Leo Buscaglia deliciously teaches us to embrace all that changes.
Like the title of his book, being a human being is all about living, loving and learning.
So if we find we have a lot of love in our hearts, we can love our way through all the chaotic changes and also become fully aware of ALL that is human which is to ultimately realize the "Yes" of life and the "No" of death are a union of love, hope and faith in which all eternity is born.
Reading it now, I realized that many of the things Buscaglia talks about I already know, and already practice in my life.
Though I found myself not always agreeing with him, his words do give you hope and make you want to try and see life the way he does.
Moreso, I personally liked this repetiveness, because the more I read about an idea, the more it stays with me, whereas if I had come across it just once, it's possible that I would have forgotten it after a while.Five stars for this amazing book!
Αυτό το βιβλίο σε βοηθάει όσο του επιτρέψεις εσύ. Σου προσφέρει βοήθεια όταν είσαι έτοιμος εσύ να δεχτείς την ζωή, την χαρά και την επιθυμία να βοηθήσεις τους άλλους και να σκορπίσεις αγάπη. Δεν έχω εμπειρία με βιβλία του είδους της αυτοβελτίωσης, αλλά η αγνότητα και η ειλικρίνεια αυτού του ανθρώπου μου έδωσε δύναμη και με έπεισε. Προσωπικά ήταν ό,τι χρειαζόμουν για να διώξω κάθε ενδοιασμό που είχα και να βάλω τις σκέψεις μου σε μία σειρά. Μπουσκάλια, σ' ευχαριστώ!  Συνανάγνωση με την Μαγδαλένα
Ho scoperto questo libro e questo autore per caso, guardando ahimé Uomini e Donne... incuriosita ho cercato la trama e mi è piaciuta. così l'ho letto ed è molto bello. Bisogna fare tesoro dei suoi consigli perchè mettendoli in pratica la nostra vita migliorerebbe!Bello, consigliato :)
Read and reread as a teenager. Helped me to be accepting and loving, I really liked his philosophy on life.
4.25 stars.
Υπέροχο βιβλίο! Βαρετό και κακογραμμένο αλλά με πολύ ενδιαφέρουσες ιδέες. Το προτείνω!

I do not know that I would recommend this book to most readers, but the author is "not far from the Kingdom of God".Buscaglia became known as "The Love Guy"; he taught a college course entitled "Love" which was always packed to capacity.
At some level this is a Christian book--absent only the aspect of reliance on Christ, it otherwise teaches that the life of love and forgiveness is the best way to live, that we love others not so that they will love us but simply to love them.
Here are some of my favorite parts:"Perhaps love is the process of my leading you gently back to yourself."- Wind, Sand & Stars by Saint Exupery- [ ] The most important thing in the world is that you make yourself the greatest, grandest, most wonderful, loving person in the world because this is what you are going to be giving to your children -- to all those you meet.- [ ] An investment in life is an investment in change, and I can't be concerned with dying because I'm too damned busy living!
This is a fantastic book about love by educator and people-lover, Leo Buscaglia.
It was required reading for one of my Elementary Education classes when I was in college and I enjoyed it very much.
As I am working with children this school year, I thought it was worth a reread.
Although Buscaglia is known for his work in education, I find his writing to apply well in personal and professional relationships.
I love the simple advice and encouragement to love people as they are, be quick to forgive, share a hug or a smile and let go of negativity.
A great read.
A copy of this book was passed to me by chance - and I was supposed to pass it to another person after I read it.
I ended up reading it maybe a dozen of times - so much do that I memorized many parts.
And then I eventually gave it to the person who needed itore than I did at the time.
I now have a copy of my own that I read on a regular basis - and I still continue learning from Leo. My favorite teacher who prepared me for dealing with my children's disabilities.
