https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/259546.The_Heart_of_a_Dog
I came across this book while going through a neighbor's books that they were giving away. I gave it a go and it was okay. It's all about different collies, most of which live on "The Place". I enjoyed it--in parts it was similar to The Call of the Wild by Jack London. If you really like dogs/dog shows and specifically collies then you'll probably like it. The human characters are pretty black-and-white, 2-d though.
Anything by Albert Payson Terhune is a clear winner in my book. Lovely stories about dogs and the people who loved them.
The first thing to remember when reading this is that these short stories were not necessarily written anywhere near the same time as each other, not originally being published in book form.
I will say I enjoyed seeing another adventure of Link's after the final events of His Dog, and Link is one of the slightly more developed of Terhune's human characters, but it seems an odd choice for this collection.Both Youth Will Be Served and Lochinvar Bobby are somewhat focused upon the showing of dogs, which has far more to do with a man's ego than with the canine heart, particularly in the case of the former story.
These and others of Terhune's collie stories include descriptions of dogs suffering abuse or severe discipline, being killed, fighting to the death, slaughtering other animals, and struggling to survive in the wilderness.
This book contains several short stories by Albert Payson Terhune.
The canine characters in these stories are brave, loving, courageous, intelligent, and faithful dogs, both feral and domestic.
These tales will thrill any dog lover and convert the indifferent with the endearing and adventurous dog stories.
I couldn't put it down and binge read one story after the other.
Before I read this collection, our family had only outdoor dogs.
She guards our home and watches over us as we sleep, protecting us from intruders and even the shadows cast on the wall and ceiling by the late night reader with a book light!
So readers beware...
Collie’s devotion to its owner through courage and devotion.
Terhune, Albert Payson
I had a hard time reading the book in some parts of the story because of the way the author had wrote it but it's probably just me!
This is the rating I would have given it as a kid. I have a feeling that today I'd find it saccharine, and unrealistic.
