https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43945.Portnoy_s_Complaint
I’ve read three or four Philip Roth books, but how have I never read this, which catapulted him to literary fame – or at least notoriety and celebrity – in the late 60s?
The young Roth sure was funny.
It’s not really Roth saying these wild things but a fictional character – namely, Alexander Portnoy, a 30-something Jewish civil liberties attorney who’s got one big fat mother complex.
As Katie Roiphe points out in an excellent essay from In Praise of Messy Lives: Essays, today’s literary male novelists (Dave Eggers, Jonathan Franzen, Michael Chabon) sure don’t write about sex the way Roth, Updike and Mailer did when they were their age.15.
I want to read more Philip Roth.
It (the book) goes something like this:sexsexsexsexguiltguiltguiltguiltsexsexsexguiltguiltmoms faultguiltmoms faultmoms faultguilt sexsexguiltkinda dads fault toomostly moms faultguiltsexsexsexself loathingJewish loathingprotestant loathingprotestant awemore jewish loathingagain with the Protestant loathingsexsexguilt guiltguiltguiltpartial reconciliation with perceptions of all things Jewishattempt at sexfailure at sexguiltguiltguiltmom's faultNow that I've, no doubt drawn you into the plot line and compelled you to pick up the book for yourself, let me share with you some of my personal thoughts on the book.Growing up conservative/fundamentalist(?) Christian, I am no stranger to guilt.
As a matter of fact some times I feel that Catholics and Jewish people think they have the market cornered on guilt, well, you know what?
In addition he develops a very pessimistic vision of marriage, a tragicomic vision!Alexander touches us, captivates us with his vision of things, he does not deny his belonging or hates his parents, but he opposes certain uses or beliefs.Roth was able to present to us the soul of an American Jew without clichés, with an excellent mastery of the character of his character, and with a humor (I would not say to the Woody Allen) full of irony (original).
Portnoy's Complaint was my first husband's favorite book, and he used to quote from it all the time. When we got divorced (it wasn't amicable), my lawyer asked how I'd feel about using that fact in court. I was strongly tempted but told him after careful consideration that it was below the belt.As it turned out, my instincts were sound. The judge knew Philip Roth personally, and it would have been a disaster. I only discovered this several years later and was amazed at what a close call I'd had.
With that in mind Philip Roth is official King of writing about what you know and his throne is probably made from giant piles of books in which he has written about being himself or a variant thereof.
Given the subject matter I think that it would be better dubbed a "manologue" rather than a monologue.The highlight of the book for many (and this forms a lynch pin of many non Goodreads reviews and critiques) is Alexander Portnoy's sexual adventures with a piece of raw liver.
Portnoy'un Feryadı, dönemsel olarak bakıldığında neden çok fazla rahatsız edici olabileceği çok net bir şekilde anlaşabiliyor.
Ve çizdiği yan karakterler, yorucuydu.Kitabı okurken, özellikle baş bölümlerde Woody Allen'in filmi izliyormuş gibi keyifle okudum ve sonrasında artık bayacak bir durumda neredeyse American Pie izliyormuş hissi verdi.
Sonuç:Genel anlamda, Portnoy'un Feryadı, benim hiç sevmediğim çok fazla Amerikan ve cıvık cıvık bir anlatıma sahip.
Her ne kadar Portnoy dönemsel olarak önemli bir kitap olsa da, Roth'un yüklemeler yaptığı tüm alt metinlere rağmen, Roth'un laubali anlatımı yorucu ve sıkıcı bir hale gelmeye başladı.Ve sonuç olarak da, Roth'u ve kitabı hiç sevmedim.
Amerikan edebiyatına meraklıysanız, okunması gereken bir kitap.
This is the book that made Philip Roth both famous and scandalous. Portnoy is a mother-obsessed sexual maniac and actually quite hilarious. Who else would have had his character masturbating with a cow liver other than the author of the equally darkly humorous Sabbath's Theater? This book and the reaction to it drives the Nathan Zuckerman series of books which all refer back to the public reaction with equal measures of awe and dismay. The book itself is a classic and extremely well-written as only Roth can write.RIP (1933-2018). One of America's literary giants has left us.
Biz kitap boyunca psikanalisti görmeyiz ve monolog sorularla bölünmez bu ise karakterin dolup taşmışlığını vurgulamak için işlevsel oluyor eserde.Portnoy’un Amerika’sı çekirdek ailenin banliyöyede icat olduğu, ilerlemenin, gelişmenin ve toplumsal ödevlerin bireyi belirlediği bir dünyayı ve bir de buna Yahudi inancının şekillendirdiği bir yığın kural ve kaide eklenince karşımıza idi ve süperegosu, istekler ve kurallar çatışması ile bölünmüş öznenin bunalımlarını çıkarıyor.
Bireyin arzusu ile barışması, olduğu her neyse ona sahip çıkması üst anlatıyı boşa düşürmekle mümkündür( bu kitabın yasaklanması için bir neden daha) ancak bu atarlanmakla olacak iş değil maalesef ki Portnoy bu kimliğe ve baskılanmasına tekrar tekrar dönecektir.Kitap boyunca dikkat çeken bir hususda öteki olmak.
The sex-obsessed Alexander Portnoy is in this tale confessing to his analyst; he is trying to figure out how to be Jewish (or not) in America, exploring these issues through the various women--Jews, gentiles--he is with.
He struggles: How can such a good boy like me be so bad?!The book tacks back and forth between Alex the masturbator at 14 and Alex the sadly, madly lost sexual libertine at 33, a case of arrested development, one of many many Roth books that would seem to take a look at sex and mortality and cultural identity.
As an already somewhat lapsed Jew at the time, though, I found the novel hilarious, shocking and frighteningly accurate, if a bit exaggerated.At more than double the age I was then, I decided to revisit "Portnoy's Complaint" for the first time, partly because I want to see if it's held up for me after all these years, and partly to see how it compares to the handful of other Roth novels I've read in recent years, including "The Anatomy Lesson" and "The Plot Against America." So what did I find?
Yorumumu daha sonra gireceğim.
A bit of a twisted road to get to Philip Roth's infamous, sexually explicit work that caused a big splash when published in 1969.While cleverly written and quite funny in some parts, the rant-like nature of this book got a little tired after a while, and soon it was apparent that the story arc wasn't going anywhere interesting for me.Portnoy complains mainly about his overbearing Jewish parents (particularly his mother - can you say Oedipus Complex?), his Jewishness, his attraction to shikses, and his inability to pick a nice girl and have a normal relationship.
Yup. And, I'm still willing and interested in reading more.
Questo romanzo è un vero e proprio trattato esaustivo su questo sentimento pernicioso, persistente, onnipresente nella vita di molti...Mi è rimasto un dubbio: o anche i miei genitori sono ebrei e me l’hanno sempre abilmente tenuto nascosto, o la cultura del senso di colpa non è solo prerogativa di questa religione...“Quando Heshie restò ucciso in guerra, l’unica cosa che alla gente venne in mente di dire a mia zia Clara e a mio zio Hymie, per lenirne l’orrore e consolarne il dolore fu: - Se non altro non vi ha lasciati con una moglie shikse.
You think just because you wrote a bunch of anti-semitic, auto-erotic stuff you’re some bigshot?
Sure, I get the whole defy the boundaries of society thing, to be rid of the cultural standards and stuff.
You’re thinking of doing perverse stuff to your own Mother!
But I’m telling you, you didn’t succeed with that whole incest thing.
Because I’m telling ya, some things here were a little too graphic to be made up.
Is it really just I’m too good for you stuff?
You may be a chronic-wanker, but you’re not stupid enough to write a book about this stuff.
Am I right, Phil?
Although I definitely enjoyed it more than Bukowski's Women, I've come to realise that books about middle-aged male Americans who spend their time navel-gazing and contemplating their relationship with their penis is probably not my cup of tea. The book was fun, but I strongly suspect that if it weren't for the narrator, I might have never finished it. Ron Silver is a brilliant reader, I doubt that I would have enjoyed the story more even if Roth himself was whispering it in my ear.
Tra farsa e tragedia edipica, Portnoy si rivela a seconda dei momenti infante sperduto con la nostalgia della madre che lo minaccia di evirazione con il coltello di cucina, giovane maschio che vede l'erezione come stato di divina prigionia e diviene soggetto di necessaria educazione all'onanismo sfrenato, uomo adulto virile e dominante che innalza contro la repressione puritana l'idolo del proibito, scelta negativa che conduce a una morale pansessuale e edonistica.
Nella sua cronica insoddisfazione, nei suoi insuccessi iterati, Portnoy pensa se stesso come un mentecatto con una sofferenza significante e dignitosa, un ebreo infelice che disprezza se stesso, dove l'esagerazione viene eletta a stile esistenziale.
Elbette bir şeyler yazarım gibi.. Birkaç bileni ve daha iyi okuduğuna inandıklarımı dinleyip bu yarım bırakılmış satırlara devam edeceğim. Sanırım..
Somewhere anyone is going to feel like that they don't belong.
What I really liked about Portnoy's Complaint is the not fitting in the anyone should feel that way.
You don't have to feel like you owe your family.
I wish she didn't have to feel shame!
I was just bored when it became about BEING Jewish instead of being any man.
Besides, it doesn't feel like the truth!
Sighs That would be soemthing that would mean something to me (wishing) instead of a funny story about a guy who can talk circles around what he really wants.
If the rest of the book is as good as the first 50 pages then we shall be quite pleased.(Yes. I'm reading the old yellow paperback edition.
$1 from Half Price.)Getting close to a third of the way in...What is it Dali said: "Stop stealing my dreams?" I say to Roth: "You've stolen my life, the angst in my head." I'm sort of in a mindmeld with this book.
Reading transfixed.I'm officially in awe of Roth, and the achievement of this book.
I just dig the shit out of this book.
This is now, officially, my favorite book.
normal olmakla olmamak arasında kafamızda bir yerde çok ince bir çizgi var sanırım. çocukluk travmaları genetik gibi şok gibi farklı durumlarla karşılaşınca o ince çizgi bir anda yok olabiliyor galiba.o ince çizginin kalktığı hikayeler ilgimi hep çekmiştir. insana dair hazine değerindeki detayların birazda orada bir yerlerde saklandığını düşünürüm hep.bir de hiç yaşayamayacağım bir tecrübe olarak karşı cinsin deneyimlerini okumak güzel bir tecrübeydi.Philip Roth un daha önce Hayalet Yazar ıno okumuştum ve oldukça beğenmiştim. Portnoy da ise sanki bambaşka bir Roth vardı ama edebi becerisinden bişii kaybetmemişti. belki çeviri ile ilgili sıkıntılar olsa da gerisindeki yazarı görmek çok da zor değildi.
The definitive self-hating Jew novel.
A searing literary stand-up performance par excellence.
Woody Allen meets Bill Hicks.
Explains where the famous inbuilt neurosis in New York Jews comes from.
A brutal, universal portrayal of family life.
Every young man in his twenties tries at some point to write this novel and fails.
Not a work of remarkable human insight and depth, but this is Philip Roth: the psychopathology of sleaze, if you please.
(And, in case you’d forgotten the author’s surname, Vintage have clearly printed it on the cover in large letters.
ROTH.
Thanks Vintage!)
I thought to read the end as a commenter noted it was a shaggy dog story, which made me wonder what the punch-line was, but as I read about this woman he called "the monkey," I became so furious in how he wrote of her with such hatred that I had to know more about their relationship, which took me back another section, and then another, till I'd finally been led to read the entire dang book.
96), for which I give Roth kudos by enabling me to laugh about a suicide of all tragedies, and for the passage in which the Monkey accuses Portnoy of making her a lesbian by their fulfilling their mutual fantasy of sleeping with another woman.
Per di più a New York, bella colta e cosmopolita, compendium mundi.Ed hai il coraggio di lamentarti ?Vieni al mondo negli anni '30, sperimenti solo vittorie, ascesa nel benessere in una società che è assolutamente sicura della crescita infinita e non ha ancora patito disillusioni.Appurato che non fai parte di quei 5 o 6 miliardi di esseri umani che se la passano peggio di te, effettivamente l'aver avuto tutte queste fortune qualche inconveniente lo procura ed il rapporto genitori/figli tanto più è stretto e tanto può avere esiti soffocanti, ricattatori, castranti.E' successo a qualcun altro di subire la famosa scenata rincasando tardissimo, senza preventivo preavviso e colpevolmente incolumi ?:  “non ho chiuso occhio tutta la notte per l'ansia, per l'angoscia....un incidente.....una rissa .
Thirty years after Roth wrote Portnoy's Complaint he won the Pulitzer Prize for American Pastoral.
Portnoy's Complaint has, within its almost 300 pages, more vulgarity and profanity than any other book I've ever read.
If I see my son reading this before the age of 30, I will physically remove it from his hands.
And, I assure you, no mother is giving this book to her son (at any age!!).
Nonetheless, if you like good writing and have a great sense of humor, you might really enjoy this read.
Dalle figure genitoriali, alla rivalsa sessuale (la mappa mentale degli USA da colonizzare stato per stato non è troppo dissimile da quella dell'Europa che avevo in mente nei primi del 2000), passando per il disagio delle proprie origini che si converte in motivo di superiorità in un ambiente esterno (studiatevi la categoria dei terroni fuggiaschi per capire cosa intendo), il malcelato amore per la propria cucina, l'affermazione non economica ma sociale in un ruolo "giusto" e tanto tanto altro.
The book was Marieke Hardy pick of a classic and it received such high praise by the whole panel, describing it as funny, awkward, rude and a work of a genius.Portnoy’s Complaint is a one sided conversation between Alex Portnoy and his psychoanalyst, of growing up in a Jewish household with loud, workaholic and overprotective parents, his sexual awakening, his career and his failure to commit to a lasting relationship.I do agree with the panel, it was hilarious in some parts.
I laughed so hard hearing Alex reminisce of the time when he was a teen living at home.
Pentru că, dacă e să-l credem pe autor, e naşpa rău să fii evreu în SUA, şi de aici s-au născut multe-multe pagini furibunde în care personajul principal îşi spune, îşi strigă, ÎŞI URLĂ frustrările.Cât despre viaţa sexuală a aceluiaşi personaj, mi-a stârnit hohote de râs (cine naiba s-ar gândi să facă sex cu o bucată crudă de ficat?), groază şi milă.
Milă pentru că avem de-a face cu un om profund nefericit şi chinuit care, deşi îşi doreşte o familie şi copii, rămâne prins în menghina dorinţelor sexuale imposibil de satisfăcut.
İlk okumada cinselliği, ikincisinde ise kendi yaşadığım coğrafyada da gözlemlediğim, hissettiğim "mükemmelliyetçi aile dramı"nı ön plana alarak okudum. Özellikle ikinci bakışın ilk bakışı doğurması anlamında hala çok sevdiğim bir kitap. Diğer yandan Ölen Hayvan'ı da Portnoy'un Feryadı'nı da Philiph Roth'un yazmasına şaşırmadan edemiyorum.
Zeno Cosini in acido.Dissacrante, ossessivo, complesso.Chissà come dev’essere stato leggerlo nel ’69.Oggi è di certo meno sconvolgente sentir parlare di sesso, famiglia e tradizioni ebraiche in maniera così radicale.Qua e là c’è qualche momento meno godibile o non del tutto riuscito.A tratti lo segui a stento nei suoi voli pindarici. Tutto il resto è decisamente notevole. [75/100]
I can only imagine how daring and groundbreaking this book must have felt when it was first released in the late 1960s.
Honestly, despite all the responses and imitations this book no doubt engendered, I think Portnoy’s Complaint will always be in a category all its own, and I mean that in a good way.Really too bad about all the misogyny.
My appreciation was somewhat tempered by the fact that this book was clearly written under the impression that women just aren’t really people in the same way men are.
Sincere congratulations, Portnoy’s Complaint, for being so daring so many years ago and such an amusing relic now.
