https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3798703-the-spectacular-now
Part of me wants to gouge whatever scraps of hope I can from the close of Sutter’s story, hold onto the hints that things can and will eventually change, because not doing that hurts so much.
Tharp wrote this part of the story so powerfully; I felt anxious and helpless as I read, knowing where it was going and wanting to close my eyes to it, yet knowing there was no other way it could go.
If I put aside my hurt, raw feelings about the ending of this book – I can be objective and realise that it’s brilliant.
Okay... so I've been putting off this review because I was unsure about my rating. My initial reaction was FIVE STARS!! FIVE STARS!! but then I got to thinking about my dislike for the ending and thought maybe I should round it down to four... and then I was like "but is my problem with the ending because it was bad - or because it didn't go the way I wanted it to?"... so I eventually kept my five stars because I am so completely in love with the amazingly complicated and wonderful character th
He is complex, multi-dimensional, so vibrant and full of life that it's hard to accept that he isn't real and about to jump off the page.Tim Tharp has written a very funny, sad, thoughtful book that creates such an in-depth picture of a boy who is simultaneously lovable and exhausting.
I am friends with the female equivalent of Sutter Keely, a person who you always want at your parties because you know they'll bring every social situation to life, a person who is kind and means well but is very hard to deal with in any more than small doses, a person who is nearly always just a little drunk.
I can so easily feel the pain seeping out of the cracks in his bonhomie: when he reflects on all the girls that like him, but never seem to love him; when he thinks about how much better off his father is, now that he’s no longer living with his mother; when he tells the mother of a lost child, “Your son is hurting.
Pain like that can’t be contained forever, and I do feel that despite the ending, he has begun to see certain things more clearly.
The best way to deal with it is to live in the now, pursue all the pleasure and deal with none of the grief." That's the message I get from Sutter Keely, protagonist of The Spectacular Now. He takes a purely hedonistic, somewhat philosophical world view throughout the book.
Real life doesn't have closure; sometimes we end up shelving our problems in the back of our drunk brains as life goes on.I guess that's ultimately the true message of the novel, hopeless as it is.
Sutton had a drinking problem, family issues, a skewed view of life, but in the end, he brushes everything aside and lives in the "Spectacular Now".
This is one of those books that I went into thinking it was going to be a romance with a message, but pretty all-around feel-good.
I mean, yeah, there's a message, all right, but this book isn't exactly a fluffy candy feel-good story.
People seem to think that sex is the end-all, be-all of teenage stories, when really, being a teenager is about a lot more than hormones.
Sometimes, your teenage son or daughter having sex isn't the thing you should be worrying about most.I couldn't get over Sutter.
Kid breaks my heart every time I think of him.
I ended up seeing the theatrical adaptation at a free screening when it first came out in 2013 not really knowing what I was getting myself into (except, of course, a movie theater- for free) but the movie affected me and I fell in love with it because it immediately connected to my experience as a young adult without resorting to terminal illnesses or similar plot devices to get me invested into the lives of the characters.
I immediately started reading and was affected all over again in the best way.It's kind of hard for me to separate the book from the movie after having seen it and my review would probably be a little different if I were able to differentiate them adequately.
So I've been seeing the movie in stores and I was curious so I picked up the book...I must say that it was not the greatest book I've ever read but it wasn't the worst.
So I would give this book 3.5 stars.
At times this book just sort of dragged on and on.
I get it that it's about high school kids trying to find their way in life but I don't know just something about this book rubbed me the wrong way.
Decent enough I guess.
Aimee was probably the one redeeming quality about this book.
I don't know definitely won't read this book again....but I guess it was worth reading once =\
La verdad es que este libro fue una desilusión absoluta, una historia corriente, aburrida y lenta de leer. No conecte con ningún personaje de la historia, el desenlace fue totalmente predecible, la verdad no tengo nada bueno que decir de este libro. Reseña Completa: http://bastvilard.blogspot.com/2015/0...
He’s the guy who has friends from every social circle, can get people laughing in awkward situations, and has a smile every time you see him.
I think Tharp reflected alcoholism realistically and suitably on Sutter, even if sometimes it was hard for me, loving Sutter and all, to handle a 7UP and whiskey nearly every scene.Sutter starts out a drunk in the beginning of the book, and not many changes happen with him as we go along.
Not only did Tharp give her a personality - ex-girlfriend's are real people, you know - but he gave her rendition and space to show why Sutter loved her in the first place.
I thought it was supposed to be a light, funny read (not sure where I got that idea from) but at times it felt pretty heavy.And yes, there is swearing and drinking and some talk about sex, I am not sure why people keep warning about hese things in their reviews, where do you live in a bubble so you don't find that in real life?
The book itself is pretty straight-forward, the narrator is a high school senior named Sutter who likes to drink and is the life of the party.
I don't want to come across as priggish or a prude or anything like that, but I usually figured teen books should have some kind of 'good' in them.
Sutter should realize that his life is going no-where, he should have some moment where he sees that there needs to be more to life than acting like the fun jackass and being drunk all the time.
Every time I read a book that is popular I almost always end up hating it.
I wanted to read this book before I went to go see the movie, but I only want to go see the movie so I can scope out the acting of the two main characters since they are both casted for Divergent.
I absolutely hate alcohol, but this book glorifies it.
The main character drinks and drinks and glorifies drinking, kids will read this book and be like "wow he's got something going here maybe I should try it." Then he drinks and drives ALL the time.
Then tenes are reading this book and thinking it's no big deal!
2.5 Stars-It was a tad too predictable with no real closure to go with.-I don't like Sutter, he's that guy I cannot stand being with morph into that guy I cannot stand believing in.-I don't like Aimee.
She is too naive(?) for a 17 year old and simply too dependent on Sutter for everything which is actually worse than the nerd believing in equestrian fantasies before.-The ending ?
Sutter's drinking problem (Alcoholism like his isn't some piece of cake to quit).
Aimee turning into a lush.
Moving in together.
Dad. Mom.
Oh just forget about it, here's his 7up and Goodbye.
Of course she knows who he is, they’ve been going to the same school for years now and she can remember every class they shared and every hilarious thing he did – he’s cool and popular, so it’s no wonder he doesn’t recognise quiet, shy Aimee.
Our ‘jock’ in this case is no jock, but rather popular party boy Sutter Keely who doesn’t think he’s an alcoholic, even though he frequently drinks first thing in the morning and by himself.
Sutter is not a knight in shining armour – he’s a ticking time bomb who doesn’t know he is his own detonator and Aimee is his doomed damsel.
Wow. I'm not sure how I feel about this book. I'm going to sleep on it. Full review to come!
Sometimes it's brave for a book to portray drinking (I would call Sutter a teenage alcoholic but I don't think he would) without ever getting preachy or putting on the parent hat.
It's disarming, but sometimes it's good for a book to rile us up and challenge what we think is right.Sutter is one of those kids, the party boy with a heart of gold.
Beneath the fun party-loving facade, Sutter's real problem is that he doesn't think he's worthy of being loved.
I don't know if I hated this or I loathed it. Or maybe I just hold the whole setup in contempt... Boy with a superhero complex, wilting maiden who needs to be rescued... Oh and obvs she's not like other girls...........Excuse me while I search for something good to say about this book................still searching...It might be a while...
This book started out so well but ended unresolved in my eyes. I was expecting a fabulous ending but it fell a bit short. Also, I disliked how Sutter believed that Aimee needed him to change her but didn't fully acknowledge how he needed her to change him too. Don't get me wrong, I really liked the book, but it lacked that certain something that would warrant 5 stars.
My Actual Rating: 4.5 starsThe Spectacular Now is just so genuine that it hurts.
It just hurts in the worst possible way ever.
What shattered me the most was the book's ending.
Did it really have to end like that?
It's a mess.
And no mess can ever be solved if we don't do anything about it.
Sutter, he just remained living in his spectacular now.
He thought he could save someone but he never once thought that maybe he was the one in need of saving.
But maybe not everybody could ever be saved.
His character is not portrayed solely as an addict or an alcoholic, instead he's this extremely fun and charismatic person that everyone really can't help but love...
It's reflected in such a glamorized and non-gritty light and I can't help but take issue with that since this book is targeted towards children.
Sutter's story is truly a tragedy, I can only hope that for those children that do read this have parents that are willing to sit down and discuss with them the ravaging effects of alcohol.
I'm not a fan of Contemporary YA and I'm especially not a fan of novels about teenagers partying and drinking - which is, admittedly, a lot of what this book is.
Sutter, the teen who has popularity, a car, a job, and a girlfriend.
It captures the essence of the teenage years, but also the scary cliff that looms ahead when you're lost in your world.
THE SPECTACULAR NOW is a spectacular slice of life itself, with all its messiness and flaws, complications and oddities, and though it's not my favorite book out there, I can't recommend it enough.
*Minor editing sorry*There were moments I liked but overall I didn't care much for this book overall.
The only people here I felt attached to were Amy and after awhile, Cassidy.
I tried to give him a break but at a certain point I just stopped caring.
I kept hoping he would turn himself around but mentally I broke away from him and was just waiting to see if he was going to do the right thing Amy.The last few pages were what I expected really, but I was still disappointed.Why did I keep reading?
maybe because of Amy?
Maybe we jumped on his bandwagon for a short time in high school, but we likely knew him in one form or another.He is the life of the party; the one who is okay with destroying people's houses when he parties.
He wasn’t an enjoyable character and I kept thinking, “I know people just like you.
Don’t throw your life away like them!” But he just wasn’t listening to me (or maybe he was too drunk to care).
Well it's only cute until he starts to ruin her life in a different way than everyone else did.The realism in this book was like a slap in the face.
Did it have to end like that? :o(
¿Y qué puedo decir?...Sutter es un completo patético, y Aimee una idiota. A pasar de que los personajes no me gustaron, para nada desde un principio, albergue esperanzas de que el libro fuera bueno al final. ¿Pero qué creen? Es un completo fiasco. Respeto y valoro las diferentes opiniones, pero, en serio, no logro entender como varias personas me recomendaron este libro con tanta emoción, y jurando que es una obra maestra.
The book ends in a dark place for Sutter, a place where all we can do is hope that things eventually turn around for, as he calls himself, God's own drunk.A quick note for people who saw and loved the movie (as I did).
The book is even better, partly because as narrator Sutter's motivations are much clearer, but also because Aimee is obviously not a Shailene Woodley type.
At first, yeah, it was fun, if a little appalling, to read about Sutter's drunken adventures, giving a runaway kid a ride home while skipping school himself, meeting a shy newspaper delivery girl and bringing some fun into her life.
By the end of the book, I, like all of Sutter's girlfriends, was ready to kick him to the curb, and tell him to grow up.
Drinking all the time, not cool, man.
Hopefully, teens who read this will feel the same way, and not just think Sutter's cool.
One of the best books I have ever read. Highly enjoyable.Can't get enough of Tharp's writing. One of my favorite favorite authors.Read his work, end of.And forgive this book's movie. It was okay, but nothing like the book which was great. This book is very dear to my heart; like Neon Golden by Notwist is in this moment.
Puta pasada de final.
2.5⭐Apesar de não estar com expectativas muito altas, acabei por me desiludir mais do que estava a contar.
Sutter como narrador e protagonista e pouco empático, o que se tornou um problema para mim.
Apesar de ser um adolescente com problemas gravas de alcoolismo, solidão e falta de afectos; e de ser uma pessoa super bem intencionada nas acções do dia a dia, não me consegui importar com ele e com a falta de rumo da sua vida.
Mas o meu maior problema com este livro foi sem duvida a forma demasiado descontraída que o autor retratou temas bastante sérios e pesados.
Poderia ser uma estória muito melhor aproveitada mas acabou por ser mais um livro que não vai deixar saudades.
