https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/322179.The_Gods_Are_Not_to_Blame
But first, If you know this book: Oedipus Rex, then you already have an idea of what this story is about, it's implications, the cruelty of it's tragic plot, and amount of debate the question above presents.
At the time, I thought(and still think) the title of the book: The Gods Are Not To Blame wasn't an assertive declaration by the author - even if it simply presented itself as such - but rather it was the exact opposite, an open question in disguise, delivered for thought.
The Summary of the Gods are to blame is about boy who was born and was fore seen to end up killing his father as to marry his mother,but he wasn't aware of that fact,until he ended up killing his father in a bush part and married his own mother ,then calamity befell the village ,when he became the king and all his children fell sick at the verge of dieing.
I am so glad this story was set in a period during the Yoruba Kingdom, because this is the sort of thing that I grew up with, as a Cuban, it is a part of every ethnic group's culture, one of the many things that threads us together.
Aside this amazing influence, it was basically Oedipus Rex, with some slight changes.
Sadly, I prefer Sophocles' writing much more than Ola Rotimi's.
Although his adding of an allegory of colonization and decolonization was a nice bonus, and I did love the ending scene and quote: ″the gods have lied″ (which they tend to do a lot in myth)
"It is always best to keep your words soft and sweet, you might never know when you'd have to eat them"Odewale's tragic end might have been saved if only he let go off his pride.
I believe the problem of man is with man himself.The fact that odewale aided the people of kutuje,was not a prove of leadership mandate.The tragedy that befell kutuje people took its turn after the coronation of odewale as king by either Odewale or the people, without consulting the gods.In our days we make same conclusions when we make people who have helped us come through storms as Lord over our affairs.
a very interesting novel, a story of a man who killed his father and married his mother, this is something which does not happen very often.
The Gods are not to be blame is a story of a mans fate. king odewale who told will kil his father to marry his mother, in his attempt to run away from this to happen, ran to fulfil it. the gods are not to blame, because they have spoken and it is left for the subject to obey. if Gbonka had killed him in the bush as an infant, the curse would have been averted.
i like odewales bravery and hot temper.
"The Gods Are Not To Blame" is Ola Rotimi's retelling of Sophocles' "Oedipus The King" using a traditional African setting and characters. It was through this book that I first became acquainted with Oedipus' tale. What really stricks me about this book now is the title Rotimi chose. Rotimi's tale, like that of Sophocles, is about a man's struggle to avert his fate, and unfortunately, in the process, actually helps to bring about its fulfillment. That is why "The Gods Are Not To Blame."
that we shld not let our temper let us into other bad things that we are going to regret later in the future because it is going to affect us very badly like Odewale's temper lead him to his grave that should not happen to any reasonable humanbeign who have consience.
Ola Rotimi
this book is very interesting i will encourage every one to read it
This is my most favorite book in my literature class in High School.Though it portrays the African Traditions, there is a lot to learn from irrespective of whom you are and where you come from. "Kola nut indeed, last longer in the mouth of the one who cherish it". - From the book 'The Gods are not to Blame.
ola Rotimi's book is very inspiring.i learnt that what we say,do,watch,portray and everything else around us determines our destiny.trully the gods are not to blame for whatever happens.I believe odewale's fate would have been averted if he had stayed with his real parents.
A classical tale (play here) transposed onto African soil, as it were. An ending that really breaks one's heart. As usual with Rotimi, the dialogue is colourful, fecund, brimming with camaraderie or even enmity...a superb work.
I LEARN ONE BASIC DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE AFRICAN TRADITIONAL NORMS AND THAT OF THE WESTERN WORLD WHICH IS AFRICANS BELIEVE THAT ONES DESTINY IS DECIDED BY THE GODS BUT THE WESTERNERS BELIEVE YOU MAKE YOUR OWN DESTINY WHICH I BELIEVE IS TRUE.
i learned that the issue of generation curse is a strong issues
D gods re 2 blamed....
reading
The play is very rich with oral traditions.
Would have been a five if not that the ending wrenched my heart.But beautiful, beautiful twists I didn't see coming.
Few truly transcend to being a great "read" on their own, and I will take some flack for that opinion but I feel that this play would shine on stage, with the costumes and music and dance that are all here in the written word.
If you are familiar with Oedipus and there are some people who have never heard of it, I am sure, you need to read this new take on it; and imagine if you will, it living and breathing on the stage.
WELL AM NEVER GOING TO THINK WITH MY HEART FROM NOW ONWARDS AND THATS A PROMISE
its good way if want to improve your level
i want to read this book in order to learn about my destiny
i want to read the gods are not to blame by olarotimi
The God's are not to blame was a school text book. An African retelling of Oedipus Rex. A fantastic read. This was one of the most re-read and quoted books in my girls boarding school.
literature
Full of humour and ironies!! But personally I believe the gods are to blame. Once the prophesy was made, Human actions ensured it came to pass!
IT WAS A COOL BOOK. I ENJOYED IT SO MUCH THAT I READ IT OVER AND OVER AGAIN!
