https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1432991.Earth_and_High_Heaven
This will almost certainly be on my books of the year list – a book I couldn’t stop reading but didn’t want to finish.
It’s hard to convey in a review just how lovely this book is, you may just need to read it.
First published in 1944 – those first readers could not have known whether the happy ending that is implicit in the novel’s opening sentence would be replicated for the allies.Gwethalyn Graham explores the divisions and deeply entrenched prejudices which existed in Canadian society, through the story of Erica Drake and Marc Reiser who meet and fall in love.
This is the second time that I have read this book.
However, if that is because it is set in Montreal during World War II, then every novel that is set in a particular time and place is dated.
Graham unflinchingly presents the blatant anti-Semitism that was systemic in Canada at that time: hotels and apartment buildings that did not admit Jews, universities that had a quota system with a very limited number of places for Jewish students, athletic and social clubs that had “select members” only.
Although our society has become much more inclusive almost 70 years later, that does not mean that a book written about that era is dated.
Needs to be read in context of the 1930’s and 40’s when it was groundbreaking, apparently. Now it is a rather (actually, very) predictable love story between a Jew and a Montreal WASP. All the twists and arguments seem a bit forced however, they are there to carry the message that G wanted to present - that is, to show how prejudiced Canadian society was towards Jews. All very worthy, but the writing itself is not good enough to compensate.
Set in 1942 during the height of the Nazi regime when the rest of the world was getting really nervous, we meet Erica Drake and Marc Rieser.
Marc, of Jewish descent, and Erica, of notable gentry, fall in love much to the consternation of her family.
Throughout we watch Erica learn the true meaning of prejudice and fight tooth and nail for what she believes in.For anyone who thinks Canada has a perfect, squeaky clean record, this book will set you straight.
From French-Catholic hate to anti-Semitism, Canada has a record just as bad as any other country.
At least we learned.
What I really enjoyed was the true descriptions and insight the author gave regarding Canada.
My favourite quote from the book was, "Manchester itself is a tribute to the Canadian talent for choosing a remarkably fine natural setting for a town, and then proceeding to ruin it as far as possible." Besides Montreal, in which the story takes place, ths is mostly true!Beautiful story that provides an argument for the need to make change instead of wait for others to make it for you.
Empowering, insightful and well-written.
Read of this Canadian writer in the biography of Mordecai Richler. This was a book that made a splash when Richler was school age, although he was supposedly unaware of it. A story of forbidden love between an anglo protestant woman and jewish man during WWII montreal. Racist times indeed and a real page turner, if a bit plodding at times with the focus on the inner thoughts of the characters.
I'm told this is a very popular and important novel. I could barely get through it.
I loved this Canadian period story of a Jewish/Protestant courtship fraught with disapproval from families and doubts from the main characters. There was lots of dialogue and descriptions of thoughts and motivations, all adding up to an engrossing read. It’s datedness didn’t lower the appeal for me, and provided a realistic picture of anti-Semitism during WWII outside of Germany. Highly recommended.
I first read this when I was in high school (70’s). It was my mother’s who was in a book club years before. I was desperate for something to read and scrounged around and found this old book. It really made an impact on me. I have read it once later and now again. Very well written. It made me think about things I had never considered before. This book and Gentlemen’s Agreement remind me of each other. Great book.
One of my favorite books in a long while. This reminded me of To Kill a Mockingbird but with a Canadian twist. I feel this will become a classic for me! A stunning piece of literature.
One of my favourite books I've ever read - this is such a beautiful read and is still so relevant today
Such a lovely book!
Set in Montreal in 1942 there are three distinct groups in society -- English protestants, French Catholics and Jews.
This is the story of a young woman from an upper class WASP family falling in love with a young Jewish lawyer and it was a very important book in it's time but was so period specific that it went out of print for twenty years even though it won Canada's ultimate literary award in 1944.
It is reminiscent of the movie "Guess Who's Coming Dinner" which was an Academy Award winner in 1967 and also a big sensation for a short period of time.
Graham wrote this book in 1944 and won the Governor General's award for it.
I read it as a teenager and reread it now for book club.
It still is a powerful read.
The story is set in 1942 Montreal.
This is a story of a gentile girl from a prominent Montreal family falling in love with a Northern Ontario Jewish lawyer.
Erica and Marc's families both are against their love and the book explores this dilemma.
Sometimes the story gets weighted down with the dialogue exploring this theme.
I think the theme is still relevant today.
I seem to recall doing a presentation on this book, and someone in my class not agreeing with my interpretation of the storyline. Another book for looking at Canadian history through a literary lens.
Gentile woman and Jewish man meet in WWII Canada. Her family racist but not pro Hitler. Sould they marry?I don't want to give anything away.
So dated... and interesting perspective of the time in Canada. I liked this book more when I was finished it and could discuss it with my book club.
Read for www.roughingitinthebooks.com
A great work with a ton a very quotable moments. Great for stirring ones thoughts on many issues including society and racism.
Earth and high heaven by Gwethalyn Graham (1944)
Canada's "Gentlemen's Agreement" but written in 1944. It won the Governor General's Award that year.
not particularly well written - often way too wordy. sometimes, though, i really identified with the described emotions of the main character, erica drake. ending was predictable.
This book is "dated" in a good way, like a portal to another time and place--Montreal during the 40s, and the pervasive anti-Semitic attitudes of the time.
Amazing writing describing the anti-Semitism in Montreal in the 1940's!
This was an excellent book. It was written by a Canadian author, from Toronto. Her book was published in 1944 and was released again. It is an excellent story about the issues of racism and diversity and the human spirit. She was ahead of her time when she wrote the story, but it was by far one of the best books I have read in a long time.
