https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/886052.Pure_Theory_of_Law
Kelsen is truly something else!
Kelsen is a clever jurist who approached legal positivism in a novel and interesting way.
Previous theories of legal positivism tend to revolve around the power of the sovereign.
Kelsen took things a different direction and put the authority of law in to followers of the law.
In this book, we learn about the Basic Norm (Grundnorm) and how subjects of the law adopt a unique Basic Norm according to their situation.
Further, Kelsen describes the nature of the jurist, explaining the science of law and how this science is different from morality and justice.The ideas in this book are amazing.
Este libro es como regresar el tiempo y re-tomador TODAS mis clases que he tenido en mis 4 semestres de la universidad.
Hans Kelsen es un genio, que me ha acompañado y me acompañrá para toda mi vida, creo que es tiempo de que nos hagamos amigos, porque es ideal para consultar cuando tenga alguna duda o quiera aclarar algo.
Un aplauso a mi profesora de Lógica Juridica por haber hecho "La teoría pura del derecho" el primer libro del semestre.
*se emociona porque aún quedan como 5 más* *sarcasmo*
What many consider Hans Kelsen's magnum opus, this book is the cornerstone of modern continental law and when one reads it one goes back when he was just a pupil in class hearing about the basis of Law and State or of the philosophical differences between positive and natural law.Simply put, no lawyer or legal professional or enthusiast should pass up on this book.
It is a must read.If a were to draw any criticism it would be about about Kelsen's writing style.
This makes the book a heavy read, one that must be attempted with the utmost patience, but one , however, that is vital to any jurist.
What a way to perceive the meaning of the law. This is the beginning of positivism. If you are going to be a lawyer, you must have read this one.
Libro obligado en la carrera de Derecho. Kelsen padre del IUS positivismo.
Además el autor insiste con el afán de separar al Derecho como ciencia de cualquier otro objeto tales como la Moral o la Política, en este intento -propio de los iuspositivistas- Kelsen es posiblemente quien mejor haya sustentado un argumento plausible.A quien desee profundizar en esta obra seriamente se le recomienda leer sendas ediciones de la Teoría Pura del Derecho (la primera y la segunda) que encuentran importantes diferenciad que ayudan al estudioso a profundizar sobre el razonamiento kelseniano y el funcionamiento de la Grundnorm.Al final, la gran pregunta detrás de esta obra es Qué hay detrás de la Grundnorm?
Uma das mais importantes obras jurídicas do século XX, Teoria pura, consiste na tentativa de Kelsen de "tirar" do Direito as influências da Política, História, Moral e demais ciências.
Respeitando a hierarquia da norma fundamental (da qual deriva a famosa piramide kelseniana), Kelsen afirma somente a existência do direito positivado (negando, assim, o direito natural).Embora os autores contemporâneos a critiquem em muitos pontos, Teoria pura do direito, continua a ser um livro citado, utilizado e do qual a leitura é de vital importância na Faculdade de Direito.
His is quite different than my usual readings, because this is a college book. About Law.But i have to say it actually griped me, I really liked how Kelsen explains his theory and how easily we can project them to our day-to-day reality!I don't usually add those kinds of books to my GR countdown, but I actually read this book in full when I would uponly need chapter 1, and it was worth it!!
good
mmmmm NORMA FUNDAMENTAL...
Un giorno questo kelsen ti sarà utile
explica en palabras de Kelsen, sus posiciones que fundamentan la teoría Pura del Derecho
Genius!! It purported my vocation.
