https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21570318-crimson-bound
Her dreams were a tangled mess of blood and shuddering trees. This book is damn near perfect.I just don't know how to review this wonderful, creepy, gory, clever, twisty fairy tale and be able to do it justice. How do you sell a book to people when it does so many different things and does them all marvelously? I just cannot wait for Cruel Beauty fans to read this.Crimson Bound is a story full of villains who are allowed to love and heroines who are allowed to murder and be selfish. Rosamund Ho
This book is damn near perfect.I just don't know how to review this wonderful, creepy, gory, clever, twisty fairy tale and be able to do it justice.
I just cannot wait for Cruel Beauty fans to read this.Crimson Bound is a story full of villains who are allowed to love and heroines who are allowed to murder and be selfish.
There are plenty of gruesome battles, sexy scenes and things younger teens might find disturbing.Now for the story; but I cannot tell you too much because you deserve to discover everything in this book on your own.
Anyway, the story is about Rachelle who carelessly strays from the forest path and meets a forestborn who marks her.
‘‘Tell me about the Devourer,’’ she said. ‘‘What is he, really?’’‘‘The breath in our mouths and the hunger in our hearts,’’ said the forestborn. ‘‘Be patient, little girl. You’ll meet him yourself someday.’’ Crimson Bound was a mesmerizing read. Unlike I first imagined, this was no retelling of Little Red Riding Hood. For sure, some elements here and there could be compared to that classic story, but, like Cruel Beauty, this novel took unexpected turns. It’s not… You can’t… In vain did I make p
‘‘Tyr and Zisa killed the Devourer,’’ she said.
It was a fairytale nonetheless, for the narration and writing gave this feeling to the reader of reading something otherworldly precious and… dark.
Rachelle never wanted, never in her worst nightmares imagined that she will one day be a bloodbound.
I mean, I discerned a love-triangle taking slowly form but my enjoyment of the characters made it impossible for me to be turned off by it.
I think I’m falling in love with you.’’‘‘I don’t have anything else to give you, either’’ he said.
Boring plotUnlikeable heroineGross love triangle
Great premise - unsatisfactory execution. The whole time the book was like: And my reaction every single time was like: My biggest problem with this book was that it tried to be something extra-ordinary and unique and great, but both the plot-line and the characters felt like rip-offs from Cruel Beauty. As somebody who is fond of the original Red Riding Hood tale and had if not very high, but expectations nonetheless, I must say that I was extremely disappointed. First, there was the lack of a
The whole time the book was like: And my reaction every single time was like: My biggest problem with this book was that it tried to be something extra-ordinary and unique and great, but both the plot-line and the characters felt like rip-offs from Cruel Beauty.
And maybe, if I hadn't read Hodge's other book before, I would have ended up liking the characters.
Dragging plot with very little progression, no character development, a gloomy atmosphere that annoyed me after a while that's what I got in this book.
This is not a world-building, this is a soup : Basically Rosamund Hodge used TONS of French folklore/history/literature references which isn't a problem per se but which became one when I couldn't connect with the story anymore because I was too busy trying to make sense of the world-building.
Wouldn't you feel confused if a character was named Abraham Lincoln but wait - not that Abraham Lincoln?
If the city was named after where you live but wait - not that city?
If the kingdom was named after a very famous legend you know but wait - not that legend?
"She didn't want to be a martyr. She didn't have a choice." That quote sums up my reading experience.It took me five months to finish Crimson Bound.  Five months.  I'd open it, read a few pages, then see a butterfly and follow it until sunset. The characters don't grab me. I don't give a flying fuck about Rachelle or Armand or their irrational quest to find Joyeuse, a sword which can kill the Devourer. They make out/confess their undying love for each other beside a sleeping lindworm and I was
That quote sums up my reading experience.It took me five months to finish Crimson Bound.
Marked by a forestborn, she needs to kill someone in three days or die herself.
The forestborn who marked Rachelle was going to kill her anyway.
The premise is very similar to Cruel Beauty: vague world-building, good-guy-vs-bad-guy love triangle, and a 'dark' heroine whose soul is as black as vanilla ice-cream.
Just like Frozen is a retelling of The Ice Queen.I liked Cruel Beauty, but this is just a hot mess.ARC provided by Edelweiss.
Quotes taken from an uncorrected galley proof and may be subject to change.Pre-review:The cover design looks a lot like Cruel Beauty...
I don't like it when a love between two people is shoved in my face; rather, I want it to be subtle and in the background and happening naturally.Because of that experience, I was wary of starting Crimson Bound, as I feared being overwhelmed once more.
Obviously, as you can see, I gave in and tried it last night, and just finished it 5 minutes ago.And all I can say is: this book is way better than Cruel Beauty.I mean, if you value her Fussiness' opinion, of course (I am too nitpicky for my own good).First of all, the setting.
"Everyone tries to be good until it stops being convenient"  There's only one reason I gave her works another try: Her writing. It's so fluent. Like that in her previous book, Cruel Beauty. I think this book is better than Cruel Beauty in regards of plot. I loved it.It's also the first Red Riding Hood retelling I read. I enjoyed it because of writing and plot. Otherwise, the character development wasn't upto my satisfaction. I couldn't make myself to die-hard love any of them. Only Armand was
Like that in her previous book, Cruel Beauty.
I think this book is better than Cruel Beauty in regards of plot.
Along with humans, there are bloodbounds, forestborns woodwife(s).
Forestborns mark humans after which the marked one has to kill someone in three days and become a bloodbound or die.Bloodbounds are to be executed except for the ones in king's army.
She convinced him to find the only weapon to kill Devourer.
Like to kill him twice.
First Armand killed him with the sword when Devourer possessed her.
After that she woke up in Devourer's stomach killed him again?
NOBODY TOUCH ME IM CRYING IN 58 LANGUAGES----- pre-reading: i read an excerpt of this in the back of cruel beauty and it was SO enchanting y'all. now i'm buddy reading this with my irl best friend what could be better ♥️
What happened here? D:PS: Sorry guys, my classes are back so I'm away for a bit :/I'll adjust my reviews later. Love you all <3
I really wanted this book to be good.Plot: had potentialLove triangle: *gags*Heroine: likableLove interest(s): unbelievable, insta-loveish, and I ended up liking the wrong guy Writing: saving grace.Me: disappointed Everything just boils down to my inability connect to the story.
The world building needed some fleshing out (things just got waaaayyyyy too convenient at one point), the romance was half-assed and lacked that spark (also *continues dry-heaving* love triangle), and the plot had so much potential it hurt.
However, I was able to finish it, thanks to writing and the characters (which, themselves, are not unlikable).
Sorry for the super crappy review.
Too bad for her, surviving the curse means she actually becomes a cursed creature.So what's a girl to do with the time she has left as a human?Well, Rachelle decides to serve her kingdom as a supernatural hunter.
He's (supposedly) lost his hands when refused to kill an innocent in order to survive his curse.
His father, in order to use his popularity to quell the rebels, assigns Rachelle to protect him, and insists that they accompany him to a heavily warded royal house in the country.She hates her new charge, Armand, because if he is being honest, that means she didn't have to kill her aunt.
Crimson Bound has one of the most unique imaginative worlds I've ever come across.
It's going to be so you, too, I swear.Other than the world-building, I would also give two thumbs up for Rosamund's elegant writing.
I was hoping for a little more development and a lot less love-triangle, but I wasn't bothered too much by this aspect because the story's main focus was on the action and adventure, which I adored.I would definitely recommend this one to anyone looking for a dark, mysterious, and unique retelling.
The main character in this is Rachelle, essentially a half-human, half-demon, enslaved by an evil forest.
The plot follows Rachelle's adventures/ misadventures destroying the evil forest that possesses her and terrorizes the whole kingdom.
The main love interest is a dude named Armand, essentially a prince of the kingdom.
He also has no hands, which was an interesting complexity to his character.The other main dude/ semi-love interest is a half-demon guy named Erec, who kept making me think of Eric from Trueblood.So I didn't actually mind that.Aaaaanyways, I enjoyed this and look forward to her next book (which is coming out this year!) :D
*sighs* How I love retelling and fairy-tale.
This book is a bit bored in the first half, but the last half just pick up and turn SO GOOD!
I really like the idea and the writing style of this author!
How she create her retelling with the references of myth or other stuff.
I might not love this one as mush as Cruel Beauty But still like it very much!
Love her romance.
This one still not disappointed me about romance, the characters are just interesting and fascinating.
eiei I crave for more of her book!
Why she didn't write more of this series?
I'm just a girl, standing in front of a book, asking it to come to her.
But still prettyWhat I didn’t like: 1.RachelleI have never ever ever ever read a character so near sighted, so stupid, and so brash and did I mention SO FUCKING STUPID.
I mean I get it, as a writer my imagination can spun wildly and shit but sis don’t I deserve a bit of explanation on what the fuck is going on because 430 pages later I’m still lost 4.Character developmentShitty person becomes less shitty because she’s so brave yay my hero.
I want what the author was smoking when she wrote this because who the fuck sits down and think this is a retelling of red riding hood?
I see all the 4 & 5 stars from friends & reviewers I follow for Crimson Bound and I am disappointed why I didn't like this more, as this is a 2.5 stars read for me.
The plot was quite promising but the execution, doh', felt flat.(view spoiler)[ Right round 75% when I realized that forest borns could just infiltrate basically everywhere, I just couldn't recover my waning interest because the plan to give the Devourer a body seemed convoluted after that.
(hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[Plus why in the fuckity fuck would Erec D'Anjou have Rachelle guard Armand, when she's the worse person for the job because she hates the Devourer and the forest born's credo.
www.melissa413readsalot.blogspot.comI sat here awhile trying to decide if I liked this book better than Cruel Beauty and I think I do, but the other one was really good too.
The whole book is strange but in a good way.
You have a lot of that going around in the book it seems.
All Rachelle wants to do is defeat the Devourer to lift the curse she has on herself and to save the people.
This is a book you are just going to have to read for yourself because people have mixed feelings about it.
(Source: I received a digital copy of this book for free on a read-to-review basis. Thanks to HarperCollins and Edelweiss.) “This story begins with endless night and infinite forest; with two orphaned children, and two swords made of broken bone. It has not ended yet.” This was an okay YA fantasy story, but I did lose patience towards the end.Rachelle was a girl who didn’t give up what she was trying to achieve no matter the consequences. She knew that it would be tough to find one of the hidden
This was an okay YA fantasy story, but I did lose patience towards the end.Rachelle was a girl who didn’t give up what she was trying to achieve no matter the consequences.
The only thing that this book had that was anything like little Red Riding Hood was the girl in a red cape on the cover.
That being said, the story didn’t bother me too much, but I found it confusing to follow in places, and the slow pace made the book drag and drag.
By the end I was really losing patience with the slow pace, and I just wanted to find out what happened and get to the end!
Its a damn good thing the romance was pushed to the background in favor of Rachelle's quest to find the Joyeuse sword and kill the Devourer, otherwise, I would have straight up given this a 1, despite its great writing and grit.I hated the love triangle.
The same thing happened in the author's other book, Cruel Beauty, where there was a completely unnecessary and annoying love triangle between- again- a nice, albeit mysterious, guy, an experience-hardened girl and a guy (or, in that case, a shadow) who rubs on you the wrong way.
An ARC of this title was provided by the publisher in exchange for an honest review. My thoughts are my own.This review can also be found at The Starry-Eyed Revue.I loved  Crimson Beauty  so much that I've already read and/or listened to it over five times since I received the ARC a little over a year ago. Beauty and the Beast has always been one of my favorite fairy tales, followed very closely by Little Red Riding Hood. Intriguing that one of my new favorite authors on the scene has retold bot
And her sophomore novel may have trumped her debut on my list of favorite retellings ever.The thing is, I can't really talk about the aspect I loved the most in this story because it would probably be considered a major spoiler to most if I revealed anything about it.
It's just…the way she weaves a tale you already know and love into a story that's wholly it's own is rather remarkable.
. I absolutely LOVED how Hodge combined these tales to make one truly engaging story, one where the evil is closer than you know or want to admit, and trusting anyone else might be your biggest mistake yet.
In Crimson Bound, Ms. Hodge incorporates a mixture of The Grandmother's Tale (a 14th century French version of Little Red Riding Hood) and The Girl without Hands.
It has not ended yet." God, I love this author!My favorite quote:"Everyone tries to be good until it stops being convenient."Note: I so desperately wanted to share Ms. Hodge's inspiration for Crimson Bound, and show how it connects to the original fairytales, but it's just too detailed.
Also, if you're interested in reading the original fairytales, you can find The Grandmother's Tale at THIS WEBSITE and The Girl without Hands at THIS ONE.
Pero bueno hay gente que se queja cuando una trama es plana y luego le das algo mas complicado y se andan quejando también, que hormonales, quien los entiende?!?!
Lo que para mi brilla mas además del world-building que es muy profundo de forma simple, son los personajes.
En especial Rachelle y Erec, creo que la autora les dio unos desarrollos muy buenos y los supo manejar muy bien para acomodarlos en la historia, ambos son mas de lo que parecen a simple vista, un gran acierto.
Muy recomendado, definitivamente mas profundo de lo que creí, con personajes interesantes y una historia algo desviada del cuento original pero con los elementos mas claves ahí metidos.
3-I expected-so-much-more-stars Rosamund Hodge and her debut novel, Cruel Beauty, was one of the best gems of 2014 - at least for me.
I was looking forward to reading her second novel, Crimson Bound.
First of all, if my memory serves me right, originally this was supposed to be story set into the same fictional world as Cruel Beauty.
Or I just overlooked that note in the book description stating that Crimson Bound is not part of the same fictional world.
I am not the fan of main female character.
Rosamund Hodge just became an auto buy author! I completely fell in love with this world.
This one, however, was more like my kind of book – it has action, gore, sexy romance, fantasy, and a dark world that’s also fascinating.I think this book ended up being better than Cruel Beauty not only for the fact I said before, though.
Most of the story is set in the forest, which was a bit creepy because of that Devourer and the dangers they had to fight, but I loved it.I must say that this book would have been miles better if the audience had not been young adult.
It definitely hasn't helped that I started this right before my son was born and had to put it down for quite a while.
When I picked it back up I was so lost.
I've put it down and picked it back up 3 times now and tried both the print and audio formats but was never able to get invested.
I'm just no longer interested.The audiobook narrator (Elizabeth Knowelden) reads in a very soothing, beautiful voice and I did enjoy listening to her but I don't think audio format helped the details stick.I think this is a story that would benefit from being able to read it one shot.
But Hodge managed to keep me fairly engaged and interested, even when I was confused.
She’s very unlikable at times, but her character feels so realistic that it’s easy to ignore.
(hide spoiler)]The plot between Rachelle and Armand was awesome.
I feel the same way about this romance plot as I did about the romance from Daughter of Smoke and Bone; yes, there's a wiff of instalove, but their relationship dynamic is compelling.
VERDICT: Despite some disengagement in the first half, this book manages to land solidly on its feet with excellent character work, a twisty plot, and a sweet romance.
Hodge almost always sets up an interesting premise and populates it with fun characters, but I have noticed there's consistently some elements missing from her novels.
In Crimson Bound, I also felt myself taken out of the story by some of the strange things that were happening to our main character.
This kind of diversion causes me to feel shallowly invested in the overall outcome.I will say though there's something very sexy about how Hodge writes her love interests.
If you enjoy fairytale retellings with a twist, I would recommend Crimson Bound, just do not expect an intricate fantasy with deep characters.
