https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/69571.Rich_Dad_Poor_Dad
Here is the message of the book, and as far as I can tell, the only thing of value in its pages: * When you own something, it is either putting money into your pockets, or taking money out of your pockets.
Early in the book the author lists royalties as a form of income.
I then saw the $10+ I dropped on this book as just another dollar in his pocket.
He writes about 200 pages of repetitive, non-specific advice with only one interesting message (see above), and people line up to throw money at him because of a compelling title and a tough-love story.
This book may do a good job of getting you excited about your financial future but the false information it teaches negates any benefits.I believe this book does a disservice to the public.
Any accountant will tell you so.The book is full of exaggerated and sometimes completely false anecdotes -- for example, it appears the entire premise of the book is false -- there never was a rich dad and Robert wasn't wealthy until he embraced MLM and started selling get-rich books.If you just want some motivation, please try another book such as "The Millionaire Next Door." If you want sound personal financial advice, please read "The Only Investment Guide You'll Ever Need."See http://www.johntreed.com/Kiyosaki.html for an in-depth critique of Kiyosaki and charts showing the correlation between education and wealth.
This book is not just about money.
educated in our motives, in money, in the world around us..
The book is great for people like me who think in pictures and in theory.
He explains his financial theories clearly and adds diagrams to explain how money flows into and out of our wallets.
I have read other financial self-help books and they were too detailed, too "do this...do that..." For me that didn't help or motivate me because, I don't do anything unless I want to do it.
They told me what I needed to correct..
why should I take steps to correct it?
شكل ثورة في عالم الكتب التي تحكي عن الثراء وكيفية الحصول على الاكتفاء بل ربما الغنى ..سأقول نقطة جلية ضرورية بعيدة كل البعد عن الكتاب ..أثناء قراءتي للكتاب والتي امتدت لأكثر من شهر ..
هل يعني أن ما كتب لك يجعلك تثبط عن العمل والتعرف على طرق الثراء ؟لا ..
أما الخصوم فهي التي يظن الناس أنها تخدمهم وهي تضرهم ..فكرة الأصول والخصوم والإيرادات والمصروفات ..
فهي التي تدر على الإنسان دخلاً يضاف إلى خانة الإيرادات ..
تذهب إيراداتهم إلى خانة الخصوم ليأخذ منها ما يشاء ..
فإنهم ينفقون ما يرد عليهم من أموال في خانة النفقات دون أن يستفيدوا منها ..أجعل لكم الفرصة لقراءة الكتاب ...
The self-made may use this book, but to continue projects they are already working on, not to start their 'dream business' from scratch.There is another option for the marketability of this book, but it is not one I like to think about: depressed people who feel their lives going nowhere trying to stave off depression by clinging to untenable dreams.
I'd like to think that these sales would drop off after the 'miracle of real estate' turned out to be another hollow investment bubble, but in these dire times, people are even more desperate to find the path to economic stability.Now, I know that most people who (don't say 'peddle', don't say 'peddle') market these self-help (or new age) products are not usually scam artists.
LechterRich Dad Poor Dad is a 1997 book written by Robert Kiyosaki and Sharon Lechter.
Rich Dad Poor Dad is written in the style of a set of parables, ostensibly based on Kiyosaki's life.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز شانزدهم سپتامبر سال 2011 میلادیعنوان: بابای پولدار بابای بی پول؛ نویسنده: رابرت تی.
یکی از دلایل پولدار شدن پولدارها و بی­ پول شدن بی ­پولها، و دست و پا زدن طبقه ی متوسط در قرض و بدهی، این است که موضوع پول، صرفا در خانه مطرح می­شود، و در نظام آموزشی جای ندارد.
برای پولدار شدن لازم است در ابتدا یاد بگیرید، که با مخ خود پول دربیاورید.
But here’s the thing - I’m 28 years old, married with no kids, spent the better part of the last 10 years at uni and I work full time.
This book made me think about what I’m doing with my money and gave me some insight into the kind of things I am now going to look into and research.
It talks about his father (the Poor Dad) who is university educated and hard working, but supposedly foolishly believes that getting an education and then a secure job is a waste of time.
Things like, helping people, making things, research, writing, hell – even working.

به پنج دليل عمده، ستونِ دارايی ‌های برخی از آنان كه اطلاعاتِ مالی نیز دارند، اغلب خالی ميمانددليل‌هایِ پنجگانه چنينند: 1 - ترس 2- بدبينی 3- تنبلی 4- عادت‌های نادرست 5- تكبر------------------------------------------------------------------------------دوستانِ ایرانی و عزیزم، این را بدانید که: شخصِ احمق و بیخرد را میشود پولدار نمود، اما کمتر پیش می آید که شخصِ پولداری را بتوان احمق کرد...
و نکتۀ مهّم این است که کسی که هم پول دارد و هم نادان و بیخرد است، خطرناکترین عضو جامعه میباشد و میتواند خیلی ها را به تباهی بکشدعزیزانم، پولدارها همواره حاضرند که احمق به نظر بیایند، تا مگر، به میزان دارائیشان افزود شود...
While driving for the Thanksgiving vacation, my husband and I listened to Robert Kiyosaki’s book, Rich Dad, Poor Dad, on CD. This book helped us to expand and to think outside the box when it came to money. It gave us many things to think about and other ways to view our finances. I enjoyed it so much that I not only listened to it twice on CD, but also read the book itself. In his book, Kiyosaki reveals that he had two fatherly perspectives while growing up. His biological father maintained an
While driving for the Thanksgiving vacation, my husband and I listened to Robert Kiyosaki’s book, Rich Dad, Poor Dad, on CD.
This book helped us to expand and to think outside the box when it came to money.
The two men regarded money differently, which caused young Robert to compare and ponder the different things each dad taught.
He applied these principles in his life, and, like his rich dad, prospered financially.
Much of what he says caused me to change my normal perspective as I considered a different way of thinking.
I wish everyone would read this.
I wish the close-minded, those who graduated from whatever school they attended and haven't allowed themselves a new thought since, could break through the stone walls they have erected around their souls and let this in.
This message can save our world!
What Kiyosaki has to say on education should be broadcast, read, and studied, and all education systems in the world should take him into account.
If a lot more people would read and take to heart his financial advice, I think the world's economy would be much better.
READ IT!Here is one of my favorite lines from it, approximately quoted: "I have never met a rich man who hasn't lost a lot of money, but I have met a lot of poor men who have never lost a dime." True!
Everytime I lose money in an investment, I remember how much better I am for investing and making my money work for me than just hiding it and hoping nothing bad happens to it.Also, I loved the story of the young talented writer who came to Robert Kiyosaki and lamented not being able to get published.
And I love and learn from Robert Kiyosaki, who is great at that.
After some recent events in my life I wanted to understand the financial thinking of people who were raised wealthy and those who were not.
I understand that he was using specific examples in his financial success which is essential for writing a book in this genre but he was just being pretentious and inflated.It was a line in chapter six that made me halt and decide to put down the book for good.
I won't finish this book and will read financial advice from people who are intelligently wealthy, more humbled and less pompous.
قرأت الكتاب بالعربية منذ حوالي عامين باسم الاب الغني و الاب الفقير يحكي مؤلف الكتاب ان من قام بتربيت
Sorry, but this book is a bunch of mumbo-jumbo BS.The concepts in this book, to me, are common sense and there are no concrete applications to his ideas. Yes, the poor get poorer while the rich get richer, there's a ground-breaking idea! Yes, most people don't know how to manage their money, we know, so how about telling us how?The majority of the book is Kiyosaki wanking it, telling us stories about his life (which I don't even think are true).If you want to learn about personal finance and investment strategies, this is not the book for you.
Със собствените ми мисли обаче резонира цялостната теза на Кийосаки, че хората безспирно бачкат за едни мизерни пари (да, дори тези, които не печелят никак малко), колкото да си покрият основните разходи и да си купят някоя джиджавка, та да се почувстват хора.
И колкото повече бачкаш, толкова повече ти става ясно как няма особен смисъл и трябва дори да бачкаш още.
Да, зная, че има хора, които обожават работата си и са щастливи дори на малко пари, за да правят това, което обичат, но повечето не са така.
اصلن نمیدونم چرا فروشنده بهم پیشنهاد کرد اینوو اصلن نمیدونم چرا اون موقع خوندمش :|
The contents of this book, tells the story of a young man, who is the author himself, being brought up by his natural father the conventional way of getting a job, saving every penny, working hard and climbing the corporate ladder.
Talk about vicious cycle!The main point of this book is to educate yourself on personal finance, which is to learn how to become financially independent by making money work hard for you and not you working hard to earn every single penny.
There is no need for you to work for another person if you do not want to, in order to fulfill what you want in life.

For instance he states that "Our staggering national debt is due in large part to highly educated politicians and government officials making financial decisions with little or no training on the subject of money" ( p.
*I like how the author challenges the "conveyor belt" ideas regarding money, spending, employment (For instance, he challenges the idea of only relying on an employer.
Although he presents "examples".*I like how the author encourages the reader to be generous with his/her money.
In it Mr. Kiyosaki contrasts his own father--Poor Dad--who got a good education, worked hard, but never quite made it big, with the father of one of his friends, who was quite successful and took Mr. Kiyosaki under his wing.
I was moved to read this book because, as I've been looking over my finances, I wonder if I might not have been doing things wrong.
I sometimes wonder if maybe the unspoken secret to financial success is to get a lot of people to buy your books and attend your seminars.
بل نادرة.- بعض القواعد والأفكار لا تستند لأي دليل أو منطق عدا أن التجربة نجحت مع الكاتب وقد تفشل مع كثير غيره.- يسوق الكاتب كثيراً لنفسه (وهي من الأصول التي يحث عليها في كتابه).- بعض المعلومات في الكتاب لم تشرح بشكل كامل وتثير رغبات بالمعرفة وهي حقوق فكرية للكاتب (تسويق أيضاً لنفسه).- الترجمة (وربما اسلوب الكاتب نفسه) تفتقد التشويق حتى في القصص والأمثلة.تقييمي للكتاب: 3/ 5 جيد
so you’re not just learning useless facts and you are in fact learning the right things to become financially literate.A most important thing to learn from this book is that you don’t get rich working for money.
Get out of the rat race!“Most people never see the trap they are in.” — Robert T KiyosakiMost people work because they are afraid of not having money or they desire things that they think will make them happy.
If you want more money simply change your thinking” — Robert T KiyosakiTo start off with, most people need to earn a wage to get their initial funds for investing.

If one is looking for practical advices related to investing, this is not an apt book to pick up.Important takeaways :1) Be financially literate.
Have at least minimal knowledge of  a) Accounting b) Investing c) Understanding markets d) Laws - tax advantages and protection from lawsuits2) Have total financial self-reliance vs reliance on managers for investment advices.3) Buy income generating assets (stocks, bonds, mutual funds, real estate).
Also it's a self-help and not an actual investing book.
A wonderful book for anyone who wants to be an entrepreneur. Enlightening about assets and liabilities, the book provides real life examples and scenarios. A must read for the beginners.
My father handed me this book two nights ago, and said something to the effect of "interesting read--not very informative, but not bad".After reading 36 out of 195 pages, I've already gotten a grasp of the overall message (make your money work for you).
As a future purveyor of doctorate-level counseling/psychological services (fingers crossed, here), reading the dribble that pop-psychologists, self-made millionaires, and the like are allowed to put into print nauseates me.
I will admit freely that self-help books can be and are a legitimate help to many people.
عاش الكاتب تحت كنف أبوين، وكلا الأبوين ناجح في حياته ومتفوق، الا أن طريقة التفكير تختلف، فرغم أن الأ
This book is more a motivational book rather than personal finance book.
Plus, after reading the analysis of this book by John Reed, I became increasingly skeptical about it: the author is making money out of writing this kind of book instead of through managing his own finances.
You can read this book for leisure but it won't help much in managing your personal finance.
Personally i won't recommend buying this book to be used as reference or practical guide on personal finance, but if you need a little motivation and self-help guide, go ahead.
O dar paskaitę šitą knygą sužinosit, kad jei jūsų tėtis nesimaudo piniguose, tai jis lochas ir šiaip iš esmės niekam tikęs žmogus. Ties šia vieta skaitymas ir baigėsi. Šūdas, ne knyga. Jei labai neturit ką veikt, geriau jau tada paskaitykit Coelho. Arba pažiūrėkit, kaip auga žolė. Arba kaip džiūna dažai - vis naudingiau bus.
