https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1026008.Swamp_Angel
This most un-Canadian, most unwomanly of gestures stops the man in his tracks; cowed, he goes home.It stopped me in mine, too: cantankerous Mrs. Severance’s revolver spins and twirls, up and down, over and through much of this 1954 novel; what a rich, oddball symbol of female self-invention, of refusing to fit into social molds.Maggie escapes into the interior of northern British Columbia and ends up working at a fishing lodge that’s fallen on hard times owing to its owner Haldar’s physical challenges after an accident.
Here’s a passage about an extremely minor one, Vera’s brother, Surl:Mrs. Mordy did not care for Vera who resembled herself, being slight, pale, dark and thin-faced.
This story was absolutely fascinating, right to the last page, but as I finished it, I still wondered what it was really about.
I even continued to wonder how well Maggie Lloyd understood herself and her own life (but I suppose that in itself is realistic - how many of us do understand ourselves and our lives?).
I am tempted to re-read in the hope that I might catch some critical clues missed in the first reading, but on second thought, I think I need some time away from the story before I tackle it again.
But what a pleasure to discover a book that seems to demand a re-read.
So many do not warrant even one read!
By the end, the novel's resolution has a ring of justness to it that strikes me as well-earned.At about the halfway point of the book, I felt that Swamp Angel was not really better than "Tuesday and Wednesday," her novella from The Equations of Love.
Probably the main conflict of the book is Maggie trying to cope with them without bailing on this situation like she bailed on the last one.To make up with her possibly racist and certainly ignorant depiction of Yow, the Chinese-Canadian cook, in The Innocent Traveller and in "Lilly's Story," Wilson has a very positive depiction of a Chinese-Canadian family in Swamp Angel.
Something in this book really worked for me. I saw it on a display at the Library, and the word "Swamp" enticed me, then I saw it was set in Vancouver/BC and the author was born in South Africa. The tone and gentle pacing worked for me, and the author's obvious love for the land of BC. And the interactions between people, hopelessly stuck in their own behaviour patterns, but trying to be better. I don't know. I'm not explaining it well. A cetain decency conveyed, but even it cannot solve all conflicts.
A woman plans and then carries out her plan to leave her husband.
Her 2nd husband, whom she married out confusion and grief.
Her first was killed in the war, and her little daughter also died.
She took on as her second husband a cocky brash man, a selfish man, mistaking his confident extroversion for assured comptetence.
He turns out to be a self centred little mean-spirited and spiteful man.
And so the book opens with Maggie carrying out her domestic chores for the final time, then sneaking away after supper.
The tension, wondering if her husband would figure out something was up before she could escape.
I read this book some years ago and I have just finished rereading it. I think this is a wonderful novel. It has a deceptively simple plot, but needs careful attention to detail to reveal Wilson's astute observations on human relationships. I have lived in Kamloops for the past almost twenty years and Wilson's descriptions of the lakes and land in the area are great!
Beautifully constructed, intricate and real in it's characterizations. Not a book for those who like straight ahead story with predictable ends. This book was written by a woman who had lived most of her life and had a keen eye for observation. Her setting is dead-on!
Read this one for class and it was great! 4.5*
Human being meet, yet the meetings are not the same.
Meeting partakes in its very essence not only of the persons but of the place of meeting.
And that essence of place remains, and colors, faintly, the association, perhaps forever."A fine novel.
I love it when you find the perfect book at the right time in your life.
I cannot sing its praises enough so I will conclude my review with another quotation, the one that best expresses my feeling for this novel: "No one can write about perfect love because it cannot be committed to words by those who know about it."
I am so glad that Canada Reads inspired me to reread this book after a few decades. I loved this book. Wilson's description of the BC interior, and her sense of what it means to be a flyfisher are spot on, beautiful and obviously written by someone who knows both very well. In the afterword George Bowering says this book is simple & complex, like flyfishing; the idea is simple the method is complex.
Read for book club
Then flickering, weaving, they resumed their way.Maggie, turning, rowing quickly back to the lodge, had the bow of the boat pointed toward the lodge and the stern pointed toward the farther and ever receding shore of the lake, the hills.
Maggie turned again, took the oars, and rowed hard, straight in the direction of the lodge." (hide spoiler)]More beautiful descriptions, integrating nature with story and story with nature."...Here, once more, they drove past the great solitary bull pines with their strongly hatched and corrugated bark — all the delights of this country spoke afresh to Maggie — swelling hills, wild and widespread sage, look!
An engaging and beautifully written story about a woman who frees herself from the bondage of a bad marriage. Her refuge is a fishing lodge in remote BC where her experiences as a child have prepared her to shoulder the burdens of running a tourist camp. Her story is bolstered by those of the people who are and have been in her life, whose stories intertwine with hers yet create a space for her to stand strong.
Interesting characters, very strong women, Maggie and Mrs. Severance. Very strong description of British Columbia wilderness
Read for a class on British Columbian lit.Not particularly fond of this novel, I'll admit.
I liked that the other characters got their little backstories before they were even introduced into the timeline of Maggie's narrative.
I also liked that there was a fairly positive representation of Chinese-Canadians, especially when Maggie's in Chinatown and when Wilson writes about their family life.
The interactions people have or view between nature, flora and fauna are a delight to read about (in particular, the kitten and the fawn scene), and the relationships these characters develop is kind of a nice view on how human relationships really work.
I am very glad that I took the trouble to follow up on this mention of "Swamp Angel" since I found it to be a very superior novel.
One character in the novel tates that the nobody writes about the perfect life because it is a life in which nothing happens.
This cannot go on because life is not that simple and the rest of the novel is concerned with how people can approach their perfect life in a manner that is compatible with the reality of their social situation.
How can they have a perfect life and live with other people who are attempting the same thing.
This Canadian novel is getting a little aged for the typical reader – 1954 – but it’s themes of establishing self-identity, esteem and strong friendships are still relevant today.
I’m not typically a fan of reading long scenes that describe the Canadian landscape but this time I loved it.
It presents a psychological look at what some will do to become happier, stronger people while others sabotage the great things they have around them to perpetuate their belief that they don’t deserve them.
Look for Christian symbolism and ponder over what the Swamp Angel represents.
This is definitely a book I’m going to pick up again.Check out my reviews for my 2012 reads at www.oliviamainville.com
Although given the impression that Wilson was trying to convey the message that love and marriage are never as perfect or clean-cut as one thinks, she failed to give even one example of a marriage that wasn't controlled by abuse, neglect, or general negative emotions.
Although it is implied there was some strange abuse in their relationship, it is never told what this is, and Wilson also gives the idea that Maggie never even communicated with her husband that he was doing something wrong.
If that is what Wilson was trying to convey, I guess she did it well.
A pregnant peep into the heart of British Columbian ethos, truly embodying that "last frontier" quality that its geography so demands. Sometimes it felt like I was being dipped into an Emily Carr painting with Ethel Wilson's Swamp Angel, and sometimes into an E. Pauline Johnson poem. Either way, a powerful push into a new, unfamiliar world that, once immersed in it, isn't really that new or unfamiliar at all.Read on recommendation of CBC Books' 100 novels that make you proud to be Canadian.
Every time something started to happen....it fizzled out.....
and left the reader hanging.
The "Swamp Angel" title was based on an object which appeared to be irrelevant to everything that didn't happen.
The actually 'writing' itself drove me crazy.
A lot of sentences/thoughts appeared to come out of nowhere ....
thoughts were left hanging and/or incomplete and also often off topic to what was currently happening.
Perhaps it wasn't meant to be a story that has a beginning and end....it was just a series of rambling incidents that never ended.
It was like listening to someone who's stoned on pot try to tell you something that happened to them ...
This is one of my favorite books ever, and I have read it, and taught it, several times.
The mystery that surrounds the story from the beginning and which is never quite revealed – why is Maggie running away from her husband, and why is it so important for her to keep it secret?
– makes it possible to read this novel as a mystery or crime fiction.
But there is so much more to this novel - basically it asks deep questions about the human condition.

Liked this book about women trying to get on and get along.
I kept expecting the Swamp Angel to fulfill its role as Checkov's gun (view spoiler)[the surprise was, that didn't happen.
I just read too many and watch too many mystery/suspense tales.
So no, Vera didn't shoot herself or Maggie, Haldar didn't shoot Vera, Ed Vardoe didn't discover where Maggie was and come to try and kill her and no one ended up dead on purpose or by accident, nor did Angus or Joey find it and kill himself by accident.
(hide spoiler)].
I think I'd like to read this again sometime.
I look forward to hearing this novel discussed on Canada Reads as I feel that I did not take away everything there was to digest and contemplate.
I initially thought I was really going to enjoy the story of Maggie who felt compelled to leave her husband on silent feet.
As the pages went on, however, it felt like there were too many side stories bound up with Maggie's.Maggie ends up in a little fishing camp near Kamloops vigorously protecting her history and her solitude only to have it interrupted by the jealousy of the camp owner's wife, Vera.
This book was written in 1954, and I was partway through it before I realized that I had read it before, I think many years ago (before I had as much life experience as I do now...) but the point is that it is memorable writing, and even if you forget some of the details of the plot or the storyline, you won't forget the images created in your mind.
The bare bones of the story is that it is about a woman who leaves a husband to go and work at a fishing resort in British Columbia.
And swamp angel is the name of a gun.
What a skillful and entertaining writer! I haven't read anything else by Ethel Wilson yet, but one day I will re-read "Swamp Angel". It's not too distracting, but sometimes I noticed I was reading words and words and words, then come to the full stop and realize I had read a beautifully composed sentence. And her insight! I thought perhaps I have been disguising my own bad behaviour...maybe people don't notice. But Ethel Wilson notices. I found "Swamp Angel" a short and very satisfying read.
This is a beautiful piece of Canadian literature. I read some of Wilson's stories back in University in the early 80s, but missed this elegant novel. She evokes a sense of place so powerfully. (Vancouver, the road to Kamloops BC, then on further out to a fishing lodge on a small isolated lake outside Kamloops. Her characters are captivating and the action compelling. A hint of existentialism as a bonus.Further bonus will be discussing the novel with Tom and Dan.
I picked up this book as part of some research I was doing about Canada in the 1950's. Although reading it did not provide me with the information I was searching for, the story had me intrigued and the writing style had me flipping pages. I was not fully expecting such a look at a feminine heroine in that era in Canada, but I am super glad that I read it. Swamp Angel is a short and little book, but there is this feeling that something much more meaty is being revealed while reading it.
Read this for my Literature of BC course. I enjoyed reading about how the Lower Mainland and Interior were back in the old days but as for the story.......nothing really happens. All the exciting action happens at the beginning of the story. Maggie is strong, brave and stubborn...and yet chooses to stay in a place where she is being bullied by a stupid, weak, indecisive woman. Makes me mad for her.
The plot line about a woman who escapes an abusive marriage to work in a lake resort in the mountains of the Thompson River country near Kamloops, British Columbia is not all that compelling, but there are passages of startling psychological insight and some complex character developments which I liked. I also appreciated her ability to conjure forth the look and feel of both the sagebrush country of interior BC as well as the sub-alpine woods. A good read.
