https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18077903-creativity-inc
Similarly, Disney Animation has seen a resurgence under Ed's and John Lasseter's leadership, with an ever-improving slate of hits.What makes those statistics so impressive is that creativity is a legendarily fickle beast: success often leads to complacency, what-worked-before is encoded as rule and takes away the flexibility to innovate, population and budgets get blown out of proportion until the constraints that provided inspiration disappear, and as a result creative streaks tend to be frustratingly unsustainable.Ed Catmull shares the story of his early days in computer graphics and his uncertain transition into management, giving specific examples of things that worked and did not work.
This book is so disappointing.
I had hoped it would take one behind the scenes of such storytelling genius as UP and TOY STORY.
Instead, it's a bunch of platitudes which could be bullet pointed in a few pages, which indeed they are at the end.
Like, duh.
At one point, Catmull -- who, to his credit, comes across as a regular, self-deprecatory guy -- even suggests doing Zen-style meditation to contemplate the inner mysteries of management.
At this point, I felt like marching round to the back of his head and snipping off his pony tail.
People first, story second: great advice for managing a business. Interesting to hear Pixar's history told first-hand, as was Catmull's interactions with Steve Jobs. Audiobook narrator is super good!
I had two important takeaways from this book: how to build a great, lasting culture, and how to build a creative company.Catmull's philosophy both around creating movies and managing his company, is to be relentless about remembering that he doesn't know what he doesn't know.
They have lots of ways to get feedback on the film and iterate on it: from daily standup every morning to review scenes, up to braintrust meetings with all the best directors and creative minds to review the story.
I read this because I'm an artist, but I loved it because I'm a manager. Whether you're a computer science history buff, a fan of Pixar or Disney, an aspiring animator, an entrepreneur, an artist, or manager, you'll get something great out of this book. One of the best business books I've read in a long time.
Our job is to protect the new.""Managers of creative enterprises must hold lightly to goals and firmly to intentions.""The goal is to place one foot on either side of the door - one grounded in what we know, what wer are confident about, our areas of expertise, the people and processes we can count on - and the other in the unknown, where things are murky, unseen, or uncreated.""Give a good idea to a mediocre team, and they will screw it up.
Give a mediocre idea to a great team, and they will either fix it or come up with something better.
Es un libro mucho más técnico de lo que estoy acostumbrada, pero aún así sigue siendo una lectura que habría acabado en mi mesilla por placer. Ed Catmull convierte la historia de Pixar y cuanto ha aprendido al frente de la empresa sobre la creatividad y el trabajo en equipo en un relato apasionante y en ocasiones incluso poético. He aprendido y he disfrutado cada página. No se puede pedir menos de Pixar.
This book was equal parts "Management Theory Text" and "Memoirs of an Unconventional CEO" with a healthy dose of "My Business Relationship with Steve Jobs" and while that may sound a bit scattered or even dry, this work is neither.
Catmull manages to sprinkle the above seasonings into the broth in precisely the correct measurements to create an insightful and enjoyable stew.
Often mentioned in the text is his continued education, often through trial and error, about effectively managing creative people.
Whatever the case, this book was an enjoyable read and not at all a dry dusty tome.
What this book is: a managerial how-to on fostering creativity, productivity and work/ life balance in the office.What this book is not: a guidebook of creative inspiration for regular everyday DIYers who work alone.* * *The ideas are cut and dry and pretty simplistic for being, ostensibly, a manager's book on creativity.Although this book isn't a memoir, there is a very brief gloss-over on Ed Catmull's family, childhood and education.
Don't resist change; build the capability to recover when unexpected events occur.-- Failure is a necessary consequence of doing something new.-- Don't fall for the illusion that by preventing errors, you won't have errors to fix.
A wonderful and insightful story, loved everything about this book and I am definitely buying a hard back copy so I can underline some of the lessons. Ed is a great story teller and a pretty good psychologist. Many business books are straight to the point :"Take risks!" "Believe in yourself" etc., but Creative, Inc. dives even deeper into the true meaning of "leadership".
It's a mistake to think of this as a book for managing a workforce that needs to be creative, or a way to make your company more creative.
For me, it was more about that messy business of leading and managing people.
For Ed, "the unpredictable is the ground on which creativity occurs."It was really interesting reading the different mental models Pixar people used to deal with those times when everything looks the darkest, as a way to "keep fear in its place." As Ed says "The models in our heads embolden us as we whistle through the dark.
I’ve always liked Pixar, what they do and how they go about doing it, so I was pretty excited to read this book.
It contains a lot of valuable information, but I think the best thing about it is the way that it conveys this information.
The majority of the things I keep thinking about after finishing the book were actually just casually mentioned as part of an interaction.
And just BTW, Ed sounds like a nice guy to have over for a game of Exploding Kittens or something.
Ed Catmull, the president of Pixar and Disney Animation, comes across as an earnest guy trying to do the best job he can.
And as part of his earnest approach to running an animation company, he and his team came up with a number of ways to try to ensure his employees didn't lose their mojo, their creativity, their inspiration.
The creativity stories are also of interest, and Catmull earnestly shares details of company meetings, programs, and policies that were tried, as well as his personal thoughts about how things should work.
This book wasn't what I expected but it worked.
The author, co-founder of Pixar, is extremely passionate about animation and he lets you know the huge role he played in the way computer animation has changed the old way of doing things.
I found it funny that the old guys at Disney didn't even want to give computer animation and also computer editing, a courtesy nod, because they knew their craft (the old way) and didn't want to change.
I think they completely missed the boat, but with that being said, Disney now owns Pixar, so I guess it all worked out for them.
Reading this book was like sitting down and talking with a beloved father/ mentor.
I feel like I've been through such an incredible journey.
and why they are so important, from a business perspective, but also from the human perspective!I feel like I have taken away so much from this book, that I feel like I need to personally thanks the author Ed Catmull for such a moving, heartfelt and important book.
So here's to you Ed, and this incredible book - thank you!
It starts off slowly, but this book turned out to be one of the most fascinating reads. Besides the incredibly interesting process behind Pixar’s evolution and the creation of animated films, the amazing way that this company cultivated a culture of communication and creativity is inspiring. I’d love to see some of these strategies applied with education.
Stimulating. Thought provoking. Inspiring.I started reading this book on a whim this morning, and couldn't put it down. I had borrowed an e-book from the library, but I've just bought a paperback and intend to re-read when it arrives. A fuller review to come after that.
Look Heino, I finally finished the book!
Inspiring story of an amazing company. Read it!
This book was written by Ed Catmull, one of the founders and president of Pixar Animation Studios.
For instance, Catmull talks about 'The Brain Trust' a panel created to view films in progress and the purpose of the panel is to impart constructive criticism and what was liked.
Catmull talks about various directors and creative's at Pixars outlooks on creation.
Him saying that one day everything he made at Apple will end up in dumpster but the stories told by Pixar will live forever.
And by the time I finished the book and Catmull starts talking about Jobs' death I found myself getting a little teary eyed.
”Criatividade”, com o subtítulo ”Como Vencer as Forças que Bloqueiam a Inspiração” é um livro escrito por Ed Catmull em parceria com a jornalista Amy Wallace.Nos últimos vinte anos “assisti” a todos os filmes (incluindo, as curta-metragens) produzidos e realizados pela Pixar; destaco ”Toy Story” por ser o primeiro filme, com um “elenco” absolutamente inesquecível.
”Criatividade” é um livro excepcional – cada frase tem um contexto e encerra um conceito e uma ideia subjacente - que nos ensina como o processo criativo, assente numa admirável capacidade de liderança e de diálogo, com passos concretos e repetíveis, alicerçados uma abordagem inovadora, pode maximizar as qualidades intrínsecas de cada um dos intervenientes, num trabalho de uma equipa multidisciplinar e criativo.
Decades before computer animation was a thing, Catmull began developing the programming to do 2D and 3D programming.
During this time, he found himself recruited to work at Lucasfilm, becoming vice president of Industrial Light and Magic's computer graphics division until 1986 when a guy named Steve Jobs bought it up and started Pixar.
A major part of Creativity, Inc. is Catmull's anecdotes about the process of developing some of the biggest cartoons--or movies--in recent decades.
Catmull, who has an engaging and magnetic story telling ability, uses different obstacles the company ran into throughout his career to show how creativity can be unleashed.Another very interesting aspect of the story is hearing Catmull's perspective on working with Steve Jobs.
The book is presented as a “how to” on inspiring a creative culture and doing away with anything that hinders the creative process.
The meat of the book is at the very end when Catmull summarizes all of his leadership advice in one section called Starting Points.
Read the book for fun and bookmark the last chapter for the advice you’ll want to use in developing the creative culture you desire.
My first book of 2017 is done!! This was a great book to kick this year off. By the end I was getting quite emotional. (The final chapter of the book is a tribute to Steve Jobs and all he did for Pixar.) It's such a breath of fresh air to hear stories from such an amazing leader. How Ed fostered creativity and created a safe haven for honesty was truly revolutionary. I loved hearing the stories behind some of the movies. All in all, a fantastic book about what it means to lead and learn.
Esse entrará na lista dos meus livros favoritos enquanto não decido se ele é ou não o TOP 1.
Fun (if obvious) insights into the Pixar story including a few entertaining Steve Jobs cameos! Main take-aways for me were the bits on candor and the "brain trust".
Great book, helps you think HUGE !!!
* Rather than trying to prevent all errors, we should assume, as is almost always the case, that our people's intentions are good and that they want to solve problems.
On Creativity: * Braintrust meetings are sessions where directors present to a group of people the latest concept and direction of the movie in process.
That creates a problem for those who seek to give helpful feedback.
If your goal is to make it easier and simpler, then don't get in the boat." * To keep a creative culture vibrant, we must not be afraid of constant uncertainty.
إدوين كاتمول مؤلف الكتاب هو رئيس بيكسار وديزني، وواحد من مخترعي الجرافيكس أنيميشن، يعني تاريخ.
الكتاب عن رحلته مع تأسيس بيكسار وإدارة بيئة إبداعية ناجحة.
الواحد بيبقى عنده إحساس إن الدنيا ماشية حلاوة مع الناس دول بس الموضوع مش كده نهائي، هم بس منظمين شوية وبيعرفوا يتناقشوا مع بعض للوصول لحلول.
مشكلتي الوحيدة مع الكتاب هو الرغي الرهيب.
باقرا فيه بقالي سنة ونص كل شوية أسيبه وأرجع له، الكتاب فعلاً ممل بعض الشئ وكان ممكن يكون أقصر الثلث على الأقل والإسهاب رهيب والحكايات بتصل أحياناً لمستوى "أصل سيدي خد ستّي وراحوا السيما".
الفصل الأخير فيه خلاصة الكتاب لو حد عاوز ينجز.

