https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/201114.Sold
Devastating.
Beautifully-written with much heartache for these young girls who are sold into prostitution by their families.
Sometimes they are sold because of extreme poverty and all money must be spent on the Males of the family.
But sometimes, as in the book, they are sold just because the Male wants a new winter coat and a girl is just money wasted in feeding her when she could be sold for cash and no expenses in the future.
Eventually the heroine, if she can be called that, does escape to an American mission.
In order to compensate for the family's crippling loss, Lakshmi's stepfather - who likens little girls to goats, "Good as long as she gives you milk and butter..but not worth crying over when it's time to make stew" - decides to sell Lakshmi away to a Calcutta brothel for the paltry sum of four hundred dollars.Early in the novel, Lakshmi's Ama gives her this warning: "it is a woman's fate to suffer (and) simply to endure is to triumph." Told through a series of spare, free-verse vignettes, Lakshim's story is devastating, and yet somehow she endures, which - considering the myriad horrors she experiences - is most definitely a triumph.Before writing Sold, Patricia McCormick traveled to Nepal and India, interviewing both the families who sell their children (some intentionally, some because they were tricked by unscrupulous traffickers) and the children who have been sold into the trade.
Young Adult book ....
We are taken into a dark underworld — it’s clear many victims were made to endure horrific acts.
Lakshmi is a young Nepalese girl.
Lakshmi tells the story....( with a sweet softness that breaks our hearts).
But a girl is like a goat.
*By focusing on one single girl made this story very personal....
she spent a great deal of time in India researching true stories.
but this small book was taken from true facts - from real people’s lives.
1. This book conveys less about the triumph of the human spirit and more about how Americans fix everything.
In tone it read exactly like an early missionary novel.2.
I wish people would only write novels in verse if the verse actually served some purpose in the plot or the development of the character, or if the verse was good.
In Sold it's simply a weird affectation.
A book about that would be fascinating.
A topic this horrifying deserved a better book.
It feels wrong to get to know so intimately someone’s greatest pain and at the same time to stay passive, to not be able to even say to those you are reading or hearing about “I’m sorry.
Would I suddenly find an unsuspected, latent strength in myself, would I transform into a brave, courageous woman, would I in the end be stronger for it, would it make me see my life and myself differently or I would I get out of it broken and unrecognizable, barely resembling human, dead on the inside, defeated and hurt beyond repair?
Wow
another book i'm not sure gains a lot by being written in verse, unless it is just to slow the pacing down to better appreciate the horror. the beginning pre-sale parts were very beautifully descriptive, and then after that become very unbeautifully descriptive. it's a rough subject matter that doesn't get disney-fied... until the end.
Lakshmi is a thirteen year old girl who lives with her family in Nepal.
She wants to help her family out financially by working as a maid in the city but she is sold into a life of prostitution by her stepfather.
This is a fictional story but is based on interviews the author conducted with aid workers and survivors themselves.This is a tough book to read but I highly recommend giving it a chance if you think you can handle the subject matter.
Lakshmi might be a fictional character but she is the voice of countless victims and this is a book well worth reading.
Written in free verse from the perspective of a 13 year old Nepalese girl, who was sold from her mountain home to earn a living as a maid in the big city.
But then when the author mentions the fact that the girls watched The Bold and the Beautiful on tv every day, and the American who came to the brothel brought a digital camera, you realize that the time frame for the story is present day.
The Author's Note at the end really brought to light the very real and current problem of sex trafficking in the world today.
I don't enjoy writing long reviews.
I did really enjoy this book.
I was reading it the night after a long flight from the US to the UK, and I thought, "I'll read some before I go to bed." I got to the halfway mark and thought, "Well, what's the harm in reading some more?"And then it was over.
The protagonist is incredibly easy to admire.The ending left me yearning for more, which is just fine by me.
The fact that I was left wanting inspires me to get involved more and have a more immediate involvement with the stories out there like this.
While this is a quick read, it does pack quite a bit of punch. This book opens your eyes to what's going on in the world. I think everyone needs to take some time to read this one.
Plot: 4.5 starsCharacters: 4 starsWriting: 4 starsEnding: 3.5 starsOverall: 4 stars
“Simply to endure is to triumph.” This book was ROUGH. I read it in one sitting but I'm not sure if I should have or not because it was a lot to take in. Amazing book though. There are obviously some pretty heavy triggers in this book: child sex-trafficking, and graphic sexual and physical abuse (involving children and women). I knew going into this one that it wasn't going to be a pleasant read. It almost feels wrong to say that I liked the book. It was brutal, it was uncomfortable and worst
I was familiar with the topic as I've read a lot of non-fiction books on the topic and studied it a little in University.
This is a YA book and I think it would be fine for a teenager to read, since it will give them a sense of what is going on around the world to so many children.
This is a five star for me but I wouldn't read it again because I don't think I could bare to go on this journey with the little girl in this story again.
"Each year, nearly 12,000 Nepali girls are sold by their families, intentionally or unwittingly, into a life of sexual slavery in the brothels of India." This author traveled to Nepal and Calcutta for her research, interviewing aid workers and girls who have been rescued from the red-light districts of Calcutta.The book follows the path of Lakshmi, a thirteen-year-old Nepali girl, as she is sold and makes the journey to India, thinking she is going to be a maid for a rich woman.
I'd like to see the author do more with her research, considering all the travel and interviewing she did.
To be transparent - this is a text I'm thinking of taking on in my World Literature class this upcoming school year - so I started googling and researching this morning to try to work through the white savior mentality there at the end and figure out what the heck that was and where it came from.
I think that asking questions around author's purpose, sharing McCormick's rationale, and then leaving the question of whether or not this decision sits well with us or if it undermines the idea that oppressed groups can and should be empowered to take on their own problems will probably be my approach.
I am thirteen years old.Sold is the story of Lakshmi, a girl from a small village living with her Ama, baby brother and stepfather.
She has been sold into prostitution.This story was hard to read.
But a girl is like a goat.
But not worth crying over when it's time to make a stew.The chapters are short and to the point, but deal with a heavy topic.
I felt the short chapters broke it up into manageable chunks and made this a fast read, but one I won't soon forget."Why must women suffer so?""This has always been our fate.
I know that this book is young adult and fiction, but it crawled up my skin as I read about a girl who had hope for more but received nothing but pain and suffering.
It is a dog eat dog world and she was handed over to be eaten alive.
She is from a village where men walk on water and the women fill their buckets up constantly to make sure the river men walk on stays full.
At 13, a young girl suffered mentally and physically.
“There is a bucket of water next to my bed.
Sejak pertama kali melihat buku ini di toko buku, I know I'm gonna love this book.Berkisan tentang Laksmi, gadis kecil dari Nepal berusia 13 tahun yang dijual oleh ayah tirinya sendiri ke rumah bordil.
keluguan, kenaifan seorang anak kecil terpampang dengan jelas di buku ini, karena kisah ini dikisahkan dari sudut pandang si Laksmi sendiri.Buku setebal 310 halaman saya selesaikan dengan semalam karena ternyata isinya cukup ringan dan gaya penulisan yang beda dari novel biasanya.
Ketika tiba di rumah bordil, tiba waktunya Laksmi berpisah dengan paman suami, nah bagian-bagian ini membuat saya merinding.
No, sometimes it can touch on problems like sex trafficking and involve a female character’s near constant abuse, as seen in the story of Lakshmi in Patricia McCormick’s Sold.Now who dares read about the sexual, physical, and psychological abuse of so many female characters and has the gall to call it a feminist work?
The novel was written in a way that makes it seem genuine, with Lakshmi as the narrator.
Furthermore, it is most definitely a feminist piece of literature as it was written for the purpose of finding justice for these women and girls.
This book ended with Lakshmi, the main character, leaving the happiness home.
The happiness home is the "trap house" for girls that are forced into the sex slave industry.
This is one of my favorite books because it focuses on one specific character, the life she has, the challenges she has to endure, and what she does to overcome them.I think that this book is good for almost any type of reader.
This book includes action, adventure, and a deep sense of reality.
This book will keep any reader on their toes, as well as keep them inferencing on certain plots.
A devastating book about a 13 year old Nepali girl sold as a sex slave in India. This difficult subject was brought to light in a quick, easy-to-listen-to format. It is not a story I will easily forget.Source: I borrowed a copy of this audio book from my local library.
Haunting and devastating.
This book is realistic fiction for Young Adults.
It was a sad little story about a girl from Nepal, who gets sold to a woman visiting their poor village.
This young girl thinks she is going to be a maid in the big city.
Personally, I would have liked more detail in the emotion, the setting, the people, but as this was a Young Adult book, I found this age appropriate.
What I loved was how this girl had to come to terms with her new life and what a struggle that was for her within.
So 4 stars.
Harrowing.
A very inspirational story of a young and naïve Nepali girl, Laxmi, sold into sexual slavery in India by her step-father.
I loved how real it was.
It wasn't just romance and drama many books portray nowadays, it actually told a horrible but true story.I loved the contrast between the beautiful voice telling such a horrendous tale.
There were many times I was saddened by the beauty of her words, her loss, and the end, that bit of dialogue, had me in tears.
This book cannot be easily forgotten because its real and true for way too many women and girls who has endured this terrible experience.
This was such a good book.
While reading I just felt to angry like how can one be so vile and sell a child of to a sex trade.
A Laskshimis time in "the happy house" had very dark moments but the author put in little cute moments of her interactions with one of the other girls kids.
The whole time I was cheering on be half of Lakshimi to run away or make a escape plan.
Over all, this book is recomended to everyone.
I would say its one of my top 5 books that I have ever read.
A heart-wrenching tale of freedom and its absence.
Sometimes it would be difficult to turn the pages, because I feared what horrors lay in store for Lakshmi.
After reading the tale of this one girl having to face such abominable cruelty, I shuddered at the thought of how many such Lakshmis are suffering the same horrors, having been sold into slavery across the border by their own countrymen or family.
It's just brutal.I think this is such a strong tale not only because of what the girls face, but also because McCormick has the ability to express it in such wonderful writing.
This book is one I am mentally saving for my mother/daughter book club. My daughter is four, so I have some time...but it raises interesting topics, themes, and questions, like:1. Sex, sex-trafficking, rape and victimization of women (no surprise there)2. Self-respect3. the legalization/decriminalization of prostitution/sex-work issue4. globalization with all its dimples and wartsThe book written in a poetic form, but I didn't find it distracting. In fact, I think it managed to create a framework of modesty that balanced the obscenity of the subject matter.
I read through this very fast. What a poignant story. My heart was broken with all Lakshmi went through. I know this is a work of fiction, but this crap still happens to this day. We even have this stuff happening here in Canada in a city close to us. This stuff should not still be happening. It is horrid and disgusting.
