https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11468377-thinking-fast-and-slow
The first was Daniel Dennett's "Darwin's Dangerous Idea" and the second is Kahneman's "Thinking, Fast and Slow." What caused this?
("Cuckoo!") Good writing about complex topics is very, very difficult, and Kahneman has corraled 30+ years of science, his career and all he has learned into a perfectly arranged sequence that leads the reader into a wilderness...
In the context of broader discussions of free will, intention, choice and control over the directions our lives take, this book can provide powerful insights that might currently be obscured by these "cognitive illusions" and the inherent limitations of "System 1/System 2" thinking.
This book will rearrange the way you think...
We don't understand statistics, and if we did, we'd be more cautious in our judgments, and less prone to think highly of our own skill at judging probabilities and outcomes.
But if you're like me and you prefer authors to cut to the chase, make their point, and then leave you with a whopping big appendix if you're interested in the regression analysis of how many freshmen would watch a guy choke to death because they think someone else will come to the rescue, then this book is not for you.If you want to take the Reader's Digest pass through the book, then Chapter 1 and Section 3 are probably the most accessible and can be read in less than an hour, and still leave you with a fair understanding of the author's thesis.
I was thinking that perhaps the best way to explain those other books would be to compare them to Monty Python.
Hundreds of people have already told all this guy's best stories in their own books - but all the same it is a pleasure to hear them again by the guy that first said, 'this parrot is dead' or rather, 'framing effects make fools of us all'.You need to read this book - but what is particularly good about it is that you come away from it knowing we really are remarkably easy to fool.
Daniel Kahneman spins an interesting tale of human psychology and the way our brains interpret and act on data.
(Now, yes, it’s social science, but I won’t get into that particular snobbery today.)The other thing I liked about Thinking, Fast and Slow is its failure to mention evolutionary psychology.
I’m a mathematician and I don’t get numbers—but at least I’m not the only one.So Thinking, Fast and Slow is genuinely interesting.
Whereas Lehrer’s focus is on the neurology behind decision-making, Kahneman is more interested in the psychology.
If your objective, like it is when one finishes reading a self-help book, is to implement what Mr. Kahneman has to say in real life and benefit from it, I should warn you, you will be sorely disappointed.
Believe it or not, in my opinion, I believe Mr. Kahneman is telling you exactly that in this book - that whether you like it or not, your entire life is guided or may I say decided by two fundamental ideas and that there is very little you can do to change it, period.
Read it, totally worth it in my opinion.
He's convinced me that the human mind doesn't understand non-events.
He has given me reason to believe that in low validity environments, it's better to use formula's than to listen to expert human judgment.
System 1 is prone to cognitive biases described above, but it's also where morality comes from.
In later chapters of the book, he describes another variation of duality in the human mind.
Thinking, Fast and Slow is just okay.
It's being marketed as a book on psychology (and economic psychology, in particular) for the layperson.
I'm not sure if other laypeople agree, but this wasn't really for me.
And it's not that the prose is too technical (okay, sometimes it is) but rather that Kahneman is stuck somewhere between academic technicalities and clear expressive prose.
Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
and the Eight Other Business Delusions That Deceive Managers(which puts some of these cogitative delusions in a business context, it has an excellent anecdote about the failure of a Lego product), or something along those lines you'll be familiar with some of the ideas here.By now I'm quite comfortable accepting that I am not rational and that other people aren't either and that statistical thinking is alien to probably to almost everybody and Kahneman's book happily confirms my opinion.
Still I wonder if returning to work the instructors developed an enlightened instruction method or if they rapidly regressed to the mean and shouted and swore again.I used to think that politicians answered a different question to the one given by the interviewer in an attempt to be evasive.
---------------------------------------------------------------I have attempted to summarize some heuristics, biases and psychological principle that I thought would make a fascinating introduction to tempt a novice like me to further explore the subject.
In everyday life, we use this to avoid making decisions and expressions based on factual background and therefore make an impulsive and sometimes irrational comment to a difficult question.What you see is there is: We take pride in our intuitive abilities which leads us to believe that we know the whole truth, no matter how fallible our sources are, and not withstanding the fact that there is always another side of the picture.
Whew!
Wrestled this one down to the ground.
And that being the case, the book outlines what we need to know so as not to mess up decisions like we have been doing--like we all do.
Or if you are really into the science and scholarship, there are footnotes in the back--stealth footnotes without the little numbers on the book's pages, so as not to intimidate the general audience.
All based on science.
You can't go over it, you can't go under it, so go through it--with this book.
If we all used our brains just a little more, what couldn't we accomplish!
Kahneman explains how two "systems" in the mind make decisions.
Our decisions are strongly colored by how we frame questions in our minds.
Elements of causality and Bayesian probability are described in some detail.One of the most interesting aspects of the ways we think, is the concept of availability.
In other words, a short, very unpleasant experience is remembered as being much worse than an very long duration, unpleasant experience.Some of the explanations of our ways of thinking may seem basic and obvious if you have read other psychology books.
Very well written, and understandable to the non-specialist, I highly recommend this book to anybody interested in psychology.
Dyson was a particularly apt pick because Kahneman helped design the Israeli military screening and training systems back when the country was young, and Dyson at 20 years old cranked statistics for the British Bombing Command in its youth.
Dyson was part of a small group that figured out the bombers were wrong about what mattered to surviving night time raids over Germany; a thing only about a quarter of the crews did over a tour.
(264) before making a decision, assign someone to imagine it’s a year into the future and the plan was a disaster.
It's a fascinating study of the mind, how people make decisions, and how the decision-making process can be improved.
My issue with this book, which is one I've tossed aside after 60 pages, is not so much that it's poorly done or that it's hard to understand - in fact, the exact opposite is true.The issue is that this book is simply more in depth about psychology and psychological processes than I truly have a short-term interest in.
This is more the type of book you keep near your desk or bedside, read a 12 page chapter or so, and digest.
This may be a book I need to own and do that with as opposed to tear through it after borrowing it from the library and then hating myself as a slog through it.
Kahneman has a great talent at being a slow, rational, logical, and reflective thinker.
However, fast thanking, intuitive thinking, is more influential in what experience tells us he says---being contrary to the belief that we are very rational-decision making people.
1) Two basic systems of thinking:  System 1 is the intuitive, quick, thinking System 2 is the slowest rational logical and reflective thinking .....20% of our Energy goes into our brain.
( lazy controller he calls it), and do not involve our slow thinking brain and less it is needed.
( again providing we have influential, lazy judging brains) .......
1- دانیل کانمن در این کتاب به خطاهایی میپردازد که ما انسانها به دلیل کارکرد فعال سیستم 1 و تنبلی سیستم 2 انجام میدهیم. خطاهایی که حتی ما انسانها بعضیها را به عنوان خطا نمیشناسیم، باور داریم و البته به طور روزمره با آنها مواجهیم. از نظر کانمن راه جلوگیری از خطاهایی که از سیستم 1 سرچشمه میگیرند، در کل ساده است. نشانههایی که حاکی از میدان مین ذهنی است شناسایی کنید، آرام شوید و بکوشید از سیستم 2 کمک بگیرید. متأسفانه این فرایند عاقلانه در اوقاتی که به آن نیاز است، بسیار کم مورد استفاده قرار میگیرد. ه
یکی از ویژگیهای خوب کتاب این است که در انتهای هر فصل در چند جمله‌ی کوتاه، مثالهایی درباره موضوع بحث ذکر می‌شود که برای درک بهتر مطالب و مرور مجدد مفاهیم در آینده بسیار کمک می‌کند.3- متاسفانه ترجمه خانم تالوصمدی خوب نیست و بعضی جاها کلافه می‌کند؛ اشتباههای املایی و حتی محتوایی هم دیده می‌شود که شاید به خاطر سبک نگارش سخت کتاب توسط کانمن باشد.
افراد بدون اینکه از آن آگاه باشند و حتی هنگام آگاه بودن، پیوسته این کار را انجام می‌دهند.» همانطور که انتظار داریم جان مطالب کتاب در فصل «نتیجه‌گیریها» آورده شده است.
There are also some basic principles, such as heuristics ('shortcuts' of thinking, and biases.
Yet this bald litany of basic facts does not describe the whole contents of the book.
The real meat of the book comes over the next 20 or so chapters, and details many real social and economic applications, with many helpful examples and citations, drawn from respected and well-tested sources.
This resourceful and detailed compilation of our best and worst behaviors in decision making is a fine book, and worth reading to those who are fascinated with our behaviors.
Excellent book that should be of interest to those interested in Julian Jaynes's ideas on consciousness. This book could probably have been titled Thinking Non-Consciously and Consciously.
Interesting book about how the mind works, errors in judgement and memory and what to do to not fall prey to our minds` shortcuts (literally).Take home messages: Quick thinking and multitasking increases error rate. For the mind to comprehend something; it must be relative. Focusing on what we want is very important. What we assume as making a logical decision may just be misjudgment under influence. Very entertaining book and teaches one a lot about oneself`s own mind.
Interesting book about how the mind works, errors in judgement and memory and what to do to not fall prey to our minds` shortcuts (literally).Take home messages: Quick thinking and multitasking increases error rate. For the mind to comprehend something; it must be relative. Focusing on what we want is very important. What we assume as making a logical decision may just be misjudgment under influence. Very entertaining book and teaches one a lot about oneself`s own mind.
Mr. Kahneman, a Nobel Prize winner, explores the general subject of how and why we frequently make irrational decisions.
Mr. Kahneman has spent much of his life researching the subject, and since the book includes both his research and that of others, it must stand as the definitive compendium on the subject.
His credentials are indisputable, and he tries gamely to bring the subject to life, but -- mea culpa -- I just couldn't stay interested in the myriad of data and specific examples.
The book is good for someone really interested in the details, and it does contain real life examples, but after 400 pages it's hard to remember them.
I've been working on this book since September or August (4-6 months) and just could not take reading it for more than a few minutes at a time.
I have heard of the majority of the research (or at least their conclusions) as well, so while I thought it offered excellent insight and useful material for a lot of people to learn, I didn't think this collection of it--more of a history of the field than an introduction--added anything novel or unique for one already well-versed in the material.
Recommendation: read the introduction and the conclusion (and perhaps the major section intros), cherry-pick anything else of interest.
Kahneman has a great talent at being a slow, rational, logical, and reflective thinker.
However, Our author says we have two ways of thinking: (OK?/!).....1) Two basic systems of thinking:  System 1 is the intuitive, quick, thinking System 2 is the slowest rational logical and reflective thinking .....20% of our Energy goes into our brain.
( lazy controller he calls it), and do not involve our slow thinking brain and less it is needed.
( again providing we have influential, lazy judging brains) .......
but it's a book about THE WAY WE THINK...
I adopt terms originally proposed by the psychologists Keith Stanovich and Richard West, and will refer to two systems in the mind, System 1 and System 2.System 1 operates automatically and quickly, with little or no effort and no sense of voluntary control.System 2 allocates attention to the effortful mental activities that demand it, including complex computations.
The operations of System 2 are often associated with the subjective experience of agency, choice, and concentration.The labels of System 1 and System 2 are widely used in psychology, but I go further than most in this book, which you can read as a psychodrama with two characters.Surely you chess and bridge players are already sitting up and paying attention.
A long book that requires real mental exertion, Thinking, Fast and Slow is a worthwhile read by Nobel laureate Daniel Kahneman.
He analyzes how humans use (and sometimes fail to use) both systems, and the resulting implications on topics ranging from how we perceive happiness to behavioral economics.Thinking, Fast and Slow is one of the most in-depth Psychology books I've read.
The sheer amount of statistics and experiments referenced throughout the book proved Kahneman's thoroughness and dedication.I recommend Thinking, Fast and Slow to anyone who wants to learn about how we think, or about psychology in general.
“I giudici più esperti del tribunale della libertà vigilata israeliano sono fortemente influenzati dal proprio appetito nel momento in cui prendono la decisione se dare la libertà o no a un condannato.
Per quanto la cosa appaia crudele e assurda, la statistica dice che i giudici concedono la libertà vigilata in percentuali molto più basse lontano dai pasti, rispetto a quando hanno lo stomaco pieno.”Secondo Kahneman, premio Nobel per l’economia nel 2002, il pensiero umano funziona in base a due processi decisionali: uno, veloce e immediato, è inconsapevole, intuitivo e costa poca fatica.
اگر یک شاه کلید برای خوشحالی وجود داشته باشه همینه:Attention is key. Our emotional state is largely determined by what we attend to, and we are normally focused on our current activity and immediate environment. There are exceptions, where the quality of subjective experience is dominated by recurrent thoughts rather than by the events of the moment. When happily in love, we may feel joy even when caught in traffic.البته کتاب در مورد خوشحالی نیست و فقط یک بخش کوچیکی ازون به این موضوع اختصاص داده شده. کتاب فوق العاده ای بود، امید وارم بتونم یک ریویو برا بنویسم :|
Definitivamente o melhor livro sobre comportamento, cérebro e economia. Uma revisão ótima do tema por um dos pesquisadores que fundou e desenvolveu a área, que toma o cuidado de citar vários outros trabalhos e livros a cada capítulo, o que só enriquece.
Γενικά, είμαι επιφυλακτικός με τα βραβευμένα κείμενα και ιδιαίτερα με τα βραβευμένα με Νόμπελ, αλλά αυτό που με ανησυχούσε ιδιαίτερα ήταν το να μην μπλέξω μ’ ένα κείμενο, του οποίου η γλώσσα και η ορολογία, απευθύνεται σε επαγγελματίες ή προϋποθέτει εξειδικευμένες γνώσεις, καθώς οι δικές μου γνώσεις πάνω στην ψυχολογία είναι πολύ περιορισμένες .Το βιβλίο σκέψη αργή και γρήγορη δεν είναι αυτό-βοήθημα , είναι η πραγματική ζωή.
Απευθύνεται σε κάθε φιλομαθές άτομο, που θέλει να ενημερωθεί για το ανθρώπινο μυαλό, την ψυχολογία και τον τρόπο λήψης αποφάσεων σε κάθε έκφανση της ζωής του (οικονομική, συναισθηματική, πολιτική κλπ).
In "Thinking, fast and slow" the Nobel laureate Danny Kahneman summarizes his life long work mostly done with his collegue (and Nobel corecipient) Amos Tversky in the field of cognitive psychology and decision making.There has been an outcrop of books on this topic in the recent years (Ariely and Lehrer being the bigger names) and there is a significant overlap with similar books.
This is the original reference, the user manual for your brain.The scope of the book is large but Kahneman tries to make the topics more accessible by anthropomorphising the two cognitive "systems" in interplay in human decision making (though giving them the non descript names "1" and "2").
I haven't felt so stimulated to re-think my thinking ever since I encountered Edward de Bono's books a dozen years ago.
A text like this is especially instructive when you consider yourself an "outside-the-norm" person; it comes and beats you with a vengeance, time and again, as you try the mental problems inside for yourself--and fail and fail and fail.
The book is unusually compact and concrete.Definitely worth our time.
