https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/102733.One_Past_Midnight
Αν ήταν στο χέρι μου, οι μετακινήσεις θα πραγματοποιούνταν ακόμα με γαϊδουράκια και θα έκανα τα πάντα να σαμποτάρω την εφεύρεση του τροχού.Το βιβλίο λοιπόν ξύπνησε τους χειρότερους εφιάλτες μου, δεν φτάνει που εξαφανίστηκαν ως δια μαγείας οι περισσότεροι επιβάτες της πτήσης, δεν φτάνει που εξαφανίστηκε και ο πιλότος ανάμεσα σε αυτούς (νταξ), αλλά δημιουργήθηκε και μια ρωγμή στο χρόνο που έχει φέρει τα πάνω κάτω στον κόσμο όπως τον γνωρίζουμε γενικότερα.
Όλων των ειδών, ο νταής, ο κρυψίνους, ο από μηχανής θεός, ο αδιάφορος , η << i see dead people>>, ο ουδεμία σχέση έχω με την υπόθεση και φυσικά ο μαλάκας της παρέας.
Απρόβλεπτη, από την πρώτη μέχρι την τελευταία σελίδα δεν γνωρίζεις τι και πως.
Όσον αφορά το παρελθόν το μόνο που αλλάζει είναι το αν μπορείς ή όχι να αλλάξεις την ιστορία και αν ότι κάνεις σε ένα ταξίδι σου θα έχει επίπτωση στο παρόν.
Δημιουύργησε μια σχισμή στο χρόνο, πέρασε τους ήρωες του απο εκει και ιδού!
Έχουν βρεθεί σε μια νεκρή παγωμένη στιγμή στο παρελθόν, που τα πάντα έχουν παλιώσει κ τίποτα δεν λειτουργεί, ούτε ο αέρας, ούτε καν ο ήχος δεν ταξιδεύει!
Μια νεκρή παγωμένη στιγμή που περιμένει να γίνει απλώς το… «τίποτα».
Τι σημασία έχει να περιγράψω το ύφος ή την αφήγηση ή τους χαρακτήρες; (Αν κ όλα ήταν μια χαρά.
The first time you read it there is so much mystery, tension, what the bleep mindfuck going on that it literally keeps you on the edge of your seat.
As with The Long Walk, there are rewards every single time I read this story.
He has created a locked room mystery -- a puzzle -- with a very real and logical solution, but I bet you five dollars he'll keep you guessing to the very end!!This story is such kick-ass, high-octane energy you will fly through the pages and come out the end grinning like a monkey.
Δεν φοβάμαι τα αεροπλάνα, αντιθέτως μου αρέσει πολύ να ταξιδεύω με αυτά.
Και σε αυτό το βιβλίο φαίνεται μάλλον γιατί τα φοβάται.Είναι ένα βιβλίο θρίλερ επιστημονικής φαντασίας, που αυτοί που φοβούνται ήδη τα αεροπλάνα θα δικαιωθούν.
Αναφέρεται σε μια συγκεκριμένη πτήση την 29 που ταξιδεύει από το Λος Άντζελες για Βοστώνη και στην πορεία του συμβαίνουν απίστευτα πράγματα.
Τα πιο απίστευτα όμως συμβαίνουν αφού προσγειωθούν, οι εναπομείναντες επιβάτες, σε έναν έρημο κόσμο και έρχονται αντιμέτωποι με τους Λανγκολιέρους.
Τι είναι οι Λανγκολιέροι και που θα φτάσουν κι αν φτάσουν στον προορισμό τους οι επιβάτες, θα το ανακαλύψετε αφού το διαβάσετε.
Περιττό βέβαια να σας πω ότι μου άρεσε πάρα πολύ.
Kada razmišljam o tome da li se plagijatori susreću sa osećajem krivice i moralnim sukobom unutar sebe, nadam se da to izgleda upravo ovako kako to doživljava Mort.
Morta zatičemo u kući, osamljenog, a na vrata mu zvoni nepoznati čovek, tvrdeći da je Mort ukrao njegovu priču.
Mort momentalno odbacuje takav scenario, ali neznanac je uporan, dok Morta kopkaju nedoumice - ko je taj čovek koji mu je doneo identičnu priču kao njegovu i kako dokazati da priču nije plagirao?
Vrlo brzo shvata da neznanac, John Shooter, zapravo zna mnogo više o njemu nego što je Mort mogao da pretpostavi.Obrti su zapravo odlični iako se rasplet mogao nazreti negde od sredine.
The Langoliers tear through this story of gradual bewilderment so swiftly that you barely have time to ask yourself the million dollar question: how does Stephen King do it ?
Even in short story format, he can stretch a one-trick pony.
On-screen would take up two seconds to reveal itself to the audience; how can he kill so much time with dialogue and mood-building so as to keep us flipping the pages ?
Unlike a slasher movie, Stephen King only needs one kill.
We only need one read.
It's the inherent weakness of the formula: you cannot go back to the big surprise.
Έχουν απομείνει μόνο 11 άτομα, που θα πρέπει όχι μόνο να αντιμετωπίσουν την περίεργη αυτή κατάσταση, όχι μόνο το γεγονός πως βρίσκονται μέσα σε ένα αεροπλάνο που φαίνεται να οδηγείται στο πουθενά, αλλά και τις μεταξύ τους εντάσεις.
Όπως συμβαίνει στα περισσότερα βιβλία του King, υπάρχει μια πληθώρα χαρακτήρων: τύποι φυσιολογικοί, ψύχραιμοι, ικανοί να αντιμετωπίσουν παράλογες καταστάσεις, τύποι με κρυμμένα μυστικά και σκοτεινές αναμνήσεις, τύποι με ελπίδες που δεν τολμούν να αποκαλύψουν ούτε στους εαυτούς τους, με αρκετές δόσεις τρέλας ή απελπισίας, τύποι επικίνδυνοι για τους άλλους..
:P ) Το διάβασα μέσα σε μία μέρα,με καθήλωσε και το θεωρώ ένα από τα πολύ καλά έργα του King.
Loved this -- very much in line with King's stuff from the '80s. Not everything was explained with the "time rip" and other fantasy time travelling elements of the narrative, but the story had a nice satisfying ending because the characters are so well written and the action is well paced. Eager to see what comes next in "Four Past Midnight."
So, with fall happening, this seemed like a perfect time to revisit a story I've loved for 20 years, but haven't read for a second time.
The first third is still sufficiently creepy, with Stevie Boy adequately expressing the dread that comes with waking up on a plane to nowhere and finding most of your fellow passengers vaporized.
The problem, and this is a factor in damn near every King story I've read over the last 15 years, is that EVENTUALLY, shit has to make some sense.
Explanation isn't one of Uncle Stevie's strengths.
Which, obviously, happened because STEPHEN KING.
Hey, this is one of those Stephen King books that I could just read over and over, and hey, I haven't said anything about the movie as yet, I've actually seen it about 5 times. Imagine that a guy who's entire life is built on a fear of an imaginary thing!!
Very well written. Has mystery wrapped up in elements of Horror and Even a little romance.
This was a gripping roller-coaster of emotions and actions!I couldn't put the book down, I really need to find out what would happen to the characters.
I think I felt almost as unsettled as the characters in this tale full of the unkown with twists and turns.
From alternate dimensions, government conspirisies, time travel and childhood nightmares this book is filled with a mystery to solve as to what happened to the rest of the world and can these few survivors ever live a normal life again.
I loved the characters.
One had too small a role to get any feel for.
I don't even think he got a name in the book.
But even the crazies I like.
They are well created characters.
Opšta panika među šačicom preostalih putnika nastaje onda kada shvataju da su i pilot i kopilot nestali, ali je sreća u nesreći da je Brajan tu.
Međutim, Krejg je jedini koji zna za Langolijere.Nakon odličnog starta i prve velike napetosti u radnji, moje interesovanje je pomalo popustilo.
(hide spoiler)] Iako se nakon prve velike napetosti radnja razvija prilično očekivano, ono što je posebno dobro jeste dinamika među likovima i način na koji se radnja razvija, čineći je brzom i dovoljno nafilovanom tenzijom da želimo da saznamo epilog.
καποιοι συγγραφεις το χουν...πολυ ομως...παιρνουν μια μικρη ιστορια την τραβανε απο τα μαλλια και σε κανουν να περνας καλα...πολυ καλα...ο κινγκ ειναι ο μεγαλυτερος μαστορας στο να σε κανει να περνας καλα στα βιβλια του αν και μερικες φορες ειναι πολυλογας.το συγκεκριμενο ειναι κλασικο κινγκ με ολη τη μαστορια της αψογης αφηγησης, της πολυ εξυπνης σκιαγραφησης χαρακτηρων αλλα και της απολυτα ελεγχομενης αγωνιας που σου προκαλει...μου αρεσε πολυ
Rezi: folgt
One of the best Stephen King stories I've ever read. Totally riveting! Also listened to it while flying... not sure I can say that's recommended for everyone. But I loved it!
but that's not exactly a good thing.For example, I believed the overly gimmicky, happy-go-lucky, freeze-frame ending from the TV Mini-Series was a choice made by the director to give the rather morbid story a typical Hollywood ending, where everything is wrapped up nicely, and all of the characters get to go forth into this big, wide world with a renewed, reinvigorated perspective.
Without the shitty freeze-frame of course, but it's still just as terrible, and it left a foul taste in my mouth.Wouldn't it have been a better ending if they come back through the time-rip, finding themselves in the future, and wait eagerly for the present to catch up to them ....
With their existence, Langoliers outlined many of zigzag lines full of nothing, straight across my mind, that would under normal circumstances say some exotic words about this phenomenal Kings's creation.
Great, just as good as short stories can get.
Over 200 pages, yes i think it just about counts as a novel.Great inventive and suspenseful storyline, amazing characters.
I couldnt stop thinking about this story.
I even watched the mini series on youtube whilst reading it.
Well not at the same time, but you get me, like i read 50 pages, then watched it up to that point.
One of my fave KING stories and looking forward to reading the other short stories in "four past midnight"...
So im'a watch it at the same time as reading it like i did with this one.Great, amazing, read it!
The Langoliers is a good story.
I loved the Idea of the time rip being mistaken for the Aurora Borealis.
The Langoliers had a lot of good ideas and developed them nicely, keeping the more outlandish ones within the realm of possibility.
The plot was smooth (not any jerky transitions) and was very fun to read.
It's one of those books you can't stop reading, it hooks you and doesn't let go.
There was also less profanity that most of Stephen Kings books.
I would reccomend this heartily to any stephen king fan, fans of Science fiction, and anyone who wants to have a smart, fun read.
This is more of a science fiction/thriller than horror. I enjoyed the ensemble cast, particularly the enigmatic Nick. This story does keep you wondering how things will be resolved. I thought the miniseries was pretty true to the story as well. Really liked the actor they chose to play Nick. He nailed him. I really like to see King try something that isn't his usual genre, as he did with Eyes of a Dragon. I think it was a success. My copy is in Four Past Midnight. Probably won't read the other stories right away.
I absolutely love this one! Some say that it doesn't hold up all that well...but I have to say that the creativity in the writing is good enough to overpower any issues the book might have. I wish I could say the same for the quirky TV movie version. Oh well, they can't all be brilliant!
Αρκετά καλό , γρήγορη πλοκή , ανατροπές και με μια αρκετά περίπλοκη υπόθεση . Σίγουρα δεν μπαίνει στα αγαπημένα μου και σίγουρα έχω διαβάσει πολύ καλύτερα βιβλία του Βασιλιά αλλά αξίζει να διαβαστεί ειδικά από τους φανατικούς του Κινγκ .
must change edition
However, the actual langoliers were a bit silly and I felt like the book fell apart a little once they were introduced.
In general, there were a lot of ideas that weren't really delved as much as they could have been, making this book feel like an idea concept that was in testing but not fleshed out completely.Seems most of the Stephen King books I've picked up recently have not been horrors, in the traditional sense.
The ones I've read have really been about people.
But that event typically takes a back seat to the human aspect of the story.
Re read. I am on aSK tour.Have been reading the books I did not read more than two and three times,which means the newer books.. Well not really because this is not a"new" book but have read this one just 2 times perhaps even just once.Enjoyed this story then and now.I like how it works with the Dark Tower books and it made me think.I even did some research about the colony and the ship of which the people all disappeared.Enjoyed
Παλιός, αγαπημένος, υπέροχος King
The concept for the story is very cool. I hated the characters. By far the weakest story in Four Past Midnight.
This was so good. SO GOOD. I felt like I was right there with the characters, on that plane, the whole time. Time travel plus Stephen King plus making me cry? 5 enthusiastic stars.
