https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12880.Black_Lamb_and_Grey_Falcon
Writing a five-star review full of superlatives is always difficult: for people who haven’t read it yet, there’s no way any book can live up to the kind of praise that someone who loves it wants to give out.
Ultimately what makes Black Lamb so astonishing for me is that Rebecca West uses the gifts I outlined above to probe the depths of the human condition in a very clear-sighted way.
Black Lamb and Grey Falcon is one of those books which does not fit so neatly into the stereotypes of its genre.
It is too full of intuition or open questioning (or authorial subjectivity) to be a work of academic history, and it's not as banal as most travel books.
At every town or church, she attempts to trace back the history of this place and connect it to present understandings.
The physical landscape of a place is not only physical, it is connected with the meaning that humans have imposed upon it, through long habitation or religious ritual or the stains of violence.
She did not look like one fat woman, she looked like a cluster of beautiful women loosely attached to a common centre.Or she'll take some historical figure and efficiently condense him, like so much evaporated milk:Prince Montenuovo was one of the strangest figures in Europe of our time; a character that Shakespeare decided at the last moment not to use in King Lear or Othello, and laid by so carelessly that it fell out of art into life.A bizarre—and bizarrely beautiful—passage finds West hallucinating in what is apparently the Balkans’ worst toilet:The lavatory was of the old Turkish kind…The whole floor was wet.
Perhaps this book is best understood as a form of propaganda, or better said, as expressing a distinct political view at a very particular point in time - the run up to the Second World War. And for her Yugoslavia is the real thing of which Mussolini's Italy is simply a flabby imitation, as well as a kind of answer to the 1930s, authoritative, masculine, virile, a country which in her eyes was both well rooted in its past but also confidently looking forward.She travels both through time and space as she takes us across 1930s Yugoslavia.
Sooner or later society tires of making a mosaic of these evil fragments; and even if the rule of hatred lasts some centuries it occupies no place in real time, it is a hiatus in reality, and not the vastest material thefts, not world wide raids on mines and granaries, can give it substance.Throughout my teetering adulthood I often assume and maintain numerous guises.
The principal reason I never read this book in the former Yugoslavia was that I feared I would be the everybore, asking questions about West's observations, as asking whether so-and-so spa was still in existence and could we go there, that sort of thing.
When my wife and I were married 12 years ago I knew about 200 words in Serbian, now I likely know about 150.
Gerda is Constantine’s wife, and of her I will also have more to say.The wonder of this great, meandering book is that it takes one to the heart of a civilization or a people – I really can’t say ‘country’- through its past, through the traces of its past, through its art, particularly in the various religious establishments West visits, places that seem to give one the intensity of the Orthodox experience, mystical, ethereal and yet immediate in the lives of the people.
I imagine this book and I will be together on and off for some months, like a Proust project. But from everything I've heard, I very much look forward to it.
Not since Margeuerite Yourcenar have I felt so humbled and awed by a woman author, whose breadth and scope of panoramic vision is magnificent.
The divide freed her up to gallivant across the world and travel-blog her way through the Balkans and then South America.
I want to benchmark myself against this woman, and doublecheck my approach not so much to the constitutive equations of assimilating foreign cultures but rather the governing equations: because, thats where the rub really truly lies.Preconceptions: we all have them.
Its bestest to imbibe the incomparable: if there are no points of reference, then let magic weave its wendy way.
Another epic book on the Balkans.
The book is the record of a two-month road trip through much of Yugoslavia by a British writer, who meticulously and fastidiously recorded everything that she and her husband experienced on their way.
She has a good eye for people and their ways, and deploys her descriptive powers to good effect when describing the country and its inhabitants.
But perhaps the real value of this book is that the writer visited Yugoslavia in 1939, on the eve of WWII, that everyone knew was coming, but no-one suspected would be so bad.

Spending what turned out to be 6 weeks with Rebecca West, her husband, her Serbian Jewish guide Constantine and his Nazi wife Gerda as they tour what was then Yugoslavia filling my head with philosophy, Byzantine art, history both modern and medieval, ethnography, descriptions of seedy inns and filling meals was the kind of immersion in a brilliant and quirky mind that reminded me both in pleasure and in length of the times I've spent with Proust.It's not a book I can recommend lightly -- I read fast and its nearly 1200 pages were daunting.
Also it is a nice contrast between these western cultures of Germany/Austria and the Slavs that we will meet later, who have much less but enjoy their lives much more (and are way more passionate/engaged with life)(she does seem to characterize / stereotype entire peoples, which is one of the things that bothered me off and on about this book.
official from Serbia, talks a lot, fat, Heine-like (need to read some about Heine), pro-Yugoslavia (but takes it for granted, he thinks Y is needed to maintain themselves against Central Europe), his parents fled from Poland.Valetta, age 26, is a lecturer in mathematics, and a Croat from Dalmatia (Southern Croatia).
And when she talks about the power of art to save and listening to Mozart in the Blitz because Mozart is more important than the bombs.This is a beautiful book, and I think it is a useful book about a moment of culture, a moment of time, a human being making a trip and reading history and looking at things.
It's a slur, and the hatred is alive and well as evidenced in the white washing that happened in Avengers 2 and films subsequent to that), and history actually written by those with some investiture in Croatia, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, Macedonia, Montenegro, and Slovenia, beyond some trite approval of tourist souvenirs and a desire to do some novel "noble savage" writing that hadn't already been taken up by Bird and Blixen.By the end of this book, Constantine, West's officiating friend and knowledgeable tour guide, has had a physically noticeable breakdown that results in, among other things, an increased antagonism towards his English wanderlusters.
I also happened to be spending most of my cafe hours at a place owned by a Bosnian couple.
Many Bosnians had moved to our neighborhood after Bill Clinton finally, and belatedly, awarded them refugee status.
Being pretty ignorant of the history of the South Slavs and having read many times about West's book in articles about the Yugoslavian wars of the nineties, I read it over the course of several days at that cafe.This is not the book I'd recommend for anyone not already generally conversant with the history of Europe, particularly of the inter-war period.
An understanding of inter-war history is presupposed.
I read this book for months (I believe I started it in July).
They spend several months investigating Croatia, Dalmatia, Herzegovina, Bosnia, Serbia, Macedonia, Old Serbia (Kossovo) and Montenegro, mostly in the company of a Serbian Jewish poet named Constantine and, for a time, his quite unpleasant German wife Gerda.
Gerda stands in for everything nasty that an Englishwoman might attribute to a German in the 1930s.
She seems to dislike or disapprove of both Roman Catholicism and Islam (although she does admire the “sensuousness” of the Turks).West's arguments are often suspect, but her writing is superb.
I found the book to be a fascinating read.
What amazes me is how easily she is able to integrate the history of each place that she visits into her description of her own present experiences and then relate that bit of history to the overall history of Yugoslavia.
At the end, it split with a flourish into two streams, which were linked together by a village set with flowering trees, its minarets as nicely placed as the flowers on those trees."The picture is so vivid that it makes me sad I'll never be able to see Bosnia like this.
There's a wonderful intro by Christopher Hitchens in the Penguin edition (which I don't have), but you can get said intro free from Kindle if you order the sample of the book. I just got the Penguin version from the library and am copying the intro with my scanner. Interspersed with centuries of dense historical narrative, West comes up with gems like this description of the Skopje train station: "...the scalp of the years has become dandruffed with undistinguished manufactured good..."
According to Alan Jacobs, "very possibly the greatest book of the 20th century." His review is here.
He also notes that the intro by Christopher Hitchens is a "hit piece on the author" and worth skipping.
(Although I'd read it anyway.)I'm surprised I'd never heard of this book.
I'm particularly interested because my parents currently live in the Balkans (Albania), and my family was just weeks away from moving to Sarajevo in 1991 when the war broke out in Yugoslavia and we were relocated to Warsaw.
I'm guessing this would be a valuable companion book to those who have read and enjoyed Island of the World.
I knew if I wanted to write a novel set in Yugoslavia during the 1940s, I had to tackle Black Lamb and Grey Falcon.
This isn’t the longest book I’ve read, but it felt like it.
There were parts I loved, especially the history.
Yet I could see how each chapter and each tangent told me a little something extra about Yugoslavia.Am I glad I read it?
Parts of it, yes.
I’ll reread some chapters, but doubt I’ll tackle it all from start to finish again.Overall, I felt like I was on a really long journey with Rebecca West.
However, it was one of the finest books I have ever read.
A detailed history of the now Balkanized Yugoslavia up to WWII.
By turns humorous and tragic, West also imbues it with her own idiosyncratic thoughts on history, literature, and life.
She obviously loves the country and its people even as she recounts the often tragic and bloody history of the Balkans that continues even today.
West has one of the great voices.The book features a fine essay/introduction by the unsurpassable Christopher Hitchens that is a pleasure by itself.
It is the worthiest introduction to the book I can think of.
I schlepped this 1000 plus page book around during my travels through Eastern Europe this summer, hoping to gain some insight into the people and places I was passing by. I fell in love with this book - not only the fascinating history of the former Yugoslavia, but also Rebecca West writing. I had trouble picking up a pen during my journey, finding no way I could come close to capturing her descriptions. I also learned that to understand Yugoslavia is to understand one thousand years of conquest and war throughout Europe and the Middle East.
This is one of the best books I've ever opened, but it's 1200 pages long! I'll be reading this thing when they wheel me away to the nursing home, assuming I can even read then.I finally finished it! So good! I'm afraid I'm going to have withdrawal symptoms now. I wish Rebecca West had written a history of every region of the world. But she didn't, so I guess I'll just have to settle for reading this one again, even if it takes me another three years.
The scope of this book is amazing. You have a sense of foreboding reading this because you have the benefit(?)of knowing what will happen to this region over the next 75 years. The shadow of WWII hangs over this and adds even more intensity. I can't forget the words of an old woman in Montenegro; "If I had to live, why should my life have been like this?"
A magnum opus! Travel through Yugoslavia with Rebecca West.
That cannot help but inspire respect, though if you agree with everything she says in this book I'll start thinking you are her clone.There are sweeping generalizations: of course there are, this is a description of a whole country after a couple of visits for a few months each.
This is something to be looked at in her other books: does she stick to that people-over-ideas rule?
If you have forgotten the term Balkanization or why it was coined, Black and Grey makes the case.She has a educated appreciation of architecture and just enough language skills and at least one well-placed friendly and important local to give her readers access to the many pressures and opinions that were simmering under the newly hung flag of Yugoslavia.Mostly Black Lamb and Grey Falcon is a travelogue as Dame West, her European Banker husband and their guide; Poet friend and government officer, Constantine cover the country.
BLACK LAMB AND GREY FALCON. (1940,1941). Rebecca West. ***. I recently read “A Man of Parts,” a sort-of biography of H. G. Wells. Rebecca West was one of his mistresses, with whom he had a child. In her own right, Ms. West was a highly respected author of the times and this book has been called her magnum opus. It certainly is magnum. When I finally got it from the library, I found that it contained over 1,000 pages in a Penguin paperback edition. I was almost afraid to read it. I didn’t want to
In her own right, Ms. West was a highly respected author of the times and this book has been called her magnum opus.
This is a travel/history book about her two extended trips to Yugoslavia.
(The books were written in 1937 before Yugoslavia was partitioned after WW II.) The approach I took was to read those sections that covered the regions that I had travelled in myself.
If you are at all interested in the history and customs of the regions, this is the book for you.
Rebecca West's three trips to Yugoslavia took place in the mid 1930's but this book wasn't published until 1941 and well past historical events in Europe of 1938, 39, 40 and 1941.
True that is what History is but I deemed it awkward here as this book is presented as a story/travelogue of a trip through Yugoslavia and of statements and opinions expressed in the mid 1930's.West's fascinating inquiry into the Serbian poem of the grey falcon and the ritualistic use of black lambs stirred her intellectually and philosophically.
Finally I decided that "Black Lamb and Grey Falcon" would be my summer project.....It is hard to explain the depth and complexity of this book.
So these hundreds of pages serve to kaleidoscope thousands of years of history and knowledge into one moment in time.
Part travelogue, part history, part faithful recording of people and events to bear witness, Black Lamb and Grey Falcon is also a profound philosophical treatise, a weeping over the destruction of civilizations.
Now that I have finally finished, I feel like I want to start all over again, because, just like in the best movies, you only see about 20 percent of the story the first time you experience it.
