https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1872546.Mary_Tudor
HFM Prescott follows Mary’s life in, “Mary Tudor: The Spanish Tudor”.
Plus, the text often deviates and runs off on tangents attempting to embody Mary’s environment but instead highlights everything but her.As naturally expected, “Mary Tudor” gains some momentum when Mary secures the throne.
In the most blunt terms, the ending is poor and lacks memorable essences.Prescott does follow this with an exceptionable explanation of the book’s sources which is useful for Tudor readers overall (versus singularly for this book).
“Mary Tudor” is not a terrible book but somewhat dry and doesn’t bring Mary to life.
Prescott’s “Mary Tudor” is recommended for those readers swayed towards Mary but not for all Tudor fans, overall.
She was a small, thin creature, slightly built with reddish hair.
She had, a strange thing in one so small and thin, a loud and deep voice, almost like a mans.
Simplicity and sincerity were fundamental in her character.
Of that private side of her life the only recorded history is to be found in the pages of her account book.
When it was a matter of judgement and policy, she was a sheep, or, as disastrously, a mule.
As you can tell from these quotes, the author pulls you right in.
You feel you know the characters.
The author brings history to life!
I had never really read anything about Mary Tudor before, other than small mentions in books about Elizabeth I or Henry VIII, so I was very interested in reading this biography.
Though maybe not the best biography out there on Mary Tudor being a bit out dated, it was quite an interesting read and I was glad to pick it up.The biography starts strong with an in-depth look at Mary's childhood and young adulthood, where she went from beloved only child of King Henry VIII and Katherine of Aragon to the unwanted daughter declared illegitimate by her father in his quest for a male heir.
This book was heavy-going - I had to skip a few sections! But considering that it was written in the 1940s, this is understandable. It is well-written, if slightly dry, and well-researched, although not necessarily a perspective of Mary that I agree with. All in all, a book I would recommend to someone interested in a detailed, factual history of Mary Tudor.
This book was written in the early twentieth century and has become increasingly dated with age – Prescott keeps apologizing for the fact that Mary was “just” a “weak” woman – and she isn’t saying it in an ironic way the way Elizabeth I did.
Prescott continually gives Mary a pass for all her mistakes, citing the fact she was emotionally troubled woman.
Emotionally scarred I can buy, but saying that being a woman was the reason for her problems does a disservice to everyone.
A wonderful and insightful read into the life and short lived reign of Queen Mary I of England.
Prescott explores the inaccurate title "Bloody Mary" given to the Queen during her attempt to return England to the "True Faith".
Prescott gives us a look at the ill fated marriage of Queen Mary to Phillip King of Spain and Holy Roman Emperor (the latter title came later in the marriage)and discusses how this marriage had a direct and disastrous effect on England.
This biography is wonderfully written and gives unique accounts and interesting introspection and understanding of the sorrow filled, tumultuous, and disappointing life and reign of Queen Mary I.

Prescott is someone who really likes "Bloody Mary", and spends a great deal of effort and time arguing that you should too.
Admittedly, much of what we think we know about Mary Tudor is hopelessly inaccurate.
Prescott does a good job of portraying Mary as an individual of great personal convictions at a time that many around her simply wanted the right to freedom of conscience.
But, if you can get past that, you get a first rate glimpse into Tudor era England, and a greater appreciation for the challenges to the people living at that time.
For me, Mary Tudor is one of those historical figures you feel sorry, but would never want to met.
She does a very good job of painting the court and Mary's life there.
The problem is that Prescott is very sympathic to Mary.
While I can understand why, it seems lacking to gloss over the people who died during Mary's reign.
It should also be noted that Prescott's book is no where near as biased as Anne Boleyn A New Life of England's Tragic Queen.
If you want a good biography of Mary, this is a good one to start with.

This book was a fascinating look into the motives behind the "Spanish Tudor". I usually enjoy reading about Henry the Eighth and Elizabeth, I never read a lot about the oldest of the the three Tudor children before. I always knew the basic facts of her childhood and brief reign as queen, but this took the story to another more personal level. I felt for Mary, her fears, her disappointments, her brief moments of success, and her continuing and prevailing loneliness.  This book did lack some research, which is acknowledged in my copy's forward.
This was actually one of the better biographies of one of the Tudor Monarchs that I have read...I love this time period and hearing this story again reminded me of some of the aspects that I had forgotten.
A good book, but a little heavy on the intrigues of the court and it factions. The biography dipicts Mary (aka: "Bloody Mary")as a troubled soul. After you read the book, you'll understand why and feel pity for her.
I am fascinated with English history and particularly the kings and queens. I have read many book about Henry VIII and his wives. I found this book a good read with many deailes of Mary's live that I hadn't heard before.
I loved reading this book and all the information offered but because of the length of the book it did get a little tedious.
Enjoyable read and an engaging subject.
This book helped me to fill in the gaps.This book covers a lot of history, from Mary's childhood and how her father Henry VIII's marriages affected her, to her relationship with her half-sister Elizabeth, the politics of the time period, her brother's brief period as king, the religious turmoil of the time between the Catholics and Protestants in England and abroad, her accession as queen, and her marriage to Philip of Spain.
It's written in such a way as to make the reader feel like they are in the time period, among the courts of Henry VIII, Mary's brother, as well as her own courts.
Great biography of Mary I that really paved the way in the turn of appreciation scholars have had for her in the last decades.
The writing is really dense, almost dry at times, quite scholarly, but the research that has been put into writing it clearly shows.
Brillant read for everyone who wants past that awful "Bloody Mary" nickname (which is totally undeserved, compared to her contemporaries and relatives), but it requires a solid background knowledge in Tudor History.
Might be difficult to read for people who are not native speakers - I know I had a few issues at times.
Great biography of Mary Tudor, aka Bloody Mary. As the monarch of England preceding Elizabeth I, she is easily overshadowed and forgotten about. While her reign was disastrous, the author truly examines her character and the history that led her to be the ruler she was. Her continual mistakes and flawed decisions are painful, yet one can't help but pity her and what she could have been had things been different. Definitely a fascinating read!
not sure I'm going to finish this one but I'll give it a try. I think Mary was a messed up pill but I should give her a chance.
Excellent history - a wonderful read.
Loved getting a more personal looking into the life of Catherine of Aragon's daughter. A very interesting read!
Dated and essentialist scholarship. But engaging.
A different view of this most unhappy and lost queen. Abandoned by her father, bastardized, and force to live in a world she did not understand, she did her best, but it was not to be.
very interesting
I'm a big fan of Tudor history and even I found this one to be a bit tough to get through.
It was informational, and great for projects if your need many sources. However, compared to others like it isn't as interesting.
It's a biography, but it reads like a book. Very good read. I went from knowing Mary Tudor as only "Bloody Mary" to sympathizing with her and frankly feeling sorry for her.
