https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18736925-capital-in-the-twenty-first-century
There is precisely no observable economic force (no free-market, or growth rate or invisible hand) or principle or idea, that will prevent wealth from continuing its already stratospheric concentration into fewer and fewer hands at levels which we haven't seen since the 19th century.
Indeed, one suspects the reason so many of the book's historical and cultural references (Jane Austen and Honre de Balzac show up in this book, much to the shock and delight of this overly-humanistic reviewer) come from the 19th century is because, as Piketty shows, we are quickly returning to a world where economic inequality resembles and quite likely will exceed the sort of stratification seen in 1800's europe.
For here, I'll tone it down a bit: whether you agree with it or not, Capital in the Twenty-First Century is a profoundly important book and will continue to dominate economic and policy discussions for years.The very title is a provocation.
One example is Simon Kuznets' developmental curve, which claims that income inequality will go away on its own once capitalism has achieved a sufficiently high state of development.
Piketty notes that there are three political factors which go against income inequality - wars which physically destroy stored capital, taxes which redistribute it, and inflation which destroys financial capital.
Part of the reason for this, as explained in this book, is that Marx based his model of Capitalism on a steady state economy.
The problem is that what happened in the middle of the 20th century – the time when society became more equal – was a direct consequence (not of Capitalism becoming inevitably more egalitarian) but of two world wars and a depression.
Taxes were imposed everywhere on rent capital and this too made society much more equal.When you go out to work you make stuff and gain an income.
It attempts to resell the already disproven lie about post WWII growth being caused by taxing the rich when in fact very few of the wealthy elite actually paid the 70-90% tax rates.
Post WWII growth was the result of the U.S. holding excess gold reserves from Europe and the Bretton Woods conference that made the U.S. dollar the world's reserve currency.
You will learn about the roots of socialism and understand that such ideas are not new and will never work, no matter how it gets repackaged.
Since I didn't have an opinion before, it would be more accurate to say this book gave me a way of looking at the structure of wealth in economies over time.First things first, for people who read reviews of the book rather than the book itself.
One of my favorite things in the book is how Piketty uses literature to illustrate his historical points, particularly the writing of Balzac and Austen.
I would say that he is more invested in offering a data set and a way of looking at the history of wealth than he is in actually getting the reader to embrace a global tax on capital.
“Indeed, the distribution of wealth is too important an issue to be left to economists, sociologists, historians, and philosophers.” ― Thomas Piketty, Capital in the Twenty-First CenturyThis is one of those scholarly books that seem to end up being accidental cultural markers of time and place.
My guess is this book will stimulate a lot of debate about the real nature and scope of income and capital inequality AND debate about the proper roll of government in addressing these issues.What I loved about this book was Piketty's voice, his narrative style.
He’s not so much concerned with the size of the economic pie, but how it’s cut up.His main thesis is that inequality grows under capitalism, that unfettered free markets make the rich richer and the poor poorer — a standard Marxist position — and that the only solution is to tax the dirty, filthy, stickin’ rich with highly progressive taxes on their income and wealth.I don’t want to be picky, but Piketty often ignores data that contradicts his theory of growing inequality.
Spoiler alert....Holy smokes, this was a tour de force of political economy & economic history. Piketty explains why a tax on capital is so much preferable than taxes on income, the need for global cooperation and why inequality in America will only get worse unless policymakers address higher education affordability, tax policies, especially on inheritance, and minimum wage laws. A brutally long read, yet well worth the effort.
دوستانِ گرانقدر، این کتاب به نوعی پرفروش ترین کتاب در زمینهٔ "سرمایه" است.. امّا در این زمینهٔ خاص کتابی کاملاً تخصصی بوده و نیاز است که پیش از خواندنِ آن اطلاعاتی در موردِ نظام های سرمایه داری و سیاست های کشورهایِ مختلف در این خصوص و همچنین مطالعات در زمینهٔ اقتصاد و البته تاریخِ سیاسی ملل و جنگهای جهانی را نیز داشته باشید تلاش من این است که در این ریویو تا جایی که میتوانم با بیانی ساده، مطالب را بیان کنم و البته تا پایان ریویو اطلاعاتِ خوب و مناسبی در خصوصِ "سرمایه" در اختیارِ شما ایرانیانِ خر
این کاهش چندان ارتباطی با فرآیندِ آرامِ طبقاتی نداشته است***********************‎در حالِ حاضر بخشِ عمدهٔ سرمایهٔ جهان در دستانِ سرمایه دارانِ خصوصی قرار دارد و در کشورهای غربی، حتی آن بخش از سرمایه که عمومی محسوب میشود نیز معادل با بدهی های هر کشور است، لذا سرمایهٔ عمومی این کشورها معادل با صفر میباشد‎امّا باید بپذیریم که امروزه نفوذِ دولت ها بر اقتصادهای جهانی، بیش از گذشته است***********************‎رشد بی سابقهٔ اقتصاد اروپا و آمریکا و کاهشِ نابرابری در این کشورها در سالهای 1945 الی 1975 نتیجهٔ اِعمالِ مالیات های سنگین بر درآمدها و سرمایه ها، به منظورِ بازسازی پس از دو جنگِ جهانی بوده است.
eat the rich https://www.theguardian.com/business/...*The introduction includes one of the most gratifying paragraphs ever writtenTo put it bluntly, the discipline of economics has yet to get over its childish passion for mathematics and for purely theoretical and often highly ideological speculation, at the expense of historical research and collaboration with the other social sciences.
However, Piketty also acknowledges that in the 20th century wealth inequalities were wiped out only due to world war; from this perspective, it would seem Marx actually wasn't nearly apocalyptic enough in his predictions.
In other writings in the recent past Piketty has also recommended a return to the high top tax rates used in the United States and Europe in the period from the Great Depression prior to the Reagan / Thatcher putsch.Key concepts in the book:1) Kuznets was wrong (Ricardo and Marx were right)2) A return to simple models of the macro economy3) The rise of patrimonial capitalismA more detailed discussion of these topics is on my blog
For these reasons, capitalism on its own tends to produce a relatively high degree of inequality.The natural tendency of capital to accumulate and to become ever more concentrated largely explains the high degree of inequality that was witnessed in the developed world in the early part of the twentieth century.
The reason for this is that the major events of the first half of the twentieth century (including the two world wars, and the Great Depression) thwarted capital’s natural tendency to accumulate, and also destroyed large stocks of wealth.
Questo bellissimo, documentato e ben scritto saggio – ho molto apprezzato lo stile chiaro e estremamente divulgativo, che rimanda le tabelle più prettamente tecniche a margine e sul sito dell'autore, oltre che gli esempi letterari per mostrare l'evoluzione del capitale nella società occidentale, nei secoli – farà inacidire i neoliberisti che cercheranno in ogni modo di smantellarne l'impianto teorico.
Bla bla bla.Questa la tesi dell'ultradestra americana, iniziata a circolare in ristrettissimi circoli finanziari (Rockfeller, per dirne uno) agli inizi del XX secolo e che è stata diffusa come il Verbo in tutto l'Occidente, grazie alla cooperazione di Think Tank, i quali infiltrando suoi adepti (mi si passi il tono messianico) nei gangli vitali della società: giuslavoristi, politici, professori universitari, sociologi, giornalisti e quant'altro, ha predicato la politica neoliberista come l'unica efficace, coaudivata dall'introduzione della Globalizzazione all'alba degli anni 2000.
He correctly anticipated the criticism he would receive from the right wing and thusly he makes no claims without laying EXTENSIVE foundation for them.That makes the book a bit of a Catch-22.
However, for those that don't like these conclusions, no amount of foundation would be enough.
I dare say many of the negative reviews on this sight clearly didn't read the book and seemed to read only the introduction and conclusion.
Here is my impression of those reviews: "How can he possibly make these claims??!!" To those I say, read the book.
To nie jest książka popularno-naukowa.
To nie jest książka która w prostych słowach wyjaśnia, jak działa światowa gospodarka.
Aż doszedłem do ostatniej części...W niej (wcześniej także) autor wyjaśnia bardzo klarownie, chłodno i bez emocji skąd biorą się nierówności.
Bo:- wynika z nich, że podobna ja teraz sytuacja była w przededniu I Wojny Światowej- wynika z nich, że jeżeli nic się nie zmieni, to nie ma wielkich szans na odwrócenie tego trendu - bogaci będą coraz bogatsi kosztem biednych, bo system nie może inaczej funkcjonować.
(Daję ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ nie dlatego, że to pasjonująca książka, ale dlatego, że wydaje mi się bardzo ważna)
In a world that is increasingly blinded by ideological polarization, where we first decide what we believe we should believe in and then try to find facts to justify our cherished ideas, Piketty’s book comes as a surprise and a reminder that there is no substitute of good scholarship.
Within that environment Piketty has been able to take a few very simple ideas and build a convincing string of factual evidence and impeccable logic to build his argument.
I must admit that when I read articles written by his smart critics, criticizing the book, I find their arguments also powerful and almost convincing.
Uma longa, longa leitura sobre a distribuição de dinheiro atual.
Piketty passa pela história dos países com uma economia mais bem documentada (principalmente Inglaterra e França, mais vários outros), naquela abordagem comparada do Porque Falham as Nações e As Origens da Ordem Política: Dos Tempos pré-humanos até à Revolução Francesa.
E em seguida destrincha como acontece o acúmulo de capital na parcela mais rica da população, como esse acúmulo flutuou (diminuiu depois da Segunda Guerra e agora subiu novamente) e o que guiou as mudanças.É um livro bastante longo e um tanto repetitivo, mas muito bom por ser escrito fora do eixo americano, o que dá uma refrescada nas ideias.
At any rate, Piketty's interesting global observation is that much of modern economic theory and empirical work has been based on observation of time series collected during an anomalous historical period, and thus it may have limited "external validity." We should try to make some kind of rough mental correction for this fact when looking at statistics such as, for example, the average annual return of the stock market.
In general, Piketty's answer to the question is affirmative, with larger endowments showing better returns.
Although his book is theoretically thin and concludes with a political program that is simultaneously overfamiliar and quite unlikely to be enacted, Piketty has done an enormous service simply by compiling the amount of data that he has about how the predominance of wealth has varied over time in different countries and by laying down a marker for how economists should properly investigate the world.
He is to be commended as well for demanding a humbler empiricism from the community of economists.
Scarcity, and indeed most of Piketty’s analysis is based on an operating assumption on the left which from my view it is not helpful to understanding complex problems because you ultimately spend more time on allocation issues rather than figuring out how to make everyone better off.Piketty is a logical successor to Thomas Malthus - whose Treatise had such an influence on much of economic thinking but began with flawed data and linear assumptions.

"I refuse this nomination because I do not think it is the government's role to decide who is honorable. They would do better to concentrate on reviving [economic] growth in France and Europe," Piketty told AFP*.  "César Birotteau,another Balzac character,made his money in perfumes.He was the ingeniuous inventor of any number of beauty products-Sultan's cream,Carminative Water, and so on-that Balzac tells us were all the rage in late imperial and Restoration France. But this was not enough for
After rejecting the sage advice of his wife,who urged him to invest in good farmland near Chinon and government bonds, he ended in ruin".in "Capital in the Twenty-First Century"I watched Paul Krugman being interviewed by Moyers, and commenting on this book.
(c)	Krugman acknowledged that the book was a “revelation” , because “we’ve stopped talking about capital”…:we’re heading towards “an Oligarchy”: of a few people with high income and lots of assets; patrimonial capitalism.
He recalled a time when France apparently “committed to equality” (before WWI) was, in practice, “dominated by a very few (group) of wealthy families”.-- Just like the USA,...
من أهم الأسئلة الواردة في الكتاب :ماذا نعرف فعلاً عن تطور توزيع الثروة عبر الزمن؟ وهل تؤدي ديناميّة تراكم رؤوس الأموال الخاصة بالضرورة إلى تمركز شديد ودائم للثروة والسلطة في أيدي عدد قليل من الناس، كما اعتقد كارل ماركس في القرن التاسع عشر؟ أم أن القوى االموازِنة للنمو الاقتصادي والتنافس والتقدم التقني ستؤدي تلقائياً إلى تقليص اللامساواة وإلى استقرارٍ منسجم في جميع مراحل التطور المتقدمة، كما اعتقد سيمون كوزنِتس (Simon Kuznets) في القرن العشرين؟ ماذا نعرف بالفعل عن كيفية تطور توزيع الدخول والثروة (الأصول) منذ القرن الثامن عشر؟، وما هي الدروس التي يمكن استقاؤها منها للقرن الواحد والعشرين؟*لا يقدم الكاتب اجابات قطعية وشافية، بقدر بغيته في إثارة قريحة القارئ في البحث والتساؤل حول حقيقة مايحدث خلف الأروقة المغلقة.
The point of the book is to reshape the conversation, and that he has thoroughly achieved by forcing economists, politicians and the public to face the reality of income inequality and inherited wealth worldwide.
Arthur Goldhammer deserves considerable credit for his English translation.
The book may be more elegant in French, but you wouldn't know from the translation's clear, compelling language.
Six hundred pages is a lot - and not for everyone, even those interested in the book's central arguments - but six hundred pages of arcane economics and history are rendered remarkably readable, itself an achievement as grand as its thesis.
Even his ultimate call for a global, progressive tax on capital appears as utopian, in his own words.At times the book is mordant: "The top 10% [of a future America] could therefore use a small portion of their incomes to hire many of the bottom 50% as domestic servants" (257) OrIt may be excessive to accuse senior executives of having their "hands in the till", but the metaphor is probably more apt than Adam Smith's metaphor of the market's "invisible hand" (332).In the United States the Supreme Court blocked several attempts to levy a federal income tax in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries and then blocked minimum wage legislation in the 1930s, while finding that slavery and, later, racial discrimination were perfectly compatible with basic Constitutional rights (653 n49)Key terms resonate, like patrimonial capitalism (173), society of rentiers (264), or inheritance society (351).
But it’s worth putting in the effort to better understand those arguments.The introduction is an overview of basic economic theory that puts the concept of capital at middle of the discussion.
As a non-economist, I also appreciated Piketty’s forays into the literature of Jane Austen to illustrate his points.In part four, Piketty considers some of the basic needs to provide for functioning “social state for the twenty-first century” and how capital might be treated to make a fairer, more prosperous state as well as one that can be productively proactive to address expected and unexpected social, political and economic issues.
Moreover, because the return from capital was consistently higher than the growth rate in the economy, the incomes of this rentier class tended to grow faster than those who had to work for a living.
They are influenced by political events and policies, but the more significant mechanism is the comparatively small difference, year on year, between the growth of GDP and the rate of interest and rent due to capital.
Because, year by year, the difference between the rate of growth and the return to capital is typically small, it has taken decades for the progressive compounding of this difference to take effect.
More recently, however, the developed world has returned to the regime of low growth--high return on capital, and consequently in some ways the distribution of wealth at the beginning of 21st century approaches the extremes that were prevalent in France and Britain at the end of nineteenth century.
You can thus situate your own wealth and your own income against the wealth and income distributions of past and present societies.For a lay reader such as myself the findings seem solid, and the proposed remedies reasonable.
The majority of economics that Americans are going to encounter is fairly limited-- the names Krugman, Friedman, Smith emerge, but to what extent do we know of their actual theoretical bases.
Or their underlying assumptions about the economic endeavor?Enter Thomas Piketty, who has somehow entranced American intellectual life-- not something that most authors of 600-page, data-driven treatises can do.
In its practice, it's excellent social science, in that it Piketty is empirical, sober-minded, is sure to point out his lines of reasoning and root assumptions, and is willing to be ecumenical in his ideas, freely incorporating history, political science, and sociology as he sketches his (devastating) argument against the neoliberal orthodoxy.Much is made of the fact that his conclusions and prescriptions are almost hopelessly, naively impossible.
Yet it is also in a sense a work of economic history (with a smattering of references to Austen and Balzac, and the film Titanic), dating back to the political economy tradition of the nineteenth century, when the young field was (or aspired to be) more about polemic and ideology than quantitative models.
That tradition also includes Marx, who Piketty seeks to emulate, though he dispenses with the former's Hegelian Grand Theories of History.Fundamentally, Piketty's platform much more resembles that of a far less divisive figure: Henry George, whose  Progress and Poverty was one of the revolutionary works of economics of the late nineteenth century.
