https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16339.The_Sittaford_Mystery
A pretty entertaining mystery, although a little excessive as to coincidences and red herrings. The human element would have been stronger if we had ever met Jim -- or would it? Maybe he would have proven to be just as wimpy and dull as he sounded second-hand.
Whatever one calls it, this novel typifies why Dame Agatha is the Mystery Goddess to me.
She often provides hints to anything up to half a dozen solutions of fiendish ingenuity, and I figure them out...only to have her hit me upside the head with the ONE solution that somehow I didn't see coming!Such is Murder at Hazelmoor.
But then, Dame Agatha always believed the worst about human nature!
I also love it when she does the "hat trick" of having an apparently supernatural occurence--in this case a seance that appears to predict a murder--and then provides a solidly real explanation.
I am really enjoying Agatha Christie novels! I like the way she has a sly laugh at crime detection. I like the way she includes red herrings. I like the way I can’t work out the culprit, dammit! I even like the 1920s language, and laughing at the cultural norms of the time and wondering what on earth Christie would make of life in 2017.
But he doesn't murder people.”Once again, Christie's wit and humor blow me away.
Also worth noting was the mountain of 1931 slang that was colorful and highly amusing.Emily Trefusis is a gem – plucky, smart, funny – and able to get any man, woman or child to do what she wants through subtle manipulation, praise and occasional tears.
Actually, Christie creates a brilliant and gradual love triangle with Emily, the jailed Pearson, and the intrepid reporter Enderby.
Pretending to be Emily Trefusis instead of Katniss Everdeen.Published as Murder at Hazelmoor OR The Sittaford Mystery.
Major Burnaby who has gone to visit with his neighbours the Willets finds himself participating in “tableturning” but after a harmless bit of fun, the “spirits” inform them that Captain Tevelyan has been murdered.
When Major Burnaby trudges through the thick snow to put himself at ease and ensure Trevelyan is safe, he finds that the séance was in fact right, and the Captain has been murdered.
It was great fun “watching” Emily as she approaches the Captain’s relations and Sittaford residents finding out all she needs to know, and some that she probably doesn’t.
But two of the characters in this story do, to everyone's puzzlement.
But they're not even the most interesting characters in this mystery.
That honour goes to Emily Trefusis who, after Captain Trevelyan is murdered and her fiancé is charged, embarks on her own investigation of all the potential suspects, roping in a reporter and using her wits, intelligence and lots of logic.
This isn't a Marple or Poirot story, and this time the Police Inspector is a pretty smart guy.
Emily and Inspector Naracott conduct their respective investigations, eventually pooling their knowledge together, and I was surprised by who the murderer was.
“People don't do things without a reason.”Another entertaining read. No Poirot or Marple in sight, which always means that you have no idea where the narration is going to go. I rather enjoyed following smart and manipulative Miss Emily, sleuthing to prove the innocence of her Fiancé, who yes, looked rather insipid. One ‘thing’ at the beginning gave me a clue that reduced the pool of suspects. Still, it is always fascinating to see what all that colourful cast had to say and more importantly, to hide ;0)
A very enjoyable read, like all Agatha Christie, and with some wonderful characters, although I think my reading was slightly marred by having seen a (very different) television adaptation of the story first.
It sets the scene for one of my favourite cozy mysteries: A small village near Dartmoor - you know, the misty remote parts of Baskerville fame.Some of the villagers have are gathering for tea and enjoy a game of table-turning, adding a supernatural edge to the already eerie setting.As the party enjoys the movements of the ouija board, it spells out a name and the party is stunned:  "Supposing something had happened to Captain Trevelyan…Supposing…" Anyway, not to take too much away from the ensuing story, there is a murder and a subsequent investigation, and a number of potential culprits.
I think the main issue was that I just found the why behind who murdered an eccentric and misogynistic man (Captain Trevelyan) to be boring due to one of the main character we follow through most of the book.Captain Trevelyan is found murdered after a weird seance tells the group who is holding it that he is dead.
She always has the bright young thing seemingly throwing her life away on some man that is not perfect since she will bring him up to scratch.I also didn't like how we get the perspective of the person who murdered Trevelyan but with a cheat (you don't know that you are not getting the full picture until the end).
THE SITTAFORD MYSTERY made it onto my list, 5 Snowy Literary Escapes from this Summer of Climate Change Horror http://tinyurl.com/h6ca8ca You'll get mental frostbite reading this one, but it's better than the heat! #BeachReads
Arrest him!"Anyway, seems like our heroine in this book, a potential long-lost feisty niece of Miss Marple, Emily Trefusis is well-aware of the shapeliness of her sit-upon, and she is aware that she looks fantastic.
And always, for people like Emily, her resources include gallant men of all ages who want to be impressive, and they want her to be with them, etc.
Emily agrees that these men can, why not!, go ahead and put yourself through multiple inconveniences, how impressive!
And the gullible menfolk help her solve the mystery.Was I surprised by the ending?
Mystery stories make no sense to me.
Ah, how wonderful it is to follow your gut right from the start and not let go even as she started throwing in little hints to who else it could be.
Overall, this wasn't too thrilling of a mystery since I followed my gut the whole time and didn't sway with it.
Usually, I just go along with mysteries and don't bother trying to formulate too many ideas.
Most of my ideas are flexible in mysteries.
This is one of the few I've actually gotten right, another notable one being The Cuckoo's Calling.
It was by chance that I picked this Christie mystery out of the pile to read next, the story is set 
3.5Un buon giallo, con le atmosfere invernali che avvolgono un paesino sperduto nella brughiera inglese. Sedute spiritiche e gente sospetta, una ragazza investigatrice e un mucchio di pettegolezzi. Un romanzo che non ha risposto appieno alle mie aspettative. Soprattutto per quanto riguarda il finale.
What starts as an innocent game of table-turning, turns genuinely sinister when the spirits spell out that the house's absent owner, Captain Trevelyan, is not only dead, but that he has just been murdered.
So begins Agatha Christie's novel The Sittaford Mystery (published 1931), but perhaps better known by its American title The Murder at Hazelmoor.
Christie has a special fondness for characters like Emily, and used them in several of her best books from the 1920s.
The Sittaford Mystery is the 16th title in my personal "Agatha Christie Project", the object of which is to attempt to read all of her books more or less in chronological order.
However, I found it hard to keep all the characters straight in my head and I'm not sure I completely understood who a few of them were, and next I found the reason for the murder pretty lame.
While he was present in the story, he seemed to do very little in solving the case.On an aside note, I read this one years ago - the title 'Murder at Hazelmoor' - from the Agatha Christie book club, which still sits on my shelf.
The paperback I read had it.
Two thoughts - just how much other stuff did those book club editions leave out of their stories, and next, why didn't the paperback version say 'Christmas' instead of 'Xmas'?
Un giallo discreto, tipico della Christie.
Bella l'ambientazione del paesino sperduto nella brughiera innevata, abitato da personcine niente male, che hanno fatto, e fanno, del pettegolezzo la loro ragion d'essere.Non mancano però gli "estranei": una ragazza investigatrice (un po' supponente a dire il vero) caparbia e decisa a trovare la verità, e un giornalista che per puro caso è sul posto.Tutto ha origine da una seduta spiritica, fatta tanto per ingannare il tempo, in casa di due donne attorno alle quali aleggia il mistero, durante la quale viene annunciato il delitto della persona più in vista del paese.Tra molte chiacchiere (e ce ne sono veramente tante!, fino all'ultima pagina) e un ispettore che si mantiene quasi defilato, si giunge ad un finale che boh!
In a small village called Sittaford, most of the residents meet at a house to have a nice evening together.
The people decide to play a game: table turning.
In this game a murder is being announced.
And in fact someone dies, outside of the village, but a resident of Sittaford.
But from time to time it's also nice to read her different crime stories (although I remember one book that was so boring and annoying to read ugh I almost gave up on it).I always try to read between the lines and see if I can make out who the murderer is before it's being revealed.
A stand-alone Christie set in a village near Dartmoor, which we saw in our travels while living in England. The setting called to mind various literary scenes, particularly early chapters of Pip’s experiences in Great Expectations, especially when there was a convict escape. This novel features an intrepid young woman fighting to clear her fiancée’s name, a Johnny-on-the-spot reporter, and a police inspector, as well as a village full of red herrings and suspects. A very enjoyable read, somewhere mid-level for me Christie-wise, but still a good read. 3.5 rounded up to 4 stars. Positively recommended.
I really like Agatha Christie and i believe that she is maybe the best writer for this kind of fictional stories. This book is one of her early works most probably ( around 1920s?), it is a rather long book for its kind: too much blah blah, until the last pages you cant imagine who is the killer of course but the reasoning of the whole plot at the end isnt believable for me. It is a good story for relaxing but i was waiting for something better.
Not Christie's most complex mystery by any means, but a good cosy read I snuggled down into with enjoyment.
Really?) There is no sleuth in chief here, just a young woman determined to stand by her man.
There are almost too many characters in this book, which is typical of Christie in the early days.
The cast includes a woman with a rather nasty invalid husband, which reminded me of Ordeal by Innocence, published nearly 30 years later.
Was Christie trying out the character?
I really enjoyed this mystery- a cozy, compelling read. I’m surprised it is not more popular.
🔫A real braintwister this old standalone from1931, she left me puzzled again. I love the atmosphere in those old Agatha Christie's between the two wars.
Re-reading Agatha Christie in order of publication ...This was an extremely pleasant, if not compelling, book.
A classic cozy book.
I fell in love with the characters of Major Burnaby and Emily Trefusis.
I also loved how small and isolated the town of Sittaford was.
I wish there were additional books with this town and its inhabitants!The majority of the novel was pleasant, if a touch mundane, about life in a small English town.
It was a bit hard to keep track of...
almost everyone suddenly became a suspect and it was a bit annoying.
Classic Christie female empowerment, while maintaining a pleasant and charming feel.
There is something very appealing about murder mysteries set in remote English villages under heavy snow.
There is an expectation that something interesting will happen, like the murder of a rich old Scrooge.The Sittaford Mystery is an absolute Agatha Christie classic.
It has an interesting mix of characters, young and old, plenty of red herrings, and a clever riddle at its heart.
I mean, in a little place like Sittaford, you can’t have previous engagements, and when invitations are showered on you it’s a bit awkward.
They’re exceedingly kind, hospitable people, but a bit too hospitable for English ideas.”“The Colonial touch,” said the Inspector.
Her portrayal of the insular life and intriguing characters of a small, remote English village was, as usual, very well done.There were plenty of red herrings, suspects, motives and clues.
That she used all of her feminine wiles to coerce men into doing whatever she wanted is not a trait I admire in women, but Emily's tactics certainly netted her many valuable clues.Because this book was written in 1931, it was amusing to read about the methods of communication and travel back in those days, especially when one thinks of today's fast-paced technology and instant communication.I did think the motive of the murderer was a little on the weak side.
I finished this Agatha book this morning and I really enjoyed it.
...This was definitely more of a character drive story than one of action.
All the characters seemed to be sizing up the others and spent lots of time gossiping about each other....However, without my favs Miss Marple or Poirot this wasn't one of my favorite ACs. I give it 3.5 stars, but round up because this is the queen and she deserves it!...High Fraser was the narrator and he does many of ACs books and he is FANTASTIC.
I definitely recommend any of his audiobook narrations.
Загадката беше прилично интригуваща, особено с призрачнатаа мистерия, която, пак за жалост, беше отхвърлена от всички действащи лица като несъществена, чак да се чудиш защо е включена.
Отново Кристи-шаблонът се задейства в цялата си сила – Разкритие, благодарение на неспоменаван артефакт, появяващ се чак на края на произведението; разсейващи сюжетни линии, които водят до тривиална английска калтащина; персонажи просто премълчаващи очеизвадни подробности, колкото и пъти да ги питат; английско лицемерие в пълен разцвет, изкривяващо всичко...Като цяло ми допадна, обаче.
