https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38333.Black_Hole
Well, the art was very lovely, and there were a lot of points at which I was like, "How does his brain manufacture this shit??" which is kind of the ultimate for art in one way, isn't it?
The depiction of drug culture and abuse is particularly disturbing here, in large part because Burns nails it so accurately.My problem with this was that I just didn't care at all about the characters or the story.
I mean, I liked reading it, but I never felt emotionally engaged in the slightest bit.
Adolescence as DiseaseCharles Burns’s Black Hole is a strange and somewhat disturbing graphic novel depicting some teens engaging in drinking, smoking pot, and sexual acts.
When I first read this story I thought it was just about a bunch of late seventies teens, boys and girls, growing up together, but in this reading I think Chris and Eliza--two young women--are the main characters.
Black Hole is as difficult and challenging as any great post-modern novel, with visual representations that evoke the complexity of growing up instead of just words.
ME: Everyone raves about this book. It’s one of like ten graphic novels everyone is supposed to read and love.Me: It looks creepy.ME: It’s creepy, but it’s also artsy and intellectual and a big metaphor about something important.Me: What’s the metaphor?ME: There’s a scary sexually transmitted disease, so… AIDS?Me: I’m not buying it.ME: Well, read it anyway. Trust me. It’ll be worth it.Me: Okay, but it’s more than just an extended metaphor, right? There’s a real story with a real point?ME: Just read it.Me: I read it, and it didn’t go anywhere. You lied to me. I hate you.
I was fretting vaguely about these themes for some time afterwards, and when I saw a copy of Charles Burns's Black Hole in a bookshop, I realised that it was exactly what I'd been looking for.I haven't read this since, I don't know, some time in the early 2000s, and I don't know if I ever read it all the way through at the time – doing so now, I realise what a superb achievement it is, surely one of the greatest comics to come out of the American tradition.
I’ve never read a graphic book like this!!!!
not from ‘me’....READ David & Glen’s reviews ....or others ....They rated this book 4 and 5 stars....
All I want to do is fall asleep — During the 70’s when the world was a-changing.....I was on the ‘tail’..., ( haha -“tail” I repeat!!!!).....
should never be about Disease & murder - It’s hard enough being about drugs & sex.I honestly don’t know what to say...I need to sleep on this book - digest some thoughts ...Read other reviews.I AM GLAD I READ IT....
Black Hole is not about depression, but it nearly gave me one!Alienated teenagers. Teenage angst. Coming of age. A plethora of drug abuse and sex. Not my favourite topics to read about, but the story was strangely intriguing. And nightmarish. I hope I can sleep well tonight...I don’t dare to recommend this disturbing book to anyone.
In truth, Black Hole should probably only rate three stars, but it's such an impressive effort and intriguing concept I'm giving it four.
Stylistically, Burns' art is extremely intricate and has a very nice noir quality to it.
The strange thing about his art style is that even though it is very slick and eye-catching at first, the more you look at it, the more you look you notice a certain clumsiness abaout it.
He also uses a vagina-esque motif continuously in Black Hole, which bugged me.
I find myself wondering about the people who read this collection when the issues were first individually released.
Or were people simply lost in the art and their own fucked up memories enough to dismiss the book's faults?Maybe the story passed over my head.
There is a great deal to say about the book's atmosphere and tone, the plethora of inner teenage angst.
The entire work is a giant metaphor for the end of adolescence.I had great difficulty telling the different characters apart.
The entire piece was extremely depressing and the story felt incomplete.
In the end, my interest was slightly peaked but the story still felt incomplete.
I finished Charles Burns’s graphic novel in the middle of the night, and wow… I gotta say, it lingers like the tail end of a surreal, disturbing dream.
That’s fitting, because a lot of the book’s characters feel like they’re caught up in a nightmare too.Black Hole is like the offspring of director David Cronenberg and YA novelist John Green.
Even in scenes that take place during the day, there’s an ominous feel to them, like a modern film noir.
And the book’s cover image and endpapers evoke high school yearbook photos: those glazed, fixed expressions on people’s faces that are frozen in time and, when we look back at them, tinged with melancholy and ambivalent feelings.
Where they belong.This collected comic strip dates form the early nineties and beyond so can be excused for leaping on any sexy-teenagers-and-the-supernatural bandwagons that have popped up in recent times.
My central problem with Black Hole is my weariness at having sexy American teenage brats as protagonists, especially those undergoing coming-of-age experiences with an added macabre aspect.
Especially if the sympathetic characters are overly sexy teenagers drawn to look like actors in their twenties.
I still resented how the sexy chick escaped with only a partial tear down her spine, and distanced herself snootily from her fellow freaks, but those are my own armchair issues.
Taking place in suburban Seattle in the 70's, and featuring rotating POV's of various high-school students, Burns' top-notch writing, characterization, and artwork perfectly capture what it's like to be a teenager, complete with all the fears, insecurities, triumphs, and tragedies that seem so important at the time.But there's a surrealistic, nightmarish element thrown in the mix: the bug, an STD that manifests itself in a variety of deformities: tails, extra mouths, shedding skin, etc.
But I think the way Burns handles it only deepens the theme of alienation, making it a more powerful statement overall.Black Hole has really stayed with me over the past few years, even popping up in a dream I had recently (which was the reason for this recent re-read).
And indeed, I don't think it's any coincidence that the dust jacket of this book features dual illustrations of Burns himself, one from the 1970s and one from our times; although not literally an autobiographical tale, you do get the sense that Burns is working out at least a few personal issues from his own youth here, using an otherwise fantastical tale to intimately explore many of the emotional subjects that come with being a teen.The story is simple enough -- it is the late '70s, and a mysterious new sexually-transmitted disease is starting to affect the high-schoolers of suburban Seattle; but instead of being an AIDS-style killer that eats away from the inside out, this virus actually attacks a person's exterior, manifesting as a series of random genetic mutations depending on who you are but otherwise leaving the inside of the body healthy.
And yes, I still have my mood ring.It was not a bad time to be a teenager.But then again...I was not sexually active.AIDS had not yet reared its ugly head.
Once you got it, you had it for life.In this bleak graphic novel, set in the seventies, Seattle area teens have to deal with all the usual angst ridden issues of their age group - peer pressure, popularity, sex, isolation - AND - a strange, uncurable STD that causes not only eruptions of repulsive festering sores, but lumps, shedding skin, gaping wounds that talk, and tails.
But the thing is, if you are going to have a teen plague that distorts infected bodies so that kids grow tails, bumps, horns, or webbing, then having adults in your story kind of gets in the way of .
Adults are what teens become when they settle down into a life that attempts to eliminate through acceptance or rejection the odd and the grotesque and no one in this book is quite there yet; Chris ambiguously ends up floating in the Sound, and while Eliza and Keith have "escaped," their dream of finding a safe place is brittle at best.
I guess I just expected more..? This was very strange and very boring and the plot never really went anywhere. Some of the images were very creepy and terrifying which is what I wanted from this but the story was not compelling at all, and I found myself skimming most of the story. The ending wasn’t satisfying at all either (if that’s even considered an ending really...?) This has some really creepy imagery but other than that the story itself is very uninteresting.Book 2 of the Spookathon is complete! This completes the challenge for reading a book with pictures!
I like to think I've read a lot of comic classics, but I always found myself putting off Charles Burns' work.
I'm glad I finally got the chance to see what all the hype was about: Black Hole is a weird and wonderful graphic novel that kept me entertained throughout my reading.
There's a bunch of creepy crafts in the woods that hint at a sinister individual lurking at the edge of the teens' vision.Though there's a lot to like in this background murder storyline, the real money comes from Burns' supreme character work.
It read like a bad acid hit.
The details, hidden bits and suggested images had me staring for long periods like a Hidden Picture puzzle.
The little bits of the 70's shown in the background the music, the drugs the attitude, nailed it.
I like dark, but this one was too close to home ?
I lost friends to drugs, Aids, depression, some ran away never to be seen again.
I rated it only three stars because I don't want to read it again.
I would not recommend it because of how I reacted to it.So if you are good with dark, sexual, drug, murder, social drama, read this.
It evokes quiet but expansive sounds, like the wind stirring a field of tall grass at night.
Reading it all in one sitting would've been like drinking a pint of espresso.
As much as a lot of the story is made up of social scenes, the impression I'm left with is one of solitude and darkness, an overwhelming (but not entirely awful; in some way oddly comforting) sense of one's helplessness and insignificance in the vastness of the universe.TinyLetter | Twitter | Instagram | Tumblr
This is a weird one.
At times, it’s almost TOO all over the place, at least in terms of a focal point, but really, that might be the idea.
It’s a world where sex causes hideous body mutations, and the stigmas and fear these new changes bring.
This is a coming-of-age story to be sure, but tone and atmosphere are the driving forces here, as we explore each character’s budding alienation.
There is complexity of character and of the world itself that is begging me to give this a second read, if not to enjoy the art again, to unlock all the layers twisted up in this tale.
I don't usually read graphic novels -- especially not gruesome graphic novels about teenagers with bizarre sexually transmitted deformities.
But I loved this!
Well, "loved" might be the wrong term, but I thought it was incredibly compelling.
And that art is stunning -- the book looks like one long, detailed woodcut.For a sometimes graphically horrific story, it's surprisingly sweet -- the teenagers are vulnerable and oddly romantic.
It's a haunting book on many levels and I'm really glad I read it.
What. In. The. Hell. Did. I. Just. Read?This was weirdly fascinating and morbid. The illustrations were very good, but the story line came through a little slow in my book. Interesting, none the less.
A volte guariscono dal "virus", altre volte no.Il titolo, Black Hole, vuole probabilmente indicare il buco nero che attira e risucchia i giovani, sprovveduti e spaventati, nel passaggio sempre problematico all'età adulta.Immagini grottesche, venature horror, simbolismo, suggestioni visive.
It's some how less unrealistic to me that there is a mysterious sexually transmitted diseases that makes you grow a vaginal-metaphor in your throat or a tail or turn into a dog-face boy than that dozens of teenages from nice suburban homes could develop horrible mutations and disapear en-masse into the woods with absolutely no part of the adult world even noticing.
It really doesn't help that the ending is obviously intended to be lyrical and beautiful and symbolic and open to a variety of interpretions and is instead just pretentious and confusing.My brother gave me this book.
Can't believe I've never remembered to put this on my shelves. I love this graphic novel, which turns teen sexuality (and terror of same) into a metaphor that's, like, Hawthornian in its perfection and simplicity.
If you want to read a weird comic with horrifying pictures, a plot that doesn't really go anywhere and a completely unsatisfying ending, then have I got a book for you.
This book had a lot of buzz, however, and it was also a bit of a horror story, so I decided to try it out, and I was really glad I did.There's a lot of social commentary in this graphic novel but it doesn't get in the way of the story.
This was one of the most engrossing books I have read, graphic novel or otherwise.
That's when you know a story has truly succeeded in its purpose.I would really recommend this to anyone who likes to read.
Picked this because of an interesting cover. (Yeah! books shouldn't be judged by their cover... )Enjoyed the graphics, but the plot wasn't as interesting. Considering the timeline when this was created as individual episodes, it might have been fun. But reading it as a single edition felt repetitive. From chapter 2 till the last chapter, it was almost evident what happens next.The visual representation of various diseases and deformities was excellent!
Charles Burns' masterpiece reads like a Larry Clark 1970's white trash nightmare where sexually promiscuous stoner teens spread a quasi-AIDS virus that turns them into scary monsters and super creeps. After an eternity of drawing crazy monsters and chain-smoking Mexican wrestler detectives Burns is at the top of his field as an illustrator and raconteur. Excellent and highly recommended. A+
When I read a short review of Charles Burns’ new graphic novel, Black Hole, the description of the work it proffered (quoting from the book’s jacket: “the mid-1970’s…a strange plague has descended upon the area’s teenagers, transmitted by sexual contact.”) made me wonder if the man ever wrote about anything else.
We start about halfway into the tale and then fill in the rest through flashback and as we do, things said, lines that appeared just filler dialogue take on deeper, darker meanings.While the clear metaphor for AIDS runs through the story, Burns’ interests aren’t simply for drawing clear parallels to our own society in such a specific way, but focuses more on the idea of infection as a kind of social ostracism.
Πρόκειται για ένα αρκετά πολυδιαβασμένο και πολυσυζητημένο κόμικ, μείγμα κοινωνικού δράματος, ιστορίας ενηλικίωσης και τρόμου, με την ιστορία να είναι ενδιαφέρουσα και ιδιαίτερη, τους χαρακτήρες ρεαλιστικά δοσμένους και την ατμόσφαιρα αρκετά σκοτεινή, κάπως απαισιόδοξη στο σύνολό της, αν και με νότες αισιοδοξίας.Προάστια του Σιάτλ, δεκαετία του '70, μια παράξενη επιδημία που μεταδίδεται μέσω της σεξουαλικής επαφής έχει πλήξει τους εφήβους της περιοχής.
Ουσιαστικά για κάποιες λεπτομέρειες δεν βάζω πέντε αστεράκια στο πολύ δυνατό και λιγάκι ιδιόρρυθμο (με την καλή έννοια) κόμικ του Charles Burns, όμως σίγουρα έμεινα απόλυτα ικανοποιημένος, τόσο από την ιστορία, όσο και από το σχέδιο.Υ.Γ.
