https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35961720-you-think-it-i-ll-say-it
I am impressed by how engaged I felt with each set of characters in each stories.
There is a mean undercurrent in many of the stories.
The way her characters see others, themselves...
Also these are white middle class people stories.
These stories are really good!
But there is one story where people of color kind of serve as a backdrop against with the protagonist acts and it’s a bit awkward in that it reveals the whiteness of the collection in very distinct ways.
I’ve read that story several times and it never gets old.
4.5 stars.Many of us, whether we'll admit it or not, have made snap judgments about people. Sometimes we judge people we might have met once, or known a long time ago, and are coming into contact with them again after a while. Sometimes we believe something about a person we know well, while other times, it's people we don't know, but we formulate an opinion based on something we hear them say or do. The characters in Curtis Sittenfeld's first story collection,  You Think It, I'll Say It , are a
—these stories aren't outlandish or unrealistic, and you could imagine the situations the characters face happening to you, or hearing about them from people you know.
Her writing style is so breezy and approachable, and there were times I didn't realize how dazzling her words were until after they passed me by, kind of like a person wearing a cologne or perfume you suddenly catch the scent of.I know short stories aren't for everyone, but this is one of those collections I think even non-story lovers might enjoy.
is a prime example of why I love stories, and the incredible talent it takes to make a collection work.
I read a few low reviews from readers missing their beloved characters ....but I loved the modernization updated story that took place in Cincinnati.
I’ve had a new ‘thing’ for Cincinnati every since reading “Eligible”...I wish I could be part of a seminar/group where we discussed ALL BOOKS by Curtis Sittenfeld.
When it comes to contemporary fiction - great laughs - insights - punch’s of truth in my gut - I don’t have to look much further than a Curtis Sittenfeld book.
The title of the book is actually ‘not’ the title of one of the short stories ....
And a woman contemplates her near-hate-like jealousy for the reality lifestyle star who was her first lesbian experience way back when (“The Prairie Wife”).
After the third or fourth story, I just relaxed into the read and went with it, knowing that the place I’d end up in the end wasn’t where I thought I was going in the beginning.
It allows for a phenomenally smooth read and for the reader to have time to become one with the characters, no matter how short the stories are.
You Think It I'll Say It is fairly typical of short story collections in that there were a couple of stand-out stories, but most of them hovered around okay/not bad.
As well as that, though, I just liked the idea that maybe it is possible for people to change; maybe that's not being fake, but honest.Most of the stories are about fairly quiet encounters between white upper middle class people.
Still, if you like character-driven stories, I would highly recommend grabbing a library copy of this so you can check out "Gender Studies" and "The Prairie Wife".
3.5 stars rounded upShort stories are the tapas of the book menu.
I like Curtis Sittenfeld, but I hate the fact that a short story typically ends just as I’m getting invested in a character.
In each of these stories, the narrator misjudges someone.
Almost all the stories involve the interaction between men and women.
All the stories are interesting, some really grabbed me (like The World Has Many Butterflies and Plausible Deniability) .
But damn it, in the end it comes down to I want more.
A five minute YouTube clip isn’t enough, I want a full length movie.
Sittenfeld brought me up short on one of them and cleverly exposed a bias of my own and made me laugh at myself.
If you read this collection, I am referring to "The Prairie Wife" story - I made an assumption I shouldn't have.
I'm sure I won't be the only one!I'd only read two of Sittenfeld's works prior to this - "Eligible" (meh) and "Sisterland" (loved!).
I have yet to get to "Prep" and "American Wife," but I will definitely be reading those.
I highly recommend this to those who love perfectly crafted sort stories and gentle social commentary.
I received this book for free through LibraryThing’s Early Reviewers.This collection of short stories was so amazing!
I’ve never read any of her short stories so I did not know what to expect.
Usually with short story collections, there will be some stories I liked and some that I didn’t.
But with this collection I can honestly say that I liked them all.
That connection gave the book a sense of closure, which you don’t really see in short story collections.Curtis Sittenfeld’s writing style is phenomenal.
Overall, if you are looking for a quality short story collection, then definitely pick this book up!
So many times I would finish a story and think "oh wow, it's okay if I don't have my life completely figured out right now, or even when I'm 30, or 40, or ever" and "we really are always learning, making mistakes, and hopefully learning from them." I suspect Sittenfeld draws such distinct, fleshed out characters with so few pages at her disposal through capturing their emotions well.
Though it feels effortless when read, I can see that the creation of these stories - where they start, how much background to provide about each character, etc.
I was tickled to discover Sittenfeld's mordant wit and sense of humor, the finest of any female author in my recent memory, e.g., husband responding to wife asking whether he found woman attractive, "She's hot, but in a cheesy way.
The best collection I have read since the tremendous trifecta a few years back of Fortune Smiles, The Tsar of Love and Techno, and Thirteen Ways of Looking.
4 Stars You Think It, I'll Say it is a collection of short stories that tackles the complexities and diversity of judgment.
Whether it's based on personal biases, misgivings, or hilariously misconstrued situations the character's in Curtis Sittenfeld's stories are all victims of their own preconceived notions.
Judgment is human nature and it was fun to read a collection of short stories circling around that theme.
I highly recommend this read, and judging (see what I did there) by my own love of this book and her last one Eligible, I am now certain I must devour everything this woman has written!
***NO SPOILERS***Sittenfeld’s is a style I adore--brave, insightful commentary on real life written in engaging prose--and it works perfectly for this collection, my newest favorite.
My common complaint with short stories is that often their premise is too ambitious for the format.
Twenty or so pages is so few and too many short story writers lack the talent to work within that limitation.
I feel sure that Sittenfeld fans will enjoy this collection, but I also recommend this to lovers of literary fiction, especially of the very candid variety.
There’s real life in these pages.
You Think It, I'll Say It is Curtis Sittenfeld's first short story collection.
After cutting her teeth on novels, she has decided to pare things back and present us with a collection of ten contemporary short stories - all of which are near perfect.My standout story has to be 'Off the Record', the story of a journalist (and new mother) who conducts a truly disastrous cover story interview with one of Hollywood's biggest names.
I wish I had more to say about this collection, but I'm afraid I hate nothing more than just listing superlatives.
I will genuinely be impressed if a better collection of stories is published in 2018.
I intended to save it until I finished the book I'd just started, but when I idly paged through You Think It, I'll Say It, I was immediately drawn into the first story, "Gender Studies," and wanted nothing more than to keep reading.
I usually hesitate to read a book of short stories all at once, preferring to space the stories out over time, but when it came to You Think It, I'll Say It I just rushed in and never felt any of my usual desire to slow things down.
This was… a really nice surprise. Literary short stories are not something I tend to reach for, but I loved this, and I want to thank my fellow reviewerLarry so much for recommending this collection and for constantly reviewing books that don’t seem like my thing but… end up being my thing?All these stories are about  incorrect perception:  of those around you, if yourself, of a situation. And they are so much fun. This collection had an average rating of 4.0 for me, which is a result of an exac
Literary short stories are not something I tend to reach for, but I loved this, and I want to thank my fellow reviewerLarry so much for recommending this collection and for constantly reviewing books that don’t seem like my thing but… end up being my thing?All these stories are about 
★★★★★Follows a woman who decides to be like a girl she sees named Rae. An interesting story about how we can be strongly impacted by someone else but not impact them at all.
I honestly felt nothing for this; it didn’t feel like it was trying to say much, and 
A wonderland of short stories that I've sprinted through twice.
Well, first was the sprint; second was the stroll.
Each story is an independent book full of characters with full on emotion, yours or theirs.Ten stories.Gender Studies - A story about a mistake.The World has Many Butterflies - Petty banter leads a woman to signals crossed.Vox clamantis in Deserto - Never assume by words on a shirt.Bad Latch - Babies change us.Plausible Deniability - "Neither 'plausible deniability' nor 'lie of omission' is really a legal term.
The Prairie Wife - A person can change and still stay themselves inside.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestCurtis Sittenfeld is one of those hit-or-miss authors for me, where I really like some of her books, but I wouldn't call her a favorite author because she's let me down too many times. Cases in point: while PREP and THE MAN OF MY DREAMS are among my favorite books, AMERICAN WIFE and SISTERLAND were both crushing disappointments that I could hardly stand to get through.With that in mind, I approached YOU THINK IT, I'LL SAY IT with hopeful ca
"Please don't let me down again," I thought.YOU THINK IT, I'LL SAY IT consists of ten very different stories that look at women as if they were specimens in a Petri dish.
But the married brother doesn't know that his unmarried brother and his own wife are writing to one another.I thought this was an interesting story, and it does subtly bring up the difference between physical and emotional cheating, and how both are equally damaging to a relationship.A Regular Couple: ☆☆☆☆½I think A Regular Couple is the story I related to most out of this collection.
This short story collection features ten short stories from author Sittenfeld, featuring a cast of diverse, real characters.
But when I saw that Curtis Sittenfeld had a short story collection coming out, I knew I wouldn't be able to resist.
She gets a lot of press for Prep, but I feel like American Wife and Eligible are both still so fully ingrained in my brain.
I probably enjoyed this set of short stories more than any other I've read in ages.
I could have read more about each story's characters, sure, but I didn't feel frustrated when they ended, which was so amazing and different for me.
[4.5] It is rare that I rate a short story collection 5 stars because I usually find the quality of stories uneven. Not with this book. In all of the stories, Sittenfeld brilliantly captures each character's insecurities and confusion with razor-sharp wit. This was a compulsively readable book and easy to love.
I’m a big fan of Sittenfeld’s and I’ve read and ❤ all of her books. So it pains me to write this review. This book didn’t resonate with me in any way, shape or form. When I would try to delve into each story with an open mind and connect with the characters, the stories just seemed oddly weird or completely fell flat.Out of the 10 short stories, Bad Latch and The Prairie Wife, were the only two I was glad I read, as I considered several times of abandoning it all together.I’m totally in the mino
I’m a big fan of Sittenfeld’s and I’ve read and ❤️ all of her books.
This book didn’t resonate with me in any way, shape or form.
When I would try to delve into each story with an open mind and connect with the characters, the stories just seemed oddly weird or completely fell flat.Out of the 10 short stories, Bad Latch and The Prairie Wife, were the only two I was glad I read, as I considered several times of abandoning it all together.I’m totally in the minority here, as there are so many raving reviews by other readers, so please take my review with a grain of salt, and definitely consider reading this book, especially if you are a super fan of the author as I have been for so many years !⭐️⭐️ Stars !!
Reece Witherspoon’s May 2018 Book Club pick.A collection of 10 short stories about relationships and gender roles told on many viewpoints; a lawyer, a mother, student, etc.
It’s stories delve into the snap judgement we put on others that are usually askew.
The writing was wonderful and the stories gave me a sneak peek into these individual lives, lives different from my own (but not so different they couldn’t happen or to a friend.)This book is the inspiration for a tv series being developed by Reese Witherspoon.
I enjoyed the book and has peaked my interest, I’ll definitely check into it when it becomes available!
They’re about marriage, parenting, authenticity, celebrity and social media in Trump’s America, with the two key recurring elements of role reversal and retrospect.The opening story, “The Nominee,” which only appears in the U.K. edition, feels like a natural follow-up to American Wife.
Though never named, the narrator is clearly Hillary Clinton, and in a voice that’s consistent with her memoirs she ponders her struggle to earn popular appeal: “The typical American voter doesn’t wish to share a beer with me.” It’s 2016 and she’s about to be interviewed by a younger female journalist who has written about her dozens of times.
Nope. Just nope.
Since this was a set of short stories, I took my time reading it between other books.
Each of the stories are insightful, somewhat sexual although never graphic, and well worth reading.
One of the characters, a 24 year old girl working as a volunteer to spend time with mothers and children who are homeless, has a serious case of OCD.
and through her interactions with two female volunteers working with her, her illness unfolds.
Each of the stories explore different histories of relationships in a way that is very thoughtful and interesting.
Genre: Adult FictionPublisher: Random HousePub. Date: April 24, 2018I very much enjoyed the author’s previous novels, “Prep” and “American Wife.”The later was a barely hidden portrayal of President George W. Bush’s wife, Laura. I enjoyed “Prep” but felt that “Wife” was a stellar read. These books are why I wanted to read the author, Curtis Sittenfeld, again. In her newest work, Sittenfeld pens ten short stories that consist of characters who are financially comfortable, all with a female protago
Genre:	 Adult FictionPublisher:	Random HousePub. Date:	April 24, 2018I very much enjoyed the author’s previous novels, “Prep” and “American Wife.”The later was a barely hidden portrayal of President George W.
I enjoyed “Prep” but felt that “Wife” was a stellar read.
The characters' ages range from the college years through middle-age, showing how women with distinctive personalities wrestle with the different challenges that arrive at different times in their lives.The book’s title comes from the story “The World Has Many Butterflies.” In this tale, a married woman flirts with a man in their social network.
She is obsessed with a famous woman (think Martha Stewart) who she met as a teen at summer camp.
This is the first short story collection I've read in its entirety and I LOVED IT.
Curtis Sittenfeld's cleverness, wry wit, and ability to make every story resonate had me eager to keep reading.
I was particularly struck by how much she made me care about the characters in just 10 to 20 pages; she did a phenomenal job of developing a story and making me feel invested in a short amount of time.
I've been a fan of hers for a while -- particularly American Wife and Prep -- but now I might just be a super fan.Thank you to Randomhouse for gifting me this copy in exchange for my honest review.
But, as I started whipping through each story within 20 - 40 minutes, I realized I craved the next.
I kept asking: where is author, Curtis Sittenfeld, going to go to next?To me, the overall theme was that each character was in their own head.
After I finished each story I would think of each character "where are they now?" The cool thing about this book is that I can create the answer to that question in my own head; since aren't we all in our own heads...see what I did there?!
brief notes on the ten stories:Gender Studies: going to be dated/historical fiction soon because the 2016 election is discussed - found disturbing & depressing but interesting, with a perfect endingThe World Has Many Butterflies: good story, but on the edge of depressing and even though maybe somewhat realistic about people struggling to like or care about the people in it/themVox Clamantis in Deserto: Hmm. Whole better than sum of its parts?
Do-Over: Another story, this last like the first, that dates this collection, but reading it now works for me.
I guess reading it as historical fiction will eventually work too.
There is a certain feeling I have reading Curtis Sittenfeld's work, like I'm a little drunk and oversharing with someone who happens to be a great writer. These stories do not disappoint. Her characters are refreshingly unlikable, brash, imperfect, funny, and Sittenfeld is a genius at placing them in perfectly fraught situations; not physically dangerous, but challenging and deliciously complicated. What these stories have in common is that they all contain moments of thrilling transparency, when, for a brief, satisfying time, we are allowed to see these people (and all people) for who they truly are.
These stories focus mainly on women’s perspectives on career, marriage, sex and children. While I think she often nails it, overall these stories are a bit too cynical. The writing was OK, and I felt that many of the stories were pretty boring. 3⭐ maybe?
These stories focus mainly on women’s perspectives on career, marriage, sex and children. While I think she often nails it, overall these stories are a bit too cynical. The writing was OK, and I felt that many of the stories were pretty boring. 3⭐️ maybe?
