https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/106590.Lincoln
General George McClellan comes through as the one that most lacked the will to fight and it took Lincoln a while to deal with him.
Indeed, the whole time I read about Lincoln’s dealing with McClellan tormented me and I found myself lacking patience.The Emancipation Proclamation is the one act Lincoln was famous for although he could never imagined himself doing it.
However, it was limited to the rebel states, and not the general end of slavery as I believed.
In hindsight, it's easy to assume that Lincoln did the right thing by continuing the war until the United States was reunited.
I learned about this biography from the bibliography of John Keegan’s fine history The American Civil War. It’s quite a find.
The story of Lincoln’s frontier upbringing in Kentucky, Indiana and Illinois reads at moments like a fable out of Aesop, perhaps principally because of its rustic setting.
McClelland in a letter to his wife called the president a ”gorilla.”I am six foot four, Lincoln’s height, which is not so unusual in the 21st century.
I love the high dudgeon of the press which raked Lincoln’s administration over the coals in the first two terrible years of war failure.
David Herbert Donald's one-volum history of Lincoln's life is said to be the best one-volume biography ever written on the subject.
As a lawyer, I found the anectdotes about Lincoln's appearances before the Illinois Supreme Court quite fascinating; for non-lawyers, it's probably a drag, and you'll probably be wishing for a good Mary-screaming-at-the-maid story.Of course, a great deal of time is spent pondering Lincoln's ever-evolving view of slavery, from his earliest writings on the subject to his last words regarding Reconstruction shortly before his death.
This was a brilliant biography of one of the greatest Presidents in US history.
It dispels quite a few myths about Lincoln while diving into his psychological makeup and his complex decision-making process.
A deeply involved person, Lincoln assumed total control of the US in 1860 just after the start of the Civil War and faced an enormous amount of challenges.
A fantastic read, especially now that the US administration has been a chaotic joke for nearly two years.
It was refreshing to read about what a true self-made leader looked like.
Many of my politically inclined friends have attacked him left and right: For his appalling record on civil liberties and violation of constitutional principles--and some claim that Lincoln should not be seen as a champion of equal rights and racial justice--I've even known some to claim the Civil War had nothing to do with slavery at all.
The personal and political challenge on his taking office were thus immense--but Donald believes he grew greatly in that office--and Donald certainly makes a strong case for that and makes you appreciate the crushing decisions Lincoln faced.
I've owned this book for years, and finally read it. It was grand, just unfortnuate for Donald I read this after Caro, so 4-stars and not 5. I'll review more in a few.
As I am not a Civil War buff it was with some trepidation that I read this almost 600 page biography on Lincoln.
The focus is on Lincoln – there are very little details on Civil War battles or persons who had no personal influence on Lincoln (such as Robert E.
Also the book ends abruptly after Lincoln’s assassination, with no rounding up of his later impact on the Reconstruction period.We get a full-fledged depiction of a man who was little prepared to be a President during this turbulent epoch.
Initially for Lincoln; the war was for re-unification, not for the emancipation of the slaves.
Well...it's a historian's biography.
Nobody could write a more scrupulous single-volume account of the passage of a 19th-century human being's day.
So I learned a lot about Lincoln - but never quite felt I knew Lincoln.
It doesn't approach him through anything but his story.
I'm not looking for wild leaps, but the best biographers (Caro, obviously) make cautions forays into the mind and character of their subjects that illuminate them.
This book, beyond reiterating Lincoln's fondness for his children and tall tales, doesn't really give him...contour, I guess.So if you want to know the facts, it's ideal; if you want more, keep searching, probably.
Excellent, outstanding book!! The man, the Presidency, the legend. His life was cut far too short by a cowardly act. Would that the US have learned it's lesson from this tragedy but alas we have not. What does this say about us as a nation? My heart grieves for all those senselessly lost.
Last week I read Jon Meacham's ponderous and extremely boring "American Lion".
"Lincoln" did not disappoint.While Donald used as many quotes as Meacham used in "American Lion", the difference was in execution.
It was this fatalism, I think, that gave him comfort when he made decisions that would reverberate through the ages.I always thought I knew everything about the Civil War period and Lincoln, but I learned so much from this book.
I have not read "Team of Rivals" yet, but this book has definitely piqued my interest.Very inspiring
White for that honor.) Professor Donald brings you into the Illinois frontier of the 1830s and 1840s, into the small-town squares for the legendary debates between Lincoln and Stephen A.
Douglas, into the White House as the Civil War rages all around, and even into the presidential box at Ford's Theater.Its shortcoming (the same is unfortunately true of "A.
He truly was an extraordinary man in extraordinary times.
Without him at that time and place, it's doubtful we would have the United States of America today.
For the most part I did not find it a page-turner, and I often had to force myself to pick it back up, particularly the early chapters which largely concerned local Illinois politics.I’m glad I stuck with it, and as you’d expect, the narrative became more interesting once Lincoln enters the presidential race.
I’m not very knowledgeable about the American Civil War, and while I learned a lot here, the book’s tight focus on Lincoln assumes a better grasp of the contemporary political landscape.I see that many reviewers question the author’s decision to end the book abruptly with Lincoln’s death.
Donald does a fantastic job of making Lincoln come alive and allowing the reader to join the 16th president on the amazing journey that was his life.Donald's framing device is that the reader is presented with the information Lincoln knew at the time.
Donald does still touch upon Lincoln's personal life during these years, including difficulties regarding Mary, and the devastating loss of their son Willie.As I finished the book, I realized that, even knowing all along how it sadly must end, Donald had brought me so close to Lincoln that it touched me personally, as if I myself had lost a friend or mentor.
I also plan to read other well-regarded single volume biographies of Lincoln, including Abraham Lincoln: A Biography by Benjamin P.
The volume also speaks in detail about the human side of his presiding over the Civil War. If you want details about campaigns and battles, this is not the book for you.
The book concludes with the assassination and the telling phrase by Secretary of War Edwin Stanton as Lincoln breathed his last (page 599): "Now he belongs to the ages." This is an excellent volume, jam packed with details, and depicting nicely Abraham Lincoln, the human being.
Ward, one of the writers behind the great documentary "Ken Burns' The Civil War," is quoted as saying that his book is "richly researched." That is a a bit of an understatement.
But it is also its greatest weakness as it isolates Lincoln from the times he lived in rather than a person of those times.
This is especially frustrating during his pre-presidential years as key events in American history that would lead to the Civil War and Lincoln's presidency are given little, if no, acknowledgement.
A little more credence to historical events and more analysis of Lincoln's historical significance would have been nice .
This story is heavy on facts and insight but is relatively light on the nuances that would serve to place the reader “in the room” with Lincoln.Donald’s biography generally proceeds chronologically, as would be expected.
But compared to the far more expressive treatment the Lincolns received in Michael Burlingame’s recent two-volume study of Lincoln, Donald’s description of the Lincolns often seems relatively bland – and certainly less dramatic.Overall, David Herbert Donald’s “Lincoln” is an excellent biography though it did not quite live up to my high expectations.
DKG likes to push her “special” Lincoln Team of Rivals theory but: wasn’t the history of prior American politics the forming of unusual alliances to get the job done including odious patronage, non-stop party feuds and petty duels between seemingly grown men?
[Lincoln sounds here just like Cornel West, Noam Chomsky, and Howard Zinn explaining that by historically bullying the world to do our bidding while we pretend to be only helping, we proclaim ourselves as political hypocrites before the world.]How far has the Right in America come?
Because the Negro was a man, there could be no moral right to slavery, which was `founded on the selfishness of man's nature.' `No man,' Lincoln announced, `is good enough to govern another man, without that other's consent.
The team of Generals Grant, Sherman, and Sheridan would win a great deal of victories in battle and this would help Lincoln insure a victory in politics.
Although, he hated slavery more then anything, presidents, as he knew, had no legal power to free slaves.
He told me that everyone should read a biography of Abraham Lincoln.
This biography seemed so well-balanced and documented that I feel it offers a true portrait of Lincoln.
Since Lincoln is such a revered figure in American History, I thought most biographies would be all sweetness and props to Abe. However, this biography revealed his strengths and weaknesses.
Some of the most interesting chapters were the ones discussing Lincoln's career as an attorney riding the circuit.
An excellent read from someone interested in Lincoln or history.
I often wonder how any other human can understand another enough to write a definitive story of their life.Having said that, I believe Donald has done an admirable job with this book.
And actually, this book did much to make me truly appreciate Lincoln, even knowing his faults.
All men are human and completely imperfect, which often does not come across when others sometimes rhapsodize about Lincoln.
That Donald could show the man's eccentricities, failings, and shortcomings while also explaining the reasons he did transcend his times makes me appreciate this biography even more.
A good look at Lincoln's life that remains interesting despite its necessary length.
I enjoyed learning about his early years and seeing how greatly they shaped him.
He was really strong, largely self-taught, and great at managing people of opposing personalities/interests.
It was good to learn about his weak points too, like being indecisive in many things and too lenient with people he liked.
Lincoln's views on race and slavery were nuanced and he's often wrongly portrayed as either a champion of equal rights or a racist who used emancipation merely as a tool of war.
Tuthfully, this book deserves 5 stars.
It was so well researched and so well done.
The only reason I gave it 3 stars is that it took me forever to get through it (and to be honest, I didn't get all the way through.
It's over 700 pages or 33 CD's if you listen to it on Audio and it was due back to the library when I was ~80% through) because it almost read like an encyclopedia/text book.
So, if you're a civil war buff/history buff/Lincoln buff, this is a 5 star, excellent book.
But if you aren't, then it's hard to get hooked and make it through the whole book.
although I think I understand why.Donald’s stated mission was twofold:(1) Present Lincoln chiefly from his perspective, so as to eliminate the many issues peripheral to the man and his presidency which could easily bog down such a monumental work, and (2) Diligently document the circumstances behind each one of the major events of his life and the decisions of his presidency.
Donald be like, "Lincoln continued to try cases on the Illinois circuit, often traveling for several weeks at a time.
This was a strain on Mary, and Lincoln worried 'that she may have too much on her hands and too little money.' He argued one case in Edwardsville 'disputing a violation of contract' for a railroad interest." The purpose of this, I suppose, is to stay close to the historical record and show that Donald isn't making things up.
Even the second half of the book, about Lincoln's presidency, reads like this.
Lincoln has always been my favorite president, so I figured it was about time I read a definitive biography about him.
I like how it shows Lincoln as a human, with strengths and weaknesses and a great deal of misfortune.
He wasn't perfect, and had some whacky ideas (his initial solution to ending slavery was to send African-Americans to a colony in Central America).
I loved reading about the political drama that surrounded his initial election, and the subsequent battles within his cabinet for influence.
It all made me yearn for a president who cares about people, and cares about words.
After reading Days of Fire, Bush comments that Lincoln had a very difficult time in office. This is probably not the ideal book to start with among the many titles of or about Lincoln out there (too long)because like the author adds, this book is more about Lincoln's evolution as a political figure.
This was an epic chronicle of Lincoln’s life that reflects the sheer complexity and pragmatism of the man.
People always trusted Lincoln, and as a clerk he got to know his community in Illinois (he moved there as older teenager).Lincoln’s first political run was for state legislature, where he finished 8th out of 13 candidates (losing, just the top four advanced).
Lincoln, despite little experience as an elected official, was a name many papers and people supported as a candidate, first due to his role in forming the Republican party in Illinois, and second because of his notoriety from debates and speeches made regionally prior to the election.
With that, the inexperienced one term former Congressman was President.Presidential Career – Lincoln’s goal coming into office was to balance his Cabinet with former Whig and former Democrat Republicans.
It is a fact that until 1864, no country had successfully held an election in the midst of a civil war; the American accomplishment was both unique and downright awe-inspiring.[return][return]At least as far back as Shelby Foote s 3-volume masterpiece, The Civil War; A Narrative, in any in-depth history of the Civil War, Lincoln comes across as a decisive leader and politically shrewd; in fact, most historians call him a political genius.
He changed America because he abolished slavery in America and won the Civil War. Finally the last question is Do you think this person is a hero?
I personally think that he is a hero due to the fact that he ended slavery and won a very important war in America's history.
So as one can see those where the questions about Lincoln.
First I would recommend it to people who love Abraham Lincoln.
Finally I would recommend this book to people who would like to learn the history of America and its turning point.
