https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/365047.The_Door_in_the_Dragon_s_Throat
i nearly peed my self with terror when i read this book. Granted i was like 11 but still it was really good. i was reading under my blankets with a flashlight when some household pet made a noise i jumped so high i nearly nocked my brother out of the top bunk and i threw the book across the room. it went out the door and crashed into the bookshelf in the hall. It was great!
I picked it up specifically for he and I to do together as good father-son time...and I had read some of Peretti on my own and really enjoyed it.This was a great book for the pre-teen and early teen set.
He pulled up just a few scriptures but wove it into the story line and had the characters act like normal people that have a strong faith that they rely on...maybe it is a little overdone in spots, but with the age range that this is intended for, I would not expect subtlety to reign.So, neat locations to engage kids in thoughts about geography and alternate cultures....check.An entertaining story...check.Something that ultimately shows that good defeats evil...check.A biblical perspective that keeps truth in the forefront...check.A book and a series that I will enjoy with all of my sons?...
Definitely the scariest of the books. Based on a passage in Revelation 9 it features demons locked behind a door that Dr Cooper is commissioned to open. As usual the action is Indiana Jones style - fast paced and thoroughly engaging - with supernatural themes. The power and authority of Christ over the demonic is strongly emphasised. Kids are left in no doubt our God is greater but the reality of evil spirits is clear in this book. I read it to my kids but altered it where I felt necessary
I don't know if it was too trite or what.I imagine that, for me, rereading this as an adult was like what rereading The Lion the Witch and the Wardrobe would be for a non-believer.
It's just that with a deeper theological background now, some of the dialogue in the book seems a little forced.It was funny though, in the book Dr. Cooper and his kids go to Nepur to search for a supposed treasure that's locked behind a giant, ancient bronze-like door.
We both had a medium-to-good laugh about that.I assure you, as I assured her, that's not the treasure that's behind THIS door.
3.5 starsThis book is fast moving!
Looking for a packed adventure?
I really liked Dr Cooper.
He seems like a cool, level headed truth seeker.
And his kids are terrific.
Lila and Jay almost seem too mature for their age though.
You can tell they have seen a lot in their lives already.
Snakes, scorpions, shaman, kidnapping and more are here.
From the first chapter to the very last page.
It is rare I find a book this packed.
I wish it had honestly slowed down just a tad for some character building.
I guess I felt this book was just kind of weird.
I definitely believe there is a spiritual world, and angels and demons, and all that; but not really in the sense this book was portraying it.
I mean, I don't think we actually physically fight demons, or that they are holed up somewhere and could get loose.
I think we need to know a certain amount about the spiritual world, but maybe not read frightening stories about demons trying to get loose and kill us.
I know people who do though.
I guess anyone else can decide for themselves if this is a book they would enjoy.
The Door in the Dragon’s Throat is set in Nepur, a middle eastern Ruritania that Peretti is careful to point out is not majority Muslim, but rather in the grip of “superstitions” that Dr Cooper is only too happy to pooh-pooh the moment he meets the locals tasked with assisting him.
Dr Cooper and his kids are hired by the corrupt sheik-like President of Nepur to excavate the site and open the doors, which are rumored to protect a vast hoard of wealth.
This book was EXCELLENT! It is a shorter read, but the family always pray and references to the Bible and to Jesus. I will start the next book soon.
Heroes are Christians written mainly for teenagers. Story displays God's power versus Satan's power. Good storyline to keep readers on edge of what is going to happen next.
Interesting little story. I found it to contain quite a lot of action too! Especially (view spoiler)[with the cobra at the start (hide spoiler)], the (view spoiler)[shaman at the middle (hide spoiler)] and the (view spoiler)[whole scene at the end with the key and the boulder. (hide spoiler)] There was a very large religious aspect to this story too. Not sure if the whole series is a Christian-based series meant to give morals, but I'm not particularly religious, so this frustrates me a little.
This is a fantastic book for someone who loves action and adventure. I loved from where the book was based off of. Revelations 9. I can’t wait to read the rest of the series.
Just as good as I remember it being when I was a kid. On to the next in the series.
Mom and dad chose 3 chapter books for Jacob to read as part of our family summer reading program.
He will then pick 3 chapter books of his choice.
He will need to read one of our picks and one of his picks each month June-August to earn 3 new books/audiobooks of his choice.
He picked this book to read first and is already hooked!
Jacob rated 5 stars..krb 5/30/17Ellie chose this book to read for our family summer reading program also..krb 6/9/17 She enjoyed this book and wants to read more from the author...krb 6/25/17
If you love action, adventure, mystery and Christian fiction, this is a perfect book for you to read.
With the knowledge that God is more powerful than anything, the Cooper family goes into the Dragon's Throat, determined to find out whatever is on the other side of the Door.
The Cooper family goes through many obstacles from within the Dragon's Throat to reach the Door.
You'll have to read the book to find out what is behind the Door and, who is this mysterious person and why, do they want the Cooper family to leave.I gave this book 5 stars because, I love action, adventure, mystery and Christian fiction.
However, I am uncomfortable with the character's using Jesus' name like a powerful amulet to ward off danger.While the tie-in to a certain passage of Scripture was intriguing, I don't think how it is interpreted by the story's plot matches the rest of Scripture.Which brings me to the main thing that left me dissatisfied:(view spoiler)[ The door opens to the Bottomless Pit full of demons.
And if it is God doing those things, in order to keep the door closed, why does He rescue the team and enable them to open the door?
The Cooper Kids Adventure Series, of which The Door in the Dragon's Throat is the first book, features Jay and Lila Cooper, teenage siblings who have adventures with their archaeologist father.
Some think that a magnificent treasure is behind the door, but as the Coopers learn more, they find it increasingly likely that it hides an unspeakable evil against which only their unwavering Christian faith may protect them.Although the writing is lacking and the story can be melodramatic and cheesy (they use an awful lot of explosives for archaeologists, and they have a huge tendency to tempt fate and put God to the test), the series features nonstop, adrenaline-filled stories with characters who rely on their faith to get them through difficulties.
Jay and Lila Cooper travel to Nepur with their archaeologist father to uncover the truth behind an ancient legend.
The people of Nepur fear a dark cavern called the Dragon’s Throat.
Deep under the earth the Coopers discover a bronze door that is said to bring death to any who tries to open it.
Is there really a massive treasure behind the Door in the Dragon’s Throat?
Or could there be a reason no one has ever managed to open it?This was an exciting read, jam packed with Indiana Jones-type adventure and a wonderful plot for a book this short.
I liked it! It was a christian book that my mom bought for me... It was a little scary. But, God won :)
I thought it was a little confusing.If I re-read it, it'll prolly make more sense. Other than that, it's good.
A little cheesier than I remember but an excellent book nonetheless. anyone young or old can enjoy this!
Liked it fast read interesting take on bible
If you like mystery books you should like this book. Frank E. Peretti’s The Door in the Dragon’s Throat intrigued me with the suspense of what was going to happen next. The theme of the book is that you should trust the people around you and never leave their side. This theme is very strong in these books because it really shows how the Cooper family interacts with each other. They are always caring for each other and are making sure that everyone is safe. The style of the book is mystery. I lik
The setting of this book is most likely not real in life because there is most likely not a place in the world where you can find a door that you can only open with a key and can’t be opened with explosives.
That is about the same in this book because there is a door that can only be opened by a key, but it doesn’t lead to anything good like in the Hobbit.I recommend this book to someone who likes to read mystery books.
So, if you like mystery and you don’t want to read a very hard and confusing book then I think that this series will be good for you.
I devoured his Cooper Kids Adventure series as a youngster and then moved on to his horror based adult fare as I became a teenager.
This is the first book in his Cooper Kids Adventure series.
It’s a great framework and a genuinely good plot with slowly building mystery leading up to a big finale.
It would make a great movie or something if you edited out a lot of the preachy monologues; that way you wouldn’t have to deal with the rather bad prose.
But it’s Peretti’s first novel; I’ll keep reading and see how he develops.
The old man with the curse kidnaps cooper’s children to get rid of his curse and to get rid of the people that are trying to open the door be cause that's why he's curse , he can't let people open the door .FALLING ACTION : The falling action is the parts of the book were the president dies and the kids locking up the door and helping the old man with his curse .
I read this book to my daughter who is 11 and my son who is 10.
My kids are really into action adventure and hate romance in books.
But it is hard to find older books for them that do not have romance and yet are full of suspense, action-adventure, and mystery.
After being frustrated by what I thought was a safe reading list, I found these books and was thrilled.
I bought this first book and it looked so good that I wanted to read it to my children.
Jay and Lila have traveled the world with their dad, who's an archeologist. The kids are essential members of the team, and it's fun to watch the family (and their three other crew members) working in close harmony. There's respect, trust, and protectiveness. In this particular adventure, the Coopers are investigating the legends surrounding the Door in the Dragon's Throat. And they're walking into a site where several other teams from different parts of the world have lost their lives. Action-packed and tightly paced. A lower middlegrade adventure with strong Christian themes.
I wanted to like this book (and series), but sadly I DNFed. The book beats you over the head with Christian principles. I believe that you can do almost anything through God and faith, but that won't always get you out of true physical danger. The other glaring issue with it is the children who are "trained" to deal with any danger, are terrified within minutes of their first appearance by a snake and are unable to move until their father comes and saves them.
This was our read along this month. I really enjoyed this, Peretti is my all time fAvorite author and this is the only series of his that I have yet to read, I believe. So I am very excited about the chance to share his writing with my children. This was very much an adventure story, but also a faith story. The mystery revolves around a prophecy that ties into Revelation. It's Biblical and dark, but still child appropriate. Looking forward to reading the next one.
This book is the first book in a series about two kids, Jay and Lila Cooper and their Father, Dr. Jake Cooper. Dr. Cooper is hired to find out how to open a huge door. But people have been known to die just by going down into the chasm where the Door is located, as new things take place and legends are revealed the Coopers must decide if they should open the Door in the Dragon's Throat.
Jay and Lila Cooper travel with their dad to Nepur. They go into a cavern called The Dragon's Throat. There, inside the cavern is a mysterious door. Everyone that has previously tried to open the door has died. The kids and their dad try to open the door. What will happen? Read this book to find out! I love this book! You have got to read it!
