https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/142529.Bend_Sinister
It was published at a time when, the Editor’s Preface tells us, Nabokov was acquiring a reputation among “discerning readers.” The title comes from heraldry meaning a leftward tilting band on a coat of arms (tilted like the backslash in an http address).The action takes place in a vaguely East European country that has elected a dictator.
As the evil begins, and “The Party of the Average Man” turns out to be a combination of Orwell and Kafka, good friends tell the professor that he needs to leave the county with his son while he still can.
The good philosophy professor is clueless at even imagining the evil that the dictator will bring to him and to the country.
(Nabokov didn't much like Orwell, and thought he was a hack).
Nabokov's is more that it's terminally stupid.
Even when the rulers of the State would actually prefer to get things right, they've fucked up their minds with nonsensical ideology to the point where they're no longer capable of coherent thought.
In the end, the Soviet Union's collapse seems to be have been, more than anything, due to the simple fact that nothing worked any more.
But things rapidly stop being so amusing, and the ending is very tragic indeed.I recall a quote from Viktor Korchnoi that I've always liked.
I felt immense guilt in doing so, as I know from various quotes and the preface to this novel that Nabokov was quite the priss about paying attention to every last detail of anything worth reading, of slowly and meditatively taking the words in as if every last one of them was a rare, pricey truffle.
Reading it felt like, I don't know, attempting to court a cold and distant lover?
I am having trouble getting my point across here, so my apologies if this review just reads like a ramble.
This allows many of Nabokov's typical quirks to be pinned on the narrators or the "themes," which makes sense of them in a normal literary context and allows one to imagine that Nabokov is behaving something like a ordinary author, deliberately choosing his material for effect.
I don't know why Nabokov insisted on putting that kind of thing in so many of his stories, but the more I read the less comfortable I am with theories that it all somehow makes sense in context, that the creepiness can be beaten back into the darkness with the sword of interpretation.
The influence of Mallarme can be found in the references to shade and shadows in the first page and chapter 17 (and elsewhere):“I wait the shade that you became.”Nabokov tells us that Adam Krug is “haunted” by the poem, and who are we to doubt it!The Sinistral Detail of a Monstrous JokeNo doubt, the alert reader will find many such “delicate markers” in the novel, if they’re prepared to search.
(“In due time what intelligence I have left will be dovetailed into some leisurely book.”)Some Fatuous HoaxKrug himself at one point asks ”if this is not some fatuous hoax?” And readers might well join him.In the tradition of “Finnegan’s Wake”, the novel begins and ends in the same (oblong) puddle.
Yeah, I don't have any idea what to say here.
So much beautiful writing that time and again I wanted to freeze the moment and savor against the lengthening shadows the sublime and playful wit that infuses this silky, slinky prose, the arch elegance drawn taut and set to run with the wind.
The man had a gift, an effortless, supple skill with the pen that is a pleasure to behold; too pleasurable perhaps—for as another reviewer astutely points out, it is written so beautifully as to be distracting.
“Nothing on earth really matters, there is nothing to fear, and death is but a question of style, a mere literary device, a musical resolution.” ― Vladimir Nabokov, Bend SinisterMy bookshelf is growing bigger every day with new fantastic fairytales of fascism, dynamic doggerels of dystopia.
There exists a banality of evil, like Hannah Arendt pointed out years ago in Eichmann in Jerusalem , but there is more often just an incompetence of evil, a stupidity of power that seems to baffle me every day as I read the news about police in NM doing anal probes because a man appeared to clench his butt or a man being arrested in OH for having a secret compartment in his car (nothing illegal in it, just something that could contain something bad.
Not a fan of Orwell's portrayal of oppressive regimes (although this could be some eventual jealousy on Vlad's part since his book came out two years prior and was not instantly hailed a prophetic classic like 1984), Nabokov goes for broke showing these tinkertoy political powers as nothing more than bilious mixtures of pettiness, stupidity and brute nature.
Nabokov plays mean-spirited god over his characters, pushing them about the page towards their awful fates; but in spite of all of his authorial bravado, a fraying blanket of tenderness swaddles the narrative, adding extra heft to the banal madness of the truly terrible final fifty pages.
It's a good book.
George Orwell was a master at his craft.But Bend Sinister is so amazing, so delicious and so emotionally deep that as good as 1984 is, Bend Sinister still manages to feel like "1984 done right." Nabokov uses the full force of his incredibly nuanced, unique command of language to paint a picture of a totalitarian regime.
His images are beautiful and stunning, and the story at the book's heart is disturbing and relevant to our time.I think this is one of his best works, right up there with Lolita, and it deserves to be read, particularly by fans of dystopian fiction and by aspiring writers.
I will concede that there are times in Bend Sinister where Nabokov does demonstrate a similar mastery - in fact these occasions are not infrequent- but just so much of the book is characterized by what can only be described as clunky and unwieldy writing - overwrought description, unbelievable dialogue, entire paragraphs poorly and clumsily phrased.
At times I felt like I was reading an early draft.The biggest problem with the writing - more so than the style itself - is the fact that at every opportunity it simply gets in the way.
Bend Sinister isn't any different.As Nabokov puts it: “People are made to live together, to do business with one another, to talk, to sing songs together, to meet in clubs and stores, and street corners […] and not to sit alone thinking dangerous thoughts.”When you start thinking dangerous thoughts, you find yourself suspended in the abyss that stands in between a glorious future and a horrifying past.
What is more important to solve: the 'outer' problem (space, time, matter, the unknown without) or the 'inner' one (life, thought, love, the unknown within) or again their point of contact (death)?
why should I comment...
on works of art?
Pieces of crap deserve comment.
Works on objective material -- books on history or sociology or entomology or prosody -- can be commented upon or corrected or endorsed...; but ...?-- well, that's just me, maybe.Anyway -- this is a truly magnificent book.
I can't say whether it is nearly as good as the books I haven't read yet..., obviously -- but that's neither there nor here.One point, though.Nabokov, of course, had a son -- and the emotional power of this book is inseparable from that fact.
(Lightning Review)The best is the unravel. You'll know it when you get to it. Hi-five to Vacca, he'll get this when he reads it. Revelation: all is not what it seems.Lightning review grade: sourdough
The petty bureaucrats and party members who were encounter in the novel are constantly seen as being incompetent, consistently bumbling or engaging in bawdy jokes or mindless fawning, indeed so idiotic is the state that it fails to realise that the key to gaining Adam's cooperation is not via capturing his friends, but by capturing his son, the sole thing Adam loves in the world, though, paradoxically the states inability to process emotions such as love mean it is unable to grasp this until Adam informs a secret agent of it.
Looks like I might be getting my first publishing credit from the MLA this winter for a new set of annotations for Bend Sinister. Will update accordingly!
You have written the most sensual things I've ever had the pleasure of reading often without the shedding of a single garment.And this, a novel of governing gone terribly wrong in the form of political dystopia wherein to achieve true human enlightenment everyone must be the same.
I read Nabokov's own words on his novels with great caution.
He dismisses and scorns all comparisons (1984?
(ha)) and comes across as so pretentious but in this regard I could not agree more to drop any comparison to 1984 whatsoever.
Quite a few times as I read this novel I felt stupid; for the life of me I couldn’t understand what Nabokov was on about, particularly in the passages pertaining to the work of the main character, the philosopher Krug.
Then at other times, particularly in the last quarter of the book, I was so engrossed by the narrative that I forgot where I was.
Back to Nabokov, while some passages were a bit trodden paths for me, possibly because of how much I already know about the daily absurdities of totalitarian regimes, I recognize this book as just another manifestation of its author’s genius.
Gave up on page 40. Hideous writing, hopelessly repellant characters, no apparent story.
''Blazon de bastard'' ( sau ''Bend sinister'') conține o lume distopică, în care veți regăsi metodele prin care se instalează totalitarismul într-o societate.
Veți afla (dacă nu ați trăit în România înainte de 1989) cum dictatura de inspirație sovietică și nazistă confiscă, modelează sau distruge individul liber-cugetător în scopul nivelării conștiințelor și al instaurării controlului total și definitiv asupra unei comunități.
O lume în care viața este posibilă doar în absența iubirii, uscat sufletește.
Sau dacă te lași purtat pe undele nebuniei în afara minții tale.O carte pe care am citit-o într-o stare de teribilă angoasă.

there's this section that is a re-reading of hamlet..."the author of hamlet...has created the tragedy of the masses and thus had founded the sovereignty of society over the individual." the hero is fortinbras...it is not the ghost of old hamlet, but fortinbras's old man...heh.updatefinished, 10:04 p.m. e.s.t. 3 jul 12, tuesday evening, a full moon...sill light out, dusk, sun must have set ten fifteen minutes ago...another ten fifteen before dark...good story.nabokov's introduction, something that seemed written by someone full-of-himself...is...what?
Bend Sinister, beyond the introduction, actually isn't as challenging to read as I expected.
I don't usually read for - or notice - particularly beautiful sentences, but Nabokov managed to write several which were striking without interrupting my reading experience.I didn't finish Bend Sinister in the best of circumstances.
For the first half of the book, I felt the plot almost served as a backdrop to the language and emotions, and I was surprised when the second half became a lot more focused on concrete happenings.
Now that Bend Sinister has served as an introduction, I'll definitely be putting more Nabokov on my reading list.
Boyd claims that Nabokov would spend 6 months preparing a novel in his head and only after it had settled and formed metaphysically would he put pen to paper.
Often during this transcription, the next cab would pull up to the rank and Vlad was already assimilating the following book.
This is the only way I can explain Bend Sinister.
Lolita had elbowed its brilliance into his head whilst he was pulling Bend Sinister together and he just had to get shot of it.
However, as Nabokov is the finest writer since God invented Jilly Cooper, there are still 6 star flashes here...just not enough.
I was actually reading Pale Fire when I decided to switch to Bend Sinister, mostly because I decided I would probably have to buy my own copy of Pale Fire because I was making too many notes and it would be easier to just put them in the book and that wouldn't be good to do with the library's copy.I learn all my new words from Nabokov.I had already written down tons of new words from Pale Fire, but I found myself writing quotes from Bend Sinister instead.
The playfulness is what makes Nabokov's work attractive.
This read much like a pretentious version of a dystopia, like Orwell if he were trying to please a collegiate, indie rock crowd.
But, then again, Nabokov is never afraid to shy away from writing something that would prove exactly how brilliant he was.
And he was smart; his capacity for learning and using language is impressive to say the least.
He's a brilliant writer, too.
One particular note: the revelation of the wife as a child walking back into the field with a moth in her hands was heart-breaking, brilliant, leaving the last paragraph that much more striking.
I don't know quite how he did that.
I had the same impression when reading Nabokov's short story masterpiece Symbols and Signs, which was able to mock fictional techniques while at the same time exploiting those techniques to move me.
I'm very happy to know people still read this book.
It's so extraordinary, and it requires a leap of faith to keep yourself reading.
It's not like any other book and that can be disorienting.
You have to surrender to it.And, I'm just glad there is a book in the world called "Bend Sinister."
As he points out in his introduction, Nabokov fills his book with so many obscure allusions, subtle themes/motifs, and playfully linguistic choices.
Most of these must be lost on most readers (myself included!), which is, perhaps, what promoted him to write the explanatory introduction.
It was interesting to read because it really gives the reader the sense that Nabokov is upset that his readers aren't brilliant enough to discern everything he has embedded in the novel.
He really is a genius.I loved the Hamlet allusions and wish there were more (at least more that I could pick up on...).
i can find in this book the particles that might have inspired pynchon and coover and others of that generation along the cusp of modern to post-modern american writing. big particles, smears of hilarity and chokes of sadness. what i can't feel is the balance of it all, though, to make it into a real story.
I'm talking about the fact that this book, though it gets better towards the end, is mostly a soup of incomprehensible nonsense that I cannot connect to the main thread of the story.To be fair to you, in your introduction to the edition that I borrowed, you discuss your silly plays on words that no one understands.
I enjoy Shakespeare as much as the next lad, but not at the expense of actual character development and a well-told story.As I said before, the book did pick up towards the end.
Professor Krug, here, as Kinbote in Pale Fire and the old lech in Lolita are characters no one else could have written.
Bend is Vlad's most overtly political book, though the political situation here more provides the context for the story than leads to any political statement.
The action of the story is driven by the rise of the Everyman Party to a position of State control in Krug's fictional country - a Soviet-styled farce.
