https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84737.Zeno_s_Conscience
Zeno Zeno Zeno where do I begin!, life in Trieste was not going good was it, and you really did have some problems didn't you my dear old fellow, not only were attempts to cure your smoking sickness an utter disaster!, after being introduced to his daughters by Giovanni Malfenti you would end up with both a lovely wife in Augusta but also a desirable mistress in Carla, and not have true feelings for either one of them.
And the reason?, you were in love with Augusta's sister Ada but she didn't feel the same way about you, and would end up being charmed by Guido while he played the violin and they would go on and tie the knot.
رواية طويلة يكتب فيها السيد زينو مذكراته في محاولة للتخلص من إدمان التدخينالكتابة كنوع من أنواع العلاج والتحليل النفسي بحسب نصيحة الطبيبيحكي عن مراحل حياته,عمله وعلاقاته, ويكشف فيها عن نفسه وأفكاره ويعترف بالأخطاء والأكاذيبيعرض سفيفو رؤية عامة وواقعية للحياة بجمالياتها وآلامها, بأسلوب جميل يجمع بين الجد والسخرية الترجمة سلسة لكن السرد متفاوت ما بين المتعة والملل أحيانا بسبب الإطالة
Triest in TriesteAn amazing tour de force of sustained irony, sending up everything from male feelings of superiority to psychoanalysis.It is, I suppose, never easy being a successful businessman; or for that matter even an unsuccessful one.
Dealing with the vagaries of commercial life on top of the usual quanta of personal tensions is bound to produce certain idiosyncrasies and, well, 'tics' in a person of taste and discernment.
Just look at Donald Trump.What better way to expiate these little personality defects than a sort of literary therapy?
Again, let Trump be our guide.Ah, if it were only that straightforward.
The outside world is reflected in his consciousness in bright and iridescent colours but this reflection is absolutely distorted.“Late one night I had come home and, rather than go to bed, I had entered my little study and turned on the gas.
It righted itself and stubbornly resumed its assiduous task.”Zeno is like this fly: he is tormented by both reality and imagination.
Best book ever about quitting smoking! Absolutely brilliant prose and excellent characters!
i never read something boring like this before doesn't have any subject or story on it just wasting your time
Zeno's Conscience is the last of the three novels written by Italo Svevo.
Joyce made a few years later one of the models of the character Leopold Bloom of his novel Ulysses.Zeno's Conscience is one of the first novels to talk about psychoanalysis.
Svevo even makes the spring of the book since it is under the command of his psychoanalyst that Zeno, the narrator, undertakes to write down (hum ...) a few years of his life.
Difficult to assign points to a book which I wanted to throw away most of the time I was reading it and ended up greatly admiring.
It is the narrative of the life of a man living in Trieste at the end of the 19th century and the tumultuous beginning of the 20th.
Other times, the action moves on quickly, out of the protagonist's control.
Italo Svevo has given us a character in his protagonist, Zeno, who is often erratic, detestable and self centred.
I greatly disliked this character.
The ending is at once surprising and consistent with the character.
However, what keeps you going in spite of this aimlessness is both the humor and the psychological insight into the characters.What makes this book so psychologically profound is that rather than just revealing the minutiae of how we behave, with precision that reminds one of the accomplishments of authors like Tolstoy or Chekhov, Svevo goes further and shows how these behaviors are concealed and interpreted by people.
He is a weak, weak character constantly thwarted by his lack of will and curious inclination to self-sabotage—in everything he attempts to do, he almost always achieves the opposite result, not because of outside influences but because of his very own actions.
Ofschoon ik bitter weinig werk heb ik toch altijd een grote eerbied behouden voor de rustdag, die het leven in kleine periodes onderverdeelt en het zodoende dragelijker maakt. In opdracht van zijn psychiater beschrijft Zeno Cosini, zakenman uit Triëst, zes episoden uit zijn leven. Hij analyseert “goudeerlijk” zijn handelingen, gevoelens en motieven. Zeno is kampioen in goede voornemens en kromme redeneringen. Al zijn plannen mislukken jammerlijk: hij slaagt er niet in te stoppen met roken, kies
Ofschoon ik bitter weinig werk heb ik toch altijd een grote eerbied behouden voor de rustdag, die het leven in kleine periodes onderverdeelt en het zodoende dragelijker maakt.
In opdracht van zijn psychiater beschrijft Zeno Cosini, zakenman uit Triëst, zes episoden uit zijn leven.
Al zijn plannen mislukken jammerlijk: hij slaagt er niet in te stoppen met roken, kiest onder vier zussen net diegene tot vrouw die hij niet wil, verliest door gecompliceerde leugens zijn minnares, drijft zijn zakenpartner tot wanhoop, volgt de verkeerde begrafenisstoet… Zeno is een antiheld, een schlemiel met sublieme zelfspot, een excentrieke hypochonder, maar hij vergoelijkt zijn fouten en zwakheden zó ontwapenend, dat je jezelf bij zowat elke pagina op een toegeeflijke glimlach betrapt.
Όχι πως ώρες – ώρες δεν είναι απολαυστικό αλλά ώρες – ώρες αισθανόμουν πως το έβγαλα από τη ναφθαλίνη για να αεριστεί λιγάκι κι όσο να το αέριζα αυτή η μυρωδιά του παλιού δεν έλεγε να φύγει.Ο Ζήνωνας, ο βασικός ήρωας, μιλάει σε πρώτο πρόσωπο σε όλο το βιβλίο και μας λέει εν ολίγοις τα βασικά της ζωής του.
Στην ουσία είναι οι σημειώσεις που έχει κρατήσει κατά τη διάρκεια της ψυχανάλυσης του που για κάποια στιγμή την παράτησε γιατί θεώρησε πως είχε θεραπευτεί και τις άφησε αμανάτι στον ψυχαναλυτή (που παρεπιπτόντως δεν εμφανίζεται πουθενά).
If anything, I suppose this book is the victim of its own reputation.
I've heard it praised very highly to me as an 'Italian Proust', which is an unfairly high reputation to live up to.Not to say that the book is bad.
These chapters are masterpieces of emotional development, and are likely the things which made his reputation.
The narrator is not just a comic figure, but one which accurately represents the half-truths and deflections which people tell in order to preserve their egos.
They seem to lack the mastery of emotional detail which Svevo wields in the rest of the book.
زنو هیچ وجدانی ندارد---من سیگاری نیستم و اگر بخواهم یکی از دوستانم را از شر سیگار راحت کنم یک جلد کتاب وجدان زنو به او هدیه میدهم.
بهترین انگیزه برای ترک را نه یک پزشک، نه یک روانشناس و نه یک فرد سیگاری که موفق به ترک شده، بلکه یک تاجر پرمشغله میانسال اهل تریست نوشته است.
البته کسی که خودش نتوانست سیگار را ترک کند.
نام او ایتوره اشمیتز است که با نام ادبی ایتالو اسووو کتاب وجدان زنو را که سومین و آخرین رمانش بوده به رشته تحریر درآورده است.
کتابی که خیلیها آن را شاهکاری کمیک در ردیف دون کیشوت قرار
بزرگترین پرسش فروید این است زنان چه می‌خواهند؟ زنو یکی از بهترین پاسخ‌ها را در آستین دارد: برای مردان سخت است که درک کنند زنان چه می‌خواهند چون گهگاه خود زنان هم نمی‌دانند!ماجرای چاپ کتاب هم جالب است.
عجیب است که چنین شاهکاری در ایران مهجور مانده.اسووو پنج سال بعد از موفقیت رمانش در تصادف اتومبیل از دنیا رفت و در آخرین نفس‌هایش تقاضای آخرین سیگار را کرد!
زندگی در وجدان زنو همچنان یک معمای غیرقال حل باقی مانده است و اسووو به ناامیدی ما می‌خندد و از نمایش خودش لذت می‌برد، و البته، ما هم وقتی این رمان را می‌خوانیم همچین حسی داریم: شوخ‌طبعی در ناامیدی!
Uma vida normal, de um homem com muitos defeitos e poucas qualidades: é egoísta; hipocondríaco; não tem muito interesse em estudar, ou trabalhar; casa com uma mulher que não ama e é-lhe infiel a vida inteira; é pouco afectuoso com a família, chegando a aborrecer-se com o choro dos filhos e com a doença do pai.
Obriga-nos a pensar sobre o sentido da vida, para a qual não há fórmulas para sermos felizes, nem instruções de psicanalistas que nos salvem dos nossos defeitos e vícios."A vida assemelha-se um pouco a uma enfermidade: também procede por crises e por depressões.
Okuması oldukça eğlenceli, şaşkınlıktan titretecek kadar da gerçekçi ruh çözümlemelerine sahip bir hastalık romanı. Büyük bir kısmı kamu spotu tadındaki Sigara Tiryakiliği ve Psikanaliz gibi iki müthiş bölüm arasında sıkışıp kalmış sanki. Bu sıkışıklık sıkıcı olmasından değil aksine Zeno'nun her seferinde yüzsüzlüğe varan bir rahatlıkla hareket etmesi, aralara bırakılan okurken nabız yükselten aforizmaların, inanılmaz ruhsal çözümlemelerin oluşturduğu tekdüzelikten kaynaklanıyor. Bu da Zeno'nun hastalığı gibi sağa sola savrulup hiçbir derde derman olmadan esasında harika bir okuma deneyimi sunuyor. Bana kalırsa Zeno'nun içeceği son sigara gibi sürekli ertelenmemeli, Fethi Naci'nin dediği gibi iki eliniz kanda dahi olsa okunmalı.
[2,5*]Κατηγορία βιβλίου “twas ok”.Αν και η ιδέα να βάλει κάποιος ως πρωταγωνιστή έναν μανιακό καπνιστή που αυτοψυχαναλύεται (ενώ παρατάει την ψυχανάλυση γιατί θεωρεί ότι θεραπεύτηκε), που νομίζει ότι είναι πετυχημένος επιχειρηματίας (εντερπρενέρ θα τον λέγαμε το σωτήριο έτος 2018) και νομίζει ότι είναι ένας ελεύθερος άνθρωπος(μαντέψτε, δεν είναι) στα κατάλληλα χέρια θα μπορούσε να δώσει ένα πολύ καλό αποτέλεσμα, εδώ δεν έγινε κάτι τέτοιο.Είχε μερικές φιλοσοφικές προεκτάσεις και γέλασα κάποιες φορές, δε θα το αρνηθώ, αλλά όχι τόσες ώστε να πω ότι μιλάμε για ένα καυστικό βιβλίο.
These chapters, about his mistress and his business with his brother-in-law (and also a much shorter one about psychoanalysis) didn't keep my eyes open in the wee hours- nor did they inspire me to reach for Svevo immediately upon waking, which is often the case with books I am reading.
Thus begins a hilarious scene of compulsion and envy as Guido and the family sit, eyes closed and on the edges of their seats as the "supernatural" foot of Zeno plays the part of Guido's deceased relative.What am I getting at in this review...?!
My point: Zeno is an enjoyable character to read...
Εθιστικό και απολαυστικότατο!https://pepperlines.blogspot.gr/2018/...
This method, per the therapist, would allow the protagonist, his patient, to learn about his stated current condition through introspection of his past.Zeno’s Conscience by Italo Svevo is yet another story about man and his thoughts about life and his world during an author’s period.
The futility and impotence of a person or the entire collection of them to affect change in their character and in their world during their visit here, regardless of the imperative, is reiterated, despite what the majority (naysayers) will always believe.And that is the beauty of books (and the problem of films), the unique conference between author and reader without the intrusion of another's perspective.
Zeno admits, or lies, at the end of the novel that many of the events of his personal account have been fabricated, embellished, omitted, or otherwise altered, but asserts that they have the same colors, scents, sense of reality as living things, as real memories; that he knows they are fabulous is irrelevant because the reality he has assigned them makes them as close to reality as the blurry shades and shapes of his own kaleidoscopic memories.
One side of me sees this autobiographical novel as a vivid, dense and well written slice of life, but the other side sees it as a rambling and convoluted novel centered around a self-important narcissist...Just now the latter seems to clarify my current feelings towards this novel, but I get the feeling I will come back to this when I'm older, simply because it is a novel about one man's recollections of his life. Again, however, Italo Svevo writes some fine sentences.
Zeno è tutti noi. E Svevo non è mai stato così grande. Uno dei grandi romanzi italiani di sempre, uno dei pochi. Immagino che lo leggerò una quarta volta, è piacere puro.
Ho impiegato quasi due mesi per leggere questo libro.
Mai avevo abbandonato la lettura di un libro per poi riprenderla a tappe successive.
E' la noia il minimo comun denominatore del romanzo.
Eppure è un classico, è il libro che prima o poi leggiamo tutti.
E' senza dubbio un opera molto curata, l'autore aveva un particolare scopo e le pagine ne sono pregne.
Risulta difficile evincere un particolare insegnamento proprio a causa della noia e della scarsa voglia di continuare la storia.
Nonostante tutto, arrivato stoicamente alla fine sono riuscito, anche grazie al finale inaspettato, ad apprezzare questo romanzo.
Prima di leggere Senilità però, ci penserò due volte!
Di alcuni animali non sappiamo il progresso, ma ci sarà stato e non avrà mai leso la loro salute.Ma l’occhialuto uomo, invece, inventa gli ordigni fuori del suo corpo e se c’è stata salute e nobiltà in chi li inventò, quasi sempre manca in chi li usa.
Ed un altro uomo fatto anche lui come tutti gli altri, ma degli altri un po’ più ammalato, ruberà tale esplosivo e s’arrampicherà al centro della terra per porlo nel punto ove il suo effetto potrà essere il massimo.Ci sarà un’esplosione enorme che nessuno udrà e la terra ritornata alla forma di nebulosa errerà nei cieli priva di parassiti e di malattie."
Will admit that it was also a novel that I nearly put aside because I couldn't quite "gel" with Zeno, his thoughts, various ailments, neurotic disposition or his indecisiveness to say the least.
Zeno was an unreliable narrator, however it was his story to tell and to psychoanalyse.Having said that Zeno did grow on me and I quite enjoyed reading his thoughts and seeing life through Zeno's eyes.Thoroughly enjoyed the foreword by Elizabeth Hardwick.
Having delved into James Joyce last year I was surprised and intrigued to find that Joyce and the author were well known to each other and that Joyce had been instrumental in promoting this novel at the time.Well worth a look at.
But the novel really wasn’t about Zeno’s struggle for quitting smoking or the levels for what any addiction provides in methodically ruining one’s life.
The long and fitfully boring section in the last half of the book titled The Story of a Business Partnership provides ample reason to question the validity of Joyce’s claims for the book being a masterpiece.
When presented with charm and wit and good nature, even the most despicable of characters holds some redemptive spirit in which to embrace and love his fault-filled humanity.
Ho letto La Coscienza di Zeno in italiano un decennio fa.
Può essere il miglior libro su un fumatore compulsivo, e mi ha fatto venire voglia di visitare Trieste.
Naturalmente, Joyce imparato molto, e accreditato Svevo.
Joyce insegnava inglese e italiano in fondo alla strada da Svevo a Trieste; Joyce aveva provato meglio italiano che su English - secondo gli esaminatori italiani.I read The Conscience of Zeno in Italian a decade ago.
Of course, Joyce learned a lot, and credited Svevo.
Joyce taught English and Italian just down the street from Svevo in Trieste; Joyce had tested better on Italian than Inglese - according Italians examiners.
لكن هكتور ما إن أتقن الألمانية – إلى جانب إتقانه للفرنسية، والإيطالية من قبل – حتى انكبّ على قراءة غوته وشيلر وأدباء القارة وفلاسفتها، وأهمل دراسته التجارية ليكتب القصص القصيرة والمسرحيات التي لم يكمل معظمها.
في عام 1906 يرغب سفيفو بتحسين لغته الانكليزية، فيتعرف على الكاتب الايرلندي جيمس جويس الذي يدرّس اللغة الانكليزية في مدينة تريستا حينذاك.
وتمكّن الكاتب من رصد هذه الإشكاليات الأخلاقية التي رافقت التحولات الجذرية في المجتمع الإيطالي، والتغير الذي طرأ عليه إبان انتقاله إلى الحقبة الصناعية من حيث القيم والمبادئ المدنية.ولابدّ أنه قرأ واقعه الشخصي ليتنبأ بالاضطرابات القادمة، حيث كان والده نمساوياً وأمّه إيطالية؛ فهو يعتبر الألمانية والإيطالية لغتيه الأم، واختار لنفسه اللقب "إيتالو سفيفو" بناء على ذلك: "إيتالو" تعني (إيطالي)، و"سفيفو" تعني (جرماني).

Recommendations from Jameses - Joyce and Woods - coupled with its lengthiness, led me to believe this book would be a heavy, somber, read.
In some ways, the book this reminded me of most was Stoner, in its muted, careful speech, meticulously conveying the reader into the mind of its protagonist, whose veritude and comfortable presence is tangible in the book's prose.
