https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/216048.Thank_You_Mr_Falker
The image that truly stood out the most for me was the image of Trisha crying after the kids started teasing her and Patricia Polacco had effectively illustrated Trisha’s face being slightly red and the way she covers her mouth to hide her sadness made this a truly emotional image.Overall, “Thank you, Mr. Falker” is truly one of the most inspirational children’s books about children who have problems learning how to read that children will easily relate to.
I hope that every teacher and tutor and parent reads this book.
Oh, if/when I do any more tutoring I’ll definitely use this book.
I had no difficulty learning to read, although I did not learn until I was taught; I wasn’t a reading prodigy, but I’ve known many kids who have had various challenges learning to read.This is Patricia Polacco’s story about herself as a young girl and how it was (finally in fifth grade) a particularly kind and able teacher who got her the help she needed and helped her learn to read.
Of her books that I’ve read so far, it’s my favorite.
Highly recommended!***SPOILERS***Tricia is so eager to learn to read, her fabulous and wise grandparents show her how sweet and special reading--and the knowledge gained from books--can be.
With his guidance, Tricia learns that she is NOT stupid--and has, in fact, been remarkably brave and smart, in her own way, to make it through school and fool so many teachers to pass grades without knowing how to read.
Mr. Falker changed Tricia's life and opened the world of reading to her, and she became so enchanted with words and stories that she ended up writing them for children.
This book is dedicated to the real-life Mr. Falker with her abundant thanks.
Beautiful children's book.
It's the true story of how this award-winning author-illustrator learned to read.
The book is a tribute to Mr. Falker, her teacher -- the one who FINALLY took the time to help a persecuted little Patricia overcome her dyslexia (or whatever it was that caused such tremendous reading difficulties).
The book is also a tribute to Patricia's grandfather, who encouraged her to be just like a bee, and chase after knowledge through the pages of a book.
Heartless little horrors.I struggled with reading, too.Some holiday books by this children's author: Christmas Tapestry and Rechenka's Eggs
Lovely true story about a girl who struggles to learn to read and the teacher who finally helps her.
My youngest sister didn't learn to read until she was ten, and I thank the good Lord every time I read something like this that she wasn't in school.
As a home schooler, I think it was just kind of disappointing for her that she didn't learn when her older sisters had, but had she been in school, I think she would have had a miserable time.
I discovered this book just today and cried like a baby on the last couple of pages. I was lucky; reading came early and easy to me, but this child's struggle to read could be applied to any struggle and most readers will quickly identify and relate. The illustrations of the anguish of this child and the tribute to the teacher who finally identified the dyslexia are heart-breaking and heart-warming at the same time. A must-read for every human.
This book is so beautiful I don't feel the slightest bit silly sitting here with tears running down my face at the public library.
I watched and listened to this story on storyline online, a website where children's books are read by actors.
Having read this book previously and loved it, I was curious to see if I would enjoy the audio/visual version.
It held up pretty nicely.
The pacing was even and not too slow, it was read with expression and the captions would be helpful for beginning readers.
It was about 16 minutes long and showed the illustrations from most of the pages.
I saved the website's address to use for the future - the selection isn't too large, but the quality is nice.
A delightful biographical book about Patricia, who was a born artist, but felt she was stupid because she had trouble reading. Mr Falker, a sensitive teacher realized he problem and he worked with her until she could read. Now Patricia is the author and illustrator af many beautiful picture books. If you aren't familiar with them, take a look at some of them.
Patricia Polacco truly bares all by writing about herself in the story titled Thank you, Mr. Falker.
The story is about a young girl, Trisha (Patricia Polacco) whom was blessed with the talent for drawing beautiful pictures yet struggled with learning how to read though she desperately wants to, and how her grandparents share with Trisha how sweet reading is as well as the knowledge that one gains from reading.
It isn't until Trisha reaches fifth grade and the new teacher...the sweet, gentle, kind Mr. Falker becomes her teacher and changes her life forever.
Another inspiring story by Patricia Polacco.
In Thank you, Mr. Falker (1998) renowned author and illustrator, Patricia Polacco, draws heavily from her own experience as a child who struggled to read.
The reader meets Trisha, the protagonist, in one of the earliest scenes in her reading life—those fleeting moments between wanting to read, not knowing how to read, and believing that, as the narrator says, “the promise to read was at last hers… [that] soon she was going to learn to read” (Polacco, 1998, n.p.).
However, we soon find out that unlike drawing, reading does not come easy to Trisha.
As a teacher of children with special needs since the late 1970s, I have to say that I loved this book.
The story of a little girl who is so excited to learn how to read, and who, when the time comes, just cannot put the sounds and letters together, exemplify the struggles so many children deal with on a daily basis.
What hasn't changed is the necessity for teachers to be sensitive and caring to the needs of their students, and to search for their strengths as well as dealing with their weaknesses.
Tricia, a struggling student, has always had a difficult time reading.
Once Tricia is in fifth grad her family moves to California, where her life changes when she meets her amazing teacher, Mr. Falker.
Being a teacher I dream to one day have the type of impact on a student the way Mr. Falker did on Tricia.
This inspiring story brings up wonderful opportunities for all types of students to make personal connections.
This story brings up great topics with student about how crucial it is to respect the way each of us individually learns.
We read this story together and I was so choked up by the end, I couldn't even finish it - our oldest read the last few sentences to us.
Our girls really liked the story too; our oldest said that her Second grade teacher had read her this story and was choked up at the end, too!notable quotes - I love the quote from her Grandfather, as he pours honey on the book and introduces Trisha into the world of reading:"The honey is sweet, and so is knowledge, but knowledge is like the bee that made that sweet honey, you have to chase it through the pages of a book!"
Based on the author/illustrator's own experiences as a child, this picture book is a loving tribute to the patience of teachers who try to meet the needs of all their students.
The main character loved books and words as a child, and she can't wait to read them for herself, something heralded when her grandmother spoons out honey on the top of a book and describes the sweetness of knowledge.
Although some might consider this title to be text-heavy, others will recognize their own struggles or the struggles of their students in its pages and rejoice that Mr. Falker took the time to help Tricia.
Thank You, Mr. Falker is about a girl named Trisha who has just moved to a new place.
They also unveil that Trisha has dyslexia, which is why she had all that trouble in the first place.
This book is written from an insider's perspective, because Trisha is actually the author as a young girl, Patricia Polacco.
The very issue itself of not being able to read well out loud is something that I believe this age group can identify with.
Whether or not they have dyslexia, this is an issue that almost everyone can identify with.
Author: Patricia PolaccoPublisher and Date: Philomel Books, 1998Summary: Trisha loves stories but when she gets to first grade she realizes reading isn’t so easy.
With help from Mr. Falker after school, Trisha finally learns how to read.
More importantly, students who have a hard time in school can relate to Trisha and see how she did not give up even when things were hard.
Polacco wrote a heartfelt story about a child who overcomes her problem in school.
This is a great book to read to students because Polacco touches on how someone’s actions and words can make or break a person.
Trisha is a student who struggles greatly with reading fluently, but is an amazing artist.
None of her teachers knew how to train Trisha to read until she reached the fifth grade and was in Mr. Falker's class.
This patient man, through creative means, teaches Trisha how to read and changes her life forever.
This excellent book not only teaches to never give up on your dreams, but it also teaches kids how difficult life is with a reading disability.
Trisha gets bullied and made fun of because she cannot read as well as her peers do.
This is a powerful book explaining how children develop their reading and math skills at different paces.
The girl in this book struggles with reading, writing, math, and other subjects in school.
She goes through many years of her life being teased by other students and being ignored by her teachers.
Once she meets Mr. Falker, her world is changed.
This book is powerful to me because it explains really well how the kids feel when they are falling behind in school.
They start to hate going to school and feel very down on themselves.
With the right teacher, all of that can change.
I had heard about the "honey on a book" part of this story before reading it, and the librarian in me thought, "No!
Don't encourage people to put sticky honey on a book!
Enough sticky things get on books without a cute story to encourage it." But at least the story makes it clear that they are putting honey on their own book and not a library book!
It's a wonderful tribute to teachers and the impact they can have on the lives of their students.
Do you have a teacher who affected your life?
Or, even better, write a book about your experience!

This autobiographical story is about Patricia Polacco, her teacher Mr. Falker, and how he identified her dyslexia and worked with her to improve her reading skills.
The pictures clearly capture a young girl's frustration and embarrassment at the beginning...and her growing confidence and accomplishment at the end.
The words convey the author's honest voice.
It is especially triumphant at the end when the reader learns that the author of this very childrens book (and many others) had trouble reading when she was a student.
It is hard to imagine any child not relating to this wonderful book--especially those who, like the author, struggle to read.
We all want to be "that" teacher, the one who makes a difference in a child's life by supporting them through learning.
We all want to be a Mr. Falker.
Trisha never learned to read, and now that she is in fifth-grade, it has become a bigger problem than ever.
When new teacher, Mr. Falker, takes over her class, he uncovers her secret and helps her overcome her challenge to become a reader.
This story is a reminder that children fall through the cracks without the dedication of good, perceptive teachers who are willing to put in the effort to help their students succeed.
You can't lose with Patricia Polacco! What an incredible story of the power of teacher and the power of being able to access knowledge. Mr. Falker is the kind of teacher I want to be. He truly cares about his students and notices them as individuals, with real struggles. He helps a young student become a confident reader by showing her that she has value and strength. An uplifting story, struggles that many people can relate to.
Read it at school for the beginning of a writing project. I get all the amazing reviews - teachers at school LOVE this book. I had never read it. It was sweet, a little sappy, teaches a great lesson. I get it... Just not going to cry my way through as so many others seemed to have done.And was behind on my reading challenge. This is a book - I read it. Put it on the board!
A crowd pleaser for later elementary school. This book is also near and dear to my heart as I was a slow reader in elementry school. I always warn whom ever I am reading it to that I always cry at the end of this book, no matter how many times I read it.
The real-life story of a girl who grew up in a bookish family, only to find that she could not learn to read. It took a special teacher to see that she wasn't dumb, or not interested, she had severe dyslexia. Her triumph when she could finally read was amazing. And she became an author!
Patricia Polacco writes about such meaningful real-life experiences. We all have strengths and challenges. Work hard and never give up!
When Trisha was at the age where she was learning to read, her grandfather poured honey on a book and said "“Honey is sweet, and so is knowledge, but knowledge is like the bee that made that sweet honey, you have to chase it through the pages of a book".
Poloacco sets up the story with the grandfather pouring the honey on the book, and with letting the reader know that Trisha is very eager to learn how to read.
When Trisha runs home to pour the honey on the book, it really brings the whole book together, and comes full circle, which left me very satisfied with the ending of the story.
In Thank You, Mr. Falker, Trisha is introduced to the reader as a five year old girl who loves books. Whether her mother was reading them to her, or her brother, or her grandma, Trisha loved listening to the stories unfold as the pages were turned. She anticipated starting kindergarten, most excited about learning to read. Yet as kindergarten, and then first grade, and then second grade flew by, Trisha still could not read. Every time she looked at a book, she was met with “wiggling shapes”, a
In Thank You, Mr. Falker, Trisha is introduced to the reader as a five year old girl who loves books.
In 5th grade, Trisha had a new teacher — Mr. Falker, who was tall and handsome, and praised Trisha for her exceptional drawings, even calling her talented.
As Trisha enters school and becomes more and more isolated, the illustrations change, becoming more muted and dark, representing the emotions of desperation, pain, and anguish.
These stars are repeated once again when Trisha picks up her new book at the end of the story, signaling the similarities between both striking moments.
