https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/49465.Those_Who_Save_Us
This was the best debut novel I ever wrote!
Or, as if the struggle to write was too obvious: here are only a few of my complaints:* Mixed metaphors "The arctic are is like shards of glass in the lungs; it shakes Trudy to the bones until they threaten to snap." p.2There were many of these inarticulate descriptions of things I could tell would have been beautiful in the hands of a more adept writer.* Unrealistic and cliched behavior You know how in bad movies the main character will be talking to someone and then will suddenly stop, mid-sentence, and stare out into space because he is so overcome with his own internal emotional trauma that something he has just said or seen or heard or thought has triggered an inner storm that renders him paralyzed and it's not for at least a minute until the person the main character is with taps him on the shoulder and says, "Hey. Are you all right?" And the main character shakes his head and blinks his eyes several times and stutters, "Oh. Oh no.
It shows us why many people didn't do anything to stop those doing wrong.The book starts a little slow, and at first I wasn't too partial to the jumping back and forth between Trudy in present day America to Anna back in war torn Germany, but after the first few chapters/sections of it, I grew used to it and actually preferred it.
I found all the characters in this book to be tiresome and two-dimensional, often behaving unrealistically.Like Trudy, the woman who dresses as if she's in mourning for 50 years because she thinks she has a Nazi father.Or Max, the kindest and quietest soul, except when with no warning he pounces on the 19 year old Anna for rough sex without seeking consent, impregnating her with no regard to how her tyrannical Nazi father will react.And then Anna all but forgets about Max once she begins seeing the Officer.
She keeps the reader from dwelling too much on the ugliness of the past by balancing it with the hopeful tone of the present as well as the mystery surrounding Trudy's search for the truth.
This book describes how many, if not most, were just trying to survive during difficult times.
However others truly believed in what was happening which is called patriotism regardless the right or wrong of it.
Contrary to my book club I do not believe Anna fell in love with the Oberstrumfuhrer.
I believe she was a victim of the trauma caused by her dependency on him for survival for her daughter Trudie and herself.
The Oberstrumfuhrer was like her father in many ways, selfish, egotistical and corrupt.
The contemporary story was as compelling as the historical narrative which is set in Nazi Germany and focuses on the reaction of the German people to the brutality and horror of that war.
In contrast, I felt myself equally sympathizing and understanding why Anna was compelled to keep her own war secrets hidden.
One of my favorite parts of the book is Anna telling Trudy that some pain from that time period cannot be shared with one another.
However, this shifted when the story focused more on Anna and her pain just seemed to drip from the pages.
While visiting the Holocaust Museum in Washington, DC, one encounters many horrifying exhibits.
There are happy families posing for group photos, babies with their toothless grins, little girls with pigtails, boys flying kites, sober individual shots for graduations, little men at their Bar Mitzvahs,loving couples gazing into eachother's eyes - all people doing normal things, living their lives.
Because of the Holocaust, many of us have lost family, or our friends have, or they are survivors.
Blum has clearly conveyed the frustrations and pain of her characters.**********************************************************ADDENDUMFor another view of the hopelessness of life for German citizens read:The Plum Tree.
This book tells the story of one German mother and what she must endure in order to protect her daughter.
This book also helped me better understand certain German characteristics and ways of life.The other part of the book deals with the daughter of this German mother and how she must live with the silence and the not knowing about her true heritage, who's her father, who were all these people she remembers, etc.
What defines a hero?
Sometimes heroes are not who you think they are and what they do may not seem courageous to some, but for others, it's the world.
It was excruciatingly difficult....but the end was beautiful, and that saved the book for me.
One friend says in her review that the main character, Anna, a gentile German, was both naïve and uninformed when the story opens.
(view spoiler)[I never even felt love grow between Anna and Max. Another example: Matilda too quickly gave in to Anna's request to take part in the resistance.
Anna supposedly remained the Nazi officer's whore to save the life of her child, Trudy.
Should some books be excruciatingly difficult to read?
Do you read a book for its ending?
Without giving too much away, this book is a bit grittier than I think some people are used to, even with books that tell a story about the Holocaust/WWII.
And while I agree that a lot of them knew more about what was going on than then let on...
Well, never is that more apparent than when a war is going on.
Not every story is supposed to make you feel warm and fuzzy.
Not every book is supposed to be comfortable to read.
This is a brilliant story about crossing the line of what you see as right and wrong to keep yourself alive.
While on the surface it is about German people's experiences during WWII, it is about so much more, including the psychological effects of abuse and humiliation.
My favorite line comes near the end when Anna's husband asks her if she loved the SS officer.
She recognizes how we "come to love those who save us, or rather those who shame us." That's a pretty intense concept.My only complaint is that the character of Trudy is not very well developed, and the parts that take place in the present aren't nearly as gripping or well written as the parts about Anna during WWII.
This was a very well written book about Nazi Germany told from the perspective of non-Jews who survived the war.
I had never really considered what was happening to the non-Jews in Germany during that time, so in this regard I found it to be very educational.
The book is told from the points of view of Anna, a mother, and Trudy, her very young daughter who both endured more than is imaginable a the hands of the Nazis.
Anna's story is revealed in flashbacks while Trudy's is told in the present day from America.
I can't help but feel that reading this book was akin to watching Schindler's List.
When her father turns him over to the Gestapo, Anna leaves and lives and works with a woman who works with the Resistance Movement.
Anna, pregnant and alone, is ultimately left with her own resources and determination to survive and protect her infant daughter.
She does this by becoming the mistress of an SS officer after the woman she lives with and works for is executed for being a traitor.My favorite thing about this was the recurring weaving of the title/theme throughout the many different story lines.
The daughter and her step father and ultimately her own adult lover, a Jew. What is the price of survival?
It is another Holocaust memoir type story but this time I am not sure exactly the point of the whole thing.
I think the story was way too long; it may have been a much more poignant short story.
I know too that we will never know how we would react to such horror...I am not judging Anna and her actions; just the author's long, tedious way of telling her story.
The juxtaposition of Trudy's story running through the book made it more readable and I think there should have been more focus on that character.
A heart-wrenching story of one mother's unfathomable choices and sacrifices in order protect her child. More than a decade after publication, this book remains the gold standard for novels set during the Second World War. If you have not read it, you must.
On the crowded shelf of WWII novels, Those Who Save Us stands out. Blum's achievement is singular; she writes with power and the story is fresh and utterly credible. I'm in awe.
It is an amazing blend of the German/Jewish experience during WWII, at least from an outsider's point of view, which is how the book is set up.
Trudy, the main character, is a peripheral part of the experience in that she was only 3 when she left Germany, and yet she is so integral to the telling of her mother's story, which is also her story.
It is a book that should be dedicated to those who make the best possible decisions at the time, with the information they have available, and live for the rest of their lives with the consequences of those decisions.
An absolutely well-written book!
But the questions about her past will not be silenced, and a research project to record interviews with German survivors of the war forces Trudy to confront her past.The novel is told in dual timelines: the adult Trudy in 1990s Minnesota, and her mother, Anna, as a young woman in war-torn Germany (1941-1944).
I was nearly as frustrated by Anna’s obstinate silence as Trudy was.
Learning her story, what she felt forced to do to save her child (and herself) gave me some understanding into her character, her motives, her fears, and her reluctance to examine the past.
The book did redeem itself when Trudy found out through an interview about what had really happened and who her father truly was, but still did nothing to mend the rift of silence and misunderstanding with her mother which was quite disappointing.
I was glad the author at least included what had happened to Max at the very end of the book.
While I do realize the author wanted to focus on the German women's perspective and role in the war, I wish the story had touched a little more on Max's story throughout the book.
I'm only about 50 pages into this book, and already I have mixed feelings about it--not because of the subject matter, but because of the writing.
We'll see......So far the writing includes forced metaphors, awkward dialogue, and a preoccupation with bodily functions and related substances.
As I believe other reviewers have noted, this seems to be a great idea for a book in the hands of a writer who's just not up to it.
It has improved, I'll give it that.Final review: Good topic, but this book is just awful.
This is a sadly inelegant book that, given the subject matter, could have been a whole lot better.
Half of the book is told through the POV of the mother, Anna, where the book flashes back often to her as a young woman enduring all sorts of horrors.
The modern day story is told only through the POV of her daughter, Trudy, who is in America and makes her living as a professor of history.The daughter is frustrated with her mother and never had a close relationship with the woman.
Really, this is a book that’s hard to forget, even if part of me would like to with details.The mother fascinated me.
By the end of the story I did like Anna and Trudy both.
Anna was a young woman in Germany during World War II.
She struggled to provide for her young daughter as the danger increased and food grew scarcer.
Fifty years later and a continent away, her daughter, Trudy, now a professor of German history, struggles with the vague memories she has of that time and the true nature of her background.
Anna refuses to speak of those years, so Trudy embarks on an interview project, interviewing Germans who lived through the war in an effort to come to grips with a past that she barely remembers.
This book gives an entirely different perspective on WWII in Germany.
Unlike so many of the books that are written about Germans who took great risk to help many Jews, this book focus on a woman who took some risk, but was probably more the norm: Someone who did what she had to do to survive.
It also explores the aftermath of the holocaust from a German survivor perspective rather than a Jewish perspective while remaining conscious that the Jewish and other minorities were the ultimate victims.In general I enjoy any book that gives me a fresh perspective on how life is (or was) in a time or culture completely foriegn to my own.
Oh my. This was so good. I am not one for books about the Holocaust or for going back in forth in time. However, the writing, the characters, the story line and it's progression was spot on. What Anna went through to live and protect her daughter was remarkable. The author wove both the mother's and daughter 's experiences into an exquisite tapestry. The impact on each life is deep. Wow. This book is one of the best I've read on a while. Highly recommend.
The story begins before the war as the protagonist, Anna Brandt, a young Aryan woman and daughter, is destined to cater to her widowed father’s whims until he finds a suitor for her.
After the war and the Jewish roundup begins, she hides Max in a concealed space in her father’s home.
Anna runs from home, pregnant with Max’s child, and is taken in by a local baker, Mathilde Staudt, a woman who bakes bread for the Nazi officers’ mess.
The novel, Those Who Save Us, title and story, describes what was done by Anna to survive terror, cold and hunger.
The story angle is unique and the writing was beautiful.
There have been many books written about the Holocaust, but I don’t think that many have been written from the viewpoint of a German woman who lived through WWII as the enemy.
The author takes you back and forth between Anna’s story during the war and Trudy’s, her daughter, all grown up and trying to figure out why Anna has not revealed her secret past and who Trudy’s father is.
I thought the author did a fantastic job linking the two eras and stories together.
It made this book so much more remarkable.
“…we come to love those who save us.
For although Anna does believe it is true, the word that stuck in her throat was not save but shame.”When I read the jacket for this book I could never have guessed the outcome that awaited me at the end of this book.
I praise the author for her ability to bring such detail and complexity into these characters.
Those who save us/shame us really could be a header for each of the complex relationships we live vicariously through the characters in this book.
As a fiction addict, I love the art of a good, perfectly delivered character study.
I would recommend this book to everyone!
I loved it!
Dass sie das Kind eines Nazis ist, hat Trudy ihr Leben lang gequält und sie kann nicht verstehen, wie ihre Mutter sich mit ihm einlassen konnte.
Trudy beschäftigt ihre Vergangenheit unterbewusst viel mehr, als ihr selbst klar ist, und sie ruft ein Forschungsprojekt ins Leben: Sie interviewt Deutsche in ihrer Region, die den Krieg miterlebt haben und später ausgewandert sind.
Gleich das erste Interview ist eine Katastrophe, denn die Gesprächspartnerin beteuert zwar, keine Wahl gehabt zu haben, dass sie im Grunde jedoch selbst antisemitische Ansichten hat und im Gegensatz zu vielen anderen keine Skrupel hatte, jüdische Mitbürger, wenn auch aus Not, zu verraten, ist offensichtlich.
However, this was NOT one of my favorites.In Those Who Save Us, author Jenna Blum (a former Steven Spielberg/Shoah Foundation historian, who interviewed Holocaust Survivors) tells the story of Anna, a young German girl who falls in love with a Jew; and her daughter, Trudy, the love child of Anna and her Jewish love.
Unfortunately, choices are non-existent, and in order to care for herself and her daughter, she is forced to become the mistress of an SS officer.
This was a difficult book to read – primarily when the author describes Anna’s association with the SS officer.
