https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28504574-the-dollhouse
She is living at the former Barbizon hotel which used to house women pursuing modeling and secretarial careers.
Rose sees a possible story to report and decides to investigate this further.As Rose investigates the death in the building we are introduced to Darby McLaughlin.
The more information Rose obtains about Darby during her research, the more obsessed she becomes with getting the whole story.
The stories of Rose and Darby are well interwoven.
The book also supplied interesting and informative detail on the lives of those living in the hotel in the 1950’s.
This was very realistic feeling historical fiction! I was immersed in the culture of the period and fascinated by the mystery and goings on of such a controversial time. I have never felt more grateful to be a woman in such a time as this as I am after finishing this book. Full review to come. *Thanks Dutton for my copy!
In 2016, Rose, a journalist, is looking for a story, happens to be staying in one of the apartments in the now renovated Barbizon – no longer just a haven for young women, it is now a modernized condominium.
Rose’s life has just been turned upside down several times, and feeling like she’s just been tossed around inside a snow globe, her gaze lands on one of the women of the “old” Barbizon, still there, grandfathered in by New York’s rent laws.
About the few women who stayed, who found a life there that didn’t include the then standard husband and 2.5 children.
http://wordnerdy.blogspot.com/2016/09...I keep starting books and just not feeling them, which honestly was also the case with this one, but I was determined to just finish one and to break my curse!
In the present, a woman living in the Barbizon (everything about her is basically a terrible rom-com, so I'm not even gonna get started) becomes intrigued by the mystery of one of the long-term residents, and that woman's story--of arriving at the famed hotel in the 1950s to go to secretarial school, though eventually things turn tragic--is interspersed throughout.
This book is basically about a bunch of sad-sacks with a super stereotypical Puerto Rican friend for good measure.
Even when Jason calls her out, and Darby calls her out (and then, in that inexplicably forgiving fashion that at this point is starting to seem like an odd character trait, decides it's all cool), Rose never seems to quite comprehend what she's done.
There's so much more, but honestly, at this point I'm just venting, because I wanted so much to love this book.
It felt--again, as many books I've read this year have--like everything after the halfway point was written and edited in a hurry.
I really enjoyed this book. I loved how each chapter went back and forth from the 1950's to the present and it was easy to follow. I'm adding this author to my list of favorites!
Silly chick lit. Also another of those current day/historical period dual storylines that are all the rage. Had the author focused entirely on the 1950s, it would have been a much better book: more believable and less fluff.
Fiona Davis has given life to that famous building, neatly wrapping her fictional story around the actual history of The Barbizon Hotel.
Casting from the present with Rose, a single journalist living in its present state as condominiums and back to 1952 to Darby, recently arrived for school from Defiant, Ohio, the author has created an intimate diorama where their stories overlap.
The restrictions, not only in their living conditions, but their life choices were keenly contrasted by Darby, in 1952 and Rose, in 2016, which was a very strong theme in the novel.
I didn’t regret reading in the end, but it wasn’t smooth sailing.
It. I wasn’t sold on their romance in the first place so it was hard to be sympathetic.I didn’t like Rose for most of the story.
Darby’s tale kept the story going while Rose sunk to new lows.
It’s sweet and I loved seeing things righted.
Not a bad way to end the book, but it didn’t make up for the ride there.
Nothing wrong with the writing, flow or anything, but I really did not like Rose and her downward spiral, which ended up killing the book.
Knowing little of NYC Manhattan hotels or rooming houses of that era, I still felt that Fiona Davis pretty well matched in clear prose the dichotomy of that particular decade.
And especially in Darby's Mother, she grabbed that very common "what will the neighbors think" wall on nearly everything or every manner of doing.
This time I found the 2016 and Rose's story nearly worthy of a speed read to get to the 1952 detail.
But then Bird made me want to go to 4 star at the same time.
Davis didn't even put the real into the musicians' lives with dire outcomes or how much they were "outsiders" either.
"That was very kind of you, to help her move.""Terrible story, what happened to her."ABOUT THIS BOOK: Fiona Davis's stunning debut novel pulls readers into the lush world of New York City's glamorous Barbizon Hotel for Women, where in the 1950s a generation of aspiring models, secretaries, and editors lived side by side while attempting to claw their way to fairy-tale success, and where a present-day journalist becomes consumed with uncovering a dark secret buried deep within the Barbizon's glitzy past.When she arrives at the famed Barbizon Hotel in 1952, secretarial school enrollment in hand, Darby McLaughlin is everything her modeling agency hall mates aren't: plain, self-conscious, homesick, and utterly convinced she doesn't belong—a notion the models do nothing to disabuse.
I loved this book!
It was such a fascinating story!
I remember reading about the rooming houses in New York where women could go and there were set rules they had to follow.
I didn't know this one was famous with several famous people living there like Sylvia Plath (one month) and Liza Minelli.
I liked how the story went back in time to 1952 when things were actually happening to 2016 with Rose doing research for her article.
This was so well worth my time!I received this copy from Penguin Random House's First to Read program.
Meh. Fiona Davis's descriptions of the buildings (The Dakota, The Barbizon Hotel) in her stories are quite good. Sadly, her stories within the buildings are lacking.
4.5 starsThe Dollhouse provides a fascinating glimpse into life at the Barbizon Hotel for Women in the 1950s.
The story opens in 2016 with Rose who lives in the Barbizon, which has been renovated and now contains high end condos.
Rose, who is a journalist, decides to pursue the stories of these women, particularly Darby McLaughlin.
Davis includes so many entertaining details about the Barbizon (the Odeon chandelier, the art deco décor and furnishings) and what it was like to live there in the 1950s and 1960s – women living there could not cross the lobby wearing pants, only skirts.
What a fascinating story. The Barbizon Hotel for women really did existing in New York City in the 1950s as did the Gibbs secretarial school for women. This story follows two entirely different women, one who lived there and one who worked there as well as a journalist in 2016 who comes across the story. It was very compelling, interesting and wonderful.
Told in alternating chapters of 2016 and 1952, The Dollhouse is a coming-of-age story, mystery, historical, and love story.Davis delivers  a dazzling multi-generational historical fiction, symbolic of the cultural change as women began to come to New York City for professional opportunities, but still wanted a "safe retreat" that felt like the family home, located on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
Flash forward to modern day-2016, Rose Lewin, a journalist, is living at the Barbizon, which now houses condos, and working on a story about the hotel’s earlier, more glamorous jazz age days.
SPOILER - She gets dumped and holes up in the apartment of her elderly neighbor whom she is interested in for a news story.
Most people would divulge such secrets to strangers who broke into their homes I suppose...Another issue I have is with the buildup of the drama of the heroin ring and Esme.
My last issue (at least the last one I will write about) is the buildup of Esme' death.
Throughout the story we hear there was a skirmish on the balcony and someone fell to their death.
Seems like a ton of people love this book so I might not be the authority here.
Novel read for Book Discussion GroupThis was a fascinating story of a couple of the girls who lived at the Barbizon Hotel during the 50's.
Fiona Davis tells the story of Darby a girl from Defiance, Ohio whose mother sends her to New York City to attend secretarial school.
The other half of the novel is the story of Rose, a journalist who happens to live just above Darby at the Barbizon.
I didn't know about the Barbizon or the jazz scene in New York in the 50's.
For a while the young Sylvia Plath lived at the Barbizon Hotel for Women which may have gained its fame from her short tenure there.
It seemed so elegant and atavistic at the same time for a city as metropolitan as New York to have this type of restricted boarding house among its many idiosyncratic offerings.In her book The Dollhouse, Fiona Davis, takes her readers into The Barbizon about 50 years after the days of Sylvia Plath, and at the same time, in flashbacks takes us back to the Barbizon in the 50’s.
3.5 to 4.0 rounded up to 4 "lite mystery" starsThis topsy-turvy story centered around the Barbizon Hotel in the 1950s kept me guessing until the very end.
She's also heard the famous story that one of the residents and a maid had a fight, resulting in one of the girls falling to her death from the terrace.
Read this great little mystery to discover how Rose gets to talk to most of these women, now 70-80 years old.
In particular, what was that fight about between the maid, Esme, and the resident, Darby.
Darby comes to New York City's Barbizon Hotel for Women to stay while she attends classes to become a secretary.
Secretarial school isn't going well, and the fashion models she meets at the hotel are as brutal as her mother.
And then she meets the hotel maid, Esme, and Esme introduces Darby to the vibrant world of jazz, and for the first time, Darby starts to live life.
But there's another side to the jazz world that's dark, and we know this will not end well.There's another storyline here, with Rose, an investigative reporter in present-day, looking into the Barbizon Hotel and Darby and Esme, and that's intriguing, too.Mystery.
Landmark NYC building brought to life in present day and back in its day.
Except it wasn't brought to life, as I never felt I was in any particular building, nor even especially in NYC of any period.
Potentially interesting storylines in both periods (though I'm not a fan for multiple time periods in one book, I get that most of my opposition is idiosyncratic and whiny and often I end up liking the book and sometimes even both storylines).
But both stories play out in a pulpy fashion.
The contemporary story had its moments, but failed to hold me.
I did want to like this one.
The setting offered a picture Ms. Davis failed to paint, leaving me cold to all the characters involved.Maybe after writing this one and getting lukewarm responses, Davis pulled the punches with her next novel, The Address, which I actually enjoyed between the two.
Or, read Searching for Grace Kelly, which is set in the Barbizon (I don't remember if the name's actually used), and tells the story of young career girls living and loving within its walls.*Homosexuality/bisexuality is used for drama and supposed gotchas, an irritant for those of us not happy to see the LGBT community used as a dramatic trope.
Also, Esme is a stereotypical Puerto Rican, particularly with other irritating tropes, hot-headed, fiery, and of course, knife brandishing.
4.5/5 What a wonderful book! If you are a fan of historical fiction, then this is a must read.
Хареса ми , даже много.
Увлекателно написана, няма излишни обстоятелства.
Отново 2 паралелни истории, едната на млада жена живяла в близкото минало-1952 г., в същия хотел , в който попада другата млада жена по наше време.Две не леки съдби, допряли се във времето.Може би историята , която се развива в настоящето не е разгъната напълно, минава отгоре отгоре по детайлите.Няма излишен драматизъм .Интелигентно написана."Ако си самотна и уплашена, тогава се справи със страховете си още отсега, защото живота става по-самотен и по-страшен, независимо с какво хората пълнят домовете и сърцата си.Всичко зависи от теб скъпа.
В края на краищата се оказваш сама."
A sold 4 star read ..... This is the story about the Barbizon Hotel for women in NYC back in the 1950's. Young ladies stayed at this hotel- Eileen Ford Modeling Agency, various publishing houses or attending the Katherine Gibbs Secretarial Agency, -- trying to make something of themselves before marriage - or at least doing something for themselves instead of getting married. This is a part of our history- "We've come a long way, baby!" A fun read for sure -xx
I've worked backwards through Fiona Davis's three novels this year and have completely enjoyed each one. I'm not a New Yorker, and all of her books are New York stories, but I'm enthralled by the way she weaves dual timelines together and ties them to specific New York landmark buildings. I can't wait for her next one (The Chelsea) to be published.
Rose, just like the debut author Fiona Davis, is a journalist living in present day NYC.
Rose observes one of the older residents, Darby McLaughlin, who is still living at the Barbizon among several other holdouts from the 50's, and is instantly intrigued by her aloofness and her strange appearance.
As a seasoned journalist, Rose begins to questions the doorman and the other older residents about Darby and the women living in the Barbizon in the 50's.
I was more engaged when reading Darby's early experience in New York; there must be a lot more stories coming out of the Barbizon during that time.
This is a very good story which juxtaposes similar lives of a woman living at the Barbizon Hotel for Women in NYC in 1952 which a woman living there in 2016. Both are struggling for independence and happiness, one determined to solve a mystery and the other determined to live with that mystery. I thoroughly enjoyed this book.
What a great debut novel, Fiona Davis did a great job and I am excited to read her coming works.
I really could not believe this was a debut novel, it was so well written and researched.
The Dollhouse is set in one of my favorite cities, New York City in the 1950s, it covers the life of the women in Barbizon Hotel.
I have never of the Barbizon Hotel before and the whole concept of it seemed very interesting and the mere fact that no ones ever wrote about it made it even more appealing.
