https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1081360.General_Chemistry
All of our ideas about life involve chemical reactions. Hard as it is for me to believe now, at one point I was on a path to become a chemist. Throughout elementary and high school, I had always been best at science; and chemistry was my favorite subject. By the time I was a junior, I was taking an advanced course with a teacher who now, for me, embodies the archetypical chemist: He had a long white beard (he belonged to a special club of genuinely-bearded Santa Clause impersonators), always wo
I dropped chemistry next semester.I know that the above paragraphs are totally unnecessary in a book review, but I wanted to explain my motivation for reading a chemistry textbook: in a strange and charming way, it was a walk down memory lane.
It thus seemed obvious to me that this textbook was not written with people like me in mind (the enthusiastic but ignorant dilettante), but rather for quite sharp science students who already knew their physics, and who didn’t need somebody to hold their hand through the material.
Good chemistry books. Contains everything about chemistry. Every fucking thing.
In giving a definition for such a word the effort is made to describe the accepted usage."More accurate a sample of definition:SubstancesA substance is usually defined by chemists as a homogeneous species of matter with reasonably definite chemical composition.By this definition.
For the sake of clarity, the chemist`s more restricted meaning may bc indicated by the phrase "pure substance."Our definition is not precise, in that it says that a substance has reasonably definite chemical composition.
Most materials that the chemist classifies as substances (pure substances) have definite chemical composition; for example.
Linus Pauling was one of the most influential and gifted scientists of the 20th century and the winner of the 1954 Nobel Prize for Chemistry.
His book is solid and comprehensive but very dry and there is no sense of the passion that he must have felt for his subject being conveyed in his writing.At least in the earlier chapters, Pauling's approach is very heavy on the history of physics and chemistry in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
Obviously present day students of the subject will be much better off reading modern books on the subject and this book is now little more than of historical interest.
Great book, but very challengingThis is an excellent book -- definitely a classic. Despite the name there is more physics, especially quantum physics, material than traditional chemistry, but it is an excellent read with some very deep insights into the nature of the universe.
Great intro!
I did not take any Chemistry classes in high school or college, but started reading chemistry books to gain some basic knowledge.
I have been working my way back from more advanced Chemistry books to General Chemistry.
I found that from reading the more advanced books that most of the concepts in this book seemed relatively simplistic by comparison.
I would say that this book is great for anyone just trying to learn a little about General Chemistry.
It does assume you have a little Chemistry background and knowledge of Calculus.
The math equations were not necessarily needed to be solved or worked to obtain insightful understanding of the general concepts.
From the father of bond theory, and two time Noel Prize winner (Chemistry and Peace) ... Cannot do better.
Then again, maybe not: The basic understanding of Chemistry hasn't changed all that much even if we've discovered much more about the very advanced topics within the field--so maybe a GenChem book written in the 50s(?) will still hold up today.
The chapters range from the standard stuff about the structure of atoms, to bonding, to the non-metallic elements, but then has whole chapters devoted to things like oxygen compounds of non-metallic elements, the quantum mechanical analysis of gases, chemical thermodynamics, and other topics that usually are left out of a GenChem text.
I got a copy of this classic text as I approached graduation with my BS in chemistry in 2008. I found Pauling's writing style lucid but as I skimmed the book I was a little shocked that some principles were included in this 'general chemistry' book that I didn't encounter until taking supplement physics courses or physical chemistry. Pauling had high expectations of his students.
Heavy read, Heavy, Heavy. You better freshen up your College Algebra and Calculas or you won't make through this one. But is excellent primary Chemical reference and the way Pauling writes it is more like a story.
j;j
Still useful after all these years.
nice
mastering chemistry
the chemist is talking
this book will help me in my studies especially learning my chemistry.
This book has all the good secrets.
Simply the best chemistry book
THE chemistry text.
For the price (cheap), it is a good reference book. Not necessarily for the beginner, though.
