https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17648.Selected_Poems

I think most people on this planet 18+ could write a better poetry book than this one
Atwood never lets me down. She's raw, she's intense, her poems are absolutely stunning. I love the combination of strength and struggle that is such a big theme in all of her work. She makes me feel so validated in anything I ever go through.
I read a scattered few of Atwood's poems in college classes and textbooks, and a few months ago I read her spin on the story of Odysseus, Penelopiad, but only now that I've consumed about 250 pages of her poems do I have a solid picture of her as a writer.
Atwood's growth in ambition and confidence is evident over the course of this collection -- she starts and ends a distant, dissatisfied and even contemptuous lover, but gradually her poems are grounded less and less in her daily experiences and more and more in the worlds of gender politics, of nature conservation, and of classic literature.
Everything Atwood writes is really bleak. I like that.
For now, a poem:I Was Reading a Scientific ArticleMargaret AtwoodThey have photographed the brainand here is the picture, it is full ofbranches as I always suspected,each time you arrive the electricityof seeing you is a hugetree lumbering through my skull, the roots waving.It is an earth, its fibres wrapthings buried, your forgotten wordsare graved in my head, an intricatered blue and pink prehensile chemistryveined like a leafnetwork, or is it a seascapewith corals and shining tentacles.I touch you, I am created in yousomewhere as a complexfilament of lightYou rest on me and my shoulder holdsyour heavy unbelievableskull, crowded with radiantsuns, a new planet, the peoplesubmerged in you, a lost civilizationI can never excavate:my hands trace the contours of a totaluniverse, its differentcolors, flowers, its undiscoveredanimals, violent or sereneits other airits clawsits paradise rivers***In my Market Research class, we were tasked to conduct personal interviews all over Manila about the latest ad campaign for Coke.
I read volume II of Atwood’s Selected Poems first, assuming that a good poet would get better with time.
However, Atwood is so very wonderful with her deliciously dark poems, dry wit, and dramatic dialogues that I couldn’t resist going back for more.
The very first poem in this book shows why I keep coming back to her.
Titled “This Is a Photography of Me,” she chills us to the bone when she gets to “The photograph was taken/the day after I drowned.”Particularly appealing to me were her poems from The Journals of Susanna Moodie (1970), a woman who relocated to Quebec from England in 1832, who wasn’t prepared for how difficult her life would be.
There were only a handful of poems that I liked in this book and the rest were meh.
Weirdly enough my favorite poem of the book was the first one.
Most of Atwood's poems seemed, to me, to go nowhere and have no apparent meaning.
She can be very descriptive and even tell deep stories with her poems, creating great imagery and what-not but really it was just kind of confusing most of the time.Granted, you can read one poem ten times and have a different meaning/image each time.
I need to go back to this one more. There are groupings of poems that I have forgotten the reason for, but that's okay, I trust her writing. "Unfortunately I don't have leaves.Instead I have eyesand teeth and other non-greenthings which rule out osmosis.So be careful, I mean it,I give you a fair warning:''I close in mid poem where I began citing ("More and More". Soon again, and time to get the next set of years, seems to me, although I've read several of those, too, over the past years when they showed up here or there.
You held out your handI took your fingerprintsYou asked for loveI gave you only descriptionsPlease die I saidso I can write about itAfter all you are quiteordinary: 2 arms 2 legs a head, a reasonable body, toes & fingers, a few eccentricities, a few honestiesbut not too many, too manypostponements & regrets butyou'll adjust to it, meetingdeadlines and other people, pretending to love the wrong woman some of the time, listening to your brainshrink, your diariesexpanding as you grow older
Beautiful, clear, steady, and powerful poems. They get substantially better/stronger when she hits the 1971 mark. The "Power Politics" collection is incredible. Atwood's mind and words are fortifying."My right hand unfolds riversaround you, my left hand releases its treesI speak rain.I spin you on a night and you hide in it."
Now that I've finished all of her novels and short stories (until the new one comes out later this month!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!) I've had to move on to her poetry. Poetry still isn't really my favorite thing to read, but some of these were pretty great.
I always seem to read this collection when I'm down. I think these were her best poems - the ones thereafter are not so thrilling.
It is astounding how many quality words flow out of this woman. Her poetry is quite accessible, but don't think it simple.
songs of the transformed are some of the most poignant poems I have ever read and are my favorite to read again and again
I continue reading through Margaret Atwood. Her versatility astounds me. In the ten years that these poems span, it is good to watch her growth as a poet.
I had a hard time picking one favorite poem but, I have to say the stanza in 'Their Attitudes Differ'  You refuse to own yourself, you permit others to do it for you: Wow!
I highly recommend this collection of poems for anyone who loves poetry but, also, those who bask in beautifully written language or prose.
I have poured over this book, slowly, over the course of a year, and it has been a great source of comfort to me during a time in my life when comfort was difficult to come by.
At last, it is finished, accomplished, and yet, difficult to put down.
(Good thing she has a second volume).
There are different ways to read the words of Margaret Atwood, at a surface level, which can often be frustrating and incomplete, and beneath the surface, under which lurks endless possibilities.
If you like to think, this book is for you, if not, walk away before you hurt yourself.
I did get a sense of the author and feel like I know her and am familiar with her journey.
After reading this and the Handmaid's Tale I would like to read an autobiography or biography.
I liked the section Procedures for Underground - 1970 a lot.
After reading I also want to be buried in the ground naked with no casket, there were a couple poems that made me feel this way, one being The Deaths of the Other Children.
I had so much to say about these poems but waited too long so now I forget.
Atwood has created so many great novels and short stories. I never knew she wrote poetry until I randomly found this at a book store. The first poem "This is a Photograph of Me" shocked me. It was dark and yet somehow beautiful. I'm not one for modern poetry, but this is an amazing collection.
I'm not very good with poetry in general, so I think that took away from my enjoyment of this collection. Atwood is still a fantastic writer, I just can't understand what she's trying to say through most of these poems. That's probably my own fault though.
3,5 stars
3.5*

It includes selections from previously published works, THE CIRCLE GAME (1966), THE ANIMALS IN THAT COUNTRY (1968), THE JOURNALS OF SUSANNA MOODIE (1970), PROCEDURES FOR UNDERGROUND (1970), POWER POLITICS (1971) and YOU ARE HAPPY (1974).
She does quite clearly establish herself as a feminist writer, themes which are soon to emerge in many of her novels.The pace started to pick up a bit in THE JOURNALS OF SUSANNA MOODIE.
I was fascinated to read all the themes and foreshadowings in these poems that quite clearly informed her interpretation of THE ODYSSEY.
Having familiarized myself with her novels, it was a joy to read her early work.
Atwood's poetry still puts emphasis on the sublime and on subtle horror, although the earlier section of the book lacks the sense of disillusionment that defines much of her prose.
Perhaps my favorite poem in the collection, "More and More," crafts a lovely extended metaphor about that most familiar of young delights: the overwhelming nature of codependent love.
As the book goes on, Atwood's familiar disillusionment appears.
The poem "A Soul, Geologically" shows less innocence than "More and More," but is marked by a similar sense of longing and despair.I really enjoyed reading this collection.
Oh my, young Margaret Atwood has a lot to say about language, relationships, settlers, landscape...so much to say! I'm totally biased, because I already love Atwood, but her poetry is pretty badass. Some of my favorite clips:"Love is not a professiongenteel or otherwisesex is not dentistrythe slick fillng of aches and cavities...permit yourself angerand permit me minewhich needs neitheryour approval nor your surprise""Last year I abstainedthis year I devourwithout guiltwhich is also an art""All I want is love, you stupidhumanist. See if you can."I could go on and on. So much quality stuff in here.
Her talent for imagery is undeniable, but this collection, the bulk of which are about relationships, are relentlessly negative and, cumulatively, depressing, to me at least. I do like the way in which landscape and psychology interweave and blend in her work, but not even the selections from the (ironically?) entitled "You Are Happy" (suggested subtitle: "And I'll Fix That!") broke the spell of poems about failed relationships, disappointment, and violence or the threat thereof. Not recommended for the borderline suicidal.
SELECTED POEMS by Margaret AtwoodI thought I was going to love this collection of poetry, but I didn't. The other poetry I've read recently I liked a lot more than this, and those others weren't anything special. Not my taste in poetry. I give it (a generous) 2 stars."a wordexploding from you in gold, crimson,unrolling in a brilliant scroll"Overall Opinion: ★★~KaylaMy Blog
My favorite poem in this collection was "Dream 2: Brian the Still-Hunter." I liked its form and its ending. "When I woke / I remembered: he has been gone / twenty years and not heard from." That ending threw me for a loop! --And I love that! To me, a poem has to tell a story or give you some feeling. Most of Atwood's poetry does give feeling - but not the kind I want to feel.There were a few lines that I really liked too, but I think I'll try one of her novels next!
