https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11472.We_Wish_to_Inform_You_That_Tomorrow_We_Will_Be_Killed_with_Our_Families
Either way, Gourevitch's writing won't let you turn away.
But such a statistic only cracks open the door to a world where the victims were killed not by gas or ovens but with swinging machetes; where preachers presided over the killing of their parishes, husbands over the killing of their wives; where the French army intervened in favor of the killers and the U.S. government didn't intervene at all; and where the United Nations peacekeepers, before abandoning the country altogether, fired their weapons only to stop dogs from eating the corpses.
How else can the government integrate so many killers back into society except to order that it be so?Read the full review here: http://bit.ly/2dZMCvO
Murambi: si stava costruendo una Scuola Tecnica secondaria – il vescovo locale spinse la popolazione tutsi a rifugiarsi in questo luogo per via della presunta protezione delle truppe francesi – il conto dei morti arriva a 65.000 – adesso gli edifici destinati alla scuola sono stati trasformati in un memoriale del genocidio.A dieci anni dai fatti, io ho voluto essere presente alle commemorazioni del genocidio oltre che per documentare le cerimonie, funebri e non, ufficiali e non, per vedere come sta il paese: per vedere soprattutto come sta la gente, come ha reagito all’orrore, come vive o sopravvive.“Ntituzabibagirwa” è scritto sulle croci delle tombe a Murambi, nel sudovest del paese, dove furono trucidati almeno sessantamila persone, bambini e vecchi inclusi, donne e uomini.
He says: "against those who preferred violence to reason, Kagame was ready to fight." And he doesn't mean violent fighting, he means engaging in taking principled stands against those who wish to get people wrapped up in insanity instead of engaging with others in a reality-based and clear-headed way.
For some reason, reading that makes my heart race with excitement.There's another part, too, that makes me pretty much freak out, and it's on page 259 when talking about how the people guilty of genocide tried (and mostly succeeded) in reshaping the conversation about the genocide to hide their guilt.
It would seem that such a brutal ordeal would be beneath us in the 1990's, the stuff of darker days such as what occurred during the Holocaust and the Cambodian Genocide, but sadly the Rwandan Genocide not only took place less than thirty years ago, but little effort was made initially to stop it.
If one thing is made clear, there will never be any excuse as to why this incident occurred in the first place.
But Gourevitch takes a tragedy about which most of the world knows very little -- the genocide of Rwandan Tutsis in 1994 -- and he thoroughly explores it, and along the way he humanizes it.
He condemns the UN and Western nations rather harshly, but long before you reach the end of the book you are convinced that they deserve every ounce of condemnation he gives them, and more, for their failure to intercede in one of the most devastating human tragedies of the 20th century.This is not a book that can (or should) be read quickly.
The book is full of chilling stories, exposing both the horror of the actions of the Rwanda orchestrators of the genocide, the willing and complicit participants in carrying out the genocide, and the willful inaction and facilitation of the conflict by international actors, including the U.S. government.
The title of the book comes from one of these stories, in which the parishioners write to their pastor and to local officials asking for their intervention only to be told that it is God's will that their kind be eradicated.This is a very difficult book to finish, but it's well worth it.
This book provides an excellent history, and contextualizes events enough to allow even those very poorly educated in the matters of African colonization like myself to grasp some kind of understanding (or informed incomprehension).I also appreciated hearing the voices of the Rwandans Gourevitch interviewed as part of his research and reporting.
Usually when reading history, I am more critical (or at least, I try to be!) - but in this case, there is a dearth of written material on the subject, and general public awareness is also limited, if it exists at all.
Gourevitch is not a historian (plus historians editorialize all the time, if history is interpretation).
This was fantastic. A blending of superb writing and journalistic skills, to tell both the individual and national stories of the Rwandan genocide. I was marking sections in my book to quote from, but I ended up with 20+ passages. It answered all of my own questions of how it happened, why international governments or agencies didn't step in to help and what happened afterwards. Essential reading.
I was astoundingly ignorant about what happened after the initial 100-day massacre. This isn't only my fault: Gourevitch shows how Western media - and governments - completely ignored and misrepresented what happened in Rwanda and Zaire. And you don't kill 1,000,000 humans in four weeks without huge long-term fallout. The median age in Rwanda is now 18 years, 43% of the population is aged 14 or under, and 63% of the country lives under the poverty line. 52% of children die before reaching 5 years of age.
While I cannot claim to have been old enough to be properly plugged into the political landscape during as the events were unfolding, it is indeed damning that I could have come away from all of the news coverage that the genocide eventually produced with such a deeply flawed understanding of the massacre.“We wish to inform you that tomorrow we will be killed with our families” follows the events of the Hutu-led genocide of around 1 million Tutsis beginning in 1994.
In April of 1994, the government of Rwanda called on everyone in the Hutu majority to kill everyone in the Tutsi minority.
Over the next three months 800,000 Tutsis were murdered in the most unambiguous case of genocide since Hitler's war against the Jews.
Fossey would later be murdered.
Some would later protest they took lives to protect their own families.
Even UN troops killed dogs, but somehow never used guns to protect any living humans.
Five out of every six Rwandan children had witnessed slaughter.
By 1997, 125,000 Hutus were in prison.
True justice would have meant enormous amounts of even more killing.
I think too many people will find it easy to rubber-stamp a favorable opinion on this book and talk about how terrible the Rwandan genocide was and how this account really brings it to life.
These can be quite powerful when Gourevitch cuts himself out and lets the Rwandan survivors tell their own stories, the same way that some documentaries are best when the narrator/director steps out of the picture.
When Gourevitch steps back in, it's annoying and actually detractive from the sheer power of the Rwandan story.
Excerpt from the book:Even if not taking sides were a desirable position, it is impossible to act in or on a political situation without having a political effect (speaking about humanitarian aid organizations assisting the "refugees" [Hutu powers in exile aka genocidars] in the D.R.C.) The Humanitarian mindset is to not think, just to do.
Humanitarians do not like to be called mercenaries yet the humanitarian mindset of not to think and just to do IS a mercenary mindset.
When Humanitarian aid becomes a smoke screen to cover the political effects it actually creates and states hide behind it using it as a vehicle for policy making then we can be regarded as agents in the conflict.
Nevertheless he does score points in detailing how the international communities have been insensitive to Rwanda; particularly in terms of the refugees (or fugitives from justice) in camps that were receiving humanitarian aid from several UN organizations.Gourevitch also points out the hypocrisy of the UN providing aid, but it's unwillingness to risk lives (like to prevent a genocide of close to 1 million people).
These points are well brought out in the book of Gourevitch.
Dallaire and Paul Rusesabagina (represented in the movie "Hotel Rwanda"), are interviewed in this book of Philip Gourevitch.
On their maroon blazers, several war the label buttons that sold for a dollar each in the museum shop, inscribed with the slogans "Remember" and "Never Again." The museum was just a year old; at its inaugural ceremony, President Clinton had described it as "an investment in a secure future against whatever insanity lurks ahead." Apparently, all he meant was that the victims of future exterminations could now die knowing that a shrine already existed in Washington where their suffering might be commemorated, but at the time, his meaning seemed to carry a bolder promise.""The West's post-Holocaust pledge that genocide would never again be tolerated proved to be hollow, and for all the fine sentiments inspired by the memory of Auschwitz, the problem remains that denouncing evil is a far cry from doing good.""According to its mandate, the UNHCR provides assitance exclusively to refugees - people who have fled across an international border and can demonstrate a well-founded fear of persecution in their homeland - and fugitives fleeing criminal prosecution are explicitly disqualified from protection.
“What distinguishes genocide from murder, and even from acts of political murder that claim as many victims, is the intent. The crime is wanting to make a people extinct. The idea is the crime.” What happened in Rwanda, 1994? The answer isn't as clear as one may think, and the questions that arise aren't simple either. I'm so, so glad I read this book. I'm too young to remember anything disasterous or political from the 90's and everything I've heard about Rwanda since 1994 has been from my own
I'm too young to remember anything disasterous or political from the 90's and everything I've heard about Rwanda since 1994 has been from my own, knowledgeable parents or my high school history book.
They don't really talk about what happened anywhere and no one seems to know anything other than that the country was divided into two peoples and the Hutus decided to start killing off the other.
Some countries even openly supported the government organizing the slaughter (this has to do with the Hutu government fooling the international community that they as a people were the ones being killed and hunted).
And then, in what are the book's most provocative and though-provoking chapters, Gourevitch demonstrates that the subsequent 'humanitarian response' to the massive exodus from Rwanda of Hutus fearing reprisals, led to yet another disaster as the Congolese refugee camps became centers that protected and aided the Hutu killers.
That there would be another war because of the camps was obvious long before the war came."All of which still has me wondering about the subtexts for humanitarian and military aid in Syria and Iraq.
Gourevitch, like David Rieff, also drives home the point that humanitarianism without a political context, without a political goal, far too often fails to get at the root causes of disaster--- in this case, well-organised mass murder by a highly-organised political party ---and only treats symptoms.
This is a key book not only for looking at Africa in the last twenty years, but for anyone interested in the politics of humanitarianism and the fate of any effort to make "human rights" something other than a bitter joke.
If you're interested in international law, Africa, humanitarian aid, or any hope for the future--- read this book.
This book tears apart the excuses given by the Western powers as to why they didn't interfere, why they just let more than 800,000 Tutsis be obliterated without lifting one finger.Gourevitch brings passion to his words and outlines the history of not only Rwanda, but of its ties to Uganda, what-was-then-Zaire, Burundi, and other African countries.
The money was spent, because it had to be spent, and Hutus not only lived well, but were then allowed to return to their original homes, while their maimed Tutsi neighbours squatted in burned-out villages."Do you know what genocide is?
When I was younger I remember reading books on the holocaust and thinking this could never happen again.
I have read books about the Rwandan genocide from the victim's point of view.
This book helps you understand the political side of it.
Through this book I came to understand that calling it such required action not just morally but legally.
The Hutus were broadcasting it across the radio waves for all to hear and the victims were calling out for help - we failed to answer and perhaps we encouraged worse to happen.
I admit that I did not know much about Rawanda's genocide before reading this book.
I was a preteen when it occurred ibn the early 90s and global news wasn't really one of my life priorities.
So I learned so much from this account.
All of it tragic and frustrating and hopeless.
It made me ashamed of my country, for the United States' aggressive refusal to respond to a genocide.
It made me wonder at the people of Rawanda, that they could be less into participating in a slaughter of nearly a million of their neighbors, friends and countrymen.
possibly one of the best books i've read on rwanda. horribly depressing, horribly great, just. absolutely wonderful work. i put it second to  The Age of Genocide only because that is possibly the end all book on genocide, because of it's breath, scope, and wonderful, wonderful history. but this is maybe the best book on rwanda i've read. and read again. and again.
The only complaint I have has nothing to do with his reporting on the genocide but rather about a rather minor comment he makes at the beginning of the book where he describes Sherman's March to the Sea. He should have put the same interest into getting at the truth there as he did on Rwanda.
While it is accurate to say that Sherman was guilty of perpetrating a genocide on Native Americans in the west following the CW, the description he gives of the March to the Sea is not accurate.
For anyone interested in understanding the history of Rwanda, the genocide that occurred there, the colonialization that pitted the Hutus against the Tutsis and the artificiality of separating these two groups, this is a brilliant and essential book.I learned about how the Rwandan population was arbitrarily separated into two groups - the Tutsis and the Hutus - by the Belgians.
President Clinton went so far as to ask Ms. Albright to hold up an essential U.N. vote for several days that would have moved troops into Rwanda right away.
Even more sadly, because this conflict didn't happen in the Western world, it largely seems to have escaped notice.What makes this book even more difficult to read is because Gourevitch does not treat the victims as mere numbers or statistics.
Through his interviews and finely crafted prose around the survivors, he tells not just one but many tales of death, destruction, rape, and horror.
The only criticism I have is that there isn't enough focus on female survivors - and no description of the horrors of rape and sexual violence that they had to go through.
From the Armenian genocide to the holocaust, we see the writing in the sand yet we do nothing to stop it.
The Rwanda genocide does not get as much attention as the holocaust because of the sentiment: " Africans are always killing each other" This book sheds light on the historical context of the genocide and how extremists used the culture of obedience and high poverty rates to pit neighbor against neighbor.
Gourevitch has helped to shed light on Rwanda as a country and Africa as a continent.
Hopefully people will read this book and will be able to dispel the notion that "Africans are savages".
Tri týždne hutného textu o veci, o ktorej som vedela jediné - že sa stala.
Spomienky, výpovede, fakty i zavádzania, snaha vysvetliť problém rwandskej genocídy bežného človeku zo Západu.
Tak som sa cítila, keď som to čítala, že nechápem, nemôžem, neviem...
ani som nevedela Peťovi zreprodukovať, čo som to vlastne čítala.
Chabé útržky, kúsky informácií, ale bola som neschopná v tom prvom momente po dočítaní nejako rozumne vystihnúť, čo sa tam vlastne stalo.
Najviac ma ohromilo to, čo nasledovalo po tých prvých najvypuklejších troch mesiacoch.
Že nebol koniec, naopak, prerástlo to celé do akejsi dlhej agónie bez nejakej možnosti šťastného konca.
A first hand examination of the Rwandan genocide of 1994. Gives a number of survivor stories, a thorough look at the country in it's aftermath (up to 1998). An excellent view of the international communities role in the genocide, it's inaction, and the debacle of humanitarian aid which aggravated the situation and wound up giving money and supplies to many of the Genocidaires. It did not seem to be as explanatory of the causes of the genocide or the organization and planning and execution. These were certainly addressed, maybe not as thoroughly as I would have liked.3.5 stars
Amazing story of Rwandan genocide, still haunts me. Reminded of it by reading Stassen's equally haunting and disturbing Deogratias...
Across the web, it is listed as one of the top books to read on the Rwandan genocide and I can understand why.
My main interest was to understand why it happened, what led to it and how it was contained.
I think the value of this book lies in its level of detail if used for research purposes, rather than for a general reader.Later I Googled and found a paper on the rwandan genocide which explains the "preconditions leading to genocide in terms of social conditions, group identity, and cultural dispositions.
I think this will be a more worthwhile read and I look forward to it.
