https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/116563.So_You_Want_to_Be_a_Wizard
So you want to stop being bullied, you just want some time to yourself, to read, to do what you want to do, to even make a friend maybe?
Being the person you want to be and doing the things you want to do is so much more important!So you want to learn how to do wizardly things, talk to trees and suchlike, make things happen, meet new beings, maybe find that lost pen?
It will turn magic into science and you will summon not a demon but a star; your new friend will have his own familiar too, not a beast but a car.
starships and new worlds and the limitless vistas of interstellar night..."Nita, short for Juanita, is regularly bullied and abused by neighborhood kids, finding herself almost helpless to prevent it.
As she is running away, she darts into the library for safety and finds herself walking through the children's section, greeting books like old friends.
In short order, she meets another bullied kid, Kat, and starts working with him to retrieve a pen stolen from Nita in her latest attack.
Because a lot of times Nita and Kat use Wizard Speech, the dialogue markers are in parenthesis, which may be confusing to less sophisticated readers.On the balance, however, good completely outweighs the bad.
While browsing shelves at the library, Nita discovers a book with the title "So You Want to Be a Wizard" She takes it as a joke, but it turns out to be the real deal.
Nita soon finds another wizard named Kit and they go on a really twisted and somewhat scary adventure to a very dark and creepy world.While on the surface, you might think it sounds a lot like Harry Potter, but it isn't.
It's a totally different "world" with totally different magic and it feels more like a comic book than anything else.
The perfect fantasy novel--there you are in the library, and you pick up one particular book . . . I love Kit and Nita as they struggle with being sloppy and working around their parents as young wizards!
And reading about an introverted, socially awkward, oft-misunderstood geek who stumbles across a mysterious book and suddenly finds herself immersed in a world (or two) of wizardry and wonder (and some terror and heartache) allows me to live my fantasy vicariously through a younger, fictional, sort-of alter ego.Another thing I absolutely adore about this book--and the Young Wizards series in general--is that Diane Duane never assumes that the readers (her target audience being kids roughly, I'd say, 10-14) won't "get it" just because they're young.
It's totally possible to write about things that are different from what we experience in this world, but to write them in a way that you understand what's going on.
In this book, though she uses analogies that don't help make things any clearer.
When I stopped reading, for example, the 2 young wizards are creating a thing to plug a hole in a thing to keep out a grey cloud that they somehow know wants to eat them (clearly I couldn't tell what was going on).
Reading this book, I wished I could time travel.
Because much as I liked this book as an adult, I know that if I'd first read this in middle school, I would have loved it.It is a good book, a very good book.
And yet, I know that everything I liked about this book I would have loved if I'd read it at age twelve, and much that I was apathetic towards I would have liked.
Some books should just hit you at the right time of your life, or miss their chance to really take hold.
When the young readers in my acquaintance complain that there aren't more Harry Potter books to read
***********************************************Nov 22nd 2009This book hits a huge wall around page 200 and becomes slow.Like, really, really, really, slow.It's like a snail and a jar of marmalade reproduced and then that offspring mated with a sloth/really-boring-Sunday-school-lecture hybrid.I'm not even sure how Duane pulled that off because there is so much action in the second half that it could have filled up three novels worth of climaxes.There were a couple of moments where I had to go back and reread passages, because the characters suddenly had an intense knowledge of magic for no reason (Well...
It means that as the book series progresses (...yuck...), the stories would, theoretically, get more boring because the magic is less complex.The majority of the second half of the book feels like Nita whining for Kit to save her, and he does.
The magic here is rooted in the principles of science, the wizards are charged with slowing the destruction of the universe (all of them), and Nita and Kit have to deal with all this while going to school, dealing with bullies and hiding this from their families.
I was fully immersed as the action started to pick up, and then I didn't want to put it down, even when Duane punched a whole in my chest, tore out my heart and proceeded to squeeze it before my eyes.This is such a cool and amazing world Duane has created here in just one book.
“Reading one book is like eating one potato chip.”  This was honestly one of the best middle-grade fantasy books, I have ever read :) It was whimsical, magical and so fun :)MORE OF THE REVIEW HERE
I read this series countless times when I was a teenager, but this was always my least favorite of the lot - almost too creepy for me. I was never excited to roam around in this particular world the way I was excited to return to High Wizardry or A Wizard Abroad (though that last one may have something to do with the love interest .... sue me).
I blame most of that on the "magic" used in the story; it seemed more like physics or calculus to me.
His was the most well-rounded and charismatic character in the book, with the Lotus not far behind in terms of likeability.
It's pretty sad when one feels a stronger connection to non-human characters than to the human ones about which the story (supposedly) revolves.I will be fair and give the next book a go.
If I'm wrong, however, I'll happily forgo the rest of the series and return to the books of Diana Wynne Jones and Madeleine L'Engle, forgetting I ever heard of Diane Duane.
Stuff like ‘Fred’, the ‘white hole’, who is the opposite of a black hole, and some of the logic of how magic worked just… I didn’t feel hooked by it.
Once I got to the white hole burping up whole cars, I was more or less done; I just skimmed the rest.I do actually like parts of the set-up: the idea of the book that starts the main character’s journey is pretty neat, for example, and I didn’t read the characters as just default white kids from the start — even if Kit Rodriguez’s name wasn’t a probable giveaway.
My third reread: loved it.
This was such a fun read. There are things here and there I think could be a little better, but overall this was just such an interesting book with an interesting type of magic. Very highly recommended if you enjoy these sort of young people discovering they are wizards.
I wonder if Rowling had read these, since certain things, like the villain being referred to as You-Know-Who were incredibly similar.For all of that, though, So You Want to Be a Wizard reminds me much more heavily of Madeleine L'Engle's A Wrinkle in Time.
In fact, I think that if you love A Wrinkle in Time, you really ought to check this series out.
Every library has tons of those "So You Want to Be..." books, and I love how Duane built fantasy knowledge into such a seemingly simple thing.Unfortunately, this clever device also serves as a method for info-dumping the ways of wizardry on the reader.
Nita decides she wants to use this book to help her fend off the bullies who constantly beat her up and leave her nursing her wounds and her pride on a daily basis.
While picking up Fred, they discover a hideous world they are anxious to escape from, the feelings of terror and vileness are palpable.
If you are looking for a fantastic world that will lead you more on the Battle Star Galactica course this is what you are looking for.When I look for magic, I'm not ready or wanting to read about mechanical things, it throws off my groove.
1.5 🌟A dark and urban kind of Harry Potter that's pretty much no fun at all.The magic is interesting but the language used ranges from the vocabulary of a 6 year old to that of a grown up which makes me really wonder who this book was actually written for. Because of the vocabulary and writing style that seem to contradict each other, the magic of the magic sort of puffs away and a story that could have been great becomes a parody. :(
Re-reading this book as an adult, I’m even more impressed by how intelligent and interesting the story is for readers of all ages.
The work of wizards is to fight entropy throughout the universe, which is embodied in the figure of the Lone One. Drawing on myths of Lucifer, the Lone One is a fallen version of a bright star who turned his back on the Powers That Be and introduced death into the world.
After taking her oath, Nita and another young wizard, a boy named Kit, face the Lone One in a corrupted alternate version of Manhattan.
I remember reading this book for the first time and finding an entire new world opened up to me.
I've read a few other reviews on here that complain that the book feels dated, that the characters have dialogue that doesn't feel real, that the descriptions don't describe, and I can only wonder at what they are talking about.
Didn't even realize it was part of a series when I was reading it, as I had forgotten the reason I had checked it out was because the 6th book in the series made the ALA Teen Top Ten List.
On page 45 they magically bring a talking white hole to Earth that they name Fred.
In addition, even though they have this white hole they brought to Earth, and they learn that the book that keeps everything in existence is missing, all the main character can think about is getting her ordinary pen back.
74:Fred talking: (...Not since I was a black hole, certainly.
Part of what makes great fantasy is a great setting, i.e. an original other world that feels real even though it's so different from the world we inhabit.
Nita and Kit (whose names and personalities are too similar--I kept getting them mixed up as I read) start in the real world as normal kids.
The kids have only been wizards for a few weeks and suddenly they're totally alone and fighting for their lives to find the most important book in the universe?
I'm barely getting to know the world Duane has created and we're already at what feels like the climax!
The beginning was super promising, a totally unique form of magic and how the wizard came across it.
I was here for Nita, totally dug the fact that it was a male/female best friendship and they were both PoC.
I was here for pretty much everything about this book.Except for the fact that it is so...incredibly...boring.
Scenes were dragging, there was no real plot line to speak of, and when it stopped being magical happy fun time with Kit and Nita I was like...meh.
I gave it a shot but on to the next young wizard series.
Loved Nita's abilities to talk to Nature, there was this patch of grass that Nita's father wanted to get rid of.
Nita says, give me some time, she sits on the patch of grass and explains to the grass how her father wanted to rid of them, convinces the grass to go to the neighbour who wanted some grass to grow in his garden and the patch of grass goes to the neighbour.The episode of the cars, which are injured in a skirmish and how they rescue and treat them.Makes you look at every creation with a new sense of awe and respect.
It's fine, I'm fine, everything's normal, I'm not sniffling about trees, that's you, you're the one staring very intently at the ceiling to deal with your feelings about a car, we are not even talking about the moon and the white hole, which didn't happen, EVERYTHING IS FINE don't look at me.
would have suffered even more by comparison with these than they already did with the Greats.As I found myself explaining to a work colleague who is trying to get her 13-year-old son to read more, among the many reasons Duane's Young Wizards books look to be better than Potter is that their would-be wizards are teaching themselves (with a lot of help from the natural world, which is all quite magical if you're just paying attention) instead of slaving over, e.g., potions in a student cauldron in a dreary classroom for a grade.
When she's hiding from said bully in the library after school, she happens across a book called So You Want to Be a Wizard, which turns out to be an actual manual on wizardry that Nita didn't so much find as it sought her out.
I've never seen magic done quite like this before, and the actual story was pretty great.
I think the main trouble here is that Duane was spent too much time on the action of her story, and not enough on the emotion.
So when I spied "So You Want To Be a Wizard" on the shelves at the library I decided to read it and find out what it was all about.It all starts with Nita running away from bullies.
As Nita learns how to cast spells, she meets Kit, who is also training to be a wizard, and together they experience what life as a wizard is like as they meet demonic cars, dragons and even travel in time and across space.This book is so much fun!!!
As Nita was walking into the library, running her fingers over the spines in the children's section, that felt like how I used to as a kid.
I’m pretty sure I should not have had as much trouble getting started in So You Want to be A Wizard by Diane Duane as I did.
A story about a young child who becomes engrossed in books, because of an inattentive parent.
Although not much is made of it in the novel, Kit (Christopher) is in fact Hispanic, and starts to learn magic because he keeps getting beat up because of his accent.I’m not sure if I will read more of these novels.
There is just a ton of them, 10 in all, and I’m not sure I want to invest more time in them.
