https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/126985.All_That_Is_Solid_Melts_Into_Air
The book examines social and economic modernization and its conflicting relationship with modernism.
تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه مارس سال 1999 میلادیعنوان: تجربه مدرنیته؛ نویسنده: مارشال برمن؛ مترجم: مراد فرهاد پور؛ تهران، طرح نو، 1379؛ در 443 ص؛ فروست: فلسفه و فرهنگ؛ شابک: 9645625890؛ چاپ دوم 1380؛ چاپ سوم 1381؛ چاپ هفتم 1387؛ چاپ هشتم 1389؛ موضوع: تمدن جدید در قرن 19 و 20 م - قرن 20 مکتاب شامل: فاوستِ گوته: تراژدی توسعه و رشد؛ هر آنچه سخت و استوار است دود میشود و به هوا میرود: مارکس و مدرنیسم و مدرنیزاسیون؛ بودلر: مدرنیسم در خیابان؛ پترزبورگ: مدرنیسم ِ توسعه نیافتگی؛ دهه ی 1860: انسانِ جدید در خیابان؛ قرنِ بیستم: ظهور و محو ِ شهر؛ در جنگل ِ نمادها: نکاتی پیرامونِ مدرنیسم در نیویورکا.
شربیانی
Most works that try to explicate modernity seem to take the French revolution as their starting point, but Berman's intense, wide-ranging examination is rooted much more in Germanic and Russian thought.
to try and show how the sensibility of modernity itself has developed largely out of literature, and how we can see that sensibility at work in our own age with issues of geography and city planning.
Not only does he offer brilliant examinations of those thinkers and their works, he re-contextualizes them with an intense, deep look of their work in order to develop and back up his own assertions of modern life.
راه حل شیرین اما قابل تردید برمن را با بیان محتوای کتاب بیان میکنمدرباره محتواکتاب برمن از یک مقدمه (به مثابه نقشه راه) و پنج بخش اصلی تشکیل شده استمقدمه اثر به نقد کل گرایی درتفسیر مدرنیته (نقدی متوجه سنت گرایان و پست-مدرنها)، نقد نخبه گرایی افراطی (نقدی متوجه نهضت چپ نو) و نتیجتاً تلاش برای مهم جلوه دادن بازگشت به ریشه های انشقاق و عرضه امکان بازسازی نوعی مدرنیته اصیل، فعال و ریشه دار میپردازدبخش اول با نام «فاوست گوته: تراژدی توسعه و رشد» با خوانشی تمام عیار از فاوست گوته (با حجم یک سوم اما شیوایی دو چندان نسبت به اثر پراهمیتی مثل خوانش فاست لوکاچ) سعی میکند نشان دهد که چگونه مدرنیته از دل عمیق ترین نیازهای انسان سربلند می کند.
He can take four weighty, academic ideas-- the relationship between Faust and modern technology, Baudelaire's conception of Paris, the role of St. Petersburg in Russian modernization, and the effects of modernist planning on New York-- and make them sing and dance.
Especially the New York essay.
Rather, he lets the merits of modernism stand on their own right.
It's best not to read it as an argument, but as an exposition.So he doesn't sound like a curmudgeon.
He does, however, sound like a tragic.
While it's supposed to be a clarion call for modernism, it sounds more like a eulogy.
یکی از خوندنیترین منابع برای درک مدرنیته که هرچند سی و اندی سال میگذره از نوشته شدنش هنوز حرفهاش تازهست. کتاب نه تجربهی سرنگونی اتحاد جماهیر شوروی رو از سر گذرونده، نه انفجار اطلاعات و اینترنت رو و نه فرو ریختن برجهای دوقلو رو. اما قضیه وقتی جالب میشه که میفهمی نویسنده در فصل مربوط به فاوست گوته گریزی هم میزنه به انقلاب کشور ما. مارشال برمن برای تجربه کردن مدرنیته سر زده به سرچشمهها و اسلاف و همین راز موندگاری این کتاب هست. این کتاب خوشخون رو و مخصوصا شاهکار کتاب، فصل مربوط به فاوست رو به همه تو
یکی از خوندنی‌ترین منابع برای درک مدرنیته که هرچند سی و اندی سال می‌گذره از نوشته شدنش هنوز حرف‌هاش تازه‌ست.
اما قضیه وقتی جالب میشه که می‌فهمی نویسنده در فصل مربوط به فاوست گوته گریزی هم می‌زنه به انقلاب کشور ما.
مارشال برمن برای تجربه کردن مدرنیته سر زده به سرچشمه‌ها و اسلاف و همین راز موندگاری این کتاب هست.
این کتاب خوش‌خون رو و مخصوصا شاهکار کتاب، فصل مربوط به فاوست رو به همه توصیه می‌کنم.
در کنار این کتاب سری هم بزنید به "کتاب ادبیات و فلسفه"ای که در سال 1380 چاپ شده.
In the Communist Manifesto, Karl Marx writes the following passage, from which the title of this book is taken:All that is solid melts into air, all that is holy is profaned, and man is at last compelled to face with sober senses his real conditions of life, and his relations with his kind.What Marx was referring to was the nature of modern capitalist economies to mercilessly remake society again and again, taking human beings along for the ride and forcing them to adapt their own external and internal lives to the new world that comes into existence.
• زمانی که مجلهام را بیرون میدادم، در آن از فلسفه و مکانیک کوانتوم گرفته، تا فمینیسم و سینما، ستون مینوشتم. دنیای مدرن، درهای متعددی را نشانت میدهند و انسان مدرن وسوسه میشود هر دری را مقداری باز کند؛ مقداری، و نه بیشتر. ما مدرنیم و هیچ نقش اجتماعیای ما را به طور کامل نمیتواند توصیف کند؛ پس حرص کسب هویتهای بیشتر درمان میجوشد.همهمان تا حدی غذا پختن بلدیم، کار با ماشینلباسشویی، درمان سرماخوردگی، و رانندگی. (و به شکل متناقضی، صنعت در دنیای نو، تخصصی شده. دیگر صفر تا صدِ کشت برنج در زمین کشاورزی را ی
دنیای مدرن، درهای متعددی را نشانت می‌دهند و انسان مدرن وسوسه می‌شود هر دری را مقداری باز کند؛ مقداری، و نه بیشتر.
اما در جامعه‌ی مدرن، تنها «بزرگ فکر کردن» می‌تواند منجر به کوچک فکرکردن و تمرکززدایی شود.توسعه‌ی مدرن فاوستی، به معنای راندن نیاز، فقر، گناه و دلسوزی است.
زمانی که هاله‌ی دور سر شاعری در گل و لای می‌افتد، و به عبارتی هنر مدرن، بجای تحقیر توده‌ی مردم، حیات خود را از آن‌ها و زندگی روزمره می‌گیرد.• از ویژگی‌های دیگر مدرنیسم، کارمند زیرزمینی‌ای است که خواهان برابری با افسران است، و تلاش می‌کند تا با تنه زدن به مافوقان خویش در بلوار نوسکی، از حقارت موش‌وارانه‌ی خود بکاهد.

انديشه‌هايي كه گستره‌اي وسيع را در بر مي‌گيرد: از اشتياق و حرص انسان براي آفرينش يك جهان برتر و پيشرفته و به دنبال آن تلاش براي نابود كردن آخرين كلبه‌ي يك زوج پير، در «فاوست» گوته، جنبشهاي اجتماعيِ توده هاي مردميِ كارگر در مقابل بورژوازي قرن نوزدهِ اروپا در « مانيفست كمونيست» اثر ماركس، تا عمق فاجعه بيماري رواني و تنهايي انسان در عصر مدرن در «يادداشت هاي زير زميني» داستايفسكي؛ و به عكس نشاط و روح‌بخشي زندگي مدرن در تكاپوي پايان ناپذير آن، در بلوارها، آموختن هنر لايي كشيدن از ميان اتومبيل‌هاي در حال گذر براي رسيدن به آن سمت خيابان (بودلر) و حتي در اعتقادات مذهبي و باورهاي خرافي.فصل اول تحت عنوان «فاوست گوته: تراژدي توسعه و رشد» به قرائت اين اثر مي‌پردازد.

It is to be both revolutionary and conservative: alive to new possibilities (13) for experience and adventure, frightened by the nihilistic depths to which so many modern adventures lead, longing to create and to hold on to something even as everything melts (13-14).What I love about Marx, this book, and this aspect of Modernism itself I suppose, is the understanding that the drive to profit through exploitation must be fought, yet that everything is flux and process and overwhelming odds and even so we must 'be undeterred in our determination to face those forces, to fight to change the world and make it our own'.
I love the Marx quote that this book is titled after and centred around:All that is solid melts into air, all that is sacred is profaned, and men at last are forced to face… the real conditions of their lives and their relations with their fellow men.As well as having a beautiful ring to it, this statement proves fruitful as a means of discussing what modernism and modernisation are in different historical, geographical, and disciplinary contexts, as well as the dialectic between them.
Clearly I need to read some more books on this, as the cross-disciplinary perspective taken by Berman is very thought-provoking.
Berman's point is clear and casts an important light -- his notion of modernity and, far more importantly to me, the claim that modernity has deep roots that should be nourishing and renewing (wonderful!). But his method of getting the reader there is not sound. I'm glad to have spent some hours reading in it - but it's enough.
/ 154-155Nihilizm sorunu Marx’m, bir sonraki satırında yine ortaya çıkar: “Burjuvazi her türlü kişisel onur ve saygınlığı değişim değeri içinde eritti; insanların uğruna savaştığı tüm özgürlüklerin yerine ilkesiz bir tek özgürlüğü koydu: serbest ticaret.” Burada ilk önemli nokta piyasanın modern insanların iç yaşamları üzerindeki müthiş etkisidir: insanlar sadece ekonomik soruların değil, metafizik soruların -neyin değerli, neyin onurlu, hatta neyin gerçek olduğu gibi soruların- yanıtlarını bulmak için de fiyat listesine bakmaktadırlar.

Finally we go to the "forest of signs" that is New York in the 20th century, Berman's homeland and the place that gave him his lifelong fascination with the concept of "modern times".
He argues well that the aesthetic movement of modernism diverged away from the practical politics of modernisation just before the mid century, and illustrates this with the career of Robert Moses, the planner-supreme he rose to power in the Depression and demolished acres of old communities for the sake of new highways and a more detached, remotely-connected model of urban life, which was finally challenged and halted.
كتاب شامل ِ اين فصلهاست: فاوستِ گوته: تراژديِ توسعه و رشد -- هر آنچه سخت و استوار است دود ميشود و به هوا ميرود: ماركس و مدرنيسم و مدرنيزاسيون -- بودلر: مدرنيسم در خيابان -- پترزبورگ: مدرنيسم ِ توسعهنيافتگي -- دههي 1860: انسانِ جديد در خيابان -- قرنِ بيستم: ظهور و محو ِ شهر -- در جنگل ِ نمادها: نكاتي پيرامونِ مدرنيسم در نيويورك. مدرن بودن يعني اسير شدن در چنگِ سازمانهاي بوروكراتيكِ عظيمي كه قادر به كنترل و غالبا قادر به تخريبِ همهي احتماعات، ارزشها و جانها هستند؛ و با اين همه دست بسته نبودن در پي

این کتاب اولین مواجهه ی روشمند من با مارکسیسم بودهنوز ضربه ی عمیقی که ازش خوردم رو یادم نمیره..به معنی واقعی معرکه ست
This is a difficult book to review because of how broad and complex Berman's subject matter is.
The old has continued to be swept away by the new, and Berman moves on to classic Russian literature of Dostoevsky and Gogol, finding the social relationships between classes, races, neighbors also destroyed and recreated as technology advances and modernity marches on.
He ends the book with an interesting engagement with the city of New York and the brutality of Robert Moses' systems of highways that destroyed huge swaths of established neighborhoods throughout the Bronx.
It's a difficult book to read at times, especially the textual analysis of old Russian literature.

modernite uzerine yazilmis belki de en iyi kitap. allah bu insanliga bir daha faust'u, kapital'i yazdirtmasin dedirtiyor.
Interesante estudio histórico, sociológico y antropológico sobre el constante proceso de destrucción, construcción y re-creación de la Modernidad.
Que el crecimiento técnico sea tan poderoso como el del espíritu.
Analizando autores como Goethe, Marx y Baudelaire, Marshall Berman, propone una nueva forma de estudiar la Modernidad y su impacto en la vida rural, la vida urbana, la vida cotidiana y la vida pública de los seres humanos.
Es utilizado por Berman que en la Modernidad todo es perecedero, todo busca su destrucción y su circulación, sintetiza de forma brillante la Modernidad esta idea de que todo lo sólido se desvanece en el aire.
decent overview, a bit cursory in places with a description of stalinism as Goethian and some trotskyite moralising w/r/t third-worldism, not to mention a useless summary of post-structuralism, but otherwise largely successful at delineating the nineteenth century roots of modernist movements. solid introduction to the proto-revisionist currents in the study of nineteenth and twentieth century literatures todayperry anderson i think gets to the heart of the book's problems in his NLR review which describes it as an attempt to recover a lost classicism to modernism, which might be far more of a retrospective construction than berman realises
(referencing the Manhattan Project, my link to Trump) On MarxFor Marx - For all the marvelous modes of activity the bourgeoisie has opened up, the only activity that really means anything to its members is making money, accumulating capital, piling up surplus value; all their enterprises are merely means to this end, in themselves of no more than transient and intermediary interest.Main dictums of the Manifesto:1)If the good life is a life of action, why should the range of human activites be limited to those that are profitable?2) And why should modern men, who have seen what man’sactivity can bring about, passively accept the structure of their society as it is given?
He does so by considering the politics and ethics of five modernist moments: Goethe's Faust, Marx's politics, Baudelaire’s literary and peripatetic life and writings in post-Haussmann Paris, and the design, construction and literary life of St Petersburg, and design of and residence in New York.At first these may seem an unusual group of things to use to explore the development and experience of modernity – but in Berman's hands these disparate moments expose the social changes and dizzying transformation of life, morality, philosophy, economics, and politics that brought at least the European and Anglo-worlds into capitalism, with its new ways of life and exploitation, art, literature, ideas of the good life, and cultural practices.
His thesis, that modernity sweeps the past and present ruthlessly aside in constant favor of present action toward achieving an ethereal future of technological and societal betterment, comes attached with a continuous commentary on the West's obsession with roadways, architecture, and city planning.
Berman acknowledges that modernity appears able to sweep almost anything and everyone aside.
Also unique to Berman and his "famous" book is the achievement of impressing upon a reader why preserving a cultural dialectic with the past is important, regardless of your politics or whether you've read Das Kapital all the way through.

Un estudio muy enfocado en la relación entre el modernismo y la modernidad a través del análisis de textos célebres de distintas épocas, enfocándose en Baudelaire, Goethe, Nueva York de los 60's y la Rusia zarista.
También tiene una visión medio naive del capitalismo, típica de escritor norteamericano de los 80's, y su miedo a meterse con el postmodernismo o a tener una visión autoreferencial del metamodernismo es un poco retrógrado.
Pero en sí es un libro muy interesante desde el lado del análisis histórico y muy bello desde el lado del análisis de la retórica de los más grandes escritores del siglo pasado.
This is a really hard book to classify. Its premise is to take a particularly haunting phrase from the Communist Manifesto and discuss the dislocating effects of modernity in an impressionistic way. I found it really hard to get into because it seemed a bit sentimental and earnest, and then I felt bad about myself for being such a cynical shrew. I do, after all, feel like the world is a better place with Marshall Berman in it.I'd actually really like to read this with undergraduates someday.
A dazzling account of the impact and meaning of modernity. Berman's depth of understanding, his erudition and his ability to convey the range of emotional and intellectual responses to modernity is breathtaking. He sweeps across history, philosophy, literature, art and architecture with enormous knowledge and insight. His writing both humbles and elevates the reader. This is a book I had been meaning to read for a long time and I am glad I stopped procrastinating.
A Marxist cultural study that really illuminates who and what we are as moderns. There are chapters on Goethe, Marx, Baudelaire, and Russian Literature--all amazingly insightful. In many ways, I will keep this book by my side, as I will delve into it often. Not the most easy reading, of course, but extremely enlightening.
