https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/241934.Sunset_Express
I should probably be embarrassed, but I didn't realize until reading other reviews that the plot of Sunset Express, sixth in the Elvis Cole series, was a take on the O.J. Simpson case.
This was easily one of the stronger stories of the series, with solid plotting, characterization that felt both real and appropriate, and an ending that dared step outside the mystery format box.
For those who might be tempted to read out of order (as I did), there is a sub-arc through the series about a woman Cole meets in book 5 that continues to develop here.
Millionaire restauranteur Teddy Martin is charged with his wife's murder and hires celebrity attorney Jonathan Green, who hires Elvis Cole to prove an LAPD detective planted evidence.
I like Elvis's relationship with Lucy and Ben quite a bit, even though he fell for her a little too quickly.
I'm hoping their relationship actually goes somewhere and she doesn't Susan Silverman the rest of the series for me.Elvis and Joe Pike do what they do best: wander around, pissing people off, until the shooting starts.
Crais is a good mystery writer and this is another worthwhile entry in the Elvis Cole series.
Elvis finds himself performing as a reluctant clown in a media circus as he tries to get at the truth.Published in 1996, it’s pretty obvious that Crais was thinking of the O.J. trial when he came up with this, but he changes it up enough so that it doesn’t feel like a ripped-from-the-headlines type story.
Throw in a gazillion lawyers, Cole's love interest and her son in for a visit, and a cop who's under suspicion for planting evidence, and it's a fun ride.A hotshot restaurant king's wife has been kidnapped and now killed, and his high powered legal team wants Elvis to check out leads to get their client off the hook.
Most of the action is condensed towards the end of the novel, but the fun is in getting there.1st reading - Elvis, World's Greatest Private Investigator, is back in L.A. after his Southern expedition.
I loved it and it shows the basic foundation of the Elvis style and the Crais plotting which captured me in the later books with which I started.
Now I need to continue backwards, because this is really a well-written, and plot gripping, tension - inducing read.
This is a fine example of why I read this genre and why I am constantly looking for the best of the best in Crime/thriller fiction.
Robert Crais is one of the best of the best, easily above many others in this genre.
I like a lot of these contemporary crime fiction writers and am always looking for recommendations.
As usual, Robert Crais delivers sheer pleasure. Everything seems just right with this book. Tight, tight, tight story-telling. Perfect dialogue. Great Joe Pike and Elvis Cole action. It's possible to read this in one day. That way you can read it every day. It would be quite a few before getting tired of it.
I'm getting down to the last few Coles I haven't read, and it'll be a bit of a bummer to be all caught up because I've enjoyed them so much. This one works nicely with its less-than-neat ending, and stands as one of the highlights of a great series.
Elvis Cole agrees to join the investigative team of lawyer Jonathan Green in defending Hollywood restaurateur Teddy White against charges of killing his wife.
But things don't quite add up, and the inevitable conspiracy starts!A more exciting thriller was hiding somewhere inside these pages, but kind of got lost between the relationship build-up and drama of Elvis and Lucy, and too much description.
As it is, by the end, (view spoiler)[we still don't know why Teddy killed his wife!
Elvis Cole and Joe Pike are hired by the Big Green Defense Machine to help find evidence that Jonathan Green’s latest client is indeed innocent of killing his wife.
However, Cole soon begins to suspect that not everything is as it appears in this case.
Or has he been played?This is definitely one of the stronger entries in the series with an intriguing mystery that twists and turns until we reach a non- dues ex machina ending.
We get some appearances by characters introduced in earlier books, which is quite fun.
Still, this is the strongest in the series yet.Read my full review at Carstairs Considers.
I really enjoyed this 6th book in the Elvis Cole series.
Another really good, entertaining read. They've ALL been good. I do have the next 2-3 in the series at hand, so I should get a good start on completing all the books by the end of 2018.
Wise-cracking, compassionate, tough-but-lovable, and an all-around good guy---the kind you'd definitely want in your corner---Elvis Cole, in this novel, is at a turning point in his life.
New evidence arises that suggests detective Angela Rossi, the arresting officer, may have planted incriminating evidence on Martin.
Green hires Cole to investigate the allegations against Rossi, which he does.
His investigation turns up nothing to suggest Rossi's guilt.
When he tells Green the results of his investigation, Cole thinks the matter is done.
Then, Green mysteriously uncovers several new witnesses that would confirm Rossi's wrongdoing.
Elvis Cole is one crackerjack P.I. who easily says, he's 'the greatest detective in the world.' Yeh, he's a little cocky but he is very good at what he does and he's got Joe Pike as his backup.
Pike would make any one just a little cocky.So many things to love about Elvis...besides his name if you're an Elvis P.
Has that attitude going but Elvis still pampers him and loves him by giving him Bumble Bee White Tuna, which is his most favorite thing.
"That and field mice," says Elvis.
I'm a little partial to Elvis, that's all, and I admit it.
You make your report.
But when the attorney releases your findings to the press, he reports just the opposite of what you discovered.
What's going on here?
It's a mystery inside of a mystery for Elvis Cole.This was my first book by Robert Crais.
I LOVED Elvis and his wise cracking comments.
And even though I kinda figured out what the problem was going to be (a rarity for me), I still enjoyed the book and look forward to reading the rest of the series.
This series is getting to be similar to brain candy for me--extremely satisfying but not a lot of sustenance. I really like Elvis Cole and Joe Pike. This book started out sounding like the plot was pretty straight forward, but it soon became quite complex and exciting. Yes, I do plan to read the next in the series and may start out with the Joe Pike series which has some stories not found in the Elvis Cole books.
The best Elvis Cole novel (to date). Definitely read Voodoo River prior to this one. Reading the end of the book was as close to pumping my fist in the air and screaming like a beer soaked frat boy as I ever need to get. A great detective novel. No. A fucking great detective novel.
Couldn't sleep last night, tossing and turning. To make matters worse, I picked up Sunset Express giving my night hyperactivity something to focus on. Hours later. Done. Now I can't get back to sleep. Damn Crais!
marvellous chicanery and double-dealing - the best Elvis Cole yet
First ending I've read by him where the situation wasn't completely resolved, but it works, it was the right way to end it.
Robert Crais won a Shamus for this one. An excellant read.
Green hires the WGD to try to prove that an LAPD detective named Angela Rossi planted evidence - namely the murder weapon - to make Martin appear guilty.Elvis' investigation doesn't go the way Green wants it to.
Angela Rossi seems clean and dedicated to her job and it looks like Martin is guilty.Green thanks Elvis for his work and moves on.
Angela and her partner, Dan Tomsic, are compelling as well, and one hopes to see them again in later Cole and Pike mysteries.Lucy and her son, Ben, serve to soften the characters of Cole and Pike and give them a deeper dimension, but I could have done with a bit fewer sloppy moments of touching and significant glances between Lucy and Elvis.
Hollywood bigshot is arrested for his wifes murder. Cole is brought on by the defense team to follow up on leads, and uncovers what appears to be evidence that the client is innocent. More relationship with Lucy from the previous book. This was ok, decent story, but it wasn't a page turner for me. I do like how Crais doesn't always follow a formulaic conclusion. Some language.
As always, absurd, improbable, and entertaining.
Since thousands of reviews have been written, not only on this book, but on the entire Elvis Cole series, I will not spend time rehashing either the storyline or the writing attributes of Robert Crais.
Crais did a marvelous job of hiding that person in plain sight for nearly 300 pages.Finally, this is the second appearance of Lucy Chenier, the Baton Rouge attorney with whom Elvis has fallen in love.
As she is apparently a recurring character in the series for several more entries, many reviewers have compared her to Susan, Spenser’s love interest in Robert B.
As the case twists and turns, Elvis Cole and Joe Pike find themselves involved in a conspiracy.
Who exactly is pulling the levers behind the scenes and who should be the one on trial?Sunset Express is a weaker offering in the Elvis Cole series.
Sunset Express also has the added effect of Cole's love interest: Lucy Chenier.
The action is muted in Sunset Express as well.
The Cole and Pike series (thus far) has walked a fine line between quirky and badass.
Sunset Express leans toward the quirky side with a hint of Lifetime miniseries added in.
Elvis is hired by Jonathan Green to help investigate Susan Martin’s murder and help in the defense of a suspect, her husband, Teddy.
He has a love interest, the lawyer from previous case, Lucy Chenier.
It’s so nice to see Elvis happy and in love.
Lucy comes for a visit to LA with her son Ben. This is a really good book.
Elvis does a good job investigating.
Jonathan Green is up to no good and Elvis is determined to figure it out, with the help of Joe Pike.
I love the little visits of Elvis’s cat.
I really want to like you, but after lots of books in and it still feels like gawky blind dating rather than true love.
Parker’s Spenser novels and that feeling continues here.
It isn’t Crais’ fault that I’m reading these over many years after he wrote them and that they seem dated in a lot of ways to me; having said this, there are still just too many clichés for me to overlook in this.
What saves this book Cole’s quick jokes.
That's pretty darn quick.NB: According to BL/GR/LT this is my 400th/396th/394th book review.
The more I read Mr. Crais's books, the more I enjoy them.
Sunset Express was the sort of book that makes you mad--mad at rich bitch lawyers who take advantage of their position and the public's devotion--mad at how the media vilifies cops & mad at how some police officers put the blame for their misconduct onto others--and it made you pissed at celebrities who think they can get away with anything.
Yep, it was a great book for a mad on!
Then, there's Elvis and Pike and they take the mad stuff and make it a great time taking care of the bad guys.
Great work, Mr. Crais!
Three and a half stars. The Elvis Cole and Joe Pike series are great fun but are nothing more than light entertainments. I started at the beginning of the series and look forward to reading more as I'm led to believe the quality of the writing picks up.
They just keep getting better -
