https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/613497.Hittite_Warrior
This friendship set him on a path that would change his life forever.The book is based during the time of the Judges, which was roughly 1200 B.C. If you have read through the Old Testament book of Judges with your children, they will recognize the two important names of Deborah and Barak.
For example, they will learn about an ancient Ammonite god named Moloch who required the sacrifice of a young child to appease him.This is an A+ historical fiction novel for children 10 and up.
It was quite good, though it was sometimes hard to follow. Also, throughout the whole book, I did not notice things like, "When I was nine" or "3 years later" or "That happened 5 months ago". Overall it was very good and I would recommend it to other readers.
This has got to be one of the worst books ever written. The entire way through, it seemed as if the author was TRYING to confuse the reader, and she did an excellent job at it. Nothing about it was well done...
Terrible. Just terrible.
I found myself lamenting at times that the author had been so apparently accurate with personal names--some of them were a real mouthful!Not having much knowledge of the history of the times of the judges (beyond the biblical history), I felt a bit confused and overwhelmed at times trying to put the pieces together.
Some of the Israelites showed faulty theology at times, too--having calf images that were worshiped in the name of God and talking about human sacrifice as though God condoned it.
It’s good as an ancient history and lit. supplement for 11-12 yr olds. Great effort to intersect various civilizations and cultures during the time of Israel’s judges, and the scenes in the camp of Deborah and Barak I thought were impressive overall. The development and character of the main guy was ok, but something about the last portion of the story— his part in the battle, the Egyptian friend who was suddenly portrayed to have all the answers, and the general spiritual resolution— just didn’t seem to work.
School read aloud during the time of the Biblical Judges. Great for ancient history studies.
4.5 stars
Designed for children but definitely enjoyable for adults. An easy read with rich and well-researched historical detail. It brings to life a period of history that's rarely written about in fiction.
Great example of middle grade historical fiction. Learning by accident. My 11 year old and I both enjoyed this.
M. Loved it - wants to add it to her personal collection.
Not bad. It did a pretty good job of making the history come alive for the kids. We got it because it was on the syllabus for RC history.
One of the worst books I have ever read!!!
Sixth grade me drooled over Hittite Warrior.
Wondering about content?
see The BookSeekerIt’s a beautiful story filled with hardship and the wanderings of a refugee Hittite, in search of a home.
Immersed in the ancient times of the Bible, the book holds to the truth of Scripture and the facts of history, telling the story through the eyes of a Hittite boy.
The spiritual journey of this young man is a beautiful one; one with a satisfying ending and a captivating journey.“I have devoted my life to my new God, whom I have come to believe is the one God and the God of all men.”
God King and the Hittite Warrior is some of my favourite historical/fiction books. Ever.I recommend completely!Oh man, I love these two books! They are awesome!Check out the BookSeeker for content.
One book that I read in my middle school years was Hittite Warrior by Joanne Williamson.
I loved it when I first read it, and I was excited to pick it up again when it was assigned in high school.The story focuses on Uriah, a Hittite who has found himself homeless and without family due to his homeland, Great Hatti, being invaded by the "sea people." He must make his way to Canaan, and eventually, though his adventures, find himself in a war between Canaan and the tribes of the Hebrews.
It was a movement behind one of the bales in the darkest corner of all, and my skin began to crawl.
Now the Hebrew Jotham's decision to save a child from being sacrificed to Moloch forces Uriah to choose life over reverence of Tyre's fearsome god.
I'd still recommend them, but I would say it would be much easier to read this were one already at least somewhat familiar with the setting and some of the characters.
Also, this one described in detail how a child was sacrificed to Molech.
I would prefer my boys be much older than 10 before reading that.
This book was originally published in 1960 -- so I went easy on the historical inaccuracy regarding ancient Egypt.Overall, it was a good read.
So I enjoyed this unique side of things.The character development was a little stunted.
The rest of the development regarding the character's outlook on the gods was good, but the final choice seemed a bit simple.
The main charcter was a little dull though, so I did not find myself eager to keep reading.I think the author does a good job, especially for the time period it was written.
But all in all, an interesting read.
I was young, and annoyed that I had to read a historical fiction book instead of a fantasy, and on top of that I had to write a report on it!
But the real story is about a young Hittite named Uriah who has been hiding and on the run ever since his father was murdered before his eyes.
You will learn many things from this book, especially about what it was like to be an Israelite hiding in the hills and of course the epic journey of Uriah as a Hittite in ancient times.
Uriah-Tarhund is a young man of a rich Hittite family when the Philistines invade his land and strip his world of everything he's known.
So begins this rich book that brings to life a section of Judges.
The story takes Uriah to many historically important places in the ancient world, and illustrates well how ancient cultures clashed again and again over history.
They were able to keep the characters straight and cross reference elements of the story from the Bible.
The narrative really made the Old Testament time of the Judges come to life.
it is historical fiction, and pretty good historical fiction.
I like that we skim over our history textbook and have pretty much covered it all painlessly in a novel.
(It does take longer to read the novel then a chapter from a textbook, but we look forward to the novel, rather than balking at a textbook.) Malachi really liked the book, and that is saying something.
This is our lunchtime history read aloud.
Pretty good.
Malachi finished reading it after we got about 1/3 into the book, but he still comes back at lunchtime to listen to me read aloud.
I read this with my grandson when he was in the third grade.
It was on the extra reading list and had been recommended for his class level.
The story was difficult to read because of the style.
The author did a splendid job in portraying the pagan cultures as she unfolded the Biblical story of Deborah and Barak in the defeat of Sisera.
In one chapter he is transformed from young pagan to an older, honored scribe in the temple.
It is not a book I think younger readers can appreciate.
It seems it would be a better book for those in the 6th or 7th grade.

His family has been killed and he promised his dad to find one of his friends, named Sisera living in Harosheth.
Along the way, he meets some travelers and they become friends.
He meets a boy a little older than himself named Jotham.
But then he finds out that their nephew has to be sacrificed to their God named Moloch.
So, he and Jotham escape into the mountains and meet a Jewish tribe who take them in.
But, after overhearing a discussion about war he realizes that this is the enemy of his father's friend and have evil plans.
I can see that it's not 'poorly written' it's written in a manner that Uriah is looking back on his life.
Having finished it, I can appreciate that.
This was an incredibly interesting story, full of twists and turns and struggles and decently not your usual historical fiction.
Joanne wove so many different cultures and aspects and historical facts, it creates a vivid image and feel of what it was like to live in that time.
I especially appreciate the look at what religion was like back then, that were were an enormous amount of different gods and traditions.
Getting inside these peoples life's, and seeing their mindsets...
This is the next book in my daughter's reading list. Still trying to stay ahead of her.I'm over half way through and it's definitely holding my attention.8/24/09 I finished this one. I really liked it. It was an interesting story and an enjoyable way to make Biblical times seem more real. If you really want to understand it I recommend keeping a list of the characters, their tribes, and where they come from. I read the book very superficially for the story. I don't have all the historical details down.
This book is about a boy who's father was killed and his land was taken over by another land.
Before his father died he told him to go see this man because the man was a friend of his father and would help him survive.
So he travles far and wide in search of the man.
He makes manny friends along the way.
After he finds the man the man askes the boy to fight a war with him agints the Palistine.
They end up losing the war.
Which creates alot of trouble.
So he runs away with his friend to survive.
It was good but there was not a lot of detail about Uriah who was the main character. It talked much more about the other characters and I wanted to know more about him. I liked the theme of the story - how the Jews wanted to take back their land and how the Jews had their one special God who helped them. The other nations - the Egyptians and the Hittites had other gods that were not as powerful.
It is a fun little story. It depicts the fall of one of the greats civilizations of its time know to man. The time line is hard to trace, but it does seem, now that we have more info pertaining to the Hittites that some time warping is involved for this story to work. So without giving away any of the story...read it for yourself or to a younger sibling...Just do not be surprised if you find yourself reading it by after your younger sibling has gone to bed. Robert L.D.CLR
