https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27821486-don-t-you-cry
My experience thus far with Mary Kubica: I read The Good Girl and, while I enjoyed it and found it extremely well written for a debut novel, didn’t think it lived up to all the hype it received.
The book is kicked off when Quinn discovers her roommate “Saint Esther” is missing and she finds a suspect note in her room, making her question just how well she knows her roommate after all.“And that’s when it hit me: maybe Saint Esther isn’t such a saint, after all.”Simultaneously, a mysterious woman shows up at the coffee shop that Alex works at; he’s clearly all teenage boy as he oogles her, finding out eventually that her name is Pearl.
Bad. Oh so very bad. Pages upon pages of prattling on about nothing. Literally nothing happens in this book until the final 30 pages and even that action is overwrought and implausible. Oddest vocabulary choices on top of a terribly written book. Ugh.ARC from publisher.
The book opens on a Sunday morning in Chicago and is told at first from Quinn Collins point of view.
Irritated with the noise, Quinn gets out of bed to see why on earth Esther has not turned it off yet.
"I should have known right away that something wasn't right".Quinn isn't sure what to do as she doesn't know Esther's parents or anyone else to call.
As the book alternates from Quinn's point of view to Alex's it almost felt like I was reading two different, but interesting stories.
I think even if I had figured out what was happening I would still have enjoyed this book.
Quinn wakes up one morning to her roommate Esther’s alarm, but no Esther.
Realizing the police might not care so much at this point, Quinn starts trying to figure out where Esther could have gone..Without evidence of foul play, we can’t immediately think something criminal has happened.
The two stories are seemingly disconnected, though you know somewhere down the line it will all come together.
It pulls me in captivating until I get to the very last page.
This is something that assures I will keep reading what she writes.
They were hard to connect to making the mystery and Kubica’s strong writing what naturally kept me reading.
The beginning was shaky but it all came together in the end!
It had pretty good narration.
It was a little precarious in the beginning but the two narrators did a descent job in the end.
This is worth reading or listening to JUST for the ending!!!
Love when that happens!This novel is told from two different viewpoints.
Each with it's own narrator.I almost passed on this book.
"The Good Girl" is my favorite novel of hers.
This is now my second favorite.
This is another book in which it's BEST not to read many reviews for fear of spoilers.Recommended for mystery and thriller lovers!!!
Quinn faces into the bone-chilling wind coming through that window and into the stark reality that Esther is missing.A parallel story takes place along the shores of that frozen lake in a small Michigan harbor outside of Chicago.
Alex takes on the duty of caregiver to his alcoholic father who spends the entire story in a booze coma.
Alex follows her and the story takes a shaky, no-going-back direction.Now, while I enjoyed Don't You Cry, I couldn't help but take a harder look at these characters.
Quinn and Alex are conduits for the flow of the story current.
This is aptly titled because I really wanted to cry reading this.
Some of the most atrocious prose ever.
Monotone.
Boring.
Clipped sentences.
Trite language.
Excruciating excessive minutiae of mundane things.
(Big words like that not included though.) Like this: She took her hat off.
She took her scarf off.
It was black.
She looked out the window.
Her eyes were brown.
She drank coffee.
And the plot is nonexistent as far as what I read.
I may be totally crazy but I see quite a few other reviewers felt like this.
★★Don't You Cry is a standalone, mystery novel written by Mary Kubica. Although the majority of goodreads reviews are rated at 4 and 5 stars, I didn't quite have the same experience throughout. While I thought the big reveal at the end was certainly whiplash worthy (in a good way), the journey there was a very slow ride for me personally. Add to that my difficulty connecting with the characters in both parallel storylines and it ended up falling in the "just OK" category in my opinion. (view spo
(view spoiler)[Maybe it was the female lead's repetitive internal question, "Where is Esther?" - yes we know she's missing, stop reminding us.
Maybe it was all the conclusion-jumping in an effort to lead the reader elsewhere.
(hide spoiler)] I kept wanting to skip to the end but I was certain I would miss something critical (but I didn't IMO).
Just so you know, if you have a similar experience, the female lead sums up everything in a nice little narrative at the end.
They need someone to blame."Don't You Cry is Mary Kubica's third published novel.
Mary Kubica gives readers another page-turner with her latest book, "Don't You Cry." While not exactly edge-of-your-seat suspenseful, readers will want to puzzle out what exactly is going on and who, if anyone, might be at risk of danger.
The writing is tight, the pace is fast, and readers who love a good thriller won't be disappointed.
Readers will have to suspend disbelief for one element of the story, but Kubica is forgiven because the story is so entertaining.I've kept this review purposefully vague because I dislike when too much is given away (even unintentionally) in suspense/thriller reviews.
Top 50 Books of 2016!When you think Mary Kubica could not possibly top  THE GOOD GIRL (2014) and  PRETTY BABY  (2015) ....
landing on my Top 10 Book list for both years; out of nowhere, fizzing along like a slow-burning fuse: Here comes DON'T YOU CRY (2016).
My Prediction: Best Book for Movie Adaptation and Top Thriller of 2016.
My personal reading experience: Kubica, being one of my favorite authors - DON'T YOU CRY  was calling out to me.
Would you walk out of a movie in the middle of the best part?
Without a doubt, one of the best psycho-thrillers I have ever read.
The novel appears to be a very slow book and when I started to tell my wife about how much I was enjoying it I realised that although I was loving the read hardly anything of note had happened.
I can see that this may not appeal to everyone but I enjoyed the slow build up to a climax you know is going to happen, but when.The story is about a young woman named Esther Vaughan who disappears from her apartment without a trace.
This was just ok for me. I really liked The Good Girl and Pretty Baby by this author a lot more.
Quinn knows she’s not the best flatmate in the world and when she answered an add for a room she knew she’d be stretching herself financially.
The police aren’t really interested, taking the view she’s an adult and will most likely return within a few days.Alex lives in a small town some way outside of Chicago, but on the shoreline of Lake Michigan.
His dad is a drunk who doesn’t work, so Alex is the bread winner.
I began to care as much for the fate of Quinn and Alex as I did for the missing Esther: I really wanted both to have better lives.
The way the author chose to tell the story, with two very different storylines and two distinct voices, led the way to a pretty great ending.
One that made me like the story a little bit more.Quinn is a twenty-something living in Chicago that wakes up to find her roommate is gone.
Alex and Quinn’s stories merge together in the end for a shocking conclusion.
I found it to be overly detailed and her word usage made me feel like she had a thesaurus handy.
Quinn, a young single girl trying to make her way in life in the heart of Chicago, and Alex, who lives in a small Michigan town.
Kubica delivers a solid ending with an unexpected twist that I didn't think would happen.This one really held my interest and being from Chicago I loved the intimate feel I shared by knowing where this was taking place.
She really knows how to put her readers right there in the scenes as they take place.So far so good...I have loved everything this author has put out, and hope it continues this way!
Searching through Esther's possessions for some clue as to where she may have gone, Quinn discovers that Esther may not have been the person she believed her to be.Just out of Chicago eighteen year old Alex Gallo becomes entranced by a mysterious woman who appears in the coffee shop where he works.
This is a haunting story that began with an innocuous lie many years earlier, a lie told to protect a child, a lie that will come back to endanger the lives of all those involved.Don't You Cry is told from Alex's and Quinn's points of view.
Alex's fascination with 'Pearl', a woman older than he is, and one whom he both covets and longs to protect.
It is told from the POV of Quinn, whose flatmate goes missing in Chicago and Alex, a lonely cafe worker who becomes aware of a newcomer in a small harbour town on Lake Michigan.
Quinn begins to discover things about Esther that unsettle her.
What happened to Kelsey, the previous flatmate of Esther?
Her death cast suspicion on Esther and Quinn begins to fear for her own life.
An air of menace is beginning to develop.In the meantime, Alex is drawn into the life of the disturbing Pearl.
He has needs and develops fantasies about Pearl.
First time was on Net Galley.Her secound book was sent to me via her Publicist.
Did I heck.I had to download this and as I was reading this I thought this was a slow burner, what's happening.As I read though, it was like someone had light a bomb on a huge line......it was sizzling undercurrent and slowly moving along.
This was just like it, the excitement building up in me with eagerness of wanted to shout "C'mon I need to know".I loved all of her books, this one just has the edge.*My thanks to Harlequin (US & Canada) via Net Galley for my copy to read and review*
When Esther disappears, her roommate Quinn realizes just how little she knew about the person she considered her best friend.
Perhaps most terrifying of all is what happened to Esther's last roommate.
Quinn starts to suspect the girl she's lived with for the past year just might be a monster, and she might be next to die...Alex is eighteen and trapped in a small town with no future.
Every day is exactly like the last until a girl he calls Pearl comes into town.
But Pearl is not what she seems...This book is told from the perspective of both Quinn and Alex.

I was lucky enough to get an early peak at Mary Kubica's sure to be blockbuster third novel. Kubica is a master of surprising twists and this book is no exception. Every time I thought I had it figured out, she went in another direction. Great characters, atmosphere and suspense blend perfectly in this impossible to put down thriller.
One of the worst books I've read in a long while. What makes it stand out, in a bad way, is all the hype this received. Following Kubica's first two novels, each of which were decent thrillers, she follows up with this snoozer of a novel. Not sure what she was going for. There is little to no suspense or likeable characters. The prose is stilted and distracting and the 'twist' , which comes far too late to save this drippy novel, is ho-hum at best A must to avoid if you are looking for a solid psychological thriller.
She flips and flops between the two emotions, while searching for clues to Esther’s disappearance, uncovering information that paints Ester in a whole new light, exposing a dark side of her that is nothing at all like the 'Saint Ester' Quinn thought she knew, which shocks Quinn and keeps her in a chronic state of panic, wondering if something horrible has happened to her roommate, or if Quinn is a possible target.
Reading this book was like watching the characters from afar, unable to get a close-up shot of them.
Def. the best Mary Kubica book I've read yet! So many plot twists!
Mary Kubica does it again! Don't You Cry, an artfully crafted, wickedly smart page-turner about the razor thin line between suspicion and obsession, will keep you glued to its pages--and guessing wrong about who to trust--until its breathless ending.
Don't You Cry has a slow start which leads to quite a build up of page turning suspense and a startling conclusion.The story is told by Quinn and it begins when she discovers her roommate Esther is missing.
Uncertain as to what to do Quinn finds signs that Esther might be in danger.
Alex, also a narrator, is a struggling young man who, instead of going to college with his friends, remains at home with his pitiful alcoholic father.
A strange girl appears at the cafe where Alex works and he becomes fascinated with her.
Very secretive and a tad peculiar Alex wonders why she is in town and what is she hiding.
$1.99 on kindle today 6-2-17
AlderMary Kubica, the national best-selling American author, pens her new psychological thriller, Don't You Cry that unfolds a gripping and mystifying story about two women among whom one of them goes missing all of a sudden leaving that woman's roommate baffled and curious about the fact whether she really knows her as she used to think, and the other woman reaches a small dead-end town, leaving especially an eighteen year old boy suspicious as well as infatuated not only with her beauty but also with her innocence.
Quinn Collins and Esther Vaughan are friends and roommates that share a Chicago walk-up apartment.
In Alex's sections he talks about taking care of his alcoholic father; his grief over the desertion of his mom; his exacting boss and crappy job; the agoraphobic woman living near the diner; and his obsession with Pearl, whom he secretly watches and follows.
Additonally, Alex talks a lot about the 'haunted house' across the street from his residence, said to harbor the ghost of a deceased five-year-old girl.Though I was curious about the unfolding events in the story this wasn't a riveting book to me.
Mary Kubica again delivers in her masterfully written new novel, “Don’t You Cry”.
The story is told from the vantage point of two protagonists- Quinn is a young woman who is quietly spending her days at her menial job, trying to deny her feelings for her very-not-available best friend Ben, until the day her roommate goes missing.
Quinn finds mysterious items among her roommates’ belongings (mysterious letters, legal applications for change of name) and she begins to question if her roommate is who she thought she was- and if she, or her roommate, are truly in danger.
However, I think Kubica stands completely on her own.
