https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7347.The_Book_of_Lost_Tales_Part_One
3.5 starsMy first attempt to read _The Book of Lost Tales_ was made way too early in my life and made certain that my response was to put it on the shelf and decide that all of this background stuff, especially taken from this early phase in Tolkien’s life as a writer, was way too different from the Middle-Earth stories that I loved for me to waste any time on it.
STOP: Ask yourself if you read and enjoyed The Silmarillion?If the answer is 'yes', then you might like this book.If the answer is 'no, I haven't read The Silmarillion', then read that before this book.If the answer is 'no, I don't like like The Silmarillion', then you won't like this book.This book will give you insight into the early thoughts and ideas that eventually became the Silmarillion. If you are or want to be a hardcore Tolkien fan then this book is a must, but for most casual fans of Lord of the Rings and The Hobbit it isn't.
"A story must be told or there'll be no story, yet it is the untold stories that are most moving. I think you are moved by Celebrimbor because it conveys a sudden sense of endless untold stories: Mountains seen far away, never to be climbed, distant trees never to be approached - or if so only to become near trees..."
Having read The Hobbit, The Lord of the Rings, and The Silmarillion many times since I was a teen, as well as Tolkien's papers, letters, and biographies, I decided it was time to go the last mile and read his son Christopher's annotated compilation of the Professor's earlier drafts.
What's more, all the tales in this volume are presented as having been told around a fire to Eriol, a traveler visiting the Elves living on the island of Tol Eressea.
These stories contain Tolkien’s first conceptions of Middle Earth, written in notebooks, the first of which he started in high school.
It appears obvious Tolkien read a mass amount of mythology and fell in love with it in childhood and in his young-adult years.
The skill of his storytelling overwhelms me.Eriol, a mortal man visits Tol Eressia (an ancient Elvish city of Middle Earth) and sits to listen to tales of history.
Reading this, for me, is like entering that dream and attaining that unreachable desire.He covers content in the Silmarillion, but in-depth.
It also covers periods of change over the creation which will inevitably become Middle-Earth.
But the downside to this is that it isn't very fun to read.
You can only read yetanother version of Beren and Luthien so many times before you're tired of seeingthe miniscule changes from one version to the next.So, overall, I slogged through this over about a year.
I'd say it was worth itin the end for someone like me who loves Tolkien and his entire created worldof Arda (and Ea in general).
But I'll never re-read them.
They come off too muchas seeming like Christopher Tolkien just bundled every scrap of paper he could find,rather than thinning them down into a logical consistency.
Auch wenn ich für den Band verhältnismäßig lang gebraucht habe, bedeutet das nicht, dass ich keinen Spaß hatte. Vielmehr hat er so viel Inhalt, dass ich nicht zu viel auf einmal lesen konnte. Sicherlich nur für Leute interessant, die die Geschichten im Silmarillion mochten und vor allem mehr zu Tolkiens Schaffungsprozessen wissen möchten. Ich bin beim Lesen so tief abgetaucht, dass es mir tatsächlich vorkam, als würde ich ein richtiges historisches Buch lesen. Mittelerde und Co. sind für mich nochmal um ein Vielfaches gewachsen <3
After his father died, Christopher Tolkien first compiled, edited, and published The Silmarillion and then later made this twelve volume (yes, twelve!) set of what is essentially all of his father's unpublished and generally unfinished writings.
I've read the Silmarillion a couple of times, so I'm generally pretty familiar with the story.
This is like reading Tolkien's first draft of The Silmarillion, which is a little bit weird.
After each chapter, Christopher Tolkien describes how each story evolved into the final story in The Silmarillion.
So much that you're willing to essentially sit back in a college-level literary analysis course.The stories are magical, and definitely "Tolkienesque", but at times it can be a tough read.That's primarily because most of what Christopher Tolkien (J.R.R.'s son) used to put this -- not to mention the rest of the History of Middle-Earth series -- together were fragments of stories, sometimes three or more different versions.There is a lot of academic-style commentary, complete with name comparisons, investigations of intentional vs.
scrapped pieces of story, notes of geography of Middle-Earth gleaned from the tales, and so on.If you don't like that kind of commentary, go ahead and skip right to the stories.
This book is real gem and beacon to all blurred and unclear parts in the final version of The Silmarillion.
This book is missing link to onset of Tolkien's creation of his own mythology.
It's all about Valar and their deeds in creation of Arda.
Also, Valar and their traits are much more developed than in The Silmarillion (but many details from The Silmarillion are unmentioned or were unknown then).
Also, I recognized many Tolkien's inspirations from Norse mythology that he wove into this tales (e.g. when Orome created rainbow-bridge, or when Vanna cut off her hair for Gods to weave sails and ropes for the boat of Sun etc.).
Ever since I started reading J.R.R. Tolkiens books this month I had this strong urge to read the short stories and learn more about the "middle-earth." Now, I haven't officially read all of his books or the different series he has written that are set in the middle-earth but I still found these stories highly entertaining.
I really liked how Christopher took his dads work and made it into the book of lost tales.
And now after reading these I'm even more pumped to read the rest of J.R.R's books.
I seriously can't wait and I'm definitely going to read the second part of these lost tales.
Oft time names were changed from story to story and Christopher had to decipher outlines and light pencil markings.
Eriol becomes hesitant.In the beginning Illuvatar created the Ainur and the rest of the universe by making music.
Later when the Valar have crafted their hall, Melkor destroy the light.
the three elves go back and Orome leads them through the Great Land to the shores of the West were Ulmo transports them on an island (which Tol Erresea).
Ulmo uses this later to lead them to Valinor.Unchaining Melkor might not have been such a great idea.
Overall I liked this one, lots depth and inside backstory into the development of, and earlier discarded versions of, what would eventually become the Silmarillion, all researched and expertly presented by Christopher Tolkien, and as always great history into Middle Earth, but even more so into the writing process and the writer’s working evolution as they craft their unique story.
Tolkien's series of linked short stories were written in his spare time from his academic career and family obligations; once he decided to abandon the Lost Tales and start over, he probably did not expect that they would ever see the light of day - this is essentially a private set of thoughts whose author did not deem them ready for publication.The book offers insights into the process of writing, crafting and drafting, trying to get it right, over the decades which led to Tolkien's great works.
This is the first volume of Tolkien's short stories that I've read and although I enjoyed the stories themselves I did miss his usual epic endings (many of the stories here are incomplete hints at greatness) and I wasn't so keen on the lengthy notes and commentary.
I think I would've preferred something more concise with each tale and longer notes to the back where I could refer to them if I wanted to.
That's just my preference though and I'm sure many will love the length and detail of these.
This is the first of a 12-book series written by JRR Tolkien's son, Christopher Tolkien. After his father died, his son collected and studied both his father's published and unpublished works, and decided to organize them into a readable collection, complete with explanations and footnotes. For anyone who loved the Lord of the Rings and hungers for more; also for anyone who is curious about how Tolkien developed his imagined world in the first place.
If you are even a little bit curious about the history of Middle Earth, this is an essential volume. This, along with part 2, elucidate some of the more obscure mythological beginnings of Arda. The commentary section at the end of each 'chapter' is very enlightening both linguistically and in terms of the development of certain motifs that crop up in Tolkien's works.I would suggest reading this after The Silmarillion (which is considered the polished product of the tales in these volumes). It may seem repetitive, but it is fascinating to see where these stories started and ended.
If you wanted to know how things came about in Middle Earth and the Undying Lands, this is a wonderful book to have for informational reference. From tales about the chaining of Melko ('Melko' was the original name, but it seems few people know that - perhaps they didn't read the book ;) ), to the coming of the Eldar, and the awakening of Men, the stories in this book are essential to fully understand the beginnings of Tolkien's world.
The Book of Lost Tales, Part One (The History of Middle-Earth #1), J.R.R. Tolkien, Christopher Tolkien (Editor)
This book was about the beginning of Middle Earth (even though it is not called that yet) all these stories Tolkien wrote when he was young...all these poems I had never read before.
Light like liquid silver distilled from its bole and dripped to the earth, and it shed a very great illumination about the plain, yet it was that not as wide as the light of the tree of gold..."I love his descriptions of light being liquid.
But there were also beautiful moments and I loved it.This is a good book for any Tolkien lovers out there.
Christopher Tolkien'in kitap boyunca bazı açıklamaları gereksizlik seviyesinde tekrarlansa da, tolkien kurgusal evreninin gelişim aşaması yerel mitlerin, bölgelerin, tarihi karakterlerin bu kurgudaki yerleri ve son halini alana kadar geçirdiği değişimlere detaylı şekilde yer veren, okuyanın kurgunun dil yapısı hakkında bilgisinin bir hayli artacağını düşündüğüm başarılı bir derleme.
Çevirilerin yol açtığı bazı yanlış anlaşılmaların dışında okunmasını tavsiye ederim.
Örneğin, Noldor,eski hali ''gnom'' berenin insan olarak değiştirilmesinden önce elf olması ve gnom denmesi bunun da çeviride genel ''gnom'' anlayışı nedeniyle ''cüce'' diye çevrilmesi gibi durumlarda kafa karışıklığı yaratması.
6:45 çevirilerinde rastlanılması ilginç bir durum değil zaten,tek alternatif olmadığı sürece kaçınılması gerektiğini söylememe gerek yoktur herhalde...
The Book of Lost Tales contains the very earliest writings by Tolkien on the mythology that would eventually make up The Silmarillion and the glimpses of the history of Middle-earth seen in Lord of the Rings.
It should also be noted that The Book of Lost Tales is harder going than your typical Tolkien because the writing style is more archaic – and honestly, if you struggled with Rings, if you struggled with The Silmarillion, you're most likely to struggle even more with this.
It is as if Tolkien went out of his way to ruin good ideas with bad execution.
Occasionally, Tolkien stops tripping over himself long enough for you to enjoy the story, but it's only a matter of time before you awake in a daze, realizing that you've just "read" three pages belike it is of syntactic string cheese flavored with archaic words about gods Valar weeping over somesuch as was their wont of old to be.I defy all 4+ star reviewers.
If this book was the only thing published by Tolkien the 1-2 star reviews would be legion.
In this early version follows a man named Eriol who encounters a cottage full of tiny faeries who proceed to walk him through the Lost Tales--stories of their history before they diminished.
Melko feels much more akin to the trickster god Loki than the Lucifer-esque Melkor incarnation of the Silmarillian.Even though the Lost Tales didn't survive, BoLTp1 demonstrates the passion of a young man (Tolkien wrote much of it in his twenties) who lives for the stories he wants to tell as he starts on a tremendous storytelling journey.
Also if you have the desire to get yourself into this book it is a good idea to read the Silmarillion at least twice.
For me, there was never a dull moment of reading this book, every page there was something new for me to find out and it completely changes my concept of Middle-Earth and leaves me thinking "what if this idea had been kept" when i go back and read through the Silmarillion or the LOTR.
One of the coolest things in my opinion after reading through this book was to see the first intended course of many of the main characters in the Silmarillion and what their fates would have been.
I've been wanting to start this massive series, The History of Middle-Earth, for a long, long time.
Because as anyone knows, I bloody love Tolkien and Middle-Earth.However, it took me a while to start, mostly because I don't have more than the first two books yet and I have a feeling that I'll be wanting to read book 3 right after I finish book 1.Now, book 1.If you have read The Silmarillion, you'll know that it is largely the story of the elves, their origins and such.
The books in The History of Middle-Earth series are different again.
These books are the archaeology of Tolkien's subcreation of Middle-Earth.
Through alternating passages of text, notes, and commentary, Christopher Tolkien lays out how his father developed this world, tale by tale and word by word.If that sounds interesting to you, then you may well find great pleasure in The Book of Lost Tales and the other books in this series.
That's not just because I have always been a big fan of Tolkien, but because I have also always been someone who studies books as much as I read books.
This is the edited recounting, by J.R.R.'s son, Christopher Tolkien of his father's notebooks, printed first in rough hand in pencil then laboriously erased and copied over in pen, with additions sent to his wife from trenches of France during WWI.
All together these "lost tales" recount the preparation required by J.R.R. to pen the final edition, called the Silmarillion, the account of how this world came to be, the foundation for the world of the Hobbit and the Lord of the Rings.
Not for casual Tolkien readers, this is more like a "making of" documentary, presenting previous drafts of stories eventually published in final versions in The Silmarillion.
There are some lovely gems of poetry previously unseen interspersed here, The Song of Aryador being one that is quite haunting, set in the time of darkness before the creation of the Sun and the Moon.
As the subject character Eriol relates herein "...neither will Lindo ever lengthen the tale beyond my liking, whatsoever he tells, but behold this history is all to my heart."
Vote: 3,50Class: P-A3 (FP) (first volume, out of twelve!, of the History of Middle-Earth)I'm a Tolkien fan since I was a boy and I've put off reading this for many years, well knowing that this is not something like the Lord of the Rings or the Silmarillion even.Maybe we could say that this (this book at least) is not a work of fiction...
Well, by J.R.R.T. this was meant to be a work of fiction like, let us say, Omero's Iliad or the Aeneid...
