https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13062.Skin_Tight
Featuring another tough, macho, independent loner who fights large mean disfigured criminals, while standing knee deep in dead bodies and naked women.But, this guy is a little too eccentric, a little bit, too loose of a cannon.
so I do.So, I started laughing at all of them; the mean intentioned but inept villains, corrupt cops, corrupt politicians, the reality star TV broadcaster, the overly erotic actress, the plastic surgeon, the Florida medical board, the medical industry, the scheming women, but mostly the sheer vanity of it all.Then I figured it out, its not just a mystery, its about all the things that make this Carl Hiaasen guy mad ..(well that day, anyway).
What I learned from Skin Tight...1. A stuffed marlin makes a good weapon.2. A ex-Amish hit man with a weed whacker for an arm and a skin condition shouldn't be laughed at.3. A fictional thinly disquised Geraldo Rivera is as lame as the real one.4, I want to be Mick Stranahan (without all those people trying to kill him, of course).5. Wood mulchers are good for mulching other things.6. How a nose job could kill you.and last but not least...7. I NEVER...EVER...want to get plastic surgery.and I learned that Carl Hiaasen is one very funny writer.
I guess there's some unintentional irony playing out when a book, poking savage fun at the cosmetic surgery business in phony and corrupt Florida, is itself a do-over of sorts.
What gets him over the top, usually, is that he's a good student, and he adds his own outrage at what Florida has become.
The sad thing is, that the idea of a crooked and inept cosmetic surgeon (in the 1980s), dispatching hitmen to hide a nosejob gone wrong, is kind of cool.
But a number times throughout the story, Hiassen goes unnecessarily over the top.
My first Hiaasen - picked it up in a thrift store based only on the cover (THE BLURB ON THE BACK! - blurb - back, OK, OK, settle down people). It totally rocked my world and I was an instant fan. This is the first book starring ex-cop Mick Stranahan - one of the best of the more or less improbable characters of the roller coaster rides which are the Hiaasen books of the time. The fifth star is part pure entertainment value and part nostalgia I'm sure. But those are fine justifications in my view.
In "Skin Tight", for example, an incompetent hit-man loses an arm from a barracuda attack, and instead of attaching a prosthetic arm, he decides to have a weed-whacker attached.
As in all Hiaasen books, there is an enormous cast of characters, ranging from a Geraldo Rivera-like TV reporter who actually tries to get beaten up on every episode by his guests, a plastic surgeon who is so bad at his job that even he doesn't want to perform surgeries, as well as the afore-mentioned weed-whacker-for-a-hand assassin who desperately needs a dermabrasion.
In "Skin Tight", Hiaasen takes aim at the plastic surgery industry, and he gives it a new a--hole.
A Florida plastic surgeon, Dr. Rudy Graveline, with more PR talent than actual skills, kills a rhinoplasty patient on the table.
Too frightened of getting bad publicity, he decides to enlist the help of his tree trimmer brother who owns a large tree chipper - just the right thing for getting rid of a body.
Chemo, unaware of Graveline's deficiencies as a surgeon, agrees.The retired police detective, Mike Stranahan, is living peaceably out on a Florida stilt house, happily fishing from his deck and feeding a pet barracuda which has learned to expect fish entrails dumped into the ocean below Stranahan's wooden house.
Simply put, "Miami Vice on Steroids." There are not many authors who can deliver a 400+ page comic crime mystery, (Tim Dorsey does it in about half the length and both authors set their work in Florida) who can throw the ball up in the air on page one and keep it spinning.
So Hiaasen, like Dorsey, takes the MacDonald/McGee style crime thriller into much weirder, much wilder plots.
But still, it's pretty much all fun stuff (but Dorsey takes the violence to a level I don't particularly like) and Hiaasen has the good sense to, indeed, reference that 1980s TV show, Miami Vice.
Carl Hiaasen's books are uniformly fun.
The good guys win and the bad guys get what they deserve.
They are well worth the reading--and the occasional rereading.
Hiaasen's detective/adventure/action/humor books feature unlikely heros and unlikely--but possible--situations.
They are set in a Florida which seems like the perfect place to steal an election on TV.
Skin Tight is one of the better ones.
Mick Stranahan just wants to be left alone, but it seems he just can't relax without someone trying to kill him.
I really enjoy the light reads that can be read again later with as much enjoyment as the first time and Hiaasen's books qualify for that.
What an odd story.
It reminded me of Travis McGee in many ways, but an insane version.
Normally I don't have an issue with satirical stories, but Skin Tight couldn't seem to decide if it was serious or totally loopy.
Mr. Hiaasen seems to have forgotten that old saying about not being able to have ones cake and eat it too.
So I must say that ,in all in all, I didn't care for the book at all.
I know that I should say more, but I simply didn't care for the book.
I know that one shouldn't go off of one book, but it doesn't bode well.
In "Skinny Dip," the ex-investigator for the DA who got terminated after he put away a crooked judge; in that one he rescues a woman who is tossed overboard and survives by hanging onto a huge bale of floating marijuana, but I digress; read the book, you'll laugh), seems to have several people out to kill him and it's leading back to this here "nose job" case.
Oh yeah, Biscayne Bay, where Mick's stilt house is, is also a sort-of "character" in this work.
Actually I was gonna give this one five stars just for the unintended fun factor, but of course one must rate on the merits of the work in itself.
Das versprüht so einen schönen maritimen Old-School-Charme.420 Seiten Gewalt, Sex und Schönheits-OPs – Das klang außerdem nach einer vernünftigen Urlaubslektüre.Und darum geht’s: Der fünffach geschiedene Ex-Bulle Mick Stranahan lebt das süße Leben in einem Stelzenhaus im sonnigen Florida.Doch ganz stressfrei kann er sein Frührentner-Dasein nicht genießen, denn eine ganze Handvoll skurriler Gestalten trachten ihm nach seinem Leben.Carl Hiaasen hat schon über zwanzig Bücher geschrieben und ist bekannt für seine durchgeknallten Charaktere und seinen schwarzen Humor.Auch in Skin Tight tummeln sich wieder reichlich groteske Figuren herum.
I'd never read any Carl Hiaasen and after seeing all the rave reviews about his books and reading how humorous they are supposed to be I thought I should try one.
Well maybe it's just me but I sure didn't find this book very humorous.
I will admit that I did somewhat enjoy reading this for all the impossible, improbable, preposterous, over-the-top, outrageous and mostly just plain silly action but I'm afraid this is my first and last Carl Hiaasen.
I am very sure there are lots of readers that like his books and I accept and respect their opinions and tastes.
Rudy Graveline is a well known (and utterly incompetent) plastic surgeon.
These characters all come together as Mick tries to figure out what's going on, who killed who (as more bodies pile up), and what he can do it.
Mick is quite happy to be left alone, but when he's prodded (like say, sending a hitman after him) he becomes a really dangerous force for justice (not the law).
There is lots of satire, a scathing attack on the way medical law worked in Florida in the 80s (gods I hope it's been fixed since), violence, and utter absurdity.
It's bitingly sarcastic, and Mick is arguably more anti-hero than hero, but it's a fun story.
If you are a Hiaasen fan, this book will not disappoint you.
If you have never read one of his books, this is a wonderful place to start.
Carl Hiaasen is one of my favorite comedic authors.
Carl Hiaasen has been an inspiration to me as an author of comedic books!In order to enjoy this book, you need to have an appreciation for dark humor which is satire at its best.
It also was the kind of book that I didn't want to put down.
Enjoy a wonderful adventure!Davis Aujourd'hui, author of "The Misadventures of Sister Mary Olga Fortitude"
Had been reading a lot of crime fiction lately, and was looking for something else in that genre.
Bizarre story, over the top characters, good stuff, right?The problem was that the writing was awful.
Many times I had to re-read paragraphs just to figure out what the author was trying to describe.
This was most noticeable during action scenes where I'm sure the author had an idea that made sense in his head, but just could not transfer it to paper.
Would have been a fun story had it been done by a better writer.
I don't really feel comfortable giving this a rating as I read the first 100 pages then the last 2 chapters and epilogue.
There were some funny parts and I was curious as to what was going to happen (so definitely more than 1 star) but by 100 pages I came to the realization that I, as the reader, knew exactly who had committed the original crime, who was lying, and not only who hired all of the hit-men, but who the hit-man was.
The reader is just introduced to those characters and flat out told or shown what crime they have committed.
Mick Stranahan sure gets a lot of women to take off their clothes unselfconsciously in front of him. The fact that none are romantically linked with him makes this all the more unusual. You'll just have to read the story but the theme is "plastic surgery", so that may give you a hint on why this is happening to Mick. Skin Tight was mildly humorous, more tongue in cheek than other Hiaasen stories I have read. Some slightly outlandish characters make it fun. Probably 2.5 Stars on the scale. Not bad.
I really liked this one. I have read a few other books by this author, and although I have enjoyed them, this was my favorite to date. I love the character of Mick Stranahan and the characters were quite amusing. This was a fun and fast-paced mystery; I'm just sorry it languished on my bookshelf for so long!
This was a fun book to read and didn't take much brain power. It is a little different from other crime novels that I have read because it has a darkly comical undertone. The characters are vivid if a bit cartoonish. I would reccomend this if you are looking for a light easy read with a little humor.
A nice palate cleanser after not-reading Gravity's Rainbow all summer. Funny and cartoonish in Hiassen's way, but the ending was weirdly confusing and anticlimactic. Expected more to wrap up this darkly funny romp through the Florida Keys and the world of plastic surgery.
A typical Hiaasen mixture of good guys, bad guys and good plots sprinkled with humor. 7 of 10 stars
That's when he started to investigate the issue on why someone who wanted him dead and learned it had to do with a cold case of a missing person named Vicky Barletta.
Everyone wants a piece of the action like Reynoldo Flemm, who would do anything for a story, and Maggie Gonzalez, who pinned the fallout on Mick and covered up the real truth.
Besides crooked cops, doctors and politicians, everybody wants it hushed up before it could ruin everything when the real truth comes out with a grisly ending that can't be missed.
They are, collectively, a great release from daily stresses, as much an escape as any favored movie or tv show.
Along the way, you might even learn something about an obscure industry or an environmental aspect of Florida, the home base for all the Hiaasen books I've read so far.And they always have a couple of great protagonists to cheer for, and a bunch of incredibly ruthless but amazingly stupid criminals who get their just rewards in the most spectacular ways.This is not my favorite of the Hiaasen I've read, but that's ok.
Another delightful romp from Carl Hiaasen!
Like most of his novels, Skin Tight was a roller coaster ride through South Florida from start to finish.
It all starts when a mysterious dead body washes up on the shores of Biscayne Bay. The recently deceased is (apparently) a member of the mob and the cause of death is impalement by marlin.
As with most of his novels, Skin Tight hosts a crazy cast of characters, including an unqualified plastic surgeon, good cops, slimy cops, supermodels and actresses, and a TV journalist named "Reynaldo Flemm" who bears a striking resemblance to Geraldo Rivera.
Hiaasen is always good for an easy summer read!
Carl Hiaasen has gotten leaps and bounds better over the years of his career, which makes it hard to go back and read some of his older stuff for the first time.
One way in which Hiaasen managed to be waaaay ahead of his time: the story rotates around a wildly corrupt, horribly incompetent plastic surgeon.
Even as he discusses plastic surgery and the patients who are having it for reasons legitimate or otherwise, Hiaasen gently begs the question of necessity.
Typical Hiaasen, laugh out loud funny, cracking pace and an easy, entertaining read all round. Enjoy!
Mick Stranahan is a retired Florida State investigator who was part of a team who looked into the disappearance of a young woman after she had plastic surgery four years ago.
"Chemo" is the one to try to murder Stranahan, but Mick is too smart.
The case is finally solved.In most of Mr. Hiaasen's stories, politicians and doctors and developers are exposed as corrupt and dealt with in a number of unusual ways.
They are dealt with in brutal ways as they try to kill Mick.
When I read my first Carl Hiaasen, it took me a while to decide it was funny, and a bit longer to decide that it was very funny indeed.But his black humor with just about the whole world (or at least Florida) being very corrupt gets old too. I can't read them very often. The individual plots don't matter too much in deciding whether to read one of his books. Pick any one for the dark humor and characterizations.
One of Hiaasen's lesser works. Amusing and cartoonishly violent and moderately sexist, most of the tropes seen here have been covered better in other books, and the protagonist isn't weird enough to cover for his tendency towards violent retaliation.
Even the hit man burned in an electrolysis accident, who is repeatedly described as looking like he had rice krispies glued to his face, does not strain the tricky suspension of disbelief that comedic books should uphold.The story is relatively simple, for a book that's categorized at my local library as a 'mystery'.
A reporter named Reynaldo Flemm is tracking the story surrounding the questionable surgeon, but he leaves all the real journalism to his producer, Christina Marks, while he simply preens himself and tries to get injured on camera for shock value and ratings.Easily the most memorable character in the book is the next hit man in line to take down Stranahan: Chemo, the seven-foot tall rice krispy-faced killer.
