https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4983.Kurt_Vonnegut_s_Cat_s_Cradle
In the book “Cats Cradle”, Kurt Vonnegut uses discreet humor, irony and his own made up religion, Bokononism to illustrate how science is both helpful and harming.
This book really made realize how though science is extremely helpful, credible, and has advanced society in many ways it also has been used to its advantage to cause the worst days in history.
This book would be favored by those who enjoy the different directions that science can go along with authentic humor and strong writing by remarkable Kurt Vonnegut.
While researching this topic, John becomes involved with the children of Felix Hoenikker.John travels to Ilium, New York, to interview the Hoenikker children and others for his book.
As the novel continues , John learns of a substance called ice-nine, created by the late Hoenikker and is now secretly in the possession of his children.
John and the Hoenikker children eventually end up on the fictional Caribbean island of San Lorenzo, one of the poorest countries on Earth.
To find out what john finds on the island you have to read the book.
Kurt Vonnegut is my favorite author, and this book is probably the reason behind that.
In Cat's Cradle, Vonnegut brings to light world issues such as religion, science, and politics and ties them into an apocalyptic theme.
I feel that Vonnegut does a spectacular job of turning it into something humans bring upon themselves by taking science too far, and how they either turn to religion as a reason to accept death, or allow their survival instincts to take over.
By making this book a dark comedy, Vonnegut makes his ideas more potent.
Cat’s Cradle is a 1963 novella written by acclaimed satirist and author Kurt Vonnegut.
Cat’s Cradle is what he considered to be his masterpiece: a humorous, nihilistic, and depressing statement about the world and its values during the Cold War. The novella highlights the issues surrounding organized religion and the nuclear Arms Race.
Throughout the book, Vonnegut continues to tell the story in the same way, in order to associate death and destruction with humor.
San Lorenzo is also home of Bokononism, a strange religion adhering to the tenants of lies and apathy that is outlawed by the island’s military junta.
But, of course, all books are different, and this one was actually enjoyable, although there are many instances of the same passages (from Vonnegut) repeated through and through in different essays appearing here.I was "turned on" by Vonnegut in 1969, when I grabbed a copy of Cat's Cradle off the shelf behind my English teacher's desk (thanks, Ms. Nelson!)- her personal reading shelf and "borrowed" it for a week.
all in all despite the repetitiousness in citing relevant passages this was a enjoyable way to spend a week or two, read mostly on short breaks before and after work.
As usual, Vonnegut has provided a thought-provoking commentary on humanity and a possible avenue of its future.
I found his use of religion and discussion of very interesting and thought-provoking in my own life.
It caused me to really reflect on why I believe what I do and how that affects my way of life.
I think this book is also skilled in addressing and identifying ways that religion functions in society, for better or for worse.
It keeps me engage in Vonnegut's side thoughts and ensures that I'm thinking critically throughout the book.
One of Vonnegut's early and really brilliant works. I know that when reading it, one might think the author disillusioned, but the construct of using a made-up religion to lampoon the trivial nature of human things is genius. It could stand purely on its honesty and self-effacing humour in that regard. You see the plot through the eyes of an author, and satire spins to black humour to sci-fi, to politics, and finally, raw, relentless humanity.
I remember it as enjoyable and different and part of my required reading. Vonnegut was a writer-in-residence at my college, for a while, and when I met him, he was totally not who I expected. This was one of the classics, though. I would need to re-read it. And so it goes...
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
I truly enjoyed this book, and the twists in plot and theme. I am looking forward to reading more from this author.
Interesting take on roles of religion and science and potential for impacting earth. Satire throughout, as told via lens of imaginary island, scientific discovery, and religion. Or is it?
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
My first Vonnegut book. Oh the pleasure of discovering him was unbearable. They don't wrote them. Like this anymore.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
Depressing, right?Yeah, well Vonnegut (in his special way) manages to make this dark theme come across through satire and a form of comedy which lightens the general mood of his novels, yes, but also makes the verging-on-nihilistic themes carry an even bigger impact.
Basically, Cat's Cradle is about the narrator's journey through life to write his book, "The Day the World Ended", about the day the first Atomic Bomb was dropped...
hmm.I wonder if all the other Vonnegut novels follow the same trends/structures seen in Cat's Cradle and Slaughterhouse Five...
Having recently re-read Vonnegut's Slaughterhouse 5 and now having re-read Cat's Cradle their similarities come to the forefront as both novel deal with a writer preparing to right a book on a mass slaughter in WWII.
In Slaughterhouse 5 the writer is preparing to write a book about the firebombing of Dresden and in Cat's Cradle the writer is writing a book on the scientists families involved in the Manhattan Project.
Though I was surprised at how much of Slaughterhouse 5 I had remembered despite not reading it for almost 4 decades.
Though I had forgot much of Cat's Cradle, though remembered Ice 9.
With the likes of mad scientists, dancing Ukrainian midgets, possessed clarinet players and granfalloons (you have to read the book to understand the last one) Vonnegut captured this concept in his fable of flawed antiheroes and comedic tragedy.We follow the path of a journalist, researching the scientist who invented the a-bomb.
His pursuit takes us all to a Caribbean island: the home of Bokononism, a forbidden religion seemingly guilt-free and self-professedly full of bulls**t.
The kind of stupidity we read about in newspapers every day.
As the book of Bokonon says: "History.
Vonnegut's "Cat's Cradle" is engaging and full of small nuggets of wisdom.
I think that this element, the fact that everything is a lie, is what makes Vonnegut's book interesting.
Especially after reading a novel that was written with the idea of multiple stories in mind, this idea that everything is a lie is fascinating.
If I confused you at all with that, I apologize, but that's pretty much what Cat's Cradle is like.
A must read book, and an excellent way to stretch your mind.
The book is filled with religious sayings from the religion of this world, and the one towards the end that is a pretty good summary of the book is this:In the beginning, God created the earth, and he looked upon it in His cosmic loneliness.And God said, "Let Us make living creatures out of mud, so the mud can see what We have done." And God created every living creature that now moveth, and one was man.
Mud as man alone could speak.
God leaned close as mud as man sat up, looked around, and spoke.
For a long time, I said I wasn't a fan of Vonnegut.
Since them, I've grouped Vonnegut with along with the likes of Hunter S.
You know, frat lit.
I read Cat's Cradle for a class and found myself rolling my eyes less the more I read.
Still wasn't that crazy about "Cat's Cradle," and be that as it may, I had the urge to pick up Slaughterhouse Five when I finished.
I suppose I was a bit presumptuous about my presumpions, so I take back everything bad I ever said about Mr. Vonnegut.
Except the part about frat boys.
When you reach the end, you think, "If this is all the book is supposed to mean, then it's sort of a poor excuse for a book." And then you think back on what you read, and it makes you giggle a little, and you think, "Well, even if my conscious brain didn't get it, some part of me did," and you're okay with that.
A cat's cradle is nothing but a bunch of X's between somebody's hands, and little kids look and look and look at all those X's...''And?''No damn cat, and no damn cradle.' " Maybe that quote is a metaphor for finding meaning in the novel.
