https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/341340.Poems_and_Prose
And the only conceivable way I can persuade you that statement is true is to include some of that poetry here: That Nature Is A Heraclitean Fire And Of The Comfort Of The Resurrection Cloud-puffball, torn tufts, tossed pillows flaunt forth, then chevy on an air-built thoroughfare: heaven-roysterers, in gay-gangs they throng; they glitter in marches.Down roughcast, down dazzling whitewash, wherever an elm arches,Shivelights and shadowtackle in long lashes lace, lance, and pair.Delightfully the bright wind boisterous ropes, wrestles, beats earth bareOf yestertempest's creases; in pool and rut peel parchesSquandering ooze to squeezed dough, crust, dust; stanches, starchesSquadroned masks and manmarks treadmire toil thereFootfretted in it.
These the wind makes I think and of course drifts, which are in fact snow waves.
I think this must be when the wind after shaping the drift first has changed and cast waves in the body of the wave itself.
They look like little gay jugs by shape when they walk, strutting and jod-jodding with their heads.
The two young ones are all white and the pins of the folded wings, quill pleated over quill, are like crisp and shapely cuttleshells found on the shore.
I don't know if this is a different publication of the edition that I have, but in any case, Hopkins' poetry is the most powerfully audible poetry that I know. His mastery of sound transforms rhyming, alliteration, and assonance from the hallmarks of juvenile doggerl into a truly poetic symphony of language. For this reason, even though his poetry may be difficult to understand, it is always a delight to hear.
I love this man's poetry, and when I discovered his journal entries, I was moved and delighted. He notices so much in nature; I love how he writes about the particular sunset of each day in his entries, and the birds he has seen.
Giver of breath and bread;World’s strand, sway of the sea;Lord of living and dead;Thou hast bound bones and veins in me, fastend me flesh,And after it almost unmade, what with dread,Thy doing: and dost thou touch me afresh?Over again I feel thy finger and find thee.From “The Wreck of the Deutschland, Part the Second”Into the snows she sweeps,Hurling the haven behind,The Deutschland, on Sunday; and so the sky keeps,For the infinite air is unkind,And the sea flint-flake, black-backed in the regular blow,Sitting Eastnortheast, in cursed quarter, the wind;Wiry and white-fiery and whirlwind-swivelled snowSpins to the wido-making unchilding unfathering deeps.See my other reviews here!
I've never read anything else like Gerard Manley Hopkins.
I enjoy his nature poetry more than his spiritual poems, but all were well worth reading.
I also enjoyed the excerpts from his journals, getting a look into the detailed observations of the world which he recorded and then incorporated into his poetry.
I skipped the selected letters section as well as a good portion of the editor's notes.
Editors always seem to want to get up in my business of reading; I'd rather draw my own insights and conclusions from the poetry than read a dry account of Hopkins' writing style.
The biographical portions were interesting, though.

How to speak of Hopkins?We live in an era and a civilization in which the cultivated appreciation of all the arts has been besmirched with snobbery and identified with wealth and privilege.
I thrill to the identification with a soaring bird each time I read “To a Windhover”, and to the ultimate love and beauty that underlie all Manifestation, when I read “God’s Grandeur” — although the word and concept “God” has always seemed to me an unnecessary complication and, ultimately, an obscuration and distraction from that grand apprehension.
On Saturday sailed from Bremen,  American-outward-bound,  Take settler and seamen, tell men with women,  Two hundred souls in the round—  O Father, not under thy feathers nor ever as guessing  The goal was a shoal, of a fourth the doom to be drowned;  Yet did the dark side of the bay of thy blessing Not vault them, the million of rounds of thy mercy not reeve even them in?
All of Hopkins' poetry is amazing, but the "Windhover" in particular is one of the most impressive lyrics I've every read. Hopkins' explosion of the sonnet form and embrace of the notion of oral poetry makes him one of the most powerful voices in modern poetry.
Some very beautiful stuff. Many of the poems give glory to creation and to the creator. Hopkins is a Catholic Jesuit priest. His writing looks ultimately to God. Some of these are absolutely breathtaking. Some I can't understand. I'm sure that's my fault.
Manly Hopkins is a wonderful poet. Most of his poems are written from a Christian perspective and consequently their content is frequently misaligned from my own worldview; nonetheless, his unique pattern of rhyming and meter brings them alive. Something I dip into every now and then.
ALL THINGS ARE ONNEEEEEE
We can argue primary and secondary stresses until kingdom come.Hopkins also plays wildly with word combinations which create a powerful effect – “dapple-dawn-drawn Falcon” is beautiful, regardless how many stresses it has.
The appearance of three/four/five consecutive stressed syllables makes his poetry evocative and physical.Hopkins was obviously an eccentric, and sometime-genius.
While I find the subject matter of most of his poems outside my interests, I’ll always be drawn to the hard, physical sound of his line.
Reading Hopkins made me realize that accentual verse comes much closer to song than metrical (syllabic) poetry does.
Father and mother dear, Brothers and sisters are in Christ not near, And he my peace/my parting, sword and strife.” He was an early poet who burned all his poems at age 22.
“My prayers all meet a brazen heaven / And fail or all scatter away.” He tried the ascetic life, then returned to poetry at the end.PeaceWhen will you ever, Peace, wild wooddove, shy wings shut,Your round me roaming end, and under be my boughs?When, when, Peace, will you, Peace?
And so he does leave patience exquisite,That plumes to Peace thereafter.
One of my favorites - beside Pied Beauty - 'Thou art indeed just, Lord, if I contend'BY GERARD MANLEY HOPKINSJustus quidem tu es, Domine, si disputem tecum; verumtamen justa loquar ad te: Quare via impiorum prosperatur?
Thou art indeed just, Lord, if I contendWith thee; but, sir, so what I plead is just.Why do sinners’ ways prosper?
lacèd they are againWith fretty chervil, look, and fresh wind shakesThem; birds build – but not I build; no, but strain,Time’s eunuch, and not breed one work that wakes.Mine, O thou lord of life, send my roots rain.Others of my favorites are May Magnificat, The Leaden Echo, Epthalamion...

AS kingfishers catch fire, dragonflies dráw fláme; As tumbled over rim in roundy wells Stones ring; like each tucked string tells, each hung bell’s Bow swung finds tongue to fling out broad its name; Each mortal thing does one thing and the same: 5Deals out that being indoors each one dwells; Selves—goes itself; myself it speaks and spells, Crying Whát I do is me: for that I came. Í say móre: the just man justices; Kéeps gráce: thát keeps all his goings graces; 10Acts in God’s eye what in God’s

the poems have a song like quality, and often times stanzas or entire poems will turn on one word or phrase that hold double or triple meanings.
but the notebook entries and journal entries of his are just as engrossing.
take one entry where hopkins, as an educator and priest of a college, details an annual event where the students line up down the infirmary to be inoculated for small pox.
except hopkins notices one student exempt from it all.
silent and pained, the student watches the other boys between studies of his own face in the mirror.
it is pocked and scarred from small pox.
Honestly, don't know if I would have slogged through this had it not been for a fantastic experience I had at in the graduate writing program at Manhattanville college with a gifted professor (doing woo woo fist in air for Tom) and two interesting and highly creative class mates (you know who you are), studying sonnets.
I highly recommend poetry classes where the group size is under five in number, tea is served in an old kitchen, and you read about the beauty of "speckled things" as rain thrums on the roof.
At least my heaven.
Sprung rhythm.
It is Margaret you mourn for.
Glory be to God for dappled things.
I caught this morning morning's minion, kingdom of daylight's dauphin, dapple-dawn-drawn Falcon, in his riding...Oddly, one of my strongest memories is of "I fled Him, down the nights and down the days;" which is not by Hopkins at all but by Francis Thompson.
No matter, I printed a copy of Thompson's Hound of Heaven and tucked it in this book so that I find it whenever I go looking.
The prose is stimulating too, people could write in those days and Hopkins is a worthy correspondent.
Hopkins will always be my favorite poet. No easy feat considering how many other poets I love. But this is the best: The glass-blue days are thoseWhen every colour glows,Each shape and shadow shows.Blue be it: this blue heavenThis seven or seven times sevenHued sunbeam will transmitPerfect, not alter it.Or if there does some soft,On things aloof, aloft,Bloom breathe, that one breath moreEarth is the fairer for.
There's just nothing better. He may be dark and introspective, but in the end Hopkins always looks out and looks out with hope towards Christ. "Christ minds; Christ's interests, what to avow or amendThere; eyes them, heart wants, care haunts, foot follows kind,Their ransome, their rescue, and first, fast, last friend." ~Lantern Out of DoorsI hope I remembered those lines correctly.
Thought provoking poems from a poet way ahead of his time. The sounds are amazing. Hopkins was revolutionary in his approach to language, but it's his honest search for truth in his faith, and his examination of his own conflicted devotion (Hopkins was a priest) that distinguish him as a philosopher. A surprisingly "modern" collection.
Hopkins writes poems that are beautiful to hear, and, for me, way too difficult to understand. He's smarter than me, and his times are less familiar to me, but he also seemed happily and willfully esoteric. His work seems similar to Dylan Thomas. Poets need to read other poets. If you want to be a well read poet, you have to include Hopkins on your READ IT list.
Hopkins has long been one of my favorite poets from the Victorian era. He was a closeted Catholic priest and an innovator of sublime poetry who, like Emily Dickinson (also a favorite of mine), published virtually nothing in his lifetime.
Hopkins is a great poet. He was the best thing to happen to English poetry since the Romantics. His writing feels very 17th Century, reminiscent of the Metaphysical poets and the Jacobean dramatists in its union of thought, feeling and observation.
Whichever professor I had for Victorian Lit in college somehow turned me off to Hopkins. All I can say in retrospect is that he or she must have been shitty teacher indeed, because this is genius work, full stop. It's a shame I had to get this old and cynical before I realized that.
Shook foil!
I first came across G. M. Hopkin's poems in my teen.As some lines from Kingfishers Cathc Fire were used during tv-series Lewis' final episode, I wanted to reread his poems again.
