https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/179174.The_Secret_of_the_Unicorn
To unravel the riddle, Tintin and Haddock must obtain three identical models of Sir Francis's ship, the Unicorn, but they discover that criminals are also after these model ships and are willing to kill in order to obtain them.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سال 1975 میلادیعنوان: اسب شاخدار؛ نویسنده: هرژه؛ مترجم: خسرو سمیعی؛ تهران، یونیورسال، 1354، در 62 ص؛ موضوع: داستانهای فکاهی از نویسندگان بلژیکی - سده 20 مراز اسب شاخدار، یازدهمین کتاب کمیک (داستان مصور) از سری ماجراهای تن‌ تن و میلو است، که توسط هرژه در سال 1943 میلادی برای نخستین بار نوشته، طراحی و چاپ شده است.
Tintin purchases a model ship as a gift to Captain Haddock and is surprised when two people immediately show great interest in his purchase.
Tintin refuses their offers and takes the ship home.
Tintin tries to track the people who are interested down and an adventure with very close connections to Captain Haddock begins.While not as funny as other adventures, The Secret of the Unicorn delivers on the mystery and intrigue.
Captain Haddock plays a large role here and is as funny as ever, and there is plenty of Thompson and Thomson, but they do not do their charming mis-clarifications sadly.
I wanted to include a comic book in my World Cup Reading Challenge and Tintin is one of the most ico
شروع دوبارهی کامیکبوکخوندن با این بود، که موردعلاقهترین تنتن کودکیهام هم. :]
شروع دوباره‌ی کامیک‌بوک‌خوندن با این بود، که موردعلاقه‌ترین تن‌تن کودکی‌هام هم. :]
সেরা টিনটিন গুলোর একটা। শীতের রাত বলে রকষা। সবাই কান ঢেকে ঘুমাচছে। নতুবা রাতদুপুরে আমার হাসির চোটে বাসার লোকজনের ঘুম ভাঙলে আমার জায়গা হতো মানসিক হাসপাতাল। নাহ, আর বড় হতে পারলাম না। পুরো পাঁচতারা, বছরের পরথম পাঁচতারা কলিক করার সৌভাগয এল এতটা দেরিতে।
সেরা টিনটিন গুলোর একটা। শীতের রাত বলে রক্ষা। সবাই কান ঢেকে ঘুমাচ্ছে। নতুবা রাতদুপুরে আমার হাসির চোটে বাসার লোকজনের ঘুম ভাঙলে আমার জায়গা হতো মানসিক হাসপাতাল। নাহ্, আর বড় হতে পারলাম না। পুরো পাঁচতারা, বছরের প্রথম পাঁচতারা ক্লিক করার সৌভাগ্য এল এতটা দেরিতে।
This is still my all-time favourite Tintin book, with the sequel,   a close second!
Between the NINE MILLION STARS I could give the good Tintin titles for blowing my little small town mind as a child, making me aware of the existence of Europe and the sophisticated possibilities latent in a comic book, and the snooty two stars I could disdainfully issue now citing dim physical comedy, linear plotting, and a heavy reliance on the comic delights of alcoholism, is a middle point of 4,500,001 stars.
But this is one of those situations where an average doesn't tell you much about the data, so I just won't rate the Tintins.
It doesn't take nearly as much time as it used to.
Why are so many people interested in the miniature of a ship bought by Tintin at the Market? And what has this ship to do with an ancestor of Captain Haddock???To find out, read this wonderful new adventure of Tintin, Milu, Captain Haddock, and the inseparable Dupond and Dupont!Maria Carmo,Lisbon 12 January 2015.
I specially like this one because this is the story where Tin and his best friend, "blistering barnacles" Captain Haddock have their first great adventure, although we meet him in 'The Crab with the Golden Claws'.
Later, popular additions to the cast included the brash, cynical and grumpy Captain Haddock, the highly intelligent but hearing-impaired Professor Calculus and other supporting characters such as the incompetent detectives Thomson and Thompson.
The stories within the Tintin series always feature slapstick humour, accompanied in later albums by satire, and political and cultural commentary.
Tintin's adventures are refreshing, even though this one was written 70 years ago, as they make everything so easily available.
I feel like it'd be harder to market something like Tintin now.
Tintin stories just include whatever Hergé felt was necessary.
Tintin's a moody hero who always wants to do the right thing, but he gets annoyed and frustrated when things aren't turning out.
Then Captain Haddock gets drunk and nearly stabs Tintin accidentally.
Then Tintin goes rogue and does some dangerous shit to save the day.It's always a wacky adventure with this son of a bitch.
I loved it! The story is funny and entertaining, and the illustrations are so beautiful! I think I'm going to read all the comic books since the first because I only have this one physically.
At one point it went Godfather-dark. I liked that.
I want to start out this review by thanking my brother for introducing me to Tintin, because if it wasn't for him, I would have never read any of the books.
And as much as I was first adamant against reading them, I have come to realize that I actually enjoy them.
A lot.
They're filled with a load of humour, adventure, amazing characters and fantastic artwork!
Plus they're nice easy reads when you're tired of reading novels all day.
This story, in particular, is fantastic, and I'm excited to read its sequel, Red Rackham's Treasure!5/5!!!
Would recommend this to 
The Secret of the Unicorn is actually part one of a two-part adventure rendered in highly realistic comic book/graphic novel style by the Belgian artist/writer Herge in the mid-1940s.
Those two books, along with episodes from the unrelated Tintin adventure The Crab With the Golden Claws, are the basis of the Steven Spielberg-directed film The Adventures of Tintin.In THE SECRET OF THE UNICORN, the intrepid young reporter Tintin, his ill-tempered friend Captain Haddock, and Tintin's faithful and funny terrier, Snowy, get swept up in a complicated mystery that leads to a search for lost pirate treasure.
***SPOILERS ALERT***Tintin stumbles upon a ship model at the market and decides to buy it for Captain Haddock.
But there are people out to buy the model from him, whatever the cost.
The sequence were Captain Haddock narrates his ancestors history (which includes the encounter with the pirates) while consuming many gallons of rum is outrageously funny.
I suspect Herge conceived it while under the influence.
Herge is an expert at drawing action scenes.
The action scenes at Marlinspike, the abode of the villains were very imaginative, containing many interesting set pieces.
Facial expressions of the characters deserve special mention.
Some of the Thompson's face expressions were priceless.
The Secret of the Unicorn and it's follow-up, Red Rackham's Treasure represent some of the best storytelling in the Tintin adventures and while this adventure is stronger than part 2, there's still lots to love within both volumes - especially the pickpocket :)(Reading up on this one I found it interesting that while Herge worked for a Nazi controlled paper (during WWII occupation) it was there that his focus on plot and character narrowed down, dropping some of the political satire earlier volumes often included.)
Liked The book a lot!! Though the movie is completely different with the comic, I liked the both versions!! The comic was simply narrated and very interesting! It was so grippy!! Liked snowy role in this part a lot!! Thompson and thompson were hilarious as usual!! Tin tin was awesome with his spontaneous nature and his guts!! A great comic!!
#41 for 2018Genre: Children Comic
Audiobook blast from the past.
Alt med Kaptajn Haddock er nu engang guld
<3
I grew up outside of the US and have been a huge fan of Tintin since childhood, so I am pleased to see that these wonderful stories are becoming more widely known in this country since the recent release of “The Adventures of Tintin” movie.Hergé, a Belgian artist, wrote 23 books from 1929 – 1975 about Tintin, the brave young reporter who travels the world, and his faithful fox terrier dog Snowy (Milou in the original French).
I’ve chosen “The Secret of the Unicorn” only because it is one of the three books upon which the Spielberg movie was based.
This is one of three TinTin stories that form the basis for the film coming out later this year.I had expected to review TinTin as part of my project anyway and started with this one since it shares the name with the movie.
The writing is chock full of various phrases that I expect are repeated throughout the whole of TinTin.I should probably read the other two volumes at some point.
Ah I always do things half-assed backwards.
Ok, so this is the first part of the two part story and I sort of gave a review for the second part.
What's amazing and interesting is how much research Hergé did for his stories.
Besides clothing, he had a good eye for architecture as well as weapons, automobiles, etc.
These young reader editions all have additional information regarding the story - and overall its very interesting.
The world of TinTin is very very rich.The narrative doesn't impress me that much, but the detail work of his Hergé's illustrations is really impressive.
This is where Herge really started to get great.
A series of wallet-snatchings in plaguing Brussels, which Thomson and Thompson are investigating.
Meanwhile, Tintin buys an old model of a ship as a present for Haddock, and is immediately accosted by two people who want to buy it from him.
Both stories converge when the ship and one of the missing wallets become parts of the key to the final resting place of the Unicorn, Sir Francis Haddock's legendary ship.
Just before the Unicorn went down, Haddock had been involved in a great battle with notorious pirate Red Rackham-- and the Unicorn is believed to hold Red Rackham's final treasure.
But that's another story.
Evidentemente una relecturaAprovechando el próximo estreno de las películas de Spielberg sobre el personaje, hemos escogido estos dos títulos como lectura para mis gemelos (4 años)... (siempre leemos tres cuentos, uno lo escoge la peque, otro el peque y el último el lector)... para mi sorpresa a partir del segundo día ya eran ellos los que pedían Tintin... que no es precisamente infantil... curioso.
This is my first Tintin, and I read it for school as it is a selected reader for this term.I can't say the plot is capturing, but it's easy to follow and has its creative bits to keep you engaged. The characterisation through word choices and pictures is however amazing - even Snowy has quite a personality.
This is the first Tintin book I ever read and by far the best! I have re read it numerous times. Its is about how Tintin and his friend Captain Haddock try to find out more about Captain Haddocks family history.
لأن من النور سياتي النور
Anyway, enough about that - let's get down to this comic (books) vs movie review ofThe Adventures of Tintin: Secret of the Unicorn.Now the 2011 film is adapted from three different comics by Herge, which are: The Crab with the Golden Claw, The Secret of the Unicorn and Red Rackham's Treasure.
Also, he had the most awesome voice in the animated series and was just so adorable!The only other difference is that because The Crab with the Golden Claw is a stand-alone story that is a predecessor of the Unicorn two-parter, the villain is Alan and it is pretty unfortunate to just see him get demoted down to a minor character.
