https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/105556.The_King_s_Stilts
Missed this one as a kid...has been on my list for a long time...great book on how we all need to have time to do what we like to do - and not have to justify our interests to anyone.
Dr. Seuss’ artwork is as usual, highly creative to look at as the artwork is mostly presented in black and white colors, but there are certain objects in the artwork that are colored in red to show their significance to the story, such as the King’s cape and stilts, Eric the Page Boy’s pants and the Patrol Cats’ badges.Parents should know that unlike most of Dr. Seuss’ later works, the tone of this story is much darker as the scenes where the Kingdom of Binn is in danger of being flooded by the sea because of the Nizzard birds nibbling on the dike trees might scare some small children.Overall, “The King’s Stilts” is a truly remarkable read from Dr. Seuss’ earlier works and one I would definitely recommend you check out!
I really like the story.
It was evinced by the king in the story.
He tried to be happy but he can't because his passion was gone, and become unproductive.I think that whatever passion you're into, it does not matter as long as you're happy and honest with yourself.
It does not matter if what you love is childish or something.
If it will become real, I will admire King Birtram and his quirky way to play.
Because the way I see it, Lord Droon was only insecure and envied the king because he was too happy and contented.
One of the books from the very beginning of Dr Seuss's career.
It is a prose story with longer passages and no rhymes.
I would have preferred the rhythm of reading that I got use to in other Seuss stories, but maybe he hadn't established that yet when he wrote this piece.
This is a story of a king who works hard and rewards himself with an hour of running on stilts.
But this one guy decides that is not very kingly behavior and gets rid of the stilts.
Everything in the kingdom falls to pieces until the stilts are restored.
My 5 year old loved this book. She asked for it every day until I got tired of reading it. We have moved on to chapter books, but she still asks for it occasionally. I'm not sure what she relates to about it, but it really drew her attention. I like the lesson of working hard, and then playing hard. Without the reward of his stilts, the hard working king became depressed and just stopped working. I'm not sure if my daughter caught this message or if she just enjoyed the adventure and silliness but it was definitely a favorite.
In my opinion this, like all of Dr Seuss' longer works is a true story that he rearranged to be funny.
The moral is deeper than just "balance play and work." Lord Droon has it in for anything that embarrasses him, and the King's habit of exercising and keeping himself in good health and good spirits on the top of a pair of red stilts was only threatening to the one person who wanted the King to fail and the kingdom to drown.
Only Dr Seuss could make that light enough to jump up on a pair of red stilts and run around with it's cape flapping.
It's one of the rare prose books (no rhymes here at all) and fits in with Bartholomew and the Ooblek and the 500 Hats of Bartholomew Cubbins, except it's a different king, a different page, and a different kingdom.
The message of this book about a king who works hard by day and plays hard in the evening (with some stilt walking) seems to be that all work and no play is bad for society in general, and that while one must work one's hardest and accomplish good ends, a little fun will keep the mind and spirits bright and active.
For one of the non-colourful, non-rhyming early Seuss books, I found this one rather charming. It may lack the amusement of Seuss's made-up lingo and bouncing rhythm, but it loses none of its whimsy due to the carefully depicted character of the hardworking king who takes afternoon jaunts around the palace grounds via stilts. Only Seuss would be able to successfully depart the important message of having fun alongside the importance of working hard through a seemingly silly story - a theme that he would continue throughout his career as a writer and illustrator.
Dr. Seuss's classic treatise on the importance of a balanced life, that is such a good description of this book. Pretty standard stuff really, a nice hard working king who loves a bit of fun, a young boy who helps him and a nasty old grumpy man who doesn't like fun.... and a pair of stilts.We enjoyed the story and I really do like these grey and red illustrations that Dr Seuss uses, they stand out really well on the pages.
A must read for anyone in a leadership position.
One of his earliest (1939), obviously about the Netherlands...obviously.
The trees are what protect the land from being overflowing with ocean water and unfortunately these Nizzards birds love to chew and destroy the trees.
Luckily he commands these patrol cats to chase away the birds.After working hard he loves to play hard and loves using these red shiny stilts.
When word gets out that the stilts get out, the King gets depress and the kingdom quickly turns upside and starts a crisis as water is pouring into the town.
But I felt like between the whole chase of the missing stilts it took away the main message and just dragged it along.
Christmas 1967 was one of the most memorable and happy days of my childhood.
We were poor and I knew it, so I wasn't expecting much for Christmas, but I was still nearly overwhelmed by the thrill and excitement of the season.
That year, despite our poverty, my parents somehow managed to acquire a sizable array of gifts for our Christmas tree.One of those gifts was this book, The King's Stilts by Dr. Seuss.
I enjoyed many wonderful and thoughtful gifts and had many memorable experiences that Christmas season, but the one thing I consistently and always remember about that day is this book.
I loved it, and still do to this day.
A hard working king needs his afternoon of fun stilt-walking to keep on top of his job - which is managing the Patrol Cats the fight the Nizzards off from eating the trees the form the barrier against the see and the kingdom of Binn.
The stils are stolen by the evil Droon everything goes to pot.
On the brink of destruction, Eric, the kings page boy, returns the kings stilts and saves the day.Moral: Work hard AND play hard.
While this was an enjoyable story (though a bit long for reading aloud in one sitting), I like Dr. Suess' rhyming stories better.Illustrations are whimsical.
A cautionary tale about maintaining vigilant defenses, keeping on top of your duties, and the price of honor. (view spoiler)[There's also a lesson in there about stupidly building in an environment under constant threat from external environmental forces. No one in their right mind would provide insurance in Binn. (hide spoiler)]
I think this has to be my favorite Dr. Seuss book. When I read it to my kids, they were all unanimous in giving it five stars.One thing I really like about this book is the notion that everyone needs something to lift them up and give them some balance. What a great way to do it if you have a pair of red stilts.
This has always been my favorite Dr. Seuss book. I really liked the story and the message. I think his use of red in the pictures is wonderful and interesting. I always connected with the underlying messages of accepting who you are on the inside and having fun but knowing how to work hard and effectively when the time comes.
This is probably my favorite Suess book and I tried it out on my grandsons this week. I wondered if they were ready to sit for longer text in this book but I shouldn't have worried. This book is still fabulous for kids and they were captivated by the Nizzardly danger to the dike trees.
✭✭✭✭½
2.5I expected more.
Dike Trees memegang peranan penting bagi kerajaan ini, karena merekalah yang menghalangi air laut masuk ke dalam Binn.
kerajaan itu akan tersapu bersih dari peta.Begitu pentingnya Dike Trees, sampe-sampe raja mengerahkan sepasukan meong, yang jumlahnya nggak tanggung-tanggung: SERIBU EKOR!!
Tapi, kenapa butuh meong sebanyak itu?Soalnya, Dike Trees ini pohon yang sangat lezat.
xD Jadi yah, si paduka ini hobinya maen egrang di kala senggang di tengah padang ilalang bareng dayang-dayang yang maen layang-layang...
Ada seorang jahat bernama Lord Droon yang menganggap hobi sang raja ini sangat kekanak-kanakan, dan diapun merencanakan sebuah konspirasi bessaarrr untuk melenyapkan egrang kesayangan paduka.
Dari sepasang egrang aja, bisa lahir cerita tentang kerajaan yang lucu begini.
But I do have to wonder about the king's observation skills when he doesn't pick up on Eric not being around for days, and when he suddenly does show up, he ignores him.
And yes, what a contradiction, that I'm complaining about realism in a fantasy…*grin*…The StoryThe work of the day is keeping those Patrol Cats happy and fed so they can perform the most important work of the kingdom: keeping those Dike Trees safe and alive lest the ocean come roaring in and drown the kingdom.The CharactersKing Birtram is a hardworking ruler in the kingdom of Binn.
In order to keep the sea back, he has to care for the Dike Trees, which are a tasty treat for the Nizzards, so he must employ 1000 Patrol Cats to control the Nizzards.King Birtram's work is tiring, but he's up to the many varied tasks because he allows himself some down time to enjoy his stilts.
It is so well written and the elements of the story are entertaining and relatable though completely far removed from my own life.I highly recommend this book to adults who are overworked and underplayed.
We recently read The King’s Stilts by Dr. Seuss. In our class only two people had read this book before so it was a new Dr. Seuss book for most of us. Our class read it together and we enjoyed this classic Dr. Seuss tale about the Kingdom of Binn and it’s unusual problem of keeping the seawater out of it’s kingdom. The sea was held back by the large roots of the Dike Trees. However, these roots were a favorite of food of the notorious Nizzard birds. In order to protect the trees the King employ
In our class only two people had read this book before so it was a new Dr. Seuss book for most of us.
Our class read it together and we enjoyed this classic Dr. Seuss tale about the Kingdom of Binn and it’s unusual problem of keeping the seawater out of it’s kingdom.
However, these roots were a favorite of food of the notorious Nizzard birds.
When the King lost his favorite toy, his stilts, he became sad and the kingdom fell into despair.
We enjoyed reading about how the kingdom battled the Nizzards and the sea.
Growing up, I knew this book to be one of my father's favorites.
That would mean, of course, it would have to be my favorite too, right?
Though it may not be my favorite book, it is certainly one that I enjoy.
I love the art and what a simple yet powerful message it gives.
There must be a balance.
Dr. Seuss wonderfully shows us this balance not only by showing us the King's daily activities, but also the King's hobby.
The King loves his red stilts - an activity that requires balance - much like our own everyday lives.
I don't think I'd ever seen this book before, so we were delighted to discover a new Dr. Seuss story.
We've been on a bit of a Dr. Seuss kick lately, searching for any of his books that we haven't yet read - I didn't realize just how many books he wrote!This tale differs from many of his beloved stories.
It's not filled with fantastic, crazy creatures.
Despite the fantastical creatures, it's one of the more straightforward stories I have ever seen of his.
It's a dramatic and entertaining story, filled with cheek and wry humor.
We enjoyed reading this book together.

This is not a well-known title by the good "Doctor," but it is my favorite Dr. Seuss book.
I love the patrol cats and despise the nizzards (how apt is that name?).
I applaud our hero's cleverness when he ties the guards' spears together with his belt in order to escape.
I love walking on stilts -- and when I was a child, I begged my father for a pair of red ones -- which he made for me!
And I love reading this story aloud -- the natural cadence of the words lulls the listener to sleep...
A perfect bedtime story!
This was a quick read. You have a bored bureaucrat resort to treachery because he doesn't like the happiness of others. The the Kingdom goes straight to hell. Thankfully one of the low-paid and underappreciated castle helpers saves the day. He does this by disobeying the orders of the corrupt bureaucrat, who at that point, everyone still thinks is not corrupt. Things work out in the end, but people regular workers were scared needlessly.
Do Kings' go around galavanting in red stilts? According to some people, "no" should be the answer, but maybe that is not the right answer...This book was an interesting little tale. Leave it to Dr. Seuss to have a kingdom depend on something as simple and silly as a pair of red stilts to save the day.*Taken from my book reviews blog: http://reviewsatmse.blogspot.com/2008...
