https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19161885-cropper-s-cabin
This is not a popular book among Thompson readers, probably because it's really, really not a crime novel and certainly not a thriller.
But if you're looking for the "Jim Thompson Feeling," don't read it -- in terms of plot and worldview, it bears very little resemblance to his Romans Noir.
That's a total mischaracterization of this novel; it's not a crime novel; it's not a thriller; it's not a noir.
As such, it's a terrible choice if you're looking for a short nasty Thompson novel, but an invaluable glimpse into what sort of man Thompson really was.I loved it.
About as close as you’re gonna get to a literary version of a Russ Meyer movie like “Mudhoney” or “Common Law Cabin” with a strappin’ young hillbilly science scholar fightin’ off the pulchritudes of his half-breed girlfriend, steamy buxom foster maw or even the apple biting teacher with the biggest pair of blackboard erasers this side of the Loozyanna swamps. Just to keep the Russ vibe flowing there’s whips crackin’ and jeeps flyin’ through the next 158 pages. Maw even pleasures herself on Page 48, too much. Haji call your agent.
From 1952. An intense novel. A saga of suffering, pain, beatings, twisted ankles and wrongful imprisonment.
This is my first Thompson book and I guess this particular story is not like his others but it was brilliant. A story that I thought was going to be a coming of age, against all odds type of story but turns into something very tragic, heartbreaking and disturbing. As uncomfortable as I was reading it, it ended the right way. What a relief!
The first half of this novel is such a great setup that it had me thinking that this might just be one of my favorite Thompson novels but the last half seriously deteriorated in a haze of lame dialogue and many pages of unexplained willful disobedience by the protagonist while he is serving a prison sentence. So after the rip-roaring start I ended up being disappointed.
Another time, another place, star crossed lovers, and no wasted words or time. An absolute masterpiece.addendum. accidentally re-read. Felt ever so familiar for ten pages and when i realized, i finished it again.
Not recommended to readers just getting started on on the work of Jim Thompson.Everything bad you've read about this novel is understated.Tawdry, tiresome, and predictable.
Another great book by Jim Thompson. Tom Carver does everything he can to ruin his own life. His father and teachers treat him like he is smart. But he does very little to support this. Very dramatic. One thing stands out in my mind: a lawyer is featured in this at the second half of the story and all the dialogue coming out of his mouth is just great, reminds me of Bob Odenkirk channelling Saul.
"Cropper' Cabin" is unlike anything else Thompson published.
Tommy grew up in a shareholder's shack in the Oklahoma countryside with his meanspirited stepfather and Tommy is busy romancing a rich man's daughter and causing all kinds of havoc at school.
Thompson paints this bitter town with a broad brush, encompassing poverty, incest, race relations, legal affairs, and more.
In many ways, it is a coming of age story as Tommy has to grow up and stand up to his father, to his girlfriend's father, and to the law, which it appears Tommy has run afoul of.This is a fairly short book and very easy to read.
And with that newfound stubborn pride and determination, Tommy continues to take a stand… perhaps one that goes a bit too far…The novel itself feels a bit disjointed, and it wouldn’t surprise me if it was written before The Killer Inside Me. The first half of the novel is great setup, showing Tommy’s flawed world, watching him square his shoulders and take a stance against his father’s racism while taking the fall for a crime he didn’t commit.
This is definitely second-rate Thompson, but it's also distinctively Thompson, if that makes sense. The usual elements are here - overbearing father, seductive step-mother, violence, murder, a lawyer by the name of Kossmeyer - but it all rather peters out in the final third.
He has been offered a good sum of money for the mineral rights, but the owner won’t let him do it.
Tom, the cropper’s son, is his last hope.
The troubles with money, however, force the son, Tom, to turn ornery.
He’s also on the rocks with his girlfriend, Donna.
She just happens to be the daughter of the big ranch owner.
Temper rise, and fights break out over the differences in opinion about the oil rights.
This basic difference over the quick buck vs.
It was almost as if Thompson had dictated the book and never looked at the page proofs.
Y aunque Tierra sucia no es una novela perfecta ni mucho menos, tiene ese tono un poco apresurado con el que se escribían los Pulps de la época, un poco impaciente por pasar de una escena a otra, una trama en apariencia sencilla y un poco trillada, es una novela potentísima y está llena de reflexiones sobre el racismo, el amor, el abandono, la relaciones entre padre e hijo, sobre el inicio de la vida y hacerse mayor, la soledad…https://viajealrededordeunamesa.wordp...
Cropper's Cabin is a stone-cold bummer, which should come as no surprise to Jim Thompson fans.
What I appreciated most about it is that Thompson draws on his experiences growing up in Oklahoma to inform the story, characters, and setting.
In an unexpected twist, white characters are presented as trashy, nihilistic bums oppressed by a wealthy family of Native American land barons.
That, really, is the most unexpected thing about the story; it's little more than a pastiche of Thompson's other work.
Worth reading for fans, but nothing special.
After his breakthrough fourth novel, The Killer Inside Me, Jim Thompson's fifth, Cropper's Cabin, feels like a variation on the proverbial sophomore slump. The novel's narrator, nineteen-year-old Tommy Carver, is poised to rise above his origins as a sharecropper's son: He's getting an education, and he's the secret beau of Donna Ontime, daughter of his father's wealthy landlord. Then, of course, things turn noirish, but the narrative never gains much momentum. On the whole, Cropper's Cabin is not a bad book, but there's certainly no harm in skipping it.
interesting read. examines issues of race, community, responsibility... totally accessible. occasionally crackling language, but overall kind of disappointing. the plot is tightly wound and i expected more of a SNAP when the time came. i would recommend this to people who don't like to read much. or people who have a thing for oklahoma or white/indian relations in the 1950s. or fans of crime novels. i might read another one or two of thompson's books just to see whether the book was just a weaker effort or if he is just not a top ten favorite.
A very entertaining novel about an Oklahoma sharecropper's son who gets framed for a murder. This is the perfect vacation read. Short, easy, and engaging. Not the best of Jim Thompson, but his talent as a great storyteller shines through nevertheless. I had two cheap paperback copies, so I took one on a backpacking trip and read the whole thing in about two sittings.
Minor THOMPSON - not as sordid as most. There is a femme fatale, but she's more feverish than fatal. The protagonist is a hot-head mired in the share-cropper clutches of his father, an Okie from Miskogee. And while a tad naive, he's a totem of goodness.There's actually more good people than bad - again going against Thompson type.
A sharecropper-in-hell crime story in which the crime isn’t much of a mystery. American Indian ritual, courtroom satire & an underlying self-help type positive message make this just weird enough to be interesting.
It as one of those stories that I read just to have something to read and it had me carried away from the first page. It was odd, in that the way the characters said things was something I had to think about to make sense of it. Hmmm.
a jim thompson book with a happy ending???!? i keep rereading it, thinking it's a mistake... not that i don't like it, it's just... disorienting... i don't trust it... i feel like it's a trick...
What a joy to return to Jim Thompson with this doozy. I knocked a point off for the ending, but on all other fronts it delivered!
although a saccharine metaphor is employed at the end, it's used for a glimmer of hope, also atypical for thompson.
Raw human emotion captured perfectly and succinctly.
If you enjoy Jim Thompson books, this is a good (& slightly different) entry. In some ways a bit more insightful than the other Thompson books I've read.
This story is a tragic story about a sharecropper and his son. A tale of injustices and lessons learned. very quick and easy read while very entertaining.
Disgruntled poor white trash lash out at rich half caste neighbours and educated half castes. Dark but mediocre.
