https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80795.Mimesis
Both are tremendously influential on Western literature, of course, but Auerbach asserts that the Odyssey is direct about listing facts in the narrative, and the religious narratives have omissions to heighten the sense of mystery and suspense.From there we go forth through the later Romans, the medieval romances and passion plays, courtly romance, Montaigne's essays and the role of the author, Don Quixote, the 19th century Germans, the French authors of Balzac, Stendhal, and Flaubert, and concludes with the high modernists of Joyce, Woolf, and Proust.
I was particularly impressed with his analysis of medieval literature and its reaction to classical norms, a topic which I know nothing about, but also his look at Virginia Woolf.A book for those who love books and want to further plumb their depths.
Maybe the most impressive work of literary criticism ever written, not least because of the circumstances under which it was composed: Auerbach, a German philologist fired by the Nazis for being a Jew, in exile in an Istanbul library as European civilization destroyed itself — re-imagining the literature that had given it birth. The book's insights are inexhaustible. I've returned to it again and again for 30 years.
I wish I had done so; it would have clarified Auerbach’s argument for me at the onset and helped me avoid floundering with definitions and connotations (especially of “reality”) for the first one hundred pages or so.Auerbach proceeds chronologically, starting with Homeric and Hebraic literature and continuing through the modernist novels of Woolf, Proust, and Joyce.
This leads almost inevitably to Flaubert, Balzac, and Goncourt, which then brings the text at last to the English modernists.This summary suggests more of a romp than this long, carefully crafted, deep and thoughtful book actually represents.
This thing blew my mind.
Shakespearean tragedy is distinct from Greek tragedy on two counts: 1) the chronotopic possibility of a story is expanded to any time and place since society now has a sense of history, and 2) tragic events stem from the heart of individual characters rather than from puppet personages.The Enchanted Dulcinea: The equanimity of Don Quixote's illusion forgoes all questions of value and tragic/comic strata.
"In this unprejudiced and exploratory type of representation we cannot but see to what an extent--below the surface conflicts--the differences between men's ways of life and forms of thought have already lessened.

Autore: tedesco (1892-1957).
Edizione PBE del 1975.E’ uno di quei testi che annullano il concetto di tempo relativo.Dimostra che certi scritti sono legati solo al tempo “giovane”.
Il tempo “maturo” ha più riferimenti, informazioni, ma perde in elasticità e concentrazione.E non dipende dal punto di vista in cui mi colloco.
Lo chiamo togliere la polvere o riordino, così mi capitano tra le mani libri che dovrei rileggere (senso di colpa), altri di cui non ricordo quasi nulla (senso di frustrazione), e quelli che a rileggerli dovrei tornare sulle frasi almeno due volte (senso di inadeguatezza).Polvere sui libri?
magico potere del riordino?
Auerbach is the dreamguide in literature.
Mimesis: The Representation of Reality in Western Literatureby Erich Auerbach 1946 - 573 p For many readers, both inside and outside the academy, Mimesis is among the finest works of literary criticism ever written..A half-century after its translation into English, Erich Auerbach's Mimesis still stands as a monumental achievement in literary criticism.
A brilliant display of erudition, wit, and wisdom, his exploration of how great European writers from Homer to Virginia Woolf depicted reality has taught generations how to read Western literature.
And I honestly do believe that reading it will make you a better reader and a better writer.Auerbach's main theme is the issue of how reality is represented in literature, particularly how a relatively strict separation of styles and classes gave way in slips and bursts towards a more modern sense of realism in which everyday accidentals could be imbued with tragic weight.
But I think on the whole he makes a compelling case, and this work deserves 5 stars if only for its sheer breadth of ambition and imagination.PS: It's an undeniably dense book, but one that can be understood even if you're not familiar with literary theory (I'm definitely not) and even if you haven't read all the works he spotlights.
Esse livro é simplesmente maravilhoso. Se você é "de humanas" mas por algum motivo tem um problema com "os clássicos", acho que é uma boa entrada, tão empolgante é a análise. Quando algo que não tinha lido era discutido, me dava vontade de ler; quando já conhecia o material, era muito gratificante. É testemunho da qualidade artística do próprio livro que ele é uma tentativa de propor e demonstrar algumas teses sobre o que vem a ser a representação da realidade na literatura ocidental, mas o texto é tão absorvente que isso muitas vezes não passa de um detalhe.
Bettelheim states, "Now I myself felt his feelings were really not all that different from the normal, what one would call the well-adjusted, normal person.So is it better to read fiction with an eye toward "becoming" a more real person by getting beyond the literature (Plato), or is it better to read as if the protagonist is sharing his/her own imitation which is a fundamental expression of human experience and much closer to a need for all people within a society to acquire (Aristotle).
His close attention to the primary texts also makes this, for me, a more enjoyable read than much other literary criticism, which either reacts largely to other critical texts or makes speculations and abstract claims about primary works (or both).
Finally, the whole situation of the author, which does influence the nature of his writing (and he even addresses these concerns to a certain point), gives an added edge of intrigue to the reading: Auerbach, a secular Jew, having fled from Nazi Germany, writes from Istanbul, a largely Muslim city, and his writings focus much on the impact of Christianity on world literature.
Auerbach's book is a series of discussions about discrete works, progressing from Homer to Virginia Woolf.
I felt like I was prepared to dive into this book based on my high-school curriculum and some more recent "Great Books" remedial reading (Dante).
The book doesn't so much lay out a theory of literary criticism, but instead provides examples of how Auerbach reads and thinks about reading.
Along the way, he makes a side by side comparison of, say, the Odyssey and Exodus seem like something you might do for fun.
Me gustó mucho cómo describe las diferencias estilísticas de los textos homéricos y los bíblicos.
La Biblia la leí 3 veces (bah, 2, la primera fue una versión abreviada), pero hace mucho, cuando estaba decidiendo mis creencias.
1650) (cita, epígrafe).* La Odisea de Homero (Grecia, s.
VIII a.C.).* La Ilíada de Homero (Grecia, s.
VIII a.C.).* Tanaj/Antiguo Testamento, anónimo (ca.
s. II).* Mención a los escritores Johann Wolfgang von Goethe (Sacro Imperio Romano Germánico, s.
XVIII-XIX), Friedrich Schiller (Sacro Imperio Romano Germánico, s.
XVIII-XIX), Cipriano de Valera (España, s.
XIX-XX).Indirecta:?
Not only a monument of literary criticism, but one of the most thrilling adventures of the mind, ever-- EA traces the development of the "representation of reality" from Homer and the Old Testament to twentieth century writers. Two chapters were particularly illuminating, the one on Dante which deals with the Farinata/Cavalcante Episode and the initial chapter which is a comparative study of mimetic techniques in Homer and the Book of Genesis. Edward Said's introduction is also very good; he places EA and his work in context and discusses the immense influence this book has had.
Every essay I've read so far has been really interesting (which is only three). I've enjoyed the first one "Odysseus's Scar" the most. I'd never really thought to look at the Bible's narrative structure in contrast to Homer (I mean, why would I?) but I found the patterns that he pointed out were actually really useful in thinking about fiction (and the back and forth in the way people think about fiction over the centuries, ie: the stuff I studied for Comps). For a theory book especially, this is quite clear and illuminating.
One of the greatest works of criticism in the 20th century and he did it without almost any access to books, notes, or anything else. The part on Odysseus's scar is legendary (excuse the pun.) This man loved books and so he ingested them for future reference. His commitment to reading closely for the details that shine is something all too lost in most of today's quickreads.
Reading and thinking about Ranciere's Aisthesis has led me to return to Auerbach's Mimesis, which I read many years ago, and this reaffirms my intuition that Mimesis is still the pinnacle of literary criticism/history/theory/whatever you want to call it.
Thus while, on the one hand, the reality of the Old Testament presents itself as complete truth with a claim to sole authority, on the other hand that very claim forces it to a constant interpretative change in its own content; for millennia it undergoes an incessant and active development with the life of man in Europe.The claim of the Old Testament stories to represent universal history, their insistent relation—a relation constantly redefined by conflicts—to a single and hidden God, who yet shows himself and who guides universal history by promise and exaction, gives these stories an entirely different perspective from any the Homeric poems can possess.
I wish I had more time and intelligence at my disposal to fully drink from Auerbach's well.
His analysis and comparison of various literary texts and what it reveals about the societies that produced them yield enormous fruit, with much of it out of my reach.
My only complaint is that, while he draws great insights out of Biblical texts, he is unnecessarily polemical in ways that are not important to his argument.
Auerbach is obviously entitled to his opinions.
. .,' instead of 'The Elohist seeks to.
Still, none of this really detracts from the great value of his work.
El ambicioso análisis comprende más de 3 mil años de textos y está articulado por una comparativa que va desde la antigüedad clásica al modernismo; es decir, desde Homero, la Biblia, algunos historiadores romanos, San Agustín, Bocaccio, Dante, Rabelais, Cervantes, Shakespeare, hasta Voltaire, Stendhal, Balzac, Zola, Proust, Woolf, etcétera, si bien excluye a los rusos totémicos del siglo XIX (Dostoievski, Tolstoi, Gógol, Turguéniev) de un sondeo más profundo debido a que sus análisis exploran tanto en la lengua original como en la influencia que dejaron allende sus fronteras.
one of the great works of philology/literary criticism in world history.
opens with a famous reading of homer and the hebrew scripture, and builds it episodically through history, culminating in To the Lighthouse, which is perhaps as it should be.
Written while on the run from the NSDAP and without his library (though not without a library, as folk history has it), has as its purpose tracing the "complete emancipation" from the doctrine of the ancients regarding literary representation, one which is "more complete, and more significant for later literary forms of the imitation of life, than the mixture of le sublime and le grotesque proclaimed by the contemporary romanticists" (554).
Auerbach tracks the development of realism in Western literature from Homer to the twentieth century novel, highlighting the style of the gospels and the thought of Christianity as the decisive influence in the move away from the classical style to the concern with the inner world and the lower classes evinced in later Western literature.
While there are aspects of Auerbach's analysis that can be debated, his overall argument is sound and I believe he demonstrates his thesis.
Instead, Auerbach, due to his circumstances at the time of its writing, provides a passage from each work he discusses and proceeds to comment upon and extrapolate from that passage.
A sampling of the progress of realism in literature from The Odyssey to Virginia Woolf's To The Lighthouse. Each major work is explored through an extended representative quote in the original language and in English translation. (It is not clear that all editions included the translations. This one, however, does.) Related works both from the time and from modern scholarship are brought into each discussion.Mimesis is not only filled with remarkable insights on the works Auerbach chooses as exemplary of various times and traits. It is an entertaining read. This book is deservedly a classic of its kind.
This was why I read Mimesis. I sure am glad I did. It's only been a few years now, but it's probably time I read it again.
Brilliant.
Only read the first chapter, 'Odysseus' Scar', a brilliant essay about differing representations of reality in Homer's 'Odyssey' and the Old Testament.
Still masterly, in the better sense. The first chapter is mind-bending, in the better sense again.
Ένα πολύ απαιτητικό βιβλίο που απαιτεί γνώση της ευρωπαϊκής λογοτεχνίας. Μόλις το ολοκληρώσεις, είσαι διαφορετικός άνθρωπος.
