https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/233711.Father_and_I_Were_Ranchers
I didn't want to read it because I thought it was a dumb title, and I don't like sad farming stories set in the Great Depression.
Whether it's cattle, or horses, or men; the least government is the best government (80)." "Son, there are times a man has to do things he doesn't like to, in order to protect his family (120)." I bet this was my husband's favorite: "There are only two kinds of men in this world: Honest men and dishonest men.
...Any man who says the world owes him a living is dishonest.
I'm city-born and horse-shy, but I'm also descended from Colorado ranchers and horsemen dating back to 1870, so I'll be the first to admit that I have a serious soft spot for all things cowboy and all things Colorado - it’s just in my jeans, I guess.
With that in mind, you'll probably want to take what follows with a block of salt:Written in beautifully spartan prose, Little Britches is told through a series of (autobiographical) parables derived from life on a dirt ranch near the Colorado foothills beginning around 1906.
The writing is compelling and often hilarious but, be forewarned, the facts of Colorado ranching life at the turn of the century will occasionally bring you to your knees.
Set from 1906-1908 in Colorado, this follows Ralph for a couple of years.
He's quite the young man with quite the father, but that's not what made the book for me.
It's a great look at a small farm, too.There's a great set of morals running through the story which makes it a great YA book.
Pretty perfect read for the Xmas season.Don't read the book descriptions for the next book, which does follow Ralph, until you've finished this one as it contains a big spoiler.
Looks like there are 8 books in the series.
It robs them of the confidence and security that would come of knowing how to do a man or woman’s work, of knowing they make a material difference to their family, of the opportunity to learn and practice adult skills while there is still a safety net to catch them when they fall.
It blinds them to the true sources of happiness and prosperity: personal integrity, hard work and responsibility.We often hear of widespread teen angst and depression.
Kids today are taught all about so-called freedoms that come with growing up but there is little talk of new responsibilities.

My reading tastes were catholic *in the sense of universal* and included National Geographic Magazines form the '20's and '30's, my Great grandfather's Oklahoma grade school textbooks, The Farmer Stockman, The Reader's Digest, any newspaper, cereal box, or other printed matter I could find, and a hand full of little Golden Books, carefully gleaned from many trips to the grocery store and good behavior.
Noting my discouragement at school, he handed me a copy of Little Britches, and I read my first novel.
I laughed, cried, suffered, hoped, and grew along with Ralph, Grace, Phillip and Muriel, Father and Mother, King, and of course, Fanny and Two Dogs.
Whether it's cattle, or horses, or men; the least government is the best government (80)." "Son, there are times a man has to do things he doesn't like to, in order to protect his family (120)." "There are only two kinds of men in this world: Honest men and dishonest men.
If he tells lies to be able to do the things he shouldn't do but wants to, his character will soon become a ruin.
A man with a ruined character is a shame on the face of the earth."
I checked this book out from the library....
I definitely need to acquire this one for myself.
I LOVED it!
I love the simplicity of how the story is told through the eyes of an 8-year-old boy, and how he's able to portray such a vivid picture with his memories.
I love the relationship between Ralph and his parents, but particularly his father.
I love his father's wisdom (there are many parts I would underline if I had my own copy) and the gentle yet memorable ways he teaches him to be an honorable man.
Such a good book!
I read this (~a chapter/week) aloud to three grandsons (ages 11, 7, 5) who are into horses and mini-farms.
I've always considered this series a "Little House" for boys.
He also asked if I would read the next book in the series, which was an easy 'yes' since Man of the Family is my favorite.But, evaluating the whole experience, I find myself reluctant to recommend this to all but the very bright reader.
I hate saying that, but the difference between reading this to my sons twenty-five years ago and with my grandsons this year astonishes me.
This book is the first in a whole series of biographies about the Moody family, who went west around 1908 to become farmers in Colorado. The story of young Ralph Moody, his interactions with his parents, his lively descriptions of neighbors, cowboys and other characters all make his set of biographical novels a pleasure from start to finish. I read these first as a child, but have kept a copy of all 8 books nearby to re-read on a regular basis. Try them out.... they are worth the time.
Wonderful story!! My husband read it to the kids in summer of '08 then I read it myself that fall. I cried at the end of the story and loved the family relationships displayed in the book. Especially between Ralph and his dad. GREAT!!
Update 11/13 - Finished with kids.
Still wonderful--if I can be as wise a parent as this father, my kids will be all right.Wow!
Great book - I read this the summer I graduated, along with every other book he wrote in this series that I could get my hands on (BYU's library didn't have them all, sadly).
These books are autobiographical and describe a boy coming of age with his father at his side--a great book for anyone raising little boys!
Definitely want to read this again for literature with my own kiddies someday!
I love this book more every time I read it.
Especially for parents of boys!3/30/15 I think I enjoy this book more and more every time that I read it.
I love the beauty and the simplicity of Ralph's relationship with Father.
Ralph wasn't forced or coerced into things by his father.
I love watching his transition from boy to young man.
What a wonderful relationship Ralph has with his father!This was my second time reading this book.
I read it this time with my boys.
It is such a great story about raising children and about Ralph learning and becoming a man.
This is the Boys' version of Laura Ingalls Wilder's Little House books.This is a brilliant antidote to the childish, fatherless culture that neither understands boys nor accommodates them.There is some language, and there are a few bad choices, though I believe the appropriate consequences are always shown--there might be one exception.A great choice for family read-alouds and dirt- and cowboy-loving boys everywhere.
This is what I call the "Little House on the Prairie" for boys. This is set in the same type of setting, rural farmland and a little boy and his family. I thouroughly enjoyed it. It showed his respect for his family and his love of horses. You can see how children at that time were forced into maturity at an earlier age. Life seemed more fragile, simple and gritty at that time.
A licking only lasts a short while, even if its a hard one, but failing to do the right thing will often make a mark on a man that will last forever."If you like that sort of thing, it's a five star book.
What a wonderful story! Read this aloud to my son and daughter and we all three loved it. That last chapter...whew!
Setting was super fun for me because I knew all the landmarks. Loved the coming of age story and relationship between Ralph and his father. Will be reading aloud to my son in the future.
It's been called a "Little House on the Prairie" for boys, and it's got similar themes-hard-working but poor family moving west to start fresh and live off the land, lots of kids, parents imparting wisdom, kids learning some hard-learned lessons.
He's a smart, honest, and hard-working man, living in the 'wild west' where things are often settled by fist fights, and he is a great role model for Ralph and for all kids reading this book.
One of the things that struck me (and this seems to be true whenever I read historical novels centered on kids) is how much responsibility and independence Ralph had.
"Son, there are times a man has to do things he doesn't like to, in order to protect his family."In this autobiography that's anything but dry or textbook-ish, Ralph Moody begins the story of his childhood.
Using both the risks and the excitement of their new ranching lifestyle, Ralph's father teaches his eight-year-old son the weighty principals of integrity, courage, and upright character."A man's character is like his house.
A man with a ruined character is a shame on the face of the earth," his father explains.Ralph and his family encounter a variety of exciting events during their first few years in Colorado: tornados, school fights, rodeos, auctions, personal tragedies, roundups, and trick riding, to name a few.
Ralph's family moves out west to Colorado on the advice of Cousin Phil to help Father's health.
The family works together to learn and grow at ranching - the great independent American Dream.
Ralph learns lessons in character, honesty, and manhood from his father along the way.
This book ought to be read aloud to edit for coarse language.We've already begun using some of the lessons Father taught Ralph - ideas like don't burn down your character house.The children were perhaps a little young for this book and it will definitely be a book we revisit later.
(M-girl has declared that this was her favorite read aloud).
Five years ago I read this for a book club and couldn't wait to introduce it to my family. We just finished listening to it on Audible read by Cameron Beierle. Mr. Beierle was outstanding and I felt that he brought the characters to life in a way that I could not. My 4 and 5 year olds listened as well, although I did have to explain what cursing was and why we don't do it. I was prepared for that though. My 8 year old son has asked incessantly to begin it again.
A friend just mentioned this series of books and I remembered reading them a while back 1-8 in quick succession. If you like coming of age books this series of deceptively simple looking books written by Ralph Moody who moved as a young boy from New Hampshire to a Colorado ranch and describe the pleasures and perils he and his family encounter in the early twentieth century are delightful. In the spirit of Cold Sassy Tree , an old classic favorite. 5 stars books 1-8
We LOVE this book; this was our third time through. This time, we are continuing on with the rest of the series. I noted lessons on character, thrift, education, self-sufficiency, honor, work, pride, charity, ingenuity, government and relationships.I envy the environment that produces 11 year old boys to have the skills that enable him to run a farm. It is inspirational.
I saw this referenced as a "Little House on the Prairie" for boys, and was eager to read it. In this memoir, which takes place in the early 1900s, Ralph (a.k.a. Little Britches) learns what it means to be a good man in the wilds of Colorado with the help of his wise and wonderful Pa.
I first read this book in September 2012 and I only gave it 3 stars. This time reading aloud to my children, I am giving it a full 5 stars! What an excellent read aloud book! Ralph Moody is a complete inspiration to us all!
What I am loving the most about this book is the wisdom of Father, as he teaches his son by counsel, precept and example.Still loving this book half way through. It is an excellent pick me up to read during illness and convalescence. I would love to read all the books in the series.
You go and read it.
First reading: March 2014Second reading: 2015Third reading: July 2016I actually think it gets better on every reading.
Five stars. Read aloud as a family. I, too, cried at the end. That is all.
