https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21027.Love_s_Executioner_and_Other_Tales_of_Psychotherapy
Dr. Yalom hates fat people, he develops a sexual attraction to one of his patients' multiple personalities and encourages her to incorporate this split-self into her overarching self so she'll be a more entertaining patient (and won't be so pathetic in general), he successfully convinces a lady to euthanize her incontinent dog in order to bolster her sex life (jerk), he sizes his patients up as hopeless human beings, rambling about how annoying certain cases were for him (with details), describing each individual while "masking their identities" to "protect confidentiality" in an almost Deconstructing Harry, Leslie's "not" Lucy sort of way.
Yalom writes his patients with the utmost respect and interest.I'd like to mention in particular one story that started off the collection on a bang for me with Thelma, “a depressed, suicidal, seventy-year-old woman,” who for the past eight years “could not relinquish her obsessive love for a man thirty-five years younger.”“Perhaps the function of the obsession was simply to provide intimacy: it bonded her to another—but not to a real person, to a fantasy.”My attention was riveted to her.
Compared to the intensity of the experiences described in LIFE AND FATE, even wonderful writers like Ian McEwan are boring.But, as the Preface accurately foreshadows, there is nothing boring about LOVE'S EXECUTIONER, because my friend is right-- the four issues described in the Preface do indeed define the human condition.In a sense, LOVE'S EXECUTIONER offers, in the broadest possible sense, the ancient wisdom found in Psalms 90: "Teach us to number our days: that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom." Dr. Yalom is quite frank about what he considers the "magical" thinking and "delusion" involved in religious belief, however.

و باید بگم فکر نمیکنم هیچوقت از خوندن اتفاقاتی که توی اتاق درمان میگذره خسته بشم.چهار ستاره دادم بخاطر علاقه ی ویژه م به روان درمانی و لذت خاصی که خوندن هر روایت برام داشت؛ و چون حس و حال من طی تمام داستان های کتاب، بستن چشم هام بود و تصور خودم توی متن هر داستان بعنوان درمانگر...خوندن سرگذشت آدم هایی که یه جایی از مسیر اشتباه کردن و راه رو اشتباه رفتن - اون هم از زبان و نگاه یه درمانگر - در عین دردناک بودن میتونه کمک باشه؛ شاید چون گاهی تموم چیزی که احتیاج داریم یه تلنگره...
A good working formula is: the more unlived life, or unrealized potential, the greater one's death anxiety."In his book Love's Executioner, Irvin Yalom, a psychotherapist with several decades of experience, shares ten stories of individuals he counseled in a professional setting.
Not all of his stories end on a clean note, and their ambiguous resolutions exemplify the complex and bumpy nature of therapy, similar to the convoluted quality of humans themselves.Yalom's openness stands out as a strong point in this book.
We all progress and learn together, even in a therapist-client relationship.Recommended to those interested in psychology, therapy, and reading about people.
Yalom is duplicitous and self aggrandizing, his writing screams contempt and distain for all but his most attractive female patients.
But it is Yalom's incessant and obnoxious inner monologue that ruins this book for me.
When one women, far below his standards and the first of the ten case studies that make up the book says her last therapist called her on her "...shitty habits" Yalom tells us, “This phrase startled me.
The insight he shows in the introduction of the book is waylaid time and time again by his incessant, obnoxious, and judgmental inner monologue.
The stories of 10 patients' experiences in psychotherapy - but they feel like much more.The stories offer a surprisingly engaging window to peek into the struggles of patients w/ the very same existential pains and miseries everyone experiences.
The author is a practicing therapist, and he based these stories on his patients (suitably amended to ensure anonymity).
He reflects much on his own role in the therapeutic relationship, and these reflections are often as interesting as the stories of his patients.Each person's story is engaging - their narrative just as intriguing as fiction.
«Ο δήμιος του έρωτα» ήταν μια παρορμητική αγορά αλλά δεν την μετάνιωσα καθόλου μιας και είναι ένα από τα αγαπημένα μου μη μυθιστορηματικά βιβλία που έχει γράψει ο Γιάλομ.Το βιβλίο περιλαμβάνει δέκα αληθινές ιστορίες ψυχοθεραπείας με βασικό τους πυρήνα τις ανθρώπινες σχέσεις αλλά και την αντίληψη των ανθρώπων για τον ίδιο τους τον εαυτό.
Η βιβλιοδεσία επίσης.Το προτείνω σε όλους όσους αγαπούν τα βιβλία ψυχολογίας και τους ενδιαφέρει να ανακαλύψουν πως είναι μια συνεδρία με έναν ψυχίατρο.
This book gave a lot of insights into the therapeutic process, but I found the guy a total putz--very self-aware of his own reactions to the patients he describes, but not so concerned about their own experience of the process that he wouldn't describe them in great detail to the world at large. Also, just comes off as self-satisfied; it made the reading distasteful, and I didn't finish in the end. I couldn't stand the supercilious sense he gives of being in some way, better than his clients.
In Love's Executioner you will read about interesting characters and their neuroses and watch from behind the scenes as Yalom applies his psychological scalpel (or in some cases sledge hammer).
Reading Love's Executioner, you are given an inside view of someone who has made a successful career at trying to understand and categorize something that cannot ever be understood or explained: the human mind.
Ironically, while Love's Executioner strongly demonstrates psychology's ineptitude at understanding the mind, the book also shows that when applied in therapy, psychology remains mysteriously effective.
Although the book does have a sort of instructional focus, I believe anyone could enjoy the content.
Yalom describes treating patients with a multitude of symptoms and presentations, and his intelligent and thoughtful approach to them all.
I remember reading this in graduate school and enjoying it, but it's not until I am here, three years removed from my master's and working in the field, do I actually grasp the WORK involved with these people.I did have a personal problem with the book, however.
I personally prefer a more behavior centered approach, but then I know I have to find a different author.
I ended up responding so well to the process, though, that I've continued seeing her in private practice ever since.As part of this therapy process, I've recently become fascinated with the idea of how my particular experience has compared to others; and it turns out that my own therapist is what's known as an "existential therapist," and decided to start loaning me books on the subject by one of her heroes, Irvin Yalom who essentially coined the phrase and was the first one to define it.
اين اثر اورين يالوم توصيف ماجراي روان درماني، ده بيماري است كه به درمان روي آورده اند. اين اثر پر از " خواستن" هاي انسان و تلاش او براي مقابله با اضطراب اگزيستانسياليس است كه هر كدام به نوعي با مرگ، تنهايي، آزادي و جستجوي معناي زندگي درگير هستند. اين كتاب مانند ساير آثار اروين يالوم جذاب و سرشار از نكات روانشناختي مفيد مي باشد.
Libro corposo, non solo per le 424 pagine e le 10 terapie qui raccontate.Ci sono esseri umani qui, corpi ovunque e anime e sentimenti e dolore e non solo: c'è il terapeuta e ci sono anch'io ora.
Libro corposo.
Ripieno d'esperienze, farcito di trattamenti terapeutici con e senza trucco e manipolazioni.Bella la definizione di 'creatore dei sogni' per l'ultimo paziente trattato: ognuno di noi lo è a prescindere dal lettino, reale o immaginario, su cui ci si racconta delle cose.
A volte le più belle cose.Poi, sull'utilità che si può trarre dal leggere libri su terapie e terapeuti rifuggendo sempre rifuggendo da essi, beh...
Ultimately, I think my problems with the book stem from the fact that Dr. Yalom expresses feelings that are just so very human (he even fantasizes about a patient at one point - the only beautiful one, of course), and I'm not used to thinking of psychologists as anything other than their professional fronts.
Still, you get the feeling that he's descended from his alabaster tower to bestow this book on the reading populace.First lines: "I do not like to work with patients who are in love.
As a psychology student with plenty of knowledge about mental health but zero experience with what actually happens in real life therapy, this book was incredibly interesting and helpful for me.
Yalom is refreshingly honest about his own thoughts and experiences in therapy, openly admitting to instances where he made wrong decisions and sharing his darker thoughts - thoughts that one would expect highly trained psychologists to be above as they operate in their supernatural realm free of judgement, discrimination and egocentrism.
This book is something special and I believe that students, experienced therapists, or just about anyone interested in the therapy process could benefit from it.
A more fitting title would be 'How counter-transference, insidious prejudice and sexism destroys the therapeutic process'. The man's a creep and from what I can tell in these vignettes a poor to average psychotherapist. Though, I can see how one could become seduced by his writings and spurious analysis to believe there is some insights to be gleamed from this book.
nothing / just read it when you are alone and nobody cannot listen to you. in different situation you can imagine " mayde it happened for me or my family....
As he tells the story of working with this fat woman, he talks about how she got motivated, joined the eating disorders program at a hospital he's affiliated with, and went on a liquid diet - ate literally no food for 6 months.
(Also, how can a place that purports that this is healthy call itself an eating disorders treatment facility??) Yalom then goes on to describe how the pounds began to fall off this woman - she went from about 240 pounds to about 150 - and how she got more and more depressed as this happened, even having flashbacks of things that happened to her at the point in her life when she was at each weight as she hit it.
I started reading this book with the expectation that I would find an interesting but nonetheless mechanical look into the brass tacks of psychiatry...
The entirety of the collection is used as an abstract for Dr. Yalom's belief that "existential psychotherapy" -- an operative stance where existential issues are the patient's core complications -- can be one of the most effective and multi-purposed tools in the psychiatrist's arsenal.
Each case-study illustrates the mechanics -- and the spirit -- of this approach in fascinating detail.One of the most interesting facets of this book is how candid Dr. Yalom is about his own feelings, biases, and reactions.
I read this book for a second time sometime last week and have been too busy to write anything about it.
Currently I really need to be asleep and am not, so this will be slightly confused, short, and likely unnecessary, deal.
The first time that I read this book I appreciated the fact that Yalom's therapy is relationship based.
What struck me when I read it this time was the fact that Yalom is one of the most fucked up people I have ever heard of.
He is constantly bored and has hubris like you wouldn't believe.
That's when I will be truly dead - when I exist in no one's memory.
I thought a lot about how someone very old is the last living individual to have known some person or cluster of people.
When that person dies, the whole cluster dies,too, vanishes from the living memory.
I wonder who that person will be for me.
Whose death will make me truly dead?” I loved it, gave me insight of how the therapist-patient relationships go, made me more understanding of how people perceive the idea of death, especially when they feel it's coming.
Definitvno najbolja Jalomova knjiga :)
Yıllar sonra kitaplığımın Yalom rafına iade ettiğim Aşkın Celladı'nı tekrar okumak, muhtemelen o yıllarda tecrübe etmemin mümkün olmadığı, psikanalize bakışımı dönüştüren bir deneyim armağan ettiği bana.
Eski ilişkisini takıntı haline getiren kadın, kanserin son evresinde can çekişirken çevresindeki bütün kadınlara asılmaktan vazgeçmeyen mahkûm, kaybettiği kızının ardından bitmek bilmeyen bir yas sürecine giren ve arkada iki oğlu ve bir eşi yokmuş gibi davranan anne ve diğerleri… Hepsi birbirinden ilginç, insan psikolojisinin karanlık labirentlerinde gezinen ve şahane finallerle ve her zaman mutlu olmasa da manalı sonlarla biten hayat hikâyeleri.
I chose the book for the play-by-play of the therapy hour, for Yalom's well-documented experience in psychotherapy and for my intimate knowledge of my own inexperience here at the beginning of my career.
The motivation to read the book was more or less to voyeuristically (but legally) violate HIPAA and be a fly on the wall during Yalom's work, all to placate the hateful little troll inside screaming at the top of her lungs, "HELP I AM GRADUATING I DONT WHAT THE HELL IM DOING".
Sunt patru lucruri care definesc condiția umană, spune Yalom, care sunt și bazele terapiei sale așa numit existențialiste: inevitabilitatea morții pentru noi și pentru cei pe care-i iubim, libertatea de a ne face viața așa cum dorim opusă neputinței sau responsabilității, lipsa unui sens evident al vieții și singurătatea noastră esențială.
În Călăul dragostei (Love’s Executioner în original), Irvin Yalom, reputat psihoterapeut și scriitor, profesor la Stanford, spune poveștile a zece pacienți, zece cazuri pe care nu le descrie “medical”, ci aproape literar, punându-se pe sine în centru.Pentru că asta face cartea atât de interesantă – terapeutul nu e absent, nu e atotștiutor, are propriile sale dileme, problemele pacienților trezesc în el reacții puternice.
"Four givens are particularly relevant for psycho-therapy: the inevitability of death for each of us and for those we love; the freedom to make our lives as we will; our ultimate aloneness; and, finally, the absence of any obvious meaning or sense to life." It is not without reason that Love’s executioner and other tales has developed a reputation as one of the leading books accessible for a lay reader on the interactions of psychotherapy.
It comprises of ten interesting stories, semi fictionalised by Yalom, of people dealing with life crises of one type or another.
In his introduction, Yalom lays out the fundamental ideas in which existential psychotherapy is grounded, including our “ultimate aloneness”: Existential isolation…refers to the unbridgeable gap between self and others, a gap that exists even in the presence of deeply gratifying interpersonal relationships – a seemingly strange premise for a book which consists of ten tales of a psychiatrist trying to understand and help his remarkable patients.
Moreover, as he reveals his own vanities, emotional baggage and struggles with counter-transference, he invites the reader to try to understand the therapist as well as the patient.
yalom is a freakin' massive genius is the world of psychology - he basically founded existential psychotherapy, and also was the first person to effectively use the group model in any productive way.
(he uses the process group method, dbt uses a more classroom style approach.) "the fat lady" is maybe the most famous story from here - what i love about yalom is you know he's the biggest pompous asshole, but at the same time, he's totally willing to admit he can be repulsed by patients, that he loses his temper, that he has faults.
valuable insight into what it's really like to deal with your inner critic running while you're practicing therapy, but ultimately was really repulsed by Yalom himself. he casts himself as the conquering hero of every story, he sexualizes all of his female clients, and is fatphobic to an incredible degree. even after re-reading and writing a new afterword decades later, he praises his younger self for his bravery and shows he learned exactly nothing about his incredibly problematic views of people of size
