https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3791158-and-he-built-a-crooked-house
a tesseract, RAH is having fun with a fourth dimension.”Down at the shallow end of the gene pool, amidst the knuckle draggers, the Cheetos eaters and the liberal arts majors, I nodded noncommittally and went to my friends at Wikipedia and found this helpful guide:"In geometry, the tesseract is the four-dimensional analog of the cube; the tesseract is to the cube as the cube is to the square.
Just as the surface of the cube consists of 6 square faces, the hypersurface of the tesseract consists of 8 cubical cells.
An LA architect wants to build something in a new style and ends up constructing a tesseract. The new home owners are not pleased. This humorous tale sets up a playground in which Heinlein considers the possibilities of the fourth dimension. A fun and intriguing bit of speculation.
And He Built a Crooked House is about a house built in the shape of a tesseract:When the architect of the house, the owner of the house and his wife go to have a look around they find that an earthquake from the previous day has caused parts of the house to be folded into the fourth dimension; leaving only one room visible and accessible.
Unwisely they enter the house and major dimensional weirdness ensues.The warping of space and dimensions remind me of M.
C. Escher’s drawings, “Relativity” in particular: The story is humorous in tone and quite mind blowing.
Like most geeky kids of my generation, I learned the word "tesseract" from this story. Interstellar is not an acceptable substitute. If STEM skills are decreasing, I wouldn't be surprised to find a direct causal relationship.
Like a cube in 3D, which has six square faces in different two-dimensional planes, a tesseract has eight cubical "faces" in eight different three-dimensional spaces.
The beauty is, if it moves on to another face and another dimension, coming back may be a bit difficult!Now consider the development of a hypercube in 3D space:If folded up in 4D space, we will see only a cube in our dimension.
If we enter that cube somehow, the exciting (and frightening) possibility of inter-dimensional travel opens up.This story is about a house shaped like the development of a tesseract, which gets folded up in an earthquake.
3.5 stars. Classic Heinlein short story about an architect named Quintus Teal who designs and builds a "four dimensional" house shaped like a tesseract (i.e., the four-dimensional analogue of a cube). Keeping a visual of the house while reading is a bit confusing but the story itself is a lot of fun.
Awesome tale of the forth dimension. Read this and Flatland in the same day and then start looking around for higher order interactions. :-)
Explanation of 4 dimensional Tesseract like Carl Segan, apt usage of alloys and constructional elements like a materials engineer, and Heinlein expostulating with himself through an architect and his client.I won't be surprised If Mark sites this mathematical fiction as inspiration material for the infamous House of Leaves. Or even for Tardis.
A clever architect designs a house in the shape of the shadow of a tesseract, but it collapses (through the 4th dimension) when an earthquake shakes it into a more stable form (which takes up very little room in our 3-dimensional space.)
I actually had to read this for a Calculus class my freshman year of college. It was probably the only good part of the class. At the time I hadn't ever read anything before by Heinlein, but this was definitely a nice intro to him. I don't remember too much of the story other than the concept of a tesseract house, but that alone was really amazing and worth it.
This is a short book but WORTH the read for anyone interested in higher dimensional theory.It is written in a playful narrative and explores the idea of a house built on a tesseract.It is really helpful for anyone trying to imagine in the fourth dimension and helps explain what it would physically be like to travel along a hypercube's curve.
My favorite short story be Heinlein! I reread this short almost every year. If you haven't go out and get this right now!
This is the short story that got me hooked on Heinlein, truely one of the masters of science fiction.
One of Heinlein's best short stories.
Somehow I ended up reading this thanks to TV tropes, and I don't even know why. It's a short story about an architect that creates a house in the shape of a tessaract, or a 4th dimensional shape, and then takes his friend and friend's wife to see it. Things go kind of pear shaped when they realize it's not so easy to just leave the house, and that a house with the shape of a tessaract is not so easy to navigate. Eventually, they get out, but then there's a new problem. It's a fun short story. Fe
It's a short story about an architect that creates a house in the shape of a tessaract, or a 4th dimensional shape, and then takes his friend and friend's wife to see it.
Things go kind of pear shaped when they realize it's not so easy to just leave the house, and that a house with the shape of a tessaract is not so easy to navigate.
It's a fun short story.
I had trouble wrapping my head around the tessaract shape, so I looked it up, and then things made more sense.
Still, fun short read.
Of all science fiction, I appreciate most those stories which incorporate otherwise abstract concepts in mathematics as key story elements. This short tale explores the higher dimensional geometry of hypercubes through the ambitious project of a young architect looking to make his mark on the aesthetics of his field.
Other than the fact that reality will collapse in on itself and the entirety of existence will, well, cease to exist, I honestly can't see no reason why an architect shouldn't save land cost by building a tesseract house.
this is black mirror episode material
I was quite far into this before I realised I had read it before, still enjoyable though.
My dad loved this story and I did too back in the day. I'm not sure I want to risk rereading.
available as a PDF here: http://homepages.math.uic.edu/~kauffm...
4.5 stars
Loved this fun little classic hard science fiction short story! So dated, which just adds to its appeal, if you ask me.
Typically just not really into heinlein. This was a good read
Just the cliche stereotypical role of Mrs. Bailey irritated me. Other than that it's wonderful.
Well overall good, this story seemed to fail me with it's imagery and thought process.
The idea there's a tesseract house is interesting, but it doesn't seem like it was the intended design for the main character.
And in addition the house itself is confusing in a way that could be made far clearer.
His other short stories are great.
Yes it was a hard idea to deliver on, but at the same time I understood it not because of the writing but because of other books, and worse, seems to break it's rules on a whim.
A great story. I am starting to identify a certain trope, which I really enjoy. Someone does something more or less innocent and due to some hypothesised physics law, the fabric of space gets altered in what feels like a fatal/unrepairable outcome. The space is what we take for granted, which makes it surreal.I plan to read it again to really try to understand the 4D geometry of the thing.
"And he built a crooked house" foi o meu primeiro conto de Heinlein. Depois de ter lido alguns dos romances, herdados do meu progenitor, decidi experimentar os contos. Se o conceito da história é possível ou se faz sentido do ponto de vista científica é coisa que não me interessa minimamente. Interessa é que me manteve entretido. Mas não queria morar numa casa assim.
I first heard of this short story in a lecture about tesseracts. It took me a year to finally dive into it. If you find yourself in the same position - don't hesitate, it's really short. It doesn't take more than an hour to get through and it's worth it. The story is original and truly captivating.
An interesting tale about a 4D house and the people trapped inside it. Very unique and well crafted, especially considering how long ago it was written. A must read for tesseract fans and anyone interested in 4th dimensional physics.
