https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37426.Little_Children
Her husband, Richard secludes himself in his study ignoring his wife and child as he becomes more and more involved with internet porn.Kathy and Todd:Kathy is a successful documentary filmmaker.
Her husband Todd stays at home taking care of their toddler son.
This includes scheduling sex with her husband, Louis every Tuesday evening at nine p.m.When Ronald McGorvey, convicted sex offender moves into the neighborhood the residents are angry.
I read this book over ten years ago.
My husband's name was also Todd, and he was staying at home to take care of our daughter.

Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/In case you haven’t seen me brag about it before are unaware, I work a couple of blocks away from this beauty . . . .  (^^^^That’s just the parking garage.)So I can go check out books conveniently during my lunch hour. (There’s also the porny library up in the ‘burbs that gives me the hookup on all of my . . . . scientific research projects.) Since Fall has finally fallen and the temps are no longer in the bazillions I’ve taken it upon
. scientific research projects.) Since Fall has finally fallen and the temps are no longer in the bazillions I’ve taken it upon myself to walk down to the ol’ bibliotech a time or two – and since I’m a farking crack addict I now have FIFTEEN physical books checked out in addition to a bunch of e-copies and eleventy thousand galleys.
Added bonus, since I suck at reviewing I have actually read a few of these already but keep getting distracted by squirrels the convenience of Kindle notes rather than the inconvenience of post-it notes so now I’m all like .
A dinette set could finish a marathon with time to spare well before I complete a book, but Perrotta's voice is easygoing and funny, and a master at pacing if you ask me, so I happily breeze right through.
But "Little Children", for which he has arguably received the most attention, is in no way his best book.
I will name my book 'Little Children'!
Tom Perrotta appeared in my library's Who Writes Like file when I entered Richard Russo's name.
Infidelity, a knicker-sniffing husband, a convicted child molester, an unfulfilled housewife, a retired cop with a penchant for violence but not too much actually about the 'little children'; it's an interesting mix.
As I've discovered in his other novels, Perrotta likes to talk about moral dilemmas and he put this reader in the moral dilemma of actually pitying a child molester and that did shake me up a little.
Perrotta writes with a sharp intuition into the human condition; this is an interesting, sometimes compelling novel.
This has got to be the first time in my entire life that I thought the movie version of something was better than the book.
Not only that, the movie managed to create complexity in the characters where the book did not.
I also felt like the book completely failed to create a believable bond between the parents and children in the story.
But the book does nothing to convince us that the main characters give even the slightest damn about their children.It's a first for me, for sure, but this is one case where the screenplay writer was a better artist than the novelist.
A character study of regretful adults. All reverting back to childhood with their desires and deeds. What do you do when you are unhappy with the choices you have made up to this point in your life? You seek an escape. That is what this novel is about. One of my recurring complaints about books in general is product placement. Ignoring my anti-consumerist attitude this was a good read. The ending was perfect.
I really loved it.Essentially, this is a very cynical book that explores the various forms selfishness can take through the viewpoints of several deeply flawed characters living in suburbia.
Loved this one and think it is a book that begs to be discussed in a group.
But be warned, if you must like the main characters to enjoy a book, like "feel-good" novels, or prefer a neat and happy ending, then this is not the book for you.
Perrotta has written a caustically funny satire of thirty-something suburban American life that we laugh aloud even as we see ourselves and our faults unerringly displayed.
The problems and insecurities and small-mindedness and flat-out lying that all the characters exhibit tell us so much more about what we think we can get away with and never can…but such outrageous and egregious faults!
Perrotta must have sat around thinking of what would be the worst of all the faults one could encounter in a spouse: faithlessness, online porn and used-panty fantasist, child molester, alcoholic, serial failure…when the child molester wishes he were an alcoholic instead, one just knows there is no way to escape unscathed.
Little Children is a fantastic book to read when you're in your mid-to-late 20's-early 30's.
There was something about the book to me that made me very uncomfortable in some parts because I could recognise my own fears of getting older, being a graduate student, and the possibility that so many years of schooling could amount to absolutely zero.Perhaps it is also because I grew-up in the area where this fictional town exists, North of Boston, that I felt uneasy with the text.
I love a book that is not only enjoyable but makes me feel rather haunted and uneasy, and gives me a reason not to return to my hometown ever.
Take Tom Perrotta, for example, author of Election, which was made into a highly successful movie in 1999, and was in fact arguably the film that turned Reese Witherspoon into a bona-fide star; and whose book I just happened to read a number of years ago on one of those dreary Saturdays we have here in Chicago, where you want to do nothing more than read random books for free for eight hours in one of those superstores while lounging around their cafe, thin books that you would never want to actually spend money to read.
***NO SPOILERS***Perrotta got it just right in this expertly written examination of suburban ennui and disillusionment, focusing on some young married-with-children couples and how they interact with each other, in both private and public ways. It's sometimes uncomfortable and a touch sad, and that's what makes it so great--there's real truth here. Scenes at a public pool work especially well to highlight the "suburbanness" of these characters' lives. Anyone who's every wondered, "This is it?" when pondering their mundane lives may find Little Children pretty resonant.
Wowzers-- If you thought the movie was good (which it was) then you'll love the book. Simply amazing. And harsh. And brutal. And real. The child molester story was hauntingly sad, and the affair with 'The Prom King' was wonderfully written. You FEEL the excitement mixed with shame oozing from the characters. This was a great read- so good that I have bought copies of this book for friends to read!
Expertly written, with a cynical touch that keeps you smiling while you read, Perrota paints a perfect portrait of the lives of people engulfed by routine, regrets and lives that make them fantasize for a better tomorrow.
I know these people.
I am not these people.
Delee must read this.So I've been in this women's book club at my lib for about a year now.
Usually our librarian chooses the books, but the last time we got together I boldly brought a few different books with me and tried to sell them to the group.
And now I am NERVOUS.I wanted to spice things up in our group and spice we will have.
I just hope that the gals in my book club will be able to get past Slutty Kay and her champagne bottle and come to love it too.
One National Book Award for Tree of Smoke(not that good - IMHO).Got well into this last night and by the time I'd put it down(reluctantly) I had reached a pretty favorable opinion of the proceedings.
A head whips around.- The perv at the pool thing reminds me of some movie or TV thing years ago with Jackie Earle Haley as the perv.
Heaven for him - the only happy one at the end of the book!- Final rating - 4.5* rounds down to 4* - very good, but not Updike great.- And one more little thingee ...
His presence among them serves as a catalyst for decisions and events that shape the lives of the other characters during that summer.I noticed the cover of the book said, "Now a Major Motion Picture." Apparently it came out in 2006 with a great cast: Kate Winslet, Patrick Wilson, and Jennifer Connelly.
It was good and very faithful to the book except for a slight, but extremely stupid, change to the ending.
Also, it’s annoying that you are expected to buy Kate Winslet as the “not pretty” character.
I enjoyed the movie adaptation more, but the book is still a solid read.
3.5. I liked this. I've had this for a long time. My sister gave this 4 stars and I know it was quite popular when it first came out but when I would read the back cover I thought, hmm meh. I was surprised at how much I enjoyed it. NONE of the main characters were likeable in my opinion except one, the mother of the child molester. I only had sympathy for her. If you need likeable people you won't find 'em here!
Two of the characters, Todd (married to Kathy) and Sarah (married to Richard) feel shackled, disillusioned and unfulfilled by the constraints and trappings of their conventional suburban life.
His wife Kathy resents his lack of ambition, is tired of being the family breadwinner and would prefer to be a traditional stay at home mom.Sara dropped out of graduate school to enter a marriage with a financially secure but unattractive older man to escape a life in a monotonous office job.
Sara feels trapped in her loveless marriage and in her role as a stay-at-home mom to their 3-yr-old daughter.
A minha opinião em vídeo: https://youtu.be/ul0Hg3h0B_4
While not every aspect of the story necessarily rings true, Perotta does a fantastic job of creating a secret world between Sarah and Todd, using the characters' own flaws to develop his story and build suspense.
While I can appreciate that the idea was to parallel a local public scandal against the fragile world created by Sarah and Todd's own private scandal, Perotta gave himself enough to work with in Sarah and Todd and their respective situations and personalities that he could have developed his story without the outside element.
However, I found the book, in all its scandalousness, juicy and enjoyable; in my opinion Perotta is a modern Tolstoy, a master of pinpointing banal but heartwrenching details.
So far this year, I've been doing a great job of picking out books exactly in line with my tastes.
Perrotta writes in a relatively straight-forward manner, with lots of dialogue.
Lots of really fucking GREAT dialogue.The story is about a few early-thirties-aged individuals in a small town, in which a convicted child molester has just moved back to, taking up residence with his mother.
The book is mostly about characters, and less so about plot, up until the end, which starts to feel somewhat plotted, but then goes in a direction that went completely agains what I'd been expecting.
Crew khakis or who remembers to bring the snacks, stay-at-home-dads can be labeled "Prom King", and women with sexual ambiguity can still mourn the loss of their college girlfriends who left them to marry rich male doctors, while looking after their children and remaining oblivious that their husbands are addicted to online smut.Ah, Suburbia.The main characters, Sarah (sexual ambiguous girl) and Todd ("Prom King") begin an unlikely affair, considering Sarah is frumpy, frizzy, and frazzled, and Todd is extremely handsome.
And that's mostly a pity-like.Overall, a very dark read, sometimes hard to get through, always interesting.
Perrota definitely likes to incorporate sexuality into his writing and Little Children is no exception.
He alternates between characters, their overlapping stories intersecting, their alternate views offering a glimpse into varying perspectives.
The book begins slowly, reeling the reader in bit by bit, rationed pieces of information dropped like a frustrated parent dispensing M & M's in an attempt to lure the reluctant toddler out of the toy store.
Perrota knows just when to end a section leaving the reader in suspense as he switches to someone else's view.
At times I was tempted to skip ahead in order to satisfy my curiosity regarding a particular character.
Perrotta uses his usual awkward grace in developing awkward characters, and created a novel more complete and thoughtful than any of his previous ones.
He still has some of the same problems as in his earlier novels (the random addition of a secondary or tertiary character's perspective for just one brief segment, for convenience in the plot, is as annoying here as it is in Election), but I felt like was making a story more than the sum of its parts.
A quick and enjoyable read, with lots to say about what marriage and love and child-rearing really mean.
What they really mean, according to Perotta, is a lot of unfulfilled fantasies, disappointments, and a touch of real enjoyment.
Since I generally view life in this sort of semi-cynical way, I found a lot to identify with in this book.
Another aspect of the book that I liked was the way Perotta dealt with the arrival of a convicted sex offender in the sleepy suburban neighborhood he paints so convincingly.
I don't usually read a book after seeing the movie, but there were a few memorable lines in the movie that I was hoping originated in the book.
An interesting story about the choices you make in your daily life, combating the terror of normality that hits once you have become an adult, and the consequences of both."What was adult life but one moment of weakness piled on top of another?
Most people just fell in line like obedient little children, doing exactly what society expected of them at any given moment, all the while pretending that they'd actually made some sort of choice."
This is an author I have really enjoyed reading. This book was very good and different. It is just a story about a group of neighbors and how their lives intersect. So it may seem like a simple story but there is a lot going on in the background to bring the people together by the end of the book. Really good read, really quick read. I plan to watch the movie soon as I want to see the characters come to life.
A lot of people find it hard to remember the first good movie that they ever saw.
Everything was a little bit cheesy in the start giving you the feel-good movie feeling.
Why did it take me so long to read the novel?I just wanted time to try forget the movie –like it's going to happen!- or maybe just wait for its effect to fade.
I'm really disappointed by the novel – in a good way- its ending is even more careless and disappointing than the movie – just like real life.
