https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8949352-night-road
That being said, after reading The Nightingaleearlier this year, I fell in love with her beautiful, powerful, evocative writing style and ever since then, I’ve been meaning to read more of her books.Today, I was in the mood for two things: deep feels and beautiful writing but was open to any kind of storyline so I decided to try  Night Road  because even just reading the blurb made my heart ache and let me tell you….
This is definitely a book I will be recommending to friends for a long time.
One day at school Mia meets a girl named Lexi when she discovers her reading a book she likes.
Lexi was one of the most wonderfully written characters I have ever read about.
This is my first book of Hannah's, and I will definitely be checking out more of her books!I really think this is a book that can be enjoyed by teens and adults alike, but I do feel us moms can truly appreciate it the most.
(One would think that after you lost one child you would keep the other in front of your eyes and shower them with lots of love, she didn't instead she wallowed in her own pain and didn't care for Miles pain, he lost his daughter too, Zach lost his sister too but he is holding it together).Lexi lost her best friend, she has to carry the burden of being the driver, that girl had enough grief in life and she was blamed for her death.
Don't worry, readers, we characters don't know you're there -- we just feel this compelling need to recount our everyday behaviors in this spontaneous discussion.And then there's Lexie, the teenage foster child who's been traumatized repeatedly and just wants someone to love her.
But lovable Lexie wouldn't do anything like that, because the reader is meant to have her heartstrings pulled and Lexie's acting difficult might add unwanted complexity.
God. I suppose it's not Kristin Hannah's fault that the audiobook reader decided to read all of Mia's lines in a squeaky, ditzy, Minnie Mouse voice but it just emphasized Mia's over-the-top neediness and insecurity.
But Hannah piles on layers of irritating detail: endless descriptions of How the Privileged Live and How the Poor Live (in rusty trailers--and they work at Wal-Mart).
Teenage sex as inevitable.Quite obviously, the person readers are supposed to relate to, to feel sorry for, is Jude, the ever-hovering Helicopter Mom. But nobody in this story feels real, with the possible exception of poor Lexi, who gets punished, big-time, for trying to hang out with the advantaged kids.
No. Not the reader, who's been jerked around enough.The worst part of the book (the place where I start skimming) is when a friend visits Jude after a horrible funeral, wearing Juicy Couture sweats.
WOOOW wow wow. I did not expect to love this as much as I did. Or become as addicted. The story was pretty predictable but so good. And so sad. It made me cry, it made me smile, it did so many things in between. I really loved the characters and loved seeing their growth and change and heartbreak and AH it was just so good y'all.
She's blond, beautiful and rich with an extremely handsome and popular twin brother, and she has enough acting chops to get into USC, but she's so fragile.
So too, the other characters are extremely exagerrated versions of good and evil.
Too much of the first half of the book is just very repetitive character portrayals of fragile Mia, strong Lexi, and handsome Zach.
The second half of the story, from the accident and forward, it moves on, but by then it's built on unbelievable characters, so it lacks the ability to evoke pathos from the reader.
Higher than a 5 from me. I couldn't put this down. Night road made me feel, think, ask myself questions and want to talk about it. Unforgettable and one I will think of often.
Plus, I really wanted to kill the mother.
Saying that, I will be the one who will be a miserable wreck sending my youngest off to college next September.It was sort of obvious what was going to happen ...
Even so, throughout most of the book, I did not like Jude at all.
It is a book that you really cannot say too much about.
I really did not want spoilers.
In the end, I still could not really warm to Jude.
or even a balloon!It was quite an emotional read.
I had to explain that my book was a little emotional.
It starts with the story of Lexi Baill who is a perpetual foster child who has finally found her 'forever home' with an elderly aunt.
This was a rare 5-star book for me.
It also really made me think (and become somewhat terrified) of my kids growing up and all the challenges that come with parenting teenagers.
When you have little ones you always think 'This will be easier when they have a life of their own'.
But, this was a stark reminder that it never really gets easier when you have the unconditional love that a parent provides.
This book invoked tears, and that is something I very rarely find.
I felt like both Jude, Lexi, Zach and Mia were all at fault one way or another here, but the poor girl with the dark background is the one that gets the short end of the stick.Lexi is unable to take what she had done and ends up pleading guilty and going to prison as MADD was already trying to make an example out of her and Jude had decided to press charges for Vehicular homicide.I was discussing it with my husband and he asked me, so what is it you don’t like about this book, the fact that it’s realistic?
I found the first quarter of this story to be slow and I had a difficult time relating to The Farraday's as a family, really.Lexi, however, did have my full attention from the beginning, she felt real to me, her circumstances more than possible.
Overall though, I found the characters to be shallow, contrived somehow, and I never quite made the connection with anyone, as a reader, save Lexi.
In the end I enjoyed the read and the journey this family took, each in their own way.
Everything blows up about 1/3 of the way through the book, when Lexi and Zach finally admit their feelings for one another and tragedy strikes everyone concerned.
The remainder of the book deals with the fallout and how the characters - primarily Lexi, Zach, and Jude, deal with the consequences.I am really conflicted about this book.
On the one hand, I really connected with Lexi and, to a lesser extent, Mia; that connection is what kept me reading the book right up to the end.
On the other hand, the book is full of problems and flaws that kept making me want to (metaphorically) throw it against a wall.
we jump ahead from 2000 to three years later (right in an odd place too, Hannah snaps forward right before we’re about to read Jude, Mia and Lexi start bonding on a girl’s outing).
When Lexi’s Aunt Eva contemplates dipping into her life-savings to help Lexi go to a four-year school, I officially wanted to smack every Farraday character over the head, repeatedly.Now, a huge let-down of this book is the supposed soul-mate romance of Zach and Lexi – which is meant to cover all manner of ills and explain a lot, later in the story.
Night Road is the first book I have read by author Kristin Hannah.
After one incident of poor judgment, the lives of all the characters involved are changed forever.
The grief shared by the characters is profound and has such an impact on the way they move forward with their lives.
I loved this book and I just don't know where to start as I begin to praise the amount of talent gifted to Kristin Hannah.
I honestly didn't expect it to end the way it did.
If you enjoy painfully-real contemporary fiction themed with life, loss, and how one choice can change your life, then read Night Road!
I am quickly becoming a huge Kristin Hannah fan. This is the second book of hers that I've read and absolutely loved. The story gripped me from start to finish. I couldn’t put it down or stop thinking about it when I wasn’t reading.
Lexi has lived her life in and out of foster homes based on the ability of her drug addict mother to properly care for her between prison sentences and stints in rehab facilities.
The story is told in alternating perspectives between Lexi and Mia's mother, Jude.
The majority of the book I did find myself wanting to hear more of Lexi's view, but the story would not have been nearly the same without an intimate look at Jude's thoughts and feelings.(view spoiler)[After the death of Mia, Jude basically shut down.
Having now read it I have to say you cannot read Night Road and not be emotionally affected by the story and the characters.This is a novel which is without doubt a page turner and by the first 50 pages I was totally drawn in by the story and the characters and I was interest and connected to the story.Being a mother I could certainly identify with the worries a parent has when a child enters teenage years and the difficulties that comes with parenting.
I listened to this on audio and once again I have to say that I think that my experience of the book was enhanced because of this.
The narrator (Kathleen McInerney) was brilliant, and I never felt like like I was listening to someone reading the story.
Although the story has quite a few cliches and at times felt a bit teenagey for me, I felt for all the characters, especially Jude.
I normally only listen to audio books while driving, but I could not put this down, so even listened to it in my normal reading time.
I loved this book.
Could not put it down until I was finished, then cried because I was finished.It is one of my all time favorite books by Kristin Hannah and in general.
After reading I shared a few parts of the book with my daughter.
She was intrigued and ended up reading and loving the book too.
I went through so many emotions reading this book.
I bought it shortly after it came out and was so excited to read it.
A stunning tale of love, friendship, loss and forgiveness.So well written and many readers will be able to relate to the story.
(page 2) Night Road is commercial fiction, and while literary is my first love, commercial is my guilty pleasure.
Plot-wise ~ I always enjoy books that follow characters through their lives a little and this one spans from early teens to mid-twenties.
Kristin Hannah really puts her characters through the wringer...Which is why I managed to get the unputdownable sucked in feeling half way through.I found the book incredibly easy to sink into and once the Main Event occurs (just past a third of the way in) I was completely addicted and utterly engrossed.
Enjoyed this! I did take a while for me to get really hooked and not want to put it down. The story was heartbreaking and complicated. My heart aches for all of the characters. I like the way it ended and felt all sorts of emotions throughout. Good read!
This was a beautiful and heartbreaking story.
When I got to work, I sat in the car for ten minutes listening and did the same when I returned home.
At home, I couldn’t stop thinking about it, so I got the audiobook out of my car and listened to it on my laptop.
It’s that good.
This is another novel where Kristin Hannah shines.
In many ways, it’s so realistic with the underage drinking, struggling to fit in, and the differences in socioeconomic levels between the characters.
If you’ve enjoyed some of Kristin Hannah’s other novels, this is a must read for you.
Exceptional!I didn't know if I could make it through this book! Kristin Hannah broke my heart, glued it back together and tied it up in a pretty little bow!
In the past five years Lexi has been in and out of seven different foster homes and been to six different schools in the same amount of time.Then Lexi's aunt Eva turns up and and she goes and lives with her.
Aunt Eva does all she can for Lexi making sure she is looked after and cared for.
On her first day of school she meets a girl named Mia who at lunch time is sitting under a tree on her own reading a book.
I won a set of these books for my book club so I read it.
I have children who were in high school more or less at the same time the story took place, we live in Washington where the story is set, and the book jacket makes the story line sound interesting, so I start with the idea that the story will resonate with me.I did read the whole book, every word of it.
This book is akin to an after-school TV special: I could almost hear the music swelling as the drama rose.I didn’t care about the characters; they were stereotypical and not very interesting.
This was my first book by Hannah but on my goodness it will NOT be my last I loved it. In fact I am heading to the book store to by ALL of the books they have by her. I devoured this book in one evening. I still am thinking about it a day later. I am in a book fog.
Me lo he bebido. lo empecé anoche y ya está acabado. Me chiflan las historias de esta autora, de verdad, me encanta la forma en la que toma el control de las emociones del lector y como sus historias que podrían ser tachadas de un drama dramático hiper realista son una maravilla que a mí me atrapan y me hacen pasar por todos los estados emocionas. Totally fan ^^
On that fateful day, she catches the eye of Zach Farraday, the future prom king, and befriends his opposite in social stature, his twin sister, Mia Farraday, a social outcast.
Fanaticism is bad no matter from what quarter it hails.Foster children are bounced around and never feel safe or loved or wanted.
Twins feel the presence of each other in their minds and emotions.
All the stereotypes of liberal moms, who want to make sure their children have everything while at the same time they hover over them and never let them grow up, are trotted out.
Kristin Hannah wrote a book with potential.
Hannah fails to make you *love* the characters and she rushed the book along at a pace, while enticing and page turning, leaves much, much, much to be desired.
So, eventually when you do reach the major turning points for these characters, you're not as emotionally involved and devastated and relieved as you could have been had more focus been given to the "sizzle".
Huge chunks of this story are missing, and it is in those chunks that your connection, as the reader, to the book would have been built.
