https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/336414.Thunder_on_the_Right
But Doña Francesca (boo!hiss) clearly has a sinister agenda, and there are reasons to think that the woman who died at the convent was not Gillian ...Re-reading this after 20 years or more, I reluctantly have to say that the years haven't treated this Mary Stewart book as kindly as most of her other romantic suspense novels.
Stewart shows a lamentable tendency to overuse ellipses in this book, which reminds me way too much of Barbara Cartland's breathless heroines.If you're a Mary Stewart completist or an avid fan of old-time Gothic-type romantic suspense novels with fainting heroines, you may enjoy this, but if you're new to Stewart's books, do yourself a big favor and don't start with TotR.
In my quest to revisit all of Mary Stewart’s wonderful romance-mysteries, I have been delighted to find that my memory and reality are much the same.
I am unsure if I can put a finger on what it is about Stewart that always delights me, but it is here in spades.
Fearless heroines, handsome men waiting just in the wings at the appropriate moment, a bit of kissing on the sly, confusion and bouts of clarity, and images of handsome young men flying down mountain passes on blazing stallions.
Mix that with Stewart’s considerable descriptive talents and you have a bit of magic.
I read somewhere that Mary Stewart felt that this was the weakest of her novels, and I must agree (although Airs Above the Ground comes in a close second).Thunder on the Right starts off strong, but peters out mid-way and never regains traction.
While the plot is intriguing: a missing (presumed dead) cousin, and art theft brokered through a French abbey in the Pyrenees, neither storyline is fleshed out to gain full impact.
Likewise with the characters.
Stephen Masefield is one of the most lackluster Stewart heros I've ever read, and Jennifer Silver, the damsel-in-distress, lacks the spunk and intrepid spirit of a typical Stewart heroine.A disappointing offering from the Dame of romantic suspense.
Tension is built marvellously within Thunder on the Right, and I really enjoyed the fact that it had a mystery at its heart. It did remind me of Daphne du Maurier at points, and I found myself greatly admiring elements of the plot, as well as Stewart's descriptions. Enjoyable and well paced; parts of it were perhaps a touch melodramatic, but it certainly gives a memorable story to its readers.
My mother used to love them, and I can remember her bringing them home from the library back in the days when I was still borrowing from the junior shelves.Now that I have read Thunder on the Right I can understand why all those books came home.I met Jennifer, the twenty-two year old daughter of a distinguised Oxford Professor, at a hotel high in the Pyrenees.
She had come to visit Gillian, her widowed cousin, who had written to her, quite unexpectedly, from a nearby convent.Jennifer was unsettled when she met Stephen, a man she had known back in Oxford.

This is one of Stewart's novels (along with Thornyhold, Nine Coaches Waiting) I like best.
It features a nicely paced plot and vivid antagonists, especially Dona Francisca.
The lack of background on Gillian leaves me feeling a little empty at the end, which is abrupt and does not feature her at all.Stephen has a nice development from a claimed non-hero to one who very much fits the part.
He is a little condescending at times, but tender and gentle to Jenny, responding instantly to her needs and danger.
This suspense novel is up there with my favorite Mary Stewart books--Thornyhold, Rose Cottage, Nine Coaches Waiting, This Rough Magic, and  Madam, Will You Talk?
(Stewart wrote many books, so this "top six" list is somewhat selective.) Set in the Pyrenees on the French border with Spain, Thunder on the Right includes a missing (maybe dead?) woman, a mysterious convent populated by secretive characters (the nuns are okay, it's the other people who seem to be hiding something), a long-lost love who may or may not live up to the heroine's expectations, and a heart-stopping climax with lots of twists and turns--all set in the Valley of Storms, where the weather reflects the goings-on.
Even the protagonist questions the melodrama of it all, but that adds to the book's charm as Stewart once again proves herself a mistress of this genre.
Buddy read with the Mary Stewart group.3.5 stars rounded up to 4.I won't recap the story as the book description does a good job of that.For the most part I enjoyed this book, although I found some of the descriptions overly wordy.
The weather and it's description played a big role and I enjoyed how it paralleled the story.
It was originally a stew made up of whatever was on hand.
Not my favourite of Mary Stewart's novels -- I seem to recall reading this was an early one, which might explain why the balance of melodrama felt off, though I loved the self-conscious references to Radcliffe.
The whole mystery relied on lots of coincidences and stretches of disbelief, but it was still fun, and I appreciated that the male protagonist had a disability.The romance gets wrapped up quite quickly -- it's a foregone conclusion from the start, really -- so that source of tension doesn't hold up, and the mystery itself is way obvious.
Still, Mary Stewart was already good at painting word-pictures of the scenes she was setting, and it's fun.
If I didn't know any better, I would have guessed that this was Stewart's first book.
There are a lot of elements that she would refine to a much higher level in her later books, just not executed nearly so well.
The convent setting is intriguing, but the characters aren't too well-developed; and there's a touch more melodrama, too—in other books Stewart would do a much better job at making it seem believable that her protagonists are up to the challenge of the experiences they go through.
If I stayed up late to finish this one, I'm afraid it wasn't because I couldn't put it down but more because if I did put it down I was not sure I'd be bothered to pick it up again.It started well enough, at an isolated convent in the Pyrenees, with a search for a missing girl and a vision of a beautiful young man on horseback.
And Doňa Francisca, the shady, possibly lesbian, bursar seems a very promising villain.
But somehow it all falls apart.Part of the trouble was Jenny, the heroine, whose simple innocence sits quite oddly on a woman in her early 20s who has attended a Swiss finishing school and university.
I just started this two days ago, and i can hardly put it down! I love Mary Stewart! Ok, now I'm done. I could not put this one down. This has more suspense and action than all the others, and a tiny bit more romance (like one more kiss which equals about two or three total) Anyway, like the others it reminds me of a great old movie with terrific heroines and terribly bad guys and a great plot. It's very damsel in distress, which i dig.
I can see that Mary Stewart was a good writer.
She wrote good mystery/gothic books, with a suspense.
The plot is engaging, although I think a little predictable, at least I knew before Jennifer what would happen (and what had happened earlier).
I think that a fan of the genre likes her novel very much.
But I am not this fan.
So after this second book of Stewart I am not going to read the third.I regret that Stewart didn't write more typical romance (where is more of romance).
Mary Stewart is a master of suspense and beautiful prose, however this is not her best effort. The basic mystery/gothic suspense plotting is enjoyable, but it is overwrought and the descriptive passages are bit overwritten in places. Also, Stewart's use of the third-person narrative (as opposed to her usual first-person) didn't allow me to get quite as swept up in the adventure as I usually do.
I love Mary Stewart but not Thunder on the Right. I didn’t care for the heroine nor the hero and the story didn’t pull me in. If you’re new to Mary Stewart, don’t start with this one. Try one of her more stellar books such as This Rough Magic, Airs Above the Ground, Madam, Will You Talk?, or Nine Coaches Waiting.
This was so much fun to read!
Thunder on the Right - Omen of a happy ending!
I've never actually heard that thunder on the right was lucky, but I'll take the author's word for it.
Be prepared for some fangirling here.
I just love getting lost in a Mary Stewart novel.
I loved the gothic tone!
The vivid landscapes, so typical of Mary Stewart, did not disappoint.
An intriguing mystery lurking behind the whitewashed walls of a convent provided action and suspense that kept me glued to this book right up to the end.

I love Mary Stewart and I will reread this one again some day, but it's not one of my favorites. It probably didn't seem stilted and pretentious when it was published in 1957. She wrote this one in third person, which also put me off a bit because she bounced around the POV, especially at the beginning. But it's good and there are portions of this novel, like so many other of her novels, that are excellent. As I writer, I need to keep reading and studying her work.
This one had a bit too much melodrama for me to love it, but it was thoroughly readable. I've been purchasing these books on Kindle, and for $.99 - $3.99 each, they are so worth it.
Conveyance of feeling, such as textbook gothic dread, is edgier and more unique than by any author I've known before.I seem to have a knack for noticing an overused word and Mary surely could have selected synonyms in place of 'steady' occurring a hundred times in this novel.
Most importantly, cunning attention went into the development of this story and plot.
The frenzy with which multiple threads race together is stunning.'Jennifer' and 'Stephen' were university friends in England, whose dating didn't get off the ground before he enlisted in a war.
'Jennifer' is told her cousin died but evidence arises that contradicts the news.
Jennifer certainly faints a number of times in this book, and she isn't the only one.
One could get the distinct impression, from the 1st 3 books by this author, that British women were going about fainting at the drop of a hat.
Much less smoking in this one though, but Jennifer is younger than the previous two heroines, so maybe she just hadn't gotten into the habit quite as much.While the heroine is quite naive and protected and, indeed, a bit wimpy, the context and awareness is actually a part of the character development, which makes it slightly less annoying than it could have been.
I was pretty disappointed with this novel as I had read one by the same author previously and loved it but this one was no where near as good, the plot wasn't as interesting, the romance not as beautiful and I did not feel like I could connect to the characters in any way.
I took me ages to read as I couldn't bring myself to, it was so boring at the start, it got better as progressed but I still hardly enjoyed it.Something new I learnt from this book was: what being colour blind is and the 2 different types: the rare yellow-blue and more common red-green.A character that I found interesting in this book was Dona Francesca as she is an evil nun which the opposite of what a nun should be.
Sometime in high school, I discovered Mary Stewart.
I read everything she wrote and waited impatiently for her next novel.
I read everything she ever published, including her children's books.
On Thursday, October 12, 2017, I discovered that all of her Gothics were on sale for Kindle and in a rash moment, purchased them all.
Much of the reason I love it is not only due to a complex plot and well-developed characters, but because even her minor characters have a few details that make them memorable.
Another reason is the gorgeous way she writes.
Apparently even Mary Stewart didn't think this was her best book (I read somewhere, maybe here on Goodreads), but I would go a bit further than that!
Despite lots of densely descriptive passages, pages of them at times, the plot is so thin and weak and full of ridiculous coincidences and "lucky" sightings, realizations and stumble-upons, that the more literary passages look frankly absurd and out of place.I leafed through the final chapters, just to find out whether the ending was as feeble as the rest of the story, and it was.Sorry Mary Stewart - I loved you once but don't think I will be reading any more of your books.
This novel is the least favorite of the Stewart novels I’ve read.
The plot is pretty feeble and the evil characters are comically drawn.
There is too much melodrama and not enough backstory to make it as interesting as the others I’ve read.
And there is zero character development.
Other reviews I’ve read online concede that this is perhaps Stewart’s weakest novel.That being said, I gobbled it up and did not want to stop.
It is probably best to read it when you are already addicted to her and can’t be discouraged from thinking she’s wonderful.
Even for Mary Stewart this novel has a preposterous plot, which includes mysterious goings on at the convent of Our Lady of the Storms, a hidden El Greco tryptich, murder, mistaken identity and even an avalanche.
Jennifer proceeds to stir up a veritable hornets nest in a small French town on the Spanish border and confuse everyone including the reader with her foolhardy antics.
I generally like Mary Stewarts tales in a cosy Sunday afternoon get away from it all way but this one is literally a bridge too far and I began to find it very irritating towards the end
Hmmmm.
I loved Mary Stewart as a teen...
couldn't get enough of her books.
I am genuinely surprised at how dumb "Thunder on the Right" was!
Were all her books this bad, and I just didn't have good taste back then??
I mean, this book really, really sucked.
It's one of the most idiotic things I've ever read.
It was like Stewart was making a desperate attempt to channel Ann Radcliffe, but she failed miserably.
I'm not quite sure why I bothered finishing it.
I'm worried now because I've been wanting to re-read the Crystal Cave series...
This story, about a young woman who gets tragic news after going to visit her cousin at a remote convent, was my first experience with Mary Stewart. I liked the book's vintage feel, but wasn't crazy about much else.The mystery was coincidence-heavy, the heroine didn't stand out much, and the whole thing was padded with long, tedious descriptions. Since the author comes highly recommended and many reviewers seem to think this isn't her best work, I'll try something else by Stewart soon.
I suppose no-one but a peasant would ever exert herself to the point of sweating.--As I haven't read all of Stewart's novels, maybe it's premature to make this kind of observation-- but isn't is a bit silly and boring that almost all of her traveling heroines go off to these exotic, romantic foreign countries, only to(view spoiler)[ fall promptly in love with the only Englishman around for miles?
When the hero and heroine (view spoiler)[already have a history, before we (the readers) get to know them.
