https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33933.The_Panda_s_Thumb
Having recently settled in Australia I found the information on Marsupials in South America highly interesting.
The content is really good and he has a great sum up near the end about a lot of "points" other science writers have made that really comes through with some fervor about the way that bats and bees see and what the world is to us.
The sexual and racial issues surrounding Evolution in scientific history is a subject I detest but he still was able to keep me interested during that portion as well.
Its not a book I would re read but it was a good once over.
The thought most running across my mind when I was reading this book was: "Where can I get more Stephen Jay Gould books?!"Since it is a collection of essays, I don't really want to review any of them personally.
Sure, some of the science here is 30 years old (Gould was always sharp on the uptake though), some of it is out of favour (say Gould's ideas on the gene-centric view of evolution), but you'll still enjoy reading every bit of it.
The Panda's Thumb made for an excellent book to pick up, regardless of what I was doing or what my mood was and immediately get lost in whatever world Stephen Jay Gould transported you to.
El estilo periodístico, no académico, hace mucho en su favor, pero el hecho de que sea una colección de artículos de columnas que publicaba desde los años 70 no perjudica a la cohesión del libro.
Además, vemos en sus páginas un reconocimiento cultural amplio de su público, tanto el que siente curiosidad por la evolución de Mickey Mouse, como el que va a apreciar referencias a Toscanini, lo que hace que sientas mucho más cercana la voz que habla.Sin embargo, la amenidad de la divulgación no me parece el mayor valor de "El pulgar del panda", sino la enorme conciencia social que demuestra Gould.
This wonderful book is a collection of 31 short articles that appeared in the magazine "Natural History" in the late 1970's ('77-'79)...each 'chapter' is an independent read (for the most part) that, if you are a patient pooper, can be finished in a single seating.
Gould is a great writer with full command of natural history and a knack in making a difficult subject both informative and entertaining.The only reason that I 'dinged' the rating is that some of the articles...those involving paleontology and general geology...are very much dated and out of step with the current thinking of earth's history.
Con una prosa estremamente brillante Gould ci accompagna attraverso i grandi temi dell'evoluzione e ci dimostra come la natura, secondo le parole del biologo Francois Jacob, "non è un divino artefice ma un eccellente bricoleur". Dal pollice del panda appunto, ai dinosauri, e passando anche attraverso le evoluzioni fumettistiche di Topolino, Gould ci spiega in modo chiaro e coinvolgente perché sono le più curiose imperfezioni della natura a fornire la prova del carattere casuale dell’evoluzione. Una lettura appassionante anche per chi come me non è affatto un esperto in biologia o paleontologia.
I wonder at times if I am reading a time capsule of a particular mode of thought, or the dawn of the accepted way of thinking.Things I thought were interesting:1) The terms Idiot, Moron, and Mongoloid once had Scientific Relevance.
Gould had to write an essay advocating the use of Downs' Syndrome over the still accepted Mongoloid Idiot.2) The idea that Birds should be reclassified under a Family of Dinosaurs captures my imagination.
Since it's been forty years, I wonder where that ended up.3) Finally, the way Gould captures the impact of size as an environment for adaptation breaks up most of the science fiction tropes of big vs.
He and a colleague, whose name I forget, re-purposed Kipling's term "just-so stories" to describe evolutionarily plausible but unprovable explanations for things.
An amazing critical thinker, Gould realized that if you didn't establish some way of critiquing evolutionary explanations, they would become the equivalent of folk explanations, overpredicting to the point that they could never be disproven.
Once evolutionary explanations became non-disprovable, it stops being a science and starts being a belief, like believing in god.
Most of my understanding of the neo-Darwinian synthesis comes from reading Gould.
"An early collection of Stephen Jay Gould's essays from his column in Natural History magazine, The Panda's Thumb was an enjoyable read, assuming you like natural history. It's the third of Gould's collections I've read, and the earliest I've read as well, but it held up well over time. Composed in the late '70s -- '78 and '79, I believe -- the essays in The Panda's Thumb bear the mark of Gould's charming, articulate style ..."Read the rest of my review at [http://www.sabrinaspiher.com/forums/v...]
This is the book you want to have just read when you are faced with having to argue with an idiot. Unfortunately, you can never win an argument with an idiot, but at least there is a chapter describing the differences between idiot, moron, and imbecile. When it comes time to explain to your argument-partner what all that fuss regarding Darwin was all about, the topics in this book will handily give you something to knowingly speak about.
This book, read as prep for AP biology before my senior year in high school, brought me into the world of biology in high school, and inspired me to major in biology in college. It also inspired me to read more nonfiction, particularly science nonfiction. It's been one of my favorite types of writing ever since. Steven Gould is amazing at bringing technical concepts into layman's terms.
I'll read anything & everything I can find that Stephen Jay Gould wrote.
This man's wit and intelligence and his interest in everything were much to be admired.
The Panda's Thumb is an overall interesting book dealing with the curiosities of evolution through a compendium of articles written by Gould mostly in the 70s for Nature magazine.
I think the book is a fairly readable popular natural sciences book, although the fragmentation that comes from it being an anthology of articles does make it seem aimless at times.
I think the genre has advanced in terms of content and readability by leaps and bounds in the last two decades and while Gould is still a good read, I do believe there are lots of equally good books available which have a bit more structure than the Panda's Thumb.
La prima parte del libro mi è piaciuta molto. E quella che riguarda più specificatamente l'evoluzione. La parte che racconta specifiche storie relative a particolari specie mi ha interessato poco.Molto chiara la parte dell'evoluzione, contiene anche note sul dibattito tra Gould e Dawkins, che ha influenzato la storia delle teorie evoluzionistiche degli ultimi quarant'anni, e ancora continua (anche se Gould non c'è più). I saggi sono stati scritti nel '78 e '79 e in alcuni si vedono le rughe, ma la testimonianza intellettuale è di primissimo livello.
Uno de los mejores libros de Jay Gould , en este libro arremete contra Dawkins y su famoso libro el gen egoísta , describe grandes errores de la ciencia como el Hombre de Piltdown o explica el retraso mínimo de la velocidad de traslación de la tierra , entre otros relatos sobre evolución , muy ameno y entretenido
Lucid, welcoming, erudite, and eminently readable. Gould had a genius for conveying biological and geological concepts in crystal English prose, always making sure to bring his reader along with him on his Darwinian journeys.
Each chapter was about a different interesting subject, but I'm afraid it was a bit dense for me, and I tended to go off into auto-pilot whilst I was reading it. But I blame me, not the author, because his style was chatty enough.
Some very interesting essays and some not so interesting. All in all, still worth the read though.
It is well-written and easy enough to follow that science teachers might be able to select single essays to demonstrate points to students, and Gould is amusing enough that students would find him readable.I’m a pretty good audience for this sort of book, because I don’t know that much about the specialized area Gould works in, but I’m smart enough to keep up with him and nerdy enough to be entertained by stories about science.
I was especially interested in some of his historical essays, especially those that demonstrate that discarded theories were not results of irrationality or bad procedure on the part of their originators, but rather changes in overall paradigm.
Written as a series of vignettes about various topics, each was an entertaining and enlightening read, although I'm not sure if I'm any better off in terms of my knowledge about how evolution works.
The opening essay concerns the Panda's Thumb, and Gould suggests that in evolution, exceptions rather than norms often prove the rule.
Since Gould was overt in separating the domains of science and religion as mutually exclusive (as I found out recently when reading Sam Harris), the weaving of the Arts, including religious arts infuses his writing, adding to the readability, but offering little in terms of the 'debate' between the two.
The second collection of Gould’s articles from Natural History continues to explore Charles Darwin’s themes and the resultant ideas since.
There’s several interesting essays here, including my favorite one in which the evolution of Mickey Mouse is discussed.One of the essays here dealt with Richard Dawkins’ controversial stand (in The Selfish Gene) on genes in which he states that a person is just a gene’s way to make another gene.
(This is different from normal evolutionary thought in that genes there are the subject of random variation which then is subject to the environment and tested.) Gould is not convinced by Dawkins’ theory, mainly because, he says, there is no evidence that genes can be linked to specific attributes, i.e., there isn’t an “eye” gene.
Racist views of men like Dr. John Down, of Down's syndrome fame who coined the phrase Mongolism, in 19th century that were fitted with "scientific" evidence are astounding parts of science history that we might have been too ready to forget.
It can't be for the general public since that language alone would be daunting for anyone without a strong background in biology.A series of interesting essays which might be discussed in a one credit college class along with some other books important to the history of biology.It is obvious the author is well educated and that he loves and is knowledgeable about music.
After reading the last few chapters I wonder if that is so.
One student eventually did say that I had convinced him plants had evolved, but not animals and certainly not humans.
1) ''And thus we may pass from the underlying genetic continuity of change---an essential Darwinian postulate---to a potentially episodic alteration in its manifest result---a sequence of complex, adult organisms.
Within complex systems, smoothness of input can translate into episodic change in output.
I am, somehow, less interested in the weight and convolutions of Einstein's brain than in the near certainty that people of equal talent have lived and died in cotton fields and sweatshops.''3) ''I am, as several other essays emphasize, an advocate of the position that science is not an objective, truth-directed machine, but a quintessentially human activity, affected by passions, hopes, and cultural biases.
Once more readers are treated to elegantly written, insightful pieces on issues ranging from racial attitudes affecting 19th Century science to evolutionary dilemnas such as the origins of the Panda's thumb (Not really a dilemna, though "scientific" creationists might argue otherwise; instead Gould offers an elegant description of how evolution via natural selection works.) and the evolutionary consequences of variations in size and shape among organisms.
Gould is differential to the work of other scientists, carefully considers views contrary to his own, and even points the virtues of the faulty science he criticizes.
Those who say contemporary science is dogmatic should reconsider that view after carefully reading this volume or any of the others in Gould's series.
In the ensuing remainder of the book, only the second collection of his long-running column in Natural History journal, he defies this modest claim by writing on a wide variety of scientific subjects, using an even wider variety of cultural reference points.
The Panda's Thumb even has a theme, of sorts, described by Gould as a 'club sandwich' of topics on biology and history.
A less explicit theme of the book is error and imperfection and their role in science, not just as an unavoidable side-effect of human enterprise but also as its essential driving force.
a conglomeration of Gould’s articles and essays about various scientific troubles, anomalies, and paradigm shift resistance specifically aimed at creationist and other anti-science movements, if one can call such things movements.
it holds up remarkably well since its publication over 30 years ago.from Haekel’s insistence on evolutionary recapitulation and Kirkpatrick's insistence that all rocks were made of fossils to Agassiz’s overt racism to the fall of gradualism and dinosaurs’ coldblooded nature, this book is a great panorama of the history of science.
but that’s what science is all about, i think.
I love Stephen Jay Gould.
I'd probably love him more if he hadn't died so early.
He takes complicated subject matter and writes about it in such a way that it seems like the simplest thing you've ever read.
This book is a collection of essays about natural history, just like most of his books are.
This is the first collection of his essays that I've read (I've only read two other books of his, which is absolutely shocking!).There's not really much you can say about his work - it's easiest just to say: read it yourself.
Interesting, and Gould writes well, but flawed.When he talks about Dawkins and the Selfish gene, he 
What a delightful little book of science essays!
Each essay is an edited version of his monthly columns at Natural History magazine.
Subsequently, the essays are intelligible to the general intelligent reader, but Gould does not thereby sacrifice an appreciation for hard facts and subtle reasoning.
Gould makes science come alive with his anecdotes, wry humor, and gentle argumentation about topics ranging from the Panda's thumb to hopeful monsters and everything in between.
Nothing is too big or small for Gould to think worthy of an essay.
All in all, I highly recommend this book for any student of biology or lover of science.
