https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/875808.The_Temple_Tiger_and_More_Man_Eaters_of_Kumaon
This book was very, very entertaining!Corbett, unlike what you'd expect from a big-game hunter (even one known for his conservation efforts), doesn't write out gruesome details, just facts, and he approaches his subject with both compassion and a matter-of-fact attitude that makes what would be upsetting and revolting to witness not so disturbing at all.
He accomplishes the nigh-impossible task of maintaining the suspense of the chase and danger while reassuring you and keeping you calm.The best part was probably his attitude toward the animals he killed.
Still, he is compassionate, and tries his best to make the kill as painless for the animal as possible.Corbett is also enjoyable because he doesn't sing his own praises, nor does he adopt an irritating false modesty.
More than just a thrilling book, this is a surprisingly humane and sensitive selection of stories for which it would be hard to find an equivalent. Corbett could understand the animal "languages" of the Indian forest and used this to help himself hunt down and kill the world's worst man-eating tigers, alone! Somehow he succeeds, and goes on to become a pioneer of conservation, with a Tiger Reserve named after him. Aready a classic.
I cannot be flattered beyond this for a while when reading any true narratives in the near future.The tales of Jim Corbett's outings on hunting the man-eaters in the Himalayas are not just about the Tigers nor the Leopards nor are about the game tracks he walked while hunting the animals in great Himalayan Jungles.
Should you need to go on hunting a man-eater in the Himalayas, pick up a book by Jim Corbett, right away.
The last of Jim Corbett, "The Temple Tiger and More Man-Eaters of Kumaon" accounts some of his unique experiences in Himalayas. The books brings out the hunter-cum-conservationist's acute understanding of the intricacies of jungles and that of the tigers. Every ordeal, day and detail expressed vividly by Corbett is worth a bible for those who would venture into the dense jungles of India. While detailing his encounters with the wild cats, Jim Corbett always laces his words with his love for the human beings, especially those who suffer and are at the mercy of nature.
The last of Jim Corbett’s books about the man-eaters of Kumaon, The Temple Tiger and More Man-Eaters of Kumaon is about four tigers (three of them man-eaters and one which had acquired too strong a liking for cattle) and one man-eating leopard that Corbett was called upon to trail and kill in Kumaon.
If there’s one thing I didn’t like about this book, it was a description of a ‘sporting shoot’ that Corbett led for a crowd of Europeans out in the area.
It has a bearing on the story, since a mishap here resulted in Corbett losing hearing in one ear: but what irked me was the wanton destruction of animal life recounted here.
In the five stories presented in The Temple Tiger, that man was Jim Corbett, British-Indian hunter and tracker-turned-conservationist, author and naturalist.
Corbett’s love of the region and the people who lived there, and his deep respect for all living things, is on display in these pages.
Though he is as wounded and handicapped as the tiger he hunts, yet he perseveres: out of love, out of duty, out of respect and reverence for the life he must take.
A gem in jungle literature....A thoroughly nice read.
This book I feel it's one of the best in jungle literature.
The book although deals with encounters and taking down of man wearing Tigers and leopards, this seems to be of secondary.
Best of the lot are the two, "Temple Tiger" this is the story of an encounter with a Tiger, that was told to be the blessed one by the mother Goddess, and who was no man eater.
The last one, "The Talla Des man eater" is the story of a land tigress that killed humans after being invalidated at early age.
Years ago i read Corbett, and he remains my favorite. Glad to read thru Amazon again.Years ago i read Corbett, and he remains my favorite. Glad to read thru Amazon again. I may read them again.
My favourite from this short story collection was 'Talla Des Man Eater'
Very thrilling and motivated
Must read for wild life enthusiasts!! The author describes the surroundings and happenings and the environment in such a way that makes the reader feel as if he is involved in the situation!!
It describes the book in and out that it leaves practically nothing for the reviewers to write about.
Little bit of add ons in the anecdotes prove his mettle as a writer.He had given and account of the man eaters as well as his hunting experiences without scaring the readers and also without repugnant grotesque explanations of the kills.
The left me surprised as to how the author narrated his hunting experience without spreading an inclination towards violence.Reviewed for the publisherDisclosure of Material Connection: I received this book as a complimentary copy in exchange for a honest review.
This is the second book covered in Omnibus edition.
It's about the game tiger which he did not want to kill but was insisted by a villager which had attacked and killed his cattle.
Many others have also failed in killing it.Rest of the stories were long and bit boring.
In between he had included anecdotes of past experiences which are wonderful to read.Overall it's still a great book to read.
It also covered other exciting perks he gets while looking for man-eating tiger like birding and game hunting as it was legal back then.
Not so long ago, in a land not so far away, where conservation of natural life was a statement unheard by many, a lone hunter will rid many a poor villages of man-eating Tigers.To be fair though, Jim Corbett did eventually realize that killing tigers was a horrible way to go about living.
Thus today we have the Jim Corbet tiger reserve in Uttarakhand, India.
Better late than never.Now the book.The book is more of a journal, a hunting log of sorts.
The writing style is quite archaic, because it's set back during the colonial age, in the British India empire.
I am a huge fan of Jim Corbett as a wildlife-lover convert and a writer both!
As a kid, I grew up to listening to the thrilling bed-time adventure stories of Jim Corbett and his experiences from my Dad who is also a huge fan.
The books are not just an example of intellect and skillful approach to trap the man-eaters in India but a deep insight into how we, humans encroach into the space of wildlife and disturb their space and life.
The detailing, Corbett's love for wildlife, India and everything else is just beautifully crafted in words that keep you engaged!
An account of Corbett's experiences hunting tigers and in one instance a leopard. The man personifies the typical pulp hero – utterly without fear, nonchalantly heroic and replete with amusing foibles, like absolutely craving a smoke and a nice hot cuppa tea even while waiting on a tree branch with rifle in hand in the dead of night for the man-eating tiger to come that way. If these stories hadn't been true, they wouldn't be worth reading, but as it is, I was impressed, to say the least.
I bought this book while travelling in India and Pakistan and read it resting on a charpoy with a fan turning overhead. It still brings back India to me now. There will never be another Jim Corbett and, despite his tendancy to make a great story even better, he should always be remembered for this book as well as the Corbett National Park.
Last of Jim Corbett, The Temple Tiger and More Man-Eaters of Kumaon, is one of his best and the last chapter in the volume in which he gives an account of the killing of the Talla Des Man Eater is the best one. This book is a must read for anyone interested in shikar stories.
Corbett's writings were the first pieces of literature I ever read in my life. This is an amazing compilation and it is a book that would offer different things to everyone. I highly recommend this book to all nature lovers.
Excellent recollections of incredible tiger and leopard hunts combined with beautiful descriptions of nature and wildlife. I also learned that Corbett became deaf in one ear after a hunting accident.
Brilliant as ever. Jim Corbett's works are evergreen favourites.
Jim Corbett is the quintessional English story teller and Shikari...who hunted and lived in India the same time period as my grand father whom my brother said met/knew Jim Corbett.
Vivid descriptions of the encounters with the famous man-eaters in the North India by the Hunter turned conservationist Jim Corbett
Intense
This is a really riveting book. Jim Corbett recounts several man-eating tigers and leopards that he sorted out in the border area between India and Nepal in the early 20th century.
Read Man-Eaters of Kumaon before reading this one.
Wonderful!
A hair raising experience with an elusive tiger and many other stories. I just love the confidence Jim renders while he is narrating.
what else can i do but be a bit more awed by my own nation's forests, and a lot of respect of Sir Corbett
799.27
