https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/49195.My_Life
There is much that is good about the book.
The part of the book about his early life was interesting as well, showing family background and how he got the connections that helped him move up.
I found it annoying that every person he mentions he seems to feel it necessary to burden with the weight of somehow changing his life, or of having had some lasting positive influence on him.
Even though the conservatives lied relentlessly about his personal failings, I find it difficult to believe that Monica was the first.
Make sure you are interested in politics if you're going to read this. Don't just read it for the Lewinsky scandal because it's barely mentioned! Clinton is a brilliant political mind and it shows in this book. I learned a lot about the events of his administration, which was interesting for me as I was only ages 9-17 while he was in office. Gave a good perspective to things (though, admittedly, one sided).
Good thing the men who made it to the Oval Office, whatever their faults and ideological party, have always wanted to make the world a better place, not worse, and have always worked hard to allow a space for people to be the person their pet dogs and children believe them to be, right?The book was fact-checked by the publisher.
I read this book for a class on Bill Clinton's foreign policy (ok, most of the book.
Anyway, due to the class and the fact that I lived through his presidency, I was fully aware of what his foreign policy actually was during his time in office (for a better, and more accurate understanding of his foreign policy read David Halberstam's War in a Time of Peace).
I'm sure Clinton was fully aware of it too, but you'd never get that from reading the book.
Anyway, there have been plenty of other books written about the Clinton Presidency.
In that regard it reads like a summary of a State of the Union address and not a deeply reflective biography.There is a ton of factual information, but it becomes somewhat shallow in tying that information together into a cohesive explanation as to the rationale for actions taken, positions espoused.Nevertheless, regardless of what passions you may hold or not hold with regard to Clinton himself, the book is a reasonably well written work that the committed reader can work their way through it and hopefully come out with a better understanding of the life and times of this important contemporary and soon to be historical figure.
I listened to the whole thing on the drive from my home to seminary (6 hours).That having been said, I am coming to understand that way more of "The West Wing" was based on actual events than I realized.
I feel like I just experienced the entire series - the book even ends with the same word on which the series concluded: "Tomorrow."Not having been politically aware until the 2000 election cycle, I pretty much had no idea what went on during the Clinton years, except for a few BJs. But hearing Bill Clinton (he reads the audiobook) talk about the accomplishments of his two terms was at once inspiring and devastating.
I listened to this abridged audio but I liked it so much, I'm thinking of reading the much longer unabridged book!
Bill Clinton was awesome, despite his brushing over his welfare reform, which was the worst thing he did while in office.
People who just hate Bill Clinton for some reason or other should really read this book.
I really liked the part at the end when he talks about how close he came to brokering a two-state solution to the problem of Palestine and Israel, but how Arafat -- who was getting older and, we later found out, very close to death -- turned it down despite everyone encouraging him to take the deal.
At nearly 1000 pages, this book is not for the faint of heart.
The beginning is slow, as it seems that Clinton is mentioning every single person that passed through his childhood and adolescence.
The book finally gets interesting when Clinton enters politics.
As someone who lived through the Clinton years, I enjoyed reading Clinton's perspective on events during that time.
His views on the Middle East talks were particularly interesting and enlightening.
His insider's view of politics during that time is also very fascinating, especially as we head into an election year.
I was already a Bill Clinton fan, but his memoir just solidified my reasons. Very moving account of his life, especially his childhood/young adulthood. He is such an intelligent, self-made man. His detractors would do well to read this, too. Granted it is looooong. I initially purchased the book for my husband who enjoyed reading it, but I had trouble getting through all 900-plus pages and bought the audio CD instead. Listened to it on a long vacation drive. (Made my then 12-year-old son listen to it as well! He's also a fan!)
However, the elder William would not know the son who shared his name, because he died in a car accident before Clinton was born.
Clinton, and the future president would legally change his name to match the rest of his family.
We're even now.' I went right to the payphone, called Hillary, told her the story, and said I thought we could win." p.291 One most interesting things about Clinton's book is how he discusses how all the political and historical events that had occurred in his own life.
The president comments on the disastrous 1972 Democratic Convention that left the party weakened and crushed in that year's election.
This book is well written.This book is very longThis book has many interesting facts ...
toooo many!Did I mention that this book is very long???
This book is full of insane details...pages and pages and pages of insane details.This book is very long.At times I felt like screaming TMI!Did I mention that this book is EXTREMELY long???
I just feel like screaming GET TO THE POINT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!Because ...
this book is wowza long.I just could not finish it ...
it was just not up my alley -- it gets 3 stars for being excellent --- if it was readable it would have gotten 4 but ...
This book is very long.
Nevertheless, I read it and, since biographies is my favorite genre, I have this little game I play after closing each book: "Was his life fun?" And I compare the life of the man in question to the lives of others from radically different walks of life.
And I have to say that if Bill's autobiography is indicative and applicable to other presidents or political servants, then I would not wish a life like that for myself.
Clinton also does have some hard words to say about the hard Right, with whom he was constantly at war for the last six years of his presidency.
Of course, the real tragedy is Bush came in and decimated everything, rolling back social expansions, international friendships, and financial gains and starting a three TRILLION dollar war in Iraq (I'm reading on a book on this right now) we couldn't pay for and had to borrow to finance, thus practically bankrupting the country for years to come.
Obama is better than having the far right Republicans in office, certainly, but he's no Clinton.
استغرقني من الوقت الكثير حتى اكمل هذه السيرة الروائية الذاتية لحاكم اكبر دولة في العالم ..الكتاب ممل في معظم اوقاته والسيرة تتضمن امور تافهة لا تهمنا في شيئ وان كان لا بد منها فهي خلت من عنصر التشويق كما انني لم اجد في اسلوب الترجمة اي اشادة تذكر...حياة بيل كلنتون رتيبة ومملة كما أن شخصيته تشعرك بانه لو إمتهن اي مهنة غير السياسة لكان افضل له ...لم يمتعني الكتاب واخذ من وقتي الكثير وقد قرات الكتاب علي فترات متقطعة غير مشدود له .
Clinton's autobiography is long but well worth the read if you want to get the slightest clue about the dirty tricks he faced in D.C. while trying to keep his campaign promises.
It's been a while since I read it but I remember being disappointed as it was fairly boring.What's more,it just went on and on.It could have used a fair bit of editing and one volume could have easily sufficed instead of two.
I've read a lot of books much shorter than this that came to a much more satisfying conclusion, with far fewer characters, conflicts, and more likeable protagonists.
Clinton has a habit of introducing random people who he claims were his friends who helped him politically or personally.
My coworker saw me reading the book and said (several times), "Does it say if he slept with Monica Lewinsky?" And I responded, "I don't know, I just started." (200 pages in) And, well, I only got up to his speech at the Dukakis nomination.
Moreover, the Lewinsky scandal will be as remembered a hundred years from now as Grover Cleveland's love child is today.
Relating how he befriended a girl who others thought was odd only to discover she had MS and then to break into how in such an such a year he passed this or that law while remembering her is both pedantic and highlights the book's underlying flaw: Clinton is still a politician guiding his Message and Image and that mission makes for dull reading at best an unintended humor at worst as when for example he relates his rather overeducated take on rap music.Perhaps, as a more political document this is understandable but it makes for torturous reading at times.
As a politics and history buff, I have read a variety of presidential biographies. But, I am ashamed to admit that this is only the first presidential   autobiography   that I have read. I think I can review this book in a proper, unbiased way, because politically I side with neither the Democratic nor Republican Party, but am a political independent.That said, I do think that Clinton was one of our most successful presidents, domestically, that is that we have ever had. Were I alive back in 199
As a politics and history buff, I have read a variety of presidential biographies.
I think I can review this book in a proper, unbiased way, because politically I side with neither the Democratic nor Republican Party, but am a political independent.That said, I do think that Clinton was one of our most successful presidents, domestically, that is that we have ever had.
Obama's Congress is a modern hard headed ultra-conservative one that refuses to cooperate, digging the US deeper into the recession.However, I disagree with him intently on his foreign policy in places such as Yugoslavia, Iraq, Sudan, Colombia, etc.
In his first chapter, Clinton mentions that he once departed from his reading material of choice, fiction, and picked up a sort of self-help book on making goals for the future.
As instructed by the book, the college-age Clinton made up a list of short and long term goals, with the top few being to have a family, a successful political career, and to write a great book.If this was his great book, I'm disappointed.
It added a few interesting facts about the Clinton administration, and is a nice study of one person's rise to prominence, but is little else.
I am a fan of Bill.
This book details his life, esp.
growing up, becoming governor, and then president.
What I dislike most about this book is its defensive tone.
I think this book gave a lot of insight into Bill's personal challenges.
However, what I would like to know are the insights he had as president, as a world leader setting the stage.
I think Bill Clinton's presidency was one of the most successful to date; I want to know how this happened, not why Bill's critics are wrong.
Listen to the audio :)I found Hillary's autobiography to be more interesting and informative, but listening to Bill read his own story was heartwarming and inspiring. I love hearing how political powerhouses get there. And no matter what people say, he had new ideas and really accomplished a lot.
This is a poorly written series of justifications. An annoying characteristic of his writing in this 1000-page diary is Pres. Clinton's insistence on classifying every non-white person he has encountered by their ethnic background. My advice: avoid it.
As I gave in to the detailed nature of the book though I began to appreciate the opportunity of seeing a president's entire story.
It was also a good opportunity to relive the important events of 1992-2000, when I was mostly too young to fully appreciate them.I went to the book signing on July 7, 2004:
You had to go twice, the first time for a bracelet and the second time for the signing.
This is me and my friend Julie in 2004 with our copy and our bracelets for the signing.
The particulars of his early years are well known – how his father was tragically killed three months before Bill was born, how his nurse mother and his grandparents raised him until she married a man named Clinton in 1950 when Bill was almost four years old.
The greater part of the book chronicles his political rise through the governorship of the state of Arkansas, the evolution of his family life and the remarkable people he has met along the way as well as the development of his liberal but pragmatic political philosophy.
تعرفت في هذا الكتاب على كم هائل من المؤسسات الأمريكية التي يكون كل منها جماعة ضغط تساهم في تشكيل الرأي العام واتخاذ القرار.أعجبني في هذه الرحلة فكرة تكافؤ الفرص التي تتوافر في المجتمع الأمريكي والتي سمحت لشاب من أسرة عادية أن يصل إلى قمة الحكم باجتهاده ومهارته وبعلمه أيضا، فشرف العلم فوق كل شرف.تجد في هذا الكتاب ما يدلك ألف مرة على أن هؤلاء أقوام يراعون شعوبهم، أو على الأقل يبرعون في ايهامهم بذلك، ولا يوجد من الساسة من يجرؤ على الاستهانة بناخب أو بمواطن مهما كان نوعه أو عرقه، وإلا خسر الكثير يوم التصويت..
A better title for this autobiography would have been "My Diary." I feel the same about this book as I do about Hillary Clinton's memoirs -- it reads like a travel log.
Bill's book is a little more interesting as he discusses Whitewater, the Lewinsky scandal and the independent counsel in more detail.
In Bill Clinton's memoirs, he seems more forthcoming than his wife appears to be in her book.
And while he discusses the Lewinsky scandal, there is precious little on the subject and for that I am grateful.
But, somehow under Clinton's presidency we were able to move the country forward both economically and socially.
For all of his faults, Bill Clinton in his autobiography My Life does a pretty decent job of conveying how the course of his life affect his views on his political career and his policy decisions.
Concerning his personal faults and poor decisions in office, Clinton does a good job of downplaying the events and does not go into graphic detail.
While that makes his explanations and apologies a bit weak, it is important to stress that this is not a dissertation on why his "illicit sexual relations" were wrong; its a book about his life as a whole, and all that was really only a small part of the man he was.
Si los hechos no hablaran tan claro (sobre todo para mi país), después de leer un libro así uno casi que propondría al querido William para canonizarlo.
Hay pasajes que lo hacen llorar a uno de la emoción.Otra cosa que me gustó, es la descripción tan fácil de entender de lo que significa en la cotidianidad ser presidente de un país, y sobre todo, de los Estados Unidos.
Pero después de leer este libro, entiendo muchas más cosas sobre ese oficio, de lo que lo hacía anteriormente."
I appreciate that it takes substantial ego and confidence to become President, but this guy has surfeit of both.
His treatment of the events of his presidency, both foreign and domestic, are really just explanations of how those events affected him, what he thought about them, why the Right was so wrong and mean to him...etc.
I know it's a memoir, and some of that is to be expected, but I am reading Madeleine Albright's memoir at the same time and hers is a far richer and better crafted account of at least the foreign policy behind the book.I like Clinton less as a person, a writer, and a President because of this book.
