https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11886346-the-world-crisis-volume-ii
Fascinating book loaded with insight about war and the best plans gone awry. Sir Winston Churchill’s telling of trying to take the Dardanelles. The result of Gallipoli. A lot of philosophy and I hear his certainty that war when waged must be total. Interesting clashing of views and then loss of opportunity through delays and miscommunications.
MastervilleA master not only of the English language, but of the nuanced details of political, diplomatic, and military events as they relate to each other, Churchill provides here a long, detailed look at the events of 1915 with a focus on the failure of the Dardanelles venture and what that meant for the War. highly recommend
So, I was intrigued to read his account of that year and the decision-making processes involved.And this book should be read by people in government and bureaucracies, as it is a textbook in how poor decisions can be made and then have devastating consequences.The basic strategy of the campaign, as Churchill relates it, was bold and could have dramatically changed the course of the war, possibly ending it more quickly.
And, it could have been successful, according to Churchill, who quotes extensive from the record, including Turkish and German accounts of the enemies strength.
He wrote the high ground was taken during the Dardanelles by Gurkhas, but that soon after this success friendly naval fire decimated the successful attackers, forcing them back down the hill, with the all-important ridge line never to be retaken.
There is no way a barrage of the largest guns goes unnoticed by all the other ships moored in the area.I also judged Churchill to be dishonest in his appraisal of forces.
He wrote this after the Great War, when it was clear that entrenched machine guns could hold off superior forces and incur substantial, unacceptable losses.
Work when work is to be done; rest comes later.- Gains, easily won, once given up freely, may never be had again.- In some situations, a great / full / maximal effort in a quick & short period of time will gain victory easily.
Whereas a half-hearted, halfway effort & devotion will accrue only losses, even if carried out over a great period of time.- Dragging one's feet / delaying action in some matters can lead to certain disaster.- Be an optimist about a just cause.
"While time is young, while prospects are favourable, while prizes inestimable may be gained, caution, hesitancy, half measures rule and fetter action.
First off, I found Churchill's style EXTREMELY easy and fun to read.
I didn't expect a dry academic style, but how he writes makes me want to read more of his work.Of course, one must take his words with a grain of salt.
Naval Commander De Robeck and military commander Sir Ian Hamilton did not use common sense to pursue the attack.
Churchill.
****.This second volume in Churchill’s great history of WW I focuses on the year during which the actual fact of the war was brought home to the Allies.
It was the time when England realized that the war would not be won by their superior navy, but that the war would wind down to the series of trench battles that took so many lives.
Prior to the major battles with the Turks, England began to concentrate on potential new ways of waging a war.
Methods of being mobile and safe from armaments while moving about fields of battle: tanks.
As with Volume I of this series, there is a lot of detail about ship capacity, but it seems truly necessary to understand the military tale.
What a sad and tragic story this volume tells.
Could the entire tragedy of WWI have been avoided with a few actions early in this time?
Could the epic tragedy of the loss of the Dardanelles have been avoided if the British government hadn't changed at a critical moment?
But the entire Dardanelles story is filled with one frustrating, avoidable mistake and delay after another.
A volume worthy of Churchill.
Where to begin with this amazing volume?
Finally reading Churchill's own blow by blow analysis of the Dardanelles disaster has breathed life and meaning into an account I had read many times in other books by other authors, and given me so much to think about with respect to the curious nature of both politics and men in wartime.Though my progress with these books has been slow, this volume confirmed for me that without a doubt The World Crisis will be one of the most important books I read in my lifetime.
Though I plan to take a short break to finish up a few other books I do hope I can at least get through Volume III this year as well.
Complemented by visiting the Imperial War Museum
cold
Could be subtitled "Why Gallipoli really wasn't my fault."
