https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34311452-year-one
"The human race is finished, and in its place come the weird and the strange, demons from hell." I was excited when I heard about Year One. Roberts's romances may not be my thing, but I did enjoy the first few books of her Naked in Death series, and I've really been in the mood for a dark, post-apocalyptic dystopia. But, sadly, I think what started as a really great dystopian set-up quickly became a very stock urban fantasy novel.It's honestly quite jarring how quickly it changes. The first few
Roberts also uses a really strange fragmented sentencing style that I don't recall her using in her other books.
The dialogue is often stilted, it’s not always evident who is speaking, and comma splices make up every other sentence.Jonah, Arlys, Lana and Max are the main focus of the novel, and the latter two are expecting a child who it seems will become central to the war between good and evil, but there are many, many characters in this book and all of them seem pretty black or white; good or bad.
It's all a little bland.This is actually the most disappointed I've been in a while - I think mostly because the start of the book was so strong that I had been subconsciously writing a five-star review in my head.
I enjoyed it! Mel 🖤🐾🐺
Just in a way that was different from what I was expecting.Have you ever picked up a book by an author you love and when you start reading it you keep having to remind yourself that said author wrote it?
As I’ve stated in previous reviews of her work, Nora’s novel’s are like a bubble bath for my brain; they’re what I turn to when I’m stressed or sick or just in the mood for comfort.So, when I started reading Year One, I was thrown for a bit of a loop.
I was getting the prose I love, but with a plot that honestly hearkened back to Stephen King’s The Stand more than any other book I’ve ever read.
Nora Roberts writing Urban Fantasy?It's a good day.I absolutely LOVE her Eve Dallas series.
We are a predictable lot.In this book we are following a few different main characters and their struggles to find other humans and safety.
Where's the "let's kill it" meme?Not only did I love this character, but felt like all of them were interesting and well-developed.
I wouldn't mind seeing one or more of them struggle for their humanity or something like that in future books.
Plus, I don't want her to slow down on the Eve Dallas series to write this one.
Half of the population is gone, governments lose control, law and order are a thing of the past and magick is unleashed...some good and definitely some dark and evil.
She masterfully creates a world of chaos while interjecting normalcy through her characters.
I’m just sorry it took me so long to listen to this story.
The contrasts of good and evil with human nature is chilling as it has some parallels to current events.
The next installment can’t come too soon and I’m definitely listening to the rest of the series.
Of course where there is good magic there has to be bad also and just surviving the Doom does not mean you are going to live for long.Roberts has a knack for developing characters we care for and some of them do make it to the end of the book.
However it is quite clear that no one is safe yet and there are going to be many years before people will be safe again.
I enjoyed Year One very much indeed and I can recommend the audiobook version as well!
I am not the biggest fan of reviewing books on goodreads but I really want to explain this rating...
because I did enjoy this book and will be carrying on the series..The reason this book lost two stars for me..~ Tooooo many characters.
A dystopian setting...
I really didn't see enough 'Uncanny' characters.
I wanted more explanation to the differences between witches, fairies, elves bla bla bla.
That being said, I did enjoy this book.
which I believe is set 16 or 18 years in the future..
Anyway, sorry for this grammar filled, gross spelled review.
★★★.5 stars❝And some like us couldn't handle what turned on inside them. They've gone mad, like she has. Immune to the virus, doomed anyway. That's the reality...❞For me to have been so excited to read this fantasy book by Nora Roberts - one of my most-read authors - it pains me to only give it 3.5 stars. It wasn't bad, but then again, it wasn't that good either.Want to know what this book was? Quick summary: Contagion meets the X-Men meets Little House on the Prairie. What I Liked - The Doom. E
That's the reality...❞For me to have been so excited to read this fantasy book by Nora Roberts - one of my most-read authors - it pains me to only give it 3.5 stars.
It wasn't bad, but then again, it wasn't that good either.Want to know what this book was?
The book comes alive when the action is underway.
The "busy" parts of the book were well written.
- I wanted more of a pull into the next book.
At this point, I almost feel like I could walk away from the series and be alright.
It doesn't re-write the apocalypse genre but it is a good read and I did like the magical twist.
That's an interesting twist and they've been set up (for the most part) to have big roles in the next few weeks.
There are one or two characters that are bad and again you can see they will have more of a role in the second book but I was expecting a super-evil but I'm happy to wait and see what happens next.Overall I really enjoyed this.
I'm intrigued enough to follow the series to its conclusion and looking forward to what happens nextFree arc from netgalley
It’s not even the flu.It’s the Doom.If you needed any further proof that the world was ending, here comes Nora Roberts with “Year One,” a work of speculative fiction about a deadly pandemic.
Yes, the ground is already littered with the corpses of earlier apocalyptic novels, but Roberts will have no trouble clearing a spot to land.
“Year One” begins with the deaths of 5 billion people, which is almost as many books as Roberts has sold.What better way to celebrate the centennial of the Spanish flu?
As the family who had come together for Christmas/New Year celebrations in the cold Scottish countryside, left and headed back to their respective homes, little did they know they were the bearers of a horrible, shocking sickness that would be christened The Doom, and would kill in days.
In New York, as people sickened and died, terror and madness spread throughout the community.
Could they feel hope for the future when it seemed there were very few people left?
I absolutely devoured Year One and am really looking forward to book 2 in the (hopefully) not too distant future.
So it's safe to say Year One (Chronicles of The One #1) by Nora Roberts was one I was really looking forward to I was really excited when I got the ARC of this, like jumping up and down excited.That is until I started and realised what a slog this was going to be for me.Not because this was awful, it so wasn't, It was just I couldn't gel and was actually finding reading this a chore.Anyone who knows's me knows I devour books in one sitting and this took me eleven days to get finished which is a
As the world, as we know it, starts to disintegrate new factions spring up clawing there way out of the resulting chaos.Of the five million dead, Mankind and the newly emerged magic kind, regroup into factions of light versus dark.The wickedness of mankind, that has previously hidden behind a persona, soon becomes apparent in the decimated population left behind.And It's also a new world filled with all sorts of magical creatures both light and dark."Year One" itself follows different cloisters of individuals, analysing their daily struggles as they ultimately all eventually convene in the collective effort of the town they have aptly named "New Hope".I'm not entirely sure why I struggled so much with this as Year One was very well written and I have also enjoyed various Nora Roberts works before.analysing it I think it may have been the hopping between characters that was an issue for me.
FIVE FANTASTIC STARS!!!Wow!
This book was so amazing!
It all starts with a virus that wipes out a lot of the world’s people with over two billion people are killed in the Doom.
This is a story of survivors trying to not only survive but restart civilization.
Heck, I cannot even put something about one of the main plots because it would completely destroy some of the story.
So I will leave it that this book is epic.
It is a must read for sure.My quick and simple overall: SO impressed with this story and LOVED it!
Year One by Nora Roberts is a dystopian novel that has a lot of diversity to keep you entertained.
After a virus kills off billions on people the survivors are left with a fight of good against evil.
Many of the survivors learn that they now have developed strange powers.
In this new post apocalyptic world its survival of the fittest.
I'm am looking forward to the second book in this trilogy to find out what happens to the many interesting characters.
I would like to thank NetGally and Little, Brown Book Group UK for my E-copy in exchange for an honest review.
**This is a review of the audio version of  this title, via Audible. This novel already has some 1,300+ reviews on Goodreads (only being released in December of 2017), so I am going to keep my summarizing to a minimum and quickly get to the things I loved about this novel and the one thing that threw me. This novel starts out following multiple story lines and perspectives through a world where a plague dubbed "The Doom" is swiftly wiping out the population. Very reminiscent of The Stand by Ste
Once the Doom sets in, Lana, along with many others in the world, have suddenly discovered that they have various magical capabilities--some of which embrace the darker side of magic.Things I loved:♦ A lot of character depth♦ Plot is driven by a very prophecy-like chain of events♦ Captured the same plague-action as The Stand, without taking me 40 Audible hours to get through♦ Has a great ending, not a true cliff-hanger, but leaves you looking forward to that second installment to see what is to come nextThe one thing that threw me for a loop:This novel was a very unique, yet odd mixture of post-apocalyptic, survivalist-type fiction and some pretty heavy fantasy.
I've never read a Roberts book before as shes never had a book in a genre thats appealed to me. Gave this a read after a promising blurb. A pandemic sweeps across the world, kinda remisncent of other post apocalyptic stories but I felt this became a little too urban fantasy YAish, which by themselves is great, but together it felt disjointed. Too many characters which I felt had no influence on the plot. The concept was great, just didnt pull through with the execution.
Ok I’m really really surprised how much I enjoyed this book. So well done. My full review will be up on my booktube channel at http://Youtube.com/peterlikesbooks
Even though I feel like I’ve read/seen similar versions of this story before, Nora somehow managed to deliver a new spin on many previously explored ideas in the apocalyptic genre, creating a gripping and nerve-wracking reading experience unlike anything she’s ever written before.Honestly, I was impressed.
I kept forgetting I was actually reading a Nora Roberts book, which blew my mind a little bit having spent more of my life reading this woman’s work than any other author.The large ensemble cast of characters also worked really well for me.
3 StarsWith any apocalypse story you’re gonna get devastating lost and horrific goings on, all of which is sure to make or break a person in their desperate attempt to live another day.
Roberts here has spread her writing wings by encompassing the classic struggle of good vs evil as she incorporates fantasy and supernatural elements to survival of the fittest, plus a prophecy to boot.My interest is caught, but this being the first book in a planned trilogy, there’s a definitely a lot going on here with multiple threads and characters, and many unknowns were left dangling.
Luckily with 2 books to go, I look forward to what will hopefully be a satisfying payoff!
We meet some interesting characters along the way and we see strength in people who didn’t even know they had it in them.For me, Year One was all about reflecting on ME and how I would handle the world coming to an end.
In the end, I decided that I didn’t want to think about it and I hoped that I’d be dead and buried before something like this hit our world.Now, I can’t really judge this against other stories of the like because I haven’t really read many books like this one.
If you enjoy books that pit good against evil then this first in what I'm guessing might be a trilogy should be right up your street.Essentially we follow a rag tag bunch of survivors and some of them have had abilities awoken in them that are often too amazing to believe.
Jonah the paramedic, Arlys the reporter, Lana the chef and Max the novelist really stood out but as they travel towards their destiny other characters appear both good and unfortunately bad.
Yes there are dark and wicked things happening but in contrast we also see just how vile and aggressive normal folks can be which is chilling.
Pride—because as an author, I love being part of a community that contributes to great storytelling; and envy—because when a great storyteller proves their chops time and time again, I can’t help but feel a teensy, tiny bit jealous that they are so damn talented.Not that this jealousy would ever stop me from buying a good book.For me, the single most important factor in any story (other than competent writing) is character.
I am willing to walk the road because I’ve read enough of her books in the past to know that she can spin a good tale with characters I feel like I know.My full review here:https://www.criminalelement.com/blogs...
Let a friend borrow this to read first. DNF at page 150. Too many characters.Too much happening. Just, no.
Year One is the beginning of something new and EXCITING!!!Year One is the first book in a trilogy that is more complex and layered then anything I ever read by Nora Roberts.
Instead of a typical trilogy with each book dedicated to a different couple - Year One is the beginning of an EPIC story that seems to span generations.Think HIGH fantasy.The author introduces an amazing cast during a chilling and world changing event.
So, if you love the dystopian genre, big and interesting casts, and a story that spans generations - you need to pick this book up and give it a try.
Where to start?
Following the fate of the McLeod family who seems to ignite the 'Doom' virus, we arrive to N.Y. and other more important characters, like witches .
We never are offered an explanation of that pre-existence or why there are people with 'sparking' powers before the rapefest start.
Then we follow the separate ardous journeys of Arlys, a journalist, and Lana, a chef, trying to reach safety.
Between spurs of fairies (I-kid-you-not), warlocks, your average violent sociopath, pro-human fanatics, savagery and gore, the main concern of Arlys and Lana is internet and yeast.
(waiting for the next book).I'm done.
Can’t wait for Year Two!
It's New Year and the world is about to be hit by the Doom, a disease that kills with a 100% mortality rate. However, there are some who are immune and amoungst those immune there are some who are developing powers. Like all power, some of it is being used for good, such as the couple Lana and Max, witches whose magic seems to grow more and more as the world crumbles around her and there are those who use their magic for darkness and destruction. Lana and Max must escape New York as it becomes
However, I have, barely, marshalled my thoughts so they make slightly more sense so I can say more than just "get it" and do loads of exuberant hand movements when I trying to say what I adore about it.The WorldI loved the world that Roberts has started to create in Year One, it reminds me of a mixture of the TV series The Walking Dead and the book series The Others by Anne Bishop.
So many horrible things happen, actions done by people are horrific –without even the dark magic influencing them – they are just psychopaths.
There is no cliff-hanger at the end, which I liked, but the world is splitting into good and evil – which I think would happen despite a magical element – and it is obvious that strong good magic is going to be needed to defeat the bad.Whatever path Ms Roberts is going to take us down with this story in the next two books I feel that readers should be complacent – I for one am really looking forwards to travelling them with her.With thanks to Hachette Australia and the author via Netgalley for my copy to read and review.
I also really liked the multi-POV's because each chapter definitely kept me on my toes.This is a world where tons of people have died due to a virus.
For the few who have survived, well they are learning new things about this world, virus, and their own lives.
well, things are going to change and get even weirder.Now this is a book about good vs.
This book definitely gave me a vibe of like the heroes meets resident evil.
I definitely grew to love certain characters (and I wont say if they lived or not) but it was definitely an enjoyable book.
I love everything about this book! I can't wait for the second book to release in December. (buddy read with Shannon and Heather)
