https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/328854.Motherless_Brooklyn
Things go terribly wrong, and the relationships within Minna's Men become fragile and uncertain."Together [the streets] made a crisscrossed game board of Frank Minna’s alliances and enmities, and me and Gil Coney and the other Agency Men were the markers—like Monopoly pieces, I sometimes thought, tin automobiles or terriers (not top hats, surely)—to be moved around that game board.
But wrapped up in the mystery is a solid, thoughtful portrayal of man who was given the closest thing to family and companionship he ever knew by a low-level mobster.
At one point, I realized with some surprised that I was reading a solid literary-fiction kind of book, with beautiful writing and human drama, wrapped up in a mystery.
I feel like there's also solid re-read potential here.
“In detective stories things are always always, the detective casting his exhausted, caustic gaze over the corrupted permanence of everything and thrilling you with his sweetly savage generalizations.
I’ve heard some people say that it felt too gimmicky, and to them I’d say “You’re missing the point.
It’s your fault you thought it was meant to be funny, and you might also be kind of an asshole.”After reading this, in my non-expert self diagnosis, I think I may have some very subtle, extremely manageable Tourette’s going on.
I’d grind my jaw left and right until it ached.
I’d grind my left shoulder blade on my ribs over and over again.
It probably helped, too, that she never made any apologies for her outbursts.So it was interesting for me, with Motherless Brooklyn, to experience life through the first-person perspective of Lionel Essrog, a man with, not only Tourette’s, but also its oft-accompanying sidekick, obsessive-compulsive disorder.
I felt a kinship with the misunderstood, relatively lonely man who is driven by a misguided sense of loyalty in the search for his mentor’s killer.Being at its core a mystery/crime thriller, Motherless Brooklyn at times falls prey to some of the clichés of the genre, but Lethem succeeds in transcending this label by writing with, I don’t know, heart or something.
I read this 'often hilarious'-[one-of-a-kind]-novel many years ago --The main character has Tourette's syndrome. I must have read this about 10 years ago. I've yet to read another novel (crime-satire-whodunit-to boot), with a story centered around 'Tourette's syndrome. No other author wanted to go toe-to-toe with, Jonathan Lethem, huh? "Eat S*it"... "go F#*+K yourself" ...."Thehorrorthehorror" .....and "Icouldabeenacontender!" is endearing in the most pure *Zen-in-the city*! Wonderful reviews here on GR's that came before me!!!
“Tourette's is just one big lifetime of tag, really.
So I tag back.
If you've ever been it you know the answer.” ― Jonathan Lethem, Motherless BrooklynA kinda egg-sandwich surprise, hardboilded detective novel.
Check check.
Also, check check checkaramadingdong.
Look fair weather readers, I like Lethem (see four stars...I couldn't stop at three), just like I like Chabon.
Actually, almost exactly like I like Chabon.
I was treated to a comic when I wanted a novel, a girl when I wanted a woman, a joke when I wanted a koan.
He is compelled to snap, count, bark, grunt, tap and make strange Vocalizations at inopportune moments, sometimes even with a gun stuffed in his face.
Lionel gets to work to try and solve the mystery of his murder, and has a run in with some unwelcoming and bizarre characters along the way.Lethem's actual plot is hardly crackerjack detective material, the slow pacing and predictable turn of events (up to a point) are kind of standard issue when it comes to this type of story.
And it's in such parodies of the detective novel set piece that Lethem signals his fondness for the genre with a prickly ambivalence.
Reading this book kind of gave me an inside look at why these things happen, since I've always just wanted to ask Treston what he's thinking, but at the same time, knowing he's not able to answer me.
It kind of gave me hope that Treston can have a somewhat "normal" life (not that I want him to become a Minna Man or anything), but when he gets older he will be able to have friends and relationships--even if they're dysfunctional, but really, who doesn't have some of those?Wow, I know that's a lot to take from a so-called detective novel, but really, it's that good.
Have you read Motherless Brooklyn yet?
I mean, sure, the idea of an orphaned private detective with Tourette's Syndrome sounded a little strange to me too, possibly even depressing, but as it turns out this novel is anything but depressing.
The aforementioned orphaned detective is one of the best characters I can ever remember encountering in any novel anywhere.
I really want to read more of Jonathan Lethem's books now, but I don't see how even he could live up to the high bar he's set here.
Definitely in my top 3 for 2017 so far, and possibly in my top 10 novels of all time.
Yay Motherless Brooklyn!
Frank treated them to bigger boy delights like twenty dollar bills and bottles of beer for their efforts, and they just stayed on staff as they got older and more useful.
He had a hale and hearty interior life just below the surface.As the fast-paced storyline develops, Lionel and a colleague witness a terrible, unexplained act perpetrated against Frank.
Each of the boys, now Minna “Men”, reacts in a different way, mostly grabbing for power and prestige while trying to appear helpful.
All in all, it’s a fast and enjoyable read, with a different kind of protagonist to pull for.
About Motherless Brooklyn Newsday calls Jonathan Lethem "one of the most original voices among younger American novelists;" while Entertainment Weekly describes him as "one of our most inventive, stylish and sensous writers." I strongly disagree.
New York detective agency, members killed, Brooklyn underworld, hitmen, mob funding, Japanese profiteers.Lethem attempts something in Motherless Brooklyn that seems very original.
We learn (a little) what it's like to have Tourette's, and perhaps it was Lethem's intent to hammer the same vocal repititions to prove the insidiousness of Tourettes, but in the end, Lionel is a very flat, predictable, and unsympathetic character.Here's a list where I think gimmickry replaces originality.
“Prince's music calmed me as much as masturbation or a cheeseburger.” Lionel Essrog, protagonist in Lethem's Motherless BrooklynLethem's 1999 literary detective novel set in Brooklyn was a fun read, much more layered and satisfying than the hard-boiled detective novels.
The protagonist Lionel Essrog grew up an orphan and was nicknamed "The Human Freakshow" due to his Tourette syndrome.
In lesser hands, these verbal tics could have turned gimmicky, but here Lethem fully develops Essrog and makes the reader care about him.Essrog is working for Frank Minna, who has some mob connections and owns a "seedy," "makeshift" detective agency (a front for two-bit organized crime), when Minna is murdered by stabbing.
Essrog's suspenseful journey investigating and solving the crime is always intelligent and often risible.
Lethem is a master at hip, funny, serious, genre mash-up fiction, and this (IMHO) is his best so far.
It's a soft-hearted, hard-boiled, Zen-infused, satirical noir, narrated by a small-time detective with Tourette's.
The narrator, Lionel Essrog (now there's a Pynchonesque name), uses his condition to think about, well, language itself, as his outbursts often riff on what they're supposed to convey.
Sure, the plot itself is pretty formulaic, but that's the point--these characters are trapped in their own genre conventions just as Essrog is trapped in his linguistic ones, which gives his outbursts a heightened sense of liberation and freedom.

And the third time's indeed the charm! Read previously circa 2000 and again several years later. My first read, at least, was as an audiobook.This is the tale of four punks and a hoodIn Brooklyn, New York, tryin' to make good,Mommyless orphanage, no Cub Scouts or den--Instead, Mista Meanor made 'em his men.Once they're abandoned, the center can't hold;Our ticcy hero must be bold (or fold).You follow the thread as the story unspools,Learning who are the wise guys and who are the foolsAnd who, th
My first read, at least, was as an audiobook.This is the tale of four punks and a hoodIn Brooklyn, New York, tryin' to make good,Mommyless orphanage, no Cub Scouts or den--Instead, Mista Meanor made 'em his men.Once they're abandoned, the center can't hold;Our ticcy hero must be bold (or fold).You follow the thread as the story unspools,Learning who are the wise guys and who are the foolsAnd who, the financial wizards of Zen,And how can our motherless boys become men.In the midst of the noir and the middle of chaos,Can the love and sacrifice yet be the stronger force?Outbursts tics, outcome art, drawing both tears and laughter--The Shakespeare of Tourette's: Lethem's the crafter!
I love Lionel.
Did I mention Lionel has Tourette’s?
I’ve only met one person with Tourette’s and he wasn’t as lyrical as Lionel.
(We don’t like nurses very much.) Anyway, that’s my Tourette’s story… on to Lionel and the Minna Men. Motherless Brooklyn wasn’t one of those books that I couldn’t put down, but it was one that will stick with me.
or spread by means it finds, fed in springs by mimes, bled by mangy spies or an insight to what living with Tourette’s might be like but because it’s so human.
This case is less carelessness and more a willful rejection of something that came before, just as Lethem rejects normal detective-novel conventions in favor of something a little more wrinkled and faded.But here's why this isn't just a genre work, or an anti-genre work:- Lionel's loss of innocence at finding out the true nature of Frank Minna, as well as the nature of just about every other character in the novel.
I had a strong desire to drop this text at page 30, but my inexperience with positively negative reviews naively committed myself to reading the whole damn thing merely for the sake of the authority which such completionism would grant this here review.First-person novels are difficult to write well and even more difficult for me to enjoy--the claustrophobia and extreme constriction of the novelistic world, squeezed as it is through a pair of unknowing eyes, tends toward a poverty of possibility.
The narrator who says "I" appears in the text as something distinct from the character whose experiences are recorded by that "I"; this "I"'s position of enunciation is never accounted for--i.e., why is he telling us this?
Motherless Brooklyn is a beautifully written novel about a complicated man named Lionel Essrog who is an orphan and a sufferer of Tourette's.
Lionel also suffers from OCD and the infinite need to count things...to mix words in his head and regurgitate them in order to sort through the chaos that is everday life for a hood in Brooklyn, New York.Lionel is a Minna man, a supposed brainless strong-arm for a man named Frank Minna.
Video-review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i-uWL...#3 in my Top 20 Books I Read in 2015: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zIWkw...Long story short: possibly the best detective novel ever written, certainly one of the best novels of the last twenty years. A beautifully orchestrated hard-boliled story that smells of pavement, incense and White Castle burgers, one that manages to be mercilessly real, breath-takingly beautiful and deeply deeply emotional. And don't make me start on the narrator because that's pure genius.
None of the characters had ever interested me much, so I didn't care if anyone lived or died and wasn't invested in what they'd done in the past or might do next.
Counter to my high expectations and best intentions, Motherless Brooklyn and I just didn't really connect, and while it wasn't a bad book at all I didn't especially like it, so my rating stands: "it was ok."
Like all fictional detectives he has one defining characteristic; something which sets him apart: Lionel has Tourette's Syndrome.
The virtuosity demonstrated by Lethem, as he joyfully strings syllables together for Lionel to spurt, becomes a distraction as the story unfolds: Imagine the incessant clickety-clack of Miss Marple's knitting needles in your ears or Philip Marlowe blowing smoke rings in your face.I found myself reading Lionel's utterances out loud to more fully appreciate them.
I wish Lethem would resurrect Lionel for a sequel, another story grounded in Brooklyn but without the constraints of the detective genre, because both Lionel and the borough where he lives came vividly to life.
"eat shit, dickyweed"
Prima di tutto mi unisco a chi prima di me ha criticato la discutibile scelta della traduzione del titolo in italiano, che sarebbe stato preciso se fosse stato tradotto letteralmente dal titolo americano, Brooklyn senza madre.E' un giallo con caratteristiche peculiari: la trama gialla c’è, c’è l’omicidio di Frank Minna, un piccolo boss italoamericano invischiato con la mafia e con affari made in Japan; c’è uno dei suoi Uomini, Lionel Essrog, soprannominato Testadipazzo, che si improvvisa detective per scoprire chi l’ha ucciso; ci sono tanti strani personaggi di contorno, che caratterizzano la storia come fosse una pellicola cinematografica (a proposito, ho letto che c’è un progetto di trarre un film da questo libro, che secondo me è adattissimo allo scopo), magari di Woody Allen.
Something within that pleases me to no end.Which makes reading a Jonathan Lethem mystery even more satisfying.
Dick's lost genius or interviewing Bob Dylan, every word the man writes is one that I find myself increasingly compelled to read as though I, too, suffered from the OCD compulsions that drive Motherless Brooklyn's hero, Lionel Essrog.
Along the way we are treated to a classic Lethem take on music and how Prince is the musical equivalent of Tourette's.
Seriously, if you haven't yet read anything by Lethem, do it!  This book is about a detective with Tourette's, and the writing is hysterical.  It would be a normal mystery except for the internal (and external) dialogue of the character, putting in ridiculous words like EATMEBAILEY in the middle of sentences.
Lionel Essrog must rank as one of the most original narrators of a novel in contemporary fiction.
His friends call him "Freak Show" and yet he has one of the most endearing narrative voices in modern fiction -- gentle, highly intelligent, vulnerable and humane, like Billy Pilgrim in Slaughterhouse Five.
Essrog rides through New York's subways noting how they offer a structure and canvass for irrepressible, subterranean human expressions like his.
The characters like the city are original and real with freakish overtones which stop short of stereotypes.
The word play through Essrog's Tourettic sensibilities were lyrical, poetic and even Joycean in places.
I enjoyed this story quite a bit.
I have no idea if the main character, Lionel Essrog, is portrayed accurately or well, since he has Tourette's Syndrome, but it's interesting, as well as funny and sad at times.
It's a detective story, a spoof perhaps, but not an obnoxious send-up.
Brooklyn, a Russian killer, mafioso, small time hoods, Japanese Zen, Japanese corporations and of all things, Maine and the Artist Formerly Know as Prince.I don't think the book quite lives up to the claims of some of the critics.
The climax was not perfect, the mystery was not an enigma wrapped in a wet noodle or whatever, but it was enjoyable, except next time, Lionel should get the girl.
This time around, I admired it even more but Lethem's inventiveness, humor and linguistic virtuosity still engage the brain more than the heart, at least for this reader.
Lionel and three other orphans (“all of motherless Brooklyn”) were plucked as teenagers from St. Vincent's Home for Boys by small-time gangster Frank Minna to work for his car service/detective agency.
When these “Minna Men” are unable to prevent Frank's murder, Lionel doggedly sets out to avenge the loss of the only father figure he has ever known and gets tangled up with a Zen center, for-real Brooklyn mobsters, a Polish giant, a powerful Japanese corporation and oh yes, a girl or two.
Lionel Essrog is one of the most endearing, sympathetic, and intriguing characters I've come across in a novel.
Despite his difficulties in socializing and conversing, Lionel becomes an unlikely detective in this mystery plot.
Motherless Brooklyn is more than a mystery novel, though.
I admire the way that Jonathan Lethem can create such a different, authentic sounding narrator.
Not only that, he created some very funny moments in this dark story.
And now--I'm simply going to have to touch all of Lethem's novels...I'd recommend this one to anyone.P.S. I found it intriguing that Lionel is into Prince.
It feels smaller than my other Lethem, The Fortress of Solitude, which keeps it from a five-star rating for me, but it's an awfully good time.Tourette's is on every page, and while it all feels like Lethem did a lot of research and is fairly depicting it, it also feels overwhelming - so much so that at one point one gets the sense that Lethem has stepped into the narrative to excuse himself: talking about Tourette's, Lionel explains, is itself a Touretteish tic.
One would think actors would be pushing each other aside to play Lionel.
And indeed IMDb tells me that it's somewhere in development hell, with Ed Norton possibly attached.
Of course, Ed Norton.
(Update: oh hey, it got made, Norton directed it, Bruce Willis (!) plays Lionel.
