https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/183135.The_Red_Trailer_Mystery
(hide spoiler)]As before, the heart of the story is the friendships between the kids, and Trixie and Honey's characters are even better developed.
I still like Honey better, and I love her kindheartedness toward the various lost souls, as well as her strength in standing up to her would-be kidnappers.But the book isn't without its ridiculousnesses, chief among which is (view spoiler)[the disposition of Jim's fate.
(hide spoiler)]The book ends with everyone comfortably taken care of and ready to move on to the next adventure, in which we meet Trixie's brothers who've been away at camp.
And now I am hearing that this series is way better than my beloved Nancy Drew stories.
This is the second story in the series and I read it to our oldest (and our youngest listened in for the second half of the book) on my hubby's iPad. We are still new to ebooks, but so far we really like the format and we really enjoyed reading it together.
There are some dangerous characters and mature themes in the book, but on the whole, it's just an exciting story, filled with mysteries and suspense.
I was a bit worried at first because I wasn't sure if I would enjoy re-reading them as an adult, and I didn't want to ruin my happy memories of reading about Trixie's adventures with her friends, Honey and Jim. After reading the first two books again, I'm glad that I decided to revist Sleepyside.
In the second book Trixie and Honey, along with Honey's Governess Miss Trask, pack up the Wheeler family travel trailer to go find Jim. The boy expressed interest in finding a camp counselor's job at one of the nearby campgrounds, so they hit the road to find him and bring him home.
I've never disliked it, per se, but I think #1 and #3 are among the best in the series and Red Trailer kind of sits in their shadow.
Certainly lots of excitement packed into one book!August 11, 2012: A re-read (and I'm still having trouble that it's been since 2004 since I sat down and read entire books in this series) and I still am not crazy about this book, probably more because books 1 and 2 are so great it just makes this one look weak by comparison.
But in my fanfic writing, I've become very attached to my Jo (Joeanne Darnell) and this is the only book she appears in, so I'm trying to read between the lines to discover what makes her tick.
On the first night, they camp next to a red trailer with a sad family inside, and the girls suspect something's wrong.
After arriving at the Autocamp where they're staying for the next week, Trixie and Honey ride horses to three boys' camps where Jim had said he wanted to find a job.
Eventually they find Jim and the 11 year old girl who are now working at the Smith farm picking beans, and Honey's parents meet them at the Autocamp and agree to adopt Jim. Trixie and Honey are ecstatic and look forward to going to school with Jim and their brothers.
Trixie and Honey are trying to find Jim (you'll have to read book one to find out who Honey and Jim are cause I don't want to add spoilers).
Yes, as an adult I figured out where Jim was before the girls found him but that was okay, it was still a fun read.I like the "old fashionedness" (that probably isn't a word but it describes what I wanted to say) of the books.
In this book one of the travel trailers in the story is equipped with a television and that is a big deal.I'm looking forward to getting the next book, The Gatehouse Mystery and seeing what mischief the girls get into this time.
I'm glad I finally read this one. (The perks of being an adult with a good library system--my childhood library was missing this crucial installment in the series.) To be honest, while I love Jim just as much as I ever did, I now occasionally get annoyed that Trixie never trusts adults with any real information, or sometimes even the truth. I think I'll end my re-read of the series here, because I'm sure it just would get worse the farther I go, but I am really glad to have re-visited the series as much as I did.
OK, I've been reading these books from my youth lately, and it's high time I gave 1950s girl-sleuth Trixie Belden her due.
The original books in this series were written in the late 1940s / early 1950s, in a time when girls were Betty Crockering-it-up, yet Trixie and gal pal Honey Wheeler are about as feisty, fun, and fierce as any girl besties of recent years - maybe more so.
In this second series installment, Honey out-swims an entire group of boys from a Summer Camp, then saves another swimmer who goes in a bit too deep.
Trixie and her best friend Honey set off in an RV (chauffeured by Honey's governess, Miss Trask) in search of their runaway friend, Jim. Along the way, they find even more mysteries to solve: a sad, mysterious family; missing trailers; a runaway child; and a stolen locket.
I'll be honest, I don't like this book very much for one primary reason: the repeated irresponsible care (or should I say "lack thereof?") toward the girls' dogs, Reddy and Bud. First off, they should have left them behind rather than take them on the trip.
I don't know what I can say about book 2 that wasn't said in my post about book 1, "The Secret of the Mansion." I love Trixie.
There are so few timeline references that you could be reading about teens in the 40's or teens today (aside from the lack of technology).
I can read these books as an adult and still enjoy them as much as I did as a kid.
I received my first Trixie book when I was 11, and 34 years later the books still hold my interest and my heart.
"Buffy" doesn't seem quite so bad in this company...) are 13, and in this book are fresh from solving an important mystery that revealed the true identity of a friendly teen named Joe they'd met camping in their woods after he ran away from home.
Along the way they find yet another mystery to investigate concerning a trailer theft ring and a down-on-their-luck wandering family whose own trailer seems a bit too good to be true.
Were 13 year old girls really allowed to rent horses and wander about through miles of woods without the slightest bit of supervision?
I read a few of these 1950s gems as a child, when I stumbled upon my mother's stash of girlhood books.
I'd never read them in order and had missed Book #2 all together.
While the overall series is enjoyable, I find the later books better when more of the 'Bobwhite Gang' (how cute!) works together to solve mysteries.
This book included bonus treasures from un-PC land including this quote: ""She's the fattest woman I ever saw, but she has a pretty face" and a pet blackbird named Jimmy Crow.
The entire series is great and Trixie Belden is a much better Nancy Drew, but the dated books are hard to read as an adult.
Once again a fabulous read.
Coupled with the first book in the series, The Secret of the Mansion, this is my favorite mystery of all time ...
of course it's written for very young teens, but I have loved it since I was that age, and the fascination of this story, even though it is a bit preposterous that two young teens would have such adventures, has never left me.
The first two in this series, especially, are fantastic mysteries and I love reading them over and over.
Book 2 of this, my favorite youth detective series. It is somewhat a continuation of book 1, and while a little unbelievable, it's a very fun, quick read. Certainly a light read for enjoyment.August 2013 ... just re-read, and just as good as ever. One of my favorites, though a bit far-fetched in some ways. Lots of good fun, delightful skills of deduction, and characters that I've come to love over the years.
A reread of a childhood favourite.Just like in the first book, there is a lot going on in this story. Lots of action, adventure and intrigue aimed at a younger readership. Reading this book now as an adult, I've picked up on the dated way the characters speak (this book was published in 1950) but that just added to the charm.
These books make me feel nostalgic for the good old days...that never existed, lol.
Honey and Trixie go on an adventure to look for Jim and solve a few mysteries along the way. The friendship that Trixie and Honey has is wonderful.Recommended 9/10+ scary situations
No, Honey's wonderful governess, Miss Trask, offers to drive the RV around upstate New York to search the boys' camps where they think Jim might be applying for work.
Always horses, which is why I loved these books so very much growing up.Pluses: Jimmy the Crow, the farm couple, and Miss Trask.Minuses: Honey's decision about her dog, no Reagan, and the ridiculous state trooper.
Julie Campbell, have you ever met a cop in your life?But I still dearly love these books, so 3 stars.
Book 2Another good Trixie Belden Book! The race to find Jim leads them to find two other mysteries with stolen caravans/trailers, farmers thieves and a family in crisis. Just get some leashes on those dogs! The adventurers are off for sleuthing and solving problems for a happy ending.
This was a fun read. It was first published in 1950. It's amazing how things have changed
This is the second in the Trixie Belden series. Since getting my books out of storage, I've decided to revisit the Trixie Belden mysteries. Mama bought my first Trixie Belden book for me when I was 13, and I loved the characters because they were kids, like me. They saw me through a lot of lonely times, when I accompanied Trixie and her friends on their many adventures. I highly recommend these books for young adults and pre-teens.
This is odd, of course, because they were MEANT for teen and pre-teen girls, but I was a young boy that read everything he could get his hands on and when I first stumbled on my first TRIXIE BELDON book I was instantly hooked!
Trixie is the star, or "lead" character, followed by Jim and Honey (who quickly became the love of my young life, I had a total crush on a fictional character that only existed in ink) and this brave trio was constantly getting into trouble, solving mysteries and murders; that sort of thing.
I lost all of my Trixie books years ago, lending them to friends and that sort of thing.
Trixie and Honey - along with Honey's governess, Miss Trask - set off in the Wheeler's trailer to find their missing friend.
This family does not appear to be the owners of the trailer.
They make friends with Mrs. Smith who is a very motherly person, and Trixie and Honey learn that her daughter is missing.While trying to help this family and look for Jim at the same time, they become entangled in a trailer robbing ring; and there are two suspicious workers at their trailer camp who may or may not be involved.
Once again, Trixie saves the day - with a little help from her friends.
Finishing this left me with no hesitation about continuing through the box of books unearthed in the garage.The infodump at the beginning was hilarious.
Adult me is aware that this was something that was likely required by the publisher so that any book can be the reader’s first.
From the publishing side of things, it didn’t matter which book was picked up, the recap at the beginning would bring them up to speed.
It almost makes me wonder if the first two books were intended to be a single novel with some fixup applied later to chop it in half and bring the size down.
A childhood favorite re-visited.Is the story as good as I remember?
– Most of a day’s read.Characters?
– Memorable, several characters.Setting?
– Real world - pre internet, computers, air conditioning,, and cell phones.Written approximately?
– 1948.Does the story leave questions in the readers mind?
– Ready to read more.Any issues the author (or a more recent publisher) should cover?
Also, the absence of computers, cell phones, and air conditioning, particularly in homes such as the mansion.Short storyline: Trixie Belden and Honey search for Jim, who has disappeared to escape an evil stepfather.Notes for the reader: A great mystery!
In this story, we pick up right where we left off in book #1 (so read these in order, these aren't like Nancy Drew's that can mostly be read in any order.) Trixie and Honey set off in Honey's trailer to find Jim before he disappears.
Trixie and Honey stay at an auto camp and search the woods near the boys camps for Jim, while they search they find clues to the identity of the people responsible for stealing many local trailers.
Will Trixie and Honey find Jim before he disappears for good or will the trailer thieves find them?
I cannot gush enough over what a joy it is to re-read these beloved books.
I can see with adult eyes that it's pretty cheesy, but for kids just getting into reading...
Kids today can read these vintage stories if they have a bit of generational understanding.
mansions like the ones you'd find England where the adjoining neighbors are so close they had to once belong to the Lord of the main house (mansion) in years before the book setting...
best...
books...
Hello, my long lost best friends.
The Red Trailer Mystery was basically about Trixie and Honey.
This story didn't really advance our understanding of Trixie and Honey.
We didn't meet any new characters that would continue on with us, except for a brief mention of Mr Lynch and his family of five children.It made me realise that I read my Trixie's over and over again not for the mysteries or the crime solving, but for the connections, the friendships and burgeoning romances of the main characters.The whole way through The Red Trailer Mystery I was impatient with the whole secrecy surrounding the red trailer.
The second book in the Trixie Belden series, and I’m not sure if I’d read this one before or not.
I didn’t remember the plot, and I really only read what I had available when I was a kid which was a few here and there from the series.Anyway, this one didn’t carry quite the charm of the first book.
I found the characters quite judgemental in this one and not as likeable.The first half of the book was pretty slow going, but I really liked the way the mystery came together and wrapped up.
Trixie Belden is a gripping book that will grasp your attention.
It is about two girls, Trixie and Honey, who follow some shady characters, to crack the code and solve the mystery.
in the process they stumble across an interesting boy and long to see him again.I liked it because it was extremely interesting, plus it was an intense mystery that was drawn out throughout the book so the suspension builds up page after page.
I would suggest that you read this book if you like gripping mystery's to read and get lost in.
If you liked this book you will like number 3 in the series.
