https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18194.The_Cyberiad
You can hardly believe that all these wonderful jokes and word-games weren't originally composed in English.
I wish I knew some Polish, so that I could compare with the original.The most impressive sequences, which have been widely quoted, come from the story where one of the inventors builds a machine that can write a poem to any specification, no matter how bizarre.
"A poem about love, treachery, indomitable courage, on the subject of a haircut, and every word to start with the letter S!" says his friend.
And within a few seconds, the machine has produced:Seduced, shaggy Samson snored.She scissored short.
If you're only going to read one Lem in your life......seek medical help.
There are several essential Lem books and stories.And this is one of them.
It's an essential Lem book of essential Lem stories.The basic outline is simple: two robot inventors (they are robots and they invent robots...
The inventors--friends, rivals, and each the only one capable of understanding the other's genius--are Nasrudin-like figures, both wise and fools, both creating problems and solving them, meeting common (robot) folk and uncommon (robot) world leaders.
If Mullah Nasrudin were two space-travelling robot inventors....Yeah, that's the book.Read it.And btw, it's hilarious, it's a quick read, and it's really easy to get ahold of.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.The Laws of Thermodynamics: "The Cyberiad Stories" by Stanislaw Lem(Original Review, 1980)Some people’s complaint about "The Hitchiker's Guide to the Galaxy" is reminiscent of a friend's complaint about Stanislaw Lem's "Cyberiad: Tales for a Cybernetic Age". He thought it was just a series of disconnected tales that were "everything that sf is ridiculed as being", petty, and demeaning. Then one day I snuck up on him and read him the start of the story on Dragons and Probability, and he burst out laughing.
Not only did this book make me want to read everything that Lem has ever written, it also makes me want to buy everything Michael Kandel has ever translated.One of the saddest things about becoming an adult is growing bored with most of the stories you loved as a child - the Jatakas, the Panchatantras, folk stories. Finding the Cyberiad is like rediscovering your childhood love of fables. This is a book I'm going to be coming back to many many times.
3.5 stars. My first experience with Stanislaw Lem and it will certainly not be my last. The stories are very good (some are brilliant), but I believe they work better in small doses rather than one after the other. Nonetheless, a gifted writer.
Most science-fiction fans will gladly preach the gospel of the European sci-fi authors, and Lem is unquestionably a great among them, in no small part due to The Cyberiad.
While fans of hard sci-fi may find the ridiculous, operatic, humorous, pseudo-scientific stories pretty much revolting (though I doubt it), no one can deny the uniqueness of his worldbuilding (surprisingly deep, for nonsense) or the fabulous anti-hero, Trurl.I feel terrible not being able to give more, in case someone hasn't read it, but it would not be right to reveal the glory here.
I first came across Stanislaw Lem by way of an absolutely fantastic book called The Mind's I: Fantasies and Reflections on Self and Soul in which three of his short stories were featured.
For those readers that have read The Neverending Story, picture the story telling style contained within that book(the randomness and seeming inexhaustible supply of non sequiturs and incidental information) in a science fiction setting written by Douglas Adams on acid.
It wasn't until over half way through the book before the stories started incorporating a more serious philosophical underbelly.
Stanislaw Lem departs from his occasionally dour disposition (see: Solaris) with a series of very funny but also deeply philosophical "journeys" of a pair of Cybernetic engineers (Trurl and Klapacius).
Each journey is a short story that stands alone, yet the whole collection is a complete consistent work.
In one of the stories, Klapacius challenges Trurl to construct a machine that can create anything that begins with the letter N.
In another, a poetry machine creates an epic love poem all in the language of tensor algebra.It's hard to over-recommend this wonderful work.
But, after I read the book, I was amazed.
Still one of the funniest books I have ever read.
Two competing robots (Trurl and Klaupacius) who try to out-invent each other, create some of the most wild constructs that anyone could ever imagine.One being the machine Trurl creates that can make anthing that starts with the letter 'N'.
Things really get wild when Klaupacius tests the machine by asking it to create 'nothing'.But my favorite was the three story tall calculating machine.
And the machine is quite definative about it's answer too.
I got to page 112, but honestly this is just not my thing.
I loved Memoirs Found in a Bathtub, but somehow the circular storytelling employed in very short stories gets very repetitive.
It smacks of Phantom Tollbooth or Hitchhiker's Guide, and these are just not my thing.
Sorry, guess I'm going to lem* it.
I was supposed to be on a podcast about it, but that's not going to happen!I imagine that engineers really like this book though.*lem - term coined by Sword and Laser readers to describe abandoning a book, originally chosen for the masses abandoning Memoirs Found in a Bathtub.
Read this at least 5 times. Probably the best book (at least in its genre) I've read. Extremely funny and witty. With all the made up words and rhyming poems etc. must have been a nightmare to translators (I read the Finnish translation). I only wish I knew Polish so that I could read this in the original language.
Another masterwork of this brilliant writter.Obviously i have read this work in spanish because this
Lem makes his money off word play if The Cyberiad is any indicator, and how in the hell someone was able to work that in a polish to English translation is amazing.2.
The story about the machine that makes poetry has a nice satirical spice.
However, even if you don’t get the humor, the allegorical nature of the stories usually delivers a payoff.
I found that the word play and exposition of each story usually dragged a bit, but once the conflict was established, the stories were very engaging, the lessons thought provoking, if perhaps a bit dated.
The Cyberiad is a nice little rip.
It's a lot of fun and a whole lot more accessible than some of his other work (such as Memoirs Found in a Bathtub that inspired the "lemming" of Sword & Laser infamy) and I think it would appeal to even those who aren't die-hard sci-fi fans.In addition, I've got to say this is one of the most phenomenal pieces of translation I've come across in a long, long time.
Which is rather daring, but that's really the only way this sort of book could ever be translated.There's more than a few OCR errors through out but it's not NEARLY as bad as the other Stanislaw Lem books I've bought so I guess they at least ran this particular volume through spell check.
Ingenious.As for Sally 1A, isn't it a bit bizarre that a robot builds the ultimate poetry machine, and that all the other robot poets are shamed by it?
Considering it says, rather specifically, that machines cannot write verse (in that they have no soul, I believe it was--this was rather a lot of sallies ago)?
Which is an interesting discussion point on the difference between robot and machine.Overall, a masterpiece of science, mathematics, imagination, philosophy, theology, satire, robotkind, and humankind.
An epic of the future, if Odysseus were a robot.
I lost interest after the writing structure started to become more and more ridiculous and hard to read/understand.
By trying to be creative, it basically seemed like he used a math or science term and added a couple letters to the end of it to make it sound latin.
The chapters that did not have this sort of writing were far more bearable to read and enjoyable.Summary: All in all, this was a giant disappointment.
It seemed interesting enough at first, but the farther and farther I got into the book, the less I wanted to read it.
Have you ever wanted to hug a book and kiss its cover, reserve a special place on your bookshelf so you can look forward to reading it again?
This is a unique book.
It's funny and smart philosophical science fiction, which isn't for everyone, but if you fall into that demographic, it's the archetype.
I've had it on my 'to read' list for a long time, but bumped it up after listening to a podcast interview with David X.
It's a rare thing for something to be fun and thought-provoking at the same time.
Easy, fantastic read, all the more impressive since it was originally written in Polish.
Est-ce que la traduction a amoché le recueil ? Dans mon souvenir, lire chaque nouvelle était fastidieux, dans une plus ou moins grande mesure...Dommage, parce que les thèmes ont de quoi intéresser :L'appétit de savoirLes probabilitésLa robotique...Le tout dans un univers futuriste aux accents de moyen-âge plutôt uniques !Parents de papier :H2G2 The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy - Douglas Adams
restrictive poetic math joke - translated fluidly into English.
Not explicitly stated until later in the book but every character is a robot(view spoiler)[, save a single (human?) on the second last page (hide spoiler)].
Confirmation later that this is in *our* universe (reference to the Crab Nebula), but as to when, I can't exactly be so sure.Laughs abound, though as I said earlier a couple of the stories did run long, making it hard to get through.
Illustrations were great.Finally, though I'm sure other posters have done it, I need to share the math poem for you all.
I want to start off by saying that I rarely enjoy reading short fiction.
The fact of the matter is, the short story is fundamentally flawed and, as such, extremely difficult to write well.
And even fewer entire collections of stories.I found "The Cyberiad" to be one of those rare examples.
I actually cared about the two main characters, partly because they are likable, and partly because they are resident in each of the stories, so you get to know them.
As far as I'm concerned, this book should be required reading in every MFA writer's program in the United States.
Cybernetic fables, simultaneously very old and very new.
At his best, Lem is playful and wise in the manner of certain Calvino.
At his worst, he tales off into long strings of silly words and technobabble puns.
I even actually felt myself drawn a little closer to the characters, props and automata that they may well be.
Really, that's the main issue I had here: these really are fables more than stories, and as such it's difficult to really get close to the characters or narratives for the most part.
But fables have there place of course, and many of these are good ones.
There's a blurb on the back of the book comparing Lem to Borges, which is about right: there is a long section towards the end which is stories nested in stories nested in stories, one of which is a story about someone trapped in a labyrinth of dreams nested in dreams nested in dreams, and there's a story that is sort of a sillier, sci-fi version of Borges' story "The Immortals". What a comparison like that misses is just how silly and playful these stories are.
It starts off as a series of cute and amusing stories featuring ridiculously human robots. But soon, you realize you're reading and thinking, what is happiness?When you progress through the book, stories become longer and more involved.I really like the tension between Trurl and Klapaucius, who are both brilliant constructors and friends, but who compete against each other.
This is no doubt a masterpiece of literature. Not just in the Sci-fi genera but of books in general. The fun with the language cannot be compared to anything I have every read. Trurl and Klapauciaus will have you laughing the whole way through all their journeys.The Cyberiad is best read in sections as the the shtick can get old if consumed all at once.
A very lighthearted allegory about the foibles of enlightened human reason as represented by two peripatetic robots, Trurl and Klapaucius. Lem is at his best with the pseudoscientific wordplay. The translator (Michael Kandel) deserves high praise for unobtrusively maintaining the playful mix of references (scientific, philosophical, cultural, sexual, etc) in this English version.
Recommended for: mechanical organisms with a sense of humor in their tube brains and desire for cyber fairy tailsNot recommended for: palefaces with organic functions
So I had no expectations at all, which is a nice way to read a book.As I found out, it's a collection of fables, mostly centring around two robot constructors (in both senses - they are robots and construct robots) and their near omnipotent dabbling in a strange feudalistic, oppressive, robot universe.
Favourite bit was when all the robot armies keep plugging into each other's minds and getting more and more empathetic and philosophical rather than fighting:"In the meantime, to the thunderous accompaniment of fife and drum, both sides slowly got into position.
I love Lem’s longer works and came to “The Cyberiad” following classics like ‘Solaris’, ‘The Invincible’, and ‘His Master’s Voice’ . Sadly, I was disappointed with this selection. The stories, following two inventors, are at times clever and sometimes vaguely humorous, but neither of those qualities endeared me to them. The creation of a machine that can create anything that starts with the letter N was a high point, but it was pretty much downhill from there on.
Now I wonder why on Earth this book couldn't be a masterpiece of all the greatest science fiction in one's life time? May this be popular to the mainstream and shape the culture with wisdom, humors and altruism? or becoming the legend is too much to behold by the community that once used to discourage Stanislaw Lem because of his notorious insensible Communism reputation? I don't know the answers while being in awe by its utter brillience
Doceniam zabawę konwencją, doceniam humor, a przede wszystkim doceniam ubranie w lekką formę tak wielu poważnych wątków. "Cyberiada" niewątpliwie zmusza do myślenia! Z przykrością muszę jednak stwierdzić, że po raz pierwszy książka Lema tak mnie wymęczyła. Zważywszy na wyżej wymienione zalety, samą mnie to trochę dziwi. Podejrzewam, że problem tkwi w silnej stylizacji języka - dla mnie zdecydowanie ciężkostrawnej.
