https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5160.The_Heart_of_a_Woman
4.5 starsThis is the fourth volume of Maya Angelou’s autobiography, the title comes from a poem by Georgia Johnson:“The heart of a woman goes forth with the dawn,As a lone bird, soft winging, so restlessly on,Afar o'er life's turrets and vales does it roamIn the wake of those echoes the heart calls home.The heart of a woman falls back with the night,And enters some alien cage in its plight,And tries to forget it has dreamed of the starsWhile it breaks, breaks, breaks on the sheltering bars.”This volume follows from Angelou from 1957 to 1962, starting in San Francisco and covering Angelou’s time in New York working for Martin Luther King’s organization.
The Heart of a Woman is Maya Angelou's forth autobiography.
Her son, Guy, is all grownup now and their mother/son relationship is heartwarming.
She generously shares intimate details, so openly and honestly as per usual, which could be valuable life lessons on autonomy, relationships, and decision making for all women out there.__________
Maya Angelou's Autobiographies:
1) I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings.2) Gather Together in My Name.3) Singin' and Swingin' and Gettin' Merry Like Christmas.4) The Heart of a Woman.5) All God's Children Need Traveling Shoes.6) A Song Flung Up to Heaven.
This book is inspiring and reminds you that no matter what you are going through that it can be overcome.
Maya Angelou's writing is honest, poetic and REAL.
His skin the color of rich black dirt along the Arkansas river." The following lucid and eloquent quotes remind one to persevere in the face of all things opposing:"If I ended in defeat, at least I would be trying.
"The size and power of our adversaries were not greater that our capabilities"(74).The writing of the venerable Maya Angelou is forever an inspiration.
I have to say, of all of Maya Angelou's biographies I've read so far, this is my least favorite.
The pacing felt a bit off and themes changed too abruptly.
I loved some parts of it, like the Billie Holiday story, or the time she confronted a white woman who came to watch her play but couldn't bear to think about her actions in the real world.
I also loved how she depicted her mysoginistic lovers, and the way she reacts to them.
I just felt that the sum of the parts wasn't as satisfactory as the parts on their own.
The Heart of a Woman is a memoir by Maya Angelou, so far the only memoir of her that I have read and I understand she has written several of them.
The events Maya describes in this book take place between 1957 and 1962 and in that sense this book is a continuation of her previous memoirs.
Let’s just say that many people have written memoirs and while many of them may be interesting to read, only a few of them can really be considered literature.Years ago, I found a quote by Maya that really moved me but instead of looking her up immediately, I decided to wait.
She takes a leading role in Genet's The Blacks, with a notable cast (including Godfrey Cambridge, Roscoe Lee Brown, James Earl Jones, Cicely Tyson, Raymond St. Jacques, and Lou Gossett).In her personal relationships with men, she finds herself torn between a New York bail bondsman she was intending to marry and newcomer South African freedom fighter named Vusumzi Make, who sweeps her off her feet - she moves with him, via London, to Cairo.
The most powerful relationship in Maya's life remains that which she had with her son who is becoming a man.
I really didn't like this book, which surprised me since I remember really liking "I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings." Her life is interesting, no doubt, but I found the book to be trite, unnatural and self-indulgent. The dialogue and general intereactions between characters was not convincing, which I find disturbing considering that this is not a work of fiction.
This is the final book in this series.
In this book her son is 15 years old.
The have moved a lot for work on various jobs.
You could feel her fear as a mother for her son.
They moved to Cairo and she had to fight for her right to get a job.
She moved to Ghana with her son so he could attend college in Africa.
It amazed me that at the end of the book, after all she had fought for and endured, the most important thing was her son and being a mother.
A slice from some years of Maya Angelou's life.Angelou juggles raising a kid alone, working in showbiz, navigating relationships--serendipitously, she falls into black activist work through which she'll meet MLKjr, Malcolm X--she'll marry a South African activist and move with him and her son to Cairo--become an editor of a weekly newspaper there--Angelou's life beats in strong clear waves---she was a singer, an artist, a writer, a poet, an actor, an organizer, an activist, a mother---How sobering that she died last year and virtually no progress seems to have been made on so many fronts she fought...
Read this riding my 'I know why the caged bird sings' high. What struck me as the most different - and the most disappointing - part of this book was that it read more as a chronology.Really exciting things happening in her life and the world at this time, but didn't have the same story-telling charm as caged bird.Like it none the less.
In as much as she paints Martin Luther King Kr. as strong, principled and passionate and Malcom X as bold and composed, Maya Angelou fought the battle as much.Since late 19th century, racism and slavery were being fought against.
From public speeches, negotiations, stand-offs, riots and petty encounters that should not have been waged if only for idiocy and hypocrisy of some people.The hegemony of whites was appalling because it exploited the blacks - took them their rights, their freedoms.
For Maya, it's not that blacks and whites are humans too, both equally capable of hurting and getting hurt, and that they might have lived differently.
For Maya, in this battle it is being mother that she can free herself.
At the part where the producer said he wouldn't pay for the songs for the play because Maya and Ethel 'just sat down at the piano and made it up' I nearly screamed WHAT THE HELL DO YOU THINK COMPOSERS ACTUALLY DO?Maya's writing is amazing - so good - lean and evocative. I don't actively go in for autobiographies but I will be looking out for her other books for sure.
Fourth volume of Angelou's biography. Very good. Her adventures in Africa.
Utterly captivating. As usual, Maya is able to draw us into her adventurous life. Her writing allows us to immerse ourselves in the roller coaster of her emotions. I love her writing and story-telling and could read her again and again.
Angelou writes about her involvement in the American Civil Rights Movement as well as her time living in South Africa as the wife of a South American Civil Rights leader.
I love Maya Angelou; she's one of my heroes and all-time favorite poets.
I love how frankly Angelou discusses her romantic relationships and sex in her memoirs, and this one was no different.
I really enjoyed reading Angelou's account of her relationship with Make, the South African Civil Rights leader.
Angelou's writing is captivating, and you feel like she is speaking directly to you while you read these memoirs.
In this book she moves with her son Guy to New York and works for Martin Luther King Jr as a manager.
Then she gets married to an African freedom fighter who's over petitioning the UN, moves to Egypt, the dude can't manage his finances so she gets a job as an associate editor at a newspaper (with no journalistic experience in a country where women don't work).
She moves to Ghana, talks about civil rights and the protest march she organised to Malcolm X when he visits, and ends the story with her son hit by a car with a broken neck, arm and leg.
I waited entirely too long to read this book!
This book is so rich in the History she shares of her accounts of The Harlem Renaissance era, working with Dr. King and the Literary Writer's Guild she was part of.
Not to mention the pearls of wisdom and cherished insights she shares as a woman and mother who has experienced and endured much.
I am thankful for this treasure she's left behind and know it will be a book now added to my "Read Again" shelf.
This is the fourth in the series of autobiographies by Maya Angelou, one time stripper, dancer, singer, actress and letterly American poet laureate.
I have read the first three and look forward to reading the fifth and final episode.
Angelou is frank about her mistakes and her successes and how she rose from being a child brought up in the American south during the days when black people and white people lived entirely separate lives.
In this volume, she has started to find her feet as a writer and also becomes involved in the fight for racial equality in the 1960s.
I literally started and kept reading. Angelou is one courageous, outrageous woman. And this portion of her autobiography covers the late 50's and early 60's, a tumultuous time in this country with a great deal of similarity to the unrest we're currently living through, though the presenting issues seem different. (I'm not so sure they are, and the characters and mindsets seem the same to me.) For anyone who's interested in a creative life lived at full throttle, and/or who has questions about what it was like to be an activist in the 60's, this is a grand must read.
Absolutely gripping, fabulously written, heartbreakingly honest. This book grabbed me by the throat and held on. Angelou lived in interesting times and writes about both personal and societal turmoil. She makes her experiences accessible and does not flinch from the difficulties that she faced (and overcame). Cameo appearances by famous people felt like a cool scene in a movie rather than mere name dropping. Watch for James Earl Jones, James Baldwin, plus meetings with Martin Luther King, Jr., and Malcolm X. Highly recommended.
This was my first book by the indomitable Miss Angelou, but it won't be my last.
She was incredible, with writing to rival her personality.
This memoir focuses primarily on the time of her life when she was in a relationship with a South African civil rights activist who tried to mold her into the perfect African (rather than African-American) wife.
Her spirit, work ethic, & sense of justice are all on full display as she struggles to be the perfect wife while also remaining an activist, a mother, a writer, an independent working woman, & a proud, justice-seeking Black woman.
Incredible. I've always loved to read the memoirs of interesting people, and Maya Angelou was, in my opinion, one of the most interesting people in the history of America. She fought hard for what she believed in, she loved hard, and she should be an inspiration to us all. To top off all of the interesting events in her memoir, her writing style flows beautifully, making this very hard to put down.
Really enjoyed this volume of Maya Angelou's autobiography. Her writing is truthful and beautiful. I felt that I could relate to her as she discovered more about herself through her life experiences. Her depiction of her romantic relationships with the men she encountered at that point in her life, spoke to me as a woman forging a life for herself that is autonomous.
When I think her life can't get crazier, she marries a freedom fighter and moves to Egypt. Maya, you amaze me. <3Love it, love her. Although I really love Vivian Baxter - she is iconic, somehow. Will try a method of WWVBD for the next few months (should be epic).
I was not expecting an autobiography to be so engaging but that it was! I can't wait to read the other five books.
loved book
This is my first work of Maya’s to read and it got me thinking why I waited for so long.
There’s a mix of her being a loving mother, a learning daughter, a wife to men with very different ideologies about life, a struggling singer, a great worker and so much more that makes her a woman.
If you are a young reader as I, you will end up thinking of getting their bios as well.
Oh and i loved that the ending made me laugh despite everything.
A 4.5 on my end.
In my lifetime of reading, how have I avoided reading Maya Angelou?
My image of Maya Angelou is that regal black woman reading the poem at Clinton's inauguration in that strong, commanding voice.
I'm told that I started in the middle of her life and now I have to go back and read from the beginning with "I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings." OK - here I go.
If you haven't read Maya Angelou's life stories (I think there are 5 autobiographical books), get going.
Angelou is bold, funny, vulnerable, and human. The way she opens up and tells her story, including triumphs and failures, makes me trust every word she says. The way she built community wherever she went makes me miss a time I wasn't apart of. I appreciate this book for the lessons I gleaned from it. Be bold, try, fall in in love, say when you've had enough, look out for folks, and know the folks who will look out for you. The writing is smooth, easy to glide through. Angelou's writing is a rich history of names, dates, and times.
Un bouquin sublime qui nous éduque autant qu'il nous charme. Les faits historiques sont là, et les sentiments décrits sont carrément une valeur ajoutée qui nous sommes envie de sauter dans les rues militer encore et toujours.
