https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14569052-purple-hibiscus
I felt so oppressed reading the book but then I realized that was her genius.
She never said the word oppression.
For the first two-thirds of the book, she never described pain, but all the details made me feel like something was terribly wrong not just at home but also in the country.
I loved the auntie because I wanted to be like her.
I hated the father more, but he was speaking truth for the country against the leadership and he fed so many people and he loved his family the best way he knew how, kind of.
Wonderful book... Among the top 20 that I've signed as editor...
At times he behaves like a Crusader, defending the faith of his own children by resorting to cruelties, which seem totally incompatible with the parental affection, which he always professes after inflicting a terrible punishment.Aunty Ifeoma, Eugene’s widowed sister, lives and teaches at a university in Nsukka.
As the political situation impinges more on Eugene’s life, the environment and atmosphere in his sister’s home in Nsukka becomes increasingly appealing to Kambili, as does the prospect of seeing Father Amadi.
Ho conosciuto Kambili e suo fratello Jaja, due adolescenti vittime di un padre a suo modo grandioso, e anch’egli vittima: vittima di una religione nera, ottusa, chiusa, cieca, violenta, asfissiante – è difficile conoscere una persona che intreccia bene e male in modo così stretto, entrambi frutto della religione, di quella cattolica, ovviamente.Manifestazione a favore della Repubblica del Biafra.Poi, per fortuna ho conosciuto anche la sorella del padre, la zia Ifeoma, un altro personaggio molto affascinante, con la sua nidiata di cuccioli d’uomo (Amaka, Obiora e il piccolo Chima, così teneri, così saggi, così vicini allo spirito delle cose, all’anima della terra e della vita).
When Kambili and Jaja go to spend a week with their aunt and her children, they begin to see their father for what he is, and everything changes.Adichie’s writing is engaging from the very first page, and as Kambili and Jaja’s story goes on, it becomes difficult to watch but impossible to look away.
That it was a debut is simply incredible.From Inbox/Outbox: December 19- http://bookriot.com/2014/12/19/inboxo...------------------------In Enugu, Kambili and her brother appear privileged.
A searing debut, Adichie’s attention to detail—flowers, cooking, music—distracts from the terror invoked by her father, Eugene, which widens eyes and skyrockets blood pressure.–Connie Panfrom Buy, Borrow, Bypass: Books by Virgos: https://bookriot.com/2017/08/28/books...
You can also read the full review here! She seemed so happy, so at peace, and I wondered how anybody around me could feel that way when liquid fire was raging inside me, when fear was mingling with hope and clutching itself around my ankles .  Purple Hibiscus is the first book by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie that I’ve read, but I can guarantee it won’t be my last. I loved this book so much and felt deeply connected to the characters and story. It was such an insightful and thought-provoking read, I
Purple Hibiscus is the first book by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie that I’ve read, but I can guarantee it won’t be my last.
Kambili, Jaja and their mother live in constant fear of Kambili’s father, Eugene, who is a religious zealot and rules over his family with the utmost authority, often resorting to mental and physical abuse.
But then, one day, Kambili’s aunt and her cousins come to visit and they end up convincing Eugene to let Jaja and Kambili spend a week at their house.
A father/husband who is physically abusive, extremely authoritarian, rigidly Catholic, yet extremely generous toward his community drives the action of the novel.
When his children, Kambili (the narrator) and Jaja, go to live with their aunt they witness and begin to experience autonomy.
But the book is not about the political scene, it is about the family, the changes the family goes through as they learn more about each other, and the changes that Kambili struggles with as she realizes she can hold her own opinions and make her own decisions.Adichie does a masterful job of presenting multi-dimensional characters in a realistic world.
Really good debut novel that is at heart a family drama, but also a look at race, politics, social unrest and religious fanaticism. I love Adichie's writing and the characters she creates here are memorable and believable. Highly recommend.
Aunty Ifeoma writes to her niece in Nigeria from America: There are people, she once wrote, who think that we cannot rule ourselves because the few times we tried, we failed, as if all the others who rule themselves today got it right the first time. It is like telling a crawling baby who tries to walk, and then falls back on his buttocks, to stay there. As if the adults walking past him did not all crawl, once. It is particularly appropriate to be reading this around the time of the presidentia
There are people, she once wrote, who think that we cannot rule ourselves because the few times we tried, we failed, as if all the others who rule themselves today got it right the first time.
It is like telling a crawling baby who tries to walk, and then falls back on his buttocks, to stay there.
As if the adults walking past him did not all crawl, once.
It is particularly appropriate to be reading this around the time of the presidential election in Nigeria, in which, for the first time in its history, the incumbent president conceded victory to his opponent in a peaceable transfer of power.
Perhaps it was so that we would not ask the other questions, the ones whose answers we did not want to know.” Purple Hibiscus tells the story of 15 year old Kambili.
There is a constant sense of tension throughout the pages of this novel, the characters are constantly repressing their feelings for fear of retribution…until the point when Kambili and her brother Jaja take a trip to visit their Aunt Ifeoma… Aunt Ifeoma is Eugene’s sister and she is aware of her brother’s religious zeal and tyrannical behaviour towards his family.
Yet another beautiful and honest story from Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie that hits you in the heart and stays with you for a long time to come.
This one is about a Nigerian family who has its secret.
However, as the story continues we realize that there is more behind the story than you think, and the horrible truth is heart-breaking and thought-provoking.
I really like Adichie's books because I find them educating and beautifully written.
Nevertheless, I simply adored this book, and I appreciate it for its simplicity and the impact it has made on me.
“From the beginning men used God to justify the unjustifiable.”  ----Salman RushdieChimamanda Ngozi Adichie, an award winning Nigerian author, has penned an immensely absorbing family drama in her literary fiction novel, Purple Hibiscus  where the author weaves the tale of a young Nigerian girl who belongs from a very rich and affluent family where the father of the family is a religious fanatic and used to torture his wife, his daughter and his son in the name of Christ if they commit a slight mistake, but when the young girl goes to live with her aunt during the military coup invasion, she learns ugly secrets about her not so perfectly religious family.Synopsis: Fifteen-year-old Kambili’s world is circumscribed by the high walls and frangipani trees of her family compound.
Toward the end of Purple Hibiscus, it occurred to me that the character of Papa could be a metaphor for Nigeria and Kambili, the sheltered, naïve young daughter of a wealthy businessman, the Nigerian people.
Just like Nigeria, that breaks the heart over and over with corruption and civil war, Papa is a force that cannot be stemmed without consequence.
There is domestic tension for fifteen-year-old Kambili and her older brother Jaja, who fear coming in second at school, for second simply will not do at home.

1977), um romance de excepcional qualidade, um livro que “queima” como água a ferver…Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie divide “A Cor do Hibisco” em quatro partes: “Quebram-se os Deuses – Domingo de Ramos”, “Falávamos Através do Espírito – Antes do Domingo de Ramos”, “Os Pedaços de Deus – Depois do Domingo de Ramos” e “Um Silêncio Diferente – O Presente”.A narradora é Kambili, uma rapariga nigeriana de 15 anos, filha de Eugene, um poderoso homem de negócios, um benfeitor generoso nas doações monetárias, um verdadeiro benemérito, um católico devoto, um fanático religioso, convertido por missionários europeus, propenso à violência familiar, com agressões sistemáticas à sua mulher Beatrice, ao seu filho Jaja e à própria Kambili.A Nigéria é um País fragmentado socialmente, um exemplo no Continente Africano, que serve de paradigma de como a tirania e a autoridade familiar, reflexo de um fanatismo religioso, neste caso, o catolicismo, acabam por dominar e interferir nas relações familiares, onde a subjugação económica e social, numa vivência cruel e violentamente dolorosa, assumem proporções inimagináveis.
The family home was full of the tension and silence that is born of fear.
In dealing with themes such a familial assault, political uncertainty, wealth, colonialism, religion, and morality, Adichie has created a book that is both specific and universal.
Her skilful writing and personal experience place the setting firmly within the book's Nigerian setting, but the examples and lessons she draws from human character have a far wider relevance.While reading other reviews, I noticed that many seem to suggest that this is the worst of her books.
If so, I say, brilliant...I already have both Half of a Yellow Sun and Americanah to read next.
Told by, and seen through the eyes of the main protagonist – the desperately shy fifteen-year-old Kambili, this is to some extent a coming of age story about growing up in a privileged family, experiencing violence at home along with all the complicated and complex emotions associated with that.
Again there is a feeling of authenticity and believability to this novel.Other important and broader themes central to the story of ‘Purple Hibiscus’ and covered well, focus on religious oppression and its associated divisions, the clash between the old and the new, the traditional and the modern, sin and retribution, the divisions within family and in society, privilege and disadvantage – maybe the main theme is just that – division and the struggle for reconciliation?
3.5 starsThere is something unique yet familiar about this coming of age story.Kambili and her brother Jaja grows up in luxury with a highly respected father during a time period where Nigeria is under military reign.
well maybe not the Aku (termites)The story is told from the viewpoint if Kambili and she came across as both naïve and world weary.The ending felt a little abrupt for me but overall I think it’s a worthy addition to the YA genre that will expose western readers to the charms of Nigeria but also show that we all have the same hopes and fears.As a side note the author’s TED talks are amazing and highly recommended.
Chimamanda Ngozi Adiche combined Nigerian politics, religion, cuisine, traditional believes and industry in such a way that neither of the elements overshadowed the story of the fifteen-year old Kambili and her family.
Although her father was religiously rigid, physically, mentally and emotionally abusive to the family, especially Kambili's mom, Adiche still showed his softer side of him caring for so many hundreds of people either openly or anonymously.
Her wealthy industrialist father uses religion to suppress and abuse his family, like so many millions of other people in the world who do the same thing.Kambili experiences love and abuse from the same person, she experience intellectual stimulation as well traditional believes and learn how to cope with it all through the different family relationships.
3.5 starsKambili is fifteen, living at home with her brother, Jaja, her mother and her father, a wealthy businessman.
Their home life though affluent and seemingly stable is an unhappy one with Kambili, Jaja and their mother walking on eggshells, living with the physically and emotionally abusive father, a religious, fanatical tyrant.
The drama plays out within the family with the political strife set in the background.Perhaps because I've had too many encounters in my life with fanatical, religious hypocrites this story didn't sit too well with me.
As laughter.”This debut novel by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie is full of expressive prose just as brilliant as this one uttered by Kambili upon her return visit to the one place that gave her a voice and a chance to understand what life could really be outside the judgmental and abusive authority of her religiously fanatic father, Eugene.
They had to be.” When Kambili and Jaja leave their parents to stay for several days in Nsukka with Aunty Ifeoma, Eugene’s forward-thinking sister and university professor, they finally get a taste for what it is like to be out from under the strain of their father’s watchful eye.
Es una de esas historias que carecen de un "argumento" propiamente dicho porque lo que más importa de esta historia es el desarrollo de los personajes y el contexto en el que se lleva a cabo.Nos cuenta la dinámica y rutina de una familia que tiene a la cabeza a un fanático religioso: las exigencias y ritos obligatorios, los castigos que les impone si lo desobedecían, el excesivo autoritarismo y la sumisión de su esposa.
Left me in tears. It's great to read a book and be reminded of the reasons you love to read. Can't wait to read more Adichie.
I love the story and how the family interacts with each other is so interesting.
I find this pretty inappropriate and distracting since this entire book is based on a young girl of color and her family.
Because of this, I felt I was unable to connect to the story as well.
Not to mention all of the intense swallowing and gulping that was happening.
It sounded like she was having to take long breaks throughout where she would just gulp down a huge swig of water.
I was pretty surprised and disappointed by this.
I could feel with the characters and understand the worl in which Kambili lived.The story itself was very interesting and moving as it showed the lives of a very religious and rich family in Nigeria from the viewpoint of the young daughter, who seemed a lot younger than she actually was.
During the course of the story we understand why that is and we also look behind the religious and good facade of the father.For me this book wasa coming of age story that also included the historical and political context into the personal life of the family.I can highly recommend this book to everyone who loves to read about characters and their coming of age.The only thing I am not quite happy with is the ending, it feels off a little bit, but not totally impossible or far fetched.
Chimamanda Adichie is one of those rare writers who has a gift for seeing as much as for writing.
Her prose is evocative yet precise, and the story is carefully structured and well-paced.
The most striking aspect of this novel, though, is the nuance of the characterizations.
The main characters are all multi-layered, with aspects of their personalities revealed a little at a time, quietly, resulting in a picture that is rich and real.
Adichie has a way of making you look twice at small details with a subtle yet revelatory emphasis.This isn't a story of absolutes.
However, this is certainly NOT how his family see him, and when his hidden abuses turn more and more violent this book took some shocking turns.Trigger warning for Violence, Domestic Abuse, Abuse, TortureI have to say I think that Chimamanda writes beautifully in all of her books, but the way she managed to draw me into Kambili's emotions and headspace so quickly was very enticing.
Even with the faster pacing than some of her other stories though, Adichie has still managed to keep me reading and really develop the characters and plot together.
Set in 1980s Nigeria Kambili, the protagonist of the story, is coming of age in an oppressive household and a dictatorial military regime.
Chimamanda writes of abuse and violence through Kambili's father and the military regime, of the effects of colonialism and the erasure of traditional beliefs and systems and the conflicts that exist because of it.I think this was such a good and bold debut, especially considering Chimamanda was just twenty six when this book was published.
I also think that some places were a bit overwritten and had a lot of descriptions but I grew fond of all the characters in the story, in their humanity and their losses.
Kambili's father Eugene is a complex character; one the one-hand he is a humble philanthropist, a man who cares deeply about the society around him, about helping others, however from the start there a streak of self-hatred in his selflessness; a sense that his desire to help is in fact a colonial desire to civilise, to rescue his countrymen from their barbarity, his outward confidence a mask for the deep-seated insecurities which plague him, causing him to tyrannise his family, to treat his pagan father with a callousness which can only be a product of religious fervour, a man obsessed with dogma and, paradoxically, for all the outward showings of humility, his own ego.
See my full review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ea4G5...
