https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/278275.Mr_Happy
I do like Mr Happy: he gets what’s important.
As John Lennon once said: “When I was 5 years old, my mother always told me that happiness was the key to life.
When I went to school, they asked me what I wanted to be when I grew up.
I wrote down ‘happy’.
They told me I didn’t understand the assignment, and I told them they didn’t understand life.” Mr Happy knows.
Listen to Mr Happy.
He’s got the right outlook, optimism pure and simple.
It gets him through the day; it gets him through life.
So why not try it?
The Mr. Mr. series is absolutely splendid works for kids! Especially small ones. They are hilarious and cute and have wonderful little morals! Mr Happy was one of our favourites!
My son has been obsessed with smiley faces since an early age.
Smiley face balloons, balls, stickers, shirts...
all things smiley rate way high for my Sam. This water tower has fascinated him for a few years now:I blame all this joy on the anti-depressants that must have seeped into my breast milk.Whatever the case, he's a super happy kid that loves a good smiley face.His first encounter with the Mr. Happy books happened to be...
While I feel it's silly to give this book (and entire series) a 5-star, "it was AMAZING" rating, I have to.
Mr. Happy has enough happiness for Mr Miserable as well. One day exploring his world, he finds a little down with stairs down to a dreary basement with the most miserable person in the world. Mr. Happy invites him up to his house to be happy. What I like is that Mr. Happy is willing to let Mr. Miserable take his time and get better. It was gradual and Mr. Happy didn’t rush him in the story. Mr Miserable did become happy.My nephew loved this story. Yeah. Great series.
This pursuit of happiness is the meaning of life, the always just-out-of-reach goal for humans the world over.Mr. Happy, the fourth member of the Mr. Men family, is in a state of perpetual happiness.
He displays no obvious trappings of wealth or success, no enviable family from which he may derive some kind of pride or worth and offers no insight, wisdom or religious beliefs.Happy, we are told, lives in a land called "Happyland" in which all the people, the birds, even the worms are happy.
Folks, if you are feeling miserable - and even if you're not - go read this Mr. Happy book, because it will cheer you up! :D Favourite lines:"Why are you miserable?" asked Mr. Happy."Because I am," replied Mr. Miserable.Isn't that the answer we give most people when we're miserable?! ;)Anyway, go read it if you have it!
My 6 year old niece and I loved this one. Mr. Happy is ever so positive and happy, so how could we not love this story.
My children and grandchildren have all loved the Mr men books by Roger Hargreaves.Always a pleasure to read these stories to the children.Recommended.
I think a copy of Mr. Happy ought to be in every home, every school, every neurotherapist's and every psychotherapist's office. It is a most delightful book about someone who is happy, someone else who is miserable, and how the one who had been so miserable ends up becoming happy very easily. And even though this little fiction book doesn't bring up science at all, what it has illustrated is in fact what is true about our brains.
This book is Stephen King's best yet. The gore is fantastic, the horror is real and you can really feel the character's pain. The torture sequences in particular are fantastic reading. Amazing fiction. Five stars
A short children's story that teaches them how smiling and laughing are contagious :D
Turning that frown upside down 6 December 2017 - Sydney Now I happen to be sitting in the Virgin Australia lounge waiting for my plane to depart (and also bashing on the 'm' key that is being incredibly stubborn). As such I thought it might be an opportunity to read another one of my Mr Men books, and the one that jumped out just happened to be Mr Happy (well, I had been intending on reading this one for a while, but I really started getting sick of lugging my laptop around Sydney). However whil
So, I have also noted that this is the third of the series written, and it does show considering that the only other character in the book is Mr Miserable, who pretty much looks like Mr Happy except that he wears a perpetual smile.
Well, since this is a Mr Men book, and not something written by H.P. Lovecraft, we can safely assume that Mr Happy is not going to be putting his life (or his sanity) in danger by investigating the door.
Buku ini adalah hadiah yang diperoleh jika anda membeli paket Happy Meal di McDonald's Indonesia di bulan November 2017.Kisahnya tentang Mr. Happy yg hidup di Happyland yang kemudian bertemu dengan Mr. Miserable yang tinggal di bawah tanah dalam sebuah pohon, sehingga anda perlu menuruni anak tangga putar yang begitu banyak sebelum sampai ke pintu rumahnya yang berwarna merah.Ketika mengetahui Mr. Miserable yg selalu bersedih ini ingin merasakan kebahagiaan, Mr. Happy mengajaknya ke Happyland, dimana akhirnya Mr. Miserable yang selalu merengut ini akhirnya bisa tersenyum dan akhirnya tertawa terbahak-bahak.Di halaman terakhir pengarang buku ini menginformasikan ke adik-adik pembaca, bahwa jika mereka merasa sedih seperti Mr. Miserable dulu, yang mereka harus lakukan adalah melengkungkan sudut bibir mereka ke atas.Yang tentu saja informasi yang salah.Seperti kita lihat Mr. Miserable menjadi gembira setelah dia keluar rumah untuk bersenang-senang ke tempat lain.Jadi adik-adik, jika kamu merasa sedih, segeralah minta ke ayah ibumu untuk pergi jalan-jalan, ke luar kota, menginap di rumah hotel, atau ya paling tidak pergi ke mall atau taman kota.
A2 wanted a bedtime story tonight, A1 didn't--so, while A1 was pestering Gramma Patsy, I read A2 her picked out book (Mr. Happy), along with another story, "Jack's Bean Problem" from The Stinky Cheese Man and other Fairly Stupid Tales".
Aleyda said she liked "Mr. Happy" better than "Jack's Bean Problem".
Anyway, this is a story about Mr Happy (who is fat, round and happy), a place called Happyland (must have legalized marijuana some time ago), smiling mice, cats, dogs, and even a worm, and of course the supporting character of the story, Mr Miserable (who must have just found out his real cost of the "Affordable Care Act", passed by a congress that didn't have time to read the bill before they passed it, and now has an approval rate so low that mathematicians haven't yet come up with a number to describe it).
My wife left me, and she also took half my income (Rocky divorce).
He was happy to sleep in the dog kernel, but nooooooo, apparently I cant choose where my own children sleep.
Whatever molusk of happiness that remained in my pitiful soul was slipping from my grasps, but the bright yellow hands of Mr Happy took charge, and grabbed it by the rhino horns.
The worlds that spilled from the piece of literature where more than just words, they were visions and images that painted a picture of a happy world for me.
All thanks to Mr Happy.
Ah, Mr Men and Little Miss, how wonderful you are!These books made up so much of my childhood. No matter what I would go ahead and pick one up. I worked my way through them all a couple of times. Each one has a wonderful story for the child to engage with, each character being fun to read. Everyone has a bias for their favourite character, yet every book is delightful.
I'm left confused and bewildered by how Mr. Miserable is so unhappy living inside a magical tree house...
Cute ^_^.. I keep reading children books these days, and I don't feel guilty about it, every time I finish a child book, I've this huge grin :D
ευχαριστο και διδακτικο για τα παιδακια
The book Mr Happy written by Roger Hargreaves tells the story of a character called Mr Happy, who lives in Happyland, a place where even the animals and flowers are happy.
Inside, Mr Happy meets someone who looks exactly like him but instead of smiling this person is miserable.
Mr Happy tells Mr Miserable to come and stay with him in Happyland.
Whilst staying in Happyland, Mr Miserable slowly but surely stops being miserable and begins to smile.
The simple stories and recognisable characters make this book and the other Mr Men and Little Miss books appropriate for use in reception and Key stage 1.
Rediscover the zaniest characters you've ever met in this best-selling series which has sold millions worldwide.
Bright and charming, with easily recognizable characters and a small take-along format, Mr. Men and Little Miss books are easy enough for young readers, witty enough for humor-prone adults, and highly collectible for one and all.
Also check your local listings to view the Mr. Men & Little Miss TV show."My Review: I really remember these books being so much more fun, but Munchkin doesn't seem to be getting into them.
I am hoping as Munchkin gets older he will start to enjoy these classics more.
Think I’m right in stating that as a boy I had all the pre-1990 Mr Men books with the possible exception of “Mr Snow”.
Although I’ve forgotten almost everything about this title and all the others I feel that owing to the amount of times I read each publication that they all deserve to be rated five stars.I’m grateful to Roger Hargreaves for brightening up my childhood with both his Mr Men and the Timbuctoo series of books.
My twin sister went away to collage a couple of days ago.
Now I'm cleaning our play room (something I would have done four years ago if I were able to get her to help me with it) and I found this book.
I remember once in preschool the teaches got a bunch of free books so all of the kids got to pick one out and she picked this one.
After I found it and read it again, I planed to give it to her but then I remembered that she won't be home for mouths.
A children's classic, that can be enjoyed with just as much pleasure today as when it was written in 1971.
I read the originals myself as a child in the early 70s and read them again to my children.
The illustrations are the type that will have children trying to draw the men themselves and achieving good results.
I'm wondering though what the "revised edition" means.
The 1997 edition is still currently being published in North America.
I have a feeling it may just have had "British-isms" removed but will have to find an early edition to compare someday.
Yet another tale of a walk in the woods, which leads to an adventure - my children are going to have great expectations of our next walk in some woods.Plot wise, this is paper thin, and frankly would have got a lower score but for the fact that my daughter was sulking at the time we read this, so when I substituted her name for Mr Miserable's it garnered large laughs. So the story reflected real life for once and turned the "frown upside down".The next time around reading it could prove deadly dull though...
Okay, I know this is kind of cheating, but I couldn't resist when I saw these books a Borders.
The Mr. Men and Little Miss books are making a comeback - and have tapped into the T-shirt market, too, I've noticed.
There's tons of these little books, and I think we read nearly all of them when my kids were little.
I highly recommend them!These books also make great gifts for little kids, they're just their size, like 5"x5".
I'm thinking that a few of my friends may be seeing these in their baby shower baskets...
Reading the Doctor Who/Mr. Men mashup books made me nostalgic for the Mr. Men of my childhood. I remember poring over the back cover contemplating which Mr.s (and Little Misses) I'd read and hoping my library would get the ones I hadn't. Pretty sure Mr. Happy was one of my favorites then, and I certainly found it to stand the test of time to still be pretty delightful now. Hee! I love the guys rolling around laughing at the end; such infectious happiness makes me smile every time.
I absolutely loved these Mr Men and Little Miss books. I remember getting them from my granny every week. There was so much from these simple characters, I remember filling my little bookshelf with all these books making sure I had got them all in right order. I wish I still had these books but somehow most of them got lost with many house moves or my mum gave the rest away. If I ever have kids, I will make sure they get the chance to experience these wonderful, colourful books.
I read the Mr. men and LIttle Miss books when I was a kid, but a recent trip to London rekindled my love of this classic series. Aside from Little Miss Sunshine, Mr. Happy is my favorite Roger Hargreaves book. Not only is it filled with page after page of a giant yellow smile, but it drives home the central philosophy that happiness is a choice. I've lived by that idea my entire life and I love seeing it in a children's book.
While he rarely pulls this one out of the bookcase (probably because it's too small), my 18mo really enjoys this one whenever I read it. There's a lot of repetition of some of his favourite words (round, up, down), plenty of laughter at the end, and bright, simple pictures. It gets my vote because he runs around the house saying "happy, happy" after reading it.
