https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76934.The_Clue_of_the_Screeching_Owl
Is this a great book? No. But it is the seminal book in my reading lifetime. It was the first "novel" I ever read. I showed up to the first day of the 1st grade with this thing in tow and read it when I had the chance. Ms. Emmerich even questioned me on it because she didn't think I was reading it. I read her several lines and told here what certain "hard" words meant. Been in love with reading ever since.
Another convenient mystery in which missing people carve their names into their torches, and suspects have identical twins. More like an episode of Scooby-Doo than a proper mystery, but kids might enjoy it. Plus, shock horror - Chet Morton didn't seem to have a hobby in this book!!!
This is the book that started a lifetime of reading
This shows teamwork because Joe is still alive by the end of the book, and if Frank and Chet hadn't worked together, then he would've surely drowned.
(END SPOILERS) Another example of this teamwork is when (SPOILERS), starting on page 119, Frank wakes up, and there's a fire raging through the cabin they are sleeping in.
This also shows teamwork because if Frank didn't wake them up, they didn't help each other get out, or if they didn't collaborate to find clues, the former two would mean that most likely, they would die in the raging infernos, and the latter one would mean that likely, they would never figure out who tried to end their lives.
(END SPOILERS) Both of these examples show teamwork and collaboration, as you can see.
The book Clue of the Screeching owl was a legendary mystery solved by the two teen brothers Joe and Frank Hardy and their friend Chet. The trio go out to the woods to look for missing dogs from and ancient legend called the hex. Apparently, the hex is back and the Hardy's want to figure out who's behind this. The Hardy's meet people along their quest but eventually find out that they are the people stealing the dogs. In the end, they find the dogs, and give them back to their owners.
I love a good Hardy Boys book. Although I prefer to read the versions that are before 1960, when they were all edited and changed. And there are no shiny new Hardy Books, or Nancy Drew book in my collection.
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
This series is great!This book is an amazing book belonging to the hardy boys franchise. It has mystery and action all perfectly articulated to the reader.
This one was a little uneventful for me. I did like the cabin in the woods though! Good setting.
A brief trip down nostalgia lane...like many kids the Hardy Boys mystery’s were a staple of my early reading career. This was a fun read.
This is my favorite book as a kid. My mother used to read this to me and my sisters. This is what got me started on actually reading The Hardy Boys series in order.
This is probably one of my least favorite Hardy Boys I have ever read.
The plot was fine, there was no problem with that, actually I enjoyed seeing where the TV episode came from that was based off this.
But what I did not enjoy was 1.
the three main characters interaction.
They were really rude to each other, and also they seemed to all be trying to outdo each other, instead of working together.
2. They kept putting the main characters in situations where clothing was scarce.
I really enjoyed the mysterious air of this book. Ever since the start, "paranormal" things start to happen. One such incident involves the boys' friend, Captain Thomas Mcguire, disappearing from his cabin almost without a trace. These types of incidents continue until the very end of the book, when you are brought to the startling conclusion- The dog did it! Nah, I'm just kidding, but if you really want to find out who the culprit of this incriminating activity is, I would surly check out this exiting and mysterious book that will have you tingling with excitement! (177 pages)
The classic boy detectives by Frank Dixon--I read ALL of them in my younger years, one I ran out of Nancy Drew books. The Hardy Boys, Frank and Joe, are brother amateur detectives, aspiring to follow in their famous father's footsteps.The two boys live in the fictional city of Bayport (on Barmet Bay) with their famous father, Fenton Hardy, a private detective formerly with the New York Police Department.
In this Hardy Boys book the stakes are high, with wild pumas and their crime involved masters. Frank and Joe go to visit their dad's friend only to find him missing, along with his dog and many others too. To figure out what has been happening with the dogs in Black Hollow and where they are the Hardy Boys must face terrifying races against time and death. If you enjoy a good heart thrilling mystery then I recommend this book and any of the other books in the Hardy Boys series.
Reading these Hardy Boys stories is like digging up a time tablet. So many forgotten childhood memories come to alive from every page we go through. How eagerly we read these books those days !!. Reminds me of a facebook post I saw recently, "If you have read Hardy Boys as a child, then you've had a wonderful childhood !!". So true...
This series always delivers.
Another great Hardy Boys mystery!!
This is one of my favourite Hardy Boys' mystery :-)
DIABOLICO AGGUATO
Just the cover wants to make you read this one. Another fun and enjoyable read with the hardy boys.
I don't remember this one at all, but I know from the cover I read it...
I think the Hardy Boy books helped me with learning deductive and inductive skills. I had to work through logic. Who knew? I enjoyed all these books.
My book has the same cover as shown in this listing but was published in 1990.
first one i read. got addicted!!! :)
it was breathtaking as all hardy boys
I loved Hardy Boys books as a kid. They were my first books over 80 pages long that I ever read ... well ok my dad read most of the first few to me, but they were the books that got me started.
Pretty good Hardy Boys book.
A childhood obsession, I can still recall the day I read an entire Haardy Boys book in one sitting.
Dixon, Franklin W.
