https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/580449.The_Resistible_Rise_of_Arturo_Ui
The Resistible Rise of Fascism in 2017“Art is not a mirror held up to reality but a hammer with which to shape it.” --Brecht1. Trump claims because he is famous he has premier access to any woman he wants; he can just grab her pussy or whatever he wants.2. Several women from his past claim sexual harassment.3. Trump denies all claims of above and commits to defund Planned Parenthood and other organizations devoted to women’s equality, at the same time claiming he “loves all women, and they love
Trump denies all claims of above and commits to defund Planned Parenthood and other organizations devoted to women’s equality, at the same time claiming he “loves all women, and they love me.”4.
Trump elected President (with a majority of white women voting for him, confirming for him and some others his claim in #3)5.
I was not at all worried at the time about the rise of fascism in this country, which was exactly Brecht’s point, that in the tradition of Sinclair Lewis’s It Can’t Happen Here, everyone smugly believed Hitler couldn’t happen here.
In nearly every case, I think it's better to read the original, even if my knowledge of the source language isn't particularly good: it means I'm hearing what the author actually said, as opposed to what the translator thought they said.
The humour of the play derives from the mixing of several different registers, of which the most important are Shakespeare's magnificent blank verse and the flat, vulgar speech of the Chicago underworld; even if these can be transposed to German (and Brecht gives it his best shot), they are essentially English in their nature.
A dark comedy on US gangsters. It is a powerful play in as far as it acts as an allegory of how a corrupt world creates monsters of violence in general. But I don't think it is a very powerful metaphor for particular case of Hitler (who seems to be refered directly in epilogue).
"Bada bing bada boom..."Considering how long ago Bertolt Brecht wrote this play, it sure packs a punch, and is still very valid.I wanted to read this as I'll be seeing a production by the Sydney Theatre Company shortly.
I don't make a habit of reading the plays that I'm about to see, as the element of surprise is always nice.
But I'd seen a production around twenty years ago, and it's one of those plays that gets under your skin, and has always stuck in my mind.Arturo Ui is a gangster with a vision.
Brecht, Arturo Ui nezdinde aslında Hitler'in yükselişini anlatıyor. Hitler'in Almanya'da iktidar oluş çabaları ve yaşanan olaylar günümüz Türkiye'siyle o kadar örtüşüyor ki şaşırmamak elde değil.
L'ascesa, chiaramente resistibile ma quasi indisturbata, di Arturo e della sua cricca parte dallo sfruttamento del malcontento e dei problemi dei capi del trust dei cavolfiori (gli Junker prussiani e gli industriali tedeschi) alla ricerca di prestiti statali, passa per la corruzione del politico Dogsborough (il cancelliere del Reich Heindenburg), in un crescendo di minacce, violenze, diffidenze interne che porteranno alla "conquista" di Chicago e della vicina Cicero, ma anche all'eliminazione fisica di avversari e amici pericolosi (Roma/Röhm, ovvero la notte dei lunghi coltelli).Lo scopo di Brecht è dichiarato, spiegare al mondo capitalistico l'ascesa di Hitler trasportandola in circostanze a quel mondo familiari, la rappresentazione deve essere in stile grandioso...naturalmente va evitata la pura e semplice parodia, e anche in chiave di grottesco non deve mai venir meno l'atmosfera di orrore.
3,5* | Ένα θεατρικό που, σύμφωνα με τον Μπρεχτ, γράφτηκε για να εξηγήσει στον καπιταλιστικό κόσμο την άνοδο του φασισμού και γι' αυτό τοποθετείται στο οικείο περιβάλλον ενός τραστ.
Εμένα βέβαια ακριβώς αυτό ήταν και το κομμάτι που με δυσκόλεψε -αγνοώ τους τρόπους λειτουργίας του καπιταλιστικού συστήματος της εποχής.
Σε κάθε περίπτωση, πρόκειται για μία σαφή αλληγορία που γίνεται ακόμη σαφέστερη από τις επεξηγηματικές πινακίδες που εμφανίζονται στο τέλος κάθε σκηνής.
Στην πραγματικότητα, είναι ένα βιβλίο που σε πρώτο επίπεδο μιλά για τη σταδιακή κατάληψη της εξουσίας από τον Χίτλερ, αλλά σε δεύτερο -και ουσιαστικότερο, θα 'λεγα- για το μέσο άνθρωπο που μπορούσε να αντισταθεί αλλά δεν το έκανε.
I read this close on the heals of a biography of Hitler and found that Brecht did a great job using this parable to show how the rise of Hitler came about. The epilogue is chilling:Therefore learn how to see and not to gape.To act instead of talking all day long.The world was almost won by such an ape!The nations put him where his kind belong.But don't rejoice too soon at your escape - The womb he crawled from is still going strong.
Jo vetem nga struktura e drames, por edhe nga permbajtja dhe angazhimi i skenave me njera-tjetren, nga forma se si shtjellohen dialoget, statusi i perkthimit dhe mbi te gjitha kompetencat e mendimit te thelle qe Breht sjell me kete drame.
Skena e mesimit te aktrimit, eshte skena me perfekte qe e ilustron kete fakt, jo vetem sepse nje personazh si Arturo Ui e ka pikasur, por edhe sepse paradoksalisht asnje tjeter, me i kultivuar nga morali dhe nga intelekti sesa Ui, nuk ka arritur ta shohe!
Ka kaluar nje kohe e gjate qe kur kam lexuar nje drame dhe e kam pelqyer kaq shume sa kete.
(See my review of the English translation)
I read this because I was obliged to, but I can tell I loved Brecht's parallelism.
Having read various biographies of Hitler, this was supposed to be no different, but instead this was definitely my favourite.
My personal favourite bit is when Ernesto Roma tells him (read it in Albanian so the following is my adaption) "Step on the world, but not on your same feet", inferring Ui's betrayal to him, as part of his own clique since the very beginning.
I liked how every character fitted perfectly into the real-life person's shoes and how it was so easy to make the whole book out.
I've never read any Brecht before, and he takes a little getting used to, if this is anything to go by.
A funny; both ha-ha and odd, parody of Hitler's rise to power, and more importantly the circumstances that allowed it, using an Al Capone stand in taking over the cauliflower business in Chicago.
Chilling, mechanical, smart, emotionally distancing, controlled, didactic, selective, political...there is a lot going on, even before noting that the play has Shakespeare references galore and is written blank verse.
It is a chilling and sadly relevant reminder of how easy it is to produce both the circumstances and monsters to drag us all to hell again.
Found it very hard to get into initially, I think it would be a lot easier in performance. It would function perfectly well on its own terms without any knowledge of what it is representing (Hitlet's rise), which I think is part of good theatrical allegory or metaphor.
not my kinda book

Brecht's comedic look at how Hitler came to rise. Hitler is in the form of Arturo Ui, a man who claims to be "for the people," especially those in the cauliflower trade. Ui does bad things and allows bad things to happen, but people doubt it could be him because he is interested in protecting "The common man."It is a serious look into what can happen if people don't learn their history.
Epik tiyatroya çok güzel bir örnek okuma oldu. Oyunun adı için "Arturo Ui'nin önlenebilir yükselişi " demek daha doğru olacak.
How stupid and ferocious these people could be.Another thing that I did not like about Arturo Ui was the silly introduction of cauliflower.Instead of mentioning Krupp, as an engine, a stimulus for the rise of the Third Reich, Brecht introduces …cauliflower merchants.I can understand that he could not give the proper names and here there is a subtle irony, but I just find it risible and bringing it into a note that I do not like.
Most of my favorite Brecht plays are those written while he was in a self-imposed exile from Germany following Hitler’s rise to Chancellor (1933), including The Life of Galileo, The Good Person of Szechwan, The Caucasian Chalk Circle, The Visions of Simone Marchard, and this play.
The dynamic time period, and his life in exile, seemed to focus Brecht and, in his better plays of this period, limited his odd theories about socialism (as in The Threepenny Opera).
The play in question presents the rise of Hitler as a Chicago gangster.
Based closely on real people (Hitler himself, of course, Goering, Rohm, Goebbels, Hindenburg) and real events (the Reichstag Fire, the Night of the Long Knives, the annexation of Austria), this replays the events of the early 1930s via a 'parable' (Brecht's own term) of Chicago gangsters, cauliflower sellers, protection rackets and the corruptions of self-interest.It may not be subtle or even intended to be so but it makes its points about resistance and complacency, about collusion and complicity with panache and theatrical flair.Blackly comic moments such as Hitler taking elocution lessons from a washed-up actor in order to hone his rhetorical appeal to the masses are balanced against shocking bursts of violence: the brief scene when a bloody woman stumbles out of a truck and flings herself towards the audience: "Help us!
Una lettura che non si può affrontare a cuor leggero, sia per il contenuto dell'opera ma anche per il genere teatrale che l'autore ha scelto.
L'opera teatrale appartiene al teatro epico brechtiano, dove lo spettatore/lettore rimane distante dagli avvenimenti narrati, sviluppa un pensiero critico e comprende che quella rappresentazione è una parabola della sua contemporaneità, solo sublimata in un'altra epoca e ambientazione.
Per chi vuole ripassare il teatro epico o per chi cerca un'opera che sia attuale tutt'ora, questa è quella giusta
To list a few, the parallels between the play and the rise of Hitler in the Weimar Republic are masterfully presented and very true to real historical events.
All Brecht's qualities like spass, the alienation effect, demonstration of characters and presentation to spectators are all present here.
But the best thing about it is what the title suggests, Arturo Ui's rise to power is SO resistible!
He isn't initially in power or even liked; at literally every point in his rise, if ONE person would just stand against him then he would never have made it to where he ends up at the end of the play.
Ein nicht zufassender Plot, welche sich schlussendlich als kongruent zu Hitlers Aufstieg herausstellt. Vorallem die wirtschaftlichen Hintergründe waren mir vorher unbekannt und der Zwang dem Hindenburg durch den Trick der Geschäftsleute ausgesetzt war.Die abschließende Bemerkung Brechts ist "to-read-again". Es wird erklärt wie wichtig es ist historische Größe zu dekonstruieren und vorallem bei Schlächtern nicht ihre Rücksichtslosigkeit in Betreff Menschenleben mit Strategie oder sogar Überlegenheit zu verwechseln. In diesem Sinne sehr gut gemacht, Bert.
For a book that I have to read for class it was very enjoyable. The idea of taking something something as huge as the nazi's rise to power and placing it in a setting of something so dull as the power of cauliflower selling. I particularly loved the epilogue "But do not rejoice too soon at your escape — The womb he crawled from is still going strong."
Hitler re-imagined as Chicago gangster. What else might you want?
I love Brecht, and I pretty much love all of his plays. Including this one.
Do you ever wonder what Hitler might be like as a Chicago gangster who monopolized the cauliflower racket? Me too.
Read, performed and watched in Ms. Gelfand's drama class
Educational microcosm and parody that describes the rise of Hitler as an American mobster transplanted to America and Chicago to help American audiences understand the growing threat in Europe.
I had to read what the different characters represented...and then I really enjoyed this!
