https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16312.One_Two_Buckle_My_Shoe
هل يمكن ان يكون الحل في ابزيم الحذاءرااائعة هذه العقليه البوليسية لاجاثا كريستي
A confusing story that gets more and more complicated until the end. The characters remain pale and the story is simple and unbelievable. Mediocre crime thriller. Even if it is very exciting, the story somehow can not really inspire me. This is not the best of Agatha Christie.
“Japp said curiously: “What are you trying to do–make the thing more difficult?”[Poirot:] “Exactly that.”Ok, so the first victim is a dentist and my dad is a dentist...
The solution was absolutely perfect, and when I enjoy the solution I retroactively enjoy the whole book even more (bottom line: I'm a weird girl.
The central part of the story -basically, the investigation- was a bit slow, I admit it, but the finale made it up for that, as far as I'm concerned.Moreover, One, Two, Buckle My Shoe is a Poirot book.
And if you're me, you really can't not like a Poirot book.
I loved Sheldon’s insane roundabout, amazing adventures with exotic and hardly-believable characters.
) read him, I shove a copy into their hands while eliciting ardent promises from them that would give it a chance.
Then, my strategy backfired on me, and I ended up with a copy of ‘One, Two, Buckle my shoe’ shoved into my hands.It is incredible how some amazing discoveries are made on a chance.
As soon as I began reading this, I was transported into what seemed like a set for one of those old, black and white British dramas.
Christie uses this fear to establish the character of the doctor.
Nervous about visiting the dentist, Poirot is relived that he won’t need another check-up for at lea
Choose Your Own Adventure!You Are Special, Perfect You. Did I Ever Tell You How Lucky You Are?
You Are Special, Little OneYou Don't Love Me Yet. Say You Love Me, Say You Need Me!
You Belong To Me; You Are Mine.
You Can't Win.Don't Look Behind You, If You Could See Me Now, I Will Wait for You: Eternal Bliss, Just For You. I'm Coming to Get You.And Then You Die....You Get So Alone at Times That It Just Makes Sense.Catch Me If You Can.If You Can't Catch Me, choose THIS PATH!If No One Belongs Here More Than You, choose THIS ADVENTURE!
Christie is very good even at her averagest.This one features Dr. Morley, a grumpy dentist, who is one of three people who all die in short order, including Miss Sainsbury Seale and Mr. Amberiotis.
One interesting feature of the series is that when Christie wrote the first one he was already retired, he was pretty old, but since the series became an international sensation, she had to continue, for literally decades.
The only reference to complicated political events at all in this book is in the form of diplomat Alistair Blunt, who is one of the Good Politicians, fighting for Right and Democracy against fascism.
He even imagines that one of the other patients in the waiting room looks like a murderer.
When he leaves the dentist, Mr. Morley (I notice Agatha Christie does not use the title "Dr.", his mood has improved and he reflects the patient he saw earlier was not a murderer but simply must have a toothache.“No, my friend, I am not drunk.
There is nothing like sitting down with a Agatha Christie mystery and trying to figure out who the murderer is.
This was a re-read for me, although this time I tried the audio version...somehow the story felt a bit outlandish to me, it was all going well but revelations at the end felt a bit too contrived...a little improbable. IDK, wasn't that impressed the second time around.
Es la primera vez que leo a la autora y la verdad es que por lo menos esta novela no es para nada mi tipo. Me gusta la novela policíaca, pero la mezcla del suicido con un montón de política, no me gustó para nada. Y siendo más sincera, fue para mí inevitable comparar esta novela con Mr Mercedes de Stephen King (última novela policiaca que leí) y la diferencia es abismal, la forma en que me atrapó la historia de King, no lo logró esta historia ni por asomo.Reseña Completa: http://bastvilard.blogspot.com.co/201...
3.5/5⭐Adoro a escrita da Agatha Christie, adoro as personagens dela. Este livro conta com o famoso Hercule Poirot. O livro e interessante, lê se bem, mas a certo ponto só quis avançar a leitura para saber o final!
I don't hate going to the dentist, at least, not like Poirot does. And that's where this book's murder takes place. Poirot follows a variety of clues and misdirections surrounding the death of his dentist, Mr. Morley. There are numerous conflicting details, and Poirot being Poirot, eventually finds his way through all the mess to the baddie. Who turned out to be someone I wasn't expecting, which I wasn't expecting. I like it when Christie surprises me.
4.5Very good Poirot story.
I can just imagine Agatha going to the dentist and seeing everyone around her cringing just at the thought of what is coming next, and thinking "this is the perfect place" and 'what if...?" The result is a fiendish murder, brilliantly choreographed.
She also turned certain aspects around to great effect.Once more, Christie used nursery rhymes as inspiration and it seems, to structure her story too.
Such a weird idea and yet it works extremely well.One, two,Buckle my shoe;Three, four,Knock at the door;Five, six,Pick up sticks;Seven, eight,Lay them straight:Nine, ten,A big fat hen;Eleven, twelve,Dig and delve;Thirteen, fourteen,Maids a-courting;Fifteen, sixteen,Maids in the kitchen;Seventeen, eighteen,Maids a-waitingNineteen, twenty,My plate's empty.
Christie never gets overly political but she often works current concerns into her stories and it gives an interesting insight into the time of writing.
It's a very thoughtful denouement, this one, where Poirot considers the future and finds it worrying – I suspect it would have resonated strongly with the concerns of the readers of the time.
I've mentioned in the past how good he is at bringing out the humour in some of Christie's books.
Re reading Agatha Christie is always a winner. I enjoyed this one as much as I did the first time; I definitely found it still very different to her other whodunnits but nevertheless enjoyed reacquainting with the different supporting cast of characters; and Poirot with his dentist (for less of a better word, phobia) is precious. Enjoyed the appearance of Japp here too.
Gerçekten güzel bir olay vardı ortada ama biraz uzatılmış gibiydi okurken bazı yerlerde sıkıldım.
This is almost like a Robert Ludlum thriller with several unrelated people and sporadic incidents, all coming together in the end for a grand finale. We get to see Poirot's uncompromising attitude towards fair justice and truth. One of the most intriguing Poirot potboilers that will keep you glued till the end. Great read
First read around 1986.Thirty years already? OMFG ! Still amazing and really loved it!
رائعةمذهلةونهاية صادمة كعادتها!أغاثا كريستي تمتلك عقلاً خارقاً لكتابة هكذا روائع ♥♥
I really enjoyed this one. As always, Agatha Christie's writing is easy and enjoyable, and I loved the twists throughout. A great read.
This time the usually brave detective starts the novel in a pissy mood because he has to undergo the dentist chair.
While getting his teeth worked on, he listens to his regular dentist drone on and on in distraction, only to find out later he's dead.
Convinced the doctor didn't commit suicide, his patient sets out ot pay a final bill and prove who offed the doctor.My interest lagged a few times when Poirot wandered around at first almost aimlessly drilling patients and suspects, but overall the story worked well.
It's not her best mystery and clever whodunnit, but again: Hercule Poirot.
Another of Poirot's investigations, this time centering on the death of Poirot's dentist.This is probably my new second favourite Agatha Christie (after the first I ever read, The Murder of Roger Ackroyd).
The deaths were a little more gruesome than those I've seen in previous Christie novels but the interplay of the mystery and the politics that were discussed was intriguing throughout.
On the whole, I would definitely recommend this one and am excited to carry on my Agatha Christie streak.
A typical Agatha Christie, this one had me guessing from beginning to the end! One of the Best! 5 Stars!
What an adventure that was! I have waited far too long to read Agatha Christie's books. What a mind she must have had to have dreamt up such a complex plot and have figured out a way to tie all the loose ends together.
اتذكر انني شعرت بالم باسناني حين قرأت هذه الرواية رغم اني اسناني كانت بحالة جيدة. فكرة الرواية ذكية كعادة روايات ملكة الغموض والجريمة ولكنها كتبت افضل منها لان هناك ثغرة كبيرة لم استطع تجاوزها و لن اكشفها هنا كي لااقتل التشويق لدى القارىء لكن عموما هي جيدة
To that may be added that few men are heroes to themselves at the moment of visiting their dentist.Hercule Poirot was morbidly conscious of this fact.He was a man who was accustomed to have a good opinion of himself.
He was just that ordinary, that craven figure, a man afraid of the dentist's chair.So Mr Poirot goes for his half yearly dental checkup and comes out with a mystery.
But anyways we must take away a very important lesson from this book - even great men like Poirot go to the dentist half yearly to keep the pearly whites sparkling.:PIt was awesome reading a good whodunnit after my spate with fantasy fiction.
I adore Poirot but I have to say I found this one a little disappointing.
Sure he's present but he doesn't feel quite correct.
Plus, there's a fair amount of behind the scenes machinations, leaving him to come to a conclusion we could never reach ourselves.
Ultimately, despite the historical setting, political commentary and an intense ending with Hercule struggling to determine whether to shop the killer, I left feeling a little let down.Others seem to like it and I'm not sure whether it's just down to me and timing, so maybe I'll give it another whirl one day.
There's honestly nothing better than sitting down with an Agatha Christie novel on a rainy september day with some tea and a blanket.And she's impeccable when it comes to getting one out of a reading slump.
She's so straightforward in her language and yet always exciting.
This is not at all one of her best novels, although I enjoyed a bit of spy intrigue and, possibly, the fate of England hinging on the capture of the culprit.
Now I want to read nothing but Agatha Christie novels all autumn, but I probably shouldn't...
Didn't see that one coming! Great ending!
Interesting? Meh. Realistic? A weaker "meh".
