https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6931356-the-duff
They're making this book into a movie. So, naturally, I had to read it.The word that first comes to mind when thinking back over this book is messy. That's how I would describe it. It's entertaining in parts, annoying in others, and sends out a confusing mix of messages. “I actually need your help. You see, your friends are hot. And you, darling, are the Duff.”“Is that even a word?”“Designated. Ugly. Fat. Friend,” he clarified. “No offense, but that would be you.” This above exchange takes place
However, being a teenage girl with all the insecurities that go along with that, Bianca can't quite forget what Wesley called her.Then she has issues at home.
This book feels like it was written by someone with the same issues.First example: Every girl drools over the hot guys except our narrator.
Personally, I’m a total feminist, but it’s a little sketchy for a teenage boy.”Feminism is a girls-only club?Fourth example: Bianca ditches her friends as soon as she starts shagging Wesley.I'm still giving this three stars, though, because it is damn entertaining.
A note to anyone who chooses to read the following: I am critiquing this book solely based on the first 80 pages or so as I simply didn't have the will to continue any further.There are some spoilers, but only for the first 80 pages.Have you ever been sitting with a group of friends and one of them tells a joke and immediately everyone but you starts laughing?
The DUFF starts off with Bianca sitting in a club, watching her friends dance while she drinks pop at the bar.
2.5? 3? Over-hyped.
What a bummer.I decided to read this novel for four distinct reasons:1) The unmistakable hype2) The movie was exactly what I hoped to watch a Friday night3) Many reviewers qualified this book as ‘‘fun’’ and ‘‘absolutely entertaining’’4) I wanted to see how the DUFF thing was dealt with in the written story and recognize the changes they made to the cinematographic version (because there always are)But the thing is… hype lies, this was nothing – and believe me when I say that – like the movie, the storyline held so many clichés it became more boring than entertaining itself and the DUFF thing was scantly explored.
It wasn’t the fact that the book portrayed teenagers having sex that bothered me about The DUFF.
There is also no hesitation in portraying teenage sex, with not only Bianca, but most of the other people in this book also being sexually active.
What I really didn’t like was the fact that Bianca re-iterates so many times how much she hates Wesley.
Just once, I’d like to read a book where the sex is not only acknowledged, but is found in a loving, healthy relationship.I also think Keplinger does teenage boys a grave disservice with her portrayal of Wesley.
4 stars! I was pleasantly surprised with how much I enjoyed this book. Initially, I picked it up because I saw a preview for the film. After reading it, I’m not sure if I’ll go watch the movie. With the way the few clips I’ve seen show, it’s not much like the book at all. And some of the things I really loved about the book seem to be missing from the film… but back to the book! The Duff is a laugh out loud, sweet, sexy, and at times serious read. It’s a book about friendship, loyalty, and even
With the way the few clips I’ve seen show, it’s not much like the book at all.
It’s a book about friendship, loyalty, and even love.
Bianca is the type of heroine I love reading about.
It’s not a term of endearment, even though Wesley makes it seem that way.
Wesley and Bianca’s not so much friends with benefit’s relationship was something that developed over time.
I loved both of the main characters, and Bianca’s friends were great too!
It’s one of the better YA books I’ve read lately, and honestly, for YA it was a little on the steamy side, which is just another plus.
I had a lot of fun reading this book, this made me laugh, swoon, and grin a lot!
As the story progressed, Bianca was able to realize things about herself and how to finally stop running away from her problems and face it.
They needed someone that would make them realize the things they should really do.Casey and Jessica, Bianca's best friends were also really lovable.
I would love to have best friends like this two.
They're one of the sweetest and most adorable best friends in all the books I'd ever read.Whoa!
Bianca is out with her two best friends when Wesley Rush comes up to her and lets her know her standing."You see, your friends are hot.
A few things kept standing out to me that kept me from completely falling in lurrvve with this book.Now I'm not that teenage girl.
So well, I didn't like so much of the use of sex in the book to "get rid of stress".
I didn't understand Bianca being so hung up on Wesley continuing to call her the Duff girl and then she still can't keep her hands off him.
So many times in this book Bianca refers to herself as fat.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Y'ALL GO TO NETGALLEY AND PICK THIS ONE UP FOR FREE (3/5/15)I kinda LOVED this book. Color me as surprised as anyone else. It seems a lot of people didn't. Here's what I have to say about that . . . And also? You're right. I'm not!Talk about a refreshing flippin' change of pace from the regular YA fare. Not to mention this book was written by a fetus. Her momma should be proud!Kody Keplinger offers up some serious straight talk in The
Bianca isn't above judging a book by its cover - and the awesome part is she totally owns it and also acknowledges that everyone is doing the same to her.
From the looks of things, the book and movie don't have a hell of a lot in common except for the title and the HEA to wrap things up.
Book version of Bianca is one of these girls .
Therefore, there is NO "mean girl" hassling Bianca in the book nor does she have a problem scoring the guy of her dreams once he breaks up with his girlfriend.
Loved it!I was interested in this books years ago, when it first came out, but then I read some reviews that said it was full of inappropriate sex and promoted low self-esteem in girls.Unfortunately, I let that scare me off.I recently noticed that they were making a Movie about the book, and my interest perked up again.Psst.
At least until Wesley decides to tell her that her friends are the hotties of their group.And yet, she still sleeps with him.And I think that's where a lot of readers get the idea that this promotes low self-esteem.I don't think so.
Buddy read with Aly and Figgy. WALDORF: Just when you think this show is terrible something wonderful happens.STATLER: What?WALDORF: It ends.- The Muppet Show Well, I suppose it’s Unpopular Opinion time, seeing as this book has got nothing but raving high ratings with gushing reviews on top. But from the very first page, I got a feeling of dread as I was thrown into the head of one of the most annoying main characters I’ve ever had the misfortune of meeting, as well as heaps of ‘Omigosh!’ and ‘W
Her best friends are pretty and she has a fat ass, school dances are degrading, blowjobs are degrading, Wesley Rush is an asshole (we don’t really know why she hates him so much, other than the fact that he sleeps with a lot of girls, which is really none of her concern), spending time with her friends is tiresome, cheerleaders are bimbos and so is everyone who sleeps with Wesley Rush, her mother doesn’t wear panty hose, and so it goes on and on and on.
Completely ignore her best friends, lie to them, keep secrets from them, hang up on them, avoid them… because she fell in love in high school.
It's not like you're an ogre or anything, but in comparison..."He proceeds to tell you that he's talking to you, the Duff, so your über hot friends will think he's a nice, sensitive guy.
Because, really, I couldn't care less what a (most likely) STD-infected man-whore thinks of me, regardless of how ridiculously hot he might be.
She insults the man-whore, Wesley Rush, and throws her Cherry Coke in his face--**plus twenty points for Bianca, am I right?**--and walks away in a dignity-at-all-times manner.
Stop having sex with the guy you hate.
“No matter where you go or what you do to distract yourself, reality catches up with you eventually.”Never really planned to read this book, but I saw it at the library and picked it up anyway.
I watched the movie a few weeks ago and it's - big surprise - completely different.But I should talk about the book here: It's utterly guessable and an old big high school chick lit cliché, but that's why we love those books and movies right?
So nothing surprising, except how openly the author wrote about sex.
Thumbs up for that.Find more of my books on Instagram
NEW FAVOURITE I LOVED THIS SO, SO, SO MUCH!
**Re-read: TOTALLY LIFTED MY MOOD AND GOT ME THROUGH THIS HORRIBLE WEEK. I adore you Wesley Rush!!!! ♥I was in the middle of asking myself the age-old question-where will I use this in real life?-when I felt a hand on my shoulder. That skin-crawly thing happened, and I knew exactly who was behind me.Great. Just fucking great. Aaaahhhh this book. This book made me so unbelievably happy, it's unreal. I was completely and utterly obsessed from the minute I picked it up until the moment I put it dow
And, I'll admit it, I totally had my nose turned up like a snooty Who from Whoville when I began reading.
It was a very noticeable thing throughout the story, but thankfully I loved her and Wesley so much it just didn't matter-but I can see how this could possibly annoy others.I jerked out from under Wesley's hand and spun to face him, gripping my pencil like a dart and aiming it right at his Adam's apple.He didn't even flinch.
This young author wrote my dream book for this moment in my life-I will never be so judgemental again (Lies.
LOVE, LOVE, LOVE!
The only explanation I can think of: Someone gave her very bad advice.“Hey, my father is a dry alcoholic, hasn’t been drinking for almost 18 years, and now consumes huge amounts of beer and whiskey because my mom left him.” - Better not tell anyone, it is his secret and you’re not in the position to reveal it.
It doesn’t matter that she’s the reason your father is drinking again and there is no reason to be angry at all – not even a little.“I’m sleeping with this super hot, but also arrogant guy I pretend to hate to distract myself from my problems.
4.5 Duffy stars!!!   “No matter where you go or what you do to distract yourself, reality catches up with you eventually.”   OMIGOSH YOU GUYS! I loved this book!! Like seriously, I kind of can't believe how much I loved a book that literally means "ugly fat friend".Over the years I've seen this book in passing, in the library, bookstores, and lists titled "Best Book Boyfriends". I never picked it up because come on. Look at the title. Now look at the cover. Based on those two things, would you
Like seriously, I kind of can't believe how much I loved a book that literally means "ugly fat friend".Over the years I've seen this book in passing, in the library, bookstores, and lists titled "Best Book Boyfriends".
Assigned to work on a project together, Bianca and Wesley end up having a secret friends with benefits relationship, both trying to escape their crappy real lives.As I stated before, I loved this book.
"What's it mean?""The sound of your voice makes me want to strangle myself.""Kinky.”“Your sense of humor needs some work, then," Wesley suggested.
But, I encourage you to ignore the title and cover, and to read this gem of a book.
Another soul-mate book.
This book is deep and thought provoking.
And her friends though they are pretty, are not dumb blondes as the trailer suggests.
Wesley is NOT how he's presented in the trailer either.
In this book NOONE has a make-over.
In this book NOONE has a make-over.
Wesley and Bianca are OTP.
and this book is so special.
not just because i can relate sometimes with Bianca,but because sometimes i can't.
Its the kind of book that changes you.
Rainbow Rowell book,good.PS: In the movie trailer,i noticed a lack of curls in Wesley's head.
3.75 StarsA cute, fun read.
I really enjoyed this story.
Well, when known manwhore, Wesley informs Bianca that she is in fact the Duff of her group, she is left spinning.This revelation comes at the same time Bianca's home life is taking a nosedive.
the last place she ever imagined, Wesley's bed.
"Wesley Rush doesn’t chase girls, but I’m chasing you." 
Overall this was a sweet read, reminding us that there is always more to people than meets the eye.
And at times we all feel like the Duff.
I enjoyed it.
Not to Bianca.If you are having sex on the regular with a man, let's say 3-4 times a week, and are spending a lot of time with him, and then suddenly break it off for no apparent reason, he might be hurt and worried.
He never doubts himself, seems awkward, second-guesses himself, needs reassurance in bed, or expresses any kind of weakness of any kind.Which is complete bullshit.YET ANOTHER THINGYou'd think, after all the bullshit Bianca went through with her ex, that the last thing on Earth she'd want is another secretive, no-one-can-know relationship.
At the end, (view spoiler)[Bianca informs Wesley that they will no longer be having sex.
Give me a main character I can relate to, a plot that keeps me entertained and doesn’t strike me as stupid or ridiculous, make the bad boy swoon-worthy and top it off with some hot and sizzling scenes that make my pulse speed up and I’m happy.As I already said, I am fully aware of the fact that this story does have its flaws, one being its predictability, and you probably wonder why I rated it 5 stars (because this is certainly not the same 5 stars rating as I gave to Melina Marchetta’s Saving Francesca for example) and I honestly don’t know how to justify myself except by saying that I couldn’t put this down, I kept jumping back to passages I especially liked, even while reading, and after I had finished the book I had to read the whole thing again right away because I just didn’t want to let go just yet.
I am so glad that this book is now a movie - it was a cute, fun, sexy read (edgy - so it's for older teens) and I loved it.
Fun-light reads i loved it , Bianca is such amazing i love her so much and Wesley is playboy who acts like an asshole in the first few chapters but you'll learn to like him as the story progress i loved the movie even more, they are so funny :D
As the DUFF in many a friend circles in high school I found this book refreshing.
Bianca spends a bit of the book upset by the fact that she is the DUFF, what she learns is that everyone is a DUFF.
I loved how it touched on the fact that all teenage girls are so self conscious and never see their true potential.
He starts chatting with Bianca and tells her all about how she is the Duff and that speaking with her, showing her compassion, will get him high points with her more hot friends.
While she has had a crush on another character (with a bowl cut, WTF??) for a few years and has put Vulcan-like barriers of logic in place as to what constitutes love, she can’t help but fall for her hookup buddy (view spoiler)[, who she’s been hate-fucking (hide spoiler)].I find that this book isn’t so much about the high school experience as an ensemble, but a personal (and all too relatable) tale of being too hard on yourself and not feeling like you’re good enough compared to others.
(hope you like JJJ :)My Favourite Quote: "No matter where you go or what you do to distract yourself, reality catches up with you eventually".I have never heard of the term The Duff (The Designated Ugly Fat Friend) before I bought this book.
Because anyone who didn't feel like the Duff must not have friends.
A book that you will want to pick up and read again just to feel good.
Bianca doesn't deal with her issues and rather bottles them up inside and looks for other ways to escape them.Now on to my dear Wesley.
Needless to say it's probably going to be nothing like the book but more like the 90's movie She's All That  because this book, was although cute, NOT something I would recommend to young adults.The main character Bianca was, insecure, self absorbed, hypocritical, judgmental, and a bit bitter.
Now, granted everybody has insecurities and I don't mind that but it's hard to read it in a character and what she does with it!How does she even have friends?
Just have sex when you're upset with the hottest guy who'll have you and maybe it will work out?Well hate to spoil it for you but that is what this book is basically all about.
I can't believe how different this story was to the movie!!! My gosh. I loved both but I think I like the book better. This line "Wesley Rush doesn't chase girls, but I'm chasing you" totally made my heart explode. This book was hard to put down
They believed he was a good guy they could tame, but I knew he was a jackass. I only wanted his body.  Go on and get that, girl. 1. At least she KNEW what she was getting herself into.2. And she owned it without shame.3. AND she had no expectations that she was going to get more.In a weird way, Bianca's knowledge of her being the DUFF was this back door into empowerment. In a weird way, I almost expected more insecurity over it. I guess I should be happy that she wasn't the stereotypical needy
AND she had no expectations that she was going to get more.In a weird way, Bianca's knowledge of her being the DUFF was this back door into empowerment.
In a weird way, I almost expected more insecurity over it.
I guess I should be happy that she wasn't the stereotypical needy girl who had to have the guy dispelling her insecurities.
Yeah, the over-the-top arrogant guy was present front and center, but at least he wasn't being fawned over.
I'M JUST HAPPY to read something where guys aren't fighting over the virginal girl who can't tie her own shoes.
The DUFF was fluffy fun - emphasis on fluff.
