https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5941033-let-the-great-world-spin
At the surface, they seem connected by what happens in their lives in and around August 7, 1974 when a man walked a tightrope strung between the two towers of the World Trade Center.
However, as the book progresses, we find out how their lives connect on much deeper levels.
This book rewards patient readers.
Patient readers will get to see how all these threads come together; and come together they do, and beautifully so, in a way that reminded me of Cunningham’s The Hours.
For me, the first half of the book felt very dark: characters die, depressing lives remain depressing, and sorrows remain unredeemed.
This really may be the first truly profound novel to connect itself with September 11, 2001 and New York City, if only because it does so in such an understated, oblique, and poetically suggestive way.
It's also a novel that may take over a hundred pages to truly capture your imagination, but once it does, and once the connective tissue of the disparate group of characters starts to reveal itself, the novel attains a kind of hypnotic and edgy grace for its duration.
When, on the novel's last page, one of McCann's characters reflects that, as humans, "we stumble on ...
I used to really enjoy short story collections.
I don’t know whether this can be ascribed to getting older, but I do know that I now get frustrated with short stories.
I just don’t have time for it anymore.Thankfully, this book is not a collection of short stories.
Let the Great World Spin is actually the story of a particular place and time: New York City, August 1974.
Interestingly, both characters are outsiders—new arrivals from foreign soil—as if pulled in by a city that needs just a little bit of light, please.There is plenty to like about this book, too: its coherency, its writing style, its characters.
For a book that's solely supposed to be about characters....I thought all of these characters were amazingly one-dimensional.
Reading it didn't suck really hard, because it's an easy enough read, and there are little splotches of nice writing and insight throughout....but all in all, I didn't get it.I also didn't get the whole "NYC in the '70s" thing from the book either.
But that might be because I'm inured to the supposed grittiness of the city back then by now.
I'm supposed to let the reader know why he or she should, could, or would want to read a title.You should, could, AND would want to read this National Book Award-winning novel of grief, sadness, and loss because it's so damned easy to love and cherish these characters.
Oh, so much hinges on Jaslyn, Claire's niece of the heart.
So much comes to its final, painful, joyous fruition with her arrival...and truly, ladies and gentlemen, at last here the great world spins.Really, nothing I say can impact your personal decision to read the book or not.
This won the national book awardWhich didn’t stop me from becoming boredInstead of this you could tr
It’s either another day in New York, or it’s the shittiest circus ever.In 1974, a French acrobat named Philippe Petit made even jaded NewYorkers take notice when he illegally rigged a tightrope between the not-quite-finished World Trade Center towers and then spent the better part of an hour walking it over 1300 feet in the air.
He spent over a year of careful planning and practicing for the moment when he and his crew could sneak to the top of the towers and rig the tightrope.
That first low note of the clarinet that increasingly vibrates on the ground before it jumps high, high to land with a soft boom of drums and a smooth backdrop of horns, a building for the clarinet to continue on with trills and soars, till finally the zenith is reached and the horn sounds its own quavering, the robust tone completing that architecture first sounded by the leaping thrills of the lone clarinet.I am hardly the first to see this piece as a musical caricature of New York, but it is certainly a first for me to be reading and find my mind setting down notes as quickly as my eyes can scan in words.
You know I love New York, and even though I wanted to avoid the guy on the wire, I didn’t say I wanted to go overseas right then.The brothers bored me to tears and I felt no connection to them.
I usually like reading about squalor and down-and-outers, but for some reason their story left me cold.
I signed up for a novel, but for a long while it read like a collections of short stories, too independent.
Finally, a little later than I liked, the stories were woven into a nice tapestry; in fact, a beautiful tapestry.All the sudden I was in love with the book.
It is a collection of interlocking stories strung together (natch!) by Philippe Petit's walk across a wire strung between the Twin Towers.
Among the various characters are Irish brothers Ciaran and John "Corrie" Corrigan, who live among the prostitutes of New York City; Claire and her husband Solomon, an upper middle class couple who have lost a son in Vietnam (Claire spends time with a support group, while Solomon is the Judge who arraigns an unnamed Philippe Petit); a South American nurse who's in love with Corrie; a black prostitute whom Corrie attempts to save; a young white girl named Lara who left her privileged upbringing to make time with a too-serious artist; and so forth.
Petit shows up a couple times, in chapters that end the first two sections of the novel.
Two days before I picked up Colum McCann's extraordinary novel "Let The Great World Spin," I watched the equally extraordinary documentary "Man on Wire" for the second time.
It is therefore no wonder that the thread that ties together the vignettes in "Let the Great World Spin" is Petit's momentous tightrope walk as witnessed by the various residents of New York City.
McCann's characters allow us a glimpse of their sorrow and their happiness and let us decide if a balance has been achieved.
A city with so much life in it that just a sliver of a fleeting moment--a man atop a wire suspended between ill-fated twin building--suffices to display the budding emotion of the general populace. And not one emotion but a hundred. & important to these people, for the while, in a very democratic piece of literature. A true valentine to NYC--a jisgaw puzzle of faces that come from different places. They all look up in awe; we look down in equal amazement at the power of this grand American epic.
It's as if some foreign writer came in to write about America and wanted to come away with all its dark secrets by scanning newspaper headlines and popular magazines from the past thirty-five years.
Which is exactly what happened.The writing is cloying and overwritten to the point of complete transparency.
It settled into the corner, a small bubble of blood at its tip." BULLSHIT.
Just tell the story.There were so many other examples but I just want to forget this book now.
I had a difficult time getting into this book but in the end I am glad I persevered.
But the story itself trancends all that and takes us into the lives of some of the people whose days are coloured by this incredible feat and what unfolds is a powerful,complex tale of life, love, loss and redemption.
I don't think I realized just how profound and deeply felt this story was until I had finished it.
It will be some time, no doubt, before I am done thinking about all this book brings to bear.
I read the first page and I stopped, and rubbed my face in it.
There a million people out there we don't know and we will never get to know them.
But they touch our lives in a million ways.
This book is about those people.This book is about connections we will never make but still, we have them.
This book is about ordinary people who are special in their own way.
This book is alive with people who die, who live and who move on.This book is perfect!
Spider-like, sending a thread that looks as delicate as silk from afar, but is strong enough to carry a man, a thread that connects the two separate giants.This took a wee while to work its magic.
It is oblique, (which I like, but it can be unsettling), there are some oddly ugly metaphors - a sunset the colour of muscle.
There are gossamer thin threads thrown across the void, threads that are delicate and easily broken, and as strong as a wire that can carry a man.
They connect.
They cross the void between those different worlds.
It worked.
An ambitious and complex novel set in New York in 1974.
Each chapter tells the story of a different character, and it gradually becomes clear that they are much more linked than seems the case early on.
McCann's characters are rounded and sympathetic, covering a wide cross section of New York society.
The central inspiration is Philippe Petit's high wire walk between the towers of the World Trade Centre, and his story has a symbolic resonance that links the remaining tales of survival.
If I have a slight criticism it is that the last chapter, set in 2006, ties up the loose ends a little too neatly, but overall this was a very rewarding read.
The loss in this book and the admiration the narrators have for the central figure is overwhelming as you read it.
It is a tale of interwoven characters who don't know how they connect, each chapter is written from a different point of view, and there's some play with the chronology of the plot.
I would like to write about the tightrope walker and Corrie's differences.
That's the main difference to me between the tightrope walker and Corrie.
The only reason this book didn't get a 5 star from me is because of the phreakers chapter.
And the great world of New York did indeed spin in this book.
McCann writes with so much lyricism, he makes you want to dance with the tightrope walker the book opens with (taken from the true 1974 story of Philippe Petit, by the way).
Ciaran told the twisted story of his brother, John Corrigan, who was a priest living in the projects with prostitutes, and somehow he became their best friend and angel.
The parallel narratives seemed almost like short stories that were later stringed into a novel.
New York City in 1974 was a run-down, uneasy place, trapped in a spiral of decay.
Colum McCann's novel captures the spirit of the place and the people eloquently and movingly, the despair and isolation, the community and the hope.
While a few of the sections (particularly one of computer hackers working on the early Arpanet) are weaker than the others, overall, this beautifully written book was one that I never wanted to end.
Couple of reasons why: 1) The structure of the book--loosely connected novellas and stories--keeps the reader from getting to know any of the characters, constantly introducing new ones just when you get interested in the last, and totally abandoning a few who clearly have a lot more to say.
3) Many of the characters’ connections came off as forced vehicles to further the novel’s theme of inter-connectedness rather than as naturalistic development of plot or personality.
4) Not enough diversity of language to accommodate the diversity of the characters; at times, they all sounded alike and I would forget whose story I was reading.
It’s the natural, albeit overused, word for what McCann did so well: tell multiple stories about multiple people with multiple themes, focusing on one point-of-view at a time, but with enough overlap to bind them together.
(I tried to come up with a more distinctive metaphor, but my spinning disc with multi-colored curves coming from the center like one of those psychedelic swirl lollipops smacked of trying too hard.)Anyway…This was a very good book.
And to combine them in the manner of a spinning disc with multi-colored curves coming from the center like one of those psychedelic swirl lollipops.
ENGROSSING.Despite depressing themes; in gratitude of lambent prose that sparkles and twinkles across the page, Colum McCann’s, ‘Let the Great World Spin’ is a joy to read.
“NOBODY FALLS HALFWAY” (Pg. 149 -- B&N Digital Edition)After reading the prologue I thought, “Wow. I’m going to like this novel.” By page fifty-five or so, though, I was ready to give it two stars and lament how I should have known better than to read a book by anyone with ‘Mc’ in their name.
(Pg. 309 – B&N Digital Edition)Recommendation: Pick up this award winning novel for a delightful read.[nookEbook #6:]
You read it for the words, the thoughts that arise in you as you listen.
You do not read this book for the plot.
You cannot understand every line as you listen.
If I extract a few lines to show you, you will miss their import.
They are part of the context, each line related to the next.
You will not understand more if you read the paper book.
Do not be scared to read this book because you hear that is composed of different stories.
I loved this book.There are many other reviews out there.
Me, I do not advise reading this book for its plot.
So I sally forth near the head of the line and buy three novels for him to sign, including "Let the Great World Spin." Waiting patiently, my turn finally comes to shake hands with someone I have never before read or even heard of.
I identify myself straight-away: "I'm the dick who asked you the question about the plot of 'Ulysses.' I try but sometimes cannot help myself when it comes to being a dick." He politely replies, "I know." And he smiles beneath his pork pie hat.
I was sad I hadn't spent time on a better book.(The Old)Another critically acclaimed work of "literate" fiction that I've left unfinished.
Their characters as boys interested me, but the story of life in Harlem just dragged on, and eventually I got bored.
Never got to the other stories and their connections to the first.
Allora la beatitudine mi si stampa in viso, e passo i giorni dopo aver chiuso il libro a rigirarmelo tra le mani, come un innamorato maneggia fino a consumarla, la prima lettera d'amore ricevuta.C'è chi con la carta fa origami a forma di gru.
Una piccola medaglia, quasi una monetina da 5 centesimi, che possiamo deporre sulla linea dell'orizzonte durante il tramonto, e accorgerci che ha la stessa forma del Sole.Una frase per tutte: "C'è chi pensa che l'amore sia la fine della strada, e che se si è abbastanza fortunati da trovarlo ci si ferma lì.
I was into it right away and then I didn't even want to pick it up for a solid week...overall I liked it but there were a couple stories I really struggled through, and those same ones were the characters I struggled to like or connect with at all, in particular, Tillie.
Even with a mixed reaction to the story, I can undoubtedly say, Colum McCann has a way with words.
His writing was so simple yet eloquent.
If I were a writer, this is the type of writing I'd aspire to create.
A superb writer. Have read at least a couple of his others, but this is the best so far. 10 stars. This is the best book I have read in years. Brilliant. I want to go back and immediately re-read it. The pure celebration of us all. Our stories. There are so many individual stories in the world. Meaningless and full of meaning, all at once. Now to go back and re read it, to savour it more slowly, to study the craftsmanship, the carved swirls, the sleek lines, the artistry at the back as well as the front.

