https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/270807.Burned
In a way, the context is a bit misconstrued, a lot of people got upset over the fact that it misrepresented a Mormon community.
A few months after reading it I was able to step back from the book and see that this book was not focused on it being a Mormon community.
The purpose of literature is to incite emotion, to make you either hate or love the characters, and if you're really lucky, you'll find a book that does both.
When  Burned  came to my attention, I decided to take a closer look.If I'd considered what to expect, judging from the summary, here's the story I thought I was getting: Girl is confused and confined by her family's religion.
I know there are some branch-off Mormon sects (Not the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints), that have different takes on that subject.
(By the way, the central goal of our religion is to bind husbands, wives and their children as families eternally--"forever love", I think Mrs. Hopkins calls it.)The bishop of my ward is a warm, humble, compassionate man.
The story wasn't lost in the poetry and, if anything, it only served to make the story more effective.The basic plot is that of a strictly religious mormon family, the father is a violent drunk and the mother takes the beatings and verbal abuse simply because she is a woman and her husband is in charge of her.
Especially when Brother Crandell (I think - I don't have the book to hand) told Pattyn that the only way she could be redeemed for being born female is to fulfill God's wishes and have lots of babies (because that's a woman's role).
Whoa. No words.I've discovered Ellen Hopkins.P.S. This is my favorite quote for the book: "God is love," she said. "And He respects love, whether it's between a parent and a child, a man and a woman, or friends. I don't think He cares about religion one little bit. Live your life right, Pattyn. Love with all your heart. Don't hurt others, and help those in need. That's all you need to know. And don't worry about Heaven. If it exists, you'll be welcome."
This author doesn't have a clue about what Mormonism is about or how women are treated in the LDS church. Her "writing" sets Mormon women in the same stereotype as fundamental LDS women or even worse. Please see the following for further clarification:http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi...My gripe with this is that people who know nothing about the LDS Church read this book they will get a very skewed and incorrect viewpoint about the LDS Church and LDS women.
[4.5 Stars]
This book was absolutely AMAZING. I think I will have a hard time reviewing how I felt about this book...AGHHH STILL SO GOOD THE SECOND TIME.
While Hopkins does a fantastic job of describing the reluctant Pattyn falling in love with the iconic Ethan, and creates a fantastic mother figure in tough, old Aunt J, the foreboding bits of foreshadowing that she drops every few chapters continually takes the reader out of the present and gives away the ending far too early.
After Aunt J and Ethan teach her the power of love and after everything she has learned along her journey, at the end of the book she considers something completely out of character.
Being LDS myself and having some of the LDS beliefs extorted, it reminds me of how much I appreciate the truth of the religion and what I do know.
Being in the midst of abuse in a personal experience in Utah, the book does hit close to home in many ways and is realistic to the core in some aspects.
This would be a great book to use in a group discussion of abused survivors and also a reading group.
I am going to go back over it and read it again.
Can be a very helpful and almost therapeutic book for survivors/victors of abuse.
*SPOILERS*Pattyn's dad finds out she had been hanging out...making out with a boy and drinking, he decides to keep her in her room accept for school.
There were things Pattyn's father did to Aunt J when they were teens that made them become estranged.
The BEST thing Aunt J taught Pattyn was to love and be loved.
Pattyn never had anyone in her family tell her she loved her and showed her like Aunt J.
She had 9 girls that included Pattyn and then she got pregnant finally with a boy when Pattyn went to stay the summer with Aunt J.
Pattyn fell in love with the neighbor boy named Ethan.
I didn't want it to end.Pattyn Von Stratten is a teenage Mormon, and from the very beginning, you can see that that lifestyle is not for her.
Throughout the story, Pattyn would do little things to defy the norms set before her.
It didn't feel like just some story I was reading at all.
When I finished it, the first thing I saw was something talking about how this book was purely fictional.
I now feel the uncontrollable urge to read all of her books.Once I got through the first hundred pages, I could see Pattyn slowly unraveling.
The feels this book gave me were just too much.
Continuing my Author Exploration and I'm enjoying it immensely. This was a brilliant read.
Once upon a time I was falling in love, now I'm only falling apart.
I finally finished last semester well and I am back to having a little bit of freedom. I have enough time to read 1-2 novels a week, so hopefully I can catch up on my reading goal this year! I can't believe I haven't read a book by Ellen Hopkins yet and I'm so glad that I finally did because it was bloody amazing!  “Did you ever, when you were little, endure your parents’ warnings, then wait for them to leave the room, pry loose protective covers and consider inserting some metal object into an
I can't believe I haven't read a book by Ellen Hopkins yet and I'm so glad that I finally did because it was bloody amazing!
After having a dream of a guy she likes, she comes to question things about her life, regarding God, love and more.
I really liked Pattyn's character, sure I wouldn't do a lot of the things she did, but I loved how she would fight for what she believes in.
Aunt J is great, I love how she gives Pattyn as much freedom as possible.
Jackie is a great sister and I love how she looks out for Pattyn.
(Let's not forget, it's run by mortals.) And I have experienced an LDS man thinking he had a God given right to rule over women, but that exists no matter where you look.
But luckily I don't judge millions of members, and good men and women, by the rantings of a few angry and bitter people, even if their anger is justified.But the evil members of an evil church seemed to be the entire theme of the book.
So let's say, hypothetically, she had waited to have sex like her "church" wanted, then she could have finished her last year of school, turned 18, married the man, moved to the country and been a happy bumpkin.
Yes, Pattyn had a horrible life, and yes, considering her home life, it's no wonder that she turned to men and sex to make her feel loved and wanted.
But everything else was cliche, and since I'm LDS myself, rather than feeling upset at the mis-portrayal of Mormon life, I found myself laughing at how ridiculous it was.
Just seems to me the author looked for shortcuts and cheap shots (not even cheap shots, air balls) to try and show how awful these people were.
And the ending was sudden and absolutely wrong - guess the author wanted to leave and not come back.
Not doing a full review. I read this fast but can’t say I enjoyed it. It’s very problematic in its thoughts on Mormonism to say the least. I’m not Mormon but one of my best friends is. This paints the religion in a bad light that I don’t think is fair or accurate. Based on Hopkins writings, I highly doubt she has any personal experience with the religion.
A safe dream.Safe, because he was unattainable, something to adore from afar.Like a snow-drenched mountainor an evening star.The Storyline17-year old Pattyn Von Stratten is the oldest child in a Mormon family which consists of an alcoholic and abusive father and an extremely overwhelmed mother.
After her father catches her in a moment of rebellion she is inevitably sent to live with her Aunt in rural Nevada.
It was damn near impossible not to feel bad for Pattyn and her 'moments of rebellion' which wasn't even anything that bad...
I finished this book with my jaw on the ground; it was an extremely abrupt and unexpected ending.
Burned by Ellen HopkinsEllen Hopkins has several novels out that would put off most people by their size.
Ellen Hopkins is known for writing edgy novels about teenagers’ life.
I felt like I didn’t belong, not in my home, not in my church, not in my skin.”Burned, just like any other Ellen Hopkins book, is about a girls struggle through her teenage years.
In result, Pattyn is sent away to stay with her aunt in Nevada.
Her father isn’t too thrilled about this, because he doesn’t care much for her, he just wanted rid of Pattyn.Ellen Hopkins has writtin a wonderful novel.
With an alcoholic father and an always-breeding mother, she gets herself into trouble with the "wrong crowd" and as a form of punishment must go live with her Aunt J for the summer in Nevada.
There she "falls in love" with Ethan, an older boy, and together they learns the lessons of life.
She becomes pregnant and upon returning home, is beaten by her father and eventually runs away with Ethan only to have him die in a car accident.
She then decides she will 'punish' everyone who caused her problems by killing them in Sacrament Meeting.
Once again Hopkins brings to her readers a riveting, profound coming of age story.
This is part of what Hopkins has brought to the table with this story and a young girls struggle to believe she is good enough.
That she has a right to stand up for her own beliefs, and not what her family, church family, or bishop thinks she should believe.Another issue Hopkins touches on is domestic abuse.
Dear Ellen Hopkins,I love you, and literally can't wait for the sequel.
It basically tells the story of Pattyn Von Stratton, a young girl struggling with who she is, who her family is, and a question many people ask themselves, "Is there a god?".
She also talks about a woman's role in the mormon family.
Pattyn starts to fall in love with someone and her father doesn't take that lightly, especially since that boy isn't Mormon.
It's absolutely amazing, and I can't wait for the sequel, Smoke, to come out in 2012.
. .interesting.
Written in prose form made it fun to read.
The story was a little off.
Well, a sad story, but written from an LDS perspective.
The author was WAY off on the LDS religion.
Sounded more like FLDS to me.
A lot of FLDS stuff happening.
If you're trying to get a peek into the LDS culture, this isn't the book.
But the story wasn't too bad.
A little bit of a roller coaster ride of emotions.
The ending shocked me a little bit, and I wanted to change it, but I guess it made sense.
“Did you ever, when you were little, endure your parents’ warnings, then wait for them to leave the room, pry loose protective covers and consider inserting some metal object into an electrical outlet?"
Pattyn is a young woman living in a tightly knit religious community and abusive household.
I'll admit it hit me like a punch to a gut and I couldn't shake the emotional upheaval it left within me long after turning the final page."Burned", like the other books of Hopkins I've read, went down so smoothly and quick for the overarching read - I really enjoyed the audio narration of the novel as well as the poetic form she uses to tell Pattyn's story.
I thought her fears and concerns were front and center, making me feel her struggle, but I think there were opportunities of depth and debate (particularly around the religious community concerns, since Pattyn lives in a Mormon household) that were missed.
3.5/5This is a quick and easy read. As with the other Ellen Hopkins books I have read, this too is written in verse. It tells the story of a teenaged girl who grows up in a Mormon family and discovers the true meaning of love when she is sent away to live with her aunt (a less religiously devout member of her family) for a summer.
dat ending
I think due to the sex, drugs, abuse, alcohol, and mature themes, my poor tween mind was scarred for life, and thus the unspoken rule to never pick up another Hopkins novel like ever again ever was created.Good thing I'm 16 now & totally corrupted!
Like, OMG WTF is wrong with you Hopkins you sick human being, sad.
- felt impersonal, kind of slow, weird dialogue, reading about sex is gross....
Will I be reading the next novel?
No. Unless - you've read Hopkins before and already like her.
I felt this story was presented in such a way that the author was trying to impress that Pattyn's situation happens in many LDS households, and I simply don't believe that's the case.
The largest issue I had with this book is the way male members of the church talk about women and the way Pattyn views herself in the church.
However, the way the men in this book speak to and treat the women is a completely inaccurate reflection of the church as a whole.
Nope.
Nope.
Just...too many feels.
FEELS.I can be bullied in real life to the point of contemplated suicide, and not shed a tear.
Sister's Keeper?
Meh. Titanic?
Puh-lease.
Don't make me laugh.
Creepy dark novels that have you looking over your shoulders for psycho-killers or stalker rapists?
I live for intense novels.
A free verse, intense and sad novel about very real personal and world issues, with relatable characters, situations and religious struggles?I'm bawling like a freaking baby.
I can't finish this.
I can't finish this.
I just....Can't.I...I need some chocolate.
Go for a long walk.
Shake this mourning lost feeling.
