https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/343738.The_Front_Runner
So there are actually two movies I could watch if I am sick and bed-ridden: as a child: "Peter Pan" (dedicated to the sick children of post W.W.II London, as I recollect); as an adult: "Brokeback Mountain."I was not an instant fan of the film until I saw it on DVD.
It is the ultimate Lifetime movie-- the perennial dramathon we've come to expect from love stories.
Gay Brokeback, not Peter Pan.Anyway, I also don't really regard the short story by Annie Proulx all that.
So, then, which is the definitive gay love story of all time?NOT the Front Runner, that's fo show.It is melodrama supreme...
Lo siento, pero no he podido con este libro. Según los expertos, es la historia gay más hermosa que se ha escrito hasta ahora, pero yo no estoy de acuerdo. Es más, hay frases que te dejan de piedra; helada contra las mujeres. Y no sólo eso, sino que el personaje de Harlan es odioso. ¿En serio quiere tener niños? ¿Él, que ya los tiene y ni se acuerda de sus hijos? Parece ironía.
De esas lecturas que se necesitan para cambiar el mundo. Los héroes son gente anónima.
I enjoyed reading this book - it wasn't the best written story, but it depicted an honest and candid story involving two men in love when the gay liberation movement was just picking up steam.
The standout quality aside from the characters relationship and development was the idea that "liberalism" was simply the idea of "acceptance" in which people are judged on their personality and not on physical appearance while acknowledging people's freedom to make their own choices.
A liberal then was simply someone who acknowledged everyone as a human being and didn't discriminate or hold prejudice - a concept I can get behind.The book is full of some very memorable and interesting quotes that made me chuckle:"Macho gays, all of them.
I love it soo sooo much! It goes directly to my favorite shelf.Review later, I hope I'll be able to write a proper review one week later.(I really have a lot of thoughts about it, but it is impossible for me to type a review on my smartphone at the hotel lobby- it is the only place with a free internet access!)
Sigh. What to say about this book? I do understand that it was brave and sensational and groundbreaking. I do understand that it changed the lives of many people who read it. I do understand that it was a product of its time and that times are different now. I do understand how it helped lay the foundation for other queer novels to follow. But seriously, it is just so. Extraordinarily. Bad. There, I've said it.
THIS was beautiful. (view spoiler)[It was also soul-crushingly sad but totally worth the read. (hide spoiler)]
Billy Sive, you are the most perfect character on Earth!!!This classic is a must read BUT you guys need to be in the mood for such an emotional ride.
In my humble opinion this reads like a story about LGBT rights and not like Billy and Harlan's love story.
They happen to be the main characters in this tale but it didn't feel like I was reading their love story.
I felt as if I was being part of a history class where the teacher tells you what the LGBT community had to go through in the 70's.I had to stop reading often because I needed a break.
I was simply gripped by this book.
This book describes the discrimination and brutality suffered by gay people from the 1930s to the 1970s and in many ways it is like apartheid.
I was simply riveted.
The book describes the life of a gay athlete whose private life with his coach became the focus of attention for politicians, the media and the public all of whom tried every trick to have him dropped from the Olympic team all because of his sexual orientation.
How he overcame these obstacles through sheer determination and strength of character and the support of his partner is most inspirational.It is one of the best books that I've read in a long time.
That it has just had its 20th anniversary makes it all the more stunning to me for its ability to hold up over time, as so many books struggle to do.
The historical content was spot-on; her treatment of what gays and lesbians of the period went through was frighteningly accurate, and at the same time quite a positive reinforcement of many the things we have accomplished.
This book is a glimpse at the social rights movement that brought us this far, as well as the lives of two gay men written so well that you really will breathe with them.But, like I said, perhaps not something to read on vacation in an airport.
This is a classic m/m romance, written back when that was a far more rare and risky thing. It is a wonderful book, and has lost nothing in the decades since it was written. The 1970's setting is a vivid backdrop, the main characters are wonderful and complex, and the ending still makes me cry after many readings. As we browse through the candy store of contemporary m/m romances, this is one to read and savor, and to remind us of the things that change, and the things that remain the same.
Wow, things have certainly come a long way since 1974.Now, they actually publish gay novels that are good, instead of schmaltzy claptrap like this.
y ahora queres tener otro y encima lo que me sacó mal fue que Harlan decía “que lo mejor de haber estado casado fueron los hijos y que los chicos a veces eran insoportables pero le encantaba cuando él llegaba a la casa y ellos de decían papi, papi” (algo así) si, ¡se re nota como amas a tus hijos porque hablas de ellos todo el tiempo!.
Una parte que realmente me sacó de mis casillas fue cuando él y Billy hablan de alquilar un vientre y llaman "yegua de cría" a la mujer.
Curioso ter lido quase de seguida dois livros sobre relações entre homossexuais, ambos de grande nív
This book gets four stars because it made my adolescent, gay heart pound.
I fell in love with Billy.
It broke my heart.
I read and reread it because it was about people like me who'd met other people like me and I wanted to run away and join those people.
I kept this book hidden under my bed.
I'm scared to reread it now that I'm in my forties because it could pop that romanticized bubble.
If you read this book because of my recommendation, be advised that this recommendation is made based upon sentimental memories some thirty years after the fact.
Fino all'85% il libro, senza far gridare al miracolo, non era male, anche se a tratti scritto in modo curiosamente "cronachistico".
Forse il valore di questo libro va cercato, più che nella qualità intrinseca, nel fatto di essere un'opera "pioneristica", che ha presentato per la prima volta al grande pubblico certi temi.Lascio 3 stelle, che era il voto che pensavo di dare prima del finale, ma se volessi essere severa dovrei abbassarlo.
La storia prosegue con altri due libri, ma difficilmente li leggerò (anche perché la conclusione di questo è già soddisfacente, non lasciando praticamente nulla in sospeso).
Bueno; quiero empezar diciendo que leí este libro porque me prometía “el libro con la historia gay más bonita” y no, para mí no lo fue.Tal vez si hubiera leído el libro antes de saber e interesarme tanto en el feminismo serían 5 estrellas en vez de 2.
Tal vez si hubiera leído el libro cuando salió, la calificación sería otra, porque tenía otra cabecita; pero ahora simplemente no..El libro está ambientado desde 1935 que uno de los personajes nace; pero el punto fuerte de la historia es alrededor de los años ‘70 en EEUU, donde creo que ya todos sabemos lo que era ese contexto.
I realize this was probably an important novel around the time it was written, but that doesn't take away from the fact that it's, well, crap. There are much better books written about the subject by now. It's a horribly contrived love story, with two-dimensional characters whom I never got to feel anything for. Moreover the ending rubbed me horribly the wrong way. It also doesn't help that the other theme of the novel - marathon running - doesn't interest me at all. Too many technical talk about running, blegh.
Death, that hustler, that last lover.”Published between the era of Leave it to Beaver and Father Knows Best, and the AIDS crisis, The Front Runner is a very blunt and honest look at homosexuality in the world of American sports, circa 1975.
In the fall of ‘74 he received three candidates for his team — three boys kicked out of their previous school for their homosexuality.
He, the coach, being gay himself, takes them under his wing; a romantic relationship between he and one of the boys soon develops.
The pacing, too, is an issue — the middle is a bit of a slog, at times — but the noteworthy beginning and extraordinarily written finale more than make up for it.
I was recommended this book by two people who had read it when it first came out.
It’s set in the 1970s when I was a young mum with two toddlers, and in some ways the world has changed a great deal, but sadly, not enough.
The story of the love between the coach and the runner unfolds gradually.
It was their refusal to treat people as individuals which was so ridiculous yet so shocking.Looking back, I feel if I’d read it when it was newly published it would have blown me away.
A fantastic story and I’d recommend it to anyone.
Within the first 20 pages we know his life story thus far and is presently the track coach for Prescott College.
Billy was cast-off his college's track team from his homophobic track coach along with two other gay classmates, Jacques and Vince.
Together, the three enter Prescott and draw immediate national attention.
Billy falls hard for Harlan and within months, the romance comes to life which brings both character's first time falling in love.This is a story of over-coming obstacles of such grand circumstances and the tragic twist that left me in tears throughout the last 30 pages.
I loved this beautiful and heartbreaking love story when I read it in my 20's. It is now time for a re-read to see if this book lives up to my fond memories.
It's impossible to not to think of this as historical fiction, but this was written 40+ years ago when what feels like history now was a genuine struggle for anyone who dared to be out and gay.
So after your done cringing at the horrible treatment these men endured, imagine the impact of reading 40 years ago a genuine love story between two men who are portrayed as human.
So while it's not a literary masterpiece, it does have an important corner in the the world of gay fiction.About the running.
I loved the running, training and competition the as a backdrop to this story.
Como no caso de Billy, corredor olímpico dos 5.000 e 10.000 metros, que apenas quer que o deixem em paz para viver o seu amor tranquilo, e que o conheçam não como gay, ou atleta gay, mas apenas como atleta, e mais tarde campeão pelo seu país.O desenlace do livro é chocante, vários são os momentos emocionantes até às lágrimas, tal a emoção que o livro desperta, o que é tão mais impressionante quando nos recordamos que foi publicado em 1974.Um palavra de gratidão para os editores da INDEX e-books que nos permitiram ler esta obra na língua portuguesa.
adorei. não fazia ideia de que fosse assim tão fantástico. concordo que a escrita é muito simples, mas é uma história tão bonita e trágica e relata de uma maneira tão bela o amor entre eles.fica a pergunta: para quando a tradução dos restantes livros? :)
Totally dated, schmaltzy and predictable. I appreciate the historical significance of this book but it still sucked.
This has not aged well at all, but if you have an interest in the history of gay literature, you should give this a read.
So many problems with this book -- its misogyny, melodrama, high-tone preaching, etc.
Comencé este libro por el reto de "un libro que te haga llorar" y yo soy una llorona, lloro con todos los libros, llore con bajo la misma estrella incluso si no soporto el libro,simplemente si algo triste sucede yo lloro.No lloré con este libro.Harlan es una pequeña bolsa de excremento, no lo soporté en un principio,pero luego sentí que crecía como personaje y en especial junto a Billy se convirtió en un personaje que podia soportar - no amar, nunca amar, sus comentarios en contra de las mujeres eran demasiado constantes como para otra cosa que tolerarlo por ser la pareja de Billy, personaje que es mi favorito- Billy es un amor,es directo y sincero, no toma mierdas de nadie y sabe lo que quiere, lastima que quisiera a alguien tan poco impresionante como Harlan,pero todos tiene defectos y al parecer el suyo es tener pésimo gusto en hombres.(view spoiler)[Estoy triste por su final,pero lo entiendo y la verdad no me molesta mucho cuando mis personajes favoritos mueran, siempre y cuando su muerte tenga un significado y no sea una falta de respeto hacia el personaje y lo que hizo durante todo el libro.
The fact that it was written during the seventies has no bearing on how well written or marvelous it really is.It is told in first person by Harlen a track coach at a small college, who is gay.
He suddenly finds himself with three track stars from another larger college who were thrown off their team for being gay.He comes to know and fall in love for the first time with Billy Sive, whom he coaching for the Olympics.
The complete love and devotion to their sport is in every page.
You will love every character in this book and by the end you will sob.
