https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59715.The_Authoritative_Calvin_and_Hobbes
Every time I try to read in bed, this happens:
I'm saying I felt like I was taking college classes, and I was loving it!These strips weren't about hitting you over the head with gags.
Some pages were just bridges, and that's okay, because as a whole that series of strips gained a certain gravitas that created more of a solidified "book", which these comics collections often lack.Earlier I said that I didn't think Watterson was necessarily better than Larson, but I'd have to hand it to Watterson over Larson when it comes to drawing.
Maybe I'm reading too much into all of this, but that's what the Calvin and Hobbes comic strip meant to me.
If I'd have met Calvin in second grade, we'd still be married. It's really hard to find a good boy with a tiger.
The comic strip "Calvin and Hobbes" was, and continues to be, like the best gifts, unexpected and undeserved.
These are brothers.Fans of the series tend to hold dear one plotline in particular, wherein Calvin stumbles upon an ailing baby raccoon, and enlists his long-suffering mother in helping him nurse it back to health.
Watterson, no surprise, handles it with aplomb, and one of my favorite moments from this series is a rare Calvinless strip, which finds the mother sharing a quiet moment alone with Hobbes, amused to be genuinely confiding in what is ostensibly a stuffed toy.
Reading this, seeing the expressions on Calvin's face or the grimaces & scowls on his parents' faces just makes me all kinds of happy.
It's going into that world that is Calvin's imagination that takes me back to my own childhood years where everything was possible that makes me happy & glowy.
I'm not ashamed to say I got teary eyed when Calvin lost Hobbes, the look on his face!
The huge watery eyes!
You'd have to be made of steel not to say "awwwwwwww!" & dab at your eyes.
This gets 4 stars, not because the content is bad but because there's quite a bit of overlap between this and the last Calvin and Hobbes I read, i.e. the Tenth Anniversary Book. But there was still much to amuse and delight.
5.0 stars. Second only to Gary Larson's "The Far Side" as my favorite cartoon series of all time. Always clever, always funny and always leaves you in a better mood.
I needed something to clear my head after way too much research. This was perfect.
If you don't like Calvin and Hobbes, I question your judgment and I don't think we can be friends. That is all.
What else can I say? Part artist, part superhero, part ladies man. Calvin has the style that the ladies are beggin for...and his tiger is pretty fly too.Imagination is a wonderful thing
Classic Hilariously Intelligent Comic Strip Collection.
No matter when I read Calvin and Hobbes, or under what circumstances, it is just perfect. What a wonderful mix of humor, philosophy, family, imagination, and friendship. This is the type of book that makes everything seem better, and is why I consider it easily one of my all-time favorites.
This is my all time favorite childhood couple!
I liked it. Calvin is a smart kid. Hobbes is amusing. It is like Winnie-the-Pooh for a slightly older audience! Just a cute kid and his stuffed tiger. Some Snoopy and Dennis the Menace style too. Some skits are short, others longer. Most are good.
by Bill Watterson, published in 1988.Every time I sit down and start reading my daughter Calvin and Hobbes, I just can’t help smiling out loud.
There is something so true, so funny, so insightful about this comic strip it gets under your skin and tickles you from inside.My daughter loves it too.
This collection, The Authoritative Calvin And Hobbes, includes all the comics from “Yukon Ho!” and “Weirdos From Another Planet!” and is fantastic.
Nothing gets them to stop fidgeting like reading Calvin and Hobbes.For those wishing to collect all the strips of Calvin and Hobbes I provide the complete paperback listing below.
This book is about a six year old boy and his best friend (who is a stuffed tiger) Hobbes.
Calvin thinks Hobbes is real but he is a stuffed animal but Calvin pretends to make Hobbes do things and his mom gets mad at Calvin but he blames it on Hobbes!Calvin isn't good in school because he never does his homework and in the class room he is always fantasizing about "Spaceman Spiff".
Calvin is a pretender, He pretends to turn himself into an elephant with his transmogrifier box.
Or he visits the disosaurs with his time machine, flies past his dads office with a magic carpet, I could go on all day.Calvin and Hobbes are the most funny six year old and tiger I've ever seen.
Life is better with Calvinball in it; since I met Stupendous man, learned of the Transmogrifier and the power of one's imagination. Summer is approaching and there's never been a better time to take C&H and start reading :)
My childhood, in a nutshell. And, I still love these comics so much!
One of my favorite all time Sunday comic strips. This little boy, Calvin, with his spiked hair and imagination the size of the world, struck a chord with me.
Why couldn't I have been born in the 80s? How come no one told me about Calvin and Hobbes until I was into my late teens? Oh well, glad I'm getting around to it because these strips are phenomenal!
No matter how many times I re-read my Calvin and Hobbes books, they keep being funny!
Whimsical, yet repetitive. DNF at page 200.
Great
His Ramona-to-the-Snoopyth-power imagination lets the writer dabble in many different genres while always keeping the strip grounded, and his conversations with Hobbes and his parents feature not only the sly streak of social commentary so many adult writers pride themselves on including in their "kiddie" voices but ALSO that much more elusive thing, the realistic voice of a small child trying hard to provide trenchant social commentary from his own level.It's that streak of stubborn social consciousness - the child trying to participate in the adult world, rather than representing a self-contained idyllic fantasy of the past - along with the mile-wide imagination, that puts Calvin & Hobbes on a level with Ramona, and far above most other books I've read about kids in that age range.Well, that and the snarky stuffed tiger.
This is the comic that relates the adventures of Calvin and his toy tiger, Hobbes.
Hobbes is seen by Calvin's parents as a plush toy and by Calvin and the reader as a pouncing and amiable "real" tiger — Calvin's slightly-more-sensible better half.I enjoyed the early years of this comic but then it started to get too something.
(I have not researched it, but I find it hard to believe that someone who conceived of the comic and its many moral and philosophical themes would also come up with the idea of his character peeing on a company logo.)But the beginning years were grand, filled with adventures and lots of little-boy imagination.Recommended read.
- recently I decided to reread a few panels of all the Calvin and Hobbes books each time I sit down to read anything.
I have been savoring this book for roughly six months now.
Time for the next adventure!
- some days I feel like Hobbes: sure of myself, life-drunk, philosophical.
Other days I am Calvin: my imagination controls me.
I have so many questions it's tough to focus on anything - once in awhile I'm mom or dad and I'm trying so hard to put on a front and be a grown-up I miss everything.
Thankfully there's always another panel, another tomorrow, and no matter what, always a character I can relate to
Why is it that whenever I'm feeling a little low, all I have to do is pull one of the Calvin & Hobbes books from the shelf and give it a good re-read to perk me up.
I've many other "funny-books", but these are the ones that bring me most joy.Then, a little after I am done, I start re-realizing that Watterson will probably never do any more, then I get sad again.I'm very grateful for what I have...
and I'll re-read them as many times as I need...
I just wish there were more.OK, now I'm feeling sad again, guess it's time to pull another one of the shelf
One of the most perceptive, thought-provoking, and truly funny cartoon strips ever created! Watterson not only nails life, he's hilarious. He addresses everything from philosophy to film noir. I was actually saddened when I learned he was quitting the strip! Thank goodness we've got his books to recall. Life, art, literature, philosophy, friendship, imagination, evil -- you name it, Calvin and his toy tiger take it on. Add this book to The Essential Calvin and Hobbes and you'll have most of the great ones -- a gem.
Never fully understood, but this is my childhood.I own a bunch of these, and I truly feel like they serve the purpose of a family photo. They're beautifully insightful works that say so much in so little time.I can appreciate something that stands the test of time (childhood to adulthood),and even if there are some things I just don't get, it's part of growing up, and in time, I'm sure I'll understand more and more.
This is among the books published by Bill Watterson from the Calvin and Hobbes comic strip that I have enjoyed. My children have literally worn out these collections of C&H comics, and with good reason. C&H is a unique blend of homespun philosophy, side-splitting humor, and insight into the human (child and adult) condition. Watterson's insights into, and sly digs at, various social, familial, and other institutions of modern life are masterful.
