https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33297.The_Naked_Ape
حسناً, لقد وجدت ضالتي صدفة هنا.يبدأ الكتاب بتفسير اختيار العنوان؛ فالإنسان هو القرد الوحيد العاري من الشعر من بين 193 فصيلة من فصائل القردة والسعادينالعنوان بالإنجليزية: The Naked Ape: A Zoologist's Study of the Human Animal وترجمته الحرفية: "القرد العاري: دراسة عالم حيوان لحيوان الإنسان", ولكن ولأسباب تسويقية أو دينية تم تحويل العنوان الفرعي لـ "دراسة في التطور العضوي والاجتماعي والجنسي للإنسان".
على عكس علم الحيوان الذي يدرس الأنجح والأقوى الذي انتصر في صراع الطبيعة.ونلاحظ في العنوان الفرعي للترجمة العربية بأنه تم ترحيل لفظ "الجنسي" للنهاية لجعله يبدو كموضوع هامشي رغم أن الكاتب أفرد الربع الأول من الكتاب للحديث عن الجنس.
شد العمة شد تحت العمة قرد  أو كما قال الفاجومى في مسرحية الملك هو الملك  السلطان حشو القفطان  إذا ليس هناك أي إنسان و إن هو إلا قرد عار استطاع السيطرة على كل القرود و الحيوانات الأخرى و هو الأن بصدد السيطرة على الكون بأكمله.حسنا لن أجادل في ذلك فهي وجهة نظر لها أنصار في ميادين العلم ظاهرين على غيرهم و لا يضرهم من خذلهم حتى يأتي أمر الله.إلا أن نظريات الكاتب في التطور الاجتماعي للإنسان هي فريدة من نوعها إذ يدعى أن الإنسان هبة الصيد و أن الصيد ساعد على تكوين الأسرة و يبالغ في أوهامه العجيبة بادعاء أن الذكر كان يكتفى قديما بأنثى واحدة و هذا عجيب جدا لرجل غير عالم من أمثالي كنت أظن و ليس كل الظن إثم أن الرجل حتى الأن لم يكتف بأنثى واحدة إلا في أقصى مراحل المدنية و الحضارة و في بضع مئات من الكيلومترات من هذا الكوكب و تحديدا في الثواني الأخيرة من ساعة عمرنا البيولوجية.
Apparently this horrifically ableist language is unproblematic because we are dealing with the human animal as a mere meaty hunk of biological data here, not with personhood.As usual, my heckles are raised by the use of the male pronoun for humans in general, and I usually try hard to make allowances for old-fashioned conventions here, but in this case 'he' is indicative of Morris' stance.
Morris admits these are based on studies in North America, but claims this is fine because 'that culture' is 'biologically large and successful' and therefore 'representative of the naked ape' in general.
His book was popular and available in the Park Ridge public library where I read it.Fifteen and never been kissed.
I had loved one of them, Nancy Stinton, from sixth through eighth grade, carrying half her books home for her daily, but nothing had happened and, indeed, it was probably just enough to see her smile, to have the twenty minute conversation after school.But by fifteen, it was getting to be too much.
Now I was in high school, watching couples prominade from class to class, surrounded by beautiful women, most of them older than me.
Why do women wear high heels?
The book falls apart in the details though-- sweeping generalizations and odd assumptions about sexual behavior and gender roles and cultural supremacy without any supporting proof.
Just ideas and theories that seem almost comically colored by the author's dated biases.His ideas sometimes lean dangerously towards social Darwinism-- minority cultures with "bizarre" practices are aberrations in human evolution, and their behaviors can be dismissed as irrelevant to the discussion of human behavior.
Maybe that's ridiculous-- I want to read a book that presents and backs up these theories with actual data.
So, not this book.
Next time any of you wonder why I don't know what continent Spain is in, or why places that are further away have times that are closer or...keep in mind that my geography text book for the year was The Naked Ape. Well, I say it was that sort of school like it's to blame for my appalling ignorance of geography.
But truth be told, the next year I did chose an ordinary school - Methodist Ladies College - and blow me down if the maths teacher didn't turn out to be a girl who made us do things like write poetry.
این کتاب در سال 1349 با عنوان میمون برهنه توسط دکتر مهدی تجلی پور به فارسی برگردانده و پس از آن هرگز اجازه تجدید چاپ نیافته است.نویسنده "دزموند موریس" درین کتاب به شباهتهای رفتاری بین انسان و گونه های حیوانی خصوصا انواع میمونها می پردازد که بسیار قابل توجه و پس از کتاب منشا انواع داروین یکی از پرتیراژترین کتابهای علمی دنیا به شمار می رود.
كتاب جميل وخفيف في 200 صفحة يتحدث الفصل الأول عن ( الأصول ) التي تطور منها هذا الكائن من بداية خروجه من البحر إلى مرحلة القرد ، الى المرحلة الأخيرة ( القرد العاري ) أو الأنسان الفصل لثاني عن التطور الجنسي .. الثالث عن التطور في تربية الصغار .. ثم الاستطلاع وبعده القتال و الذي يرتبط بالفصل الذي يليه " المسعى في طلب الطعام " ثم النظافة .. ويختتم الكتاب بـ علاقة الانسان أو القرد العاري ببقية الحيوانات .. كتاب ممتع وجميل ..أنصح بقراءته
There are probably some aspects of this book which have been called into question by subsequent research findings, but in general the materials on the human evolutionary biology and psychology I've read in the meantime seem to support Morris's positions.When first published, this book was considered revolutionary because it attempted to describe the species homo sapiens from an objective zoologist's perspective.
There are other sections of the book, however, that begin to spread into the fields of sociology and psychology and therefore involve human interpretation.
Desmond Morris' "The Naked Ape" is not a quality book for individuals seeking to understand the nature of modern evolutionary psychology.
Morris' work is notable only for being a historical perspective into the origins of a discipline which has (since his book) taken on a dynamic and vibrant academic life.
If one can manage to make it past some of the glaring errors in his work (at one point he suggests that women evolved a trait because it was evolutionarily better for men - 'Uh, Desmond?
Evolution by natural or sexual selection doesn't work like that...'), the book itself is worth reading to discover just how far the field has come in only a few short decades.
For example that men go to work in attempt to satisfy the hunting urge together with other men, while women stay at home and take care of the children.
One of the points I liked best in this book was this "When you put a name on a door, or hang a painting on a wall, you are, in dog or wolf terms, for example, simply cocking your leg on them and leaving your personal mark there".
A few years ago I was feeling insecure at work and I promptly put a painting on the wall and pictures on my desk - very consciously marking my territory.
If The Naked Ape was a person I would marry it in a heartbeat under whatever terms it wished, and I would be more than happy to give my body over to producing as many of its children as I could because a book like this deserves to bear children more than most of us do.
Desmond Morris is an Anthropologist, and the person that made me decide that I, too, would like very much to be an Anthropologist, and The Naked Ape is a study of the Human Being as an animal.
القرد العاري في الكتاب لمحات وأفكار ممتعة ما خلا ذلك يبدو وكأنه ضرب بخلاط، ويجد القارئ صعوبة في تتبع فكرة المؤلف وما يريد الخروج به.

Un saggio strepitoso, geniale e anche divertente a suo modo. Il linguaggio è alla portata di tutti e non diventa mai pesante. Leggetelo!
Must read, para todo el que aspire a ser humano.
واضح إن السنه بادئة بكتب حلوة .. من الكتب اللي متعرفش تسيبها من غير ماتخلصها ..أسلوبه يشدك و معلوماته كتيرة وأجوبة على أسئلة كتير هتكون في بالك .
If you like your science with a heaping dose of sexism and homophobia, then this book's for you!This book was so entirely awful that I thought less of the person who recommended it to me.
I thought I'd discovered a secret key to measuring womankind, in a kind of Cosmo version of The Naked Ape. A friend in school saw my book and got very excited, but the secret knowledge within, well, that was only for me.Now that I've bought a steeply discounted paperback version, without the photos, Desmond Morris had said a great deal more, in a far better style, but with details which are remarkably less believable.
I'd only recently started this book: Brazzaville Beach, about chimpanzee researchers trying to hide growing suspicion of chimp cannibalism, so I was becoming slightly better informed about some of the harrier apes.
It's aged badly.
The author comes across as pretty full of himself -- he thinks his way of analyzing human behavior (from a zoological perspective) raises him above bias, but he's amusingly unaware of his own biases -- misogyny, homophobia, and anti-psychiatry, to name a few.It's still got some interesting parts, I guess, but I could only make it about halfway through before I got too bored.
The funny thing is that I really do think he has a good point; humans are animals and we should pay more attention to how our animal nature motivates us and affects our behavior.
معلومات مثيرة ومهمة عن الانسان والقردة والسعادين وبقية الحيوانات الاخرى.يتميز هذا الكتاب بكم هائل من المعلومات الملفتة للنظر في تطور الانسان عضويا وجنسيا واخيرا والاهم تطوره اجتماعيا...
هذا الجزء هو الاهم في مسيرة الانسان التطورية كون هذا التطور هو الكفيل باستمرارية وجود القرد العاري وهو الانسان على هذا الكوكب.كَبُرَ هذا القرد ام صغر هذا لا يغير حقيقته البيولوجية كحيوان آكل للحوم واناني.
ان لم يتمكن الانسان في تحسين نوعيته فأن هذا النمو الهائل والخطير في العدد سيؤدي الى انهيار خطير بهذا النوع من الانواع العليا من الحيوانات.كتاب جيد ومفيد واعتبره من الكتب الضرورية التي يتحتم على الباحث عن فهم ذاته ان يقرأه.
Mollo la lettura più o meno a metà, quindi il mio commento vale per ciò che ho letto.Sono sicura che 50 anni fa questo libro abbia avuto il suo impatto sociale e sconvolto qualcuno tra i più moralisti, ma oggi, a mio parere, certe osservazioni non sanno più di niente.
Non c'è una nozione che già non sapessi, non c'è una riflessione che non sappia di già superato o fastidiosamente sessista.
Osservare l'uomo da un punto di vista zoologico è interessante, ma qui viene fatto grossolanamente e con una ridondante fissazione per la sua sessualità.
Snervante e noioso.Insomma, come studio è proprio invecchiato male.
I think the concept of this approach to humans as an animal like any other is a brilliant one.
It is a really old book, which explains it, and it could undoubtedly do with some updating.If you're particularly attached to notions of humans as being sacred, set apart, etc, you won't want to read this.
And if you have any sexual hangups, you won't want to read this, either -- there's a whole chapter on sex.
I would have given "The Naked Ape" a 4-star rating based on its handling of human evolution and animal behavior, unfortunately 1960's style moralizing creeped in and caused me to lower my rating to a 3.
The boomer generation was really annoying in how they viewed themselves as saviors to the planet when they were really just as selfish and materialistic as their parents (and less moral and responsible).
Even with those reservations, the descriptions of human and animal behavior and human evolution are very good and fresh even after 40 years on the shelf.
Some of the crucial aspects of human evolution and primate behavior have been tweaked since publication.
One doesn't pick up this sort of book looking to 'get off' but let me tell you (!) the opening chapters on sexuality are very arousing.
I had to stop reading and satisfy my er, appetite several times before moving on to the next chapters.
If only to stimulate yourself without anyone catching on--or while posing as erudite or whatever-- this book is terrific.Otherwise, sure he makes many interesting points about the biological basis for certain of our human tendencies--and I appreciate his attempting to coherently draw a line between the biological and the cultural--but there is this creeping morality underlying much of what he talks about particularly towards the middle and end of the book that is off-putting.Definitely something you can take into the tub and finish in an hour or so (as long as you're not counting the times you'll put it down to masturbate).
Randomness means that the creatures needs are irrelevant, the changes occur randomly and only then can it be selected as an evolutionary advantage.Take any page of this book and count how many "had to" are there.
Humans needed to become better hunters so the developed a thumb, an erect spine and different limb proportions!
First: There is no necessity there, nature had made better hunters without these unprecedented tools.
Third: why should nature care what a creature needs?
Morris, however, says it's simple: Man needed to communicate better during his hunts so voila ..
The questions and insights raised about human nature far outweigh any omissions due to the inadequate science of the times.What one can find fault with is several arguments and generalizations made about culture that the author roots in 'historical' evidence.
The author ascribes changes in sexual practices and gender roles as something modern - a sign that we have outgrown our biology.
Our environment has changed and our biology is simply shifting into a gear not visited for generations.
While certainly not the definitive text on the subject, for someone who wants a quick introduction to a combination of human biology and anthropology, I would highly recommend this book.
Humans typically have only a quarter of the adult brain size at birth, and its growth is completed only around 23 years of age, long after the individual has attained sexual maturity.
Infantile apes are generally having less hair than adults in their species and we fixed upon this trait throughout the entire life.
Before evolving into cooperative hunters, humans lived in social groups as seen in other species of apes and monkeys.
When that community turned to group hunting, the leader lost his god-like status.
Per tutto il libro Morris si riferisce a noi (da intendersi come esseri umani) con l'epiteto di scimmioni nudi e direi che tutto sommato è azzeccatissimo.
Come zoologo lo scrittore si propone di identificare quali siano i comportamenti che hanno permesso all'essere umano di sopravvivere e anzi di emergere come specie dominante su tutte, nonostante delle sue diciamo "pecche fisiche" sostanziali.
Ne emerge un quadro anche divertente sulla sensualità dell'essere umano, unica specia di scimmia ad essere sprovvista di peli, cosa che sostanzialmente lo mette in crisi, perchè quello che la genetica gli impone e quello che la mente gli propone sono a volte (spesso) in netto contrasto.
The conceit of this book is to cast a zoologist's eye over the human species, reporting its behaviour as we would any other species.
The argument is that humans reveal today, irrespective of layers of reason and culture, our inherent natures as a fruit-eating, forest-dwelling social ape turned carnivorous hunter on the savanna.On the other hand, it's not clear how much of this populist treatment is rooted in real science.
And it seems anything can be explained when you can pick and choose from our mixed heritage (from forest and savanna).
But that would have resulted in a longer and less entertaining treatment.The book's vintage shows through too.
