https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/342163.Porgy
Porgy has been sitting on my shelf since the legendary Frogtown Books closed and sold out their collection.
In anticipation of this Friday's performance of Gershwin's opera by Toledo Opera, I knew it was time to take it down and read it.
What a beautiful book.
All the characters I knew from various arias from the opera are there in the flesh, artfully described by Heyward.
The descriptions of his beloved Charleston are rich and evocative, heavy with humidity, sea breezes and salt air, fish markets and cobbled streets.
The Gullah people of Catfish Row come alive through Heyward's depictions and painstaking use of dialect.
Heyward created some unforgettable characters with Crown, Bess's violent past lover, Sportin' Life, a drug dealer who leads Bess astray, and Maria, the fierce owner of the local cafe where they all hang out in Catfish Row. These and a cast of many other unique characters form the main cast that gives this book its amazing life and colorful feel.
By the '70s however, times had changed enough for people to begin to appreciate the nuances of this book and the small slice of black life it presented.
The rich sense of community and life-giving support it shows the people of Catfish Row providing each other more than makes up for the seamier aspects.
I had no idea he'd existed apart from Bess and from the Gershwin musical.
Porgy is a beggar, so crippled he has to be carried, and he begs in dowtown Charleston, trundled there by his friend Peter, a meek man who is used and abused by others.
Apart from what its become, opera upon opera upon opera, the book itself is a neighborhood story.
At the core is a love story that develops between Porgy & Bess, a Mary Magdalene figure.
And finally, Porgy reminded me of a most amazing man, also with bum legs who begged on Queen Street in The Beach in Toronto.
"— Os homens e as mulheres não são iguais — comentou Porgy. — Há um mês viviam elas com os seus maridos. O temporal levou-os. Pois já se esqueceram deles e entregam-se aos que vêm depois.— Não, a verdade não é essa — replicou Bess — e nunca hás-de compreender. Elas têm filhos a sustentar. São mulheres, e para mais negras. Fazem o que podem, e é tudo."(página 93)
Porgy was a really great novel.
Dubose Heyward brought to life the black community of South Carolina of the early 1920s.
The story had interesting and some sweet characters.
Poor disabled beggar Porgy had a lovely caring heart.
Especially for Bess, he was always helping her with her troubles.
So she wound up staying with Porgy.
I understood that all of the southern slang made sense in that period of time.
I could see why 'Porgy' was the first major southern novel to portray African Americans outside of their stereotypes.
Unfortunately it is not on DVD.
Let's just hope they make it into dvd soon.
Really enjoyed this.
It was a quick read.
Heyward is very poetic and descriptive.
It definitely helps that I had already seen "Porgy and Bess" and knew the story, because sometimes the language was a bit difficult.
I got better at reading the Gullah dialogue as I went on, but I would like to listen to this one read aloud someday.
The forward by Dorothy Heyward as well as the afterward both helped to put this novel in historical perspective.
I could "hear" some of Gershwin's music in my head as I read this!
Always interesting to read the original version of this iconic story.
I didn't read it in this book; I read it in "Famous plays of the 1920s" but it's not on good reads. I adore this play; I couldn't get enough of it while reading it and now that I'm through, I'm wishing there were more pages! Crown, Porgy, Bess-- love tension at its best!
I just can't get through the language...maybe there's a movie somewhere?
If you are the kind of person who loves walking on hot coals or having shards of bamboo shoved under your fingernails, you absolutely must read this book.
Ain't yuh 'member how dat cool win' come tuh town wid de smell ob pine tree; an' how de star is all polish up lak w'ite folks' silber ?
'A week gone, an' she ain't none better.' Peter knocked out his clay pipe on a flagstone, with three staccato little raps, thus gaining the attention of the circle.'Ef yuh wants tuh listen tuh me,' he remarked weightily, 'I adwise yer tuh sen' she tuh de w'ite folk' hospital.'His words were received with a surprise amounting to incredulity.'Fuh Gawd sake, Daddy Peter !' an awed voice said at last.
One ob my w'ite folks is er nuss tuh de hospital; and dat lady is er pure angel wid de sick nigger.
I found this book to be quite interesting, but the language somewhat difficult. I can't ignore the context of a white, early century author writing the main characters who are not. The dialect of Gullah is easier to figure out to me when spoken, but the frequency of N words made that not something that was going to happen. I actually haven't seen Porgy and Bess, but love a kids book the author also wrote.
The basis for the Gershwin epic American golf opera.
A novella or extended short story with flashes of beautiful prose. One has to wonder whether the author's apparently sincere attempt at rendering African-American dialect from the steamboat era is exaggerated. It is certainly hard to parse, in ways that Mark Twain never is. The drama itself is very good.
[Porgy:] was waiting, waiting with the concentrating intensity of a burning-glass." (pp.
17-18)Worldly, strong-willed Maria, keeper of the community's moral compass, describes alpha male Crown, the stevedore: "'Dem sort ob mens ain't need tuh worry 'bout habin' 'omen....
103)Bess confesses to Porgy the obsessions that rule her: "'W'en I tek dat dope, I know den dat I ain't yo' kin'.
An' w'en Crown put he han' on me dat day, I run tuh he like water.
An' some day Crown goin' put he han' on my t'roat.
It goin' be like dyin' den.
W'en dem time come, I goin' tuh go.'" (pg.
The year in which Bess came to him and stayed with him and changed the monotony of his days and his life.
I found it intersting, though when Bess comes into Porgy and the other residents of Catfish Row's life, I found it to obscure Porgy's thoughts and feelings.
The book came to follow Bess and the other residents instead of how Porgy was thinking and feeling.
And when the title boasts "Porgy," I naturally thought the book to revolve about him.
I simply thought I would have more insight into the title's character than I feel I did.
I have read and re-read this book many times. The hardest part about it is reading it in the Gullah dialect, but by the first couple of chapters, I could hear the characters speaking in my mind. I have never seen the play Porgy and Bess, nor do I think I want to. In my mind, the characters in Catfish Row are who they are. I wouldn't want to tarnish that image. It's one of the best and overlooked books ever.
There is nothing I could say that could polish this gem of a story. Latern jawed is the word I would use to describe this book. 221 pages; the print is a width of 3 inches; 10 1/2 in. in length. A story from the '20's. Update: Reading this book was like gazing at the stars. The language is so pretty. The characters were stalwart in certain circumstances though not completely dissimilar.I do wish there was a grocery store setting in this story though.Have a good day~jk
i HAD WANTED TO READ THIS BOOK FOR MANY YEARS. tHE WAITING WAS WORTH IT. iT WAS WONDERFUL. PORGY IS A CHARACTER YOU NEVER FORGET AS IS BESS.THE BOOK WAS PERFECT. ALL OTHER AUTHORS SHOULD STUDY HEYWARD.
In studying Porgy and Bess - found out that it was based on this book, so I checked it out. Enjoyable, quick read plus there's a hurricane in the middle so that was fun. Can see where Gershwin got his inspiration.
I read this to get a better understanding of Gershwin's opera, which I performed as a choir member with the Charleston Symphony Orchestra in September 2009.
After studying George Gershwin with my students during the month of March, I decided I wanted to read the book that inspired his American Opera "Porgy and Bess." We'll see if I make it through.
this is the book that the play was based on and it is wonderful. Have seen the play many times over the years and it took me months to find this copy of the book. well worth the wait.
After I read Folly Beach by Dorothea Benton Frank, I was interested in the writing of the Heywards. Having read Porgy, I have ordered the musical, Porgy & Bess.
Interesting back store about this author from Folley Beach novel got me started reading DuBose Heyward boods. His children's book is a wonderful tale of persuverance and strength too.
Language a bit hard to read at first but improved with reading.
Wonderful story that I had not read in many years. Fabulous sketches by Elizabeth O'Neill Verner. Found the description of the hurricane particularly awesome...having lived through a few.
It's surprising how easy it is to understand Gullah if you're patient enough! Really enjoyed it then dragged my partner round half of Charleston trying to find catfish row while we were on holiday.
Lost interest and didn't finish it. It's probably better with music, lol!
