https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1369347.The_Adventures_of_Mr_Pink_Whistle
The story of a man who seeks to set things right(7 Sept 2012) This is a collection of stories about a half-brownie named Mr Pinkwhistle. One day Mr Pinkwhistle realises that bad things seem to happen to good people so he decides that he will use is abilities to actually try to set things right for these people because it hurts him to see all of these bad things happen. This is a very noble cause, and not only that, I also notice that it is not just a nice person helping people out, but rather a
While the idea of trying to set things right is a noble cause (such as buying a new doll for a girl who had hers broken, or buying some good clothes for a poor family) seeking vengeance against bad people is probably not something that we should be encouraging children to do.
While it is true that we should look after our pets by making sure they are fed and given clean places to live, I don't think stealing the bad owner's food, or messing up their bedrooms a good thing.
I used to read a lot of Enid Blyton stories as a child and was bowled over to find one I had not read yet.
Mr Pink-Whistle is a half brownie and half human with a secret that he had never used.
Mr Pink-Whistle is able to make himself invisible.
He uses his invisibility to help people that have been dealt really unfair cards, like Mrs Spink's washing that gets ruined again and again, which meant that her children would not have clean clothes to wear to attend their first party.
A lovely moral to the stories and a very sweet, innocent book.
Another sweet collection of Mr Pink-Whistle’s adventures where he once again goes about setting right things for children and grown-ups, and also some animals to whom life, circumstances, or other people have been unfair. One story was an overlap with another collection I just read.
The Adventures of Mr Pink Whistle was my first experience reading a novel at age 4. I loved this series dearly, and I love Enid Blyton.
I’m a sucker for Robin Hood stories. Turns out I am a sucker for them even if the villains are one-dimensional and the helpless citizens are sometimes so sweet they are liable to give me cavities.
Mr. Pinkwhistle was another of my most-favorite EB characters! In later years I gently nudged these books on to my daughter, who loved them as well. I was by then affluent enough to afford to BUY books (as opposed to reading them from the library), so now we have a grand collection of EB books. Maybe one day her child will get excited at these books too.
Read this when I was a little kid. I can't remember rightly what they're about now... but I read them over and over. I bet I couldn't stand them now, but for a young child Enid Blyton is so magical and takes you away into this fantastic world.
Not one of my favourite Enid Blyton books. I think I read this one when I was too old to appreciate it much.
