https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/205636.The_Dean_s_Watch
Although Isaac the clockmaker and the Dean belong to completely different social circles, they become friends through their shared interests in horology (clockmaking), and they begin to affect each other’s lives in unexpected ways.
Equally important are the non-human characters in the story: the town cathedral that inspires the Dean and many others, but whose size and darkness scare Isaac to death.
As the Dean watches over the city in his twilight years, he learns more than he ever thought he would about loving and helping people, and how much the people around him also love him.Highly recommended!!
"About the novels of Elizabeth Goudge there is always something of the fairy-tale, and The Dean's Watch is full of the enchantment of goodness- it has the timelessness that marks the author's best work"The Scotsman"  From the back cover of my copy - & I don't know if I can improve on this review quotation. I'll try.I wasn't well whilst I was reading this novel, so I had trouble getting into it at first, gave it another shot & was swept into a world of magic!My sisters are wonderful peop
"About the novels of Elizabeth Goudge there is always something of the fairy-tale, and The Dean's Watch is full of the enchantment of goodness- it has the timelessness that marks the author's best work"The Scotsman"  From the back cover of my copy - & I don't know if I can improve on this review quotation.
For me, the best of Goudge's writing has that quality.
I enjoyed feeling that much emotion!This would be an ideal Christmas read and I may reread then to get the whole Goudge experience.
My copy is illustrated.
At first The Dean's Watch seems no more consequential than a lovely tour through a picturesque English village, with a little talk about the town's history and the craft of watchmaking offered after tea.Then the first accident happens: Isaac Peabody, an elderly, desperately shy watchmaker has two repaired watches to return to their owners, but somehow, a watch paper inscribed with a bit of doggerel verse has gone missing from one customer's watch and ends up inserted in the watchcase of the brilliant and terrifying Dean of Ely's great cathedral.
The city that is not London of voluminous strangers.And we get here 4 to 10 exact personal prisms of individual personalities for the people who have lived in this fen placed city, all of their lives.
Like a jigsaw 2000 piece set with 10 key pieces missing.But beyond this tremendous frame for the art in this novel- Elizabeth Goudge has a masterpiece of individuals' evaluations upon themselves in the center in spectacular oils.
Yet it is not free from all sorrow.They are flawed, these everyday people.
6 StarsAnd I know they were not contemporaries, but why is Dickens read and not Goudge.
I see her categorized as a Christian author, and her books often have religious themes woven closely through them; and yet she can get much too mystical for my taste, to the point where I wonder whether the Christianity presented in her books is genuine or something to be handled with caution.In The Dean's Watch, the bothersome elements include the complete blurring of the lines between the Catholicism in the history of the fictional cathedral town and the (presumably) Church of England diocese now established there; and too much of a sense of spiritual things being bound up in things and places—i.e. the way it always seems to be the Cathedral itself exercising some sort of mystical influence over the people, not purely their relationship to God.The theme of the story is the beauty that results from people showing genuine love (not in a romantic sense) for each other, and mostly this seems to be correctly traced back to the influence of divine love on them.
"Could mere loving be a life's work?"I cannot tell you how much I loved this book...how much the "simple" act of loving, of reaching out beyond ourselves has far reaching consequences. A timely and beautiful challenge to me as a wife, mother, and friend. This book moved me to tears and Goudge's characters mean SO much to me, her sense of place is WONDERFUL...I was transformed to this cathedral town. The nature descriptions were vivid and gorgeous. Sigh.
This book stands at the top of my list of favorite novels. It's an old-fashioned story but one with such depth and spirituality, wisdom, and beautiful writing that it has found its way into my heart and remains there. Whenever I feel a real need for comfort and truth I know I can turn to Elizabeth Goudge's books and find it in abundance. I love almost everything Goudge has written but in my opinion this is, without question, her best. Highest recommendation, a book to treasure and re-read often.
Until now life for him had meant the aridity of earthly duty and the dews of God. Now he was aware of something else, a world that was neither earth nor heaven, a heartbreaking, fabulous, lovely world where the conies take refuge in the rainbowed hills and in the deep valleys of the unicorns the songs are sung that men hear in dreams, the world that the poets know and the men who make music."Even in her realistic stories, like this one - set in a Cathedral city in England during the 1870s - there is the trademark Goudge whimsy, always alive to the magic of the world.
Elizabeth Goudge’s writing style is rich and descriptive and bears a fairytale quality, yet tells stories of realistic settings and daily life.
They are English Victorians and therefore lead interesting lives, vastly different from my own, but yet familiar and loveable because I know aspects of their world from classic literature.The setting is a character in itself.
Just like the human characters, you wish you could know this setting in person!
It makes the story tangible…our lives are full of physical objects that we ascribe importance to, and that come to symbolize to us significant events or people.
That image of Isaac the watchmaker stooped over his work in the lamp lit workshop is just so endearing to me.
Within the covers of this book, an individual has power to lift people and effect change in a way I believe is possible but rarely witness in real life.
She is so good at creating atmosphere, I thoroughly enjoyed this world she created, and wished I could stay.
Each individual carries a light, it seems - how else can I describe it?!!
The world out here seems very cold by comparison, even though it follows the same pattern.
This book is the fire to warm our hands by.
Very old-fashioned, very spiritual but never preachy or saccharine.Goudge has such a way with characters--every one of the people she involves in her story is so real, so nuanced.
And Miss Montague, a very wise and wonderful old woman who knows that love is the answer.
And the two young people, Polly (who is naturally happy) and Job (needs to find happiness), and...
This one will stick with me for a long time.Now to track down a copy for my own shelves, preferably one with the lovely line drawings by A R Whitear.
The library wants their copy back.
Instead of making them victims or underdogs, she is able to magnify the strengths that each character has developed as a result of their suffering.
In the case of this book, she explores horology (a new word to me!), the art of making clocks and watches.
You have to think about them and I prefer that over overtly "preachy" insights.The title has a dual interpretation---just lovely!
Here are a few quotes I highlighted:"There was nowadays an integrity about his obstinancy; his refusal to accept his father's God had in it something of the courage and fire of the true faith.""Could mere loving be a life's work?
This was my first Elizabeth Goudge novel, and it will not be my last.So many wonderful characters - the Dean, his cold but beautiful wife, his many friends in the cathedral city: clockmaker Isaac, his brilliant apprentice Job, the elderly invalid Miss Montague, and the terrifying toddler (wasn’t sure of her exact age), Bella.
I think my personal favorite character was Polly, an orphan girl who keeps house for Isaac and Emma; she personifies love and comfort and joy to everyone around her.
I sometimes come away from reading Goudge with mixed feelings: always enchanted but also sometimes slightly disappointed.
I think I've finally found her masterpiece in "The Dean's Watch".What I love about Goudge is that she is a spiritual and poetic writer.
It's also encouraging to read about the Dean's un-self-conscious effect for good on Isaac and on a whole city of individuals.
In The Dean's Watch, the good qualities of Goudge's writing shine so much as to outweigh any little flaws.
For me, the lyricism in "The Dean's Watch" is just right, without being too much.
Of course she has to have her dig at Cromwell and the puritans, but that's over early in the book so I had plenty of time to get over it.
I think this is a far better novel, and it is mainly about people who are already in their own little chosen hells, and are gripped and drawn out of them by irresistible grace.
(I'm of the mind that Goudge was on the side of the Puritans without knowing it.) It is a novel that is unblinking about the cost of love, the high cost of coming out of your own safe little hell into the unpredictable heaven of loving God and others.
Beautiful Christian writing without that sticky sweet bit that too much of the more modern Christian writing gets. This is fantastic stuff. Loved it. Too many exquisite passages to include here. Too many real heart felt interactions. Finely chiseled humor. Glorious.There, I gushed. I'm done now.
Goudge fans know that her fiction is infused with deep themes and this book is no exception. It's a beautiful story about the cost of loving. One of my ten all-time favorite books.
This was my third attempt at this book, and now I know why I didn't succeed the first two times.
Now I realize that I had not given her time to work her wordsmithing on me.
The reader will see something of herself in all these characters and be reminded to intentionally change those bad qualities and cling to those good ones.Quotes to remember:"The books were like rooms in a great house and the pictures were lamps lit in the rooms to show them to him.""There is no more satisfactory sight than a lighted bookshop in the dusk, and his heart glowed.""It had been a busy day .
A book from an earlier time does not necessarily have to -feel- antique.
It takes Goudge a good half of the book to tour us around the cathedral town it is set in and introduce us to all the characters.
The plot does pick up in the latter half of the book, but go elsewhere for breakneck adventure.
This alone will make the work uncongenial for the modern reader; three quarters of them will fall off the sled before the pace picks up.The other very old-fashioned feature is how nearly everyone's problems are self-caused and rooted in personality.
Again, a lovely book.
Goudge's ability to paint with words and light at the same time is moving and engaging.
These are not plot driven books; they are character driven.
The romance here is between the author and humanity.
Goudge's characters are full, complex, flawed—people you can really love.
If you are a reader who is looking for the kind of cheap romance you get in the dark, paranormal current stuff, you won't be interested in this - it demands too much of the heart and mind.
But if you love art in language and real human engagement, you'll love this book.
Some people may call Elizabeth Goudge's writing wordy, but that's okay by me because she chooses beautiful words. She artistically weaves them into touching stories with well-developed, memorable characters. Her descriptive scenes bring to life what would otherwise be overlooked. In this book I especially liked the unlikely friendships the Dean made, how he affected those he befriended, and how they affected him.
Incredibly, read-it-to-me-again beautiful! Can't wait to get my hands on another Elizabeth Goudge novel!
Rating Clarification: 4.5 Stars
This is a beautiful book. I think it will take me a while to process it. So many truths woven throughout the story. I have no idea why the cover pictured has a girl on it! The main characters are both older men.
Spoiler alert: There are several conflicts to be knitted up before the end of the story: the bitterness and anger between Isaac and his sanctimonious sister Emma, the tender romance between Polly and Job, but most tragic of all the hopeless love story of the Dean and his apparently unrequited affection for his beautiful young wife Elaine.
"It has been a long day for you."  "Not as tired as usual," she said...and she added softly, looking away from him, "It has been a happy Christmas Day. I liked your sermon, Adam." She had never said that before and his heart seemed to make a physical movement of joy.
The first person we meet is Isaac Peabody, a watchmaker, who goes about the city winding the clocks of his customers.
The other main character is Adam, the Dean, who loves the city, the people and especially his wife, but knows that he isn't always loved back in turn by any of them.
Others are swept along with them and as a reader, so are you.The main theme of the book is love, whether for a thing, person, God or just with love itself.
It's brilliantly written and you almost feel as if these are real people that the author is describing.
I have read it several times and love it more with each experience.
It is the story of the Dean of a cathedral city in England, set around the year 1865.
He has literally worn himself out in the service of the citizens of the city.
Their friendship will have a ripple effect on many of the lives that touch theirs, spreading beyond their immediate circle to effect most of the city.
This is a story of good people, striving to be better.
I love the gentleness of the characters.
I love the greatness of the cathedral and what it represents of the goodness and mercy of God.
A simple clockmaker contentedly pursuing his craft in southern England of the 1870s takes time to insert small "watch papers" into the covers of some of the watches he's repaired. This seemingly insignificant action sets into motion a tide of spiritual change among many of the residents of this cathedral town. Elizabeth Goudge paints a vivid portrait of the many people in this book whose lives are woven together by the power of love put into action. A beautiful story; HIGHLY recommended!
It is difficult to describe the sense of history, the portraiture of characters, the magic, the humour that are all to be found in Elizabeth Goudge's books. She was a great natural story-teller. She also had a profound sense of spirituality that gently pervades her work. It doesn't control or advise, it is simply present. This book is an old friend.
I've read this twice a couple years ago, but I'm still unsure of my rating. This author is an astounding author, and I love her description, but I've always been confused by her theology (especially because I know it's not exactly Scriptural), and so I'd like to re-read this at some point to give better thoughts on it.
