https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/127515.Invasion_of_the_Body_Snatchers
I haven't actually sat down and watched either the 1956 or '78 movies (though I have seen The World's End, the Wright/Pegg loose take on it), so the plot hadn't been fully spoiled and reading the book would provide some surprises and a bit of entertainment.
I just realized that I'm writing this review in a cagey manner, trying my best to avoid spoilers, such as mentioning that alien beings invade Earth in order to obtain individuals, a sort of invasion of body snatchers, if you will.
Yeah, I wouldn't want to give anything away!Even if you're quite aware of the plot, and how can you not be, you will nonetheless probably find this an enjoyable read.
2.5 stars. Now before you think I am about to go all RANTBO on this SF classic, let me say almost mostly partially unequivocally, that I did not DISLIKE this book. I mean I don't recall ever having a meltdown moment like this while reading it:  It’s just that.........WAIT.........back up, I have mispoken as the above is not exactly true. There was one point in the story where DoctorDanny Kauffman, amateur physicist and apparent moron, tells our narrator that the sunlight...SUNLIGHT...shining on
I do acknowledge that a major focus of the story was to create a sense of paranoia analogous to the “isms” of the 1950‘s, mainly the “who can you trust” feeling inspired by the McCarthy communist witch hunts of the period.
I also appreciated the parallel drawn in the story to the McCarthy period by have the narrator depict people that he has known for years as suddenly not being “the same” and feeling somehow alien.
I liked that and think that the author did a very good job with that aspect of the story.
If I was not already familiar with the storyline, it would have scared the pants off me!Anyway, his "old" tale from the 1950's is not without a few minor flaws, (view spoiler)[i.e., the too fast deterioration of the buildings and roads come to mind (hide spoiler)], but for the most part, a super entertaining and worthwhile read.
(the skeleton scene is by far my favorite)If you have not read this novel and like science fiction, (view spoiler)[take a fast trip to the small town of Mill Valley, meet Dr. Miles and his old flame Becky, and experience the alien parasites from outer space that replicate your body if you dare to fall asleep.
Becky persuades Miles to investigate immediately and they both drive to the house of Ira Lentz in Miles' 1973 Mercedes two-seater (Jack Finney's novel was published in 1955, thus The Body Snatchers is near-future sf).Miles pulls up and sees Uncle Ira out on his lawn, the same Mr. Lentz he has known since delivering papers as a kid.
Then it happens: Miles' friend Jack Belicec, a writer of fiction, grabs Miles on evening as the doctor and Becky are watching a film at the local movie house.
If there are any aliens reading this who are looking for a body to take over, hmu.
I will not (repeat: NOT) attempt to save the world through any self-destructive means necessary like these buffoons.Just let me know.Anyway this book was mildly entertaining but had a really awful boring female character (read: love interest) who almost never did anything except to cling to Our Hero's elbow and, like, make him carry her and cry into his chest and dumb damsel sh*t like that.
(But to the aliens: I definitely am interested still please message me for my contact info my inbox is open kthanksbye.)
One of the most original SF novels I have ever read - the undercurrent commentary on socialization and identification of 'otherness' should put this book on the shelf of anyone studying social science.
4.5 stars! An excellent story and this narrator, Kristoffer Tabori did it justice.
Invasion of the Body Snatchers landed in the bi-weekly fiction magazine Collier's, which published Jack Finney's story as a three-part serial over consecutive issues beginning in November 1954.
Connecting the corpse with the imposter stories spreading through town, Miles suggests that Theodora keep watch on the body while her husband sleeps, waking him if she notices any changes in the corpse.
Later, Miles realizes that mass delusion doesn't account for the blank fingerprints, or the fact that the Mannie he knows never used to make his mind up so quickly.Miles and his friends determine that the seed pods popping up in basements first appeared near a farm outside of town, visitors from outer space, of course.
Reto #1 PopSugar 2018: Un libro hecho en una película que ya has visto Cumplido este reto por partida doble, ya que de las cuatro adaptaciones al cine que se han hecho de esta novela, he visto las últimas dos: la muy gore versión de 1993 dirigida por Abel Ferrara y la muy descafeinada versión del 2007 que protagonizaran Nicole Kidman y Daniel Craig. Creo que aprovecharé el impulso de esta lectura y me pondré al día con la versión que en 1978 dirigió Philip Kaufman, considerada por la crítica co
Desconozco si esto último es ficción o no, pero a pesar que son curiosas, no encontré el sentido de incluirlas en el libro.
Even so, I would still recommend it with the reservations I have mentioned so far.Notes:• I absolutely love the 1978 movie version of Invasion of the Body Snatchers.
Make of that what you will, unfortunately, what I know about McCarthyism can be written on a UK postage stamp and still leave the queen’s head unblemished.• Thank you, Cecily, for reminding me of another classic sci-fi horror The Thing, three adaptations made (from the novella  Who Goes There?), again the second version (directed by John Carpenter) is the best.Quotes:“I warn you that what you're starting to read is full of loose ends and unanswered questions.
There were a few science elements that really strained my suspension of belief, but I found it easy enough to roll with them for the story's sake.I've read this before, but it's been decades & most of my memories are of my favorite film version, the 1978 remake with Donald Sutherland, Brooke Adams, Leonard Nimoy, Jeff Goldblum, & Veronica Cartwright, although it's been done 4 times.
I don't know how anyone could be, but just in case...The obvious horror element that people seem to remember, the movies & critics concentrate on is that pods can so perfectly duplicate people that almost no one can tell them from the real one, but they're lacking the vital spark that makes them human, so are a dead end.
Some trove from the 50s and its brooding obsessions! First-rate immersion thanks to the dialogue which feels like one in some good ol' corny Hollywood script! :)
A pretty sinister book, this, containing some really creepy moments.
It also happens to be written quite well, so, it goes without saying that I enjoyed it.
Another forerunner of modern horror, The Body Snatchers, along with I Am Legend, pretty much set the stage for modern paranormal horror a la King, Koontz and co.
Both of these books happen to be in the Science Fiction Masterworks series, as well.There is some oddball science in here, but come on!
It was written in the fifties, and still carries a hefty punch.
A commentary on 50s politics?
A terrifying story about alien life that takes over human beings but with always a little sprankle of hope and perseverance that humankind can be saved. Suspenseful read.
THE BODY SNATCHERS (the longer title came later) first appeared as a serial in the general-interest magazine COLLIER'S in 1954, then was published as a novel the year later.
As a book, BODY SNATCHERS is more influential than outstanding in its prose and composition.
When it first appeared, the mysterious "invading force" was seen as a metaphor for the depersonalization of Soviet Communism; two decades later for gentrification, as in the 1978 movie remake set in San Francisco.
It's a quick but highly influential read.
"We have met the enemy and he is us" Pogo (Walt Kelly)I have seen the original version of the movie and the 1977 version of the movie and let me tell you the book is actually scarier.
This is a book about fear and apathy.
Our protagonists briefly leave town and come back and begin to notice how their town is falling apart, wearing out and not being repaired.
But they had to leave to notice because the gradual decay was ignored.The book was originally written in the 1950s then the author updated it in 1978 to coincide with the remake of the movie.
Things are what they are with you, as we have reason to know.’”Sounds like our protagonist, who is also the first-person narrator in this story, is quite an exceptional person in his readiness to face reality at all costs, even if this means standing up against the majority of the people around him and becoming a pain in the ass to them as well as challenging his own long-cherished lines of thinking to make them adapt to new insight he has gained instead of forcing this new data to match in with preconceived notions.
Finney's prose to the excellent characters he develops all play into a story that felt fresh and original, even though I've been familiar with it (and the many film reiterations) for years.
The pace of the book is almost perfect, unraveling the mystery a little at a time, but it really is the characters that carry this novel along.
Maybe it was the times the book was written in, but for once in my life, I felt the movie version was far superior as far as the ending went.That being said, this was one of the most enjoyable reads I've read all year.
Great sci-fi story. If you're looking for that 1950s pulp fiction-Dell publishing kind of story, you've got it. I wish I could write a story like this. The feel of it, the characters, the small town nostalgia. Excellent novel. Awesome read.
As to the book itself, it's workmanlike, well-crafted, warm-hearted and, though it employs the same timewasting attention to trivial detail as most suspense novels, it never seems as though the author is simply playing for time.
The ending, it's true, is terrible, and if I hadn't already seen the 50s film version I would have been pretty disappointed, but as it was I'd been imagining the brilliant end to that film repeatedly since I'd started the book, and I was easily able to substitute it in my memory when the time came.
A far cry from how he would have been marketed at the time!) What's the reason?
Because I can never have enough books, ever.Another side note: I've never watched either of the Invasion of the Body Snatchers films.
I mean, how WOULD YOU KNOW who you could trust when everyone looked the same and talked the same and knew all of the same things they knew before they were alienized?
Invasion of the Body Snatchers is so typical of the 1950's science fiction scene, with the world - at that time - completely obsessed with the idea of alien invasion.
There are a lot of similar themes explored in both although that being distinctly English in feel and this is most definitely American.The only other book by this author I've read is Time and Again (which, in this updated version to coincide with the film adaptation in the 70's, is referenced at one point in the story) and this is recognisably in a similar narrative style although thematically this is a very different book.I was tempted to rate this five stars but unfortunately there are a few flaws that mar it.
Over the years I think that I have seen every film version of this sci fi story and they range from the superb (1956 & 1978) to the good (1993) to the poor (2007). Finally I've read Jack Finney's original story & I am amazed at how great it turned out to be. The tension he creates is incredible & the dialogue between the characters pulls the reader into the story & makes an unbelievable situation seem very credible. What a classic.
I listen to this as an audible book which was delightfully and excellently read. It is the story from the 1950s that is far as I can remember I have never experienced. Probably because there is maybe no moral to the story other than man is able to solve any problems that he faces. Or maybe that you should never give up. I loved listening to it.
But source novels are another question, and now that I have finally read Finney's original, I can happily say that it stands as a quite-solid thrill machine, besting its first big-screen adaptation in several departments, if not all.Unlike the first film, which transpired in the fictitious California town of Santa Mira, Finney sets "Invasion of the Body Snatchers" in Mill Valley (just one of many touches of verisimilitude in the book), in the futuristic time of, uh, autumn 1976.
Another one of those classic novels that inspired multiple cult-classic films, but have rarely been read by the people who saw the movie(s).Invasion of the Body Snatchers is a classic "B" movie, and this book is a classic "B" novel.
They enlist others who have also realized the same thing, and skeptics like another psychotherapist.The aliens are really less interesting than the psychological tension created by the story, first as the reader, like the protagonist, is forced to wonder whether there really is an alien invasion going on or if people are simply losing their minds, and then, as it becomes evident that people really are being replaced by aliens, by the question of who's really an alien and who can be trusted.
Certainly most people will be aware of the gist of the story - alien space plants come down to Earth and start replicating people with a view to taking over the planet - but many people will be vague on the details.
It is the ending that lets the story down, as (view spoiler)[the humans win by basically refusing to surrender, so the aliens run away, presumably to look for a less independently minded place to take over.
The remaining pod people only have a life span of 5 years, so they are left to die out naturally (hide spoiler)] The ending is so abrupt and out of the blue that you wonder if the author changed his mind about it.
As a defender of the film I'm an increasingly lonely voice, especially since my contention is that most viewers interpret it as an "anti-communist allegory" simply because they've been told that's what it is by revisionist movie critics, who like to see such allegories in all 50s sci-fi movies.
Finney has bigger fish to fry, like, say, the nature of humanity, and what it means to be human.In short, good, fast moving entertainment, including the much talked about "sense of wonder" that so many critics look for in their science fiction.
The book is set in 1976, 20 years into Jack Finney's future and it's remarkably unchanged. The story of space seeds infesting the Earth and, in order to survive, merge with human hosts, is a chilling concept especially as it is learned that humans are robbed of their imagination and heightened emotions. Narrated by a California doctor, its a gripping, slowly unfolding story.The editor in me notes that the characters could have done things differently in order to alert the general public but these are minor quibbles.
This was definitely better than what I anticipated, since I already seen The World's End which is a funny, loose take on the Invasion of the Body Snatchers.
Even though I may have seen most things a mile away due to the movie, the story remains to be very creepy even up to this day.
What took me by surprise was that, Dr. Miles Bennell was the most likeable character that I've encountered in a long time, just an everyman who's selfless and humorous.
It does end on a hopeful note, although it's rather really anti-climatic how the aliens are dealt with.
