https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/261689.The_Grand_Sophy
The one thing that always puzzles me is people's tendency to compare Georgette Heyer to Jane Austen.
The Grand Sophy is my favourite Georgette Heyer book.
What draws me back to Heyer time and again is the sheer sense of fun that she manages to impart to each and every one of her novels.
Georgette Heyer's books will live on long after the Harlequin historicals fade from our memories, simply because she is superlative at what she does: making you believe in romance.
And the older son, Charles, who has taken over control of the family and its finances to try to pull everything together, and in the process has lost his sense of humor, turned into a domestic tyrant of sorts, and managed to get himself engaged to a vindictive, overly proper woman, Eugenia Wraxton.It's a good thing Sophy is a take-charge-and-fix-it kind of person.Also luckily, Sophy is intelligent and has a great sense of humor.
I understand the racial descriptions have been removed from some editions of the book, like Agatha Christie's And Then There Were None, which seems to me a happy answer to this problem.Because really, Sophy's a great character and, that one scene excluded, this is one of Heyer's best novels.
And then Charles is taking Sophy to the back because that's how she rolls =) They got into a little arguement when Sophy was asking Charles where she could buy her own phaeton and horses and he was livid, saying women don't drive their own phaetons.
lol Sophy ended up getting some horses a man was selling that supposedly everyone wanted, but she got there first.
lol Once again I loved how many family members Sophy helps in this book and I loved the many times she put Charles and Miss Wraxton in their places about things.
I thought the book was delightful - witty, bright, deeply hilarious - and then we ran into a very stereotypical description of a "Jewish Moneylender." I do realize that Heyer was reflecting attitudes of the time, but did the moneylender have to be quite so odious?On one hand, he is a nasty character and nasty characters often don't have a good personal hygiene.
On other hand, the description hits point by point a racial stereotype used for many years to fuel persecution of the Jewish race.
You know, the first time I've read the encounter, the fact that the money lender was Jewish completely flew over my head.
It brings her too much into notice, and that, I fancy, is the root of the evil." In regards to Eugenia and Charles, Sophy "felt it a pity that so promising a young man should be cast away on one who would make it her business to encourage all the more disagreeable features of his character."Throw in some reckless riding, a showy and decidedly unfeminine – at least by the standards of the day – carriage, an elegant pistol, a variety of other colorful characters, a scheme to set everyone straight in the world of romance, and you will find that Georgette Heyer most assuredly concocted a very pleasurable and wholesome adventure!
& the smile never left my face!While Sophy stays true to the period, in a lot of ways she is a far more modern heroine - it simply doesn't occur to her she can't be independent or that she doesn't know what is best for her cousins the Rivenhalls when she is sent to stay with them.The whole family reminds me of the Von Trapps in a Sound of Music, with Charles Rivenhall having Captain Von Trapp's autocracy & his father Lord Ombersley his distance.
Sophy is your girl.Of course, that also means that she's pretty much a terror for all the stuffed shirts around her, and between getting in the way and deciding to "help" her relations find marriage, while all the while being the unwitting subject of the same dastardly plot.How will this comedy turn out???
Mind you, I do love a bit of romance fluff every now and again and this was light and churlish and sometimes even devious, but it is also pure popcorn fiction.I'm glad to have read it, but it's not generally the kind of thing I read, or at least, the setting isn't.
The Grand Sophy, my first Georgette Heyer, is a very entertaining book about a complete hoyden who turns people's lives upside down. The vivacious, unconventional and head-strong Sophy is a delightful heroine. She comes to stay at her aunt when her diplomatic father has to sail away to Brazil, of all places. She soons detects many problems that the family is struggling with, and decides to intervene. For their own good, of course. The Grand Sophy is the perfect read when you need a lull from denser, darker ones. It is fast-paced, clever and funny. Perfect brain-candy. Enjoy!
Sophy is, admittedly, forward, bold, and out-spoken enough that she could have become as irritating to me as Leonie is; but I think Heyer handled Sophy with far more skill than she did Leonie - no great surprise, perhaps, since there's a gap of about three decades between the two books - and she's instead a very joyful character, and great fun to read about.I think it's also superior to ToS in that, like Jane Austen, Heyer has realised by this time that her strength lies in writing novels in which, well, not very much happens at all.
Having recently reread another of Heyer's books, I found I just had to dig this one out as well, slightly dusty, from the depths of one of my book cases.
Heyer wrote many excellent and charming characters in her time but this young lady is one of the best.
Her enthusiasm for life and her determination that everyone around her should be happy too makes her a joy to be around.Heyer's other great skill was in writing entertaining dialogue and much of it in this book is laugh aloud funny.
So I am a Georgette Heyer fan and for me she can do no wrong.
I think "The Grand Sophy" is an excellent recommendation to fans of Jane Austen and regency romance, especially those who are quite sick of contemporary versions of the genre filled with throbbing members and heaving bosoms.
The language is sophisticated, the characters are well drawn and likable, and the romance, infused with funny flirtatious banter, is quite compelling.
Nevertheless, I enjoyed the book, would recommend it to those looking for Jane Austen substitutes (instead of those horrid zombie parodies and sequels) and will probably read Heyer in future.P.S. I saw some reviews accusing this book of being anti-Semitic.
In books of the Regency Historical Romance, a second subgenre of Regency Romance novels, characters behave according to modern standards although the time setting and the other characteristics remain the same.
As mentioned, Georgette Heyer belongs to the first subgenre.When I state that Regency novels are characterized by fast-paced dialogue and that the dialogues mimic the talk of earlier days, pay attention.
The story, through its plotline, becomes light, is silly and scarcely believable, but fun in all its innocence.This is a story about Sophy Stanton-Lacy, she is twenty years old and the eponymous heroine of the book.
It was more about Sophy's ingenuous plans in rescuing everyone's problems than an actual romance, but it was so engaging and hilarious that I didn't really mind.
But I couldn't really blame him because I felt so sorry for him that he was engaged to Miss Wraxton, who was undoubtedly the most "proper", "dutiful" and "well-bred" woman in London, and it really was no wonder that such a dead bore of a Bluestocking would turn him bitter!
My goodness, I will have to review something very dark and depressing to make up for loving this book, won't I?This is the romance novel that isn't a romance novel.
The romance seems very secondary to the plot and character development.
The plot is fantastic, the endless capers are quite funny, and the character development seems very real and natural.
It did give me pause after I finished the above review, but it is such a small part of the book, and the rest of the book is so unlike it, I decided not to change the above enthusiasms.
Okay, I confess to a weakness for Georgette Heyer books. While I refuse to read regular romance novels, Ms. Heyer's books, which I discovered as a teenager, are well written and FUNNY. The Grand Sophy is full of pompous people and Sophy--who has a sense of the ridiculous. There are some laugh out loud scenes. I must admit that I keep a copy stashed for the times that life just gets me down.
I loved this!! As a Jane Austen fan, it was so nice to read another Regency Period novel, but with a much more buck-the-system female than any of Jane's characters. Sophy is one of my favorite characters of all time. If I can't be her, I want her as a best friend. The last two chapters in particular were so much fun and comical. I woke up thinking that I can't wait to read more before remembering that I finished this last night. Highly recommend!
A very delightful Regency, anchored by a strong, clever heroine. Love how it all wrapped up.
OKAY Get ready for an onslaught of book reviews because I just got back from vacation and literally read like 20 books, maybe more.FIRST, this book was on my Kindle for a while because I guess this author is considered the mother of historical romance novels.
The main character reminded me of Katherine Hepburn in "Bringing up Baby", one of my favorite movies, and, although her antics would NEVER have been accepted in the real period, I loved the banter and her saucy attitude, it felt authentic rather than forced like some "spirited" historical romance ladies do.
I really hate giving this 2 stars, because going down the list of my GR friends who have read it, I see that almost all of them (with the exception of Carol) gave it 4 or 5 stars.
I know we all have different tastes for books, but when I veer off so decidedly from everybody else in a book that is an almost universal fan favorite among Georgette Heyer readers, I does make me question my own reading tastes.
And by passionate I'm not referring to romantic passion, but just a passion for life or a strong determined nature.
Except for a gratuitously vicious bit of anti-Semitism in the middle of this book that could just as well have been left out, it's one of Heyer's best, balanced between strong characters and a smacking good pace. There are some genuinely funny bits, and the whole is so cinematic that it surprises me this hasn't been optioned by the BBC. Though if they do, I hope they skip that disgusting middle chapter, or take the FAIL out of it.
No es una novela romántica.. pese a que el amor está presente. Me lo he pasado muy bien leyendo esta novela, a pesar de que al principio me ha costado entrar un poco. Es una novela escrita en el sXIX y eso se nota. Pero la mordacidad y la ironía... esas frases de doble sentido que se gasta Sophia me han arrancado más de una carcajada.Bueno reflejo de social, sobre todo, en relación a los matrimonios....Una lectura muy recomendable si sois amantes de Jane Austen
Still my favourite of all the Heyer's Regency Romances.
I’m no book snob, but I must admit I was sceptic when one of my good friends suggested Georgette Heyer’s novels.
There is a lot of horse talk and a great deal of drama, but this book was such a fun read.
:D 3.5 starsFavourite quotes:“A man who would contract the mumps,” declared Cecilia, “would do anything!” Lady Ombersley saw nothing unreasonable in this pronouncement, nor was she surprised that his lordship’s un-romantic behavior had given Cecilia a distaste for him.
She had herself been sadly disappointed, for she had thought him a man of sense, certainly not one to be succumbing to childish ailments at inopportune moments.Woods and bluestockings, he said, exercised a lowering effect upon his spirits.
A lovely book. The plot was a bit laboured towards the end, still in keeping with Sophy's unpredictable nature. The dialogues between the characters were first rate. 'Flirtation' at its best!
SHORT PEOPLE GET WISH FULFILLMENT ALL THE TIME!
In fact, this book made me laugh out loud several times, and I feel okay in this one instance saying that the dialogue sparkles.
The entire thing started to feel a bit too farfetched when Sophy visits Goldhanger (and what is this piece of anti-Semitism supposed to achieve, I ask you?), and I really wanted more emotional closure out of the end of the novel.
(hide spoiler)] But overall, I had such a fun time reading this, and Sophy made me laugh so much.
Loved! So fun!! I have a hundreds of books on my to read shelf and yet I came back to this one and read it again. I adore these characters who make me laugh and smile. Source: Audible.comContent: Clean (some mild language - "my god" & "good god" used as exclamations)Originally read November 2015 - Reread in March 2016 & finished a 3rd time in July 2016
He can't have Sophy's wild ways ruining his family and his relationship.
Sophy has other plans for Charles and for the entire family.
It's a little more ambiguous than some of the other novels.Sophy is like a tornado in full force, coming in and picking everyone up and tossing them back down again.
Though Lady O is nervous, has spasms and overly cautious at times, she seems to be a loving mother and is willing to be a kind, surrogate mother to Sophy when asked.
If you're new to Heyer, I wouldn't necessarily start here but if you're a fan of her other Regency novels, you'll love this one too.
That leaves it all on their eldest son Charles who is desperately trying to navigate his family out of financial ruin while attempting to perform the role of both his parents to their large brood, including his beautiful sister Cecilia who was about to be engaged with a very good match, but instead has set her sights on an incredibly handsome, but utterly vacuous poet.
Her father has brought her to the Ombersleys for her sister to help find her a husband, but Sophy very quickly decides that her main role is to fix the Ombserleys.
"I find it a marvellous circumstance, cousin, that no one has yet strangled you!"A few years back, I discovered Heyer and read a few of her regency novels.
She comes into the lives of her aunt and cousins like a whirlwind and it is hilarious to witness how she manipulates them, often without their knowledge.
Sophy's father is hilarious and his relationship and indeed confidence in her is unusual and refreshing.
Apart from this 'faux pas' (for want of a better word), Heyer excels in her dialogue and indeed the orchestration of her scenes, many displaying perfect timing for maximum effect, and offers us a very entertaining and funny read.
Ok, first off, I have, just have to mention the exorbitant amount of exclamation points in this book. Never have I read a book and ended up just exhausted by the dialogue almost always ended with exclamation points (!)And this went on the entire book! The story: can i say repetitive? Quite tiresome the relationship between Sophy and Charles. Those back and forth between them were almost always fruitless. And did I say repetitive? (Sorry, cannot help myself!)Charles's verbal attacks were somethin
Ok, first off, I have, just have to mention the exorbitant amount of exclamation points in this book.
Never have I read a book and ended up just exhausted by the dialogue almost always ended with exclamation points (!)And this went on the entire book!
The story: can i say repetitive?
(Sorry, cannot help myself!)Charles's verbal attacks were something I could totally do without.
*sigh*Charles who i suspected to be the love interest?
I think the writing played a big part in me not partial to the story or its characters.
