https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/772976.Frida_Kahlo

This is a wonderful book, about an extraordinary woman who led an extraordinary life – and she articulated this life via her paintings - every step of the way.
I loved the way that Kahlo’s work is so linked to her life and experiences.
“The strands of hair littering the floor of the first picture have clearly been gathered up again in the second and plaited into a new braid….thus the femininity which she rejected and symbolically renounced in 1940, she now takes up again one year later.” All of her work is like this – resonating with her life experiences.
La vida de Frida Kahlo ha dado para mucho, en este libro se muestran sus pinturas y y escuetamente su vida, desde su infancia hasta la vida con su marido Diego Rivera.En sus obras se aprecia una fuerza extraordinaria, unos colores vibrantes en los que detalla sin tapujos sus sufrimientos y los de otros, sin temor a la muerte pero también con mucha fuerza ante la vida.Una mujer de carácter, tanto en lo personal como en su pintura.muy buen libro para ir abriendo boca del mundo Kahlo.
It seems fitting to finish reading this on International Women’s Day. If you don’t know a lot about Frida Kahlo and want to learn more, this is a good book to start with - it showcases a lot of her work, whilst also describing major events in her life that influenced how and what she painted. Kahlo is a remarkable woman, and I hope to be able to see some of her work in the flesh one day.
"I hope the exit is joyful ... and I hope never to come back ..."
Reading Andrea Kettenmann' s Kahlo brings back good memory of visiting La Casa Azul in summer 2015.
But even so, it was a fairly long time ago when first watching it that I could barely remember much.Seeing paintings and almost original infrastructure and status of the house in my own eyes, I started to get a sense of how Frida' s life was although I did not think for a second that anyone in this world could ever come close to dare to imagine what she had exactly gone through physically and mentally.
Frida Kahlo was the truly independent, intelligent, influential, outstanding human being of our time.

This has made me want to go to a costumed party as Frida. She was so beautiful.Now back to the book! That was a very interesting read, not too complicated, not too "you should know what I'm talking about" just perfect for someone who wants to learn about a great painter in a cool and agreeable way. I just would have liked the illustrations on the page where they were mentioned because going back and forth between pages was really terrible. Other than that, I am very happy with this Taschen book, as I have always been!
Una activista mexicana que admiro mucho, me hubiera gustado una mejor explicación de lo que fue su lucha en México, faltaron algunas cosas más que abordar, pero es un libro muy bueno
i so far read only the beginning of the book and i do like it i have always wanted to read further into Fridas Kahlos life its so far talking about where and when she was born. she was born on july 6 1907 in coyoaca, a suburb in mexico city she was a painter but she didn't paint just anything she painted stuff about her life including herself.
Puikiai susisteminta informacija, kokybiškos nuotraukos ir reprodukcijos bei malonus leidimas, kurį vis vartysiu ir vartysiu :)Neapsakomos stiprybės asmenybė,kuri be galo įkvepia. Dabar beliko tik aplankyti jos namus Meksikoje, Coyoacán'e !
I fell in l;of with Frida Kahlo when reading this book.
"Frida also displayed herself as a woman who was unconventional and willful; she was obsessedby a need to be strong and independent. Her personality and very existence, the focus of her art, have been transformed into iconography."
I really loved the style of Andrea Kettenmann, who is very good art & history specialist, her research about the life of Frida is written with passion and detailed work observations.The book succeed to make the reader familiar with the great art of the Mexican painter and give impression about her amazing personal life, filled with pain and hope.
Frida remains one of my favorite painters, loved by her totally realistic view to life,her exact and deep self-look in her authoportraits, she remains original artist of her era.
It is a short biography with the most important events of her life especially those that influenced her art. Very good photos and good explanations of every artwork are given. Extraordinary life with a lot of suffering emotional and physical - the loneliness caused her to paint the subject she spend the most time with - herself; she added symbolic elements to each painting to give the story of the painting. Without understanding or reading her life the self portraits do not make any sense. I enjoyed reading it.
This small book (fewer than 100 pages) packs a punch. It contains prints of her most famous paintingss and a love letter to Rivera, photos showing her campaigning, a couple of smalls of Rivera's works which contain images of her campaigning for Communism. This little book has many of the things I want a history or biography to have: images of the important work, copies of letters, and a time line. Bonuses here: images of the house where she grew up, images of her journal. Great little book.
I liked this better than the book I read earlier this year (Frida & Diego) because it focused more on her (obviously) but I actually found that there was quite a bit of information in the first book that wasn't in the second book. However, Frida & Diego really lacked examples of her artwork, whereas here it was chalk full of it in beautiful, smooth, thick pages. I want to buy it because honestly cutting out some of that artwork and framing it would look beautiful.
This little gem of a book puts Frida Kahlo's art in perspective with her politics, her sexuality, and her health. The artist emerges as a revolutionary in many facets of her life. A wonderful read and packed with eye candy from Kahlo's paintings and drawings.
No ha estado mal, es corto y la mayor parte del libro lo ocupa imágenes de sus cuadros y algunas fotografías que le hicieron, pero está bastante bien para adentrarse en su pintura y en su vida.
Fantastic book, accurate and thorough while avoiding "textbook" material. Beautiful plates... many of which I saw when her work was at the Walker. Amazing!
Incredible woman.
What a story!!!
I had tears coming to my eyes more than once reading this, but at the same time, strangely, the book made me feel strong and stronger, as if I connected with Frida, her suffering and her battles, but also the way she not only survived, but also became that incredible artist.
Next time someone talks to you about pain, tell them about Frida.
Next time someone tells you about passion for life, tell them about Frida.
Next time someone tells you about talent, tell them about Frida.
"I hope the exit is joyful..." - Frida KhaloA comprehensive introduction to the life and works of Mexico's most well-known painter.
Like most people, I knew a bit about Khalo, and could recognise some of her works, but this book showed me things I had no idea about and allowed me to put my understanding of Frida into a cultural, political, and personal context.
A wonderful place to start if you want to learn more about Frida Khalo.
Sidenote: She had an affair with Trotsky and this knowledge has forced me to rearrange a lot of historical timelines in my head.
This little book packs a punch. In less than 100 pages, Ketternmann has providedImages of her most famous paintingsImages of Rivera's painting her in his political murals and other artwork.Images of a love letter she wrote Rivera.Images of parts of her journal.Image of her hand-drawn diagram of 2 major back surgerys.Images of her campaigning for communist/for the improvement of the lives of the Mexican citizens.I do not want to give any more away about this dramatic life and dramatic art.
Gelungenes Buch über die Künstlerin Frida Kahlo. Zahlreiche Bilder untermalen den informativen Text. Ein Punkt Abzug, weil ich mir gerne einen Bildband gewünscht hätte mit einer kompletten Aufzählung und Darstellung ihrer Kunstwerke
A good primer of her work and the basics of her life and career, but it was repetative and read like descriptions for an art installation (makes sense for the type of book). Love Frida and would like to learn more about her.
Predivna biografija koja će vas dirnuti i natjerati na suze. ♡
Her life was so fucked up. Very interesting to read.
A nice little introduction to Kahlo's life and work, with some beautiful reproductions. I'll definitely pick up a biography of her next.
Excellent images of her artwork, and a great introduction to the life of Frida Kahlo.
Very comprehensive history and beautiful artwork throughout. What a fascinating woman. Will need to read more about her lovers and relationships I think.
