https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76658.On_a_Pale_Horse
4.0 stars. Piers Anthony is a MIND-NUMBING ENIGMA to me. He is capable of writing extremely thought-provoking, imaginative stories that are both original and speak to fundamental aspects of the human condition. The mystery is that he does so infrequently, despite being one of the most prolific authors in the speculative fiction. Wait....on second thought, maybe that is the answer. Quantity of production slamming right into the proverbial nuts of quality. Well this first novel in the Incarnation
Well this first novel in the Incarnations of Immortality series is certainly one that resides in the relatively exclusive group of high quality Piers Anthony books.
The Incarnations series is founded on the premise that humans assume the roles of 5 of the 7 major supernatural offices called "Incarnations" (i.e., Death, War, Fate, Time and Nature).
So a good person's soul will float up towards heaven whereas a bad person’s will....you get the idea.
Finally, when a soul is in extremely fine balance between good and evil, Death is the final arbiter of the soul’s final destination.
And best of all, this blended good science fiction with pure fantasy elements to make a very enjoyable read.
A man accidentally kills Death, an incarnation of Immortality and - shades of Tim Allen in The Santa Clause - he must don the black mantle and ride the white horse.
It turns out to be a white car and a pretty cool gig when all is settled.
That is until the Hellhounds show up.Unfortunately, I don't think the rest of the series was anywhere nearly as good, On a Pale Horse has, nonetheless remained timeless as I have often thought about it since.
This is the first in the Incarnations of Immortality series, and probably the best of the batch.
I believe I read somewhere that Anthony originally intended only to write the five (Death, Time, Fate, War, and Earth), and I think he probably should have stopped there, because while With a Tangled Skein is probably the best book of the series in terms of pulling the other books together, they did (as Sci-Fi series so often do) start to drag quite a bit towards the later books, and ended up just plain silly by the end of the seventh book in the series, And Eternity.All that said, On a Pale Horse being the reader's first look at this world, it is an original concept for a novel.
As a 16 year old, at least, it was a very engrossing read, as was the rest of the series as a whole.
Animorphs, which blew my mind and changed my entire life from grade 4 onward, does not hold up, writing-wise, but the stories are still good and still pretty mind-blowing as the introduction for a 10-year-old to serious (for a 10-year-old) sci-fi.
Because there is no woman character ever introduced in ANY Piers Anthony book EVER WRITTEN (I haven't checked but I would bet a lot on it) whose attractiveness is not commented on in some way.
I think that Piers actually believes he is writing strong female characters, which is pretty scary.
I enjoy puns in real-life dialogue (they indicate a quick wit), but they don’t often work for me in print and this is one of the reasons I don’t read Piers Anthony (I gave up on the first Xanth book after 4 chapters, but I tried On a Pale Horse because it sounded mature and interesting).There were some things I did find funny — Death lives in a house that looks like a funeral home and answers fan mail, Satan uses his publicity budget to sponsor Hellathons, group plans, and billboard advertising, a soul’s balance of good and evil is computed like an income tax, and you should hear Satan argue with a female Irish fishmonger — but mostly I found the humor and cheesy dialogue to be juvenile.The love story is juvenile, too.
This was the book that got me into reading fiction many years ago, and inspired me to want to write.
The reading happened straight away and I've not stopped since; the writing took a little longer to get started, and I see no sign of stopping that now either.So, reading for the second time many years later, much of the narrative feels a little dated in regard to social references and attitudes, but I enjoyed the story just as much as I did as a young man.
Now I feel compelled to reread the rest of the series.Highly recommended, especially if you already like fantasy.
Maybe a better title for this book would be, "Euthanasia Rocks!"I honestly thought I would like this book a whole lot more.
There were plenty of inconsistencies and points where disbelief just could no longer be suspended, but it was also kind of cool to be in a world with magic alongside technology.And I know you're not supposed to do this in a review, and that is tell the author how to do something, but I feel like there was a huge oversight in making a hilarious character out of the "pale horse," Mortis.
He was dull, though horse-like ...
The male characters evaluate women by their age and attractiveness, although Zane/Death comes to grudgingly admire Luna’s strength, intelligence, and morality.
If I had children, I wouldn’t encourage them to read this series, but if they did, we would need to talk about the role of women in it and why it shouldn’t be used as a model for relationships.
The female characters often say some very chauvinistic things, as if Anthony believed it was acceptable to be prejudiced as long as the female characters voice those thoughts (e.g. that as women get old, they just bag & sag and lose all their attractiveness, implying that without youthful attractiveness they really aren’t worth anything anymore).
Reread this for the first time in 30 years. Enjoyed it, but not as much as books by Atwood or Gaiman
Death does ride a Pale Horse but that Horse can be so much more if that is what the job calls for, or at least that is what Anthony will have us believe.A friend of mine in high school pushed this series on me and I reluctantly started to read it.
Because yeah, it takes something special for me to really delve into science fiction.
Sure it is a kinda futuristic world but the character portrayal is what takes center stage, not the world they are in.All in all this is a wonderful start to a great series!
On a Pale Horse is the best book Piers Anthony's ever written.Sadly, that's not saying much.
Anthony has some very creative ideas, but his prose is mechanical at best and plainly clunky at worst.Even so, some of the ideas are worth the slog.
The Incarnations of Immortality series, though it fades at the end as all of Anthony's series do, is a clever and occasionally inspired look at religion, spirituality, and morality.
As it stands, however, it's merely a moderately entertaining read.The first books of Anthony's series, before he overextends himself, tend to be the best (see also, A Spell for Chameleon, and On a Pale Horse is no exception.
Piers Anthony is an author who is more conceptually innovative than literary.
His writing is like puff pastry and not very substantive, but his characters are likable and the plots engaging.
None of Anthony's books takes long to read, and you'll be able to tell by the first 100 pages of a series whether you're into his concept.Though my least favorite of his series, this group is fun enough.
The first book benefits from the novelty of Anthony's concept, and For Love of Evil is the most interesting, character-wise.
Other than that, the books are just mindless entertainment.
This is a very popular book but everyone that I personally know that has read and loved it say they read it way back in the 80's or 90's.
I wonder if they would still feel the same way if they read it for the first time today.
I've just read too many outstanding fantasy novels this year so this book had big shoes to fill.
I'm not sure why but I went into this book expecting it to be funny.
It did pick up a bit in the second half once Zane went on strike and started fighting off everything Satan was throwing his way.
Okay, I'm done.
I made it 2 hours and 47 minutes into the audiobook, and this just isn't good.
It starts with one of the most most blatant cases of the trope 'women as rewards' I've seen in popular fiction and just keeps piling them on.
I stopped just after the female football team with the invisible protective gear and mammary glands likened to those of goats.
He took several passes after the 'goat udder' comment to clarify that the lady footballers had large bosoms.
I remain unclear as to whether these remarkable organs were on their bellies or their chests, but that's okay.
I first read this book back when I was 13 and loved it.
Immediately tore through the rest of the books in the series and would regularly bring up the series in conversations about books worth reading.
A few months back I found a paperback copy of On A Pale Horse at a book sale for 50 cents and picked it up thinking it'd be fun to revisit the series.
The result is a handful of "wouldn't it be hard to take someone's soul in this circumstance‽" vignettes, each more shallow and tidy than they should be.It's rough re-reading a book you loved and realizing how problematic it's always been.
It’s my first time reading Anthony, and overall I enjoyed this story. Yes, it’s dated, & yep definitely some unnecessary female sexualization, but overall I liked the story and it was a fun read juxtaposed with my current political read. I liked the play of good verses evil and all the grey areas, the exploration of original sin, and what if bad things are done for good reasons. It was a bit too simple in some places, but overall interesting read.
By the end of the story, we learn the true extent to which Zane has been manipulated; as much as he annoys me at times, I can’t help but feeling sorry for him too.Related to the fate/self-determination issue, particularly when it comes to death, is the nature of morality.
Because it seems that, in the book, a person’s belief influences the fate of one’s immortal soul: atheists, at least, stop existing after death.These are not so much flaws in the book and its world-building as they are questions raised by how Anthony portrays society in On a Pale Horse.
One summer while in Jr High, my brother handed me a book.
I loved the book, and unlike Anthony's Xanth series, Incarnations is still very readable for me today.
I've heard the argument that many feel that Anthony has far too many sexual scenes in the Incarnations books.
I guess I never really latched onto those scenes as being particularly offensive.
There are worse books than these out there for that.The books themselves follow around each of the Incarnations during a particularly tough time (don't want to spoil).
Still one of my favorite series of all time.
What I liked: The idea of the story - Death as a real man, unwittingly thrust into the role, and having to figure it out as he went.
There were actually quite a few clever ideas in the story line of On a Pale Horse.What I didn't like: The sexism, the writing of the female characters.
I have this issue whenever I read older sci-fi books as that genre was dominated by male authors for so long.
So, basically, a great story idea that needed help with the dialog, especially with the female characters.
We're compelled to wade through half a novel of false doctrine before hitting actual storyline.
Had I read only the second half of the novel, I think I might have enjoyed it.
This novel embodies his great love for his own literary skill.
Another condescending measure devised to instill in the reader an awe of his literary greatness is an over abundance of classic poetry quoted throughout the novel.
My favorite part is in the author's notes, where Piers Anthony confesses to being a sell-out; he only writes what's been bought and paid for.
This is the only Piers Anthony book I really liked.
For once there's enough actual plot to distract the author from his usual preoccupations of breasts and bad puns.
Erm, gets shot to death by the protagonist.
It's an ACCIDENT, okay!Now the protagonist has to take his place, and figure out all the gadgets Death uses to find the souls he collects.
What more could you want?This is the first book in the Incarnation of Immortality series, and the best.
If you do decide to read them all, space them out, because Anthony revisits the same events from different points of view, and it gets pretty repetitious.
I decided to reread this series when I learned there was an eighth book.
I could probably go straight to the eighth book no problem, but I remembered liking this series and I still do.
Afterward, he has to learn the ins and outs of his job -- making sure the souls that are roughly in balance end up going to the right place (haven or hell).
And Satan, always trying to be friendly, does his best to trip him up.The biggest problem with Anthony's book is the way he writes women.
This was the beginning of my Piers Anthony kick a couple years ago.
This series was very interesting.
It is called the Incarnations of Immortality, with this first book being the best of the series.
The others were interesting.
The premise is that regular people take on the mantle of Death, The Fates, Mother Nature, Mars, Father Time, etc.
There are a total of seven books, so you can guess who the 6th and 7th are.
I never could get ahold of the 6th book and I'm not one to skip on to the last without reading all the previous titles.
I very much enjoyed this fantasy book that focused on the office of Death and it's coorelation with the other Incarnations. It's cause and effect logic was always sound and infuriatingly obvious after reading the explanation of the logic. The author did a great job keeping the reader's emotions on par with the protagonist (Zane), even feeling the frustration and eventual enlightenment that he experienced.One more note: Mortis is awesome!
In my opinion this is the best of the incarnations series. Interesting where the guy discovers he's "become" the new incarnation of Death (and of course how he became "Death"). I think this was a pretty good book and it's one of only a few Anthony books I really like. I read a few others of the Incarnation Series, and incidental other Anthony books. Not in general a fan of his.
I first read this series in high school.
The whole idea of this book is that Death, Time, The Fates, Nature, God, Satan and War are each a job held by a former mortal.
Maybe not too many others have felt this way, but I think the concept is intriguing.I love the portrayal of God and Satan, as well.
It's just such an interesting idea to me.Anyway, maybe a lot of my love comes from my remembering of how the series made me feel the first time I read it.
From memory-read this as a young man and liked it enough to read the entire series. A mortal takes over as the (nearly) immortal death, very entertaining.
The cosmology is also very simplistic.Four years later than this book, Terry Pratchett published his humorous fantasy book about Death (Mort), which shares a LOT of similarities with this book - and although it might have come later, it's just much much funnier and better-done.
This is the first of Piers Anthony's Incarnations of Immortality series and is possibly the best one.
As I recall the series went downhill a bit after 3-4 books (it did pick up with For Love of Evil though, then nose dived after that).Piers Anthony is often criticized for poor writing style, but in reality his prose is just utilitarian without being elegant or poetic.
He is no Le Guin but then his books are generally more fun (without ever being important).
At his best Anthony's books are wonderful escapism and he really is on top form with this book.
I realize that this book is a product of its time but boy howdy, the sexism in this book is really bad.
I have read a lot of books from this time period, Stranger in a Strange Land is one I still enjoy despite it's sexism, this book just can't escape it.I picked up this book after hearing the TAL story about Piers Anthony.
I realized I had not read any Anthony books and this one had the highest reviews.
I don't anticipate picking up any more Piers Anthony.
