https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/331705.She
This could be due to my surface-level reading of the book, but it could also have to do with the fact that Johnson tries to summarize feminine psychology in a mere 80 pages- missing opportunity after opportunity to present concrete modern examples of his interpretation of this Greek myth.
Alas, true to my compulsive form, I must now read "He" and "We." I'd like to see how they all tie together and to see if Johnson interprets the psychology of his own sex/gender better than that of females.
A short read assembled by a Jungian psychologist type fellow.
Overall pretty flaky and shallow.
The book reads pretty much like a horoscope and as such is not terribly interesting or full of impact (or win, if you're a hip nerdcore kid).Apparently, this same author has written a similar tome for males based upon Ares.
Most likely won't be visiting that.Really need to stop picking books at complete random (and movies for that matter), or not.
Either a gem is uncovered, or I die havin' read only crummy books.
An interesting essay, but still slightly subjugative. I wonder if it's because of the author's personal views, or a sign of the time in which the book was written. Was 1989 really that long ago? There is a companion book called "He" (of course).
"Unless we do conscious work on it, the shadow is almost always projected. That is, it is neatly laid on someone or something else so we do not have to take responsibility for it".  I took notice of him passing away last 24th September. My homage, reading him and listening to him.This is a great book as proof that, in some cases, a myth (namely Psyche and Eros) may provide a model for understanding woman’s failed or successful psychological development. But, despite Robert Johnson mentioning the
My homage, reading him and listening to him.This is a great book as proof that, in some cases, a myth (namely Psyche and Eros) may provide a model for understanding woman’s failed or successful psychological development.
To me, in our days the Feminist movement, in some cases, reached the incomprehensible level, maybe, demanding new Myths to explain and understand such a feminist fury (and hate projection?), ultimately, and negatively, impacting on women’s psychological development.
Hirsi Ali was commenting on a “Women’s March” back in 2017; and she’s been critical about Islam*.She's quite an antithesis to Linda Sarsour."Crawl back under your rock"Swedish Foreign Minister Margot WallstromOr, quite recently, a Swede feminist calling indirectly a Canadian clinical psychologist a caveman…(or a bug?)...or something else.*** https://womenintheworld.com/2017/02/0...**https://www.rt.com/news/443477-peters...
3 بخش اول کتاب به تحلیل سه شخصیت محوری اسطوره آفرودیت، سایکی و اروس اختصاص دارد.
در فصول بعدی دکتر جانسون به روانشناسی مرحله به مرحله ی این اسطوره می پردازد و در فصل 8 با بررسی و تحلیل خوان های پیش روی سایکی کتاب به اوج خود می رسد و نهایتا در فصل 9 تحلیل های مطرح شده به روانشناسی زن مدرن پیوند می خورد.تقریبا همیشه تمایل به احساس خودکشی نشانه ی رسیدن به لبه ی یک آگاهی جدید است، یک سطح آگاهی تمام شده است و سطح دیگر آغاز به رشد می کند.
This slim volume focuses on the story of Cupid (eros) and Psyche.
Eros is the need for love and Psyche is the spirit of love.
Johnson explores the maturing process of women through the story of Eros and Psyche.
The story enchants on its own -- and we have heard much of this story through the Grimm Bros.
Sounds crazy, but when we realise this is the story of all women as they mature into womanhood, then the story is not crazy.
Well, I still don't understand Feminine Psychology, but I enjoyed reading the book. Another notch in the belt of Jungian thought. One of these days I expect to have an awakening when it will all suddenly make sense to me. Till then I continue to plug away at reading – building a foundation I hope. This one looks at the myth of Eros and Psyche as a metaphor for the spiritual journey every woman faces.
A book about feminine psychology written by a man and using a man-centric pscyhological interpretation.An interesting essay, but still slightly subjugative.
Johnson relates feminine psychology to the Greek myth of Eros (Cupid) and Psyche to show the similarities between modern and ancient times, as well as the surprising authenticity and relevance of this myth.
The myth deals with Psyche, a young, lonely daughter of a royal family that ends up falling in love with Cupid, the son of the very jealous Aphrodite.
I found it quite interesting when Johnson admitted that men needed the femininity of a woman in order to fully understand and find meaning in situations and sometimes even in themselves.
A narrow and occasionally offensive reduction of women that purports to be an analysis of the female psyche. What it is, is a reasonably interesting interpretation of the myth of Psyche and Eros. I would be giving it more stars if the author had been honest about what this short book actually is. Instead he makes sweeping conclusions about femininity (but only in relation to masculinity, because the female psyche is valued only by reference to what it can do for men, apparently), based on his subjective views on one myth.
Don't be fooled by the book's small size. She: Understanding Feminine Psychology packs a powerful and frighteningly applicable punch. Delving deep into Greek mythology (particularly the tale of Psyche), Robert A. Johnson reveals how age-old stories contain universal truths. The work draws parallels to modern-day situations, and in effect, sheds light on the psychological and emotional issues that are prevalent in contemporary society. The information is useful to both men and women alike, since there are "feminine" elements in each of us.
I recently discovered this author but I wasn't as impressed with this as I was some of his other titles. It read more like a good college psychology paper. Maybe feminine psychology isn't his strongest point. I wouldn't call it a waste of time, however.
This book has been sitting on my shelf for years.
I picked it up today because it is December 28th and I needed one more book to reach my 40 book goal.
This was by far the skinniest book on the shelf, alas!
I grabbed that shit and sat down to speed-read (this 40 book challenge was really important to me, ok?!) Well, I'm not a believer in fate, but this book was what I needed to read at this exact moment in my life.
Johnson!The mythical, dreamy, Jungian stuff was totally new to me and I really enjoyed it.
In this book, She: Understanding Feminine Psychology, Robert A.
Johnson examines the myth of Eros and Psyche as a metaphor for the work a woman must do to become conscious and alive.
I found the the story illuminating and surprising -- full of magical events (ants sorting seeds, reeds giving advice on how to gather the golden fleece, an eagle who is sent to gather water from the river Styx)-- and down to earth explanations of the difficult passage that Psyche must make in order to become conscious.
I am drawn to myths as sources of spiritual solace, and this is no exception.
women should not define themselves and their femininity around men.
Also, I would of been more comfortable and the research done was by women....
However, there are some good ideas about men and women needing femininity and masculinity both.
There is a lot of good information surrounding evolutionary theory: how did the genders get this way?
However, the author defines personality and purpose strictly in gender.
As my boyfriend has many feminine qualities, and I have many masculine qualities, we cannot fit into these strict gender roles.All in all, some interesting ideas about femininity and masculinity—-but lots of cringes.
The book is better than then name, well written by someone who helped me see the value of myth in society... he also connects how Western society's passion for falling in love, is the displacement of how we used to have a Love for God... but religion is unpopular and romance movies are popular. He explores our psychology of passion and love in terms of Psyche and Aros (Cupid)... and it's a bit sexist of course... written some years ago, but the philosophy/psychology/myth of this short book, so well written and insightful, was worth it for me.
Can not think of a better review of this book than this quotation:Pronunciation -- think of Psyche!Is a paling stout and spikey?Won't it make you lose your wits,Writing groats and saying grits?It's a dark abyss or tunnel:Strewn with stones, stowed, solace, gunwale,Islington and Isle of Wight,Housewife, verdict and indict.Kind of reflects the plot.
Johnson uses the myth of Cupid and Psyche to explore feminine psychology - perhaps the first time that anyone had put it into so many words for me that each woman has a masculine side to her soul and each man has a feminine part to his soul.This deepened my connection to Cupid and Psyche which just kept popping up everywhere for me around this time in my life.
He, She, and We are three parts of a whole that take you on a journey which navigates the recognition and integration of the male and female psyche in each of us. I was turned on to these by Dr. Gentz who is a practicing psychologist in Tulsa Oklahoma. My partner and I read them at the same time. We found that parts of these books were better absorbed on the second reading.
3,5 estrelasÉ sem dúvida muito curioso este tipo de livros que acabo de descobrir, através de um mito/ lenda sobre o qual nos é demonstrado aquele que é o ser psíquico da mulher.No entanto consegui aperciar de uma maneira mais vantajosa o 1o volume, He.
more like 3.5 stars. It was interesting the interpretation of the Psyche, Eros, Aphrodite myth. I also enjoyed some insights re: the female influence over the male influence.
a must-read for any woman overwhelmed by falling in love
Yet another book from my "Psych of Identity" class. About the feminine archetype in psychology.
Just couldn't get into this one. Disappointing after what a revelation We was.
Somebody up there is over looking what I am reading. Oh man! It was one of the most Aha reading moment of my year.
While this book was good in that it was validating to my inner work experiences and spiritual journey, it wasn't as poignant or clarifying for me as his other book on the divine masculine called "He".
There were points in the allegory, the myth of Psyche and Aphrodite, where I couldn't quite connect it to my own experience.
The author explains that they do not function as a historical recounting of external events, but represent the inner experiences of human-kind, as told in story fashion.
This recognition of myth as being rich in psychological, emotional and spiritual insight is what allows them to persist and remain useful for eons.
I have read the prequel to this book, "He: Understanding Masculine Psychology" and greatly enjoyed it.
It's a work of Jungian psychology (my favourite kind!) so it looks at a myth (In this one, the myth of Psyche and Eros) and demonstrates how that myth has profound insight on our internal lives.
It's important to note that in Jungian psychology every man has a little bit of woman in him and vice-versa, so you can enjoy this book and it's prequel regardless of your gender.
"He: Understanding Masculine Psychology" included a full version of the myth it was basing itself on, and mentioned which version of the myth it was using, but this one doesn't.
"Myths are rich sources of psychological insight.
Following this dictum creates a life which is never fulfilling .
Even while you are engaged in one rich experience, you are looking for another.
63"The ego that is attempting to raise some of the vast unconsciousness into human conscious life must learn to contain only one goblet of water at a time lest it be overwhelmed and the container shattered.
This warns against any great plunge into the depths to bring the whole of life into focus; better one crystal goblet of water than a flood which may drown us.
My favorite lines from this book: "If you wish to give your children the best possible heritage, give them a clean unconscious, not your own unlived life, which is hidden in your unconscious until you are ready to face it directly." I also loved that he used the myth of Eros and Psyche to explain his ideas about feminine psychology.
Overall a worthwhile read if you are interested in what ideas underlie some of the gender distinctions that exist in modern society.
"Todos los hombres son iguales", una frase que poco ayuda a comprender la complejidad del hombre interior de las mujeres.Robert A.
Johnson aborda el tema del Animus, la energía masculina dentro de cada mujer, a partir del mito de Psique y Eros.
La jornada de la mujer en su paso desde la doncella hasta la diosa consciente de su fuerza interior.Destacan en especial las tareas que asigna Atenea a Psique:1.
