https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1586560.Aller_Retour_New_York
Miller is my favourite author, but while I was reading Aller Retour New York I was getting a bit bored. There were some very good passages, but I was also feeling quite disconnected. However, the last thirty pages (Via Dieppe-New Haven) were amazing and totally worth the wait. Although it isn't a masterpiece, I really recommend this book.
A letter to Alfred Perles - this is Aller Retour New York.
But here, in a private letter, the reader is offered an unpolished glimpse into a private life.
His desire to separate himself from the crowd is clear, as much as is his admiration for the lunatic - actually, this a reoccurring theme in Miller's writing.
Thus, it does not come as a surprise that the only person of whom he has something nice to say is a lunatic, a Dutch lunatic.Most importantly, for the avid Miller reader, this letter is full of genuine emotions.
Miller as an author is growing on me. This novel was amusing especially the description of the Empire State Building. The description of his run in with UK custom officers and deportation from England and the opposite experience with the French custom officer I can relate too! During this period of his life and writing he had almost a visceral hatred of America and a passionate love for France and Paris. The witty humor and semi autobiographical narrative is an enjoyable read. The voyage in third class on a Holland America ship was also amusing and the Dutch breakfast.
Miller laughs at everyone, Americans, Dutch, English and ends with a reflection about his travels. I like Miller very much. is not like his best works, but enjoy it.
A short, hilarious caricature of America . . . or is it a accurate portrait?
Love Henry Miller but do not love how most of the women in this book are referred to simply as, "the c**t" or "that c**t"
Great read, short but very humorous
Did not actually finish it. Sexist. ++++So racist. ++++Chinese, Jews, African Americans. Indiscriminate. 1930s. Presumably a product of its time. Seems we have progressed somewhat.
El libro es tan geográfico que es muy interesante ubicar, aunque sea mentalmente, los lugares y recorridos que relata.Tiene un formato estilo Divina Comedia.
Empieza por lo más horrible (NY), luego un purgatorio intermedio (el viaje en barco) y, finalmente, el paraísmo (París).
Sólo que se invierten los términos y lo más pulcro y ordenado termina siendo lo que más horror le genera al Miller.Más allá de esa comparación con Dante, quizás exagerada, el libro, aunque pequeño, se vuelve aburrido por momentos.
La compré en algún lugar cuando empezó el trueque luego de la crisis de 2001
Last read of 2017 done in NYC. Henry Miller's discussion of a trip back to New York from his beloved Paris, written as a letter to his friend Alfred Perlès. In it he describes with acerbic wit what he finds of the once great city, his distaste for what America has become including many uncomfortable anti-semitic remarks on the politic shift of the country. As ever with Miller the force of his writing is undeniable. It also includes a hilarious easy on a disastrous attempt at a trip to England.
Actually didn't think the main letter was as good as the postscript. The style would have been fascinating, shocking and new at the time but I do feel it comes across as a bit of a pose. Oh, young author, how disaffected, how world-weary! But the final section, the afterthought, that's great.
Relato divertido y lleno de humor negro por Henry Miller hacia USA, sin embargo no deja de ser bastante irrelevante. Algo ligero para leer un par de días y ya.
my favorite book.
que pena con los que les guste pero que mamera de libro
