https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10607.Black_House
(Horror, Mystery, Fantasy, Hardcore Gothic Gypsy Steampunk.) A six-star book, is a book that I believe is worth your time and energy even if it's *not* the sort of thing you're into.
(Generally speaking, this is the sort of book I'll give a promotional blurb for.) Unfortunately, there isn't a six star option here on goodreads.
Generally speaking, a four star book is one that irritates me or disappoints me in one or two moderate ways.
If they're trying something really difficult or if it's their first book, I'll often give an extra star.
There is a sick serial killer on the loose, murdering and eating children, and the local chief of police begs Jack to help his force catch him.I love Stephen King.
The Talisman is a great, great book, but Black House is just more to my slightly darker, slightly more murderous, cannibalistic tastes… sorrynotsorry *evil laugh*There's so much to love about Black House.
Other reviews I had looked at had pointed out the narrative style as something they did not like about Black House - well, I LOVED the narrative style.
And finally in Black House my suspicions are answered as connections to the Dark Tower are made.
This is just further proof that Stephen King is a master author. Lots of action in this 2001 - 500+ page thriller and Frank Muller is incomparable as narrator. 9 of 10 stars
It is a truism and a genre obligation that retired cops in novels, even novels with slippage, must come out of retirement for their last case, and Jack does, although, as we know from the off, this will not be a simple police procedural or even a whodunnit (the identity of the Fisherman is given to us early in the text -- the “hook of his nose” followed by the “wormy lips” are a dead giveaway, if we’ve missed the hints about his awful deeds and secret pleasures); and it will have its roots in a previous novel.Those who remember The Talisman, Straub and King’s first collaboration, have already met Jack Sawyer as a 12 year old boy who travelled a long way, across the US and across a distorted, magical version of America called the Territories, to find the Talisman that would save his dying mother’s life.
Black House looks back at the twelve year old Jack Sawyer and his quest across America, while creating a whole new chapter in the process.
(Don’t worry Jack, I forgot too!) But his memory will return, and with it will come the recollection of that other world called The Territories.
I bring this up because the story of Black House fits so well with The Dark Tower series.
The Talisman may be in some ways, but it seems to me that half the purpose of Black House is to tell a story of The Dark Tower that needed telling.
Tremenda secuela de El Talismán. No esperaba demasiado de este libro y aun así logró sorprenderme, ¡y de qué manera! Desde ya puedo decir que es uno de mis libros favoritos de mi autor favorito. Maduro, con personajes fuertes y entrañables, y una escritura mataficcional que logró envolverme en la historia como pocas veces me ha pasado. Está de más decir que lo recomiendo sin lugar a dudas. De lo mejor que he leído.
It's a Dark Tower book.
He's forgotten - or blocked - all memories of his previous quest to save his mother, and has tried to live as normal and mundane a life as possible, despite the fact that he had touched the Talisman, and it conferred a lasting good luck on him that made everything he wanted to do that much easier.
I loved most of the characters in this book, even the ones I detested.
But for some reason, my disgust and rage really homed in on Green, and I felt like he was the most shitty person in this whole book.
this is a great book, if a little tiny bit draggy at times.
Black House portrays a different Jack Sawyer, now a semi-retired Los Angeles detective.
(In general, it's always a pleasure to find elements of duality in fiction, but in this case, I think King and Straub pulled it off exceptionally well.) Reminiscent of some nefarious-yet equally skilled- ventriloquist, the sequence baffles the mind in every sense of the word.
King and Straub probably weren't very interested in its mystery; contrarily, this story is very horror-orientated.
King and Straub said it best: "Amnesia is merciful." Indeed.
By taking their story in this direction, King and Straub present a few very suspenseful closing pages.
Jack's story isn't complete.
Za početak, citat: https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/1299...(view spoiler)[ Da li je iznenađujuće to što je Džek Sojer revolveraš u našem svetu? Ni najmanje. Da li iznenađuje to što mu moć njegovog isijavanja dopušta da se prebacuje kroz svetove čak i kao odrastao čovek? Opet, ni najmanje. Da li me raduje dodirivanje sa Mračnom kulom? Apsolutno. (hide spoiler)]Ono što bih odmah volela da izdvojim je dinamika same radnje koja je toliko dobra da se ni u jednom trenutku ne oseti zamor i tenzija razv
(hide spoiler)]Ono što bih odmah volela da izdvojim je dinamika same radnje koja je toliko dobra da se ni u jednom trenutku ne oseti zamor i tenzija razvlačenja priče, što je bila moja glavna zamerka Talismanu.
Da, prvi utisak o priči jeste da je ovo početak samo jednog krimića gde se rešava nekoliko slučajeva ubistava i jedna otmica, no, to je varka koja biva momentalno rabijena uplivom neverovatnih motiva koji se ne dešavaju u svakodnevnom životu.
Radnja je toliko bogata da potiskuje i samu završnicu koja je sa jedne strane možda mogla da bude spektakularnija, ali je u najmanju ruku zadovoljavajuća.
Considering I totally enjoyed the Talisman, I expected this book to be just as mind capturing as its predecessor.
So it turned out to be 'just ok' for me.The first half was drawn out and very wordy.
It seemed to take half of the book before the story even got remotely interesting.
It would get good and then would settle back into the wordiness that I found throughout most of the story.
Once it did finally reach its peak I was so exhausted, I just wanted the story to end.
However, I did enjoy several of the characters in the story.
Black House is the sequel to The Talisman.
I spent about six months listening to the Dark Tower books, and I took some time to fill in a few gaps in the story (I read Insomnia, Rose Madder and Everything's Eventual).
So, Uncle Steve's voice is really strong in my head.The Black House is almost all Straub.
I can pick out the King parts, but those are brief nuggets of good in a soup of bleh.
I hate the way that the book reads like a screenplay.
I had tried to read the paper book, but stopped at 30 pages.
It's funny, because I picked it up immediately after reading The Talisman, and at first I was put off by the shift in tone and feel of this one.
I wanted more Talisman style fantasy adventure, with the lovable young Jack Sawyer.
What I got was a cold, detached, present-tense narrative that watched everything from above and showed a landscape that was totally out of place with the book I had just finished.
But I couldn't, as I had to keep reading until there was no more.I've heard that King and Straub are planning a third collaboration.
A worthy follow-up to the Talisman: you get to see another child protagonist of King (Jack Sawyer, like Danny Torrance in Doctor Sleep) fighting a fresh set of demons as a grown-up.
Questo libro è la prova di uno splendido connubio tra due autori superlativi.
Il mistero alla base di questo libro si svolge tra l’onirico e il reale lasciando il lettore indeciso quale delle due realtà sia più assurda.
Gli investigatori dovranno rapportarsi a personaggi misteriosi, bizzarri e che, all’apparenza, sembrano di per se vittime del proprio destino.Consiglio questo libro per chi è amante del genere, ma non ai neofiti del thriller.L’edizione in mio possesso è versione economica, ma forse anche troppa… la copertina dopo alcune sedute di lettura si è staccata.
This was one of the first King books I read as a teen and I read it not knowing it was the sequel to The Talisman. Now that I’ve read The Talisman and reread Black House, it’s like all the puzzle pieces finally fit together. I loved Black House but reading it again with all the missing pieces filled in made me love it all that much more. There’s something about this story that just gets under my skin and really creeps me the fuck out!
He has been having strange dreams, no Speedy or flipping over for many years now he is trying to deal with the present.Jack is eventually forced out of retirement as a Coppiceman on trail of the Fisherman, flipping over again but to where?
Plot is good, characters great this sequel is a dark tale.
Jack meets, the mother of the murdered boy, Judy.
Great stuff highly recommend to read after The Talisman and before The Dark Tower series will he catch The Fisherman?
Save the boy and survive in The Territories?
I actually enjoyed this a little more than The Talisman. However, I would say that if you did not like The Talisman, you may not enjoy this one either. It does have a darker, more horror-like feel to it. Overall, I enjoyed it. Liked getting back to see Jack Sawyer. I'm Looking forward to the third book, if it is ever written, although I probably would want to read the Dark Tower series before I read it. Overall, I would say 3.5/5 stars rounded up.
Stephen King and Peter Straub apparently decided that, since their last collaboration was so great, they would try to follow it with an astounding book that broke every single writing rule in existence. I believe the effort is a prime example of why those rules were made in the first place. Amen.
If that series has ever interested you I would suggest reading The Talisman and Black House as they will certainly be the tipping point to get you into that series.The world that King and Straub create in this book is a place that I think as kids we all envision exists, it's a fantasy world, but they make it real.
Every time I read one and I see that little reference it sucks me in and I want to know more about this place which the Talisman and Black House name the Territories.As usual with King, this book had its moments that literally sent chills down my spine.
I will just say, for the negative parts, I did not like the narrative style, I didn't connect with Jack as much as in the Talisman, the first 350 pages were such a drag for me that even the great final 200ish pages couldn't pull it up to a 4 star rating.
We were introduced to some great new characters such as the Thunder Five, I especially liked Doc and Beezer, and Henry Leydon.
Which makes me wonder if I'd have enjoyed it more if it were written solely by King...ah well!
Dude, over twelve-hundred other people have posted their thoughts about this book here, people like Gaiman and Rothfuss, and I'm sure I can't think of anything that hasn't already been stated multiple times, and far more eloquently.... so: I liked it, but I liked the first one better. The end.
I don't even know what to say about this book, except for negative things.
Not only did I not finish this book, but I am left completely disappointed in it.
Boy, was I disappointed.
After reading over 250 pages, I put the book down in the hopes a break from it would help me to get back on track and give me some momentum to finish it.
If there is a third installment, I really hope it is of the same quality as The Talisman instead of this mess.
I guess I am just disappointed this came from King.
from the start I wanted to burn this book but My God it was worth my patience my God! Long live Stephen King
Страхотна! Много по-добра от предшественика си - "Талисманът". Действието, за разлика от предишната се развива основно в нашия свят, серийни убийци, страхотии, както и самият Черен Дом - зловещо, могъщо имение. Кратък епизод в Прокълнатите земи - буферна зона между Териториите и нашия свят: кратък, ала много мощен. Искам да го видя филмирано това.
I can’t believe I’ve waited this long before reading. I really enjoyed catching up with Jack Sawyer.
[I wrote this review in late 2001 for amazon.com shortly after reading Black House for the first time.]Hello, My Name Is TreeRider and I’m a Stephen King-aholic.If you’re a casual Stephen King (or Peter Straub) reader, or just a fan, this book may disappoint you.
Jack spends very little time in the Territories in Black House, and most of that comes near the end of the book.
And if you’re a hardcore horror nut, neither Talisman nor House is up your alley anyway.Another caveat: King experiments here with a different style of writing that may be off-putting to many readers.
Man, what were these two thinking?There were things I liked about this novel.
I liked getting to revisit "Travelin' Jack" to see what he was up to, but I feel that I would have understood Black House better if I had been more familiar with the Dark Tower series.
My only forays into the Dark Tower universe are The Gunslinger and a short story that was a tie-in to the series (I forget the name of it) so a lot of the references were lost on me.
I just think it could have been told in a better way.
I don't think this book would be have as effective if you haven't read Talisman.That said, I actually didn't like Talisman as much as Black House.
But it did help me appreciate the main character, Jack Sawyer, that I really cared about him again when his story picks up again in Black House.One thing I'd appreciated about the book was that alot of horror cliches are generally avoided in this.
Generally, this was avoided and most of the characters were likeable and therefore the book was more enjoyable as a result.
Als erstes möchte ich bemerken, dass man dieses Buch erst nach Der Talisman lesen sollte.
Wie es bei Stephen King üblich ist, war das Buch bis etwa zur Hälfte recht zäh zu lesen.
Aber man sollte unbedingt am Ball bleiben.
In der zweiten Hälfte entwickelt es sich zu einem Buch, das man nicht mehr aus der Hand legen mag.
Die Geschichte ist so ganz anders und fügt sich erst am Ende mit Der Talisman zusammen.
Auch die Parallelen zum Dunklen Turm sind phantastisch und nicht übertrieben sondern nachvollziehbar gewählt.
Dieses Buch ist ein gelungenes Werk im Stil Stephen Kings.
Holy fuck that was good...
