https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8588776-jules-verne-seven-novels
A lovely Barnes and Noble edition.The Seven Novels are:Five Weeks in a Balloon,Around the World in Eighty Days,A Journey to the Center of the Earth,From the Earth to the Moon,Round the Moon,Twenty-Thousand Leagues Under the Sea andThe Mysterious Island. Gilt edged, leather hardback. A keeper. Great tales too!
Gilt edged classics like this will fill my book shelves until the day I die. Jules Verne's stories are incredibly well written, although I agree that some of the values and ideas of how people interact and think about one another are quite difficult to deal with in modern day society. That said, the man was a visionary about science fiction concepts and ideas, which remain fresh even today.
Nevertheless, bringing together these novels in one volume affords the reader an interesting way of exploring Verne's works.The seven novels are, to wit: Five Weeks in a Balloon, A Journey to the Center of the Earth, From the Earth to the Moon, Round the Moon, Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea, Around the World in Eighty Days, and The Mysterious Island.
This is especially true of the final and longest entry, The Mysterious Island, which in some respects seems to exist for the sole purpose of being an epilogue to Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea, except that Verne doesn't connect to the earlier work until just a few chapters from the end.
"The Library of Essential Writers" series of books are affordable and beautiful editions, not to mention sturdy [they are all in hardcover] and number about 31 works in all.They are getting harder to come by but many of the titles are still available at B&N at a bargain.
This edition features seven novels by Jules Verne which are complete and unabridged, i.e.
This set is worth getting if one is able to find it at its original retail price [and not at the inflated price listed by third party sellers].
Classic collection of Jules Verne's best novels, from "Around the World in 80 Days" to "20,000 Leagues Under the Sea" that will be perfect for any personal library.
Each novel also has nice bit of variation, ranging from drama to humor (another fun bit about "From the Earth to the Moon" is the satire about munitions makers worried that wars are ending, along with their need).
Overall, Jules Verne represents a standard in science fiction fiction and these novels are a must for any collection.
Journey to the Center of the Earth5 StarsSummary: Professor Lindenbrock and his nephew, Axel, set off on an adventure to the center of the Earth.
The balloon ultimately fails before they reach the end of the journey, but are rescues by friendly travelers.
20,000 Leagues Under the Sea4 starsSummary: Professor Arronax sets out to study the mysterious beast that has been attacking ships aronde the world in record time.
They Mysterious Island5 starsSummary: This book tells the adventures of 4 Americans on an uncharted island in the south Pacific.
Nemo tells his life story and dies.
Of the seven novels within, I've read only "Mysterious Island." It is pretty good. I also like how it looks in my library. I can also see where the impetus came for the Netflix series "Lost" came from... this book. This would be a good volume for your whole family or descendants.
Although I had this story in a lovely edition of a Jules Verne compilation, I read this particular book as a Project Gutenberg e-book.The story began in a weird way for me, in chapter 3: (view spoiler)[Aronnax says “I felt that my true vocation, the sole end of my life, was to chase this disturbing monster and purge it from the world.” Why would an academic feel this destructive desire?
A great collection of classic science fiction by Jules Verne including Five Weeks in a Balloon, Around the World in Eighty Days, A Journey to the Center of the Earth, From the Earth to the Moon, Round the Moon, Twenty-Thousand Leagues Under the Sea andThe Mysterious Island.
The titles sum up what the story is about very clearly, for example Journey to the Center of the Earth is about a group of explorers who enter a volcano and begin a journey to discover the center of the Earth.Full five stars, a book I continue to read over and over especially on a rainy or hot summer day.
Jules Verne is considered the grandfather of science fiction and his stories do not disappoint.
I read Journey to the Center of the Earth when I was a child but the opportunity never presented itself for me to read his other works.
When you read his stories, it's difficult to fathom that his works are over a 100 years old.
Journey to the Center of Earth and Around the World in Eighty Days keep you wanting to read more.
And of course with 20,000 Leagues of the Sea, who doesn't want to travel with Captain Nemo on his Nautilus?
This compilation contains 7 novels. Overall, I enjoyed reading this. There was only one book that I gave less than 3 stars to, and it wasn't because it was bad, it was just oh so boring. The other six novels ranged from interesting to exciting. The physical book itself is beautiful and it was fun to look at the illustration on the cover and figure out which of the seven novels the pictures represented.
I picked my copy up in a thrift store for only a couple of pounds. The beautiful cover is what drew me to it but upon opening it, you're greeted by a most beautiful map as well as the gold lined pages.I had read a couple of Jules Verne as a child and when I picked the stories up again as an adult I was transported back. The magic of Vernes writing is amazing for any age. I am proud to be a Vernian and this book is the perfect book for any bookshelf and/or any Vernian.
Jules Verne leaped to become my favorite author. He had an incredible scientific mind and showcases it in all of his books. My favorite of his is either from the "Earth to the Moon" or "Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea" Because he uses scientific terms and calculations in his book it make you feel like its a nonfiction book full of exciting adventures.
Haven't previously read any Jules Verne. To date (Sep 2012) I've finished Five Weeks in a Balloon, Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea, and The Mysterious Island (my favorite so far). Enjoying them more than I expected.
Five Weeks in a Balloon, Around the World in Eighty Days, A Journey to the Center of the Earth, From the Earth to the Moon, Round the Moon, Twenty-Thousand Leagues Under the Sea and The Mysterious Island
Five Weeks In A Balloon: 3.5*A Journey to the Center of the Earth: 4*From the Earth to the Moon: 3.5*Round the Moon: 4*Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea: 4*Around the World in 80 Days: 4.5*The Mysterious Island: 4*
Great book!i recommend to any Sci-Fi reader looking for something old fashioned to read.Although these were great stories within the book, I found "From the earth to the moon" and "Round the moon" rather boring.
I'm currently reading 'Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea.'
I enjoyed rereading the novels in this collection.
Journey to the center of the Earth- start 2/26/16-4/9/16 five stars.20,ooo Leagues Under the Sea-stated 3/05/17-4/23/17 five stars
Science-Fiction
The stories are good and interesting classics. Reading the entire collection all at once can get stale.
I really like Jules Verne's stories but he often goes into specific details that are really boring for me.
My Barnes and Noble leatherbound collection grows by one on Valentine's Day. This book is absolutely stunning.
mind candy
I just absolutely love Jules Verne! The only Reason this book gets 4 stars instead of 5 is because it contains none of the illustrations from the stories.
to-read
Still by far my favorite of all his stories is 20,000 Leagues Under The Sea.
A great collection of his best work.
I have discovered I am not quite a fan of Jules Verne. Some of his tails were quite enjoyable, others not. Most actually seemed more like a dry recording of daily events.
