https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/547863.Maida_s_Little_House
Such a sweet, old fashioned story!
This series is best read in order.Cleanliness: Someone says "Mother of God" and "Lordee." References the Halloween chapter from the previous book as the children reminisce over that party.
One of the gypsies reads fortunes - only mentioned.
A woman is described as being "buxom." Uses of “good gracious” “goodness” “gee” and the like.
Uses the word "negro" once.
Fairies and goblins are referenced when children are imagining/walking through the forest.
Mentions how "once the earth had been covered with great icecaps."
I haven't read the first book in this series, so all of the characters were new to me -- the Big Six, the Little Six, the parents, and the servants.
Of course, I expect children from the 1920s to be depicted as well-mannered, that's part of the fun of reading these old books.
The kids have good old-fashioned fun and willingly do their chores.I did wonder about the gypsy camp.
I have one other book in this series, #5 Maida's Little Camp.
I enjoyed this second story in the "Maida" series, but it wasn't nearly as good as the first book, "Maida's Little Shop".
I do recall from reading these books years ago that "Maida's Little House" was my least favorite title in the series, and I am fairly certain that as I re-read the others, I will enjoy them more than I did this one.
This one serves the purpose, though, of setting up the others, as far as introducing the Little House and environs.
Have been revisitng this series which is well-remembered from my childhood...inherited from my aunts.What I just learned is that Irwin was not part of a writing syndicate as so many series authors were at this time, but was in fact an ardent feminist...certainly makes re-reading these even more interesting.
The Maida books were some of my favorite set of books when I was a child. I loved that Maida had her own little house with a tree growing up throught the center. She always took her friends on adventures with her. She also had her own Village and I don't know how many other things she had, but they were fun books to read.
I utterly adored this book as a child.
Read this as a little girl. Seemed very exciting at the time!
