https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20821111-the-young-elites
I know who you really are. Who will ever want you, Adelina?My fury heightens. Everyone. They will cower at my feet, and I will make them bleed. Two words. Fuck, yeah!I don't even know how to describe this book. Maybe William Shakespeare's Mistborn? It is not without its flaws, but the love of a book, much like the love of a human, is completely chemistry-based, and for me, this book just clicked. Every so often, the planets align, and Khanh completely loves a book. It happens!This book has so m
Whatever.Anyway, it is a pretty shitty life mainly because not so long ago, this fever thing swept through her country, killing massive amounts of people, leaving the rest physically scarred.
Can't blame a girl for fainting after that.Next thing Adelina knows, she wakes up in this totally plush place, handsome stranger rescuer dude is there, and he's in a Super Secret Special Society called The Young Elites.
There are no heroes and heroines in this book, only anti-heroes, and I'll be damned if I didn't love them.Adelina:
I love a strong, dark, bitter, angry character (who's not afraid to kill), and I can only describe Adelina as totally kick-ass.
Want to know what happens when Marie Lu does darker and sexier?  Then read this book. Contrary to what I first believed, this book is not dystopian or post-apocalyptic, but is actually a dark fantasy set in a bleak world full of magic, complex villains and princes looking to reclaim their throne. And it's damn good.Adelina Amouteru is a survivor of a blood fever that swept through her nation when she was a child. The fever left only a few survivors and those survivors remained permanently scarre
Contrary to what I first believed, this book is not dystopian or post-apocalyptic, but is actually a dark fantasy set in a bleak world full of magic, complex villains and princes looking to reclaim their throne.
Aren't complex villains just one of the best things ever?So Adelina gets caught between two powerful groups of people who could each make her life hell, simply take it away from her, or hurt the sister she loves.
(You ALL know what the worst book I ever read was.) But it's not that I think any emotion went into writing it, and it's not like I feel as though the author even cared about her own characters, or the story she was telling.
Adelina will think, "I fantasize over killing people" and then when someone accidentally dies (there are so many accidental deaths in this book that it's sort of ridiculous) she feels like shit and we know it totally wasn't her fault.
I grew to enjoy this book! At first I was hesitant, but the darkness of the characters eventually sucked me in and I will definitely be reading book 2. Here's my full review/discussion/booktalk: http://youtu.be/JMy_wjZDV7E
“I am tired of losing. I am tired of being used, hurt and tossed aside.It is my turn to use.My turn to hurt.My turn. BEFORE READINGHas anyone seen the pictures for this?!?!?! Just with this you know it's going to be EPIC!!!These here are her actual drawings for the characters!!!If it's even half as cool as these pictures it will be the best book ever! Let's hope it lives up to them!More Pictures here: Young Elite Inspiration Picture!!!!!! UPDATE!Now it has a cover!For some reason I expected so
Just with this you know it's going to be EPIC!!!These here are her actual drawings for the characters!!!If it's even half as cool as these pictures it will be the best book ever!
I hope they change it.AFTER READINGThis was a very interesting book to read after reading Vicious by V.E. Schwab.
Just like Vicious this book follows the lives of super powered characters.
Now those with powers, called the young elites, are being hunted down and killed.
It is possible that my enjoyment of the story was affected by my reading of Vicious and the distracted way in which I read the book.
3.5*
Turns out, even though I don’t believe myself to enjoy or, sometimes, want to hurt people, we have many things in common, such as fighting for what is dear to us, family and always trying our best.Enzo is the love-interest of Adelina.
I do understand why Adelina decided to agree to Teren’s terms for the freedom of her dear sister, but I think the whole concept and situation was too simple, in a way.
The author did a great job at creating unforgettable characters but, in my opinion, she kind of neglected the world-building.
*lol*Last week it was Holly Black’s “The Darkest Part of the Forest” this week its Marie Lu’s “The Young Elites” and after reading both books I can say that I regret nothing!
*lol*I guess what I’m trying to say is that I loved the characters!
*lol* That’s just my subtle opinion though so don’t let that keep you from reading “The Young Elites” because I’m sure it will get better with every book that’s following!
I mean I know we’re obviously supposed to ship Adelina and Enzo but I really didn’t feel anything between them… Not at all!
WHY WOULD YOU DO THAT TO ME!?!?!? *cries*
Edit 03/23 : There's no denying that I was disappointed in The Young Elites, but I thought I'd point that I absolutely loved The Rose Society, its sequel. So, you know, fellow minority readers - I hope it will be the same for you^^► My review of book 2 : The Rose Society ★★★★★ ORIGINAL REVIEW Hey YOU! BOOK! You pretended to be right up my alley! You said I will love you! You said you were dark and captivating! The truth is, after getting off to a flying start, the tension loosened more and more,
So, you know, fellow minority readers - I hope it will be the same for you^^► My review of book 2 : The Rose Society ★★★★★
✘ I don't like Mari Lu's writing : I wouldn't be able to point what was wrong, exactly, but I kept feeling that something wasn't quite right with it.
until we start a new cycle again : an amazing scene and then boring pages during which I don't really know what to think.
(apparently, no, but I'll make it a thing, because I can) Indeed I kept feeling distracted during my read and before I could think more about it I was doing something else entirely (laundry, watching TV, just name it).
I've never had such mixed feelings about a book before.Bloody hell.
Pros: it's in the POV of an innocent victim-turned-antihero-turned-villian, which is something you just don't get enough of in the young adult realm (or at least that I've come across).
It feels lifeless, like a fellow classmate reading out a scene from your school literature book; you're hearing it, you're understanding it, but you're not really feeling it.
And if a story's missing that vital component, then you might as well just be scanning ink printed over pages.NONETHELESS, I'm eager to see what becomes of Adelina and her gradual road to evil...or will she?___________________________________Book Song: Exhile by Eastghost.___________________________________
“Some hate us, think us outlaws to hang at the gallows. Some fear us, think us demons to burn at the stake. Some worship us, think us children of the gods. But all know us.  HOLY SHIT this book was that fucking good y'alliM SHOOKim so damn SHOOKThis is the first book I've read in AGES where I've been genuinely thrilled about the plot ? where I've been so excited to know what happens next. I couldn't put this down ?? I'm so happy ??everything about it is just .... amazing. the story, the complex
the anti-hero's and general greyness of the characters, PLOT TWISTS, oh and it's super diverse and aaaaaaaaaaahhhIM SO SHOOK I AM REELING FROM THAT ENDING I NEED THE NEXT BOOK ..
I mean it was okay, but there were no books which made my heart rush, which had me DYING to know the end.
A cast of anti-hero's who do bad things for the ''greater good'' ?
NOTE ABOUT THIS BOOK: absolutely none of these characters are good people.
not too much of it but an interesting romance and one which, like the characters, is complex, built upon ambition and lust for power (perhaps) more then love.
*Gets into left lane*I think someone switched my copy of this book with someone else's. I just can't read this mess. I'm about halfway through it and nothing has happened, well except me sleeping. No awesome world building, MC who got on my nerves..the list goes on. I will give Marie Lu another chance though, cuz I do like her.
Adelina Amouterou is a malfetto; meaning, she is marked and ostracized by her community for surviving a virus that made so many others perish before her.
We want her to succeed even when her motives are questionable, because know society's flagrant disrespect and her father's abuse are what makes her vengeful– and when she learns that she has powers inside of her that can wreak havoc on the world that has spurned her, we find ourselves afraid for her and for the world itself if she succeeds.THE YOUNG ELITES felt both epic in scope (a grand conspiracy, a secret society of warriors, a leader with a hidden secret) but full of specific, almost poetic detail.
A beautiful book with a totally unexpected ending (that crushed me, thanks Marie!) I know this will be one we'll all be talking about for years to come.
❝The darkness bows to me, eager for my embrace. I close my eye, open my heart to the feeling, and soak in the delight of vengeance.❞  When I first joined Goodreads, The Young Elites was one of the first books I tried to read. But after reading the first 50 pages or so, I DNFed it because I was completely creeped out by Adelina's one eye malfetto flaw. XD Plus, I honestly couldn't get into the story. As The Young Elites became more popular, everyone praised this book and series to no end. Every
As The Young Elites became more popular, everyone praised this book and series to no end.
Now here I am jumping onto The Young Elites bandwagon and praising this book like there's no tomorrow.
I'm curious as to how this character turns out in the end and whether or not her thirst for vengeance will make her rise to the top or bring about her downfall.Violetta turned out to be my favorite character in this book along with Raffaele!
Now I can't wait to start The Rose Society and see where our characters go.
Recipe for a awesome YA Fantasy (Young Elites style)You will require:-3/4 of a cup of cultured flour-1/2 cup watery religion-a dash of magic-500 grams of Anti-heroine, dark and bitter-2 teaspoons of Estranged Prince (fiery brand)-1 package of Interesting Side Characters mix-3 diverse eggs, separated amongst LGBT free-range, POC jumbo, and disabled cage-free.-a pinch of deathInstructionsIn a bowl, mix cultured flour and watery religion together to create a rich dough of world-building.
After the mixture thickens, add in the dash of magic.
Leave dough to congeal overnight, then add in Anti-heroine, Estranged Prince, and Interesting Side Characters.
Still waiting for a hyped ya series that doesn't disappoint me lolI seriously don't get why people say the protagonist is an anti hero.
It's hella annoying.The other characters were pretty boring and I can't even remember their names lol.
Additionally, I can't get into details because of spoilers, but there was a plot point which I generally dislike a lot.
That's not necessarily a bad thing about the book, only a personal preference.
were very detailed without being boring.
🙂🙂🙂 I'm still planning on continuing the series because stupid me already bought the books 🙂🙂🙂
HERE IS MY REVIEWCOME AND WATCH! SPOILER FREE AND THEN A DISCUSSION! THERE IS A WARNING BEFORE THE SPOILERS HAPPEN! https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zeJVI...
However, this problem is doubly annoying in TYE with Maire Lu keeps bothering me, in every single chapter, with all the big talks about the 'lurking horrible darkness' inside Adelina and 'the terrible fear and fury' she is supposedly experiencing.To be frank, I can't feel a damn thing.(8)The only good things I can say about this book are...(i) Unlike many pointless YA novels, the story of TYE at least is set to go to a certain direction...with the speed of a snail, and how the story is excised is very damn frustrating.(ii) The final showdown scene is decently written.(9) The ending sucksIn the end, after (view spoiler)[double-crossing the other Elites, screwing up for more than a few times, killing one of the Elites in anger, withdrawing important information from TYE and causing Enzo to get killed, Adelina is finally kicked out of the Young Elites group.
3.5 stars Surprisingly dark, with a sister dynamic similar to Cruel Beauty's and a feel similar to that of Masque of the Red Death's.
I admit that the middle lagged a bit for me, I didn't love the multiple POV structure, and there is a LOT of activity going on in Adelina's heart (many references to energy spiking in it, her feelings, etc), but I quite like this world the author has created, and am intrigued to see where the story goes next.
Fantastic beginning and ending, btw.
That ending tips the star rating up.
*Minor spoilers ahead*Okay, this book is literally nothing like the Legend series.
(i've been dying to do this)Prince Enzo Prince Zuko who is a malfetto a bender with the power of fire with the ability to control fire and is exiled from the palace and throne and is banished from the Fire Nation.
(hide spoiler)]The romance between Adelina and Enzo felt so forced.
This book could seriously have done without the gross romance or at least let it be developed??Overall, this was such an action packed and intriguing read!______Buddy read with the awesome Emma (who i'll tag soon).
"Some hate us, think us outlaws to hang at the gallows. Some fear us, think us demons to burn at the stake. Some worship us, think us children of the gods. But all know us. They call us the Young Elites." Teren, man, you got issues.. man,... you need to get your shit together! Adelina, my sweet, sweet Adelina! Only god knows what's gonna happen to you now. Raffaele, dude, how dare you! I expected more from you. Enzo, my baby, Enzo! I guess, i knew it was gonna happen, it's just the way it went
"Some hate us, think us outlaws to hang at the gallows.
Some fear us, think us demons to burn at the stake.
Some worship us, think us children of the gods.
Teren, man, you got issues..
Only god knows what's gonna happen to you now.
Violetta; yeah, she's got to go!
No, no, don't get me wrong, Teren is still my favorite character, that does not mean i ship him with the MC.
I almost never ship my favorite character with the "the girl".
Examples.Adrian in VA is my favorite character, but my ship has always been Rose and Dimitri.Dorian; FC.
Ship; Adam/Juliette.
Ship; Ronan/Adam!
ORIGINALLY PUBLISHED ON SHELF AWARENESSA Game of Thrones meets X-Men in this 14th-century fantasy from Marie Lu (the Legend trilogy), in a world where "fear is power."Sixteen-year-old Adelina Amouteru is a malfetto, one whose appearance is "marked" by the blood fever that crippled the country of Kenettra and claimed her mother's life.
He takes her to Estenzia, the northern port capital, where Enzo introduces Adelina to the world of the Dagger Society--a group of Young Elites with dangerous powers--and their mission to find malfettos like themselves before the Inquisition can.
“Everyone has darkness inside them, however hidden.”  When a story isn't told by a hero who goes save the world at all costs and goodness can't conquer darkness, so the hero falls to his knees and his story doesn't end well. This is what I want to say about my expereince with this shocking Young Elites series. I am being in awe right now for Lu. I can't believe that she wrote such an amazing story like this among many typical YA books out there. She didn't even try to make her story feel good f
When a story isn't told by a hero who goes save the world at all costs and goodness can't conquer darkness, so the hero falls to his knees and his story doesn't end well.
I am being in awe right now for Lu. I can't believe that she wrote such an amazing story like this among many typical YA books out there.
The Young Elites was hard to get into at first; the protagonist, Adelina Amouteru, is not a villain by nature, she's turned into one after her father pushes her too far, it might be hard for many readers to get attached to her character.
"But that's something everyone says and no one means. No one wants you to be yourself. They want you to be the version of yourself that they like." If you go into this book expecting a hero with nothing but good in her heart, put this book down right now, and go read Harry Potter, or something. This is a book about an anti-hero, a villain, a girl who has been stepped on, used, and manipulated. This is a book about people with an un-tamable hunger for power. This is a book about revenge.  "Such p
They want you to be the version of yourself that they like." If you go into this book expecting a hero with nothing but good in her heart, put this book down right now, and go read Harry Potter, or something.
This is a book about an anti-hero, a villain, a girl who has been stepped on, used, and manipulated.
This is a book about people with an un-tamable hunger for power.
I love anti-heroes.
I love villains.
So what did I do when I heard our MC was an anti-hero, written by Marie Lu?
It is my turn to use. My turn to hurt.My turn.  Blurb: Adelina Amouteru is a survivor of the blood fever. A decade ago, the deadly illness swept through her nation. Most of the infected perished, while many of the children who survived were left with strange markings. Adelina’s black hair turned silver, her lashes went pale, and now she has only a jagged scar where her left eye once was. Her cruel father believes she is a malfetto, an abomination, ruining their family’s good name and standing
But some of the fever’s survivors are rumored to possess more than just scars—they are believed to have mysterious and powerful gifts, and though their identities remain secret, they have come to be called the Young Elites.Note: I have already read this book back when it came out last year but since the second book’s coming out in a few months, why not, yeah?
I don’t know.About that specific event (view spoiler)[Enzo’s death (hide spoiler)], I don’t feel like that was the end of it and maybe because of our new awesome characters, Maeve Jacqueline Kelly Corrigan and her court and her powers but I really believe we’re going to see them in action.
„Some hate us, think us outlaws to hang at the gallows.Some fear us, think demons to burn at the stake,Some worship us, think us children of the gods.But all know us.”  Story ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐Did you ever wished that there was a story about a character so filled with darkness, that she easily could be the villain? Always mistreated, mistrusted and hated Adelina lives a horrible life with her father and sister. He hates her because she is a malfetto, a survivor of the blood fever left with a marking on her
„Some hate us, think us outlaws to hang at the gallows.Some fear us, think demons to burn at the stake,Some worship us, think us children of the gods.But all know us.”  Story ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️Did you ever wished that there was a story about a character so filled with darkness, that she easily could be the villain?
The thing I love the most about the story was the powers the malfettos gained after their fell ill with the blood fever.
Reading about them made me smile, because finally, finally Adelina got some love, something that wasn’t filled with darkness, fear or hate.
This book wrecked me.  The Young Elites is nothing like I expected. Familiar with Marie Lu's style and a die-hard fan of the Legend series, I thought this new story will be along the same lines as Lu's prior works: action-packed, romantic, funny -- you know the drill. Only set in a fantasy world, of course, but nonetheless still cute on a basic level. That... Was a mistake, because The Young Elites is so far from cute you cannot imagine. Eons away from cute. Zero cuteness.  “A newborn babe takes
That's another aspect I loved: the fact that the "special" ones aren't treated as kings and queens like in most books.
It might seem strange for you, especially if you read this book, but I completely loved Adelina and I sort of… clicked with her.
Firstly, the world-building isn't exactly the main element of the story and I would've loved to see it a bit extended.
From the Italian spin on world-building, to the constant rush, overwhelming feelings and original characters, The Young Elites blew away my expectations and delivered a story I honestly fell in love with.
I adore Marie Lu's other series (Legend) - but for some reason I didn't think this one would be up my alley at all.I ended up really connecting with Adelina.
I know this trilogy is more or less about her becoming either a villain or anti-hero...
That being said, I didn't really connect with anyone else in the story though I loved Raffaele and Enzo..
though I'm still hopeful due to that awesome ending...
Same could be said for most of the characters - no one is purely good or purely evil which makes the plot a bit devastating when the characters who are good make heartbreaking decisions.3.
Everyone says book 2 is awesome...8.
