https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17803.After_Dark
If your main interest in fiction is plot and story, and especially if you tend to be the sort of reader who plows straight through a book and then thinks about it only after you're done, "After Dark" is going to be unsatisfying.To me, Murakami is a great author for teaching you how to read (forgive me) proactively.
The first time I read a Murakami novel I ended with the impression that I missed something important, and I only started to "get" his work after I stopped to smell the creeping dread.
Every time I read him, I feel my reasons for choosing a book as company over a real person, legitimized again.
And we, in turn, decode it and instantly feel a pull on the invisible umbilical cord linking us to this person we have never met and, possibly, will never meet.
I know I can let him become my guide, my own personal magician with a wide range of tricks up his sleeve.
Through the bizarre events that a set of individuals go through all in one night, Murakami explores the seedy underbelly of a city and, perhaps, our existence.
This really isn’t a novel to be rushed. This is a novel to be savoured and appreciated, and I think this quote here captures a large part of the book:  "She reads with great concentration. Her eyes rarely move from the pages of the book- a thick hardback. A bookstore wrapper hides the title from us. Judging from her intent expression, the book might contain challenging subject matter. Far from skimming, she seems to be biting off and chewing it one line at a time.” The words and the language see
The title remains hidden; it’s a suggestion that just because we can see the outside it doesn’t necessarily mean we know what is on the inside.
Night-time Tokyo is captured through a camera lens; it’s forever gazing on the symbolic surface level of the character’s existences, through which Murakami slowly begins to reveal their inner workings.
I did really enjoy this book, but somehow I feel that Murakami can do better.
I really do need to read some more of his books, perhaps next time one that has a little more plot.
Spiritually, it was the closest they ever came to each other, a return to the comfort of the cave.Since then, they have drifted apart for no discernible reason.Metaphorically, they have lost touch, but it's almost as if it is important that they have literally lost "touch" as well.Close to YouAlthough Eri never fully regains consciousness during the span of the novel, their reconciliation and sense of wholeness begin when Mari learns to open up personally over the course of meetings with strangers during the night and decides to sleep in Eri's bed, holding her close under the sheets, just as the sun starts to rise and the darkness starts to dissipate.Open Up and Let Me InIn Murakami's concluding words, "this hint of things to come takes time to expand in the new morning light, and we attempt to watch it unobtrusively, with deep concentration.
So I tried my best to link two major ideas that struck me at first.This book seemed to me to occupy itself with the phenomena of observance.
It is like a dream where you wake up and can't really describe anything that has happened to yourself, yet you are undeniably left with a deep, pensive attitude superseding all of the quotidian aspects of the morning.I like that Murakami does that to me.I like that he connects two completely unrelated things that I can never make much sense out of.I most certainly recommend this book.
I close my eyes again but soon feel in my heart that the darkness I so desire has fled.
The floor hasn’t been cleaned in a little while and I feel small grains of cluttered dust, sand and crumbles cling to the soles of my feet.
I close the door in displeasure but in the speed of the movement I see a flash of darkness.
The mood is palpable from the first sentence onwards and I’m taken away into a scenery where sympathetic darkness prevails, allowing glimpses into its secrets.
I am close to understanding the night, as I feel it both within the pages and within me.
1.هل تُدرك معنى أن تقرأ رواية كاملة من 240 صفحة في ليلة واحدة فحسب؟2.لا أحب موراكامي، هذا اعترافٌ يص
اما شاید-فقط شاید-اگه باهم باشیم حرف بزنیم، پس از مدتی یه چیز مثل موسیقی متن فرانسیس لای در پس زمینه پخش میشود؛ و از جایی نامعلوم یک خروار دلیل مشخص روی سرمان میریزد؛ که چرا به تو علاقه دارماگر بخت به ما رو کند، شاید برف هم برایمان ببارد...ماجرای یک دختر 18- 19 ساله است به نام «ماری»،‏ که خواهری بزرگتر از خود دارد.
یا بهتر بگویم، گهگاه طاقتم طاق می‏شود از اینکه زیر یک سقف با خواهرم به سر برم و سر درنیاورم که چرا دو ماه، نیمه جان است.» - پس از خانه درمی‏آیی و شب‏ها خیابان گز می‏کنی؟ ماری می‏گوید: «فقط خوابم نمی‏برد.
و سواء كانت هذه الذكريات ذات أهمية أم لا فإن ذلك لا يهم طالما أن الأمر يتعلق باستمرارية الحياة.
الذكريات المهمة و الذكريات غير المهمة جميعها معدومة الجدوى و ليس ثمة فرق بينهما فكلها مجرد وقود.أعتقد لو أنه لو لم يكن لديّ ذلك الوقود و لو لم يكن لديّ تلك الأدراج من الذكريات لكنت انفجرت منذ زمن طويل.
سواء كانت ذكريات مهمة أو غير مهمة فإنني أستطيع أن أعيش ذلك الكابوس الذي يسمى الحياة.كالنور و الظلام كانتا إيري و ماري.
فما أن يتواجد أحدهما حتى يختفي الأخر.و لكن تلك كانت أخر مرة.
Clearly his efforts are becoming more and more of a nuisance--because you must read his entire body of work, you need to trudge through latter stuff, like this one, Verrrry Minor Murakami*. The best thing? The open-endedness in some of the various hallucinations/tableaux. The most irritating? His 1 page-per American reference, and the halo to the Japanese master of All (Crap!) Things USA.*newly discovered literature genre (circa 2016)
WHY DO I NOT READ MURAKAMI MORE OFTEN?Video review will be up Wednesday :)
I love how Takahashi explains here how Esi’s effective disappearance haunts him:”…the more time goes by, the stronger it gets, like, I’m not even here: I’m not included in what’s going on here.
This layer, like some kind of transparent sponge kind of thing, stands between Eri Asai and me, and the words that come out of my mouth have to pass through it, and when that happens, the sponge sucks up almost all of the nutrients right out of them.
أى مابعد منتصف الليلعلى مدار سبع ساعات فى ليلة من ليالى الشتاء فى مدينة ما ، تدور الحكاية ثلاث قصص مختلفة لأشخاص مختلفين تتلاقى فى إطار مصادفات غريبة ولكن ، اتفقنا ، لا مجال للإستغراب هنا ياسادة دعونا نتحدث قليلاً عن بداية تلاقى الشخصيات الثلاث المحورية بدون حرق للأحداث ولكن وعد منكم ألّا تتركوا الريفيو فى المنتصف وتُصابوا بالملل ..
اتضحت الآن بداية الرواية بالنسبة لكهذه هى بداية الرواية وبداية اللقاء للثلاث أشخاص محور الأحداث ويبدأ كل طرف منهم يحكى قصته للآخر وفى الخلفية تدور أحداث أخرى فى محاولة للوصول إلى المعتدى على الفتاة البائسة فأنت بالطبع لن تجلس طوال الرواية تسمع حكايات كلاً من الثلاثة أشخاص بدون أن يكون هناك هدف أساسى فى الخلفية يجعلك تكمل الرواية ..
Some time later we travel into another room where the same man is sat at a desk and is typing on a computer keyboard and on closer inspection of the screen we see it is a site called 'goodreads' and he appears to be writing a review of a book, we presume it's for the book he recently completed and it reads as the following,I have always had a fascination with the thought of major city's during the hours of night and one of those would be Tokyo, but not necessarily for what you can see like huge neon signs, the hustle and bustle of clubs, bars,food joints and people making there why home.
"Is action merely the incidental product of thought, or is thought the consequential product of action?" I'm merely three books old in the Murakami World and I find myself beguiled by the Murakamiesque surrealism. Admittedly, I've developed a taste for the way his stories unfold and come to an anomalous ending; After Dark is no exception to this.The story actually transports you to those wee midnight "after dark" hours and captures all the activities going on during that period. It's like the e
"Is action merely the incidental product of thought, or is thought the consequential product of action?"
I'm merely three books old in the Murakami World and I find myself beguiled by the Murakamiesque surrealism.
I LOVE listening to most of the songs mentioned and that makes me love his books even more.
"That people's memories are maybe the fuel they burn to stay alive.
I'll admit right off the bat, for example, that I'm a big and longtime fan of Murakami myself; that before today's review I had already read four of his thirteen books now available in English, and in fact love his work so much that I've named one of my past Macintoshes after him.
“It’s true, though: time moves in its own special way in the middle of the night.”I read Murakami’s After Dark exclusively at night time.
How can one sleep at a time so elegant and enigmatic?This light novel about strange things that happen during the night is an entree in the gourmet realm of Murakami’s works; a tasty little sample to savor standing amidst the master’s more formidable courses.
I want to believe that Murakami purposely kept it short and lingering, for like the story, sometimes we want the night to last, to continue its darkness.
They were wooden, and not very fleshed out, like vaguely romanticized caricatures.The narrative suffered--I'm guessing--because of the translation; there were details here and there that sort of pulled me out of the story to wonder how true they were: the main girl, a book-reading, chain-smoking, Godard-loving 19 year old, hangs out at Denny's--in Japan, although plausible, is it likely?
The dialog is bad enough in some instances that it pulled me from the story to consider its plausibility...Here's some sample thought-dialog, by the book-reader's intellectually opposite and inferior older sister:For some reason, a different kind of reality has taken the place of my normal reality.
ولأننا دائمًا ما نبدأ مع الكُتاب بأعمالهم الأشهر والأكثر نجاحًا ، ولأنها دائمًا ما ترفع سقف توقعاتنا
Sure, it should be kinda obvious from such a big name like Murakami, but this is, after all, my first foray into his works.
I didn't have any expectations, so I just let myself flow with all the many characters and let myself enjoy the impressions and the interesting conversations and enjoy the admittedly adroit tension that lurked like a hot thread throughout the night.I loved the whole idea of Alphaville, but then, I am a sucker for all things SF, even if it's just a discourse about SF, imaginary or not.
Ιδιαίτερη γραφή, κλασσικός Murakami!P.S: Διαβάστε το κατά προτίμηση τις μικρές ώρες, ώστε να το απολαύσετε περισσότερο!
مرد: به نظرت میتوانیم به زودی باز همدیگر را ببینیم؟زن: منظورت این است که قرار بگذاریم؟مرد: میشود این جوری هم گفتزن: اما چند بار بهم گفتهاند که شخصیت تاریکی دارممرد: این جور نیست که زندگیمان فقط به تاریکی و روشنایی تقسیم شده باشد.
یک منطقهی میانی سایهدار هم هست.
کار عقل سالم تشخیص و فهم این سایههاست.
کسب عقل سالم هم قدری زمان و جد و جهد میطلبدزن: ولی چرا باید به من علاقهمند باشی؟مرد: سئوال خوبی است.
در حال حاضر خودم هم جوابش را نمیدانم.
اما شاید – فقط شاید – اگر با هم باشیم و حرف بزنیم، پس از مدت
مرد: به نظرت می‌توانیم به زودی باز همدیگر را ببینیم؟زن: منظورت این است که قرار بگذاریم؟مرد: می‌شود این جوری هم گفتزن: اما چند بار بهم گفته‌اند که شخصیت تاریکی دارممرد: این جور نیست که زندگی‌مان فقط به تاریکی و روشنایی تقسیم شده باشد.
کسب عقل سالم هم قدری زمان و جد و جهد می‌طلبدزن: ولی چرا باید به من علاقه‌مند باشی؟مرد: سئوال خوبی است.
اما شاید – فقط شاید – اگر با هم باشیم و حرف بزنیم، پس از مدتی چیزی مثل موسیقی متن (فرانسیس‌لای) در پس‌زمینه پخش می‌شود و از جایی نامعلوم یک خروار دلیل مششخص روی سرمان می‌ریزد که چرا به تو علاقه دارم.
The two sisters, the two 19 year old girls (one Chinese coming to Japan, one Japanese going to China), the two ‘computer experts’, the two frightening men in the television screens – and so on as far as the eye can see.Now, I don’t want to leave the impression that I was annoyed by this – actually, fiction is the best place for these kinds of binaries and they help us to understand the themes of texts in ways it is very hard to understand such themes otherwise.
Blended together, these elements make for a surreal reading experience that is both fantastic and illusory.
On one page you have a straight forward narrative of life during the wee hours of the night in Japan.
But on the other page, a journey is taking place.
Where this journey will end is anyone's guess.
From a sleeping sister to a brothel to a kid that plays in a jazz band to a woman searching for her relationship with the sleeping sister, Murakami takes the reader to every corner of the imagination.
If you like to be entranced during a reading experience, AFTER DARK is the perfect novel for you.
للمرة الثانية يفقدني هاروكي موراكامي عقلي، بعد روايته "نعاس"علي نفس الخطي نمشي انا و هاروكيهو يكتب و يكتب و انا انسي نومي و عملي و طعامي، افقد عقلي تدريجياو اندمج لاصبح انا بداخل سطوره، تائهة ابحث عن النهاية، بينما خيالي سارحا للبحث عن مغزي السطورحتي نصل للنهاية صدمة الصدمات ف اظل أكررنعم!
هل انتهيت؟!!!
هذا الساحر الياباني، يمسك يديك بخفة، يدخلك المتاهة،يقودك نحو الهلاك لن اكتب شرح تفصيلي عن الرائعة تلك، حتي لا اساهم في كشف مفاجأتها عمن لم يتناولها بعد.و لكن اقول انه ما بعد الظلام، بامكانك ان تجد ذاتك، فقط تحتاج المرايا التي تكشف لك طريق النور في روحك، اعلم ان للنور مكمن في ركن ضيق من أركان الروح :)
هذا الريڤيو كان من أسباب قراءتي للرواية:https://goo.gl/EbJLTqرواية جميلة، مسك الختام بحق، سأفتقد مورا، صديقي الجديد، وعالمه البديع الغريبسأفتقد رواياته المجنونة بحق، على أمل انتظار ترجمة بقيتها، أو على أمل أكبر منه، أن أتعلم اليابانية، فقط من أجلهيقول:هكذا كان شعوري خلال تلك الفترة، وهو أن أبي ما كان ينبغي له قط أن يتركني وحيدًا، أيًا كانت الأسباب. ما كان ينبغي له قط أن يجعلني يتيمًا في هذا العالم، أيًا كان السبب، ما كان ينبغي له الذهاب.حسنًا، وفي النهاية، عندما تصبحين يتيمة، تظلين يتيمة حتى يوم رحيلك عن العالم
"Alphaville," says Emír Rodríguez Monegal, "is the city of Alpha—that is to say, of Aleph." "Come to think of it," says Murakami through the mouth of Kaoru, "the Alphaville may be the perfect name for a love ho." To make a long story short, Godard’s Alphaville makes several references to Borges' essay, "A New Refutation of Time," and Murakami’s After Dark makes several references to Godard’s Alphaville.Moreover, After Dark contains an Asterion too.
In another sense, they met him in the Room 426 of "1Q84"."After Dark" is a fascinating novel about a girl who cannot sleep and about a girl who cannot wake up.
If you opened this book up at any page without first looking at its cover you would still know immediately who the author was.
Haruki Murakami has such a distinctive style it could be no one else.
This particular book is very short and in my opinion not the best he has written.
I loved the way he evokes those dark hours between midnight and dawn but there is less than usual substance to the book and an awful lot of mystery which is never solved.
I think I needed a few more chapters and a little bit more resolution to feel completely satisfied.
الأدب الياباني عموماً من خلال قرائتي في أكثر من موضوع هو من النوع المُعقد والملئ بالتساؤلات والإستفسارت التي تحتاج إلى إجابات شافية..أول عمل أقرأه للعظيم هاروكي موراكامي..
وقررت البدء بعمل إلى حداً ما مقبول لهاروكي.الرواية عُبارة عن دوامة من المناقشات..
الرواية تُعتبر كدليل على عادات وتقاليد اليابان..
من شدة إتقان الوصف لهاروكي في بعض الاحيان شعرت أنني في اليابان أتجول في شوارعها..
أيضاً يُذكر لهاروكي أنه قد قام بإظهار السلبيات في اليابان بكل جراءة..
بالإضافة إلى هوايتنا فى إظهار أقذر ما فينا.أكثر من آثر في في الرواية هي ماري..
وعندما انتهت الرواية تعجبت أنني كيف لم اشعر بالملل في الرواية؟ الأسلوب أهم من القصة في بعض الاحيان.
Ono što je na malom broju strana uspeo da mi predoči jeste koliko sam pre malo pažnje posvećivala naraciji nekog dela dok sam ga čitala, smatrajući je sekundarnim aspektom same priče, usmerivši pritom svu koncentraciju na likove i njihove zgode i nezgode.Ovde je naracija srce priče i zvezda vodilja, skreće pažnju poput filmske kamere i izoštrava sliku stavljajući u fokus sve što likove okružuje kao i ono što ih povezuje..
Ne čudi stoga što sam se setila pojedinih filmskih naracija iz italijanske kinematografije šezdesetih, ali i francuske, kako iz već pomemutog perioda tako i ove novije, iz ostvarenja "Čudesna sudbina Amelije Pulen."Nekako sam poput Takahašija bila privučena pojavom devojke koja u pet minuta do ponoći čita knjigu u lokalu Denny's.
