https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/918789.West_Side_Story
Y es doloroso tener que aceptar la casi inevitable consecuencia de su inocencia disfrazada de dureza.Es una historia corta y sencilla, esta con un enfoque más bien romántico pero sin perder de vista la lealtad que caracteriza a los amigos, y se ahonda muy poco en los personajes, pero el autor pudo dar una buena muestra de lo que hay en la mente de cada chico y aunque no se les dedicó grandes párrafos, en los diálogos se nos aporta lo suficiente para conocer lo que se esconde detrás de los actos de cada persona aquí descrita.
I really enjoyed this book. It's easier to split up my review however, so I will. Likes I really, really liked the depth added to the characters. In the movie, all of the characters, even Tony and Maria, felt a little distant. However, in the novel, I could feel and relate to them. I loved knowing what was going through their heads, and seeing certain scenes through the eyes of the characters. I also liked reading it without the songs (don't get me wrong, I LOVE the songs). It made the story so
In the movie, all of the characters, even Tony and Maria, felt a little distant.
I know there's hate on both sides, but honestly, I feel like they started.
Like I stated above, the book gave a more emotional connection.I also disliked how quickly the plot moved.
One thing that annoyed me about the plot was (view spoiler)[ Maria and Anita's reaction to Bernardo's death.
Maria just forgives Tony for murdering her brother?
And then Maria had the nerve to tell Anita that she didn't understand, and that she had truly loved Bernardo, she would have understood.
Also, in the past when watching the movie, I viewed each gang as a whole and after reading the lines of each member of each gang, I found a new appreciation for the individual characters in the Sharks and in the Jets.
In addition, I liked how the connection between Tony and Maria deepened from page to page and the mixing of the two ethnicities: the Caucasian Jets and the Spanish Sharks.
I would recommend this play to anyone who has seen the movie or stage production of "West Side Story" or for anyone who wants to read a tragic love story.
So basicly this book is about a group of people from Puerto Rico who Immagrate to America.
The American's do not want the Puerto Ricans in Their town.
So they both Hatee eachother and both created groups called: Jets(Americans) And Sharks(Puerto Ricans).
The main idea Is that thee 2 leader of the jets named Tony Falls in love with this young girl from the sharks named Maria.
I racomend this book to people who LOVE romance !
This book is full of romance scenes where Tony and maria fight for their love !
The greatest American musical.
Doesn't hurt that the story is ripped off from Shakespeare but hey, that' guy's dead, what does he care?
Kind of silly to read it when you can watch the movie though.
Best thing about the movie: the dancing.
Worst thing: Natalie what'shernames ridiculous accent.
Seriously she sounds like she's from Transylvania and has the worst spray tan you've ever seen.
She'd be pretty otherwise, but then I found out she didn't even do the singing!
If Hollywood wasn't so racist she'd have been in a lot more movies, that's for sure.
She didn't need a spray tan!
Terrible novelization. TERRIBLE. I'm not even going to review it, it was so terrible - it doesn't deserve one yottasecond of my time and energy.
Tony used to be part of the Jets but sought a new life by leaving the gang.
Bernardo then challenged Tony and when he refused to fight, Riff stepped in to fight Bernardo.
Bernardo kills Riff with a knife, so Tony stepped up and killed Bernardo.
Later, Tony was hiding out because Chino, part of Bernardo's gang, was looking to hurt Tony for revenge, even though Maria had forgiven him.
Anita, Bernardo's lover, was still mad, so when she went to see Tony at the drugstore he works that, she falsely told him Chino had killed Maria because he found out about the two of them.
The Sharks, a gang of Puerto Rican immigrants who also think they run the town.
Maria, the sister of the Shark's leader Bernardo, and Tony, the 'right hand man' to the leader of the Jets.
When the rumble starts, things begin to escalate quickly, with Tony's friend and Jet leader Riff is killed.
When Chino, Bernardo's friend, is seen looking for Tony with a gun, the Jets are warned of this threat.
Tony becomes so distraught with the news of Maria's 'death' that he runs out into the street yelling for Chino to kill him.
This was a pretty good adaptation of the play.
I didn't love how much it focused on Riff in the beginning, especially because Tony didn't get introduced until nearly halfway through and he's a pretty major character.
In the play they seemed more like rebellious teens pulling off minor crimes and beating up the Puerto Rican gang members.
As opposed to in the book they beat up any Puerto Rican, even old people, and apparently rape women, so it was a lot harder for me to sympathize with them.
A very nice "modern" version/interpretation of Romeo and Juliet that takes a look at certain aspects of society (gang culture and racism) that are still applicable today.
The generational conflict that is present at times but takes a background role (racism and the power struggle being two themes that are more dominant) is very interesting, especially when looking at the character of Doc, an older man who means well but who is ignored by the youth until the point when he finally has enough.
Siempre he sentido debilidad por esas novelas que ambientan la década de los 60's con sus colores, sus sonidos y todo esa ambientación tan de la época. West Side Story es una obra bastante lograda, una historia de amor del siglo XX que emula los clásicos antiguos de la tragedia pero con el toque moderno que encanta a todos por igual.
Don't get me wrong, I love the musical. I'm just not a fan of the novelization... The broadway was inspired after Romeo and Juliet and what makes it unique from the play was it's music. Novelizing it lost it's uniqueness.
While the words are dated the story is not. I've always loved the movie and the play to West Side Story and now I can add the book as well. I love the lingo used and it was great to get a more in depth feel of the characters and what they were feeling. Solid 4 stars
As a fan of the film I picked up this book thinking it would just be a fun little rehash of the story, something small to carry in my bag and read on breaks at work.
However, this book is too rushed.
The first half fleshed out a lot of moments before Maria and Tony met, but the second half hardly had time to let the characters think about what happens.
If this had been stretched out into a longer book and the second half of the book fleshed out like the first half I might have enjoyed it more.
Not the best production quality on this audio book so just beware. Love the story though...
An undeniable classic but it’s just not the same without the music. And this really shows its age!
I was good.
5 stars- Ms. Jenn
The movie was great. The ending form the novelization was rushed in my opinion.
One of my favorite childhood books. Love the movie.
Confused...
West side story is about two rival gangs from New York; the Jets who are whites and lead by Riff, and the Shark who are Puerto Rican and lead by Bernardo. They have a showdown against each other and Tony Riffs best friend shows up. Bernardo's sister goes too, who just arrived from Puerto Rico is working with Anita, Bernardos girlfriend. Maria and Tony fall in love at first sight. Riff proposes a battle without weapons and Bernardo accepts it. Tony goes to Maria's apartment and the love each othe
Tony goes to Maria's apartment and the love each other.
SHe founds out about the battle and tell tony to stop it.
Anita finds out that Chino has plans to kill Tony.
Maria is undergoing questions about the murder while Anita goes to the drugstore to make Tony wait for Maria, but the Jets showed up first and insult Anita; she tells them that Chino has killed Maria.
When Tony finds out he is devastated and want revenge so he goes find Chino.
Tony's death incited a fight between the two gangs, Maria tell them to stop because this is their fault.
West Side Story reads like a mix of R&J and The Outsiders, and if you've read both books, you can probably imagine how horrible that sounds.
I think this book had potential; I was thinking it would at least be better than Romeo and Juliet, but I was severely dissapointed.
The way the author pulled it off made me feel like I wasted my time.
Now I'm gonna go change my Romeo and Juliet rating to a three star, and get it off the "craptastic" shelf, because this book really made me feel like I took R&J for granted.
It is the modern version of Romeo and Juliet, adapted from the play.
It's an easy read, don't get me wrong, but it was way too cheesy for my liking.
It all feels quite rushed but I guess that''s because it's based off a two to three hour play.
Yes, the whole book occurs within two days.
I like more "thinking-type" novels, even romantic sometimes, but this was just over the top to the point of where I wanted to vomit over my copy.
I accidentally spilled water in my purse over the entire book and now it's ruined.
The Sharks and The Jets are gangs at odds over "their" turf.
When they meet on neutral ground (the community center) for a dance, Maria and Tony fall in love.
Tony hears of a rumble that is planned between the two gangs, and when he tries to stop the fighting, he gets involved in a murder (Maria's brother).
Like Romeo, Tony comes to a fatal end leaving Maria to make sense of the violence.
The ending made me cry and throughout the book I wished the Sharks and Jets could have heard John Lennon's message "All we are saying is give peace a chance."
This is probably because of the lack of beautiful music and dancing, the rawness of the language which was not in the movie of the same name (though it may have appeared on stage), and the update putting it in the middle of a gang war...
That, and the language, is much more immediate to us than the family feud of the original.
The child will need some preparation...though maybe not as much as I think.
Overall the books we are reading this year will make for a really depressing summer--maybe not quite as depressing as if we were reading 1984, but still...
Sharks, Puerto Rican, and the Jets, Whites, two very strong street gangs roaming the streets of Los Angeles in the 1930's.
As these two gangs get ready for a fist battle, something bad happens between the Sharks and Jets that will change things forever.I really enjoyed this book, it was really similar to Romeo and Juliet's plot but had a little twist to it.
It was interesting to see how different authors take other authors plot and add whatever they want to it.
This book was really interesting and short, I finished it after 2 hours.
I have recently finished reading a marvelous book called West Side Story.
West Side Story was written by Irving Shulman and published by Simon and Schuster.
It is very similar to Romeo and Juliet.
I loved this book not only because it was very short, but also because it reminded me of Romeo and Juliet and I loved that story too.
I do not want to give too much away of the story, but it is definitely a must read.
I think that everyone, whom liked Shakespeare’s Romeo and Juliet, would like Shulman’s West Side Story.
An interesting side-note to one of the biggest musicals of all time, Irving Shulman's novel based on "West Side Story" fleshes out the nature of the Sharks and Jets.
While the movie and musical give the impression that other than a borderline race war, these are relatively decent, naïve, innocent kids playing at being scrappers until they go too far, Shulman characterizes the gang boys as street toughs with real experience.
Robberies, assaults, gay-bashing and more are all implied or outright stated as common Jet activities within the first few pages.
Does this improve the story?
I'm not sure, but it certainly adds depth.
Aside from the fact that this play is based on Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet, it is definitely something to read, mainly because it is one of the most famous R&J adaptations out there. I suppose what I liked most about this book was the influx of Puerto Rican culture. (This is especially well portrayed in the 90's musical adaptation). Any other points I have to make are more on the musical and less on the book, so I'll refrain here. (Except: I love that fight scene!! I want to dance that!!!)
