https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/838938.The_True_Story_of_Ah_Q
This, Lu Xun's only novel is rather popular in China.
There 'Ah-Q' is a mocking expression for someone who is finds meaningless spiritual victories in his defeats and loses.
This is exactly what character of Ah-Q is constantly doing, finding spiritual victory whenever he is being beaten by people, which is a rather frequent occurance.
The metaphor is rather strong - how many nations, cultures and individuals find something to be proud of in their most humiliating loses?The writing seems to be strongly inspired by Gogol -the similar dark humour, similar display of humanity as something pathetic and similar use of deceptively simple looking story containing lots of allusions and metaphors, to understand which you need to have deep knowledge of Chinese culture.
A remarkable short story, about a man who is relentlessly proud of his 'spiritual victories', after he gets beaten up, humiliated, and gets his head sliced off while trying to think of a line from Chinese opera to quote. Thick with allegory. Need to get more from this author.
This piece is an eye opener to the Chinese culture, although it comes in the form of a Fiction novel. The novel takes place in the country side of China, and follows the character named Ah Q from the time of his adulthood until death. Ah Q is considered as nobody amongst the town people and he is very much complacent with that, until he gets the opportunity to make a name for himself and reputation. The novel gives way to the struggle and standard that the Chinese are held up to, in order to be considered a success.
just finished reading the bilingual edition of "the true story of ah q by" lu xun (chinese/french) for my modern and contemporary chinese literature class, and I kind of enjoyed it.
this novella is generally held to be a masterpiece of modern chinese literature, it is also considered as the first piece of work to fully utilize vernacular chinese after the may 4th movement in 1919, china.i said that i kind of liked it because i simply didn't liked the translation ive read but still liked the story after all.
truly interesting in my opinion, and I will definitely have to read more things by lu xun
While I am fully aware that I need to be far more well-versed in Chinese history to fully understand Lu Xun’s critique and social commentary of Chinese society and culture, what satire I did recognize was sharply written. Ah Q is the embodiment of all of China’s faults and flaws prior to the Cultural Revolution, and Lu Xun writes it well. It’s kind of comical to read about Ah Q’s journey, and the end of the story makes it clear as to what Lu Xun’s feelings are about the state of Chinese national character at the time.
Ah Q is the best story I've ever read by a Chinese author.
Esta obra pertenece al mismo autor del Diario de un Loco.
Es un poco más larga, pero también se lee en dos horas como máximo.En esta obra estamos con A.Q, llamado así porque el autor no conoce su verdadero nombre.
A.Q vive en un pueblo, y podemos ver como sobrevive gracias a pequeños trabajos que le hace a sus vecinos, los cuales cuando no está haciendo ningún encargo lo tratan con desprecio.Es un libro que empezó a gustarme, al igual que el Diario de un Loco, me despertaba interés, sobre todo por la actitud del protagonista, pero a medida que iba leyendo se me hacía más pesado.Si os gustó el Diario de un Loco, os recomiendo a pesar de todo este otro relato.
Estuve a punto de ponerle 3 estrellas. Quedó más cerca de 4 estrellas gracias a su mordacidad y cinismo. Es un cuento entretenido y sirve para conocer la China pre-revolucionaria.
Đọc AQ thì vui cười rồi xót xa, Thỏ và Mèo thì đáng yêu, một tuyển tập mang lại nhiều cảm xúc cho người đọc. Mình thấy giọng văn Lỗ Tấn hiền lắm nhé. Thấy một phần xã hội nông thôn TQ qua những kỷ niệm tuổi thơ nơi quê nhà ông, thấy cả tâm tình của một bộ phận trí thức nơi thành thị, thấy nỗi cô đơn, nỗi buồn đau của tình yêu. Có vài chi tiết châm biếm vừa cười vừa bẽ bàng. Giọng văn ấy luôn giản dị, từ tốn, một nhà văn thật đáng quý.
Thật tình là truyện hơi khó đọc đối với mình, tình hình chính sự cũng như các vấn đề về cách mạng TQ mình cũng ko rõ. Nhưng nếu câu chuyện chỉ trích lối suy nghĩ kéo theo hành động cực đoan của Ah Q, rồi cuối cùng cũng ko thanh thản hơn nổi cái cực đoan sâu ngun ngút nơi xã hội - văn minh ý thức Trung Hoa thời bấy giờ, qua hình ảnh mình cực ấn tượng đó là ánh mắt "con sói đói", thì chẳng phải Ah Q không còn đáng trách nữa hay sao?
Lu Xun exposes all the ugliness and backwardness in Chinese society at the turn of the twentieth century. Interestingly, I can see many things he describes in my own society and the Asian mentality in general.
La grande letteratura alle radici della Cina modernaE’ sempre molto complesso tentare di comprendere appieno testi o altre forme d’arte che appartengono a culture lontane nel tempo e nello spazio dalla nostra, soprattutto se si desidera andare al di là di una analisi di tipo meramente estetico, e cercare di capire perché un prodotto artistico sia stato generato proprio in quella forma e quali ne siano i presupposti sociali e culturali.Prima di entrare nel merito dei due racconti che questo volume ci propone, è quindi a mio avviso opportuno addentrarci in una sommaria analisi della personalità artistica e civile dell’autore e della situazione del suo paese nell’epoca in cui egli visse, perché senza questi appigli credo non sia possibile andare oltre la superficie di queste due importanti opere.Lu Xun, nato nel 1881 e morto nel 1936, è uno dei più importanti scrittori cinesi moderni.
Thử mà mình có được cái lối suy nghĩ ấy thì chả bao giờ biết bi quan là gì, ấy là "ngu si hưởng thái bình", đọc AQ rồi thì làng Vũ Đại cũng chỉ là một cậu học trò con.Trong quyển sách này không chỉ có Thuốc và AQ mà còn rất nhiều tác phẩm khác của Lỗ Tấn, một số là châm biếm, một số thể hiện tư tưởng và lối suy nghĩ của ông, và rất nhiều trong số đó mình không thể cảm được, có lẽ chỉ có những người trí thức sống ở đúng thời gian đó, đúng thời điểm đó mới hiểu nổi những suy nghĩ này.
A Q is an outcast, one who nevertheless has an irreplaceable place in the small village that he lives in.
However the world sees him, he lives with content in his own translation.
I think Lu Xun's description of a sociopathic narcissistic outlier reflects more on the world around him than the person himself.
The fact that the villagers buy A Q's bluff reflects they know as much about what's going on as A Q does; the fake westerner's cruelty toward his fellow countrymen makes "revolution" an oxymoron.

This book is one of those books that has more meanings behind the words. Like novels such as Animal Farm, The True Story of Ah Q critically reflects the gloomy era of China during the 1900s, before the Agrarian Revolution. However, the literature value of this book is not lacking. It is equally as successful regarding the literature aspect as many other world renowned novels. The way he portrays a character through direct and indirect characterization, the satire he integrates, are all (in my opinion) truly on a world-class level.
Hành văn vô cùng xuất sắc. Đọc AQ thấy hình ảnh của người TQ và cả người VN. Thói thủ dâm tinh thần, sự hèn nhát và sĩ diện hão đầu độc cả dân tộc. Lỗ Tấn bằng ngòi bút của mình, tả lại thảm trạng của dân tộc vừa bi lại vừa hài, dư âm để lại là những tiếng cười vô cùng xót xa.
Quánh giá riêng cho AQ thôi nhé.Bản trên này hẳn 500 mấy trang, chắc là tuyển tập Lỗ Tấn luôn, thôi thì rate đỡ.
4.5/5
These chapters criticize the weakness and tendency to compromise China's national bourgeoisie."The story penetratingly analyzes the character of Ah Q, whose thinking is influenced and poisoned by the feudal ruling class which exploits and oppresses him.
It was the author's sincere hope that the broad masses of peasants, victims of feudal oppression and imperialist aggression, might be aroused and rise in resistance against them."The simplicity and directness of style, and the beauty of Lu Hsun's language, place The True Story of Ah Q high among literary works of the time for both content and style."~~back coverI suspect that I don't have the proper background to appreciate this book, as all I saw was a peasant too backward to comprehend how ill-treated he was, and what a laughingstock he was.Obviously others perceived more than I did.
Of course courtesy Foreign Languages Press, Peking (Beijing), they were affordable (not as affordable as the Progress Publishers books, but still, affordable for students earning on the sly with one or two tutions).His stories, prose poems, essays all are so simply written that even bad translators couldn't kill their flavour.
I don't know Chinese and don't know if any of the Bengali translators knew Chinese.Having a look at the LU Xun books on my self, I find: (FLP - Foreign Languages Press, E - English)1.
Selected Stories of LU HSUN (FLP - E)7.
Selected Stories (BENGALI)I had read all his available books.
Definitely five-star. I am not sure about the English translation though. I read the original version. Lu Xun is a very skillful writer, note how he deals with narrator. When reading the original version, I can't help laughing out loud because of his humor. In the end, you might hate Ah-q but you might also pity him. He was respected by no one, partly his fault, partly the society's fault. Nobody cares about him, or even his death. It is a sad story.
Although, the first time I read this novel I took everything that happened to Ah Q at face value.
I understood that there were many underlying themes within the story, I was not able to understand all of them because I did not know much about Chinese social and political history.
It is my understanding that Ah Q was meant to represent the "every man" of China during the time the novel was written, and these ideas of mob mentality and the extreme close mindedness of his neighbors lead to his demise.
Intentos que lo ponen en situaciones donde siempre terminal muy mal parado y la mayoria de las veces golpeado.Esta breve historia de tan singular personaje tiene de marco los últimos días del imperio chino y los inicios de la revolución, pero estos aunque afectan de manera dramática a los personajes, son más un eco que una confrontación directa.Con gran detalle narra las interacciones sociales en esta aldea y como por conveniencia el trato personal puede cambiar de un día a Otro.Es una historia divertida, interesante y sumamente corta que vale la pena leer.
It is Lu Xun putting a microscope on the confucian society that he himself rejected.Ah Q's character can be described as the town fool.
The towns people are constantly beating him, most instances are deserved while others are just a result of Ah Q foolishly attempting to fit in.
The only time the towns people are accepting of him is when he has things for them.
It is when he runs out of stolen goods that they commence to rejecting him just as fast as they accepted him.
The story concludes in Ah Q attempting to join the rebellion; another foolish attempt to fit in.
The True Story of Ah Q presents the missing link of a nation.
The missing link being the ability to sympathize for a fellow human being.
The Nation being China, which during the context of the piece was a ruthless living domain for the underprivileged.
The story follows Ah Q as he battles others and himself physically and mentally.
Lu Xun uses irony to detest Chinese qualities that have called the people of their setting to create such a brutal place to live where each individual is worried only for themselves.
The book is a great expression of Chinese culture and a wonderful satire.
Te piec gwiazdek to za zakonczenie.No i za ta serie, jej format i wydanie.
I did not actually read this book; it was read to me in the original Chinese when I was very young (gives you an idea of my bedtime reading).
But I was too young to remember it; what I really remember is the movie adaptation of the book which I saw when I was maybe 8 or 10 or so, which was great, but to which I am greatly ambivalent, for reasons that, to be honest, are obscure to me.
I think some of it has to do with the fact that I could not understand much of the movie, but I do remember liking certain scenes.
When I went to China for the first time, I came back with a pile of books by authors that were referenced in The Gate of Heavenly Peace: The Chinese and Their Revolution. This was one of those books. I didn't love it. It feels very particular to the time that it was written, but it was quite a powerful book in a way. A tragedy...
This is what moral apathy and mob mentality can do to a person... and to a society. "The True Story of Ah Q" is not to be taken literally. This short story, as all of Lu Xun's works, are an indictment of Chinese society at the turn of the century. The story does not end well for Ah Q, but, on a less obvious note, it does not end well for the town in which Ah Q is from.
