https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/65091.The_Frog_Princess
We've heard it before: A princess kisses a frog, and it turns into a handsome prince.
“The Frog Princess” has all the magical elements of a classic fairy tale and while a happy ending is predictable, E.D. Baker manages to make the trials and tribulations that come before the ending quite enjoyable.
Add in the Shakespearean style of comedy, and you get an entertaining narrative that can be read by adults and children alike.
This is the first novel of “The Tales of the Frog Princess".
They are very clean in every way, easy and fun reads.
I like children's books and I am not even going to invent an excuse for reading this one.
I read it because I wanted to.
Things went slighlty wrong and the frog prince didn't turn into a human prince, instead the princess turn into a frog.And then they have a lot of adventures and epiphanies.I liked how the frog prince was bent on saving and protecting the princess but somehow was always either asleep or not around when the danger struck, and the princess had to take care of herself (Bella, you look and learn).
2.5
Rating:(late review)The Frog Princess is one of those books that I read at the library just because I found it, loved, and then picked up every other book by the author. High recommendation for middle/elementary schoolers who love witty fantasy books! :)

3.8/5this was my favorite series in late elementary school, so when the new editions were put on book outlet i couldn't pass up.
i'm so glad that i genuinely enjoyed this book the second time around, instead of being irritated/bored/embarrassed i ever liked it.
this book is cute and smart and fun, and such a unique and more girl-powery twist on a traditional fairytale.
i'm very glad i read these books in elementary school, though i'm not sure if i want to reread the rest of the series.
(it is still for nine year olds after all, and that can reflect!)
A twist on the classic Frog Prince fairy tale. I had slight issues with the weirdness going on in The Frog Princess. I think the author took the humor a little too far. My Rating: 3 stars
If you’ve seen Disney’s The Princess and the Frog, you know the basic twist — apparently, the film was somewhat based on this book, though my sister disagrees about the whole idea.
(Setting is different, characters different, etc, etc.)It’s fun enough, though because it’s aimed at — well, I’m not good at judging: middle grade, perhaps?
All in all, cute enough, though it’s not something I’ll come back to the way my sister does — wrong point in my life entirely for it to become charmingly nostalgic.Originally posted here.
So when he comes for a visit, she hides out in the swamp and meets a frog that promises he's really a prince.
Emma soon learns that a frog's life, while it has its own rewards, is one fraught with danger.
Along the way she meets new friends and learns about the power of a kiss.I loved how this book took fairy tale conventions and turned them on their heads.
It's a fun read, and Emma is an engaging character.
I also liked learning what it would be like to be a frog.
Would it surprise you if I told you that I read this just because I felt like it?
I love Middle Grade, I love fairy tales, and I can't resist anything that has a princess involved, so this book was something perfect for a quick read.I loved the fact that Princess Emeralda was a "I can do it myself" kind of girl, and that situations allowed her to do just that.
This was a sweet, quick read that was a lot of fun to listen to.
I adore her voice, and this was no exception.To the surprise of no one, I didn't really love the prince.
Alih-alih menghindar dari perjodohan dengan Pangeran Jorge, Putri Emeralda malah berubah menjadi seekor katak!Semula ia hanya ingin berbaik hati mencium seorang ups….
Namun yang terjadi sesudah itu yang membuat Putri Emeralda sangat terkejut.Sang putri merasa pening dan tidak bisa memfokuskan pengliatannya.
Atau bagaimaan kesalnya sang putri karena pangeran selalu merayu untuk mendapakan ciuman lagi, siapa tahu malah berubah menjadi manusia.Bagaimana saya tidak mau tertawa keras, melupakan sopan-santun!
Di salah satu buku, malah katak itu hidup dari tahun 1900 sekian dan baru akibat keisengan seorang gadis, di tahun 2000 ia kembali menjadi manusia.
Listened to this expanded fairy tale in the car on a road trip with the grandkids (girl and boy aged 9 & 11), and it was enjoyed by all. First of a series, 5 1/2 hrs long in audio form.
Maybe I'm a genius of vocabulary or something, but I thought that it was below the level of other books such as Redwall or even Fablehaven.
Nothing against those people who did feel this way, it just strikes me as odd.Perhaps my biggest problem with this book was that it didn't seem dedicated to its own setting.
The main character didn't act like even a castle pet, let alone a princess.
Her first person narrative just sounded like an obnoxious brat from a contemporary setting.
This book, and likely this series, does not compare.
The Frog Princess is the first in a series of eight books!
I have read this at least three times and just finished the fourth read!You know, it was better than all the other times I have read this book!In this story, Princess Emma goes into the swamp by her castle because she loves to explore it!
Instead of turning Eadric back to a prince, Emma becomes a frog!How they finally get back to their original selves is at times perilous, heartfelt, and very funny!I am already reading the next book in the series!
The book by E.D. Baker takes place in an enchanted kingdom.
Emma, the main character, kisses a frog who claims he is a prince, his name was Eadric.
There were many bumps along the way for Emma and Eadric.
For example, Emma kissed Eadric and turned herself into a frog!
They also met many new friends like Li'l Stinker, a bat, and Fang, a snake.
I loved the book.
It makes you fell like you are in the medievil times!
This book is a great story for children.
I give the book a 100% A+!!
Princess Emma believes she is the worst princess and witch in all of Greater Greensward, and when she is told she has to marry a shellfish prince she runs of into a swamp only to find a frog who claims he is a prince and a kiss from her would turn him human again.
But after a kiss from the prince she turns into a frog.
So they go off on an adventure to turn human again!They make Eadric look like a pig in some parts yet in other parts he's sweet as can be.
I recommend this book to girls who are into fantasy and don't mind Frogs.
This would be perfect for a younger reader.
Its a fun take on a traditional fairy tale, and Baker has a fun sense of humor.
I would also recommend it to people who are fans of Ella Enchanted, where the fairy tale is turned on its head in a way that makes the girl more active in the story.I think I hit this one a little late, which is why its three stars for me, but I would definitely give it to a younger reader, or someone who really loves reinvented fairy tales.
This was such a cute read and it brought me back to days where romance was actually readable. Love stories doesn't have to involve the guy leaving you because he fears for you, nor the fact that you are a loser that gets swept off your feet by your handsome, "mysterious" lover. That's cheesy.When everything use to be simple and sweet, I actually enjoy the adventure-love stories, foe example this one.
This book was about Emma, a princess who's told to marry Prince Jorge which which she doesn't want to, so she runs away and kisses a frog who says he's Prince Eadric and Emma turns into a frog too. Both Emma and Eadric go through lots of stuff together and in the end everything goes alright. It made me feel happy that because everything went alright. I learned that u can do lots of stuff if you work together. I would recommend this book to everybody cause it's a fun book.
I adored this series when I was very little -- around 2nd and 3rd grade. ;)
Very good series for all girls! I LOVED it!
It's not one I think my son (aged 6) will enjoy, being, not only about a princess, but about (eurgh!) kissing, getting married, and boy-girl relationships.
Emerelda (Emma) is the princess of the title, who does NOT want to get married as her mother expects, or become a witch as her aunt (a witch herself) wishes.
And she CERTAINLY doesn't want to kiss the frog she finds in the swamp, as he requests.
But when she gives in and tries to turn him back into human form, it goes wrong and Emma becomes a frog herself.
The last Time I read this I must have been 12 or 13...jeez that's a decade ago, I'm so old ^.^ I had bought one of the books in the series and then realized it was number 3 instead of this one, I read it anyway and loved it so I went to the library and toke out the whole series and loved it.
This is definitely one of my favorite retellings of the Frog Prince, its original, cute and has talking animals.
Eadric was just adorable, he would brag only to blush, he made the most of being a frog, and since he was one for a long time it really showed off his mental strength.
I enjoyed reading the tale of Princess Emeralda or better known as Emma.
Not wishing to marry a vain prince Emma decides run away to her favourite place by the swamp.
This toad claims to be the lost prince Eadric.
He tells her that he has been cursed by an old witch and that he needs a princess to kiss him to return back into a frog.
So Emma kisses him and then promptly turns in a frog herself.
Emma and Eadric go on a adventure to find a way to turn them both back into humans.
My ten year old daughter loves the books in this series and suggested that I read them, so I began reading the first one. . . My thoughts for the first 100 pages were mostly that I was getting too old to enjoy this kind of fiction. Then, the story improved and I ended up enjoying it. Emalee has already asked me to read the next one so we "can talk about it." :-)
I read this series at the library a few years back and I LOVED it! The Frog Princess is an amazing book. You fall right in love with the main characters, Emma and Eadric. The book left me wanting more- and there is more! I would defiantly recommend this book- in fact, if you are reading this you probably are considering this book or are my friend- so read it!
I liked the book more than the movie :)
Emma and Eadric now must travel to find the witch who cursed the prince in the first place, in a desperate attempt to get them both back to normal (though this frog thing does have its unexpected perks...).In my research for The Frog Prince for my Disney source material read-through I discovered that Disney's The Princess and the Frog was actually largely based on THIS story, and not just the original fairy tale (which, after reading, I can definitely see), and they even go so far as to credit this book and author in the end titles of the movie.
Emma is no normal princess, and she would much rather spend time in the swamp that's right next to her castle than doting on dresses and hairstyles.
Her mother often tries to primp her and create a perfect princess, so Emma spends far more time with her Aunt Grassina than her mother.
Grassina loves to spend time with Emma, always encouraging Emma to use her magic, though Emma isn't very good, so she doesn't practice very often.Always trying to make her daughter into a "proper princess," she invites Prince Jorge of East Aridia to visit the castle for a day to give Emma some royal company.
Upon entering the swamp, Emma encounters a talking frog who claims to be Prince Eadric of Upper Montevista.
Her aunt is a Green Witch who is quite powerful, but Emma seems to make a mess of any spells she casts.When out hiding from her suitor, Emma walks to the swamp, whilst there she runs into a frog.
This doesn't work out as planned either - instead of turning the Prince back, Emma ends up as a frog.
Together they set out to find a way to break the spell.I've only read one book by E.D Baker before and didn't really like it, but in this one I really liked her writing style and voice and felt myself pulled into the story.
