https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28374007-three-dark-crowns
However, throughout the generations, only one sister can claim the throne, and she must do so by murdering the other two.In this case, Katharine is a poisoner who wields deadly cocktails; Arsinoe is a naturalist - at one with nature and animals - and not very good at it (nobody expects her to win the throne); Mirabella is an elemental and clearly the strongest of the three, her powers by far the most developed.It sounds quite exciting, but it is far too slow and quiet a telling for such a nasty premise.
i had to pick up book 2 IMMEDIATELY.)i do think you need a bit of patience going into this, because the beginning is a bit slow as we build everything up--we're introduced to three different storylines and three main characters (kind of four main characters actually?) and the world is AWESOME but complex, so it took me a while to really get a good grasp on it.
i really enjoyed watching the story unfold, i love how the three storylines built up and started to play against each other.
She has a wide group of characters supporting her to the point where her story almost feels like it's more about her friend Jules at times.
I cared about Arsinoe the least, but her story does get more interesting as it gets tangled in with the rest.Even though one of the potential suitors says that to befriend a queen "feels a little like befriending a cow on its way to slaughter," each sister develops relationships to some extent.
Each sister has what feels like a complete story: a complex world, full set of secondary characters, and their own motivations & problems.
Do you like fantasy?Do you like badass morally-grey women?Do you want to burn the patriarchy?If so, this is the book for you.
2.5 stars  "Three dark sistersAll fair to be seen,Two to devourAnd one to be queen" Three Dark Crowns offends me. It promised me scheming sisters and political intrigue and power plays. Instead I get this:And this:And a whole lot of this:80% of the book is the sisters (Katharine, Mirabella, and Arinsoe) waffling around, training, and getting acquainted with their love interests. What's each island's culture? How did the tradition of Triplets Hunger Games begin? No fucking idea, but look, dreamy
Instead I get this:And this:And a whole lot of this:80% of the book is the sisters (Katharine, Mirabella, and Arinsoe) waffling around, training, and getting acquainted with their love interests.
Other than the sisters, side characters like Jules and Natalia have point-of-view chapters, too.
While I'm glad each sister queen has the chance to tell her side of the story, the feeling is dampened when it becomes a detriment rather than an advantage.(view spoiler)[Joseph flings himself in front of a bear to protect Mirabella after knowing her for two days.
(hide spoiler)]Perhaps it's the way Three Dark Crowns is written, but I couldn't relate to any of the sisters.
I struggled with this start to a new series, but I’m currently reading the sequel and am SERIOUSLY enjoying it, so it was worthwhile for me to push through the first novel!I will always admit when I feel choosing the audio version of a book may have impacted my reading experience.
By the conclusion of the novel, I ended up totally falling in love with this series and consider it a worthwhile read as a whole.Overall, Three Dark Crowns wasn’t my favorite reading experience in the history of literature, but I really enjoyed the story and am already continuing on with the series.
When they reach 16, they are all supposed to face each other off with said magic, and whoever wins gets the throne.
The general vibe is pretty dark and bleak, so be prepared.*Very Minor spoilers below*Anyway, I went into this fully expecting to favor one queen and not like the others- but I was surprised.
Except, she's so incredibly weak and isn't actually showing strength digesting said poisons.
Just wait.AND THEN there's Jules, Arsinoe's best friend and very powerful naturalist who almost feels like a fourth main character.
She has several POVs and she gets very tangled in things and her love story..
3.5*This was incredibly hard for me to get into. I found the first half to be quite boring but I just found the whole concept to be so interesting that I had to stick with it. I'm glad that I did because it did get better, but half of a book is a long time to not really be enjoying it.
The horrible, atrocious and petulant cast of characters who ruined everything.
Yes, a boy can treat you like shit but DO MAKE SURE that you’re the one who apologises.☝️- One was just a doormat.
Yes. Since you’re a girl and (obviously) brainless, and he’s “hot” who treats you like his doll (really.
I have never felt such hate of this magnitude for a male character like I have for Joseph.
And no, I don’t understand how these events could’ve been used as a way to drive this shit of a plot when all it did was make the cast seem like utter trash.
Three dark queensare born in a glen,sweet little tripletswill never be friends.Three dark sistersall fair to be seen,two to devourand one to be Queen. This was SO much darker than I originally expected and it is GOOD. The world-building, the twists, the characters, the premise itself. It's hard not to be pulled deep into the story. Consider me invested! For a first book where clearly the concept had to be set up, as well as the world..I still found there was a lot going on. This just gives me m
It has been a poisoner queen the last two years..Mirabella is an elemental giving her power over the elements such as fire, water, and wind.
They want power on the island and need a queen on their side to seize that power from the Black Council giving importance back to the temple.
There are a variety characters including the families that raised the girls, friends, priestesses, and a couple love interests.
It’s interesting how each sister is raised in a different city by a completely different family working on an entirely different gift.
They're raised separately for reasons we don't know and grow as: poisoner, elementalist, and beast-keeper-person-thing.✓ I really liked Katharine!
(view spoiler)[I totally love the theory that Jules is a hidden queen and Katharine isn't a queen AT ALL and Arsinoe obviously just revealed she's supposed to be the poisoner and who the heck cares about Mirabella.
(hide spoiler)]✓ Also totally think the 3 queens represent Hogwarts houses!
Katharine and her snakes and poisons are totally Slytherin (although her personality is not #disappointing) and Mirabella is Ravenclaw and Arisone is Gryffindor!
“No one really wishes to be a queen.”  Oh my, I loved this. This book seems to be very polarizing on my feed, and from people I love, trust, and have similar reading tastes as, so I was a little apprehensive going in. I read that first chapter with my mouth open the entire time. Instantly drawn in, immersed, and in love. Most of you probably know the synopsis of this book, but it will still bring me immense joy to tell those few who might not know. Basically, this story is set in a world with
This book seems to be very polarizing on my feed, and from people I love, trust, and have similar reading tastes as, so I was a little apprehensive going in.
And I was going to say one of the only downsides while reading was because a friend sort of intentionally spoiled a twist for me, but then I was completely blindsided by another immediately after.
This is a very character driven story, and I loved that so much, but some major plot points just felt like they took too long to get going.
Three dark sistersAll fair to be seen,Two to devourAnd one to be Queen”  well that was misleading and disappointing finally im done typing out this longass rant& im conflicted because IDK if i should give this 2 stars?LOOK I’M SORRY I REALLY WANTED TO LOVE THIS, I REALLY DID (but it was really bad) I am so surprised I didn’t like this book because this kind of books are my kind of books. I am so pissed and honestly this review will just be messy paragraphs of me talking about how disappoint
The ending part was a HUGE improvement but honestly not enough for me to actually like this.OKAY but I’m a positive person so let me just try and talk about the positive side of this bookThe whole political aspect that this book had was probably one of the only interesting plot points in this book but even that didn’t feel well carried out.
I love Arsinoe okay she seemed like a really great character and she had a ton of potential and I don’t understand why the author felt the need to use her chapters to explore Jules and Joseph’s relationship.
4.5 stars.I loved this.(Please let Joseph die in the next book).
but i can't say i'm all that surprised given the description & how much i love ~dark shit™~so imma break it down for you like this: we got 3 black haired hoes (shhh i know, thats misogynistic of me whatever i do my part in dismantling the patriarchy too) and they got some POWERSmore specifically we've gotkat the rat: - overall pretty lame- kind of described as a drowned rat, hence the name- terrible taste in menmirror mirror:- also pretty lame but like she's kind of nice- doesn't like slaughtering people even though it's kind of her job?
I wasn't sure I was going to read this book, but I am now of course :-)I didn't like much of anything about this book but the ending.
AND there is the note of revenge!
REVENGE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Sorry, a momentary lapse of reason.
I'm so glad that I wasn't alone in not really liking the book.
The book has people that love it or hate or in between.
It just wasn't for me.
Katharine I felt sorry for the whole time, BUT ....
Anyhoo, I'm hope in the next book the REVENGE gets to happen.
It took me a moment to get used to the POV it was written in and also, didn't really understand what was happening in the first three chapters, then when I realised that it was written from different perspectives every chapters i GOT IT!
I really did enjoy this novel, the ending was brilliant.
My only issues was it could be slow at times, and not much happened in the middle of the novel.
Apart from that it was a good start to a series, brilliant world builder and gave insight into the characters we were introduced to........Looking forward to the next book,
(This is a stupid question and by now, having been a Goodreads member for seven years, I ought to know better.)The thing is, right, that the first chapter was absolutely mesmerizing.
In fact, Katharine remained the only character I was even mildly interested in for the rest of the book.
Absolutely nothing about Arsinoe, or the limp, anticlimactic backstory of Jules and Joseph, is in any way interesting.
Elemental power is so fucking tired at this point, while I know that any overused trope can be reinvented to be fresh, this book doesn't manage it.
I'm bored just thinking about this book.
(I would physically fight Mirabella and Joseph if I was ever given the chance, and I would like roughly 50% of the characters to line up so I can efficiently slap each of them across the face.) Most of them were super flat--I’d say all of them except Arsinoe, Jules and maybe Pietyr.
(That’s pretty insane because there are roughly 200 characters in this book.)The three queens are not my ideal.
It filled me with hope for more bad bitches, gave me a halfhearted belief that maybe (MAYBE) I’ll actually like a certain character next time around, and made me wanna pick up the next book.
The first half was pretty slow, but THAT ENDING THO!
It did feel slow at first to me, but most fantasy takes a while to warm up, and considering this has to do world building 3 times I thought it was completely appropriate here.
Each sister is presented with a love interest (all hetero, btw) but none were developed enough for me to really see why the characters cared for each other.
I did feel like there was a complete story arc and was satisfied, but if you are expecting a Hunger Games style showdown to be the majority of this book, you may feel let down.If you don't like beautiful but useless world maps, you may get irritated quickly.
I know it is not bad to have a good blurb but is bad when it is misleading.🌟 I have seen many bad ratings of this book so I decided to go into it without reading the reviews and to judge by myself.
There was some unnecessary fast romance that helped move the plot forward but it also could have been better once again.🌟 Summary: This is a book with average characters, plot and writing.
I have been reading way denser books so I didn’t feel it was slow but it may be slower than your expectations.
I quite enjoyed reading it, the plot was pretty good but sometimes I somehow just felt bored with this book and the characters weren't annoying or boring.
I'm just confused over how fast the romance between Mirabella and Joseph happened and Joseph already has a girl he claimed he has loved for his whole life and he literally said that.
So Mirabella saved Jules and the love triangles began.
And the love triangles happened so fast.
Basically, there are three dark sisters who have to try to kill each other after their sixteenth birthday because only one of them can be queen.
She is small and frail and is basically sucking at being a poison witch.
She should be able to bloom the reddest flower and control the deadliest animals but just like her sister, Arsinoe sucks at being a witch.
I feel like this is the main reason why people disliked this book.
(hide spoiler)]Overall, I feel like this is such an under-hyped book.
I reread this book again. yes, I did.and I still love it, yes I do.Buddy read with chandler✨ who (thankfully) liked this book and was a blast to br with 💞
“Only a king-consort is fool enough to love a queen,”I’m not entirely sure if I will read the second book in this series, perhaps, or perhaps I’ll just chuck it with the rest of the fantasy books that left me unsatisfied.
Because we got to see and know everything, it definitely made for some delicious tension and screaming while reading.I don't want to say too much and ruin the reading experience for anyone else, so I'll just say that this is one of the best roller coasters I've ever been on.
As I finally type this up, it's been 4 days since I finished and this is as close to a real review as I think I can get.Do yourself a favor and pick it up as soon as you can.
**Huge thanks to Harper Teen and Edelweiss for providing the arc in exchange for an honest review**
Kendare Blake's my go-to author for vivid descriptions, intimidating plotlines, and shocking surprises. She delivered all three of those in Three Dark Crowns, but the pacing and romance were so off that I couldn't fall in love with the book in the way I wanted to. THINGS THAT MADE ME POOP RAINBOWS 1. The writing was so easy to get into. Kendare Blake has a way of writing novels in a way that feels dark, but is still very casual and easy to read. She has these gorgeous descriptions that aren't bo
Coming up with THREE different main characters in a book is tough, but Three Dark Crowns managed to give each queen their own story, their own personalities, and their own beliefs.
She delivered all three of those in Three Dark Crowns, but the pacing and romance were so off that I couldn't fall in love with the book in the way I wanted to.
She delivered all three of those in Three Dark Crowns, but the pacing and romance were so off that I couldn't fall in love with the book in the way I wanted to.
They bond when they are little, bond a little when they are little, separated to strengthen their individual powers (naturalist, poisoner, and elemental) and then…… then they must kill each other so one can sit on the throne, have triplets, and start the cycle over again.Three Black Witches are born in a glen,sweet little tripletswill never be friends.Three Black Witches, all fair to be seentwo to devourand one to be queen.
It’s a good thing this is fictional.The three main powers:Naturalist: These people have the power over like living animals and plants.
Arisnoe's best friend and the one designated to help her develop her gift, is the most powerful naturalist the island has seen in almost 60 years.
Katherine may have a weak immunity, but she does have an affinity with brewing poisons.All three queen's must prove their strength as the ascension year is upon them and only one can come out alive.This book is full of many different characters and story arcs that are sure to keep you interested.
I hope Katherine poisons him in the next book, that would be a great idea because then Mirabella AND Arisnoe will be mourning him.
