https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28016509-the-girl-before
"Yes, daddy. Yes." No. Please no. I feel like somebody noted the success of books like Gone Girl and the success of Fifty Shades of Grey and thought: wouldn't it be great if we had a book that combined the two? No, actually. No, it wouldn't.The Girl Before failed on so many levels, and I say that as a reluctant fan of these "domestic thrillers". I've enjoyed everything from The Girl on the Train to last year's ridiculous but fast-paced Behind Closed Doors. I expected I'd like this one too, but
I expected I'd like this one too, but all I got was a weird relationship with "rules", another guy called Edward, and transparent twists.The book alternates between the perspectives of Emma (Before) and Jane (After) as they move into the techno-minimalist apartment at One Folgate Street.
Both women soon find themselves caught up in a love affair with Edward, but when Jane discovers that Emma died in the apartment, she can't help investigating further.Jane's digging uncovers some disturbing facts about Emma - she expressed concern over Edward's controlling ways to her psychiatrist, her death may not have been an accident, and strangest of all, she looked eerily like Jane herself.Firstly, I don't know what is wrong with these women.
Why can’t a book be left to stand on it’s own merits?
Forget sane - why would anybody sign up for this?Maybe I’m the crazy one, but there is no way I would ever agree to give up most of my belongings to move in to a minimalistic stone box of a house that comes with over 200 stipulations.
We get to see how their stories mirror each other and it’s a little convoluted at times.
But that’s were the likes kind of ended for me.The entire plot felt like a tangled mess and not one I particularly enjoyed unraveling.
I just thought it sounded like an entertaining read."Please make a list of every possession you consider essential to your life."One Folgate Street in London, is a high-tech minimalist house with so many cool amenities and features that you would figure the rent would be sky-high.
You know, things like that...NOPE...not at all like that.There are over 200 rules that tenants MUST be abide by in order to live in the house.To say that the owner/landlord of One Folgate Street is picky about who lives in the house is an understatement.
It was originally designed by the techno-architect Edward Monkton as his family home but his wife and son died there which means its now available for others to live.
Emma died in the house.A concerned Jane begins to investigate Emma, the girl before to ascertain whether she was murdered, and if so by whom.
An air of menace hangs over the house as danger begins to close in around Jane.
This is a house with tragic beginnings and a strong character that is destined to trouble those who live there, you can just feel this.
3.5 starsReally fast paced and captured my attention from beginning to end, but it tried a little hard to be too many different things. I kept getting whiplash over all the "But this! And this! Now this! Jk this! Look at me; I'm being shocking and twisty!" Unfortunately, this took away from what could have been a 5 star read for me. Still enjoyable and would still recommend to the right reader. Full review to come.
3.5The perfect home to lease.
Rules covering seemingly everything from A – Z, regarding what may be brought into the apartment.
As we checked-in, we were handed a ridiculously large book of rules and regulations.
This book brought back those wacky memories for me.
Although this contract went way above and beyond our rule book!
I still think Emma and Jane should have hightailed it out of there as soon as they poured over the rules!If it sounds too good to be true...well you know...A great premise for a book and engaging writing quickly drew me in.
I was frustrated, and let me explain why.This story follows two women Emma and Jane, who wanted to escape the tragic events of their past, in order to begin a new life in a new apartment.
And may the odds be ever in your favour.Then again, leaving in a super-clever-high-technological-environment was quite original and I wanted to enjoy the story but I just couldn’t especially after some crucial moments and messages of the book.One of the most distasteful moments, especially after the events one of the main characters had to go thorough, was:
I am in the minority with my feelings about The Girl Before--this book has received excellent reviews, but it just didn’t work for me.
The premise is intriguing: What if you had the opportunity to live in the perfect house designed by a famous architect for a low price?
This is the house located on One Folgate Street.
The Girl Before tells the stories of Emma and Jane, two occupants who lived in One Folgate..
Emma died under mysterious circumstances while living in One Folgate Street, and Jane is the current occupant.
Would you move into a house that has pages and pages of rules? Where the questions ask you things that you couldn't live without? Questions about everything person? Also, you can't have kids/pets/make a mess? Don't be so sure, because those rents are expensive. This house, however has the latest and greatest gadgets going for it. Like lights that automatically adjust to you, the water temps remember those perfect settings, and lots of little stuff like an app for your phone that controls the hou
Where the questions ask you things that you couldn't live without?
Like lights that automatically adjust to you, the water temps remember those perfect settings, and lots of little stuff like an app for your phone that controls the house.
Told from two different viewpoints, Emma from before and Jane from now..you see that certain things have a way of following just what has happened before.This was sooooo readable, I wanted to know so badly how the heck old lover/hot landlord was going to end up being the biggest baddie of all time so badly.
And the ending.
The story is told in alternating chapters between Emma, the girl before, and Jane, the current tenant of a very unique flat.
However I am completely curious as to why the author chose to use this device, if anyone knows, fill me in.)I thoroughly enjoyed how the author portrayed One Folgate - the apartment itself takes on a life of its own and becomes a central character in the story.
There are multiple triggers within this book.
If you need to have likable characters to enjoy a book, pass on this one.
One Folgate Street is a state of the art award winning property.
The fact is, whoever becomes this property's tenant must be willing to be completely controlled.Emma needs to find a new place to live after a traumatic break-in.
She loves it on sight but Edward the architect, insists on complete control in order to transform his tenants to suit the space in which they're living, and he certainly manages to do that.Jane also needs a new start after a personal tragedy - she too loves the property but is also drawn to Edward, its creator.
3 starsFor a book that is centered on a minimalist approach to life in a spare, modern home--this story is a bit messy!
You must be personally approved by Monkford himself.
Yes, you heard me right, books are not essential according to Monkford.
(insert crying laughing face) And, while you’re signing this contract so fast, hoping Monkford won’t change his mind about you, watch out!
Although the audio book is very well done by the narrator, the chapters are way too confusing to listen and follow.
I ended up reading the book on Kindle.
At one point I wasn’t even going to finish listening to it as I was so turned off and it had a 50 shades kind of feel to it which is just not my kinda thing.
I am glad I am finished.What I did like was the format of the storyline as it was delivered in alternating short chapters between then and now mirroring the points of view of our two main characters; Emma the previous tenant and Jane the current tenant.
Which I found to be an enjoyable way to listen to this story.All of Brenda’s and my reviews can be found on our sister blog:http://twosisterslostinacoulee.com
My thanks to Ballantine Books and to J.P. Delaney for the opportunity.To control or to be controlled?......now that is the question.The Girl Before has more wicked cogs in the wheel than a jacked-up Monster truck in high gear.
Some days it revs up speed and gains relentless traction.Emma Matthews lives in the "once upon a gruesome time".
Although this "covenant" seems highly imposing and limiting, Jane signs on the dotted line as well.Soon Jane begins to connect occurrences in her present situation to those of Emma in the past.
What actually happened to Emma?The Girl Before will be made into a movie by Ron Howard.
By ‘‘manipulative,’’ I mean you’re more than pushed into liking specific characters and disliking others.
But despite having your thoughts about characters shaped by the author, you’re still manipulated some more as the story progresses.
If you’re familiar with the genre, you know that these types of novels take time to pick up because it’s all about the building part.
The characters also take time to become important in the reader’s eyes; most likely because they seem so normal, but that’s probably done on purpose to give the effect that this kind of story could happen to you or me.
However, that book has permeated the pop culture to the level that even I was able to draw the parallels between his character and Christian Grey.
Not that Jane would have a sledgehammer, since it's probably a violation of the preposterous rules that she agreed to before moving into the house to have a sledgehammer.
Never have I been so unconvinced of spanking in a book.
Honestly, she was one of the most unlikeable female characters in any book ever.
7. The house itself was entirely creepy and no one would ever live there.
Living in that house would be like living in a mausoleum.
"You can make your surroundings as polished and empty as you like. But it doesn't really matter if you're still messed up inside."3.5 // Though it did have it's twists and turns it wasn't as good as Gone Girl or Girl on the Train to me.
2.5 stars. What a let down this book was and its being made into a movie!?! I don't get it. The most intriguing part of this book was the creepy "techy" house!!!
Plus you’re required to keep the same cleaning service on, must open the house to visitors for architecture tours, and must take assessments every month to see how you change throughout your stay at One Folgate Street.Not my cup of tea to live under such a strict lifestyle.
And One Folgate Street is a house that allows for people to live beyond their means (in terms of rent).
For Jane the house feels like it could be a fresh start.
I liked the random application questions that were thrown in the story sporadically.
While this is yet ANOTHER book for ‘fans of ‘Gone Girl’ and ‘The Girl on the Train’, and yes, it does have the requisite ‘Girl’ in the title, this book stands on its own merits and needs no other comparison.Two very different women, both having suffered emotional traumas, move in, at different times, into a very affordable, unique, technologically advanced apartment that stresses a minimalist lifestyle.
The story alternates between the first person perspectives of Emma and Jane as they describe their time living in Edward Monkford’s apartment building.
As the story progresses, we learn the two women bear a striking resemblance to one another, are both attracted to Edward, despite his OCD tendencies, but, Jane discovers that the previous tenant… Emma, died in the apartment, an apparent victim of suicide.
I enjoyed the format of the storyline--short paragraphs--alternating between "then" and "now"/"Emma" and "Jane." It was a clever way to keep the reader focused.
I thought the plot was very creative and, of course, the ending was a total surprise.
Also, after being officially named a "Cover Girl," how about that beautifully intriguing cover?
While reading it, I kept visualizing the sleek, totally automated house and all the characters playing out their roles to the point of hearing the background music and the sound effects.
JP Delaney was very successful in bringing this story to life.I'd definitely recommend "The Girl Before" to all those who love a good suspense novel.
The telling of the tale, as well as the setting of it, were as alive as the characters, and all three worked together to provide something suspenseful, shocking and totally unique!First ReadingI received this in exchange for an honest review from NetGalley.
And all without dwelling on any of the melodrama associated with that genre.The no-nonsense style of writing mirrors the architect of the house and becomes just as much a function of the tale as the characters and the setting.I am so eager to uncover the mysteries concerning this unique and compelling thriller and can't wait until I can get the rest of the book in my hands!
A film version is being brought to the screen by Academy Award–winning director Ron Howard and I am sure this will prove to be one of the hits of 2017.The story focuses on the property 1 Folgate Street,this is no ordinary house, it is state of the art and won the Stirling Prize.
The story focuses on two troubled women who live at 1 Folgate Street, Emma from the past, and Jane in the present.For the first half of the book I was totally hooked and read the novel at every possible opportunity.
I went into this book with a very open mind. It didn't gel with a lot of people and I respect that!This book is as much about a house from its history to its construction to the contract to live in it as it is about the characters. In alternating viewpoints from Emma(then) and Jane(now) it's an unraveling of what mysteries and secrets this house holds. It was a suspenseful read with the loose ends tied up in the end. But as long as the house stands, this will be a never ending story.
I read the first 20% of the book in like half an hour and found it super addicting and intriguing, and then suddenly it took such a weird turn and it totally lost me.
It was still a super quick read, but I'm just mad it didn't turn out to be an amazing book, because the premise was so intriguing.
All that being said though, I never really wanted to put this book down and I was constantly trying to figure out what the twists would be.
A fun read, if not very good in the end.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Look at here it’s another addition to the category of . . . . . And when Ron Howard buys the rights to your novel before it even gets published you don’t even have to pussyfoot around. This one gets compared in the blurb to both Gone Girl and The Girl On The Train. (Two stories which have absolutely nothing in common, but who gives a shit right? Those name drops sell themselves!)Per usual when it comes to these “if you loved __________
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Look at here it’s another addition to the category of .
And when Ron Howard buys the rights to your novel before it even gets published you don’t even have to pussyfoot around.
(A book I’m terrified to read because everyone seems to hate it even more than they do the film.)In fact, things were going along swimmingly until the point where this happened .
Dear Ron Howard, even though the leading ladies in this story are described as Audrey Hepburn-esque brunettes, do me a solid and use the fact that these two women are interchangeable to your advantage .
This was an entertaining, compulsive read, and I loved it.
I read it as quickly as I could because I had to know what was going to happen.This book follows two women, Jane, in the present, and Emma, in the past.
They each rent a house, One Folgate Street, in London.Jane becomes almost obsessed with finding out what happened to Emma, when she lived at the address, and Emma herself is telling her story.
This seems to be a "marmite" book, readers either love it or hate it.
3.5 starsThe setting in The Girl Before may be questionable and wholeheartedly ridiculous, but it created a very interesting backdrop to an equally interesting relationship dynamic between the female lead: Jane and her OCD/controlling landlord, along with the mystery of what happened to the girl before: Emma.
I appreciated J.P. Delaney's attention to detail when it came to developing Jane's and Emma's characters, although it was difficult at times to remember who's perspective I was reading.
Like I said, the reviews are mixed so read a few from both sides and see if this one is right for you.My favorite quote:"You can make your surroundings as polished and empty as you'd like but it doesn't really matter if you're still messed up inside."
3,5*Έξυπνο, καλογραμμένο, page turner
However, this book shows, frankly, what a wonderful success Gone Girl is, and why it's been so hard to repeat (except with The Girl on the Train, which had the luxury of at least being an entirely different novel behind the "Girl" veneer).
This choice, never totally justified by Flynn herself in her far superior novel, is even less convincing here, and in fact feels like complete, straight-up misogyny, leaving "the girl after", Jane's, later rallying cry: what would you do, if you were a woman in my place?
