https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/104734.The_Vagina_Monologues
My vagina is a shell, a round pink tender shell, opening and closing, closing and opening. My vagina is a flower, an eccentric tulip, the center acute and deep, the scent delicate, the petals gentle but sturdy. No it isn't. It isn't a flower, it isn't a tulip, it isn't a shell or a piece of coral or an exotic orchid. It's a tract of epithelial tissue, just like everyone else's.Don't get me wrong, vaginas are lovely – I'm a massive fan – but these monologues represent the sort of facile, pseudo-
My vagina is a flower, an eccentric tulip, the center acute and deep, the scent delicate, the petals gentle but sturdy.
First of all, it's questionable that reducing women to their vaginas can really be helpful in the first place; but since that's the premise of the whole thing, I won't go on about it.
The passage that finally finished her:My vagina amazed me.
It was the morning.(‘Why do Americans have to turn every part of my body into some psycho-sexual epiphany?’ — Hannah.) OK, this book isn't aimed at me.
I didn't want to think about vaginas.
I still don't want to think about vaginas (simply because I've got the gay, you know.) But it is important that we do.Thinking, reading, talking about vaginas in a feminist way, that's what I'm here for.
This tiny book holds the power to not only normalise but to praise and strengthen the way we treat and talk about vaginas, which praises and empowers females as individuals in our society.My only criticism is the overwhelming and tiring amount of letters and listing of stars who support this movement (which only appear in this special V-Day edition).
And I think Ensler depends on that tendency.
Also, Ensler is a self-serving egomaniac.
Think about it- she could fund an endowment for female playwrights and premiere a new feminist play every year, but instead she's set up an organization to promote the performance of this same play every single year all over the country (with strict rules so that no one takes too many liberties with her vision), and apparently the plan is to continue this for all time.
Don't get me wrong, I see why this play is so eye-opening for so many people, and I think everyone should see it once, just to get the ideas out in the open.
Years later, when I was in my mid-twenties I remember sitting in the living room with my best friend and her daughter, who was five.
Until her daughter said, “Is it because my vagina is gross?” That got my attention.
And her mother, my friend, said – without a bit of discomfort, “No. Your vagina is not now and will never be gross.” And I started to silently cry as their conversation continued, and her mother explained that it was perfectly acceptable to explore her body and her vagina but that she shouldn’t do it in the living room.
LOVE. Wish this was longer.
But is it a sincere work that approaches with humor and gravity the notion that especially men and especially women should view the female body outside of the bullshit male-centric, patriarchal perception that many people seem utterly oblivious to their own culpability in helping perpetuate?
And by breaking out of this narrow longview of gender identity, help the reader - the female and, by extension, the male reader - learn to appreciate their own owness that is neither defined by societal expectations nor cultural pressures?
The Vagina Monologues is another welcome bit of social upheaval in the never-ending, variegated discussion of gender identity.
I don't understand a lot of the reviews on here.
She purposefully chose the more hideous word to make people uncomfortable (and eventually--hopefully--comfortable with the subject matter).
The low goodreads reviews make me think those people didn't actually read the play.
You have a problem with women becoming comfortable with their sexuality and finding ways to overcome/prevent violence?
Shouldn't we keep going until all violence against women ends?
Are people on here aware of the purpose of monologues?
Until then, I think everyone should read this (and think about what they're saying before they review).
"I did not see my vagina as my primary resource, a place of sustenance, humor and creativity."You know, I don't see it that way, either.
I thought the source of all that was my brain.I must not have been abused enough as a girl, because I always feel like vagina-centric art projects like this reduce me to a piece of anatomy just as much as does the alleged male fantasy of big boobs and miles of leg.Which is not to say that there weren't/aren't some seriously screwed-up ideas about female reproductive anatomy out there, just that I think it's possible to go too far in the other direction.
Two arms, two legs, one vagina.And sorry, but isn't statutory rape still statutory rape, regardless of whether the rapist is male or female?
There's a lot to critique about this - but I really don't feel like getting into it. I will say this, though: Eve Ensler doesn't know what a vagina is. If you're unclear: a vagina is "the passage leading from the uterus to the vulva in certain female mammals". Everyone in this play says "vagina" when they really usually mean "vulva". I'm not being oddly specific, they are completely different parts of the anatomy. COME ON. Vulva is a prettier word than vagina anyway. I liked the reclaiming cunt speech. That was about it.

I don't think any other title would have been as fitting as this one for the content of the book.This book basically deals with topics that women shy away from talking about to even their close one's - to their close girlfriends or even their mothers.
It is considered something that is not openly spoken about and if done is heavily frowned about by society.Some women face guilt for something that is natural....
Reading this book made me feel the pain that these other women went through and I realized that women even though facing similar kind of problems in life are isolated in what they are dealing with.
When I was in eighth grade health class, the teacher handed out diagrams of male and female genitalia with lines pointing to the different parts and told us to memorize the names of the parts for a test at the end of the week.
But the girls who achieved the highest scores on the female diagram had a nearly equal success in identifying all the different parts on the male diagram as well.
Reading the birth piece in this book gives me further insight by putting into words the sheer power of my own experience with giving birth and how close it comes to capturing the symbiotic relationship that can exist between woman and vagina.
It might also not be easy for you if you can't read the word 'vagina' without getting uncomfortable, or if you don't like the word 'cunt', or if you wish that women wouldn't talk about 'down there' in public.It's about that discomfort, and it's about shining a light on something that we don't talk about, that we are often taught to be ashamed of.
And it feels like this book does a lot of that -- distilling women down until the only important part of them is physical, sexual.
A bestseller from a genre you don’t normally read, the genre being non-fiction.We did parts of The Vagina Monologues as, well, for lack of a better word, plays for various events in college; this was my introduction to this...play.
What makes The Vagina Monologues special is that it isn't fiction.
The anecdotes, the incidents, the stories - they're human too - warm, passionate, humorous, and of course, meaningful.
I would want my daughters to read it; I think all women should read it.
In fact, I think men should read it too, 'twould change their perception of 
First there is the extremely long introduction by the author which was partly about how the book was written and partly history and what has happened since the Vagina Monologues was created.
Then there is the preface by the author about Vaginas and finally, sigh, yes finally, on page 38, the book begins.
You involved in funding it or something?)So the Vagina Monologues itself gets 5 stars, the prefaces get 3 stars (because of Gloria Steinem) and the afterword gets 1 star and that's generous.
Eve Ensler wrote this play after her interactions with women and opening up a rather taboo subject- vaginas.
However, Eve Ensler perseveres and this book is now an international phenomenon, with roots in starting important conversation and activism, such as V-day, a day acknowledging and raising awareness of women suffering from abuse and violence.This book is funny and heart breaking, shocking and beautiful.
She notes her fascination with the vagina as a taboo subject and the struggles she has faced getting the book published and the play produced.
From this play/book women are able to reclaim the word Vagina.
I have big issues with this play. It essentializes what it means to be a woman, equating femininity with a having a vagina! Not to mention endorsing racial and cultural stereotypes.
I have such conflicting feelings about this book. On the one hand, I appreciate it for saying out loud some things that haven't been really accepted by society.On the other hand, Eve Ensler is a self-promoting, self-satisfied twit.
Me gusta cómo trata la idea de que hombres y mujeres deberían ver el cuerpo femenino fuera de la percepción machista. No lo considero el mejor manifiesto feminista, pero sí que muestra cómo hacer que las mujeres se sientan cómodas con su sexualidad y encuentren formas de superar y prevenir la violencia de género.
"the vagina monologues" began ambitiously, as the author, eve ensler, interviewed hundreds of women from all around the globe about their vaginas-- something most of us don't spend much time talking about!-- but i don't think even ensler could ever have predicted the impact it would have on the world.
"the vagina monologues" turned into v-day, one of the most important worldwide events, consistently raising awareness and money to work to end violence against women.
so, the largest part of the v-day campaign every year are the hundreds of productions of "the vagina monologues" on college campuses throughout the world.
i could hardly breathe, i was so choked up from the actual performance and my stage fright.
I’m coming late to this party, I have to admit. And for my, the defining feminist changes my outlook and gripped book is Atwood’s Handmaid’s Tale. Still, you have to be a complete idiot to not see the power in this play (or performance piece). Considering that women’s sexuality is in many ways still owned/controlled by men, this book is still timely. Don’t believe that first part. What is the term for an older man who dates a younger woman? No, I’m not thinking Sugar Daddy. But what would you ca
What is the term for an older man who dates a younger woman?
Okay, now what is the term for an older woman (Shakira, say) who dates an insignificantly younger man (say Pique)?
A woman who embraces her sexuality is a slut; a man is a stud.
I’m not saying all men are pigs and all women aren’t.
I’m just saying that even in a country where the average woman doesn’t have to worry about female cutting, forced marriage, war rape, and ignorance, the monologues in the book still resonant.
I don’t buy the reclaim the word argument.
So I don’t like it.
There is something very powerful and liberating in this book, something that will make you cry.
In the primitive societies, women had immense power.
In a society where a bolt of lightning was considered magic, the ability to give birth (still magic today) was regarded with astonishment, and subsequently, women had something unique and magical that gave them power.
I always thought that patriarchy was a reaction to this power.
An envy of the power of giving life.
And with patriarchy we lose so much, we lose the power of being united and complete.
It's now the time to be complete again.
It's time to acknowledge our roots.
*3.5 stars*Originally I was going to count this for my 52 books challenge as "a book you're embarrassed to read in public". As this book taught me, though, I shouldn't be embarrassed of my own vagina.This one was a super fast read, I finished it in one sitting, but if you don't want to read the full book at least please check out these two monologues:They Beat the Girl out of my Boy…Or so They Tried;Say It (written for the "Confort Women", I can't find the link for this one but I'm sure it's on YouTube or similar places).
At times hilarious, brutal, disconcerting, and poignant - The Vagina Monologues is the result of interviews with over 200 women.
If the idea of a woman's sexuality makes you uncomfortable, then you definitely need to challenge yourself and come to terms with the vagina.
Here in the United States, a woman is raped every two minutes.
See how you can get involved in "V-Day" and help create more respect, safety, and love for the women in your community.If you've got a vagina, talk about it, love it, and never be ashamed of it.
And if you don't have one, just remember - RESPECT.
i think for her target audience (middle america's sorority girls) they're revolutionary. for me personally, i felt like they essentialized women to their genitalia and were problematic in that sense. i've also had to sit through the play 5+ times, so perhaps i'm just burnt out on cunt-love
اگر میتونین ذهنتون رو از چارچوبهای معمول ذهنی رها کنید این کتاب رو حتما بخونین .
Và hãy yên tâm là không có độc (mono) một cái Âm Đạo lảm nhảm cả buổi đâu mà có rất nhiều ÂĐ xuất hiện nhờ lối viết đa thanh (nhiều người cùng phát ngôn trong một chủ đề hoặc một đoạn nhưng không phân tách rõ ra ai với ai) :| Kể cũng lạ lùng là nếu như phim "Người đàn bà cuồng dâm" thì người ta bày ra hẳn một bộ sưu tập Dương vật, trong cuốn sách này lại có một tuyển tập các ý kiến, quan điểm, cảm nhận, cảm nghĩ về Âm vật == Mình thấy có gì đó không có được bình đẳng ở đây, chả nhẽ xu hướng gần đây của phụ nữ là coi cái chỗ kín của mình là một vưu vật còn coi đàn ông cùng với cái sinh thực khí anh ta chỉ là đồ chơi để thỏa mãn nhu cầu!?
I wonder how many women align their identity that way.One thing I learned while reading this is how many women have never looked at/seen their vagina—either because it’s, understandably, difficult to do, or something they’re not interested in doing.
These are ideas I’ve run across before, but hearing them expressed in such a direct way is different.With this in mind, I understand why Ensler chooses to include slightly more silly-sounding monologues, like the lists of clothing women’s vaginas might wear.
(I’m looking at you, United States, and your crazy hang-ups about old white dudes controlling women’s bodies.)I can say unequivocally that we need more books like The Vagina Monologues.
I did not read the book, but a sample that was available online.While I found the concept revolutionary and exciting - women talking about what happens "down there" - after two or three monologues I sort of lost interest. Maybe it's different to see it performed. But I do think it should be performed all around the world, with dialogues in local languages added on as required, based on regional experiences. It would be very intriguing.But with the current puritanical mood in India, I think any attempt to produce it will land the organisers in the jug!
I am unable to give this book (and audiobook) a five star rating because, like a number of my fellow Goodreaders, I feel disappointed that Ensler failed to acknowledge, accept and provide a space for gender fluidity.
On a personal level, and in my professional capacity, I am looking forward to this theatre trip but mindful of my earlier comments concerning the ways in which this audiobook version triggered an emotional response from me, I feel so very pleased that I decided to obtain a copy of The Vagina Monologues on compact disc first.
