https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/66720.Migraine
He considers each case and patient as an individual human being with all the uniqueness that implies.In addition, I was fascinated to read historical perspectives on migraine and realize that some of the insights from hundreds, if not thousands, of years ago are relevant and spot-on today.As someone who grew up with a neurologist father and watched my mother suffer terrible migraines only to develop them myself at age 12, I obviously had a selfish, personal interest in this book.
The excerpts from Hildegard's writings provided, once again, great validation and a beautiful new way in which to envision my migraine auras/visions.In the end, an excellent book for somone with migraines, but more importantly, for those who treat people with migraines to read.
As a chronic migraine sufferer, I found Sack's work to be a huge disappointment. His information was outdated and biased towards the traditional attitude that migraines are stress induced. Migraines are so much more complicated than originally thought, a complex chemical and electrical reaction that can be set in motion by extremely diverse causes from brain tumors to multiple sclerosis to spinal injury, not to mention hormonal changes, trigger exposure, and altitude sickness, just to name a few. I would have expected a more enlightened, better researched book from such a luminary. Don't bother.
The book synopsis pretty much says it all.
I read this years ago.
I remember it well because I could relate to a lot of what Sacks was saying.
Still, it was somewhat frustrating and disappointing not getting a definite medical description or definition for migraine, and realising that there is no cure.
And all migraineurs have different triggers and different physical symptoms.
I have since found a real gem a book on the subject, The Keeler Migraine Method: A Groundbreaking, Individualized Treatment Program from the RenownedHeadache Clinic which explains migraine as a physical disability.
It is a disfunction of sensory processing.
One could take Wittgenstein's approach that a concept (like "migraine") can have a family-resemblance unity, that depends only on a variety of connections, none of which is necessary or common.
It would seem more profitable to separate out the variety of phenomena that go under the label of migraine, rather than persevering in a search for what holds it all together.
This search for what holds it all together leads Sacks to emphasize the psychological over the physical aspects, since it's pretty clear there isn't a physical unity.
Visual migraines are terrifying experiences that physicians (and eye doctors) do not typically treat.
This book was recommended by bloggers reporting on their own experiences, so I bought the book.
The author gives an in-depth scientific treatment of migraines in general and visual migraines (auras) in particular.
Biological explanations are given and potential medications are discussed, as well as other strategies for dealing with auras.
Some myths are dispelled.The biological explanations of aura are complex and no known cure exists.
Various medications work for different people in different ways, and so are not generally recommended.
I read this book when I was in college, suffering from multiple classical migraines every week. It taught me to treat my migraines by hitting them hard with aspirin and coffee, just as I started to see the visual disturbance. I still get migraines from time to time, but never get a headache.Interestingly, Excedrin is an implementation of the Sacks treatment, because it contains aspirin, caffeine, and acetaminophen.
Her ne kadar tıbbi eğitim almamış okuyucuların da anlayacağı bir dille yazılmaya çalışılmışsa da ben okurken epey yoruldum. Fakat yine de migrene ve doğasına dair birçok fikir kazandırıyor (yani öyle her başı ağrıyan migren değilmiş).
I just briefly started reading this book on the subway, until I feared the swaying motion, screeching, piercing lights, incessant babble, and ear-splitting singing of the blind beggar might bring on a migraine.We can't blame it on florescent lighting, traffic jams, or the office because it’s been around at least since Hippocrates.If you experience migraines, either occasionally or constantly, this book can be an eye-opener to better understanding and coping with this mysterious complex event.Hint: having all your teeth (or other organs) removed and/or blood-letting probably won’t be affective.
But some strong coffee and/or a shrink might be helpful!And go ahead and draw those blinking geometric lights...
Anyone who has the misfortune to suffer from migraines NEEDS to read this book! It explains so much. Sadly ... not really how to actually be CURED of them, but a fascinating read anyway, and it's always good to know you're not alone. Especially if you suffer from Cyclical Vomiting Syndrome, like I do, and it explains the links with sickness extremely well. Oliver Sacks is always a pleasure to read anyway, and has a lovely, readable style, despite dealing with complicated chemical explanations etc.
The information in it is truly fascinating but it isn't the most fun read of all time.
Musicophilia was interesting but had some fun.
He goes over more case histories than I can count and discusses migraines as history essentially.
He discusses the neurological makeup of a migraine and an aura in as much information as he knew at the time of the writing of the book.
Sacks often ruminates when he writes and goes from topic to topic.
This book is to be read for his thoughts, not for factual, ABC information on migraines.
I very much liked the information on migraine auras.
This one is medical.However, I read it all the way through and I found it very interesting, even though there were quite a few medical terms that went right over my head.
I think I was able to read the whole book simply because I do have migraines, so it all seemed personal, even the bits I didn't find entertaining and didn't really understand.What I most like about Sacks is the fact that he clearly finds everything he writes about so intensely interesting.
He must have been thinking about migraine for decades.I don't think reading this book changed my understanding of what migraine is and how it affects people.
Migraine is a helpful book for people who suffer from migraines.
In another of his books, Hallucinations, Dr. Sacks details Alice in Wonderland syndrome -which are symptoms I had frequently as a child - but no one understood what I was talking about.
I also have experienced optical migraines - auras - recentlyThis book, Migraine, is a bot technical in places - for those of us who are not medical doctors or neurologists - but I found that I could still follow what was being said.
I wish I had read it years ago when I was experiencing frequent headaches
I wish that I had read this book 7-8 years ago when I first started experiencing migraines.
I wish that the numerous doctors and specialists I had seen had also read this book.
Most interesting, of course was the section on migraine auras - particularly the idea that the cat artist Louis Wain may have painted some of his "psychedelic cats" during a migraine aura instead of a schizophrenic delusion.
Check out Louis Wain on wikipedia to see examples...
At one time may have been cutting edge.
I did enjoy the historical aspects of it, although Mr. Sacks is not a gifted writer so you slog and swamp through his writing.
The information is outdated and you will not find a cure or a treatment plan.
Anyone who says Mr. Sacks is empathic to the migraine sufferer, has never truly had a migraine.
Read it by all means, but than get some real information from a headache clinic or a neurologist & get the real help you need.
I'm probably not qualified to judge this book.
I bought it, hoping that it would help me to understand my migraines.
And it did help me out a lot.
But it is, at times, fairly technical and maybe directed more at medical professionals rather than general readers.
It's also probably out of date, having been last updated in the 90s, I think.
A lot of the material holds up well, but I wonder how much has changed since then.
Still a good read though.
Well-written, as one would expect from Sacks.
And it definitely gave me some insight into the nature of migraines.
I love all of Oliver Sacks books, but for this one, I'd say you would have to be a migraine sufferer to enjoy it. After reading this book, I really felt special and that I had a fascinating disease. Only Oliver Sacks can make you feel this way.
I don't suffer from migraines, so reading a book about them should have held no interest for me. And yet...the late great Dr. Sacks has managed to enlightening, inform, and entertain me again!
I didn't finish this before it had to go back because I just couldn't get into it.I get the feeling that maybe I've read it before?Just did not enjoy this as much as the other Oliver Sacks books.
I have these. They suck but knowing is half the battle right?
I love Oliver Sacks’ work in general, but picked this up after I experienced “forced reminiscence” as is described in his book about migraines.
This book is a fascinating read and explains the biology of migraines as well as other aspects of the condition.
A technical and good read if you have interest in this subject OR if you just happen to be a big Oliver Sacks fan.

Of course much of the book is outdated, but it is a must read for anyone with migraine disease. Love Sacks’ writing.
The only people I have ever spoken to about my migraines are general practitioners, and the only treatment ever prescribed has been medication-only -- medication which, after about three months becomes useless as I have built up a tolerance.
So I wanted to know what an award-winning neurologist had to say about the pain I endure almost daily for the past 21 years.The book was originally published in 1970, but this edition is an overhaul from the 90s.
I actually had to skip two whole chapters on the Psychological and Physiological Origins of Migraine because they were too dense with clinical jargon.
Interesting read, though very academic. Unlike more recent books by Sacks that are easier to read
Ergotropism vs. Trophotropism. Evolutionary advantage as a group.
Sacks goes through descriptions of the condition - which are fascinating, I never knew how many peculiar symptoms there are - and it helped explain some of my own experiences.
I was particularly interested in the psychological approaches and some of the case studies.
Personally I think there is something I need to learn from the condition, and this book has helped me think through it.
However I think this holistic, emotional and psychological approach is helpful, and I wish there were more voices for it today.
I read this to get some medical insight on my migraine condition.
The book can get very dry, and I found myself starting to skim, which I rarely do when I read.
This book is also very dated.
This is a worthwhile read for someone who has migraines and wants to learn more about it, as long as you understand that much of it is dated.
Other than that, it is not a great book, and you would be much happier reading Sacks' other works.
A friend or family of someone who suffers from migrainesWith that said, the book is dense and can be slow going for those of us not verse in medical literature and terminology.
The book is extremely well organized and Oliver Sacks leads through the history of migraines and migraineurs, with ample use of case histories and citations of other studies to build the readers understanding so that by the end, you understand that a migraine may or may not be a 'convenient' escape for the sufferer, and that the migraineur is not a hypochondriac: they truly are suffering.
If, as I do, you know someone who suffers from this ailment, I would highly recommend reading this book and then pass it along to your ailing family member or friend.
The only reason I am not giving this book more stars was that I found some of the chapters repetitive and difficult to read or stay focused on.
But basically even if I had known those words, it seemed certain chapters were not aimed at me, but rather those in the medical profession (which is clearly reasonable of a medical book to do!)Those chapters I could read easily (most of them) were fascinating and shed a lot of light onto the subject of migraines, of which I find I suffer from the occasional Classical Migraine variety.
I bought this book on a whim a couple of Fridays ago because I was in a bookstore and it had been on my list of things to read for a long time.
But the illustrations are really great -- I've always wanted to be able to show people what my vision looks like when a migraine is coming on and there is a painting in the book that could have been drawn by me (if I were artistically inclined).
The wide variety of symptoms that come together to create a migraine is very interesting.
Headache is optional -- a migraine is really a whole constellation of other symptoms.
