https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/985519.Creative_Mythology
I was seriously quivering with anticipation to read this book -- I zipped through Occidental Mythology to get to this one, but quickly discovered that I should've taken my time on Occidental, instead, which was, in my opinion, much better, and probably the best in the series.
As important as Tristan and Isolde and Parzival and Joyce and Mann are, reading about the same old ish for 200 pages at a time gets, um, how to put this lightly...EXCEEDINGLY TEDIOUS.
The thing that always amazes me about Campbell is how he can draw these far-reaching, totally crazy comparisons between what seem to be completely different subjects, and MAKE IT WORK.
In graduate school, when I asked my beloved mentor, Freudian/Lacanian David Wagenknecht about Carl Jung, his response was, "I dunno: a little too Joseph Campbell for me." There is no better or smarter human on earth than David and so I didn't read either Jung (who I now worship) or Campbell (who I now really, really love) for many years.
I think the wait was just fine for me (sorry Dave) but I know I will be reading at least Campbell's Masks of God for the rest of my life (and perhaps also his Skeleton's Key to Finnegans Wake at least twice more).
I love these four books.
Indeed, one might better ask, what canon, that some significant sum of people holds or has held as most holy, has Campbell not thoroughly apprised himself of before gifting the world his declarations?For those who allow their orientation to drift to the east, it becomes more and more apparent that in order to understand, what one needs more than intellect is courage.“Creative Mythology, in Shakespeare’s sense, of the mirror ‘to show virtue her own feature, scorn her own image, and the very age and body of the time of his form and pressure,’ springs not, like theology, from the dicta of authority, but from the insights, sentiments, thought, and vision of an adequate individual, loyal to his own experience of value.
The second volume, Oriental Mythology, primarily examined Egypt, India and China--and certainly made me want to read more--and reread Confucius and Lao Tzu in light of what I'd learned.
In Occidental Mythology, Campbell examined the religious/mythological heritage of the West, both of the Greco-Roman classical world and the Levant as expressed in the scripture of Zoroasterism, Judaism, Christianity and Islam.Creative Mythology examines something quite different.
With the previous volumes there was no doubt in my mind about the centrality and importance of the texts and artifacts Campbell was examining and he was at his fascinating best making connections between them.
Now that I'm experiencing Joseph Campbell as a careful adult reader, he comes off as a well-read charlatan, though probably well-meaning, throwing tons of random infodumps at his audience and then saying "see? It's all connected!" Also, no one in the late 1960s should have been talking seriously about an ancient, underlying Aryan culture. Racist much, Mr. Campbell?
After exploring ancient, Eastern, and Western mythology and religion up until the approximate time of the Dark Ages, Joseph Campbell's final volume of his Masks of God series deals with the "modern" world.
Now what?Creative Mythology explores what happens as cultures begin to intermingle, how local symbols are repurposed for new reasons in new places.
He moves into the modern world by dissecting some of the works of Thomas Mann and James Joyce (Finnegan's Wake, Ulysses, and Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man).
Do I feel much better versed in world religion and mythology?
Because these writers were primarily used as models exclusively to the occidental, I was deprived of Egyptian, moorish ; african mythology through out the book and of course I was aware that he primarily focused on the occidental, but this is not part of the title of the book, therefore I was led to conclude it was just written as an obsession and fascination with arthurian, occidental and whiteness in creativity and history; claiming the realm of modern writers and genius.
If you are going to read this book, the only chapter worth reading is the last chapter, which there's no escape from Egyptian mythology and god compared to Indian mythology as well as the writers and other occidental mythologies.
This book demands multiple re-readings of the text.
Campbell does what he does best - deconstruct mythology - and some of his ideas regarding creation and art are quite striking and fresh indeed.While traditional mythologies are discussed here, (such as Le Morte d'Arthur) Campbell also likes to draw on distinctive and post-modern authors like Joyce and Mann when discussing novel mythological structures or narratives.
This may be good or bad, depending on whether or not one likes these authors.
Ultimately, though, this book is meant to help one realize the varieties and depths of mythological experiences.
And this book succeeds brilliantly in this.
Just started re-reading this one.
I got about halfway through last time and found so much good stuff in it last time that I thought I'd see what I pick up this time through.It's interesting that it starts with the time of the 'dark ages' since what I'm working on now, though set in modern day, has a kind of allegory of the idea of the dark ages.I really would like to learn more about Joseph Campbell.
I know some basics of his ideas, but he has written a lot.
I'll probably also be watching the 'Mythos' series he did, on Netflix.
All the major ways has been destroyed. We are in a desert and a dark forest now. And each of us should go alone...Liked very much though I think in some parts Joseph has taken too long way to tell his story
analysis wrapped in mysteries tied with contradictions made out of the tinder and spark of campfire stories, brick kilns, and steel foundries. Materials, colors, designs, executed, shared, found, sifted, chosen, revealed. Shelved.
I did not read this. I really want to like Joseph Campbell but I just can not get into it. This was so wordy. I found myself wishing he would get to the point.
The change in history from classical times to the Renaissance: nude paintings to represent the character of "man" the species, to portraits showing the character of the individual person.
The mythological inspiration of our time is the following of a trackless path to genius.No longer do we receive guidance on the Great Road.
Since the time of the troubadours, who began to sing odes to individuals rather than to an ideal God who would damn them to hell, we must make our own way, creating our own face for God. No longer can we be told the answer.
Throw out the norms of the State and become your own individual person.
It's to give a rating for this book as I have not finished it yet.
I'm only 150 pages or so into as of now.Alright I finally finished the book.
Yeah, it may sound like a bit of exasperation there and at some points it was.
This volume was a bit more challenging to read I felt and did not flow as well as the first three volumes.
I felt Campbell did a fantastic job reaching his point as "man as the author of his own destiney." He drew a lot from Nietzsche, Joyce, Mann, Dante, Goethe, and the Arthurian legends in this volume.
Because I always do things bass-ackwards I read Vol. 4 "...Creative Mythology" first.
Coming from a Fine-Arts and creative writing background this was perfect because the author highlights the common mythological threads throughout literature, poetry, visual arts, religion et.
Joseph Campbell is the only man that I have ever come across that knows everything about all mythology.
If you have ANY interest in why we as human beings create the stories that we do and generally try to relate the experiences that we have to one another then I would recomend trying to read any of the "Masks Of God..." series.
I loved the scholarship of this book...I learned that there was a christian sect that would eat the aborted fetuses of thier women, also, diana's priesthood and its bloody rights of passage, and many other things that have been believed by differant people at different times about god...joseph cambell a student of carl jungs wrote in four volumes a magnificient work...with implications on any creative persons ideas of myth and its role in life... deep book... mike seely and the acid tong
All the Joseph Campbell books scratch a really deep itch to understand your favorite stories in the grand context of the history of humanity. I haven't ventured past The Power of Myth, but I'm especially excited to challenge my preconceptions with some of the non western myths he discusses.
The last in the series. As this was written nearly 40 years ago, many of the ending spots for the series feel unfinished....as it would since so many cultural trends have gone on, changed, AND reached back to the past. Reading all 4 volumes can be a revelation.....
Like I'd say anything about my main man, Joseph Campbell? Always compelling, Always interesting, and what a wonderful storyteller. A man whose grace, kindness,and infinite intelligence, always shines through in his writing.
This is the book that contains Joe's 'Annotated Parzival,' as I call it, and a very sharp look at our modern tendency toward older myths.Even as I write this, our nation toils on, waging war and ravaging the planet. But, I digress. . . --From A Reader's Journal, by d r melbie.
Would like to get to this before reading Ulysses, since I've heard Campbell's take on Joyce totally transforms the way you see the work.
Campbell hits the nail on the head!
This is how it is done . pursuit of your happiness.
Not an easy read but well worth it. As always I walked away seeing things just a bit diffferently.
Of the 'Mythology' quartet, best.
this is the completion of a 30 year reading project, 4 volumes, thousands of pages.
Mankind explained. The Manifestation.
One of the most important books every written because it brings the art of Europe and places it into context with the worlds religions.
ok
And like every great teacher, I'm left with a reading list ... Joyce, Mann, Dante.
