https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/958649.Honor_Bound
They end up making love and he ends up getting recaptured to serve out the rest of his sentence.When Lucas gets out to look up Aislinn to thank her for not telling the authorities that he kidnapped her, it turns out that she has his baby.
This book has some great sexual chemistry, because of the fire that burns between Lucas and Aislinn.
Although the whole kidnapping part is not as real-life, the second half of the book is, because these two very different people who made a baby together have to learn to live together and get past their differences to form a family.
3.5 stars.A 2002 release so not really one of her "earlier" ones. It wasn't bad. Your man was a bit of a dick.  He prayed for death. Because nothing would ever be this good.  "You've got a chip on your shoulder." An enjoyable read. Not too taxing on the brain for a Sunday afternoon! You could do worse.
The hero was a jerk and I don't know why the heroine fell for him or withstood his stupid behaviour.
Here is a synopsis of the story:Lucas Greywolf was sent to prison for 3 years for staging a Native American rally that got violent and ended with police officers seriously injured.
She doesn't give in right away, not until her parents show up and try to get her to give Lucas her son because they don't want her to be an unwed mother.
The only thing in the positive for him was that he loved his son right away.
Lucas was a typical 80's hero, a hard man who treated the heroine coldly because he didn't want to love her.
Overall rating: 4.75 "Anglo versus Indian" stars!Triggers:Cheating: (view spoiler)[ no (hide spoiler)]Love triangle: (view spoiler)[ no (hide spoiler)]Sex with om/ow: (view spoiler)[ no (hide spoiler)]Intimate pasts: (view spoiler)[ Lucas (hero): Hasn't been with a woman since before he was wrongfully sentenced to prison almost 3 years ago. He only alluded to having never spent the night with a woman before and that he used condoms, so I imagine he had casual sex from time to time. He really did
Overall rating: 4.75 "Anglo versus Indian" stars!Triggers:Cheating: (view spoiler)[ no  (hide spoiler)]Love triangle: (view spoiler)[ no  (hide spoiler)]Sex with om/ow: (view spoiler)[ no  (hide spoiler)]Intimate pasts: (view spoiler)[ Lucas (hero): Hasn't been with a woman since before he was wrongfully sentenced to prison almost 3 years ago.
He has so much hatred to "Anglo's" like the heroine because of the wrongs that were done to him throughout his life that he can't believe SHE is the one that he can't stop thinking about and wants and then grows to love.
(hide spoiler)]My review:I believe this is my first Contemporary Romance by Sandra Brown and she did not disappoint.
Usually the woman is also struggling with something.*Enter* not-so-perfect prince charming that is going to save the day.This book is not like that though.In Honour Bound an innocent woman is held 'hostage' in her own home by an escaped criminal.
GO TO THE POLICE OFFICER.Please don't cover for the criminal by flirting with the officer to distract him or neck your kidnapper.The chances of you having your happily ever after with the kidnapper is minimal,the chance of you ending up in a shallow grave is much more likely.
Dia keluar untuk menemui kakeknya yang sedang sekarat, dan menerobos masuk ke kondominium White dan menemukan Aislin yang terlindung dan menculiknya dalam pelariannya dari para penguasa, membawa Aislinn ke reservasi Navajo bersamanya.
Saat mereka tiba di reservasi Navajo, barulah ia tahu kenapa Lucas sampai melarikan diri dari penjara.
Aislinn berasal dari keluarga berduit dan punya hak istimewa, sedangkan Lucas kehilangan hak tsb saat dia kabur dari penjara (dia adalah seorang pengacara hak sipil yang terkenal).
Dia berasal dari dunia yang sangat lama dan menginginkan mereka tinggal di reservasi Navajo, meskipun standar hidup mereka benar-benar buruk.
I read these kinds of books for escapism, pure and simple.
While the writing itself is generally decent and normally fairly well written by this author, I expect the women to be a little dumb and gullible.
But this book blows it all out of the water.
Sure being attracted to the escaped felon who kidnapped you is a bit difficult to swallow but again given this genre, I can almost accept it.
Books like this are probably why women think they can change bad men, but stories like this don't happen in real life!
This was the first 'kidnapped by Indians' book that I had ever read, although it's a contemp. I love this book and have reread it many times over the years.
This was the first romance novel I ever read, back when I entered puberty and was still mostly innocent, and it will probably always remain one of my favorites. The characters are interesting, and I really like the dynamics between them. This book has many unexpected twists that I won't spoil for you!
A modern twist on the captive / abductor, the love story is intense and real I LOVED this book and wish the author still wrote beautiful romances !!
Great book! Couldn't put it down. It was an easy read and a real page turner.
Even if you can accept this premise, Greywolf continues to be a massive knob throughout the book by hating on Aislynn for being white (apparently completely blind to the hypocrisy of that), going on and on about being Indian in general, nearly raping Aislynn and then following the birth of a child he threatens to take it away from her for no sane reason.
He also has some horrendous thoughts on his so-called conjugal rights after Aislynn (the wet blanket) agrees to marry him (instead of going to the police) so she can keep her baby.There is nothing believable or convincing about this story and I completely failed to get on board with the 'romance.'
My first Sandra Brown and I LOVED IT!
Aislinn is kidnapped by Lucas, an Indian man who ran away from jail.
Big, dark and dangerous, Lucas took her breath away.
He's rough and scared Aislinn to death, but she could see that underneath his hardness, Lucas's sweet and tenderhearted.
Lucas's seems so scary yet being with him somehow felt safe.
I found that Sandra Brown's style of writing is easy to catch up with and very descriptive.
I practically felt like I was Aislinn.
;) Even though I feel like I need more, because it seems to me that Lucas's apologize aren't enough, I still like this book.
At first I had very mixed feelings about this book, but I am happy to say I liked it very much at the end.
This was not a fluffy romance novel by any means, and dealt with serious issues.
The main theme of this book was coming to terms with who and what you are and embracing love, even if it is not what or who you think it should be.
This book was very emotional and has left me emotionally spent, but I don't regret reading a page.I would recommend this book to serious romance lovers who like a touch of heartbreak with their books.
Lucas Greywolf had to come to terms with his ability to no show his emotions which he learned from his past. Aislinn was taught to do only what was right. The way their lives intertwine keep me wanting more.
This is one of the best book with a love story that would make you cry.
sexy ,hot ... keeps ya rereading & never wanna stop.now I know where alot of the recent writers get inspiration from..great Read. Sandra Brown's came hard..loved it what a beast of read!
First-ever Romance Novel
This is an early book (1986) and doesn’t have the complexity of plot that later books have. The characters are well developed and it’s clear that Brown honed that skill early in her career. Every author has a timeline for skill development. I enjoyed the story.
This was a good book I couldn't put it down.
Honor Bound is a sweet love story about two people who were meant to be together.
It's a wonderful romance written by one of the best in the genre and the always happy ending is definitely worth reaching.
(Although the beginning of this story was reminiscent of the beginning of Lethal - but completely different tales).Lucas Greywolf is honor bound to his American Indian roots even though he is half Anglo.
Unknowing to them their love story begins.
Before Lucas can open up and love anyone he must get over his bitterness and anger.
Plus, it is excellently narrated by Renee Raudman who has narrated many romance novels well.
This was one of the first Sandra Brown novels I read and was dissatisfied, not with the story but the ending.
Lucas Greywold a fugitive on the run kidnaps Aislinn Andrews when she catches him raiding her refrigerator.
Chapter two of his life now begins with Aislinn and Tony, their son.
In the last 15 pages of the novel, Tony is gravely ill, Lucas is Exonerated of all charges, and he has a grand opening of his law office.
Maybe the publisher had a page limit or Ms. Brown wasn't ready for a full-length novel but I did like what there was if it.
I give this 4 1/2 stars. Sandra Brown definitely has a knack for romance!!! Whew!
Aislinn Andrews walks into her home to find escaped convict Lucas Greywolf raiding her refrigerator.
At first Aislinn is afraid of him, thinking he will kill her.
But as she gets to know her captor, she finds out why he has escaped prison and learns that there is more to this man than the hard unyielding mask he wears.This older Sandra Brown title was a quick read but seemed very dated.
I just wanted to say "Get over it".
But the story was fast paced and interesting and I didn't want to put it down.
Índio + sequestro = s2Obrigada pelo o maravilhoso presente Gaby! ♥ ♥ ♥Mais um livrinho da Sandra Brown mega favorito!Amei esse livro, a história incrível, os personagens maravilhosos e dinâmicos, a lição da importância da nossa família, as reviravoltas, os momentos engraçados, os momentos angustiantes, as emoções à flor da pele, o romance, as cenas intensas e as surpresas que a autora trouxe são FODAS!Pra quem gosta de histórias surpreendentes e cativantes, leia pra já! ♥Não vou contar mais nada, só leia! ♥Se recomendo?! Óbviooooo!!!Nota: 5 ♡♡♡♡♡ FAVORITAÇO!
Have you ever read a book and afterward wondered exactly why you wasted your time? I put this book in that class. The basic story was just barely okay (the old take me captive and I'll fall in love with you just doesn't fly in my opinion) and then overload a book with sex scenes, and you have a real loser of a novel. There are only so many heaving breast, flaring nostrils and throbbing manhoods that any one person should have to endure. I suggest the book remain unopened on the shelf of a bookstore.
This is another of those books that I love and hate at the same time. (I frequently feel this way when reading a romance.) This is by no means one of those “fluffy” romance novels, but deals with the more serious issues, where both main characters have to come to terms with who and what they are and have to learn how to embrace that. In the process they learn that love isn’t always where you expected to find it.
Enjoyable book, even when I was ready to kick Lucas' teeth down his throat! Did have to remember that this book was written in the late 70s or early 80s, as well as the fact that Lucas had a very good reason for being bitter and scathing. The beginning romance part didn't seem very believable, but then this is fantasy, right? Would read it again in a few months or years, if I was looking for a quick Sandra Brown fix.
Narrated by Renee Raudman.Took a chance on this 2012 production of a 1986 Category romance and loved it. It's an earlier version of Lethal and Smoke Screen where the hero kidnaps his heroine for Entirely Justifiable Perfectly Good Reasons. A lot of raw emotional conflict here and Renee Raudman nailed it.
