https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/676737.Grendel
it isn't just a retelling, it isn't an apology or explanation - it does smooth out the rough warrior edges of beowulf (the work, not the character) and gives great powers of articulation to grendel with his almost genteel existential worldview, but there are subterranean caverns of philosophy tucked away in here.
and, yes, of course there are the zodiac elements, and the nihilism of the dragon and so many other things happening in this tiny little book.
If I could ADOPT that big, lug of a monster, I would be signing the papers right now because Grendel really, really needs a friend something awful. That lonely, melancholy maneater gave my soul a migraine and his final "haunting" words spent me like loose change from the sofa. I can't tell you (though I'm still gonna try) how much I loved this book. It is definitely being added to my list of ALL TIME FAVORITES. I have rarely fallen so completely into a narrative as I did from the very first wor
The story is told in non-linear fashion and uses a series of flashbacks to show the reader Grendel’s progression from an unthinking brute through his evolution as a philosophizing “reluctant” nihilist and finally to his embracing the role as “the monster” as a means of defining himself in the world around him and ending with his fateful encounter with Beowulf.
(NOTE: In order to fully appreciate Grendel, you should be familiar with the story of Beowulf as Gardner assumes the reader’s familiarity with the original epic.) Gardner’s writing is so vivid and colorful and Grendel’s worldview and “voice” are so unique, that it's hard to convey the impact of the experience other than to say, it a one of a kind.
I thought that this story would be an opportunity for the reader to get to know him.Unfortunately, we spend most of the time in Grendel's mind, circling endlessly around the ideas of time, brutality, nature and the meaninglessness of existence.I wanted to know more about Grendel's mother, but there was very little about her.John Gardner wrote her as some kind of void-filled slug monster: "Behind my back, at the world's end, my pale slightly glowing fat mother sleeps on, old, sick at heart, in our dingy underground room.
I re-read it (well, the first 40% of it) in preparation for reading Grendel, and being familiar not only with the plot and the characters, but with the way people spoke and thought back then, was tremendously valuable in helping to understand and appreciate this book.
But I still think that knowing more about various philosophical ways of thought would have been even more helpful.One cool thing was that each of the twelve chapters of this book takes as its theme the signs of the zodiac.
You say, "okay, tubers are basically ground-plants, like yams and such, and maybe I only understand 'duff' as Homer Simpson's favorite beer, but the only place tubers can stir is in the dirt they live in, so he must be saying that he can feel the roots moving in the ground above him." The third time, you've done all the heavy lifting, so you can sit back and admire how pretty the sentence is, and pat yourself on the back for being such an enlightened reader.But let me tell you, doing that for an entire novel wore me right out.And maybe that's because I'm too long out of college, with Dostoevsky and the less-punctuated parts of Faulkner's oeuvre now six years in the rearview mirror.
During a routine walk from the kitchen to the main room, he stopped mid-stride and suddenly realized that no actual speech had escaped his mouth in what was, sadly, many years.
Bellows, wails, shrieks, unhinged cackles, hoots, feral pitch-shifts, agonized AHHs and sickly, tattered OOOHs. Lunging and stumbling around the cavernous main room, he indiscriminately hurled the products of his rumbling diaphram and vocal chords at objects, at space between objects, at the thoughts piling up inside himself, sometimes feeling as if he might knock them over or obliterate them with the force of his emotions-becoming-sounds.
He felt possessed by the sound.
Part of that may be because it's only a meager 174 pages - probably technically a novella - but I think even in 174 pages Gardner could have engaged the reader more.While I was able to scrape away a few enjoyable bits from this book out of sheer force of will and years of experience reading novels that take themselves too seriously (and my love of Beowulf helped, too), I definitely feel that this is the type of book that makes students hate English classes.
Every once in a while a book comes along that is so beautifully written it shames me to think I should ever consider putting verse to paper. This is one such book. -m
We know Grendel’s ending, but what of his beginning? Who cares, life is meaningless. Grendel follows the nihilistic ramblings of the self-proclaimed monster, and it turns out he’s a sad boy with an attitude. The existential philosophies are compelling in the context of the novel, but I’ve seen humans far more vile and far less intelligent than Grendel. It would be interesting to explore his mind further. I want either more philosophy or more story from Grendel. I’m left with the feeling that something is missing. But maybe that’s the nihilism speaking.
It tells the story of Beowulf, but from the perspective of the monster, Grendel.
Grendel, whose only companion is his taciturn mother, is a lonely creature, and each chapter is an excerpt from his solitary musings as he attempts to make sense of the world and his place in it.
The author himself was killed in a motorbike crash, which I found influenced my reading of the book.
Was he a loner, attempting to engage with an unwelcoming world by living dangerously?
I found the book also challenges the assumptions we have about our world view being right.
An existential crisis told from the monster's point of view. Grendel tells of everything before Beowulf, a prequel. This was far more abstract and philosophical than I expected incorporating Grendel's arc from fumbling child learning his environment to elder bored with existence.  "I understood the world was nothing: a mechanical chaos of casual, brute enmity on which we stupidly impose our hopes and fears.""Then the wars began, and the war songs, and the weapon making. If the songs were true, a
Grendel tells of everything before Beowulf, a prequel.
This was far more abstract and philosophical than I expected incorporating Grendel's arc from fumbling child learning his environment to elder bored with existence.
If the songs were true, as I suppose at least one or two of them were, there had always been wars, and what I'd seen was merely a period of mutual exhaustion.""But they were doomed, I knew, and I was glad.
Such is the end of time, the brief, hot fuse of events and ideas set off, accidentally, and snuffed out, accidentally, by man.
Mere ripple in Time's stream."
If one can’t handle the Nowell Codex, the film does a pretty good raconteur job.Grendel (1971), of course, precedes both the film and Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance (1974) which subsequently utilises similar techniques: interweaving highly theoretical discourse with quotidian and utilitarian undertakings.Effectively, Gardner takes up Beowulf a millennium post-partum and manages, without altering the ‘historical accuracy’ of the poem at all, to distil it through a 20 c kaleidoscope of notionality.
This is ultimately an intelligent, philosophical exploration of the dichotomy of life, poignant and hyperbolic in its own way.
And actually I didn't really like it at first, for exactly the reason that it seemed a bit gimmicky.
More to the point, Gardner's grasp of what Grendel means in the world of Beowulf is excellent.
Men worship gods and invent abstract moral codes; Grendel, a born nihilist, sees that the world is meaningless.If that sounds a bit cerebral, it's really not.
He doesn't want to die exactly; but if a hero defeats him, then maybe it would mean humans have a point, after all, with their talk of heroism and justice?
After reading "Beowulf" in my Brit Lit class, I was turned onto "Grendel", by my English teacher. I truly love this book, and the way that John Gardner plays with the character Grendel, and the humor within the writing. After all Grendel was just a misunderstood pagan monster. What's a monster to do? : )
"Grendel" is a retelling of the epic poem "Beowulf" from the point of view of the monster, Grendel.
He hears the Shaper, a blind harpist-poet, tell beautiful mythical tales about ancient warriors, which inspire Hrothgar, although the stories have little factual basis.When he reaches adulthood, Grendel asks philosophical questions of the Dragon, who has a fatalistic view of life.
The Dragon gives Grendel a magical gift--weapons could no longer penetrate Grendel's skin.The Shaper tells the tale of the two sons of Adam and Eve, Cain and Abel.
Boewulf and a group of Geats eventually arrive by boat to help the Scyldings destroy the monster.The story was written in beautiful poetic prose.
Grendel can't settle on a single idea or voice.
Whiny, self-involved and "tediously poetic," this retelling of the epic Beowulf from the monster's point of view is full of existentialist pity-parties (the dragon gives a tiresome lecture on the brevity of the universe) and anachronistic outbursts (Grendel suddenly gives the empty sky an upraised middle finger).
Eventually the rapidly shifting topics and themes blurs together into an unholy literary drone.
Blah blah blah nihilism blah blah blah mythology blah blah blah monsters can have mommy issues too.
I've been teaching Beowulf almost every year since Heaney came out with his translation, and every year I've thought of reading Grendel, but for some reason I hadn't until this year.The problem with reading a book that you've been hearing about for twenty years is that you think you already know what it's going to say.
And maybe one of the reasons I'd never got around to reading Grendel is that I was afraid it would turn out to be one of those by now trite demonstrations that all monsters are really just the misunderstood victims of the majority's prejudice.
I'm not sure of what to think of this book.
The style shifts a lot, and clearly Gardner put a lot of work and thought both to its narrative construction and to the themes he was covering in the book.
That being said, I was more aware of how the book was written rather than why.
The words and the construction of the narrative got very much in the way; I was too aware of them.
It seemed very skeletal, not a whole lot of flesh or life to it.
There is a lot of philosophy, and its introduction seems forced.
The result is an intense and quirky philosophical treatise on beauty, evil, culture, love, and humanity’s search for meaning (or meaninglessness) that raises several uncomfortable questions — why do I feel compassion and empathy for a bloodthirsty monster?
What gives life meaning?
The book doesn’t quite answer all the bewildering questions it raises.
Instead, it asks the readers to look within their own souls and find their own answers.
I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys experimental narrative structures, alternative perspectives on well-known stories, and/or heavy philosophical conundrums.
'Grendel' is a brilliant retelling of the Old English poem 'Beowulf' from the perspective of the monster.
Immediately, Gardner's first person voice enticed me into the story, and his lyrical prose, poetic sensibility, and articulate language kept me reading, as did his breath-taking existential meditations on the nature of good and evil, the power of art and story-telling, our constructions of religion and heroism, and the meaning of life.
This short book has jumped onto my list of favourites, and it has inspired me to read Gardner's 'The Art of Fiction,' which I have often heard quoted.
I definitely want to learn more about writing from someone who creates such wonderful prose.
This book was one of great self discovery. John Gardner takes us through the “highs” and lows of a beings life that has been forsaken by society. Taking philosophical ideas as a guideline, Grendel struggles with the thought of existence and meaning in his life. With two different kinds of influences pulling at him from both directions, Grendel must find the side where he belongs the most. I think the book could relate to people’s own struggles with meaning and that even though the book was written in the 70’s, it is still highly prominent today.
John Gardner’s Grendel takes readers on a journey for meaning.
Grendel, the protagonist, uses the plot of the novel to find a purpose in a world that has left him alone and isolated.
However, Grendel is not alone, Gardner teaches readers that everyone has trouble finding meaning in a sometimes-cruel world.
Gardner leaves readers with the same question, what is our purpose in life?
In all, Grendel is a compelling novel that leaves readers with different, often conflicting thoughts, regarding certain events throughout the story.
However, Gardner often uses hidden meanings throughout the story, which could make it a confusing read.
Tackling the way we define "evil", Grendel's unconventional, antiheroic journey has readers shamelessly rooting for a blood-thirsty monster.
Gardner crafts a careful tale of death and redemption, but takes on such a swirl of conflicting ideals, nihilism, existentialism, solipsism, even the human condition, that it becomes hard to keep up.
Poor Grendel grapples with the consequences of isolation throughout the story, ultimately leading to his "accidental fall to grace".
This ending was a problem for me at first, I couldn't help but seeing it as a bitter end, as I initially failed to see the redemption behind the fall.
Grendel makes a very interesting character study for he is quite obviously a monster not at peace with himself.
These bouts of depression seem to trace their beginnings to a fateful run in with human beings and the increased encroachment of man into the forest where the beast makes its home.
There is but Grendel, a deeply flawed and close to human monster.
I loved this character !Coming to the writing style, it takes some time to get used to.
We must not forget that this story happens in a time when man was learning to organize into a society and live an organized life !
John Gardner's Grendel dives head first into the world of existentialism and attempts to answer the age old question of what is the meaning of life.
Readers are taken on a journey to seek this answer through the epitome of an outcast, the monstrous Grendel, who wrestles with grasping his own identity in the world.
While the premise of Grendel's search for an identity is an excellent topic of discussion, I felt that at times the way in which Grendel contradicts himself over and over can get quite exhausting.
Something I had forgotten in the 20 or so years since last I'd read Grendel, was that it is not a necessarily a book about the solipsism of "the monster".
No, Grendel is largely unconcerned with whether/not the Scyldings exist; his struggle is not with existence [1] but rather one with alienation and isolation.
[3] Grendel is not evil so much as he is an introspective nihilist.---[1] Making it "not really" an existential novel?[2] Who further isolates him by granting him an apparent albeit apparently tenuous invulnerability.[3] It is hard to count the conversations with Unferth and "the stranger" (Beowulf, the Geat); those challenges are more like lop-sided dueling soliloquies.===original mini-review, per original reading (approx.
Gardner just perfectly nails down this caustic, inhumanly sophisticated perspective that's weaving through a lonely, pagan world where human conquest is just starting to take shape.But then he wrecks that setup by injecting a laundry list of 'experimental' flourishes and techniques that he half-asses so badly, they just bog everything down and make the whole book lose focus.
Grendel is humanity, man), and sly attempts at anachronism that probably made people role their eyes even back in 1971 when this first came out.It's a shame too, because there is so much interesting potential in the set-up of this, but instead we end up with some early postmodernist weak-sauce.
Just go read Beowulf instead, it's far weirder and cooler than this is.
The novel opened as a wittily irreverent light read.
"174 pages of a cynical monster," I thought.
Grendel's strength lies not in the complexity of its prose (although the two UNCLOSED PARENTHETICAL ASIDES still infuriate me to no end), but rather in its capacity to force readers to reflect on themselves, their roles in society, and the dangerous allure of nihilism.
In conclusion: if you're not a fan of ambiguous endings and the existential crises that arise when staring into the void, this is not the book for you.
However, I got a lot out of Grendel; "so may you all".
What a twisted idea for a narrator - giving voice to Grendel, who is fully aware of how others see him.
"Grendel" is a compelling study in our own understanding of humanity, but...
The book is witty and so brilliantly written, it was tugging at my heart, and only when I finished reading I realized what was bothering me.
But even then I had so much compassion for Grendel.
Because a lot of my compassion stems from seeing this cover, and the ink graphics in the book, and they give Grendel a very clear, tormented personhood.
Get ready for the best existential crisis of your life as you dig deep into your own morals and those of society.John Gardner's "Grendel" is a masterpiece which represents what it feels to be conflicted, lonely, guilty and relevant through Grendel's liminal lifestyle.
Fascinated, but rejected by the humans the struggles faced by Grendel are more relevant to us than one could ever imagine.
Grendel battles through his own dragon and multiple philosophical ideas and you will too in search for the true meaning of life and the never ending argument of good v.
"Poor Grendel has had an accident" and so may we all.
