https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/899392.The_Legacy_of_Heorot
I can't quite go to 5 stars with it (though I may reconsider over time) but I can highly recommend this one.This is a space exploration, space colonization novel of people from Earth meeting challenges on an alien world.
There was also a part of this book that annoyed me (view spoiler)[ I was annoyed at the Col. for the "carrying a torch" for Sylvia thing and I could never like Sylvia for her inability to deal with it.
(hide spoiler)] Still the book is very readable an excellent novel one I can highly recommend.This is an update as I forgot to mention the "nods" to earlier science fiction and "imaginative" fiction writers from Robert Heinlein to H.P. Lovecraft.
Messing Up the Eco-System26 January 2017 - Sydney Sometimes I wonder whether the more authors a book has the worse it becomes. Actually, come to think of it, I struggle to actually think of any work of literature that has more than one author – it seems as if for a book to enter into the annals of greatness the book has to be written by a single author. To me this isn't actually all that surprising because artists tend to work alone. In fact, when one considers music the same seems to apply, con
However, they don't actually believe that it was a monster, but some guy who is sulking over the fact that nobody believes that there is anything hostile on the island – that doesn't sound as if the hibernation pods had busted, that just sounds like your typical bunch of human beings who want to live with their heads in the sand – climate change anybody?
In fact, it turns out that they are like frogs – as babies they start off as fish, but when they mature they turn into these monsters – so, the mature creatures basically eat the babies, which keeps the population down.
Larry niven and Jerry Pournelle are great hard science fiction writers and With Steven Barnes they have great combat and martial arts scenes. grreat stuff "it makes Aliens look like a Disney nature film." The Washington Times said.
Of course it was going to be good, right?No.spoiler alert followsSadly, it was a bug hunt.
The characters were simplistic, unsympathetic, and, frankly, sexist in many places.
The main character is a geek's Mary Sue -- an exhaustingly perfect warrior with a Cassandra complex who has all the answers, is the only one who can save Mankind, the perfectly lonesome brooding outsider surrounded by idiot-geniuses.
The ending was so lame I laughed.
Then I read it again, assuming I'd read it wrong, and I hadn't and I laughed again.
after two days of fighting, the surviving monsters learn to not eat humans.
I enjoyed this book far more than I expected, and found myself devouring it late at night at a frightful pace.
I've not had great success with books by two authors in the past (they always seem to be plagued by inconsistent characters and general sloppiness), so I assumed three authors would be even worse.
It ended up being a more sophisticated and nuanced book than I anticipated.
The characters are all ridiculously flawed people and quite unlikeable, but by the end I found myself surprisingly attached in spite of it.
This is essential SciFi reading. Combine Beowulf with star travel, strong, good looking men & women, hard science... Also the best example of the law of unintended consequences in action. Not to be missed.
It actually takes place when the children born in this book get old enough to begin claiming the planet for themselves.
If you enjoy this book, definitely get your hands on Beowulf's Children.
There is also another book, Destiny's Road, which also takes place in the same universe, mentioning events from the first two, but which is not really a sequel or continuation of their storyline (at least the way I understand it).There is a lot of violence in the book, but really no sexual material at all.
This is one of the best books I have ever read - whether by Niven or anyone else.The story sucked me in straight away, and it kept a pretty good pace throughout, with only a few sluggish points in the second act, and one development that to me, was clearly a plot device and not how an actual person would have acted - and, I guess, an irritating over-use of self comparison to the olde English tale of Beowulf...It was similar in feel to some of Heinlein's books - especially TUNNEL IN THE SKY - but it did not have feeling of being derivative - despite borrowing some nomenclature...
So it probly doesnt hurt that I happen to like most of Heinlein's work, but this stands on its own.The plot is not too unusual for a sci-fi novel.
Take an island on one planet 10 LY from Earth, Avalon, a human colony of 200, some strange alien life forms and you got a movie scenery. At least, this was my impression, that this book was written specifically for this purpose. I don't know if there is a movie based on it, but there are several alike, no doubt.Still, it's that kind of story that keeps you hooked until the end, although it is predictable. An easy and enjoyable reading, one that does not put your neurons to work :D
However for me it was the appealing mix of acton and science that I enjoyed.
Too often the militaristic all action type end up in conflict with science where one wants to study while the other was to put down the threat, here you see them working together to solve the problem (although there is still their fair share of antagonism).
For me the Grendel is the perfect predator however flawed it is - and to me reminds me a lot of the other (more famous) alien predators of science fiction, perfectly adapted to the environment it lives in, exploiting its advantage once humans blunder in to its domain.And the conclusion although satisfying sets up for a sequel - which I had to wait some years before being able to finally see what happened next.
Excellent colony novel by a trio of masters.
Niven and Pornelle are well known for their worldbuilding in The Mote in God's Eye. The duo is joined by Steven Barnes, a relative unknown at the time, who provides the action and - numerous - sex scenes.Its a wicked little romp with many false peaks - every time you think the threat is over, you look at the progress on your kindle and what do you know, youve only read thirty percent of the novel.
This excellent pace is a notable feature - i found it hard to put down.
It didn't seem too scary at the time, maybe because I was in a group, but on the way home, we did see a girl walking on the sidewalk in a nightgown in no shoes, face hidden by her hair.
When I got home, my stepdad did some crude imitation from the movie and further terrified me, putting a good night's sleep pretty far out of the question.
And after that I remember spending the hours between 1 and dawn reading this book, which, I have to say, was pretty good at the time.
Niven's Mote ... unlike most of his other books, captured my interest, earned a re-read.The Mote in God's EyeThe Legacy of Heorot is the only other Niven I finished. The story was not captivating, but as it unfolded, I became increasingly curious. What's coming next? How will the authors end this? In an attempted recent re-read, I didn't get far.
Still, all in all, this was an enjoyable novel and worth reading.If you've read this far and don't want a spoiler, stop here.The concept of the samlon (the local fish) turning into grendels was terribly predictable.
If I had written this novel I would have gone for an ending that the authors had totally set up but didn't use.
After the final battle where the grendel horde is beaten back, a more fitting ending would be no more samlon as the catfish introduced into the ecosystem by the colonists ate all the eggs.
Firstly, there was the complete lack of character development: Cadmann was the personification of the brooding male hero (and also the embodiment of fragile masculinity).
Carlos, thanks to the casual racism of the book, is the stereotypical 'Latin lover' from Argentina - he is promiscuous, but lovable, and says shit like "Madre de Dios" in times of action.
All the other characters are interchangeable, and all seem to act like teenagers.
The character development reminded me of that in Andy Weir's The Martian - SHIT (damn, I hated that book).Besides characters, there was just bad writing all round - too many adverbs (why does everything have to be done 'deeply'), and "orgy of murder" was used TWICE on one page.
This is one of the best hard-sf colonization stories, and perhaps the best of the Niven-Pournelle/Barnes collaborations. It's a well-plotted and fast-paced story with excellent characterization and a fascinating setting. The eco-system is particularly complex and compelling. Recommended for fans of Steele's Coyote series or the Alien movies.
Listened to on CD. Read by Tom Wiener who is FANTASTIC! Great story inspired by Beowolf. TRULY scary thriller. Can't wait to read the sequels!
When the native fauna and the aliens - that is, humans who had come to colonize the new planet - actually collided, things went downhill fast.The book's most glaring flaw is also the most fatal: the characters are thoroughly unsympathetic.
Nothing inherently wrong with that, but it comes across as very weird, because the characters still display western culture's inhibition towards sex - while still thinking about it, wanting it and having it, often for no reason plotwise at all.The book was really good at some points.
In some ways this book was very imaginative and in some ways just another Heinlen-like hero story.The protagonist, Cadmann Whelan, is in charge of security in a situation where there seems to be little need for it.
Some of the colonists come out of the freeze with their intelligence negatively influenced.
A little bit too much of a Space Opera for me.The pacing of the plot is pretty good especially as the story reaches its climax.
There is a tremendous amount of violence in the book and a little bit of non-explicit sex.
A nostalgic read for me, my teenage reading was interspersed by a few from these authors, they were always big schlocky sci fi reads in my eyes trying to write the ultimate in each sub genre.
I mean, LOVED THEM.This is the alien predator one, where earth's first colony lands on the new planet and has to confront nasties on their own territory in a fight for survival.The law of unintended consequences is writ large on this one.
The dialogue is stilted, "relationships" would only appeal to the teenage mind, the women are shockingly written.
This book was sensational.
Beowulf meets Aliens.
Characters and story were wonderful - which I expect from any book that Larry Niven is involved with.
More especially, the team of Niven/Pournelle/Barnes (Creators of Dream Park).
It was a retelling of Beowulf in the setting of an interstellar colony.
The science was brilliant and handled in such a way as not to overwhelm the reader or bore them to death - incorporated into the story and revealed in baby steps to allow the reader a full understanding of the alien biology as the story unfolded - much like a well-crafted mystery.
I enjoyed it immensely and would recommend it to anyone who appreciates well thought out Sci/Fi and solid story structure.
I liked this and its sequel a lot, Niven and Pournelle produce readable, engaging and interesting sci-fi without weirding me out.
They're ultimately not that earth shattering but good comfort reading.
These books follow the story of a group of humans sent off to start a new life on a remote planet.
There's no return, and not even any communication from Earth after the first few years.
In the first book they conquer their initial problems and in the second spread out onto more of the planet.
I would actually like more sequels, the stories here could go on forever.
Reread!Last stop on my Niven revisited tour. This was the last Niven novel I read decades ago. Hoping this 3rd book is the charm in terms of holding up to expectations.So the verdict? In today's eyes parts of this might be considered slightly sexist but not to a degree that it weakens the story. In fact, this story has held up very well over the years. I may check out the sequel after I read a few goodreads reviews on it.
These are the ROCK STARS of modern SF! This is one (of a bushel-ful) of their finest work. A tremendous retelling of Beowulf vs. Grendel with great science behind the plot. Set in a far off world, a human settlement is besieged by a faster-than-the-eye beast - which will be your heart rate, too, as this captivating story unfolds. Brilliant! Classic literature meets contemporary masters - could it get any better? I say NO!
This book will be reviewed in an upcoming episode of Books, Beer and Bullshit Podcast. After the show has been released, a full written review will be available here. Until then enjoy other great book reviews and fun at http://booksbeerbullshit.podbean.com or find us on Stitcher Smart Radio 'BooksBeerBullshit'
Bad and sexist? A little sexism is amusing but this is rubbish.
I think this is one of the best Sci-Fi books i have ever read!
(hide spoiler)] Took me a moment to realize what they were discussing, there.I never before realized how much the attack on the 'camp' in this story is an homage to the attack in Tunnel in the Sky. Some seriously nice homaging going on, there!----------------------This is a crazy read!
At the same time, these authors know their stuff and would have worked out the minimum viable population count before putting it into the book.
Some of it was hard to read, no doubt about that (view spoiler)[such as when the Grendel kills the human baby girl - that is still hard to read (hide spoiler)], but even the hardness adds to the overall richness of the book [in some respects].
These people are colonists, who after 100 years in a cryogenic sleep, are about to establish Earth's first colony on another planet.
They don't see any threats to their well-being on the island of Avalon and everything seems incredibly easy, that is, until the grendels make their appearance.
The authors have done an excellent job in creating creatures that are cunning, fast, brutal and almost impossible to kill.
The pacing of the story is excellent.
The grendels attack the colony and it's a desperate struggle for the colonists survival.
The book ends with characters looking to leave the island and explore the mainland, creating plenty of material for a sequel.
wasn’t for me.Reading a book by a new-to-you author is rather like going on a first date.
You might be excited about the potential, maybe skeptical, possibly even just bored, but it’s hard to say ahead of time if you’re really going to click or not.This author was recommended by a friend and the book sounded interesting.
Nothing ruins a book for me like the dog dying.
And not only does the dog die, we’re reading from the dog’s perspective when the death happens, and it is a horrible death.
But I kept going.The book was moving along and getting more interesting...
