https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/279407.Born_Again
But a proud man who is walking through life looking down on other people cannot see something, something immeasurably superior, above himself.The words cut Colson to the heart.
I desperately wanted to know what this man was writing about.”The next week, Colson read Mere Christianity cover to cover, making notes on a yellow legal pad on which he had made two columns: There is a God/There isn’t a God; Jesus Christ is God/He isn’t God.
Born Again is the story of a broken man transformed by the love and power of Jesus Christ—who continues to transform me every passing day.”I give thanks for the life and influence of Chuck Colson and look forward to seeing him at the Resurrection.
There is a purpose for my being here, perhaps a mission the Lord has called me to."This is harrowing story of a man come from the Watergate Scandal to prison, in the midst of it all, finding Jesus and realizing His importance in his life.
Because through the unlikely friendships found, the miraculous healing of inmates, and the deep love impressed into this book is certainly one that serves to give thanks to God. And what a fitting time!
This book is another good reminder that God works in all sorts of ways, everywhere.
A story of conviction and conversion: Born Again
But only recently have I bothered to go back and read this book which tells how it all got started.
Even through the fear and despair of those times, the power of God became even more evident to Chuck Colson while in prison.This is an amazing account of how a life submitted to Jesus Christ can reconcile enemies, create strong bonds of friendship, and heal terrible wounds in the hearts of both the rich and powerful and the poor and helpless.
If this book has an impact on you, then you will also want to read its sequel, "Life Sentence".
There were a few things that I disagreed with, but overall it was absolutely amazing and moving and inspiring.
Colson also met a variety of people in his life, and his relationships grew stronger with them as time progressed, although I do wish he would specify who was who, as I started to become overwhelmed (in my edition, there's even a huge list of all names in the book and page references for them all.) But besides that, this is a near flawless account.
God working very subtle changes in this man's life is the key point which is expanded upon as his days in prison progress.
The story of this man's change is perhaps one of the most relatable examples.)
A great book for anyone seeking either spiritual inspiration or political insight into the Nixon administration. Definitely the most even-handed portrayal of Nixon and the Watergate scandal I've ever seen. Colson sheds a lot of light on the mistakes he made while working as Nixon's "hatchet man," and what it was like to plummet from such dizzying heights of worldly success. Halfway through, the book switches focus to Colson's spiritual journey and his evolution into one of the nation's leading voices on prison reform. BORN AGAIN is thought-provoking, well-written, and one of the more inspirational books I've come across.
I shoud have just dnfed this months ago, yet I kept it on my currently read list hoping that I would one day finish it.
This book for the first one-hundred or more pages was so boring.
I honestly hate politics and that's all it was.
It was very boring and confusing.
I never got to the part where he was put into prison and then later started prison minitsries.
But overall this wasn't that bad of a book, I just never got around to finishing it.
I hope to one day finish it, so I can accomplish it.
Many will not understand the "religious fervor" of Chuck Colson, but he does a phenomenal job of explaining who he was before Christ, his salvation experience, and how he walked through infancy in his redemption to spiritual growth.
It is a great autobiography to help many readers understand what it looks like to trust Christ as Savior and learn to rely on the power of the Holy Spirit.
It's a great story of redemption.
But even in prison, because of his personal relationship with Jesus, he helped build God's kingdom." I was engrossed in this book, and was a little sad when it ended.
I first read this book 1986 after receiving it from a friend as part of the library he got tired of lugging around.
It was one of those Christian books he was probably required to read while attending the parochial Seattle Pacific University.
While useful as an insider's look at events leading up to the Watergate Scandal and, later, prison life, Colson obviously wrote this book as the first of many Christian testamonials.
Reading it again after a couple of decades and the death of Nixon, I had a more historical perspective this time.
This was a wonderful and sometimes daunting insight into the lives and actions of those who rule nations - and who are only human and fallible after all.
The part that deals with Colson's time in prison is not even that long, but very impressive, with his compassion for his less well-connected fellow inmates shining through.
Throughout the book he stresses the incredible strength and support that comes from spiritual fellowship and unity, whether with his group in the White House or the prayer group in prison.
Now I really want to find out what that prison ministry he started looks like in our days.
a very inspiring and encouraging book! I heartily enjoyed reading about Chuck Colson's life during Nixon's presidency, during Watergate,how God got a hold of his heart and changed him and how He used him mighty through the Prison Fellowship! Slightly Armenian at parts, but otherwise a very good book!
"Prison turned out to be one of the best things that ever happened to me," (The Good Life, Tyndale House Publishers, Inc, Wheaton, IL, 2005)p 23 says Chuck Colson in 60 Minutes, after the 20 year anniversary of Watergate.
to the federal prison camp at Maxwell Air force base, would read Mere Christianity, have his life humbled, turn to God, write a book called Born Again and after serving time in jail, he would begin the largest prison ministry in the world, ministering to murderers, thieves and rapists.
It never gets old reading about Jesus' power to change lives.
While there was much good in stirring up a complacently Christian nation to a living faith, we missed some things.
Colson's story was one of me-and-my-personal-Jesus.
The book depicts fellowship among Christian politicians of various stripes, but none of them seems to stop and ask whether Jesus should have any say in what stripe of politics they should pursue and what governing under the Lordship of Jesus should look like beyond personal ethics.
The last third of the book is Colson’s vivid description of his time in prison and how he at first survived and ultimately thrived.
He describes how many inmates are permanently mentally damaged as they try to tune-out the world to survive their incarnation years, but then cannot snap out of this state when they are released.The book ends with Mr. Colson’s release from prison, but you can see how this experience set up Mr. Colson’s subsequent life work of helping inmates in their families.Very good book.
Colson tells of his personal encounters with the president, how he arrived at the White House, and his dramatic experience through the Watergate saga.
However, the majority of the book describes his time in prison due to his guilty admission and his responsibility for Watergate.
It is important to read this through the eyes of Colson, as it is his story.
However, the book does force the reader to at least inquire the purpose of our prison system.
His encounter with God through his experience locked up also birthed one of the most important organizations in America: Prison Fellowship Ministries.
It was a flawed thinking; they were, after all, serving a man who believed that any act, "When the president does it, it's not illegal." He also wrote of his struggle between the man and God, noting that when things went bad it was more often than not because he had presumed to take control of the situation rather than leaving it in God's hands.This is not just a book about a Christian called Charles Colson.
But, at this poignant point in time, I see it as the book of a man who had his flaws and knew it, and who is now in the arms of his Lord and Savior.
Chuck Colson gives a very personal account of his involvement in the Nixon administration, his conversion to Christ, his legal struggles surrounding the Watergate scandal, and his time in prison.
I found it quite engaging as he describes his personal thoughts and experience, written only a couple of years after the experience.
It is great to see the freshness of faith in a new believer, and the appreciation of fellowship among Christian believers that he was able to experience both in Washington and in prison.
And this book is more focused on Colson's conversion and life as a believer, than the scandal, which I appreciated.
An amazing and inspiring story of God's power to turn a prideful and sinful life around towards His service.
From being Nixon's "hatchet man" to trusting God for a bold witness in Washington and in prison, two places that desperately need God's men and women.
God can and will give us joy in any circumstance in life, ultimately by perfecting us through death.
A powerful story of a man losing his life to truly gain it.
Extreme partisanship, over zealous press, constant chaos, leaks, pride, paranoia, abuses of power, and hatred of the opposition.
I pray for our president and all of the men and women serving him.
Charles Colson was known at one time as Nixon's "Hatchet Man" for getting things done even at the expense of others' reputations.
Before reading this book I thought Colson was directly involved in the burglary of Elsberg's psychiatrist's office.
As you read this book, you find out that Colson had no knowledge of the burglary.
However, his conversion prompts him to live a higher law and admit that he had ill intent towards Elsberg.
His conversion began before the trial, prompting some critics to be skeptical about the timing.
This was required reading for a class I'm teaching, and it seemed a pretty dreary assignment at first.
However, it wasn't a super compelling read - for me, at least.
Once the book gets moving, though, you find yourself emotionally involved and really caring about what happens to the characters, all who are real people, and many who are still living today.
It's not just a book about Christianity, but also about prison reform and the basic human dignity that even the lowest of us in society possess.
It is amazing reading how God transformed his life and used him during his time in prison.
It is also so good reading about his fellowship with believers and how they loved and encouraged each other.
It was also very exciting reading about how Prison Fellowship and Angel tree was started in the epilogue.
I got this as a gift, so I'm so thankful to receive this as a present.
Highly recommended!Favorite Quote: "My feet were hardly touching the ground as I found myself praising God for putting me in this prison.
Thank you for letting me be here.
It was only after reading this book that I understood where Colson was coming from on his other tomes written after his conversion (The Church, The Good Life).
In his articulate and engaging way of recounting his life before and during prison, Colson's indomitable spirit was suffused with God's spirit which prepares him for his role in the foundation of Prison Fellowship ministry.
The very pain and failures that break one's spirit is the material that God will use to advance his cause here on earth.
It's never late to read a good book like this even if it was written decades ago.
I don’t give many books a perfect score, but this one sure comes close.
What is there not to like in this autobiography by Nixon’s former hatchet man?
Forget what you know about the infamous Watergate Scandal and read the first-hand account of what really went on.
I have to admit, it was chilling reading a personalized account of President Nixon.
Reading this book made me feel like I was sitting across the desk from the former President, a place frankly, I wouldn’t really care to be.
The movie Frost/Nixon, one of my favorites, did a marvelous job recreating Nixon, by the way.Read the rest here: http://adoptingjames.wordpress.com/20...
Even some practicing Christians grow up without understanding the term"born again." It's a concept central to Christianity.
An interesting history lesson on how devoted to the president are those surrounding him.
They try to make the president into what they want him to be even when they know otherwise.
Millions have benefited from his Prison Ministires and his personal appearences and books.
Colson, through Christ, has helped thousands of people who would have been repeat offenders in prison, find meaningful lives through belief in Jesus Christ.
Read "Born Again," and you'll want to read Colson's later books.
This was an extremely powerful book written by a man who experienced a complete turnaround in his life.
Colson was a key member of Nixon's administration and did some nasty things for the sake of getting the job done (i.e., getting Nixon re-elected).
That story alone is fascinating enough, but as this is going on Colson is developing a personal relationship with God, seeing how he has genuinely done wrong, and, most importantly, learning how God was using him in exactly the circumstances where God had put him.
This is a fantastic book that gets harder to put down the further along you get.
The personal testimony of conversion that spanned both a Reformed approach to politics in the seventies, and much of the modern missions to convicts.
Thoroughly enjoyable account of history and faith, showing God is at work in a very real and progressive sense to chase people down, make them his own, and transform them for his good purposes.
All the Sherrill trademarks are there: a breezy page-turner narrative that shifts deftly between moments of conflict, tension, poignancy, and humour; the promotion of a broad-based, ecumenical yet simple evangelical faith, with a non-threatening sprinkling of Biblical literalism and Pentecostalism; a recurring spiritual message, in this case on the dangers of "pride"; and, of course, a happy ending once the protagonist has learnt to trust God, who is revealed through direct experience and by synchronicities.The book contains some information about Washington D.C.'s Fellowship House (HQ of "The Family", although that name never appears), and we're told of various prayer groups springing up as the Nixon administration totters and falls.
And God can use even the worst moments in a man’s life and career for good.
This wonderfully readable autobiography has many lessons and reminders for all on the Christian walk, regardless of what stage they are in.
I found it interesting that Colson was a new Christian while right in the midst of the Watergate storm.
Another is the importance of and need for fellowship with other believers, no matter where we are: at work, in prison, at home.
We need to encourage one another and share each other’s burdens.
This book was shared with me by my dad and I’m so glad he passed it along.
