https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43929.Darkest_Fear
With every part of this series, I really love to hear more of Myron's story.
I love how we seem to learn more about Myron in each subsequent volume of this series.
I love his relationship with Win, also, this is such an entertaining facet of the series.
There is always a focus of Myron's women from his life, whether from a current relationship, or past.
This time we hear more about his first college girlfriend, and the ramifications of this that turn out to be life and death.
Behind him, a well-built guy skidded to a stop and arrogantly flexed a bicep.
Actually flexed.
I do love a series which has consistent quality and this is one. Myron, Win and Esperanza keep giving, especially of their wit and sheer entertainment value. As well as the fun though this book includes a well developed mystery and I have to admit I did not guess the murderer until very late in the piece. As usual Myron has to work through various emotional issues and also as usual Win fails to acknowledge that emotion even exists. Lovely. I read it in one sitting.
(Originally published in 1999)Just when I think I have Coben’s style figured out, he switches gears in this seventh installment of the Myron Bolitar series.
(Not exactly my favorite person) Well, she’s back and has brought some shocking news to Myron, which causes him to launch a massive manhunt for a registered bone marrow donor.
The tone of this story was grim right from the start, and is taut with a ‘race against the clock’, life or death situation, while delving into some pretty deep emotional wells.
The humor is still mingled into the story, but was a bit muted this time around, which was probably more fitting considering the circumstances.
As you start in you can almost hear the skeletons rattling in the closed closets Myron is getting ready to open!While dark and mysterious, the usual humor and somewhat wacky characters are still there: Win, Little Pocahontas, and Myron himself provide cynical, sarcastic, and sometime self-deprecating quips at machine gun speed.
Not that you can't enjoy this one independently of the rest of the series, you will just get a whole lot more out of it if you have read the others first.Mystery fans who are looking for a little slap stick with their gumshoe, you can't go wrong with Coben's Myron Bolitar series.

And to make it worse he also learns that his "son" has a lethal illness that could end his life in the very near future unless he gets a bone marrow transplant.An now for the next kicker, there is a suitable donor but he/she somehow cannot be found and is it possible for Myron to track him down and convince the person to save the life of a 13 year old boy.And thus Myron starts his search for the kids possible chance at life.
Win the ultimate collega boy is as lethal as ever and takes pleasure of Myrons outings and quite some personal enjoyment as well.This time there is mystery with some nice false leads and surprises right up to the end.
Secrets have a way of coming out no matter what or should we say some secrets?
Never in a million years Myron Bolitar would find himself assisting another love from h8s past.
There's a major catch to this story....Myron finds out that he's a father.
Yes, a dad to a 13-year old son.
The only reason he's told about him now is the fact his son is terminally ill and if he doesn't get the treatment he needs, it will be fatal.This was one bizarre, funny, interesting and really emotional story.
Once again, Harlan Coben has provided a great story with a lovely conclusion.
The beginning starts off well with Myron trying to be nice to his mother, a lawyer who never, ever cooks, but who has just turned out a pastry that Myron thinks tastes just like urinal cakes.In this novel, Coben mixes the serious with levity.
She wants Myron to find the donor and save her son’s life.
From there it gets really complicated mixing a serial killer with a discredited journalist whose being staked out by the FBI and a very rich family who has a secret they refuse to reveal.Coben ties it together very nicely, but I sometimes wonder if the excellent narration by Jonathan Marosz doesn’t make the difference between 3 and 4 stars.
7.5/10Another solid entry into the Myron Bolitar series.
You sort of know what you're getting with these books by this stage.
Myron gets some news regarding the paternity of a child from a former lover and quickly does the maths and realises it could be his child.
The child needs saving so there are all sorts of heartstrings trying to be tugged by Coben including the relationship with Myron and his dead.If you're into the series then you won't be disappointed but there isn't much that needs to be added to this review if you’ve read any you’ll know what to expect.
I'm sure I was involved in something quite important when he was the "hot new writer." To get the most out of Coben, I think his books should be read rather than listened to while driving.
Don't want to sound preachy here but drivers need to concentrate on driving...I can't give my total attention to listening to a CD and drive carefully at the same time.
To top it off, while listening to the book, I think I missed something important when the CD skipped!
Well, I liked it enough to get another.
And I really, really like Myron.
Darkest Fear is the seventh book in the popular Myron Bolitar series.
It turns out that Emily has a 13-year old son, Jeremy, who's in desperate need of a bone marrow transplant.
That is, until Emily tells Myron that he is actually the boy's biological father, the result of one last fling on the night before she got married.
You'll have to read this book to find that out.I really love this series but have to admit this wasn't my favorite.
Of course, you have to love a story that also includes Myron's best friends, Win and Esperanza.
His portrayal of Myron (conscientious) and Win (borderline Sociopath) is second to none.
Again, I devoured these books (in order, as with all series books) and in record time and found myself waking groggy from lack of sleep thanks to Mr. Coben.P.S. Same review for all the Myron Bolitar novels, if you've read one of my reviews of Bolitar you've read them all.
Well, Mr. Coben as with most series authors, is a master at being consistent from one book to another and delivering a sucker punch to his readers everytime.
Myron is hired by his college girlfriend to hunt down an elusive bone marrow match for her dying son Jeremy.Lots of twists and turns
Best yet, with plenty of room to grow/ like more Winn and Esperanza.The secret of the relationship between Win and Myron should be coming. A detective series about a top-notch basketball player, with mentions of sports all the time - a great idea for a series.
(This back story was neatly laid out in Book 3 - Fade Away - which provides both the background, and the reasons for Myron's reticence to help.)As the case progresses, Myron learns the probable identity of the donor, the missing son of a very wealthy family.
Emily's son is kidnapped, but even if he is found, that will not bring Myron any closer to finding the needed bone marrow donor.
What I particularly liked about this story were the secondary issues: on a personal level Myron must figure out what defines a family - is it merely blood, or is it being there in the life of the child, and does he have the right to be part of his son's(?) life.
Harlan Coben is doing exactly what he was born to do.Darkest Fear has a tight plot line, sharp humor, and flowing prose.
Coben's ability to use metaphor, and his descriptions, are vivid, pertinent, and so spot on that I quite literally stopped reading for a moment ...
and came to the realization that he isn't just very good ...
He's just that good.It's one of his Myron Bolivar series, so you get Win, Esperanza, and his parents as the regular cast, joining Myron as he tries to help this boy (who may or may not be his son) get the bone marrow transplant he needs.Coben really captures people and makes them real, and a healthy dose of emotional appeal is included.Well done, Mr. Coben!
Picked this up off the shelf at work.
Two day read for me, with a decent plot, and a cast of funky characters.
First Coben book I've read.
He's so bad that it actually became fun reading.
The first paragraph, I'm sure, was actually written as an entry into the Bulwer-Lyton bad writing contest.
As a bonus, Coben drops into a 2nd person voice, addressing the reader as an author.
He's clearly a fan of Douglas Adams, but lacks his wit.Not impossible to follow as a standalone novel, but probably one to avoid, unless you're a fan of the Bolitar series.
Wow, what a very fine book. The best I've read in a while. This is a good example of a page turner. I was completely caught up in the story and the characters. I've only read one Coben before, The Woods, which I also highly recommend. This is the first one I've read in the Bolitar series but I'm off to pick up the rest of them now. A very talented author.
Dit boek leest als een trein! Het wordt pas op het einde écht heel spannend, maar het is niet zo dat de rest van het boek saai is. Het hoofdpersonage Myron vond ik niet altijd zo grappig, en soms dacht ik 'hm misschien is dit een beetje vergezocht', maar ik vond het zoo spannend, dat het toch 4 sterren waard is voor mij!
This book is a cross between a private investigator and the movie Jerry Maguire (involving a sports agent).
A really slow start with chapters that don't appear to flow together.
Seems kinda disjointed until around page 140 when it picks up and start making sense.Myron Bolitar is an ex-basketball star who gets injured and becomes a sports agent.
In the slow times, he has been tapped by friends to investigate crimes and such is what happens here.
However the only donor match that was found has disappeared off the face of the earth.
She asks Myron to locate said donor.
Myron gets some stunning news from an old girlfriend, Emily Downing.
She is married to the man who is indirectly responsible for ending Myron's professional basketball career and he wants nothing to do with either of them.
But, their son is dying of a rare form of cancer and the bone marrow donor who could save his life has vanished.
This was an interesting story on several levels.
The search for the donor sometimes seemed to be a bizarre maze of unrelated events and people that converged at an unlikely point.
I really enjoyed the story and can't wait to read the next one to see how Myron deals with the aftermath.
This may be Harlan Coban's best book yet - at least the best one in the Myron Bolitar series. It's personal and intense with a story that threatens to rip your heart out. Myron discovers that he is the father of his old girlfriend's 13 year old son Jeremy who will die soon without a bone marrow transplant. They are off on a series of horrendous adventures, including the fact that Jeremy is kidnapped and they cannot find the one person who is the perfect match for the transplant. It's another edge of your seat mystery.
I love Myron Bolitar.
Whenever I pick up another in the series, I am reminded about how much I enjoy the characters in this series.
I had heard so-so things about this book.
It seems like this one had lower ratings than some of the others in the series.
I enjoyed this one.
I didn't really care for some of the outside characters, however they were necessary for the story.
Kind of strange throwing a son in there, but I suppose in some messed up way it makes sense and ties in.Good story.
Fast-paced.
Twists and turns.
Still loving the series...
My unbiased opinion of the books was I liked it. The characters were well developed. We all watch movies and at one time or another went to concerts and how we pick what we see is who they are. I liked this book for the story it told but also for the Myron's friend Win. Even though he played a small part it was pivotal in it. We have lawyers, journalists, mega rich people and the FBI to contend. Mr. Coben weaved a story that had you guessing to the very end can't wait to read his next book.
I would have to say that this book of the Myron Bolitar series is the best so far. Interesting characters, excellent plot with lots of twists and witty dialogue. It grabbed my heart from the beginning and didn't let go until the very end. It's best to read this series from the beginning therefore allowing you to see the growth of the characters. I'm looking forward to reading the next installment, Promise Me, in order to catch up with the characters once again.
Two-haiku review:Myron finds his sonBoy needs bone marrow transplantDonor disappearedDeep, convolutedRealistic charactersVery good series
3.5 starsI enjoyed the story, although I found it a bit confusing at some points. I missed Win in this one, I'd have preferred he had a bigger part in the story. As always, I loved the narration.
2 Stars for the mystery (there really wasn't one).3 Stars for the development of Myron, Win & Esperanza'a relationships. This has always been the element I loved most in this series but in this book it is far less compelling. The wit and humor isn't there.4. Stars for the new background story for Myron, and the new relationship with the son he didn't know he had.This is a fun series. It is consistent, and I will certainly read #8 soon.
The result is another mystery in the series that works well because it deals well with the real problems of its main character, problems we all face, especially guys in our 40s, as both Bolitar and myself happen to be.One aspect here--the identity of an older man living by himself--was as obvious to me as it will be to you, but that's okay.
I'm saying the opposite: Coben knows his genre, and he knows he can't outclass the reader all the time.
You've got to let them in on the fun sometimes.I've said before that Coben, like Bolitar himself, tries too hard, and he does here as well.
I intend to back-track and pick up the others I haven't yet read.From back cover:"Edgar Award-winner Harlan Coben brings us his most astonishing-and deeply personal-novel yet.
And it all begins when Myron Bolitar's ex tells him he's a father...of a dying thirteen-year-old boy.Myron never saw it coming.
Her son Jeremy is dying and needs a bone-marrow transplant-from a donor who has vanished without a trace.
Then comes the real shocker: The boy is Myron's son, conceived the night before her wedding to another man.Staggered by the news, Myron plunges into a search for the missing donor.
