https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/234184.Stone_of_Tears
Not as good as the first book but I still loved it Happy Reading! Mel ❤️
Richard: we've gone from children being brutalized to the very depths of psychosexual sadism and perversion, including copropilia and yes, a little bit of pedo/necrophilia tooMike: pedo AND necro?Richard: yeahMike: at...
the same time?Richard: yes.
*** 4. 55 ***
He's already half-denying that he has the magical gift,yet of course he does - but in addition he has to leave his love, Kahlan and journey to a far-off place without marrying her as planned!Cutest character - a baby gar that Richard almost kills, but seeing the way it cries and looks up at him with those big eyes, decides to leave it be.
At the same time, I found Kahlan's story intriguing - especially with the addition of Chandalen as a stubborn and usually insulting side character.
I found parts of it way better than the first book, Wizard's First Rule, and parts of it abysmal.
The only saving grace was the fact that I'm a sucker for crowning moments of awesome, and this book has quite a few.Richard seems to be turning into a Mary Sue (or Marty Stu, if you have it that way).
Rape is a very potent device, which is why it shouldn't be used too often, especially not on the main character.Weighing in at 979 pages, this book is a doorstopper that could have been edited down to a respectable 500-600.
The story was dragging on by the time I put it down.
It seems the author is already trying to milk the story for more books, rather than push a stronger plot.The final straw was the grotesque perverse explicit sex.
I thought form reading the first that I could see where Goodkind was drawing the line at what he would put in the book.
I did find the irony funny that Goodkind goes to the trouble to create fake vulgarity, not even showing all of it, then goes on to show scenes of such perversion as to offend anyone with decency.
The former landscape painter has told us how he isn't a fantasy author in every interview he's ever given:"The books I write are first of all novels, not fantasy, and that is deliberate; I'm really writing books about human beings."(1)"To define me as a fantasy writer is to misunderstand the context of my books by misidentifying their fundamentals."(2)"The stories I'm telling are not fantasy-driven, they're character-driven, and the characters I want to write about could be set in any world.
Despite what he says, nothing separates his work from the average modern fantasy author, and like them, his greatest failing is the complete lack of self-awareness that overwhelms his themes, plots, and characters.My Fantasy Book Suggestions

Okay, I'm going to have to give you all a little bit of background information before I can give my review of this book, so bare with me!This last spring my husband and I decided to get another cat, a kitten to be exact.
For weeks after the spots were gone and we'd shampooed the carpets I was still slathering Lotrimin on anything that remotely felt like it might be an itch, just.in.case!I said all that to say this, I would gladly go through that all again, start to finish rather than ever have to read this book again!
Wow, he's just breathtakingly deluded if he thinks of himself as anything other than a tired hack regurgitating the same weak stew that has kept fantasy in business for the last fifty years or more.So let me start with his obsession with children of rape.
The rape itself is really disturbing, both his insistent focus on it and his extremely careful assurance that none of the main characters be violated in this way.
I mean disturbing in making me wonder what Terry Goodkind thinks about over there in the Western U.S. all the time.
A huge disappointment after the first novel. I got through about half of this novel (hundreds of pages) before I felt all the meandering of the main tale and the love story were making the tale bland. After my glowing review of his first book I reluctantly gave up on this one and the rest of the series.  OVERALL GRADE: C minus to C; WHEN READ: 2001 (reviewed early April 2012).
Never in all of the years that I’ve been reading have I encountered a protagonist who openly advocates genocide and absolute racial cleansing.
If this is any indication of his personal belief, Goodkind would have had the victors of the Second World War order the extermination of every living Japanese and German survivor.Goodkind is technically a very capable writer, but to propagate this kind of tripe is odious and he should be ashamed.The worst part of this is that I received all eleven novels as a Christmas present.I give this novel a 1/5
Some of you may say that the writing is bad. I'd say not great but not bad either.Some of you may say the characters are a bit whiny and the dialogues a little kiddish. I'd have to agree with that.Then why the hell 5 stars?! you'll ask.I'd say:🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟 for a damn good story! Original and entertaining from beginning to end!🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟 for magic and prophecies, for love and friendship, for bravery and sacrifice!and last but by far not least🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟 for Gratch!
Things get weirder from there, and so much crap happens it would be a waste of time for me to write it all out, not to mention you probably wouldn't even believe me because so much weird shit happens in this book -- like, rapey shit and junk -- it's almost surreal.
For a good chunk of Stone of Tears, that sense of discovery is missing, and in its place Terry Goodkind substitutes mind-numbing repetition, both of dialogue and of situations, mostly to do with the love story between our heroes, Richard and Kahlan.When he's describing the rules of his world, or introducing certain characters, and certainly in his descriptions of battle in the Midlands, the book is interesting, even very interesting at points.
When I started reading them their was only five books, now that the series is complete we can set the whole thing into some perspective.
I will be happy to see the TV show starting fall of 2008 and hope it is as good as the books.On the less than benign side, the author does tend to stop telling the story and start preaching pretty often in the books.
I plan to read his other books as soon as I get a chance.A weakness of the author is he seems to give the Protagonist powers and abilities just so he can think of a way to take them away.
He knows that Richard is the one who needs to get to the bottom of things, but Richard and Kahlan have left for the village of the Mud People.
According to prophecy, Richard is the only one who can seal the veil and place the Stone of Tears back on the Keeper, preventing the evil fiend from escaping into the world.At nearly 1,000 pages long, “Stone of Tears” isn’t a light read but it is an engrossing one.
3.0 Stars. Good (if very long) sequel to Wizard's First Rule. Expanded the scope of the overall story and continued to add depth to the characters. The magic system is very compelling though the writing is often clunky and can sting the ears. Still, a good solid read.
An Opinionated Look at:Terry Goodkind's Sword of Truth Book 2: Stone of TearsBy Eric AllenWell, I said there might be a bit of time between reviews in this series since I'm not being paid to do this anymore.
Enter three Sisters of the Light and long story short, Richard is taken away to learn magic while Kahlan heads north back to the midlands only to find an army doing horrible evil things.
I think this one could have used maybe a little more editorial influence, but as a whole, the writing is pretty good for someone who had only written one book ever at the time of it's publication.
Uh, parts of this were just fine but the romantic parts were so saccharine I wanted to gouge my eyes out and I'm a person who can only be described as a super-mega romance reader... I loved book 1, but this one I could barely get through.
One character is even told by Richard at one point that if he opens his mouth to say anything at all for the rest of the day, even an apology, he will die.
I would say that it was amazing any of them were even sane, but sanity seems to be in short supply already in this book, so perhaps there wasn't really that much of it to lose in the first place...Every single woman in this book seems to be a blood thirsty animal and every single man seems to be a potential sexual predator.
Apparently, I have two things going against me liking Goodkind's books, 1) I have read Robert Jordan's Wheel of Time series prior to starting the Sword of Truth and 2) my threshold for misogyny is not sociopathic.
But Goodkind, my lord, he just rips off ad nauseam from Jordan's constructs and mythologies.
So far in this series the *only* battered woman I've found worth reading about is Denna.
He apparently does not have the talent to provoke the reader in any other way.Finally, then I start reading about the author, the interviews, etc.
5 pages before the end, the protagonist still has no idea how to resolve the issues he's been coping with throughout the entire book.
5 pages out, no one has any idea how to resolve their problems, then suddenly the protagonist slays about a hundred baddies, saves the world, slays a pretty significant antagonist seemingly as an afterthought, and resolves all the relationship problems that have been cropping-up during the course of the book.That being said, until the haphazard resolution, I enjoyed this book much more than its predecessor.
Fans of Robert Jordan's Wheel of Time will enjoy a new dynamic to this book.
Yes, I've seen these ideas and read these plot points elsewhere, but I love them so much I don't mind reading something similar, yet new, again.I really feel that the repetition of words and phrases are ridiculously overdone as many other reviewers have stated.
Mr. Goodkind has a knack for action and he's pretty good at Kahlan's, Zedd's, and other secondary character's dialogue.
However, Richard's character, when he's not fighting, seem to suffer at times.
Kahlan has the ability to make him see reason most of the time.There were so many awesome moments/revelations/situations (there really were) that I was easily able to skip over the parts that were unnecessary.
The series covers many aspects of the dark side of humanity, in great detail, as the heroes try to overcome the evils in the world.
Goodkind is not afraid to show his readers just what evil *really* is, that is, most often, people who perform acts of evil feel justified in their minds as to why they are doing so, if for illogical reasons, and will that those that oppose them are the evil ones.
Goodkind shows his readers that the only way to overcome evil in ourselves and in the world is through use of Reason.
Terry Goodkind was able to produce a second Sword of Truth story which manages to keep the reader enthralled from start to finish.The author has a style of his own from other writers.
This was a great book, I like the way he gets you to trust a character.
But after a while the ones you have learned to trust are the ones poised to strike you.
Sure was impressive, which in my opinion makes the events in the story stronger and more realistic.
Adding more characters could complicate the story but the author finds the way to get you hooked into the tale.Hey!
The story picked up immediately from the last book, and launched straight back into the action, building very slowly to a delicious climax.
Parts of the story shocked me, and parts seemed to echo issues covered in the first book, but it was clear that they are very different books.
As I said, the climax was rather delicious, and kept the tension alive, which made it real page turner for the last six chapters.
The resolution delighted me, and I can not wait until I can read the next book in the series.
I'm done with the series - unfortunately the second book was a big disappointment to me - very repetitive, with an irritating forever whining hero, and soooo long. As usual, the sequel is inferior to the first novel.
Love this series!
Unfortunatley though about 70% of the way through just like the previous book the final part seems to be mainly filler with more of a weird story just to be weird rather then giving the reader what they want.Richard has really grown on me and his character development throughtout this book is fantastic he matures significantly throughout this book and becomes a character you can really get behind where as the last book I found him to be annoying.
But this review is based on how I felt reading this thing back then.I even remember the day I bought the book.
My advice to you book worms out there, let your childhood classics rest, they probably won't turn as good as you remember them.And no limericks for you today, I'm gonna keep them for later books in the series, because they surely deserve them more.
Oh, I did confuse books 6 and 8 when it came to writing my reviews, but at that point in the series, it really makes no practical difference.
Classic, epic, adventurous, and not to be read by cynics over 25 years of age.Thanks for all the fish,Igor
