https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/760028.Thursday_s_Child
Cheese!!! Glorious CHEESE!!! I love it. The fashions described in this book had me laughing out loud!! Oh and how cute is this, using a pay phone to make a call or using a phone book to look up an address??! Hahahaha.
When I finished this book, I shrugged and thought, "If that's what she wants, okay." If I had a choice, I would have gone for a different hero with a lot more class than Spencer (and I'm not talking money and polish).I really liked Allison.
But I also liked that she did fall in love with Spencer instead of just being hot for him.
I think the fact that I enjoyed this book despite having very little respect for most of the characters is a sign of good writing by the author.
4.5 MISTAKEN ID STARSReview to come. I loved this one!!!
3.5.Allison Leamon knew that pretending to be her identical twin sister was a bad idea. For although the two redheads looked exactly alike, they couldn’t be more different. How could a no-nonsense scientist like Allison possibly fool anyone into thinking that she was the bubbly, vivacious Annie?Yes it was cheesy, yes it was corny, yes it was dated, yes it was goofy. I liked it. "And the red hair?"Our Irish grandfather." The book is 30 years old. Could you tell? Yes. But it brought me back to my
How could a no-nonsense scientist like Allison possibly fool anyone into thinking that she was the bubbly, vivacious Annie?Yes it was cheesy, yes it was corny, yes it was dated, yes it was goofy.
I liked it.
The book is 30 years old.
These are the books I read back then.
They were interfering with my study time and they were trashy books.
I don't even think there was "sex" in the books back then!
So if you are looking for a SB masterpiece like Lethal, Envy or Deadline, look away.
Its probably one of her first books - straight romance, no suspense at all.
Alison, "the brains," is the super intelligent scientist sister and Ann is considered the beauty and the sociable sister.
Ann wants to surprise her fiance, Davis, with a boob job and asks Alison, to pose as her for a few days while she has the surgery.
Spencer, the groom's best friend and best-man is instantly smitten with Alison/Ann. Alison is falling for him too and things become too complicated cause she can't reveal her real identity.
Sweet funny read with a smart bookish heroine and a sexy hot hero!
I loved Allison and Spencer they were adorable and sexy together!
The idea of identical twins pretending to be each other in Ms. Brown’s RS The Switch was written so much better than this older book, which has the silliest story line I have come across.
(view spoiler)[ Throughout the book, he was very evasive about his work even his best friend didn’t know how he made money or whom he worked for.
Bits and pieces of information seem to suggest he was some kinda secret agent, mercenary, badass pirate or whatever.
It turns out he is (view spoiler)[ a stamp collector.
(hide spoiler)] Says he kept his secret from everyone cuz well, it’s not a very macho occupation.
*wth?* (hide spoiler)]
Alison, "the brains," is the stereotypical brainiac (complete with glasses and wears hair in a bun) and Ann, though they are identical in appearance, is considered "the beauty" and the social butterfly.Ann wants to surprise her fiance, Davis, with a boob job and enlists the help of her identical twin sister, Alison, to pose as her for a few days while she has the surgery.
Begrudgingly, Alison is forced to trade in her glasses, bun, lab coat and sensible shoes for contacts, loose hair hanging around her shoulders, skimpy fashionable dresses and high heels.
Spencer is instantly smitten with the awkward sister posing as his best friend's fiance...and the attraction is mutual!
Silly little romance book, very pat story line, kind if ridiculous.
On the other hand, it was kind of cute, very sweet/simple, nothing to hurt the brain (if the story line didn't make you spit), and it had a sex scene or two that was fun fantasy material.
Nothing great here, just silly.OK, spoilers below, but here's my rendition of the book:Twin 1: Ooh, pretend to be me for a few days.Twin 2: No. Oh, OK.Fiance: Darling!Fiance's handsome buddy: You don't even love him.
Make love to me.Twin 2: Help.
I am not Twin 1.Buddy: It's you I want.
Although written by SB, this is not one of her gritty romantic suspence stories but a slushy Harlequin style romance. It was ok but I wouldn't have recognised or hazarded a guess that SB wrote it if hadn't already known!Nice and easy read but not one I would rush to experience again.
Goofy book about twins trading places. Pretty unbelievable but if you squint and hold your tongue right it was enjoyable. The hero was not to be believed and wasn't a really noble guy. The heroine was pretty fun when she finally came clean about the deception. Don't take anything too seriously even the plot or writing and it wasn't too bad to while away an hour or two.
This is the most ridiculous book i've ever read.I've always loved a novel with plot twin sisters exchanging identity one with another like Magic Girls comic or Danielle Steel's Mirror Image but this one is..
Alison Leamon was forced by her identical twin sister, Ann, to take her place for a while since Ann wanted to do the breast surgery to make her fiance, Davis, happy.
Alison somehow, as a scientist, wanted to know how would it be to have a son from a perfect man and woman.

I liked this book and I couldn't put it down. Honestly (if I was a twin) I would not want to swap/be my twin for one day let alone one week... I mean having to be yourself at your job and then get off work and be someone else... sorry I woulda told twin sister that she needs to just tell her Fiance she is sick or come up with some excuse why she can't see him for a week. But I guess that is just me but I really enjoyed this story. It was a fun read.
This is probably the worst thing I've read by Sandra Brown. What a stupid love story! The heroine was a scientist so brilliant but a complete twit. And the hero was such an ass I couldn't figure what Allison even saw in him. Terrible book.
For the review...well it's a very interesting topic, and really has humor giving the fact that it's actually a romantic book! As for what i've learned? It's never too late or too soon to meet the right person, even if the circumstances might seem odd!
The story is soo sexy. I liked it. XOXO
I love all of Sandra Brown's books. This one was a love story only - no mystery.
First book I ever read of hers. No author has brought the romance genre to life like Sandra Brown. It's real, not fantasy like most books. You can relate to it and find yourself in the characters.
This is one of the best short love stories I have read so far. I'm starting to really enjoy Sandra Brown book I must say. :)
Oh this was a really good quick and fun read. Sandra did a wonderful job on this whole book from beginning to end.
Sebagai penggemar Tanteu Sandra Brown, kalo baca novelnya yang tipis itu ada dua kemungkinan: 1) Dibalik tipisnya si novel ternyata lumayan bagus walaupun konfliknya biasa aja; 2) Konflik biasa tapi siap-siap alur ceritanya mengarah ke lempeng bosenin.Thursday Child kalo di novel terjemahan dikasih judul Peran Ganda.
Dari judul udah mikir ih mesti disuruh mikir dikit nih walaupun tipis.
Tapi dari blurb udah kecium bauk hmmm kayaknya bakal biasa aja.
Peran gandanya malah cuma selingan doang ga ada suara jeng-jeng jeng-jeng diikuti suara degup jantung dan keringat dingin.
Cuma hubungan percintaan yang menggebu-gebu yang mungkin karena pengaruh hormon aja hehe hehe hehe.
I liked this story. Much of the same but just enough difference to make it a good story. And, don’t forget, a happy ending.
Dear lord, what did I just read?!Thursday's Child has a ridiculous plot where basically everything and I mean everything leads to sex. After a while I started skipping the lovemaking where bodies 'fit together like jigsaw pieces' just to see what happens in the end. Guess what i found?MORE sex.
Ridiculous plot - who believes her fiancé will not know her from her twin sister? And who wants a fiancé who cannot tell them apart? How could she leave her sister to impersonate herself in an intimate relationship? Did she think they would never kiss or that he would not want to stay the night if he cannot tell them apart? So she can surprise the fiancé with new breasts? It gets worse every time I think about it.
I thought this book was pretty funny in it's own way, but of course dated as it was written with the early 80's style. I honestly don't think I would ever trade laces with a twin so she could get her boobs done and act like I was in love with my soon to be brother-in-law. I enjoyed this book and would reconmend it for a quick read.
Thursday's Child By Sandra Brown A hot and heavy love story; couldn't turn the pages fast enough. It was a book that took little time to read, just wanted to read was on the next page. Two sisters(twins) swiched identies for a few days. As a result the plot thickened. Good book.
We’ve got the twins switching places, the dorky scientist who wears big glasses and can’t interact with normal people, the awkward quiet girl who turns into a smoking hot beauty queen just by letting her hair down and putting in some contacts, the fiery red-head with an equally fiery temper, the 20-something virgin who is petrified of sex with the hero because he’s so BIG, and the woman who feels her career and life accomplishments are meaningless unless she can also have a baby.
But she keeps quiet, again.The following day, she’s at work, back in her regular old boring Allison clothes and Spencer walks in, determined to solicit her help in wooing “Ann.” He goes on and on about how Ann clearly doesn’t love Davis and it isn’t doing any of them any favors to pretend otherwise.
Enjoyed reading about twin red-heads.
Ann has devised a surprise for Davis, her fiance, and she needs to disappear for 3-4 days.
Enter her twin sister, Allison, who had her arm twister into taking her place at a dinner with Ann's fiance and his best friend, .
But surprise: the aloof Allison is attracted to the best friend, and he's attracted to her as well.
And Spencer is not about to let the woman of his dreams make a horrible mistake and marry a man she doesn't love (apparently Allison is not that much of an actress :) ).
Havoc ensues, then Spencer has to convince Allison it's her he wants, and not Ann. Quick, easy, fun read.
Good heavens. The other book I read by this author, Rainwater, was a sweet little book. This one was more like soft porn with a totally implausible romantic plot. The story line involves identical twin sisters who switch places for a few days, and one of these sisters is engaged. I have to give the love scenes points for humor, they were so bad. I read some out loud to Al so we could both get a belly laugh.
