https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/110391.The_Duke_and_I
This review is dedicated to my dear friend (haha) Navessa who was thoughtful enough to challenge me to read this book.
(view spoiler)[Did you people seriously think I would willingly chose to read something like this?
Julia Quinn: I'm sorry to interrupt this delightfully enlightening review but I can't let you insult poor Daphne here.
Julia Quinn: I'm sorry to interrupt this delightfully enlightening review again but I can't let you insult poor Simon here.
You know I ♥ you all despite your appalling taste in books.►► Most of my friends who read this delightful piece of literature keep mentioning its overflowing humour and witty banter.
“Can there be any greater challenge to London’s Ambitious Mamas than an unmarried duke?”   Well my Mama refused to find me a duke, even though she is desperate to see me settled down (apparently, I am a spinster at the ripe age of 24). In fact, she laughed at the idea, and then started her "stop reading-start living" lectures, while arranging to introduce me to the Lady of the Caramel's son, who is "rich, young and available"(I think available is her most important quality). Me, well, I ignore
“Can there be any greater challenge to London’s Ambitious Mamas than an unmarried duke?” 
Daphne Bridgerton haunted his dreams, evoking dark fantasies that could not see daylight.
He made her heart race and her body burn, and when he proposed an arrangement that would benefit them both, Daphne could not refuse.
Simon and Daphne were an explosive couple, that warmed my heart and my cheeks!
A woman determined to fight for the man she loved.And I savoured every single moment.
But still Daphne feels (even though Simon never claimed any feelings of any sort towards her) that Simon cares enough for her to marry her instead of duel with Anthony.
Daphne says "I-I've always known that I wasn't the sort of woman men dreamed of, but I never thought anyone would prefer death to marriage with me."Wow, that line made me want Simon to explain things to her.
So, Daphne gets her other brother Colin to take her to the duel so she can scam the duke into marriage-she tells him people saw them in a compromising position and he just has to marry her so she won't be labeled damaged goods.
I liked the character's amusing dialogue and the friendship the developed.Things did start to go a bit downhill for me when Daphne chases Simon down at the duel.
I know that Simon lied by omission in letting Daphne assume he wouldn't have kids because he couldn't have them.
Besides, she may not have agreed with his reasons, but who is she to try and say he doesn't have a right to feel that way?I don't know if I'll read anymore of her.
Fortunately, Simon was tortured enough to keep me happy.The beginning of this book was brilliantly done.
And boy, did he become quite a man.Imagine my surprise, that for all my affinity for Simon, that the star of this story was Daphne?
Perhaps he never would have found true happiness and joy if Daphne had not hammered (gently and not so gently, at times) at the walls around his heart.The event that puts a strain on their marriage could be read in different ways.
On the plus side, I did like the family dynamics, and the humor they brought to the situation.
If Simon really was a friend, Anthony would've asked more questions about the why and been more tenacious in getting an accurate answer instead of jumping into a duel where he'd be forced to kill his friend;➜ The following duel scene the next morning when Daphne outright lies to Simon about others, besides Anthony, witnessing their intimate act to prevent Simon from being killed in the duel and to force him to marry her, followed by Simon omitting the fact he won't have children and instead says he 'can't' have them so he doesn't have to tell her his very personal reason why.I swallowed these things hoping it would come out later and they'd forgive each other in the end.What I was not expecting was Daphne's grotesque arrogance and selfishness in taking advantage of her drunk husband after she found out the truth, denying him sex and companionship, and not allowing him to pull out during sex so she could have the children she'd always wanted.
4.5 Simon makes my heart stutter Stars The Duke and I has been on my TBR list for years, but I just never got around to reading it.
Now I can't believe I waited so long.
I wasn't two chapters into this book before I knew two things for sure 1.
I loved the Bridgertons and 2.
Julia Quinn would be a new favorite author.
This book grabbed me right out the gate.
It captivated my heart, and I fell in love with this big, loud but sweet family.
This book was cute, at times sad and had me laughing out lo
It captivated my heart, and I fell in love with this big, loud but sweet family.
This book was cute, at times sad and had me laughing out loud more times than I can count.
Simon totally broke my heart.
Simon and Daphne were very sweet together.
Simon and Daphne's missteps made them more human, and relatable.
I loved Daphne's whole family.
Her older 3 brothers really had a cute protective roll in this book.
I can't wait to read their books too.
Overall a great read and I think Julia Quinn has herself a new fan girl.
***4,5 lovely stars from me*** The Bridgertons are a really crazy, but wonderfull family!!!I really had a great time...This book was funny, interesting and i couldn't put it down!!!The only reason that i put 4,5 stars was because i was torn between and 4 and 5... and that's because even though that it was a really great story, somewhere before the middle had a really slow pace for my taste!!!Well, well, well...I have to tell you that the Bridgerton family aparts from nine members...The mother a
The Bridgertons are a really crazy, but wonderfull family!!!I really had a great time...This book was funny, interesting and i couldn't put it down!!!The only reason that i put 4,5 stars was because i was torn between and 4 and 5...
Simon will get ride all those girls and their mothers and Daphne will have more suitors when they will see her with him...But somewhere the plan started to change course since both of them started feel something for each other...I really liked this story...I laughed so much and i had a really good time...Daphne was adorable and so strong...
Actually, disappointed doesn't even begin to describe it.*Unpopular opinion time*Once upon a time, I wasn't into historical romance.
I thought they were silly and anti-women, and I wasn't even interested in trying them.
I'm thanking my lucky stars that I didn't try this book first because I fear I would have never read the genre again.
Daphne Bridgerton was the worst heroine that I've read in a long time.
To top it off, the book was way too long, and it took me ages to finish the audiobook.
I know, a very unpopular opinion, but this book only gets as high as 2-stars because of the narration.
I’ve had several of JQ’s books on my TBR shelf for quite a while now, and after mourning the end of two of my favorite HR series, Lisa Kleypas’s beloved Hathaways and Gaelen Foley’s Knight Miscellany, I was looking for another series centered around a family.After hearing such great things about this series from so many trusted GR friends (and also knowing that several of them are on AAR’s Top 100 Romances of 2007 list), I decided to finally read the first book in the Bridgertons series, The Duke and I.
gather 'round, dear children:A loving husband, very much in love, is eager to start a family but his wife is not mentally ready yet.
That night, the wife enters the bedroom a little drunk.
Anyways, the wife is very drunk so she goes to sleep.
She asks him to stop but at the same time she's doesn't want him to do it because some physical needs are, sometimes, stronger than will itself.
I'd be happy to say kudos to the author for the witty dialogues and charming characters.I'd love to talk about the banter between her and Simon and how hard I was shipping them.
So he makes a proposition to Daphne, the younger sister of his best-friend who is also tired of rejecting pretendents she doesn't want.
What they don't expect is those feelings becoming real.They both know that ended up falling in love for real, but Simon's past doesn't let him move on and get past it, so when things become serious, how will they make the ghosts go away and find happiness?
I loved every single word of it.Writing Style:  Third person, dual POV.
Simon was amazing, but you know how I love my sexy broken heroes.
I LOVED Daphne's family, especially the older brothers.
"Save your pathetic words," Anthony spat. "I'll see you at dawn."  Please let there be a duel. Pleeeeaaasssse let there be a duel.One sec, flipping the page. *pause* Damn...no duel.  "I've always known that I wasn't the sort of woman men dream of, but I never thought anyone would prefer death to marriage with me."  3.5 stars. I would have definitely gone for a solid 4 star had there been a duel. What a missed opportunity that was! There are more brothers in this family; it wouldn't have been a
The banter was lackluster, the sexual tension was almost nonexistent, and not a whole lot really happened.Who knew that a failed duel scene would be the turning point of the story?
I have no idea what happened, but once Daphne rode in on her horse, ready to throw herself in the way if necessary in order to stop her brother and the man she loved from shooting themselves, it was as if life had suddenly been breathed into the dying tale.
All of a sudden, Daphne and Simon were actually worth reading about.I liked seeing a few reminders of other series I've enjoyed in the past.
Written in the same vein as Georgette Heyer - not quite as good but still very entertaining! I must admit I raced through it because, although these books always have happy endings, it was hard at times to see how one was going to be achieved! Daphne and Simon were an attractive couple, the three brothers were hilarious and the Bridgerton family as a whole were charming. There was lots of humorous banter and some real laugh aloud moments. It was a nice, easy read for a Sunday afternoon and I will be looking out for more by this author.
I did, however, have some major issues with Daphne's behavior towards the end that causes their separation (view spoiler)[ She seduces him when he is asleep and really drunk, she is on top, and she forces her body down on him to take his completion-- all even though they had been fighting because the H felt strongly that he didn't want children because of his past.
There are some funny moments, some sad and sweet scenes, and a few sexy times...and they get a HEA ending.POV: This alternated between focusing mainly on Daphne and Simon in 3rd person narrative.Overall Pace of Story:  Good, I never skimmed and I thought it flowed well.Instalove: No. They become friends first then develop stronger feelings.H rating: 4.5 stars.
She had 3 (or was it 4?) older brothers from which she learnt the ways of men and rakes...well according to her....She claimed to be all knowledgeable when it came to the opposite sex...but she was actually a complete dimwit.Anyways....moving on...So Simon must make the decision if he wanted to marry her or die by the hands of her brother, Anthony.
I get it, she did in fact 'love' him but that's besides the point that he NEVER wanted to marry...but I decided to let this go for I knew he would fall in love with her...Then here comes the big whammy I will NEVER FORGIVE THIS POOR EXCUSE OF A WOMAN FOR...Simon NEVER EVER wanted kids because of his bad experiences and he never wanted his father to 'win'.
3.5*
Me encantó, no se porqué no había leído esta serie y esta autora, no sabía lo que me perdía, me encantaron Daphne y Simón, y por supuesto todo el combo de Bridgertons!
It was fun to read about Simon and Daphne finding each other through angry brothers, duels, crazy marriage mind mamas and a few misunderstandings along the way.
Simon was a great hero, dealing with his past and the treatment his father dealt him at such an early age, making it his goal in life to prove his father wrong over and over again.
Together both make a wonderful and funny couple whom bring out the best in each other even with crazy family members around them trying to rule them over.
Overall: a great and fun read with a lots of laughs and a lot of love!
I always remembered Quinn as an author who was more friendly to modern day sensibilities than a lot of the old school romance authors I read who were publishing HR books in the 80s and 90s but either that was a false memory or I'm getting more picky as I age because The Duke and I definitely had a few questionable moments I could have lived without.
I'll still be reading the next book as I feel like Quinn could easily deliver an ever better book if she just cuts out all the violence and morally questionable stuff in her stories!
Once upon a time in a make believe world... Jane: I love you, but I can’t marry you. I can’t have children and I want you to be happy. John: We were seen kissing. If we don’t marry, they shall literally burn you at the stake. Please marry me, Jane.Jane: Only if you understand that I cannot have children because I know how badly you want them.John: I understand.Jane: Okay. I’ll marry you. A few weeks later... John: Why do you have birth control pills?Jane: To prevent pregnancy.John: I thought yo
Jane: I love you, but I can’t marry you.
Please marry me, Jane.Jane: Only if you understand that I cannot have children because I know how badly you want them.John: I understand.Jane: Okay.
It scarred me for life and I will not have children.John: You lied to me.Jane: I’ve been in therapy and on antidepressants for 15 years to deal with my childhood.
He needs to respect her wishes?This is kind of what happens in The Duke and I, but it’s the female who wants kids.
Men are allowed to say NO and women need to respect that.
4.5 stars What a great introduction to an understandably beloved and well-praised series!I won't say anything on the plot, since 90% of my friends here on Goodreads have read this series, but this is the story about Daphne Bridgerton and Simon Basset, the Duke of Hastings. This couple though. Their little scheme, which covers about the first half of the novel, was funny and entertaining, and it left room enough for the little quirks of the Bridgertons to be shown. Julia Quinn, as I have experie
What a great introduction to an understandably beloved and well-praised series!I won't say anything on the plot, since 90% of my friends here on Goodreads have read this series, but this is the story about Daphne Bridgerton and Simon Basset, the Duke of Hastings.
I appreciate that and I'm probably in the minority but I don't think every heroine in this genre has to be widowed or a spinster or a world-traveling exotic to be interesting.The other Bridgertons were introduced in the funniest way, and although I didn't get a singular impression of the sisters, I loved the mother, Violet, right away, and the brothers were exactly like older brothers should be.
Sometimes what is needed in our reading lives is a good historical romance.
This is one that fills the bill.
A strong and intelligent heroine, a taciturn duke and a nice meet-cute that leads to romance.
Our hero had a speech impediment as a child that led to cruel parental treatment.
Our heroine knows her duty is to find the best husband she can.
But its hard to do your duty when men only see you as a friend.
Our hero and heroine strike a deal; a fake engagement.
Lots of fun and a sweet romance.
En realidad lo acabé ayer a las 2 de la madrugada PORQUE NO PODÍA SOLTARLO!!!! Me enamoré como una tonta de Simon... me encantó el epílogo pero necesitaba más. El único momento que no me gustó fue cuando entre Daphne y Simon se hicieron daño mutuamente... llevaban con un tira y afloja todo el libro y cuando por fin parecía que iba bien ZAS! Aún así no me arrepiento de haberlo leído fue precioso <3
I’m not a black or white kind of person – I live and think in the grey almost always.But there are some things that are just plain wrong, no matter how you slice it.I’ve deliberately avoided this author, hearing the words “light and fluffy” far too often in association with her books.
It just seemed completely out of character for Daphne - although to think on it, we did see hints in the pages leading to that incident that showed she didn’t quite have the depth of character we were led to believe.I’m not suggesting Simon was perfect, far from it.
I'm not really sure if it was intended, but still.But then, as Daphne became increasingly pathetic with every chapter, and Simon became an even bigger asshole, the book was quickly turning from readable to insufferable.
The defining feature of Daphne's character is her wish to marry and have children.
Anything at all.So Daphne, limited twit that she is, decides to take advantage of her drunk and sleeping husband, even though the night before they had a HUUUGE fight about how Simon doesn't want to be a father.And I can't even.
That scene made my blood boil.It's considered ungentlemanly and dishonorable when a man takes advantage of drunk woman, but when a woman does it, it's okay?
Who would have thought Evil Penguins had Deathly Deadly Death Wishes of Doom and Spontaneous Combustion (DDDWoDaSC™)?
I mean, you'd have to be a teensy littly bit slightly somewhat suicidal to send me a rec like this one.
Granted, I absolutely luuuuurved the first book in this series, but still.Now if any of you puny humans/little barnacles/whatever would be so kind as to let me know how to get my hands on this PoC™ what is sure to be a most delightful epilogue to the superb historical romance masterpiece that was The Duke and I, I'd definitely read it and stuff.✎ Book 1: The Duke and I ★
I loved it! I deducted one star for what Daphne did that I didn’t think was right, but I still enjoyed Simon and Daphne’s relationship so much! You can feel how much they love each other. Overall this book is a great Historical Romance that I highly recommend.
I was ecstatic when Daphne confronted Simon about his stupid and offensive ploy to avoid getting her pregnant: he deliberately misled her into thinking he couldn't have children - when, in fact, he simply didn't want to; and he did so taking advantage of his wife's obvious (and unavoidable, given the times) ignorance of sex.
All done!The fact that neither Daphne nor Simon - or Quinn herself, obviously - seemed to think that anything much was wrong with this scenario had me alternately outraged and seriously confused.
My Review:This was an entertaining read.
I loved Simon, the ‘tortured from childhood’ soul, and Daphne Bridgerton, the one woman who could rescue him from his bitter, angry existence, and give him a future filled with happiness, family and the love he never dreamed he could have.The family interactions were highly amusing in the way Daphne’s siblings protected her honor even when she didn’t want it protected.
Another fun side to this book was the inclusion of Lady Whistledown’s gossip columns which preceded every chapter.
They were almost as humorous as the story itself.I’m looking forward to reading more of the Bridgerton family’s adventures!3.5/5.0
