https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7940._B_Is_for_Betsy
From the cover, I was expecting a modern story, but inside was a sweet old-fashioned story from when childhood was still innocent. I wish the cover illustrations were less modern looking and more closely matched the illustrations in the story, but otherwise a charming read.
This is an adorable little book about a girl named Betsy and her experience beginning first grade.
This book is a level 4.3 on the AR reading scale.
It's surprising that a book about a little girl beginning first grade has a fourth grade reading level.
Betsy is very cute, but it may be a good idea to read this out loud with younger children so as to explain to them that while children used to be able to safely do these kinds of things, that is not he case anymore.
Another plus is that there are many other Betsy books, so if your child enjoys this one, there are plenty more to read.
This was a very quick read. Written in 1939 it has a nice old fashioned feeling to it. It reminded me of my growing up in the late 50s. I remember reading it as a child, but don't really remember my reactions to it. I would have read it in my first years at school. I think I would have liked the small town feel and the fact that Betsy was always looked after. Fun things happen, but nothing too scary or dangerous. Sweet.
This book was one of my childhood favorites. I've read it off and on over the years during my career as a children's librarian, and I'm looking forward to reading it once again for my Vintage Book Circle discussion group's June meeting..
B IS FOR BETSY is the first in a series of children's "chapter books" with stories of Betsy's adventures with attending school.
But actually, it seems to be a potentially educational and fun experience for use with my granddaughter as an example of how school used to be for her elderly relatives.Betsy first fears the start of first grade, but soon enjoys all the many experiences and friends that starting school provides for her.
Her class grows frogs from tadpoles, created a circus for another class, and donated a Thanksgiving dinner to an elderly friend of the school.
Another delightful children's book. Written in 1939, it captures the essence of the times, through a first-grader's perspective. Fears of the first day of school, puppies, best friends, getting lost, and hints of the troubled times during Depression years. Sensitively told, definitely dated, and heartwarming espisodes.
This book is absolutely adorable. Written in 1939 it is a classic little girl book - and for big girls, too!
In the first book, readers meet a young girl, Betsy, who is nervous about starting school.
The focus throughout the book is on Betsy's life at school and home.
It may prove more 'exciting' than the chapter on the class' two pet tadpoles.) The book celebrates childhood, family life, friendship, and community.
Miss Grey had told them that the Indian women were called squaws.
Ellen brought a tiny doll which Miss Grey fastened on the back of one of the squaws.
It was the squaw's papoose, which is the Indian name for baby.
Betsy thought the Indian village was beautiful.
But I'm afraid this particular entry in the Betsies Of Children's Literature annals isn't particularly special.It's not bad, but unless you already like everyday-adventure stories about girls named Betsy living in America circa Somewhere In The Early 20th Century, you can probably skip it.
It was a diverting hour or so, but the writing isn't nearly as good as Maud Hart Lovelace's, and the characters don't feel as well-drawn to me.Additionally, I'd recommend skipping the frog chapter, which is too bad, since it's nice to see science incorporated into the book.
The policeman in this story is literally named Patrick Kilpatrick!
The second chapter book I read aloud with my daughter was "B" Is for Betsy.
I read so many of Carolyn Haywood's Betsy stories when I was a child, and was very excited to read them to my daughter.
In this first book of the series, Betsy goes off to first grade.
There were some aspects I glossed over - notably, Betsy is initially scared to go to school because someone has told her the teachers will use a switch on her if she's naughty.
Overall, even though these books are set generations ago, there's much to hold a child's attention today.
Gosh, I loved these books as a kid.
I was still reading the Betsy books into middle school where they were way below my reading level and completely uncool.
However, reading the first in the Betsy series now years later to my daughter, I thought they were just okay.
I didn't feel the excitement I knew I once had about Betsy.
It's the first successful chapter book we've read where she was demanding just one more chapter.
I was worried the book was old-fashioned, but I don't think my daughter even noticed.
We will be reading "Betsy and Billy" next.
I loved these stories when my mother read them to me, and now my own little girls can't wait to sit down and read another chapter.
The stories are about the everyday happenings of curious, friendly, kind little children in grade school.
Ms. Haywood writes about how the first day of school can be scary, watching tadpoles grow is exciting, and best friends make life sparkle.
Mommy and Daddy are heroes that can fix anything, teachers are thoughtful and kind, and the jolly crossing guard is your friend.
These are stories about what childhood should be like, and they are wonderful.
What I love about Betsy is the pace of her life.
She is in first grade but not expected yet to read.
It is okay if she is not in an accelerated class or enrolled in five after school classes.
Betsy's biggest accomplishment is that she can walk to school by herself, even if she does get lost.
These stories, beginning with Betsy's first day of school, when she enters first grade, and going through the school year, until June, are delightfully written, beautifully illustrated, and hark back to a time when the world was less crowded, and communities genuinely looked after their children.
I have been looking for these books everywhere and I am so glad to have finally found them!
While my friends in elementary school were always checking out the more "popular" books in the library, I found myself coming back to this series again and again.
I'm pretty sure I read every book in the series at least twice!
I'm a little perturbed to discover that they've been re-released with a more modern cover, because I actually prefer the vintage look.
Brings back so many memories and should I stumble across these somewhere, I may just have to read them again!
The fiction book B is for Betsy is the first series and chapter book that i ever read. I was in the 5th grade. I loved and read all the Carolyn Haywood books when i was a child. This book is a little girl named Betsy that had many adventures including going to school for the first time, have a sibling, and have a dog. She loves school and is so good and innocent that you just can't wait to turn the pages. I hope that every mother encourages their children to read this line of books.
I read all of Carolyn Haywood's book as a kid, more than once, and so did my brother. The time finally came -- my daughter and I just finished this together, with me reading her a chapter a time. She loved it, but the most fun was talking about how things were different when the book was written (1939) and yet how things were the same, especially about going to school and making friends with other children. A real treat, and we look forward to reading more books about Betsy together.
I just read this to my 5 year old and we both enjoyed it very much.
so excited to be re-reading this series; part of my local libraries ARKS summer reading program (Adults Reading Kids' Stuff). a great excuse for me to read some of my favs from when I was little:)love that it's told from a child's perspective: how they process newness and unsettling first adventures (first day of school in the first grade), the excitement of the specialness when that day arrives, and meeting so many new friends.
A great little book for 1st and 2nd graders, maybe even Kindergarteners who can read...I remember reading "The Mixed-up Twins" by Carolyn Haywood over and over when I was 5-8 years old. Too bad I didn't know about her other books! I would definitely put the Betsy series of books on a must-read list for the very young.
Reading this book to my gd Betsy who is five years old. She seems to enjoy it...first book without lots of pictures. Simple tales of childhood, school, friends, it was written in 1939.Finished today. We averaged one chapter a reading. Betsy had a big smile on her face when we read the last few words. It's a sweet book
I remember loving the Betsy series when I was young -- one of the first series of chapter books I read all by myself. I was curious to read her books again, as an adult. This book is sweet, and contains funny parts that my children laughed at, as we read it together. We also talked a lot about how different the world is, compared to Betsy's era.
Just as good as it was 25 years ago.
Okay, there's one thing wrong with this book.
But you expect that sort of thing from books of this era, unfortunately.
If you can forgive the prejudices of another era, then, the real problem with Betsy is that there's nothing particularly great about her: no gem, no takeaway that makes her world worth spending an hour in.
Kids will forgive dated books, in my experience, but not so much boring ones, and I'm not sure there's enough here to keep most modern kids interested.
[One note I will add: if there is a redeeming point to Betsy, it's her mother.
Haywood seldom troubles to finish a scene, let alone provide a well-rounded vignette of first-grade life!
How times have changed--Betsy's first grade sounds more like kindergarten today.
I have often read of "sand tables" in older school stories...can you imagine having a table full of loose sand just at kid height in today's schools?
They'd have to have a special detail just to sweep up after the first handful got thrown!On the plus side, it's a gentle nighttime read of a quieter time gone by.
I did like that the authoress includes a better finished story about Betsy being wilful and rebellious, which stops the story being sugary.
This was a nice, easy read.The style is similar to the Ramona Quimby books; each chapter has its own little adventure (rescuing dogs, putting on a circus) to fill up one school year.
Betsy is definitely much better behaved than Ramona, but still has interesting adventures.This is an easy book to read, however I would suggest adult assistance if a child were to read it.
The story was originally written in 1939, therefore there are some references that children might not understand (word choice) or might need some additional discussion (reference to being hit with switches at school).
The child has asked for the next book in the series, so I guess that makes this book a success. There are certainly some elements of the book that feel like they are very much from a different time (unsurprisingly), and some elements that are objectionable (gender and other stereotyping), but on the whole it's a nice book and perfect for a 6/7 year old.
The book was written in the 1930’s and you can tell by the lack of technology.
But it’s a cool way to introduce kids to a different way of going to school.
As is the case with such old literature, the roles are stereotypical, the characters totally lack diversity, and nothing bad really happens.
It’s a nice, happy book about a little girl’s first year at school.
A cute and very vanilla-flavored (in more ways than one) young kids book.
There are also the original ink illustrations in the version I read.
I understand the cover changes but not the internal illustrations.
Why do the characters do to have to react this way? I was so sad… Such a nice story. I will look forward to the next part and hope that Ms. Haywood will improve. Please dont disappoint me!!!! Thanks, Daniel
Is a good book for kids
Nothing special, but a solid school-and-everyday-life story.I just have one problem with it, and that's chapter four, where they learn about How The Indians Lived.Now, before I go further, I think I'll address some of the usual complaints here.
Carolyn Haywood was careful to have the students in her book learn that the Native Americans were not one monolithic group that all live the same way.
If it were just this one book, that wouldn't matter, but virtually every time children see Native Americans in the media that's the message they get, and that's a problem.
