https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17333324-ancillary-justice
I don't review much sci-fi these days because I mostly read fantasy.
When I was younger, I read sci-fi almost exclusively.
So in some ways, reading this book was like going home again.
But what really makes this book great are the big *cultural* differences in the world.
I've read a fair chuck of sci-fi, but I've never run into anything like this before.
This book will make you work a little.
That's a rare thing in books these days.
If you're willing to work a little, this book is absolutely worth your time.
After the destruction of her ship Breq is on a quest to get justice for said destruction.This storyline alternates with a second narrative set 19 years in the past and explains what led to the destruction of the ship.What makes the novel unique and is in my opinion the main reason for its huge success among critics are 3 stylistic elements.The one most talked about is an element of the language of the Radch, cause their language only knows one grammatical gender.
We also get those instances where one body will be doing something from the first person POV while a separate body is watching from a distance also still within the same first person POV.The other mind bending concept in this book is that the Radchaai (the culture our ship AI belongs to) don’t emphasize gender, and they use gender neutral pronouns.
Also, the ship AI has trouble identifying gender and is constantly misgendering characters who are non Radchaai and often uses the wrong pronoun (still usually “she”) until corrected.
This is because the main character Breq is an ancillary -- a human body that has been 'slaved' to the artificial intelligence of a giant spaceship, in this case Justice of Torren.
An ancillary is not considered to be human, but now Breq must find her way through space, hiding and pretending, until she can find a way to discover the truth about how her ship was destroyed, and take revenge on the person she blames -- who happens to be the leader of the empire.There are three books in the Radch series, and I read them all one after the other.
I'm almost wanting to give this five stars, because I LOVED it, but the first section of the book is very confusing ( in some ways by choice) and I think that could put some people off so there you go.
4 1/2 stars, ha!This is a great sci-fi adventure following a character who is not man nor woman, and don't even try to figure it out, that's the confusing part.
And the plot is gripping and interesting, the other characters flawed but fascinating, and I was angry when the book came to a close, because I wanted the next one SO BAD.
Anyway, definitely a great book, makes sci-fi character based, and great world building.
I was excited to see Ann's treatment of gender due to the now famous use of "she" as the default pronoun in the book.
In my mind, though, it read like Tom Cruise's movie Mission Impossible: convoluted story lines going everywhere but nowhere at the same time, characters that were undeveloped to the point where I was indifferent to their fates and actions, and a stupid plan that was the foundation of the whole plot.Stupid plan?
Wow. This is the last Ann Leckie book I am going to waste my time on.
If you agree with the tastes of the low star reviewers, maybe the book isn't for you.
I love that kind of character!- Semi-soul-bonded spaceships!- It’s about an evil empire that’s trying to stop being quite so evil (it is told from the POV of someone from the evil empire, but you get a lot about the perspectives of the people and places that have been invaded and colonised by the evil empire)- The different cultures in the book are well fleshed out and feel like different cultures.
Before reading Ancillary Sword (the 2nd book in the Imperial Radch Series), I decided to re-read Ancillary Justice, a thoroughly compelling space opera and debut novel from Ann Leckie.
I enjoyed Leckie’s depiction of One Esk whose story is told over three different time periods spanning a thousand years.
There are also different versions of One Esk, who is both the consciousness/sentience of the Radchaai spaceship, Justice of Toren, and ancillary versions of this ‘self.’ These points of view take some getting used to, but there’s a big payoff as the intersecting stories unfold.
Ancillary Justice is an exploration of identity and cultural imperialism (depicted during Radchaai annexations of planets).
For the sake of transparency, however, I'm leaving that original, unedited (since my re-read, at least) review below.-- Original Review --There’s a simple life lesson that I still haven’t really learned, and it is this: being good at making art doesn’t actually mean that you’re any good at teaching, explaining, or critiquing art.The first example of this in my life was comparing a critique of the album “Closer to the Edge” (by the band Yes) with actual interviews of the band itself.
It didn’t make me stop enjoying their music, but it did make me stop listening to or reading their interviews.The second example of this was the recommendation given by Jerry Holkins (the writer of web comic Penny-Arcade) for Karen Traviss’s first Star Wars novels.
Heinlein and John Varley Leckie has produced a future classic that could not have been produced 40 years ago, Ancillary Justice is in many respects the culmination of decades of science fiction evolution.Like Poul Anderson, Leckie began with a great concept, a unique confluence of great ideas that work together to build a powerful whole.
Akin to Star Trek's The Borg, civilizations can get annexed into the larger whole (and assimilated - resistance is futile!)Modern novels like China Mieville’s Embassytown and Alastair Reynolds The Prefect come closest to a similar world-building masterwork like what Leckie has accomplished.
I hope no one kills me because I know most of the people who read this really enjoyed it in the end.
I wanted to see how A.I. could really mess up humanity, and while it did mess up humanity in the novel, it wasn't adequate.
How would I continue reading enthusiastically if the plot wasn't even engaging.
I wanted to do other things, anything to be honest, just not read this novel.
Most of my 1 star novels received such a rating because the ending was disgusting, or the plot was useless.
Chucked at 10%. I should have known better. How many times have I seen all those awards listed in a blurb and been suckered into trying a book?I'm just not doing it. Maybe it gets better, but no. I'm not getting trapped into losing a couple of months of my life because I'm determined to finish a China Miéville/Gene Wolfe-type experience. Maybe I'm not smart enough to grasp this genre.Or more likely, I just don't give a damn.
It lacked a nefarious edge to really get me down and gritty with the story, so I came away feeling like I’d just read a whole lot of fluff (with potential).I did have some positive takeaways: The book started with a great concept and maintained a strong voice throughout.
But the rest of his points were spot-on with my impressions of this book (nice review!).Recommendations: I’m not as wide read with sci-fi as I’d like to be (yet), but I’ve definitely read several I liked better than Ancillary Justice.
Despite that, it’s still recommendable for its interesting concept, characters, and overall story.
This book should have been a muddled mess -- two braiding timelines plus flashbacks, a POV character who is capable of being a thousand places at once in one timeline and a solitary individual confused by the concept of gender in the other, and a story which hinges on nuances of several nonexistent languages -- and yet it's clear and engaging from the first page.
Set thousands of years in the future and spanning generations, the main character finds herself caring for a man (though she can't see him as a man as everyone to her is female) who is addicted to drugs while trying to arrange revenge on the person who caused her separation.Now, I have to put in the obligatory "who won't like this book" section.
This was the best sci-fi book I've read in a long time.
It was one of those rare books that got the blend of ideas and story perfect.
Betrayal has reduced it to just a single ancillary body!The story was very engaging and entertaining right from the very start.
The world building was also excellent.
Leckie created an interesting sci-fi world.
Easily the most interesting sci-fi world I've encountered since reading the Hyperion series.
All in all I found this story compelling and interesting.
Her general narration was excellent and so was her voice acting.
Sauvardin (or however you spell it) was poor, I didn't like the way the character was written, basically a tag along key for the end story, with a not really believable storyline in the middle.
But the present day part was completely without description of anything but the two characters, it seemed not part of the story and I felt like we just had two characters in a bubble drifting to the end chapters.
I do wish I had read this, rather than listened to it as I do think that it probably would have given me an additional star.
Admittedly, science fiction isn't my favorite genre, but if you're looking for a novel with a concept that would be intriguing were it not the the novel's centerpiece, and completely unsupported by story - well, this is your book.Ancillary Justice is barely more than its concept.
(view spoiler)[If the ancillaries' brains are contained in the ship, and the human bodies are little more than vessels for the artificial intelligence, how does One Esk survive and think once the ship is vaporized?
(hide spoiler)]There's no beginning and end to this novel, no true story.
The lead character, One Esk, renders her story from three different time points over more than a thousand year span.
When the destruction of this ship leads to the ancillary unit going it alone, the sense of diminishment and loneliness makes her feel more human.
I leave you with a sample of Leckie’s prose that reveals the engaging qualities of One Esk’s mental struggles to make sense of her selfness: It seems very straightforward when I say “I.” At the time “I” meant Justice of Toren, the whole ship and all its ancillaries.
It fell short of the five star mark for me because it just missed some element I can't quite put my finger on and I felt the ending didn't quite round off the way I would have liked it to.
I also thought it was a very good way to slowly explain how Breq had ended up where she was.
We then discover that not everyone who is called "she" is in fact female so the reader can breath easy.
I'm also very excited to see where this is going next.
you know, one shuffles up and down the stacks at the bookstore and hopes each time that the next sf book one reads will:be well-writtenhave at least one character you care aboutbe well-plottedhave intelligent commentaryinclude some aliens who are really alien, or,include some humans who are not quite human andleave you with something really knotty to think about.actually finding one happens about once a year, and it feels like a gift from the gods.in this case it's a gift from Ann Leckie, whom i desperately hope will be gracing us with another book soon.
One of the most intelligent, original, and complex works of science-fiction I've read in ages.
School book! 3.5 stars!
DNF @ 34%Whoops, it's my first DNF of the year. I WAS JUST SO BORED. RTC ---------------------Buddy Read with Courtney! Nothing like starting the new year off with a little sci-fi! 🤖👽
I went into Ancillary Justice after having heard a lot of praise for its originality and imaginative ideas, and now that I've finished it, I can only echo those sentiments.The book follows Breq, a soldier who is more (and, I suppose, also less) than she seems.
An "Ancillary", Breq was formerly one of many corpse soldiers all linked up with an artificial intelligence as part of a massive starship called the Justice of Toren.
Breq as well as all the other corpse soldier "segments" who were treated as appendages connected to the Justice of Toren were collectively considered part of the ship.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Warning: Rant follows.Knowledgeable responses to SF require a certain apprenticeship; it’s impossible to approach SF criticism without a certain familiarity with many SF texts. Just as a wonderfully articulate casual reader cannot simply pick up “The Divine Comedy” or “The Name of the Rose” and begin a nuanced enjoyment of both books, a SF newbie must work her or his way into the specialized narrative structures and vocabulary of SF. The gender treatment belongs to that category.You can find the rest of this review on my elsewhere.
Was this going to be one of those books in which everyone fell in love with the uniqueness and ignored obvious flaws?
“The impending arrival of her first grandchild hadn’t yet been announced to the neighbors, so I pretended I didn’t know either, and used only the simple respectful address toward a male person.”Turn your brain in knots as One Esk describes everything going on around the Justice of Toren; through a dozen sets of eyes, all in a different place.
The story follows Breq, or One Esk; one single Ancillary from The Justice of Toren.
This is a very good sci-fi story, with very interesting ideas and if plot drags on you a little bit in the beginning because of all "she/her" (literally) going on - just wait a bit longer and it won't bother you any more.
Empire that reminds a lot of the one from the Dark Side - in a good way, if it's ever possible.
What I missed is a little bit more explanation on certain things (most of them actually), but I expect to get it in further volumes.
Rating: 3* of fiveThe Publisher Says: On a remote, icy planet, the soldier known as Breq is drawing closer to completing her quest.Once, she was the Justice of Toren - a colossal starship with an artificial intelligence linking thousands of soldiers in the service of the Radch, the empire that conquered the galaxy.
Now, an act of treachery has ripped it all away, leaving her with one fragile human body, unanswered questions, and a burning desire for vengeance.I RECEIVED THIS BOOK FROM THE PUBLISHER AS PART OF THE LIBRARY THING EARLY REVIEWERS PROGRAM.My Review: Pleasant enough.
I have missed everything the awards committees have seen, and am almost certainly the poorer for it.
How am I going to keep up with the sci-fi Joneses if I don't read it?Allow me to ramble on for another paragraph, I have a theory about sci-fi books which are suitable for new sci-fi readers.
On the other hand there are books like Anathem, Embassytown and Revelation Space that I think requires the reader to have cultivated a sci-fi mindset from having read quite a few books in the genre before.
It is full of neologisms and I believe it will be hard going for new sci-fi readers unless they are particularly intuitive.There are a lot of wonderful sf-nal ideas in this book.
Somehow, with the review’s mentions of sentient ships, hive minds and military action, it just didn’t grab me.
Yes, the book has all that – but although the main character IS a sentient ship, and has been part of a group consciousness formed of enslaved corpses, this character currently has only one, human body.
Although some of the other characters may feel that this circumstance equates to non-humanity, Breq is one of the most human characters you’re bound to encounter while reading (which, of course, is one of the main points of the novel.)Breq was one part of the great military ship of the Imperial Radch – the Justice of Toren.
