https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/168569.Sudden_Prey
The three men begin targeting the family members of the police involved in the shooting, and soon the snow filled streets are turned into an utter war zone as Davenport and the cops try to protect their loved ones and themselves.In the earlier Prey novels various kinds of nutso serial killers were usually the bad guys, and the last two books had stalker type men obsessing over specific women so it was a good time to do a completely different style of plot.
A really great addition to the series. The bad guys were bad, but also understandable for a change, not complete psychos. The whole book mostly covered a few hectic, exhausting days as the fecal matter hits the fan. Very tough to put down.Best of all was the way we see these people through the eyes of law enforcement, reporters, & regular people. Who is right? It's a tough call with a lot of personal investment & a really fantastic ending. Great job!
This is another very good installment in John Sandford's Prey series, featuring Minneapolis police detective Lucas Davenport.
As any reader will understand the moment he or she is introduced to LaChaise, this is going to be bad news for the escort, who's soon lying dead on the floor of the funeral parlor.LaChaise is in the wind with two equally messed up associates, determined to wreak revenge on the members of Davenport's team whom he blames for the death of his wife.
And before it's over, virtually all of the characters, good guys and bad, will become sudden prey.There's a great cast of characters in this book.
Typical Sanford effort with Detective Lucas Davenport. Never a dull moment. 9 of 10 stars
I think that Sandford's plots are just "get the bad guy," and that works for me. I have never put down one of his titles and walked away, never to come back and finish it. He writes great escape entertainment fiction!
About page 30, I started to get in to it.
Lucas Davenport set up a sting to bring down 2 women that have been robbing banks in the Twin Cities area.
He is released to attend the funeral of his wife and sister, who was the other bank robber.
He gets help from friends, kills the prison guard who he was in the custody of, and flees.
Dick's mission is to get back for the murders of his wife and sister.
One by one the spouses of the cops are murdered; and, it becomes a wild goose chase to find LaChaise and his bandit friends.
Lucas Davenport and a selected team of Minneapolis detectives have been tracking their efforts and are laying in wait to move in once the robbery starts.
Unfortunately for the detectives, the robbers belong to a family of killers, who decide 'an eye for an eye' is the only possible tribute and response for this outrage against their relatives.
A crooked cop helps them discover where close relatives of the detectives live through an insurance coverage printout.
Dick LaChaise, 'Crazy' Ansel Butters and Bill Martin believe they will be shot to death also for their revenge on the detectives.They.
Now, in defense of my review, this is colored by the fact that I accidentally read book #9 first so I knew what happened in very general terms.
The criminals were dumb.
The cops were dumb.
The spouses/girlfriends were dumb.
It was a plethora of collective dumbness.
I also found it hard to swallow the almost 180* about face the main antagonist did at the end of the book.
And I also question Davenports side of things and having the authority to just snuff out the antagonist.
Not one of the better Davenport books in my opinion.
Brutal, but compelling. Recommended.
Another round of the Davenport series.
Here, we find Lucas and team on the trail of Thelma and Louise-type gals robbing banks and credit unions.
After a shootout and the aftermath, the good guys have the cross hairs on them courtesy of the incarcerated husband and brother who is - to put it mildly- crazy insane.
The result is a biblical eye for an eye, with the escapee and his cohorts gunning for the loved ones of the investigators.Sandford has an ability to pull you into his characters and make you empathetic of written folks so deeply they become third dimensional, and you take on the rage, hope and despair as those closest to our group become the hunted.
If you’re gonna design games you need to learn how to play defensively, Lucas! It’s rare when he loses the initiative but it makes for gripping reading. This one was probably most like Shadow Prey in the sense that it’s Lucas and his buddies dealing with an organized group of killers as opposed to just one. That said, this is like Shadow Prey on steroids. These dudes are all specifically after Lucas’s team and none of them have anything resembling a preservation instinct. One of the best so far, almost up there with Winter Prey.
In this book however Davenport has to face off against criminals targeting cops for all out revenge and a do or die attitude.So far the Prey series has really worked for me.
It starts out with a straight up action beat that we normally don’t get from Sandford, who usually goes with more of the slow build.
If you are a fan of crime fiction and fast paced story telling then I would say this is a good book to check out.
But if you haven’t read the earlier books in the series, start there first.
I immensely enjoy the dynamics (and the banter) between all the characters especially Davenport’s fellow Minneapolis police detectives.
Lucas might be the deputy chief - that's just a title - he appreciates his colleagues as equals and he sees them for their capabilities as cops.It’s actually Davenport’s team that is targeted in this 8th installment of the Prey books.
On top of that, Dick LaChaise benefits of plenty of inside information, thanks to a Detective inside the Minneapolis Police department.All in all, another riveting read in this great series.
For me, picking up a new book in this series is like ordering a Big Mac. I always know exactly what I'm going to get, no surprises.
Sudden Prey is reasonably good fun.
Sandford writes well and does an especially good job at creating a dark, suspenseful mood.
There is lots of gun talk, the action is bloody, and the dialog profanity-laden.
Ultimately, this is a detective story that's long on action and short on mystery, with way too many sub-characters taking time away from us getting to read about what the main character is doing.
Another book in the long-running Lucas Davenport series, this one breaks the mold established by several of the previous books. This time, Davenport isn't chasing a serial killer, but on the wrong end of a deadly vendetta. As usual, Sandford does a nice job of making his characters believable and giving them understandable motivations. It's nice to see Davenport coming up as a little less superhuman than usual, and there is some good suspense built up by the time the narrative resolves.This series continues to be highly readable and entertaining.
A great addition to the series. Lucas Davenport has more incentive to use all of his skills at luring in the criminals now that it has become personal. A couple of bank robbers were shot and now their family members are looking to even the score.
One of the best, if not the best, in the series. As always, the bad guys are B A D, but these guys come after Davenport and his friends and family personally. Great book!
This is the 8th installment of the Lucas Davenport series from Sandford.This is a book about revenge.
The killers in this one begin their killing rampage as a result of a bank robbery gone bad.
Lachaise is in prison when his wife and sister are killed by Davenport and his squad while they were robbing a bank.
Is someone working on the inside tipping them off?As with most of Sandford's books, you know who the killers are and you even know who is working on the inside to get the information to the bad guys.

Meh. I generally enjoy John Sandford, but this one was rather all over the place. Way too many points of view to keep straight. Plus it was only a "detective story" in the loosest possible interpretation: it was a story involving detectives. However, there wasn't any mystery to it at all; we knew who the bad guys were and what they were up to every step of the way. More of an action adventure story than anything else.
Lucas Davenport / Prey series book number 8--- a very good, fast paced read- reading them in order and so far so very good! This series is worth reading !!
As a pair of female criminals plans to rob a credit union, Lucas Davenport sets up a surveillance net with the best and brightest of the Minneapolis Police Department.
With the help of a connection inside the police force, the psychopathic squad of twisted cons will stop at nothing to inflict an "eye for an eye" revenge upon Davenport and his crew.
Sandford has tried to play her off as a counter to Davenport's machismo but it doesn't work in this one.Here's a small complaint that contains a general spoiler and may ruffle feathers of diehard Davenport fans: (view spoiler)[ The author begins this book with Weather being a harsh critic of Davenport's methods.
The eighth Lucas Davenport series book from author John Sandford may have been the most action packed and suspenseful to date.
Candy and Georgie LaChaise are two fearless bank robbers with several scores to their credit.
Davenport doesn't get much time to struggle as LaChaise and his goons are in town creating havoc going after the families to those officers at the bank robbery shooting of Candy/ Georgie.
As Davenport and his team seem to keep being one step behind LaChaise, it's apparent there is a bad cop feeding information to the bad guys.
This summer I've been re-reading the Davenport/ Prey series from John Sandford.

FIRST LINE REVIEW: "Through the speakers above his head, little children sang in sweet voices, 'O holy night, the stars are brightly shining, it is the night of the dear Savior's birth...'" There are no sweet little child in this exciting return to form by Sandford and his great character, Lucas Davenport. This might be the best of the eight books in this series that I've read. Relentless and great fun for a quick read. And no, I don't miss those freezing cold north country winters!
3 1/2 stars. Good book with some crazed villains, a captive trying to appease her captors and notify the police about the bad guys’ intentions, and a bad cop helping the bad guys. The bad guys want to kill the families of the police team that shot their wives and sisters, including Lucas’s daughter and his fiancée. Will he and his team be able to find them and stop them before they do?
Well, this one made me pretty sure about not even dating anyone from the force. Made me think about gun laws and other problems of the system. And dear John if you f*ck up Weather and Lucas in the next book I'll be very angry. :D
One of my favorite series. About a man’s attempt at revenge against Davenport’s team for the killing of his wife during a bank robbery. Some parts seemed familiar; not sure if I had read this a while ago, or if certain parts/characters were mentioned in subsequent books that I read. Good as usual, very violent.
In this book, his plans to marry microsurgeon Weather Karkinnen hit a snag when she gets a good look at how scary he is, but people are constantly noticing it: the cold way he smiles, the hard gleam in his eye, the way he just lights up when he's on the scent of a bad guy.
And sometimes, it looks scarily as though he means for it to end in death, and gets a charge out of it - like the way he manages the hunt for a pair of female bank robbers at the beginning of this book, maneuvering them into a situation from which they cannot escape alive.
This was one of the few books that he references a lot in future books so it was good to be able to go back to understand what I had missed.
