https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/127586.The_White_Dragon
I suppose that's some of the class wonkiness in these books coming out, too (Sharra is not for 'relief' because she's Toric's sister, but Corana's father is beholden to Jaxom, so that's okay!), but the whole thing is deeply unpleasant.And don't even get me started on the whole Jaxom-Menolly thing, or Jaxom and Piemur snitting over Sharra, or poor freakin' Mirrim, who has a careless tongue but has had just as rough a deal as Jaxom but is comstantly slagged on in all these books.
First he only wants girl A to use as an alibi, then he kind of likes girl A because she strokes his ego (and more than his ego, if you know what I mean) so he uses her for more than just an alibi, then he completely ignores girl A and doesn't bother to talk to her again (seriously, he casually mentions her a few times, but no actual interactions or attempts at communication for the rest of the book) at all after months away and a near-death experience because suddenly he's in love with girl B for no reason except her voice is pretty.
Yes by all means, judge a book set in a feudalistic world surrounded by dragon on your personal interpretation of feminism on Earth circa 2013.
If you're going to read a book I think you should read a book and suspend your sense of self to really get a feel for the world that's being created.
However again, the stories are set in a fantasy world that is feudal in nature so how about judging the writing on the writing?
The stories are creative, plausible, the science of this world has continuity and logic, the characters are well written.
The White Dragon wraps up the Dragonriders of Pern trilogy quite neatly; however, pretty much everyone knows that it isn't the end for Pern. Although the series got off to a slightly rough start, it actually got much better as it went on. If you're a fan of science fiction, and you've never read anything by Anne McCaffrey, what are you waiting for? Give her books a chance!
Sometimes the runt is more important than anyone thought.
Oh, my gosh. I read this over and over in sixth grade, giggling naughtily all the while. Good grief, Jaxom and that buxom farmer's sister! I think I read this before any of the other Pern books, though I had read DRAGONSINGER. I loved Ruth, and the idea of a dragon who was just big enough to ride, but small enough to be kept at home.
Another great story of Pern.
This one focuses on Jaxom, the Lord Holder of Ruatha and his white dragon, Ruth.
You learn a lot more of Jaxom and those he interacts with.
You learn of his friendships and how he struggles with becoming Lord.
His relationship with his dragon is wonderful and they make a great team.
They take on some interesting endeavors that have you cheering them on.
He is a great character and he interacts with other characters that I have grown to love through this series, like Menolly and Masterharper Robinton.
This is another fantastic book in this series.
There actually was a book between books two and three that I'm not counting, but which do introduce several characters in this book, but I'm not counting it as one of the main books because that book was originally published as YA and it wasn't available at my local library.I prefer to review the books as they exist, and not the book I'd wished someone had written.
Personally I prefer that my hero fight against people and things that are more real.Outside of that it was a fun read and I do recommend all three books.
As much as I loved the first two books of the Dragonriders of Pern series, The White Dragon remains my favorite.
Ruth was my favorite character.
Ruth, the stunted runt totally unique White Dragon.
And Ruth's abilities to manipulate time and space are unparalleled in the evolution of the dragons.
As with most of McCaffrey's novels, I tend to skip over the romantic story lines as they bore me to tears.
Rarely does she write a romantic subplot that engages me.
But that aside, I enjoy the early Pern novels, and this one, along with Dragonsong are my favorites.
10/2014 Reread. The continuing adventure with Don to rediscover Pern. I love Ruth. I love Jaxom.  They are pleased to see us in the air together. Ramoth and Mnementh are very happy to see you on my back at last. I am very happy. Are you happier now? And fire lizards!I forgot how jam-packed the Pern stories were. Ruth and Jaxom's maturation is only a small portion of what happens as the politics expand, problems inflate and then are resolved, but really the bond between the two is what drove the
The continuing adventure with Don to rediscover Pern.
I love Ruth.
I love Jaxom.
Ramoth and Mnementh are very happy to see you on my back at last.
I am very happy.
And fire lizards!I forgot how jam-packed the Pern stories were.
Ruth and Jaxom's maturation is only a small portion of what happens as the politics expand, problems inflate and then are resolved, but really the bond between the two is what drove the book for me.
As usual, the adept statesmanship and Robinton's skills are front and center again.
I look forward the the Harper Hall trilogy and more details on Robinton and Menolly.
“I loved you first, Master.”
Oh Pern!!!
I reread all three books in the first Pern trilogy because I was curious to see if they held up to my very fond memories of them.
Dragonquest: Similar gender issues in this book to the previous, but better writing and a really compelling plot.
I didn't think much of this book; it felt much more leisurely than the fast-paced plotting of Dragonquest, with many more characters and threads (heh) and not a lot of narrative tensions.
It just didn't feel like a satisfying conclusion to me, and after reading this book I just felt all dragonned out.
The old saying goes, "You can't judge a book by its cover." I can still remember that summer day when I spotted the Michael Whelan cover on "The White Dragon" and how it caught my eye.
It was the last book of the Dragonriders of Pern series that introduced me to McCaffrey's world.But it was the story inside that cover that absolutely transfixed me!
I greatly enjoyed McCaffrey's style of writing and the incredible world she created.The story follows the life of young Lord Jaxom of Ruatha after impressing the white dragon, Ruth; a runt of a dragon compared to others.
Okay this is the final book I have read in my recent Pern binge. Definetly one of the best books in the series, though it may be a bit confusing as a first read as it requires a knowledge of the personalities of the major players on Pern.Anne McCaffrey has written some great scenes into the story. I particular love reading as Jaxom develops from a boy into a man and into his role as Lord of Ruatha.
This is one of my favorites of the series. Ruth and his rider are just plain nice people. Both are disabled in their own way. Ruth is the only white dragon on the planet Pern and Jaxom was born early from a mother who died at the time of his birth, and whose father died a short time later, making him the lord of Ruatha as an infant. Both will have to prove themselves to the humans of Pern. The dragons accept them as they are.
I think The White Dragon is my favorite of The Dragonriders of Pern trilogy. In this story. Jaxom, Lord Holder of Ruatha, has impressed Ruth, the only white dragon in existence. Ruth is smaller than a typical dragon, but demonstrates special abilities and more intelligence than a normal dragon.In The White Dragon, more is discovered about the original colonists of Pern. And I'm off to continue my binge re-read of the Pern books! I do this every time!
Summer Fantasy Fest read #25I think many of the ya audience would find the Ruth the white dragon dynamic fitting. He's just not into it. And that's ok. He's absolutely lovely.
This was my favorite of the first three Pern books. I loved Jaxom and Ruth, and the scene where the dragons keep Robinton from leaving always has me in tears. It was a fun way to spend the day.

Forget the characterization of Jaxom that everyone's complaining about (he's barely sketched in enough to even be called a character) and this strange fetish she has for men who force themselves on women - let's just stick to the basic level of narrative, of plot mechanics, of conflict and a focused through line.
These books are sometimes involving for, like, 10 or 15 pages in a row, and you say, "Hey, it's finally coming to life!" and then it doesn't, and nothing happens, and you get disappointed like this again and again and again.
Back in the 80s, when I was in the midst of my science fiction binge, my best friend got me Dragonflight, the first in the Pern series, and I loved it.
We have young Lord Jaxom, last of the Ruatha Hold bloodline, who whines and carries on about how nobody treats him like a Lord and yet he's not allowed to be a real dragonrider even though he's got a dragon--albeit an unusual, under-sized one.
And, oh---this is a good one, his dragon participates in the sex too (No, NOT physically, but he loves right along with Jaxom and his lady-friends....say what?
He whines and groans and talks a lot about how unfair things are, and yes, he has a lot of responsibility on his shoulders, but it doesn't stop me from wanting to smack him upside the head a few times.
(view spoiler)[I felt like he fell into love with her too quickly and it came out of left field.
(hide spoiler)]The plot meandered and it felt rather slow overall.
No real rhyme or reason--I just like it.
Still, there weren't as many just Jaxom and Ruth scenes as I would have liked, and the huge emphasis on the political plot was, well, rather boring.
But, as good a job as Dick Hill did in narrating the book, I can't say that it made the book any better than it was during my years'-long love of reading and re-reading this, the 3rd of the Pern books.
Fans of Pern and her dragons and dragonriders waited 7 long years from book #2,Dragonquest, for the release of The White Dragon in 1978.
Listen to Dick Hill's narration if you prefer audio.
But read the book, and enjoy a really good story, even if it doesn't have werewolves, zombies, or slam-bang adventure in every chapter.
Sometimes, you read a book when you're thirteen, and you're all, "Yeah, Jaxom!
She then mirrors that with the very idea of Ruth who is truly one of a kind and will never be like everyone else, a fact we all end up facing at one point or another.
It's all in character as far as Jaxom is concerned, but it's no longer the kind of character I look for.Still, I like the ending (view spoiler)[ especially closing with Lessa and the fireplace  (hide spoiler)] and the discoveries that point to how much of Pern is left to explore.
With this book, I have completed the original 3-book "Dragon Riders of Pern" series. This was definitely not what I thought is was going to be. I will go on and read other series someday, but what I will say is, if you like stories about dragons this is the series for you.
If, on Pern, you are female and only bossy or only nurturing, then you're out of luck; men will not find you appealing.Our hero this time is Jaxom, rider of the white dragon Ruth.
However, it could be argued that Jaxom isn't a real man by the rules of his society because he's not a full dragonrider (no apostrophe, like a girl) and his dragon is immature which means he'll never be driven to have sex with another rider; several characters alluded as much, including the dragon girl no one likes.
When I was very little I read all of the Pern books.
That is a little bit freaky.The plot is one of my favorites, however I strongly dislike Jaxom.
Ruth is my second favorite dragon, dwarfed only by Orlith, whom I love for a reason quite beyond me.
Ruth is everything I could want in a dragon, he's fast and agile, he always knows when he is, and his loyalty, bravery, and cool head have saved Jaxom's hide many times.
I also love Ruth's connection with firelizards, and how they help him many times.Another of my favorite aspects is Cove hold.
This is the third book in the series and you should read Dragonflight and Dragonquest first.
This book feels a little different with its focus on different characters: Jaxom and his dragon Ruth.
Ruth comes across as a character in his own right more than other Pern dragons, and he's an endearing one.
I liked how this bridges the first two books which feel more fantasy into more of a science fiction theme.
I like that evolution in the book.This is a light, entertaining read with memorable characters.
After all these years i still love this series. Jaxom grows up so fast in this book but Ruth is the star of the story. He may have been the runt of the litter but he is smart and very fast. I also think he is waiting to fly a gold dragon which is why he has no interest in the green and bronze as he points out he is the only white dragon on Pern, so why would he not hold out for gold.
After being disappointed with the first two Pern books I read (Dragonflight and Dragonquest), I thoroughly enjoyed reading The White Dragon. I think this book had great character development and a strong, likeable protagonist that were both lacking in the other two books IMO. I also found the plot much more enjoyable than the other two books.
