https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/844530.Lasker_s_Manual_of_Chess
The sort of person who, if starting up a magazine, would first think of purchasing a paper mill in order to have a better price available on paper.
We aren't talking Time magazine here.
We are talking ponderous chess mag in which he attempts to aggrandize the game.
I lived with somebody for 11 years who was not only like Lasker, but deliberately modelled himself on the great chess player.
I have an idea that if Lasker hadn't been a complete prat neither would my ex-partner.The trouble with Lasker is that he thought chess was life.
Want to know why a knight or bishop is worth 3 pawns, a rook is worth 5, a queen is worth 9? Emanuel Lasker shows you.
Emmanuel Lasker wrote an earlier work called struggle in 1907 he had a theory that all life war poli

I've never seriously played or studied Chess before and I picked Lasker's Manual of Chess as my first introduction to the game. As a complete beginner this book is helpful, it explains the basic rules of chess along with diagrams. The later parts of the book analyses opening or closing games which rely more on notation than diagrams, as well as a study guide on becoming more proficient at chess. I think there may be different book that is better suited for complete beginners but I think this one is suitable.
I like his discussion of the openings very much. So far, so good. If you don't play chess, don't bother. Later note: do you ever really 'read' a chess book? You study them. This book is justly famous. Lasker may be the best ever. He certainly held the title longer than any have. My teacher pointed out that some of the information is dated (opening theory is constantly evolving). Plenty of info for a newer player like me though. The update to algebraic notation and the transfer to Kindle is quite good, and that can sometimes be a problem.
Does anybody now it's rate
The moves and positions on the board are explained in an older notation other than today's standard algebraic so i found it hard to follow.
