https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/418373.Candida
بستة شخصيات فقط يصنع لنا جورج برنارد شو عرضا مسرحيا يليق بإسمه و صيته الذائعالعمل الذكي جدا المتعدد 
The beautiful and charming young matron Candida is torn between her devoted but smug middle-aged husband, the Christian Socialist lecturer and minister James Morell, and the passionate young l’art pour l’art poet Eugene Marchbanks, who wishes to save her from her prosaic middle-class and transform her into a muse-with-benefits.
It wasn’t until 1924, when Katherine Cornell made Candida her own, that the greatness of Shaw’s creation began to be recognized.I’ll conclude with a portion of Candida’s superb third act speech, in which she tells both James and Eugene and Marchbanks how much female effort it has taken to keep her husband “strong,” “clever,” and “happy”:
Here: three distinct attitudes towards marriage.
Alas, this is not as good as the outstanding "Arms and the Man," nor, for that matter, the tepid "Mrs. Warren's Profession." It's regarded as "brilliantly plotted"; with one, or perhaps THE, most masterfully-plotted play.
Also, it was what Shaw considered to be his favorite.
But I was not moved by Candida.
Perhaps it is the title that is to blame--being so closely related to that favorite of mine, Voltaire's "Candide" my expectations were...
Really, "the mystery" (which is the play's very odd and strange subtitle) is why this is regarded as one of his best.
Peccato, perché Candida è una delle donne più affascinanti e volitive che mi sia mai capitato di incontrare sulla mia strada di lettrice.Che donna!"Ah, James, mi comprendi davvero ben poco quando parli della tua fiducia nella mia bontà e nella mia purezza!
Le donerei entrambe al povero Eugène, nello stesso modo in cui darei il mio scialle a un mendicante che muore di freddo, se non ci fossero altre cose che mi trattengono.
Abbi fiducia, piuttosto, nel mio amore per te, James; se questo finisse mi importerebbe ben poco delle tue prediche: chiacchiere con le quali inganni ogni giorno te stesso e gli altri".
Wonderfully acted, helping to make shaw accessable to modern listeners.
Another Love Triangle19 December 2015 Well, even though it has been included in the collection of Shavian plays known as Play's Pleasant, I was a little surprised to discover that this particular play was written at almost the opposite end of Shaw's career to the first play – Arms & the Man. Anyway, I was making my way to Adelaide by train and I wanted something that I could read while on the train, and hopefully write a review on it in the same breath. Well, a three-act Bernard Shaw play ce
Another Love Triangle19 December 2015	Well, even though it has been included in the collection of Shavian plays known as Play's Pleasant, I was a little surprised to discover that this particular play was written at almost the opposite end of Shaw's career to the first play – Arms & the Man. Anyway, I was making my way to Adelaide by train and I wanted something that I could read while on the train, and hopefully write a review on it in the same breath.
Being an admirer of Bernard Shaw's witticisms in his social commentary plays like Pygmalion, Apple Cart, Man and Superman and Saint Joan, I was pleasantly surprised to find this heart-warming, whimsical turn by Mr Sarcastic himself.
As the parson and the eighteen-year-old poet crossed swords I felt myself troubled by the tense situations (unlike his more famous plays where one can appreciate the comedy in the fast dialogue) and when Candida spoke I felt myself calm down.
How is it that Bernard Shaw manages to switch tacks so quickly in political plays yet emote so well in Candida?
Must must read as it offers yet another dimension to Shaw.
Instead, moments are strung together with whimsy and caprice, which almost always undermine any point he was meant to have put across.Candida is a humorous and interesting play, with rather bizarre characters, but the way the conflict plays out is convoluted and absurd, relying on a natural concordance of thought between the three main actors, despite their drastically different views.
Even if he could capture Shakespeare's style and powerful characterization, he would still fall far short for lack of development.The play is funny, curious, and idiomatic, as are the best Shaw plays, with plenty of opportunities for actors to display their talent--despite the fact that they were mostly intended to be read instead of performed, often more resembling novellas than scripts in their construction.
فيوجين هو طفل ، شاعر مفتقد للحنان و الاهتمام و كانت فقط تخشى عليه ان يصدم بحب امرأة سيئة و يكفر بالحب الذي يستمد منه الهامه و شاعريته و ما كانت لتذكر لزوجها عن تلك الخواطر التي تجول برأسها لولا ماعودها اياه من مصارحة و مكاشفة و تحرر في الحديث مابينهما ***** و لم يجل بخاطرها حينذاك انها تؤذي زوجها بذلك الحديث ، فهي و ان كانت تعطف على يوجين و تحبه حب شبيه بحب الأم لابنها ، الا ان حبها لزوجها و شريكها بالطبع اكبر و اعمق و حين اكتشفت أن ذلك قد آذى زوجها في النهاية ، حسمت الأمر بدرس ليوجين الطفل و ان كان قاسيا بعض الشئ ، و لكن برقتها و حكمتها استطاعت ايضا ان تخفف من وقع تلك القسوة عليه ..،لنجد يوجين ذلك الطفل ذو الـ18 ربيعا خارجا من بيتها وهو يعتقد بأن عمره الآن قد اصبح اقدم من عمر الأرض !
And I got scared because, however, I didn't want Candida to be separated from the lovely Morell.He was, for me, the only agreeable and dear character from this story and I have quite fancied with him - even though I cannot find a serious and real explanation for the matter.
But this boyish poet, was not a man and by thinking he was right in everything and being quite right in many matters, he didn't see one essential spot, and that is the fact that, whatever Candida was, whatever he saw in her, whatever he thought of her or she thought of herself or whatever much the suffering may be - she was to love her husband forever, to cherish and respect him and to be with him for all their remaining lives on Earth.
فقد تعلّم أن يعيش بغير سعادة
And also an anti-feminist idea, because although it recognizes the "woman behind the great man", it describes a presumed duty on the part of the wife to "build" her man and be behind the scenes while doing so.Shaw on life:1.
Also, Marchbanks is a third wheel in a marriage, who befriends the husband and carries on a flirtation with the wife, a role that Shaw often played in his bachelorhood.Ironically, a few years after this play was written, Shaw got married to Charlotte Payne-Townshend, who was to fulfill a very motherly and protective role in his life, not to mention acting as his secretary and helping his writing career behind the scenes, and being his "enforcer" in financial matters.
الثقة المتبادلة وايضاً طيش الشباب الغير متروي.برأيي ان اعمال برنارد شو يجب ان تُقرأ اكثر من مرة ففي كل مرة تكتشف جانب من سخريته واسقاطاته على واقع المجتمع في تلك الفترة.فهنا نجد خطاب الرأسمالي والد كانديدا للقس كالتالي:"يجب ان لا يأخذ الانسان كل مايقوله رجال الدين مأخذ الجد والا توقفت الدنيا عن الدوران...لقد اصبح لك ولأمثالك قدرٌ خطير ولن يستطيع احد اسكاتكم الا اذا ملئو افواهكم بالمال.">/b<ما اشبه اليوم بالأمس.
هذا الاقتباس ينطبق حرفياً على تجار الدين في وقتنا الحاضر.وختاماً هذه بعض الاقتباسات.-اذا اردت حديثاً فريداً من نوعه فأخلو الى نفسك وتحدث اليها.-ذلك مايفعله الشعراء يتحدثون الى انفسهم فتسمعهم الدنيا كلها."كم انت اسير التقاليد يامن تدعي التحرر منها "
Reading this while in an advanced state of disillusionment with late capitalism made for a refreshing literary experience
I found this absurdly funny. This is the sort of thing that made me want to be an English major.
Excellent! There is much more detail of character expression than I am used to.
Very original play. Looks into the inner workings of a marriage through a strange love triangle (a bit of a love square even).

I liked the shrewd yet caring and kind character of Candida.
In fact, I liked Morell's character as well.
He was so sappy and dreamy and felt more like a self-proclaimed poet rather than a real one.But I would say this isn't the best work of Shaw as I liked 'Man and Superman' more (read this one for class as well), it was more vivid and the setting was vast compared to this.
Never mind, it was an alright read and I recommend it only if you want to learn literature.
This isn't leisure reading stuff.

From BBC Radio 4 Extra:The life of a vicar's wife is turned upside down by a young poet. Romantic comedy from George Bernard Shaw with Hannah Gordon, Edward Petherbridge and Christopher Guard in a production first broadcast in August 1977 and directed by Ronald Mason.
Good, but not great. This play is surprisingly shallow for Shaw. It is a nice story about loving relationships, but only one of the characters is challenged in any way and the whole play feels a little slight.I guess I was just expecting more.
كالعادة ، حبكة المسرحية كانت أساس أفلام عربية كثيرة في العقد السابق . زوجة جميلة و زوج مشغول على الدوام ، و شاب صغير يحب الزوجة .. إلا أن المسرحية فيها شيء من العمق و الفلسفة عكس الأفلام التي تعرض الشخصيات و الفكرة في شكل سطحي عبثي يصل حد السُخف .
Facile, antiquated, repulsive.
This proves that, despite his dramatic nature, Marchbanks is still more self-aware than Morell.CANDIDA: You remember what you told me about yourself, Eugene: how nobody has cared for you since your old nurse died: how those clever, fashionable sisters and successful brothers of yours were your mother's and father's pets: how miserable you were at Eton: how your father is trying to starve you into returning to Oxford: how you have had to live without comfort or welcome or refuge, always lonely, and nearly always disliked and misunderstood, poor boy!Candida understands that, despite all appearances to the contrary, Marchbanks is the stronger of the two, for he has learned to be alone, so he can be.
The woman in question is Candida and the two men are Reverend James Morrell (Candida’s current husband) and Eugene Marchbanks (a young poet).The first thing I found very surprising about Candida is Shaw’s treatment of stage direction.
An example of this is when he has Marchbanks explain why shy people can’t find love, “I see the affection I am longing for given to dogs and cats and pet birds, because they come and ask for it” (Shaw 43).
So how much weighting should we put on the nuances of character revealed only via the reading experience?One gets a feeling that G.B.S. was struggling with the dramatic form at this (early) stage in his career as a playwright, in that he was unable to confidently exploit its conventions to reveal the subtleties of character he wanted to reveal.
He thought that he is the right man for Candida who could make her happy even though he did not know what did she have inside towards him .
In spite of that Morell had no free time to spend with her ; he always busy in business,Candida chose to spend the rest of life with her husband ; the writer show us a way of true love between two couples .
Morell trys to guide people to the way of being happy , losing time to preach them , spending all the power he has to make the God kingdom on earth .
The Algebra Has a Devil for a SidekickThis award-winning play looks a lot like loading cans into the truck of a car, except the storyline is as follows: Through an elaborate scheme Arthur plots to get even with the Johnsons and get his money back.
Imagine my despair when Mr. Mondegreen informed me that I had just basically read a play that mirrors the plot for Arthur 2: On the Rocks.Have you met Mr. Mondegreen?
I can easily describe him through his more infamous quotes:"Bring back neglected words like piffle, balderdash, twaddle and codswallop." - Mr. Mondegreen"It's nice to be important but it's more important to be nice.
I found all of the characters a bit hard to like, and the ending was pretty predictable; (view spoiler)[it seems highly unlikely that Candida, who is 33, would really run off with an 18-year-old boy.
(hide spoiler)] The storyline is rather thin and the play wasn’t funny (it’s supposed to be a comedy?), but Shaw’s snappy dialogue does make it a pretty good read.
I do enjoy the message/theme: (view spoiler)[Here, in contrast to A Doll’s House, it is the men who are dolls and the women are quietly in control.
