https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6588.The_Big_Bad_Wolf
James Patterson gets a lot of bad press for his books, and I can see they have quite a few faults.
Short chapters and lots of action always keeps those pages turning and I am pretty attached to Alex Cross and his family by now so that helps too.
In the end I gave up trying to follow all the intricacies and just let myself enjoy the story.(view spoiler)[ I assume Wolf will turn up again in some future book and Cross will be able to bring him down at last.
(hide spoiler)]I think I have said this before but if you don't take Patterson's books too seriously they are actually very enjoyable.
Here's an example of why I gave The Big Bad Wolf two stars.
In one scene Alex Cross and his FBI boss track a man believed to be the most dangerous Red Mafiya criminal in the world, to his home in Miami, and arrest him during a party.
Before slapping on the cuffs, someone yells, "Fire!" in the next room.
Both Alex and his boss abandon the most dangerous criminal in the world, not knowing if there actually is a fire, enabling an escape.
Is Alex drummed out of the FBI for gross incompetence?
No. Instead, he's promoted to Assistant Director just a few pages later.
Not bad. Will be interesting to see where the little Alex situation goes long term. I found this crime plot only ok. I expected to like the plot a lot more than I did based on the description but honestly I only found it okay. My quick and simple overall: an okay installment. Really getting into this series though.
I was planning to start this review with a phrase that was able to convey incredulity.
The development of characters is superficial throughout - not even clichéd, just insipid and uninteresting.
As a craftsman, James simply failed to deliver a useable product.So what was the phrase I wanted to use?
Writing it down is evidence that words have not failed me, and so the phrase doesn't make sense.
And if words had failed me, I could not have written it down.So let us pretend that I am starting my review now, and that I am inserting it in full within square brackets:[ ]
Cross was working with the FBI but his rapid rise caused anger between some of the Feds; he found he wasn’t getting told a lot of details and frustration was high.
On the home front, Alex also had problems with his youngest son – tensions were rising; his anger and annoyance was high.
And what would happen with little Alex?The Big Bad Wolf by James Patterson is another fast paced thriller centred on an evil, narcissistic killer who needs to be taken down.
Another great Alex Cross novel which I recommend.
The Big Good Patterson!
I had no idea that I had chosen a book that was the 7th in a series of at least 17.
After devouring my first Patterson novel, and falling head over heels in love with John Sampson, Cross' best friend and partner, as well as becoming quite smitten with Cross, I knew that I needed to start at Alex's beginning and go through the entire series.The Big Bad Wolf is the 9th book featuring Alex Cross.
This story takes our street-smart, tough-as-nails, DC cop and puts him in the FBI.
I enjoyed the story-line; but I LOVE the cliff-hanger ending.
The Big Bad Wolf had a lot of messes within this book.
It constantly made me question what the hell Alex was doing.
There were way too many suspects to keep track of and at one point I just gave up and didn't even try to predict how this book would end.Other than that I really liked his family moments and how his family was adjusting to his new job.
I love how Nana gave him crap about him working longer hours than he used to and for working more than he said he would.
Also, can Alex stop messing up so much?
The Big Bad Wolf by James Patterson was okay for me felt the storyline fell a bit short for this fabulous series it fell flat in the middle he has done a lot better 3 1/2 stars
The Alex Cross Series has been overall a good one, but there are times that Patterson does better writing than others.
This one is pretty good.As usual the case started almost immediately and while Alex Cross now works for the FBI and has a new environment around him it still felt like good old times to be back in this series, even though I kinda missed his former partner and friend John Sampson who only made a short appearance this time.
Also it seemed to me as if Alex' and his team's progress was often based on luck and not on their skills which made the case appear a bit simple.
Alex Cross has left the Washington DC police office to join the FBI.
Just Alex Cross appears to have any brains among his new accomplices.
In any case, I need to give the person acknowledgment for having the capacity to make anticipation.
Fernandez and O'Hare make a solid showing with regards to of voicing the many characters.
My primary grumbling about the book recording is the gooey "anticipation" music and profound studio-upgraded voice that declares every part as though one's life relied upon this data.
At that point there's the significantly cheesier "delicate" music alarming us to a delicate scene with Cross and his youngsters.
4 stars.
The writing style seems different from the other books.
I can't really put my finger on it, but just different.
But, still really liked it and give it 4 stars.
Venting - Christine's (view spoiler)[ character doesn't seem real to me.
I couldn't understand how she could/would leave little Alex in the first place.
Her reason being that Alex has a dangerous job and she's afraid to stay, but she'll leave her baby there!!!!
Now, she's back and wants her baby back because he's in a dangerous situation with Alex's job?!?!?
(hide spoiler)]
Dear Mr. PattersonWhile this book was an easy read, I must say that it must have been easy to write because you have done this 19 or so times before.
I do not appreciate the ending hanging there so that people will buy the next book to find out what happens.
I will not buy the next book.
This cheap ploy to get me to buy book number 20 will not work.
Unless you were only best selling for your first novelLauraPS the only reason I read this one was because my mother sent it to me and it looked interesting.
Soo, I read the book even though I didn't read 8 prequels. Still it was readable. I like how James writes, it's thrilling and exciting and you can't wait to read another chapter. This book was awesome, I'll try to get my hands on more Alex Cross.
I think I would have been more irritated if I read London Bridges after this because the characters acted clueless about the wolf the entire way through Bridges, yet they should have known who he was at that time.
Alex lets other people uncover things then goes after the bad guy and fails.
Someone will turn up a piece of information, Alex will ask some questions to himself, then the possible bad guy will be sighted and Alex goes there.
The mysteries are ok, the bad guys are ok, but there is nothing special here.
I haven't read many mystery series, but every other one I've tried is better than this.
I enjoyed this installment in the Alex Cross series. The villain (known as the Wolf) was okay but it wasn't as thrilling as some of the other Cross books I've read. I'm still going to read them all though because I love that Alex Cross is from DC and is a stand up black man and a good role model for all.
"Untidiness" spoils otherwise great Alex Cross thriller!Patterson's latest is typical of his best work: furiously paced short chapters; an edgy plot that keeps the pages inexorably turning; and thrills and chills galore as the scary action rarely pauses for us to breathe.
For good measure, some family stuff is worked in, especially a surprise visit from Christine Johnson, little Alex' real mother, who seems to have custodial intentions despite abandoning the kid for more than a year.The plot, about a ruthless Russian Mafia type ("Wolf", now operating here) who seems all powerful, is more than adequate to sustain entertaining reading til nearly the end.
A series of kidnappings with no ransoms perplexes Alex Cross and his fellow FBI agents.
Alex Cross must rise above the fray of bureaucratic disputes and solve the puzzle of the Wolf before more innocents are tortured and killed.
The story tells a tale of problems occurring in today's world: the rise of the Russian mafia and the kidnapping of college and suburban men and women for the pleasure of a psychotic buyer.
The Wolf, a psychotic Russian mobster, is a crude and dangerous, yet fascinating character.
And Alex Cross' battles with FBI bureau heads are interesting and believable.
Big Bad Wolf had a sufficient amount of tension and moved along at a nice pace, but what it suffered is that neither the plot, the situation or the characters were remotely believable.
If you look at the history of law enforcement, the law officers know who the bad guys are, but they often can't build up enough evidence to arrest and convict them.
The Wolf is built as this hands on character, who gets in the middle of all of this shady business, but nobody knows who he is or what he looks like.
One of the better installments of the Alex Cross series. Maybe because it was a bit extra dark and twisted and was a bit of a cliffhanger so it makes me want to jump right into the next one. I am starting to like Alex Cross more and more which took me longer than the Michael Bennett series. Good Read!
I love this series! Always a good read.
Single dad, raising three kids, living with his grandmother, PHD from John's Hopkins, plays classical music on his piano to relax, reads poetry, athlete, grew up on the wrong side of the tracks.
There is soooo much of this in Big Bad Wolf, probably because Cross just left the DCPD for the FBI so there is so much stupid, boring, played out, FBI vs PD garbage.In the end, this is still a Patterson book, so there is good mystery and action.
It is entertaining, but doesn't make me want to read (well listen to, I have never actually read a Patterson book) any more Alex Cross books.
Not one of the better Alex Cross books but still an enjoyable read.
This book focuses around Alex's first case since joining the FBI that has his new colleagues perplexed.
These people are not being taken for ransom, Alex realises.
And it seems a predator known as The Wolf is the mastermind behind this terrible trade and is bringing a new reign of terror to organised crime.The character development in this book is just amazing.
The only thing that let it down for me was that there was too many people that was supposedly the Wolf and then it turned out that they wasn't.
This series would be better served with less family drama and more detecting. It would also be better if bad guys didn't walk away scot free. 4 of 10 stars
Also it seemed to me as if Alex' and his team's progress was often based on luck and not on their skills which made the case appear a bit simple.However I had a good time listening to the book and it seems as if Pattersons has found a new remarkable villain with the "Wolf" and I definitely want to catch up on all the other books in the Alex Cross series now!
This time Alex was dealing with the Mob and the sex slave trade… :-( , for sure not my cup of tea.
Alex is called in to work a case were a federal judge's wife is kidnapped, then a clothing designer followed by Benjamin.
Hold that!I think the worse part of the whole book for me was when I found out that the dirty ass judge is the one that sold his own wife.
How horrible a marriage do you have to have to do that!I did appreciate that Alex felt a bit intimidated by the complexity of working with the FBI as compared to the police force.
Alex Cross transfers to the FBI.
In training at Quantico, Virginia, Cross is pulled from classes to work on cases.
Nana, Damon, Jannie, little Alex and not to forget, Rosie the cat is Cross's family.
He loves them very much.Nana is the spitfire grandmother of Alex.
Jannie is 14 going on 21.
Damon is lovable and little Alex is adorable.
I enjoyed being in the Cross home.
Didn't know if she'd live or die.I enjoyed this story.
The change of Cross going from a police officer to an FBI agent leveled up the series.
I look forward to more of Agent Cross.
Alex Cross is back on top form with his first FBI case, in the hunt for Russian monster The Wolf.
I thoroughly enjoyed this instalment in the Alex Cross series and after a minor lapse with books 7 & 9, I'm glad things picked up with book 9.
Good plot, with a few twists and turns which saw this book ending with a cliffhanger.
Poor Alex seems no further forward with the car crash this is his personal life but let's just say after the way book 9 ended, I "cross" my fingers that Alex's ex, Christine Johnston, gets what's coming to her in an upcoming instalment......
This one was good, but it wasn't my favorite.
Mostly because it didn't hold my attention as well as the previous in the series.
It was a little predictable about the Wolf.
I know there are always books in a series that will not be as big a hit with a reader, this one was mine.
I felt it went a little long and didn't find myself captured by the story.
Still had a good story but not what I was expecting.
The antagonist was a little overdone.
I am on to the next in the series.
