https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18296161-murder-on-the-home-front
We find here that the only female murder victim the author felt wasn't to blame for her own death was a thirteen year old girl of whom the author says "....best soon forgotten".
A young man who murdered a girl by stabbing her 34 times because he if he couldn't have her no one would, is an object of sympathy while the girl's angry and heartbroken father isn't worthy of pity because he expressed his anger over the killing.
I realize that Lefebure was a product of her times, but this is the worst case of victim blaming, internalized misogyny and man worshiping I've ever come across.
Not here.Molly is telling her own tale of her own experiences as a secretary present during forensic p.m.'s performed during the London WWII experience.
It was rather fascinating to read this view of another era through such completely different values and judgments too.
And in both eras of time those definitions are of course, settled and base "truth".
It had to be a quarter of the way to insanity as she describes it.But overall the book reveals the very fragility of human physical nature, to me it does.
Sad, sad endings, many after even sadder lives.This is not a book that makes you feel better about human nature.
I just wish she'd let it show.I'm giving Murder on the Home Front four stars for its value as a primary source about living in London during World War II.
And while she's being chipper and cozy in the foreground, her job, as secretary to Keith Simpson, would be fascinating if she'd let us see it.She is not a true crime writer.
Despite the fabulous opening line: The murdered baby had been found in a small suitcase.: this is much more about living in London during World War II and happening to have an unusual job, replete with "characters" to provide anecdotes, than it is about, say, the practice of forensic pathology between 1941 and 1946.
The forensic cases are interesting, and I was impressed to see how many of today’s best practices had already been established at that time, despite the significant differences in technology.The author, Lefebure, is a strong, eccentric character, at times delightful, at others very off-putting.
At one point she tells us, “You could spend a hundred years in London’s mortuaries and never be bored.”My complaint about the book is that Lefebure is also a creature of her time, coming across to today’s readers as deeply callous.
All the paperbacks I picked up tended to be autobiographical stories about the adventures of doctors in Africa combatting local superstitions, or of adventurers and their escapades in the Spanish Civil War or the Second World War. Occasionally they would be the reminiscences of Police Detectives narrating a list of crimes or counter-espionage agents...
Molly Lefebure's story is fascinating, not just because of the life she experienced as a secretary to one of the leading figures in Forensic Pathology, sitting in on post-mortems and attending crime scenes, but also because of this all taking place during the Second World War, during the bombings and social upheaval of the time.It is an easy read and manages to capture something of the world that has long disappeared.
I was expecting something different based on the description on the back cover. It details and document various murders that occurred but there isn't much mystery to them. The forensics of the autopsies did not seem to solve the cases so it turns into a bit of a dry read. From the title I thought there would be some discussion about murder rates during the time period, i.e. did people take advantage of the war and try to get away with murder. I did not dislike the book it was just not what I anticipated.
Very interesting take of what life was like working in the forensic world during the blitz. The book was actually written in the 1950's, but based on Lefebure's own experiences working alongside Dr Simpson, one of the more famous pathologists, up there with Bernard Spilsbury. Saw the ITV show by the same name, which was disappointing, Dr Simpson becomes a fictional character, and Molly turns into an airhead.
I have mixed feelings about this book.
While I found it enjoyable, and the stories interesting, it was very off putting to read in places because of the narrator.
Leferbure was a product of her time, and this book was written in the 50’s, but even with that in mind it was still disconcerting to hear such misogyny and victim blaming attitudes calmly being spouted.
That made the book hard to read at points, as one had the urge to reach through the book and shake the author, while asking “what were you thinking?!” I don’t feel like a memoir was the best way to showcase this woman’s story.
This didn’t turn out to be quite what I expected.
Lefebure writes of her own experiences as secretary to a forensic pathologist, and leaves out nonsense of the gory details.
In any case, I was expecting a little more mystery and a little less morgue.
I was interested in it for the World War II aspect, but other than the dirty deeds of a few soldiers, this had little to do with the war.
On a side note, I’m a little bothered by the fact that this author went on to write children’s stories, according to her bio...
She gives us glimpses of every layer of London society and examples of one murder, suicide and unattended death after another, the tall and the small.
She gives the reader a lot of insight into the temper of the times and the conditions people lived under in London during the Blitz, as well as the very entertaining reactions she got from other people when she told them what she did for a living.
This book is wonderfully written in a way you hardly ever see anymore -- the sentences are graceful and witty, never clumsy or inept.
The author was secretary to the Home Office pathologist, Keith Simpson during World War II and this books is about her fascinating job.
Some of the deaths which the pathologist dealt with were natural deaths but many were murder or suicide.
I loved the way the author showed the human tragedies behind many of the cases with which she was involved.If you enjoy reading true crime books or books about life in World War II then this book will be of interest to you but above all it is a portrait of life and death and the way ordinary people deal with life in wartime.
I've had this book on my radar since I watched the tv series last year and grabbed it when I saw it as part of a 3 books for £5 offer.
A really enlightening and enjoyable read based on Molly Lefebure's experiences in a London mortuary during world war 2.
Lefebure is witty and charismatic relating her 5 years as secretary to Dr Simpson, a forensic pathologist.
Molly's voice is warm, intelligent with the right amount of wit to make this a fantastically enjoyable read for anyone with interests in crime and history.
What a surprise !! I would never have guessed that I would discover an author with such a beautiful writing style. Her descriptions of people, places, especially London, and her understanding of deeply felt emotions - these all combine to deliver a very poignant kind of autobiography. I will certainly hunt for her novels and read those. Such an unknown author here, in Canada, and such a bonus for me to have found her.
Overall I enjoyed the book but there were some obvious prejudices that dated the book. Considering how many murders she witnessed, it was disconcerting that she kept mentioning how abnormal murders looked. Most of the murderers I see in the newspaper look just like you and me. Also some of her opinions about people and behavior reflect are no longer currently thought (or at least if thought are not mentioned).
This is written in an easy to read manner and is laced not with just murder,mayhem and blood but with a droll sense of humour. She tells not just how thw sights she sees at murder scenes and in the morgue but also how the continuing years of war affected her in particular and the rest of the country . I read this very quickly and plan to re-read Forty years of Murder which is Professor Keith Simpson's autobiography
Turned out better than I thought it would. This is a true story of Molly Lefebvre and how she learned the world of criminal forensics during WWII in London. She was asked by Dr. Keith Simpson to be his secretary and over the objections of friends and family, she went to work for him. Each chapter is its own story and the book is easy to read. I was amazed at how many of the crimes were solved using similar techniques that are used today.
Molly Lefebure becomes secretary to Keith Simpson forensic pathologist during the second World War in London.This book is her memoir of post mortem's, crime and hospital and prison cases as she followed Simpson around on his duties. The writing is so descriptive of the situations and environments faced that you can visualise and sense them with ease.It can be very gruesome in parts but then humorous also.A fascinating read for those interested in this period.
I can see why this has been ear-marked as a new ITV series although I can't see the subject matter giving Downton Abbey a run for its money.Miss L clearly considered her boss, the pathologist Dr Keith Simpson, as a complete hero.Enjoyable read although very dated in places, and overuse of the word 'sordid'! I wished she had gone into more detail about the 'sordid' things - they sounded very interesting........
Interesting premise, but ruined by the off putting narrator Molly Lefebure. A woman not so "ahead of her times" as her job might suggest, she expresses out of date views on gender roles, favouritism for the death penalty and an unsympathetic attitude towards murder victims; i.e.: "she was well accustomed to intercourse" speaking of a 15 year old.
I actually quite liked this book. Very Agent Carter-esque. I loved the author’s tone.
Certainly interesting. An interesting account of several solved murders. I liked her synopsis at the end, that she found motherhood more challenging, as indeed challenging it is.
This is a fantastic book. Interesting glimpse into a different era!
I thought it would have more of a narrative rather than each chapter being a different experience. So, did not finish.
But, it was also an extremely fascinating first hand account of life in London during the blitz, and more interestingly, behind the scenes of the nascent pathology industry that kept humming during the war years.
She was unfazed by the work and the reactions of men to her in the work, but at the same time she was unabashedly filling the role of the ultimate female secretary complete with fixed stockings, perfectly coiffed hair, and lipstick.
I'd like to think that later in her life she saw a greater role for herself in the world than a secretary, wife, and mother.
I very much enjoyed this book overall.
It was written in the 1950s and so some of her attitudes about certain topics feel "old-fashioned"--in particular, her lack of softness for the murderers.
I don't count this as a problem--just an interesting shift in treatment of topics in literature/media.
Nowadays I feel murderers are portrayed with much more complexity and, in some cases, even a degree of sympathy.
I listened to this book and the reader does a good job catching the matter-of-fact tone of the narrative.
The less anecdotal areas sometimes were a bit dry, but overall, an interesting memoir.
As the title suggest, the book is the true account of the activities of medical pathologist Dr. Simeon and his secretary Molly Lefebure (who is also the author of the book) ,during the Second World War . The book describes several murder investigations during this time and it is interesting to see who ordinary crime did not stop simply because there was a war on.  Overall the book gives the reader a fascinating insight into forensics during WWII in England and is a definitely a must read for these with a interest forensics from this period.
I found this book interesting, and well written, but my enjoyment was frequently derailed by the author's rampant slut-shaming. I get that it's probably historically accurate, but even so, there is something really grating about having to read an account of a woman who was strangled to death during a sexual encounter, which the author cavalierly dismisses as "an accident" for which the perpetrator should not be harshly punished. I feel like since the publisher went to the trouble of reprinting this book, they could have included some sort of foreword or notes or other acknowledgement.
MURDER ON THE HOME FRONT chronicles the work of the author when, during the war years, she was the secretary to Dr. Keith Simpson, who was a forensic investigator of homicides in and near London. There are some intriguing cases in this book but the latter third of the book seems to drag with more routine events. What the book does tell us, if we indeed needed reminding, is that violent, senseless crime is not a 21st Century phenomenon. Three stars
I bought the book after watching the tv series programme of the same name although both were totally different. I enjoyed the book some of the stories are really interesting especially the way they identified an unknown murder victim and some of the things during that time in history but have been rather horrific too
I received this book as an advanced reading copy from HarperCollins. It reminded me of "Foyle's War" only it was true. The author writes about her time as a secretary to a pathologist in London during World War II. Like "Foyle's War", murder doesn't stop just because there is a war on. The book was an interesting read.
