https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/378639.The_Many_Coloured_Land
Christmas 2010: I realised that I had got stuck in a rut. I was re-reading old favourites again and again, waiting for a few trusted authors to release new works. Something had to be done.On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award. That’s 35 books, 6 of which I’d previously read, leaving 29 titles by 14 authors who were new to me.While working through this reading list I got married, went on my honeymoon, switched career and became
It’s one of the six award winners I’d already read before starting this reading list and the opening novel in one of my all-time favourite series.The Galactic Milieu Trilogy and the Saga of the Pliocine Exile are (for some reason) usually viewed as two separate series, even though they contain significant shared characters and are set in the same universe within one continuous timeline (albeit a sort of figure-8 line what with the time-travel).
The sad news has motivated to review this book, which I haven't read in 30 years.I think it was Julian May who gave me the taste for mixing fantasy and science fiction.
This, excellent, series is set mainly in the Pliocene era of Earth, where miscreants from our distant future are exiled via a time portal.
They are a very eclectic bunch including a man who believes in Narnia and Aslan, a gay nun, a skilled thief who won't give up crime, all sorts.This is a time of woolly mammoths rather than dinosaurs, but the twist is that psychic aliens are there already and set to enslaving our exiles.
It won the Locus and was nominated for both the '82 Hugo and '81 Nebula, after all.I had this odd assumption that it was all fantasy from the bookcovers I'd known and from the comments I'd heard, and that's true as far as most of the story elements are concerned, but at its core, it's Hard SF with a huge dash of space opera, a truly epic amount of world-building in both the future and 6 million years in the past, with, of course, a lot of time-travel, and there's a truly epic amount of psi abilities, too.The story breaks a lot of long-established SF and Fantasy conventions for the time, focusing almost exclusively on being fun, fun, fun.
Like I said, it's all fun adventure the high-tech magical artifacts, winning epic battles in the deep past, and getting to know and love some very interesting characters who happen to be...
I read this back in the mid 80's, soon after I had finished all of  J.R.R. Tolkien's novels and  Stephen R.
It so intrigued me that I read the entire four book series in a week or two.
I eventually read the rest of  Julian May's works, but with less enthusiasm.
The Pliocene Epic was intriguing because it was a time travel science fiction story with psi powers thrown on top.
It sometimes felt like fantasy, with what seemed like magic, but you knew it was really science and mind powers behind it.
It makes for an interesting mix of personalities for May to work with for the rest of the series.I did love the Pliocene animals, of course, but there are also interesting aliens to deal with—refugees with much the same outlook as the humans who come to the Pliocene.
As a kind of throw-back to the 60s, there is a theme of psi powers (telepathy, telekinesis, etc.) featured in both the Tanu/Firvulag and in those future humans.In short, there are many interesting threads to follow and I will very much look forward to reading the second book, The Golden Torc.
Here she was perfect — her voices worked well with all of Julian May’s characters and the subtle humor.I only have one complaint about Blackstone audio’s version of The Many-Colored Land, and that’s that I’m dying to read the rest of this story and it’s not available yet on audio (and I’m not sure if it will be).
For me and, I suspect, many others, one of the things that makes SF uniquely fun is being dumped into a world that is far-future or otherwise alien and having to figure out how it all works and maybe how we got there from here: having culture/future shock and coming to terms with it as the book progresses.
That would have been much more fun.There are other problems: four of the people we are introduced to back in the future are just dropped about half way through - never to be heard of again, though supposedly returned to in the inevitable sequel.
it was marvelous revisiting and once again being captivated by such a powerful novel and idea: that a mixed group of humans can be sent back in time to the Pliocene era, hoping for a fresh start and the opportunity to shed some heavy baggage.
Dense but powerfully written with some marvelous characters - those imbued with hope, despair, courage and cunning - you invest in them and their adventures.
The sense of place, of a time at once historically specific and yet only ever imagined is so well conceived.
I couldn't put it down the first time and went and read everything written by May as a consequence.
Really enjoyable mix of fantasy and sci-fi. Takes a bit of patience as it is quite slow to begin with and as it over 30 years old has an older vocabulary and style. I will trying to source a new copy of the second book.
The Many-Coloured LandThis is one of the possible starting points in an enormously complex epic covering four thick volumes set mostly in the Pliocene and four more set in something recognisably parallel to our present and near future.
This (along with the general pressures of modern living) causes problems for some humans, some few of whom are able to escape through a one-way time gate to Earth some six million years in the past, where we meet more aliens, also psi-enabled, but socially distinctly primitive/barbarian.
As some of our human time-travellers also acquire psi ability, life becomes highly adventurous, in ways that were not, at the original publication date, familiar from anyone else's work.On the good side, this is inspired and different.
Very original and entertaining, good start to a series.
They're all cast and mini-series-ready in my head if she changes her mind and ever wants my input.The book starts in the future when humans have populated various planets in the universe and come to peaceful understandings with other beings in the Galactic Milleau.
She wrote it as an opera, and the music, which I turned into a playlist, is mainly operatic in nature: http://open.spotify.com/user/paisleym...One thing that bothered me a little about the series was that the author introduced what seemed like magic into what I thought was going to be a story steeped in science.
The scope of this saga spanning eight novels is staggering.
Epic conflict rages between ancient races, and the future destiny of man is decided.
The initial four books make up The Saga of Pliocene Exile.
* The Many-Coloured Land * The Golden Torc * The Nonborn King * The AdversaryThese can be read as a standalone series, but who would want to stop there?The “bridge” book deals with first contact and the emergence of humans with “supernatural” powers such as telekinesis.
The settings, especially in Exiles are fabulous.Unfortunately, the US covers are beyond awful, but don’t be put off by that.
This first book in the series sets up for much intrigue to come, as we follow eight of the time travelers all of whom start to exhibit varying degrees of latent ability that developes as they spend more time in the land.As time goes on will they be albe to team their abilities and overthrow the Tanu overloads?Unfortunately, as happens in most SF series.
It was so dull by book III: The Nonborn King, that I had left it at the auto dealership, and not even realized it until a month later.However, I still consider 'Many-Colored Land' an epic novel, and a Must read for all SF/Fantasy fans
Knowing there are so many books I'll never get to, I don't typically read books again, but I like to allow myself one book a year or so to indulge the urge to go back.Ever since the ill-fated TV show Terra Nova hit the air, I have been bitterly reminded of Julian May's enjoyable Pliocene Exile series.
Thoughts of reading it again tickled in the back of my brain for nearly a year, until I finally relented and dug up a copy of the first book in the series, The Many Colored Land.May's series had everything I loved as a reader in my late teens--epic scope, SF grand adventure, a huge cast of characters, and writing that didn't "talk down" to its readers.
Grandioser Einstieg in eine großartige TetralogieDas vielfarbene Land ist der erste von vier eng verbundenen Bänden aus dem sogenannten Pliozän-Zyklus von Julian May. Die Romane heißen: 1.
Zu allem Überfluss gibt es noch einen dritten Mitspieler: eine weiter Gruppe von Außerirdischen, die gemeinsam mit den Tanu ankam aber seit jeher mit diesen in Todfeindschaft lebt, letztlich aber den Menschen auch nicht sonderlich wohlgesonnen ist.Der erste Teil ist sprachlich wunderbar gelungen.
Die Entwicklung der Charaktere kommt ebenfalls nicht zu kurz.Zusammenfassend kann man also sagen: Erstklassige Idee, wunderbarer Erzählstil, viele Details, soziokulturelle Betrachtung und sich entwickelnde sehr tief gezeichnet Personen.
I struggled through the first third of the book bored out of my mind as she introduces too many characters, seemingly unrelated and goes into their background story which I don't care about and just confuses me,plus 1 set of aliens seemingly unconnected with the rest of the story and finally 1 set of preshistoric humans who also seem unrelated.
The fact that this group of people was taking a one way time gate back to the prehistoric past was an interesting concept.
So my suggestion to those interested is to skim the beginnning (you can always go back & read the character's backgrounds after you know who is who).
I had had this recommended to me by a visitor to my site several years ago.The story started off with a great premise: People who have become disenchanted with life in 2030 elect to start a new life in 6000 B.C., thanks to a newly discovered portal.
Actually, the portal is built bysome scientist based on a newly discovered phenomenon of magnetic conduits through the earth's crust.Or something like that.So, you take a strange cross-section of characters from the near future, and throw them through a time portal (a one-way trip, that is), and to their surprise, Earth is inhabited and ruled by humaniod alien refugees.Depending on the pioneers' characteristics, they are assigned to classes of life, be it slaves or concubines, or privileged members of society, of course under rule of the aliens.Now as I write this, I'm wondering why I want to give up after the first book.
If I never encounter the word milieu again it'll be too damn soon.
Seriously, someone please do a word count on how many times milieu comes up in this book.
Here's the short of it, a great idea that was bungled.
What does it say when the best part of this book was when they got their Pleistocene equivalent to a cat.
Yes, a cat.
But it's from the Pleistocene so it's got to be a really nifty Pleistocene cat, right?
Nope, it's a cat.
So read between the lines and figure out what I'm saying if I think the best part is the cat.
When I read it back in 1982 I got the same sense of thrill I received when I first read Phillip Jose Farmer's To Your Scattered Bodies Go; that I was beginning a journey to somewhere I never been.
May is no Farmer.
While starting out beautifully, the novel gets bogged down with too many characters and too little development.
It is like the author knows he need to stretch out the idea to three novels and isn't sure he is going to have the ability to do it.
But it isn't a bad novel, just an average one.
Eight characters with various motives travel back in time to the Pliocene era to start afresh.
In fact, he loved this series so much, he ordered it through a special library program and paid the shipping for me, just so I could read it.
In the exact sentence when two characters agree to travel back in time, I suddenly understood what all these people had in common: they all wanted a fresh start in the Pliocene.
It wasn’t my favorite thing ever, but I’m going to continue reading because my friend is ordering them for me (hah, free books?
It wasn't a particularly character-driven novel, nor was it a romance, comedy, post-apocalypse, or space opera.
At first, I thought the novel was a little slow, and that it would have been better to have omitted Part I.
And while the writing at times seemed overburdened with scientific nomenclature, phrases from other languages, and geographical references to France, I was regularly smiling and nodding at May's perfect word choices: adorned with spikes and knobs and other decorative excrescences Excrescences!
It has been a long time since I've seen a story come together so well and so enjoyably.
This is a creative, action-packed book that truly encompasses both scifi and fantasy in a beautiful way.Since this is the first book of the series, it takes a bit to set the plot up and get to know the characters.
May spends the perfect amount of time familiarizing the reader with the future world, as well as the people who are choosing to leave it.
Readers looking just for futuristic hard scifi might be disappointed at how much of the book takes place in the ancient past, but those who enjoy scifi and fantasy will delight at the mixing of the two.Check out my full review.
This allows Julian May to create a world that has more in common with a fantasy novel than the typical scifi, and without having to worry about most time travel paradoxes.
She also limits the level of technology - the aliens can use technology, but are less adept at creating it (have you designed and built a cellphone recently?)The characters are introduced with what I think of as the PD James method (eg, The Murder Room) wherein characters are introduced with a little back story that usually consists of some combination of a short tableau and exposition.
The time traveling characters are a mixed bag of unstable personalities and more down to earth types - typical casting for any reality show.
Originally published on my blog here in June 1998.The Many Coloured Land is the first of Julian May's Exiles series set in the Pleistocene, and was one of my favourite speculative fiction books in my teenage years.
In the wilds of Provence, a portal has been successfully set up, allowing one way travel to the Pleistocene era six million years before the present day.
(Humans are yet to evolve; until the exiles began coming through the portal, the aliens had used the semi-intelligent ramapithecines as servants, controlled through the power of their minds amplified by metal torcs.)The remainder of the book concerns the different adaptations made by the travellers to this condition.Why is the book so good?
But hey, I had to start somewhere.Firstly, we’ve got a glorious exploration of the Pliocene era and how the continent of Europe has shifted in the intervening millions of years, and a bestiary of strange and exotic animals that form the evolutionary ancestors of present day fauna.Second, May posits an origin for some of the oldest myths of Sidhe, seelie and unseelie in the advanced aliens, with psychic powers so advanced they might as well count as magic, all described with a tone that shifts effortlessly from poetic to modern and ironic sensibilities when called for.Third, the characters themselves are a delight to read.
So, despite these factors -- and despite the fact that I'm still not a huge fan of time-travel stories -- I do plan on reading at least the next book.Random interesting factoid: I had to laugh when I read a description of Mount St. Helen's "symmetrical peak" (in a scene before the characters go back in time) -- obviously written before the eruption.
2013 is rather a special year for me, as it marks 25 years since I was introduced to the Saga of the Pliocene Exiles by Julian May. These books, along with their sequels "Intervention" and the Galactic Milieu trilogy, quickly became, and have remained, my favourite books.
For those who know the books, 2013 is also the year of the Great Intervention.This first book of the first series needs to be an introduction to a very large cast of characters.
It is, without doubt, one of the great, sweeping, deeply researched, and hugely ambitious works of fiction that has been produced.
Extremely enjoyable!
The Many Colored Land had everything I like in a nice pulp science fiction book.
I won't list all of those things, because they would be spoilers, but the ones I can list are a sense of urgency and importance among the protagonists, a tiny bit of moral ambiguity among the antagonists, solid justifications of important character behavior and motivation and a varied cast.
In addition, there's a quasi-academic hook in the prehistoric anthropological and mythological hints scattered here and there.
I cannot wait to read the rest of the books in this series.
I am going back to reading that right now!
This is one of the great science fiction series.
And sadly, it appears to have been cannibalized by Terra Nova.
In any case, I loved this novel and I think the other three after it are just as fantastic, in different ways.
May is one of the few writers who can take you into the minds of so many different characters and keep the story going across several subplots and plots.
I absolutely loved this from the first time I read it, and I re-read it about once a year.
They hold up, these novels.
May will, I think, be vindicated over time.
