https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77111.The_Empire_Strikes_Back
Star Wars at its best!!! I have bought the Omnibus edition with the three original “Star Wars” movie novelizations but I’ve chosen this edition to make a better focused review of each single book. ONCE PERFECT, THERE IS LITTLE TO ADD It wasn’t a surprise that there are few relevant additions to this novelization, since you have to admit that Empire Strikes Back is Star Wars at its best and even good ol’ Georgie couldn’t add much to the Special Edition of the film, just a couple of CGI brief sce
It wasn’t a surprise that there are few relevant additions to this novelization, since you have to admit that Empire Strikes Back is Star Wars at its best and even good ol’ Georgie couldn’t add much to the Special Edition of the film, just a couple of CGI brief scenes, to justify the existence of a special edition of that superb film.However, certainly there are some changes here and there in the novelization, since it’s normal that during actually making the film, there are last minute modifications or special effects troubles and the assigned writer isn’t informed on time to make the adjustment on the prose novelization as well.Sooo……once again, if you passed the last 40 years or so, frozen in carbonite, and you hadn’t watched the film, please be warned that you may find some spoilers ahead……the novelization started already on Hoth with Luke and Han, instead on space with the Imperial Starfleet.
True to the film.After there triumphant battle with the empire, the rebels have established an outpost on the freezing planet of Hoth.
The epic pursuit leads Han and Leia to the planet of Coruscant where they team up with an old friend of Han's named Lando Calrissian.
Good and bad happen in this epic tale.
But I'm sure you already knew that 😉Another great book.
Written almost in the form of a screenplay this book is true to the film in nearly every aspect.
I do believe however that the book came first.
Description: Luke, Han, and Princess Leia's story didn't end with the destruction of the Death Star—it continues in The Empire Strikes Back.
Though they had won a significant battle, the war between the Rebel Alliance and the Empire had really just begun.Now, several months later, the Rebels had established an outpost on the frozen wasteland of Hoth.
But even on that icy, backwater planet, they could not escape the evil Darth Vader's notice for long.
Soon, Luke, Han, Princess Leia, and their faithful companions were forced to flee, scattering in all directions—the Dark Lord's minions in fevered pursuit!Mark Hamill’s tribute to Carrie Fisher: She ‘shattered’ the mold
Pretty good for what it was, though I still think modern-day sci-fi writers should write new novelizations of the original trilogy, considering how much more we know about the Star Wars universe since books like these were published.
"Adventure, excitement...A Jedi craves not these things"Luke Skywalker, Han Solo, and Princess Leia are on Hoth with the main Rebel base.
Luke feels like the young, eager, beginning Jedi; Han is a perfect rogue; Leia is a really strong character (I really appreciate this, as women in science fiction get bad rap for being a sex object and not much else).Glut also gives an idea of how much time transpires in The Empire Strikes Back.
Other than changing Yoda's color from green to blue, having Hobbie crash into General Veers' AT-AT, and giving a more specific timeline for Luke's training and Han and Leia's travails in the Falcon, there is no difference from the movie, no deleted scenes, nothing notable or outstanding.
As with the novelization of Star Wars: From the Adventures of Luke Skywalker, this story didn't give us any new details that we haven't seen in the movie. What we do get is more detail into Han's mind and a bit more detail into Luke's training with Yoda. The writing was fairly evocative, really got me into the story, and set up some images that I hadn't noticed from watching the movie. It was a quick and enjoyable read, that I wound up sharing with my young Star Wars loving son.
Gera knyga, kai paimi ją į rankas ir suvalgai to net nepajausdamas. Nors rašytojas kitas, tačiau malonumas ne ką menkesnis. Visa intriga tik auga. Nauji Luko, Lėjos, Solo bei robotų nuotykiai. Pasipriešinimas nesnaudžia, kaip ir Veideris. Jis suranda jų bazė ir atakuoja. Lukas bei kiti stengiasi laimėti laiko, kol avanportas bus evakuotas. Tuo tarpu Lėja ir Solo kiek aiškinasi savo santykius visos kebegnės epicentre, kaip ir vos veikiančiu "Sakalu" mėgina pasprukti nuo Veiderio. Puslapiuose tiesiog atgija matyti kadrai, atrodo, jog užrašytas žodis papildo filmą ir atvirkščiai. Nepaprastai skanu, jog norisi dar
Han Solo is on his way to pay off gangster Jabba the Hutt his payment while being chased by the Imperial Fleet, but due to some damage to the Falcon's Hyperdrive, they can't go very far, so they have no other choice but to land at the closest system, Bespin, Cloud City, to meet with Han's old friend Lando Calrissian, who previously owned the Falcon, but lost it to Han.Luke travels to Dagobah which turns out to be a deserted swamp land to meet Yoda.
"This one I have watched a long time.
All his life has he looked away...to the horizon, to the sky, to the future.
A Jedi craves not these things!""For my ally is the Force.
And a powerful ally it is.
Life creates it and makes it grow.
Luminous beings we are, not this crude matter."So many amazing things happen in this story that we all know and love!
Luke meets the mysterious and wise Yoda and begins his Jedi training.
Luke is forced to face the truth about his father...and so on and so forth.
Really good. My latest literary reading project is to read the 'Star Wars' novelizations, and this one is great. Star Wars, Episode IV: A New Hope by George Lucas and Alan Dean Foster kicked it off, and that book threw in a bit more character analysis and vocabulary description. This one stuck a little more to the on-screen parts of the movie, but that's not necessarily a bad thing. Just a lot of fun, and Donald Glut has definitely done this series justice.
It was a good read, but it didn't left me completely satisfied.I enjoyed the first quartet of it a great deal, but it was all kind of a fall from there. Especially I felt like Luke's character wasn't nearly as well written as by Foster in A New Hope.I still enjoyed it, but it wasn't special.
This book added so much to the movie that several scenes were made to be understandable once I read the novelization.
But I don't think it'd be much fun."Like oh my fucking gods, if this isn't the best example of less is more I've ever seen then I don't know what is.
Get used to hearing about it.)[Leia falls into Hans arm while aboard the Millenium Falcon.]"Why, Princess," he said, pleasantly surprised, "this is so sudden."At that, she began to pull back.
Like it's fucking obvious he wants to hold Leia and kiss her and then it's all romantic and then he ruins it for no reason???
I like it in the movie better where they kiss each other, rather than having "this time she didn't resist" pointed out to me.
It is implied that Luke is longer on Dagobah than apparent but the times still don't add up.Still, his training is an interesting take on the Hero's Journey and reminds me why Luke Skywalker is my favourite character in the series - he grows from a farmboy to a Jedi knight and along the way he feels hopelessness and anger and insecurity and he learns to overcome them.
But this is Star Wars, this is a world where "Wormie" can become "Commander Skywalker" - that's what's so great about it (I couldn't help feeling strangely proud every time I read those two words - "Commander Skywalker" - God, I'm such a sap for Luke).
I find it somewhat boring, which is crazy because people overwhelmingly rate ESB as nearly their favorite Star Wars movie!
I'm not sure what other people are seeing that I'm missing, especially given how much I love ANH and ROTJ.That said, this book is literally a slightly meatier screenplay of the ESB movie, except that:• Yoda is blue???• When Leia says "I love you" Han doesn't say "I know," but rather the original script's longer line.Other than that, there's literally nothing in this book that couldn't be more enjoyably experienced by watching the movie.
This was an alright novelization as all novelizations of movies go,in fact this was better done than A New Hope novelization which didn't add much to the story and was also only ok.So, why does this book get four stars?
They were very well written and a lot more was added to Luke's training than what is shown in the movie.
As someone who can really appreciate training montages, this one resonated very well with me.
Excepting that everything else was just ok, you can expect the kind of cheesy and corny writing that was lot common then in the 70's and 80's in this book.
Definitely a lot better than the last one. The writing is more to the movie this time and nothing is changed. It's not a 10/10 noveliation though but i still enjoyed it. And i'm not doing a review on the movie. Everybody know's it and everybody loves it.I give it 8/10
It is the ability for a sequel to jump into the character's lives without needing a description for each of them; but more than that it is the drastic changes that Luke Skywalker must go through that makes him into a Jedi.
Even at the end of the book it is Luke Skywalker's friends that save him from falling off of cloud city.
Luke only goes to cloud city to save them, he is not ready to face Darth Vader but it is the qualities of a true protagonist that shine through as he jumps in his X-wing.
“I'd rather kiss a wookie!” The war between the Rebel Alliance and the Empire continues in the Empire Strikes Back. The Rebel Alliance has set a secret base on the planet Hoth, but soon they were forced to flee, scattering in all directions. Luke going to the Dagobah system to become a Jedi, but he soon finds out it's not that easy. Han and Leia are being forced to move to a different planet, trying to outrun Darth Vader's minions. When Han and Leia are held captive, Luke has to come to rescue
Luke going to the Dagobah system to become a Jedi, but he soon finds out it's not that easy.
Han and Leia are being forced to move to a different planet, trying to outrun Darth Vader's minions.
We even got to know how Han thought about Leia.
How Luke is so full of energy and so ready to take on the Dark Lord, but when he finds out about Darth Vader being his father, he gives up.
Luke is unprepared and hasn't had that much training like his father.
It was a bit over-simplified in some places, but it's good for young readers.
I love how Luke, a young, energetic, ambitious young man is ready to take on the Dark Lord, one of the most powerful Dark Forces alive.
When Vader tells Luke he is his father, he is pulling a powerful weapon out of nowhere.
It's a story of Luke's defeat, and there's nothing that builds character better than defeat and failure.
It is a point of growth, and when he barely survives, it puts him in a place to truly prepare.
He learned and grew from his failure.
It is a bit hackneyed, and on paper it betrays the film's wobbly timeline (primarily in the second act with how compressed Luke's training is while running concurrent with the other heroes running about during a short stretch of time), yet a lot of his two-fisted prose gave a nice pulpiness to the adaptation which made it fun if not exactly good.
The most interesting thing I can say is he gives you a glimpse of what this story could have been like had it still been played in the tone and style of the first film as opposed to the grimmer, more operatic style they ultimately went with.
A very excellent adaptation of the movie.
I really enjoyed the author's writing style.
That's saying a lot, because a lot of people say Empire Strikes Back was the best of the Star Wars movies.
As for me, Empire was not my favorite of the Star Wars movies.
That's because the book was so good, it really spoiled the movie for me.
The book went into so much more descriptive detail.
The movie was too fast-paced, summarized things too much.
I especially enjoyed the chapters covering the events on Hoth and Dagobah.
I liked this better than the New Hope novelization, I think. Like that one, it doesn't really add much at all to the movie, although this one had more noticeable changes from the script (which this was based on) and what ended up in the movie. (view spoiler)[Han doesn't say, "I know!" (Still doesn't say, "I love you, too," though. Jerk.) (hide spoiler)]
I read this ages ago, when I was a kid living in Middletown, NY. Checked it out in some library. Little did I know how much I would come to love this movie. To say it's influenced me and my writing would be an undersratement.
Adaptación literaria de la clásica Star Wars V: The Empire Strikes Back. Debo admitir que es mi película favorita de la primera trilogía. Disfrute bastante esta lectura y la acompañé con la Banda Sonora del film.
What a sentimental book for me. I loved this franchise so much and this was the first book that I ever bought on my own. Back then I was really into movie adaptations (Raiders of the Lost Ark, Scarface). I'm a voracious reader and this book started it all.
I wish I read this book first before the movie because I saw all the twists coming. What! Darth Vader is his father! Nooooooooooooooooooooo.
Admit to being a recovered star wars junkie. I now see the acting was kinda cheesy, tho the Princess Leia/Han Solo kiss in the Millennium Falcon was the swoon-worthy moment of my adolescence.
One of my fav. all time movies, so i just had to read the book! Very good, and funny!!!!!!=)
I love the story and I really love the ending.
