https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/776153.Truth_Restored
The LDS church gives people a very sanitized version of its true history.

Love this little book. It contains a sweet story from Church History of my fourth Great-grandfather, Elijah Fordham, being raised from the dead by God's Prophet of the Restoration, Joseph Smith. A modern-day miracle.
This is a great short history of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. As a member of the LDS faith, in just a few pages I covered a years worth of Sunday school lessons and the format was great. Often we talk about many of these events as isolated discussions, but it is valuable to go back and put them in context with a brief history such as this. I picked up a number of tidbits, and am glad I added this to my end of year blitz to hit my book reading goal for 2017.
This is a good book for people that are either new to the LDS faith are people who are just curious and want to learn a little more about the LDS faith. This book does covers the restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ and the history of the beginning of the LDS religion. It does not go into much depth on the subject matter are really is just laying the foundational knowledge.
Poco puedo agregar de esta obra magnifica sobre la historia de la Iglesia. El libro del Pdte. Hinckley es un clasico de la literatura mormona. Una obra breve y poderosa sobre la restauracion. Con mucho enfasis en los primeros años y en la experiencia de los pioneros.
Interesting but short apologetic on the early history of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints.
It took a long time for me to read this book, but that was not the fault of the author. I just put it aside for too long. I learned a lot of historical details from reading this book.
Wonderful short history of the Church!!!
It talks about how the mormons were persecuted and driven out of their homes in almost every city they prospered in.
The way to Utah wasn't easy for them.
Just like the Indians were forced from their land Mormons were forced from theirs.
During that time Missouri made it legal to kill Mormon's.
It said in the book For 137 years, it was technically legal to kill a Mormon in Missouri.
I soon came to realize that it's kind of like the same reason why Americans along with many other nations hate or "Dislike" Muslims or those that are apart of the Islamic faith.
As a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, I found this to be a spiritually uplifting book as well as a quick read.
It tells of important events in church history, and as the title indicates, focuses on events of the Restoration.For those not aware, restoration refers to our belief that Jesus's church was restored to the earth after a period of "falling away" or apostasy...
for example some of the very things which caused Martin Luther to protest, like the selling of indulgences.
My understanding of the restoration has lead me to revere people like Martin Luther and William Tyndale...
It came with Our Heritage the same year we were studying the Doctrine and Covenants.
It gives the fluffy cute version of church history, and at the time I had no patience for that.
Truth Restored, however, (which, as an aside: the book I was given does not even list the author.
Hinckley until years later) gave a fair description of the history.
I read the whole thing and loved it.I whole-heartedly recommend it to every member of the church (and I'm sad that they use Our Heritage with the D&C lesson book instead of Truth Restored).
I liked this book.
It told of the restoration of the gospel on earth, and the trials the pioneers and their families had to endure.
The second half of this book mostly focuses on important gospel principles.
There is an index of songs and notes in the back of the book.
If you are a member of my church, this will interest you very much.
It still might interest you if you want an abbreviated history of the Latter-Day Saints and what their gospel doctrine is.
Note: This is not the way I would learn of the church.
Believe it or not, I found that I was bored one night (not that I didn't have anything to do, just that I didn't want to do any of it), so I headed to the bookshelf and "Truth Restored" caught my eye. I hadn't realized it was written by President Hinckley. It was wonderful to read about the history of the Church, and it kind of started me on a Church history kick. It is really fascinating. Although I already new much of the information, there were many bits of information that were new to me. I really enjoyed it.
I have read this book numerous times. It is one of my go to books as I read my scriptures. Every year I try to read about various aspects of the Book of Mormon and the Doctrine of Covenants. While reading these, I find myself falling back trying to form a more cohesive understanding of the scriptures and the doctrine of the LDS religion.
I read this when I was either investigating the LDS Church or shortly after I joined, I don't remember which. It was my real introduction to Church History. I found it very interesting. At the time I didn't know much about Gordon B. Hinckley. Little did I know at the time that he would go on to lead the Church as one of it's greatest leaders of the century...
Now that I have listened to the Bio of President Gordon B. Hinckley and realized what an integral part he played in bringing the Church out of obscurity, I have an even greater sense of just how enlightened this account is of the Restoration of the Gospel by a backwoods farmboy chosen to be a prophet.
This is nearly all familiar history, though there were some things I didn't know, but President Hinckley has such a way with words. This is very much worth reading, and remembering what a remarkable time this was (and still is!). Makes me miss his Conference talks :)
I liked this book because it was really informative about The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter day Saints. I learned things that I hadn't known before. It is a really good reference.
Too short for my taste. Lots of important history left out. As a quickie overview, it's fine.
That is true!
really good book
Short. Sweet. True.
I know I liked this book, but it wasn't the most memorable read. Even a week or two after I read it I was having trouble remembering the specific historical information it presented.
It's been a while since I read this book, but I really liked it.
I didn't know Pres. Hinckley wrote this book! Do they have it listed right? In any case, I read this on my mission and loved it, of course! It gives very detailed accounts of the Restoration.
Great read on the steps and events of the restoration. A very comprehensive and wonderful read on the restoration.
I love the gospel, it is amazing reading books like this on my mission only confirmed my faith in it.
rather simplistic. Perhaps he needed to keep it short. No real explanation of certain doctrines. Other details were new to me. There are probably better texts out there.
It was not as detailed as I was expecting.
