https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25733983-lab-girl
Science has taught me that everything is more complicated than we first assume, and that being able to derive happiness from discovery is a recipe for a beautiful life. While it may be a beautiful life in many ways, it has not been an easy one. Anne Hope Jahren is a geobiologist currently working at the University of Oslo. This represents a bit of homecoming, as her ancestors emigrated from Norway to Minnesota. Her father was a science teacher at a community college. She writes about having the
In this case Hope Jahren's personal journey begins with her being a very science-focused kid, then offers a brief look at her school experience.
We follow her from grad student to doctorate, from California to Georgia, to Norway, to Hawaii, building labs, working in the field, blowing things up (not on purpose), slogging through industrial strength muck, being temporarily deformed by a serious overexposure to poison ivy, and other fun adventures.
One of the wonderful things about Lab Girl is that Jahren includes short chapters on biology, things like the importance of sugar to life and how plants are the only things that can make it from inorganic ingredients.
I have a new crush on 'both' Hope Jahren, ( Geochemist and author of "Lab Girl), and Hope's lab partner, Bill!!!I'm moved - inspired - speechless - breathless- ( teary-eyed throughout this entire reading experience).
Every tree we've planted - front and back yard - has a very emotional history.
Our tree --'Uncle Louie' -- wasn't much taller than me when we first moved in ( after Uncle Louie planted it) over 30 years ago --- today is so BIG...
LAB GIRL just excites me!
it never filled my heart the way - specifically plants - does for Hope Jahren.
I knew what was happening as I pulled on the root, seeing the main taproot, the one my tree had grown straight down and spent it's lifetime trying to maintain.
My tree had suckers, green shoots coming from the runners, still living, still choosing life, even though its main source had died.
I'll never look at a tree the same way after reading this book.
She is always in the pursuit of knowledge, and their travels take them all over the world.
Our destruction of our planet is truly heartbreaking, but Jahren does not lecture or make this the main focus.
I can't possibly describe what Lab Girl is about or review it with any linearity, because this is a tangled web of strands of memoir, natural history, philosophical musings and random thoughts.
There's something unconventional and potent about how she phrases her story and thoughts.A note on the audio: Jahren reads it herself.
But her voice does convey a lot of emotion.Thanks to a few GR friends and their enthusiastic reviews.
No 300-page book should have an audiobook lasting 12 hours.
There was no need for the author to pause for two seconds after every sentence.
I didn’t care much for the scientific facts, but I sure enjoyed the passion in the author’s voice.
I considered giving up on it multiple times, due to the length of the audiobook, but I listened to it while browsing the web and choosing my courses for next fall, which wasn’t bad.
(Is there really anyone who can pick their courses in five seconds??) Also, the narrator’s voice is quite soothing.
3.5 When I first started reading this I was more interested in the chapters, which alternated with her personal story, on the trees and plants.
Loved her story too, her beginning passion for the sciences, her childhood and going with her dad to his lab, her first jobs which I found eye opening, and her wonderful long term friendship with Bill.
He would become her lab partner, the person she bounced ideas off of and shared triumphs and disappointments with.
The truly difficult work of starting a new lab, the constant quest for funding, grants and other studies.
Lab Girl is a beautifully written book about her life — her childhood in Minnesota with taciturn parents; how she developed a love of trees and plants; her early experiences in laboratory work; the ongoing struggle to get research funding; her battle with anxiety and depression; the longtime friendship with her lab partner, Bill; and how she eventually met her spouse and became a mother.
A few of these "tree chapters" were great, but I sometimes grew impatient with the plant and soil lectures and wanted to get back to Jahren's story, which I found more compelling.Overall, I truly enjoyed this book and would highly recommend it to anyone who appreciates a well-written memoir or who likes reading about the life of a scientist.
I don't know if Hope Jahren likes baseball, but I found her writing utterly exquisite.As the daughter of a father who was a physics and earth science teacher and a mother who instilled in her a love for literature, Jahren charmingly blends both those passions in this remarkable memoir.
As I was listening to this particular part of her story, I found myself crying and overwhelmed by her willingness to share these painful experiences.I have never heard a scientist of any field, speak so passionately and lyrically about what they do as Jahren does here.
Also, I think most of us can be so lucky to find a friend as loyal as Bill, Hope's lab partner.
Trees follow the standard advice given for any extended travel within a rustic setting: pack carefully."I came away, after reading Lab Girl, awed and delighted.
I learned about willow trees that "taught" others miles away how to ward off killing caterpillars, and plants that could live without water for years, just waiting to reawaken with rain, known as resurrection plants, "ugly and small and useless and special." When I look at the trees in my yard - and there are many- I realize that the three forty year old trees must have access to an aquifer I haven't been aware of, as have about a dozen tall trees the same age as these near me.
It said, “Lab Girl by Hope Jahren - THE BEST BOOK I HAVE READ IN A LONG WHILE – Buy it!” So I asked where it was and the gal behind the stacks ran off, returned, and placed it in my hand, “You'll love it I promise.” Her enthusiasm caused me to not hesitate and pay full retail on the spot.
Perhaps it will be called the “The Tao of Bill.” THIS IS ONE OF THE BEST BOOKS I HAVE READ IN A LONG WHILE – BUY IT!
What I think the author does best is simply conveying what it is like to have true passion for your work, a rare thing: “being able to derive happiness from discovery is a recipe for a beautiful life.” You don’t have to be a science type to enjoy this book.
Jahren might even inspire you to go plant a tree.Another favorite passage:“All the baffling things that arrived unwelcome with adulthood – tax returns and car insurance and Pap smears – none of them matter when I am in the lab.
A rare and emotionally engaging close-up look at the development and practice of science, its empowerment and challenges, and the ability of Hope Jahren to transform influences from her father and her questing personality into a successful career in fields that could be called eco-geology and paleoecology.
I actually wanted more about the science and her contributions, but that would impede the more substantial success this memoir has as a portrait of a partnership and marriage in work with Bill, a graduate student who became a lab manager, technician, and essential collaborator in all her research.
(For some reason I thought this was going to be a plant-centric  H is For Hawk, which was okay, but not a book I'd care to revisit.) Hope Jahren's lovely affirmation to the scientific world,  Lab Girl, is a must-read for anyone with even a passing interest in plants and trees and flora of all types.
How she took botanist vignettes (e.g. plants that sweat, hackberry husks made of opal, the South's kudzu infestation, Arctic soil) and interwove them into her own life of never-ending scientific inquiry is truly genius.
(Equally genius is her ability to make dummies like me care about botany and soil).
I really wish Dr. Jahren had confined herself to talking about her work, which was interesting and inspiring.
In my experience (having worked in R&D for over 25 years) women are judged on their merits as scientists.
Finding funding for academic research is a separate problem that affects scientists of both sexes.
I also disliked her implication that there’s only one kind of scientist that’s real and worthwhile -- the kind that lives and breathes the lab and always puts work first.
I’m not sure that makes you a better scientist, but it surely makes you a lonelier one.
It was pathetic when the administrator banned her from entering her own lab building when she was pregnant; she was probably the first--and maybe the last--pregnant woman ever to enter the lab building at the Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore.The book is also about a remarkable friendship between Jahren and her lab partner and best friend, Bill.
It is a testament to both of them, as Bill has some deep problems that are not quite asserted, while Jahren is manic depressive.This book deals with all the problems of a young woman who becomes an academic scientist.
I enjoyed Hope Jahren's Lab Girl.
Still, I wanted to like it more than I did.
Jahren's memoir follows her pursuits of science along with all the achievements and disappointments.
Another engaging aspect of the book is the complex relationship Jahren forms with a fellow student (now her lab manager), Bill.
That said, I really wanted to hear more about the science, about her actual discoveries rather than how she happened to move from this to that university.
I kept wondering when she was going to get to the science.
It did come, but that wasn't the point of the book.
My god am I a sucker for an emotionally resonant and movingly written literary memoir.
Clue 1. Happy, exuberant state.Clue 2. Read 290 pages in one sitting.Clue 3. Desire to tell everyone about book.Clue 4. No interest in picking up another book until euphoria subsides.Analysis? Yes, I read a fabulous book today. Hope Jahren combines the stories of her life with alternating and connected stories of the plant world to create a brilliant book. Five stars.
This is less a review than it is a caveat: My experience of “reading” the book was really more of a two star affair— however, I listened to it, and feel pretty confident that I would have enjoyed it more in the written word. The author reads the book herself, and during the parts that are supposed to be sad, she's reading in one of those choked-up/half-crying voices which is beyond annoying. But, what with lady scientist solidarity and such, I'm rounding up.
Hope Jahren's love of science comes through loud and clear in her memoir.
Her memoir chronicles her personal history and the challenges of running her own laboratory.
It also contains short chapters giving fascinating information about plants.Her lab manager, Bill, has been working with Jahren for twenty years, going with her as she changed jobs.
The chapters on plants are written at a level where most readers will pick up lots of interesting information, but not so technical that it's difficult to understand.Jahren also has a love of literature, and her memoir is not written like a dry science text.
Full disclosure: I knew Hope in high school, lost touch after graduation and reconnected 20+ years later (see? it's possible for good to come of Facebook!), so I'm not going to even pretend to be objective.But if were to pretend, I might point out that this book is about trees and science and love and sheer bloodymindedness and may or may not have made me cry.
In different parts it is the author's life story, a description of a deep and unusual friendship, the trials of being an academic and researcher, and a monument of her devotion to ecology and botany.
If the monkeypod tree at Manoa Road and Oahu Avenue were to be cut down, we could count the knots and see the buried scars of the hundreds of branches that it has lost during the last century of its life....Every piece of wood in your house - from your windowsills to the furniture to the rafters - was once part of a living being, thriving in the open and pulsing with sap.
It only touches upon the latest research on trees.The book begins by showing how the author’s Norwegian descent and relationship with her parents led her toward a career in research science.
The reader watches her emotional involvement, sense of responsibility and compulsion to do a good job grow as she through scholarships and hard work gets an education.
Any reader of this book will be gripped by the importance of research work to Hope.
Near the end of the book she travels with Bill to Ireland; we are told then that she had been to Ireland many times before!
This book contains little about contemporary plant research.
Hope Jahren's memoir is a fascinating insight into what it takes to be a successful research scientist in America today.
She describes the constant fight for funding and making do on a shoe-string, which will resonate with research scientists all over the world.
Throughout the book there are chapters on trees where she explains in fascinating detail what it is they need to grow and thrive.
Their platonic relationship and shared passion for their work has obviously been central to Hope's success and life and his encouragement has helped to buoy her up in the difficult times.
There's mention of Hope's schooling, her family, her friendship with Bill over 20+ years, her husband, her son, some interesting details of plants and trees, her labs.....but nothing about her work, research, lectures, scientific presentations, etc.
Although this is a memoir of her working life, there's very little of her work included.
I enjoyed the short chapters on plants and trees.
I found these very interesting and wish there had been more on this.I wasn't as interested in her personal life.
Hope comes across as rather whiny and woeful at times.
However, the stories of her son and husband are touching.
Jahren, a three-time Fulbright winner, has written a reader-friendly, relationship-centered sequence of stories about her experience as a paleobotany researcher.
The book is one of those rare fusions of science and humanity that many readers so often wish for but can seldom find.
At the same time, Jahren is clear about the difficulties of an academic scientist's life--getting grants, writing proposals, acquiring equipment, paying lab assistants, the necessity of moving on to better opportunities.
I wish the publishers had worked harder to come up with a title that better represents this story.
My first thoughts, this book is in a word, odd.
It is a memoir written by a bipolar paleobiologist and her Asperger’s like, one-handed best friend/lab assistant.
They stumble through the US and Europe trying to do good science.
The book is about three things.
1. Science: we learn about the scientific method, how a mass spectrometer works, and that trees have memory (all of which was much more interesting than I would have thought).
Despite her struggles, she becomes an award winning and accomplished scholar with her best friend by her side.
My final thoughts: this book is in a word, captivating.
If you are concerned it will not be scientific enough, there's enough interesting data here to sate you, though I did wish I learned more about Jahren's own research.The thing about this book, though, the thing that makes it one of my favorites of the year isn't just that Jahren gets lab life right, it's how skillfully she tells the stories of trees alongside her own story.
This book in the hands of a college student could be life changing.Some may find Jahren's story not interesting enough for a memoir.
I finished this memoir a few days ago and in trying to get my thoughts together for a review, I read what my GR friends said about the book, and I realized it's all been said and said so much better and eloquently than I could.So I'll just say I loved it.
I listened to the audiobook, read by the author , and she does an excellent job.
I'll never look at a tree the same and I now have even more respect for research scientists.Highly recommended.
Firstly i want to thank Elyse for recommending this book and letting me have a chance to read it :)Hope firstly began with her childhood and then suddenly make a jumb to her recent life (to introduce herself but kept it short) in lab with Bill (of course they can't be thought apart :)) It was nice in the beginning but after she met with Bill and they began to work together in her lab it's like everything fell into place and real story began.
