https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/880198.The_Polyglots
Mostly centered in the internationalized Chinese city of Harbin, the novel attempts to illustrate the wide range of nationalities present via individual characters and their mixed interactions.
(Not the reader, I'll guess.) The last quarter of the book is a welcome reprieve from the conflict of exotic-locale and no-detail-offered.
My only guess is that when you are young, you are drawn by the bright, the sparkling, the dramatic or clashing element, whereas it takes the remove of age, or of an intervening steam liner-- to provide the distance to observe the grander scheme.
No ha sido el tiempo demasiado justo con este escritor -medio británico, medio ruso-, capaz de retratar como muy pocos saben hacer las imposibles circunvoluciones del alma humana.
Sin embargo, gracias a la oportuna labor de rescate emprendida por la editorial Impedimenta, hoy día podemos disfrutar como es debido de una novela que cuenta con todos los ingredientes necesarios para haberse convertido en un gran clásico universal.
Ambientada en los convulsos años tras el final de la Primera Guerra Mundial, Los políglotas sigue los pasos de una peculiar familia belga que asiste desde los confines del extremo Oriente a su propia y demencial decadencia.
Вот и я о том же — у Набокова его английскость и американскость были благоприобретенными и наносными, а тут эдакий естественный меланж.Помимо всех этих языковых, стилистических и чисто литературных достоинств, зверинца причудливых персонажей и романной техники «Полиглоты» (как и «Тщета») — роман идей.
Паттерсон» и под заглавием «Нашествие варваров» (https://fantlab.ru/work158812), хотя откуда там что взялось, мне решительно непонятно.
Других следов этого удивительного артефакта советского перевода (как и переводившего его существа) мне обнаружить не удалось, так что буду признателен, если мудрые меня одернут и поправят.
Так что если все пойдет по плану, 2016-й станет годом возвращения Джерхарди на родину.
Correcta irónica novela inglesa de la que son deudores Waughn, Greene y tantos otros... aunque decir irónica es no decir nada. La verdad es que tampoco me apetece mucho hablar de esta novela. Es como si se adentrase en un sendero narrativo que otros siguieron pero que conduce a un punto muerto del que no sale nada.Es decir, está bien, pero también está bien no leerla. También está bien no haber oído hablar nunca de ella.Es como todo, como todas las novelas del mundo.Un inmenso ruido de fondo agradable pero cuya persistencia acaba incomodando.
But some is disappointing in a way that makes you wish you'd read a different book by the same person; The Polygots is disappointing in this more optimistic way.
But a Waugh-length novel with little plot can't really contain a Tolstoyan cast, so many of the incidents are uninteresting.
Captain GHAD's voice is by far the best part of the book: self-obsessed, ignorant, charmless, incompetent and immature, he replicates much of his second namesake's silliness, but is also quite wise in an 'out of the mouths of babes' kind of way.
So I'll keep an eye out for second hand Gerhardie, and recommend you do the same.
Gosh, this was a surprising and unusual book, and tough to decide what I think.
I love the way he sketches a person's character with the quickest of strokes: a line of dialogue, a mustache, a way of adjusting the Adam's apple.
And it's clear how much he loves them.I also enjoy the narrator's philosophizing and his general attitude toward life.
I think maybe that's one thing Gerhardie does unusually well throughout the book: comedy, tragedy, seriousness and levity are all fully enmeshed, never far from each other.
The liner Aquitania makes an appearance at the start, just as it was fleetingly sighted at the end of "Futility".Once again, we have an English narrator with family links to Russia, and lots of comically eccentric foreign relatives.
Along with "Antic Hay" and other early Huxley novels, this opens up possibilities and strikes new attitudes.How seriously we are supposed to take the narrator, and his utterly pretentious ruminations, is a delicate matter.
Gerhardie was reaching 30 when this came out, and the seriousness lies in the deaths and disappointments, not the undergraduate chat about the cosmos.
It’s more about the language itself than the actually story line, which was negligible at best, and that was a shame as far as I’m concerned.Still, it was okay I guess – not exactly gripping, but the writing itself was okay.
It’s the kind of book that, if you only read it casually, will be difficult for you to wrap your head around.
That said, I’m still glad that I read it because it’s always good to discover new authors, even if you don’t necessarily enjoy them.
Odd, dated, slightly snobbish feel to it over and above the intended irony.
Cross dressing auto-asphyxiating uncles, and generals fleeing the advancing Bolsheviks, tiresome flirtation and equally tiresome adultery with a cousin.
All human life is here but to me at least strangely dull.
There are amusing passages, clever aphorisms and a reminder of just how casual and common place racism and antediluvian attitudes to women and sex were amongst the literary "set" of the 1920's.
I was just curious and entertained enough to make it to the end...only to find it as flat and grey as the sea our arrogant, narcissistic and inconsistent narrator describes.
"Перевод" оказался отвратительной пролеткультовской поделкой, как можно было и ожидать. Внутри там фактически пересказ, текст сокращен на треть, если не на половину. Мерзкое предисловие "Виктора-Сержа" (проститута Кибальчича). Я благодарен Валере Вотрину за то, что прислал мне копию, конечно, но не стоит тратить время на то, чтобы искать этот раритет. Лучше дождаться выхода Валериного нормального перевода "Полиглотов".
I didn't enjoy this novel. Its voice and cast of characters weren't sufficiently charming to compensate for the lack of plot or even of a clear decision on the author's part of what kind of novel it is--postwar disillusion, string of comical anecdotes, philosophical meditation. Gerhardie wasn't attempting to be experimental--it seems that he just threw the book together by letting the mood he was in at the time dictate what he wrote. The result was self-indulgent and desultory.
Haven’t enjoyed a book as much in a long time.
Está bien escrito pero, seamos realistas, NO PASA NADA en todo el libro.
He tardado, hum, déjame pensar...
¡un año entero!
metiendo otros libros por el medio, hasta que por fiiiiiiiiiiiiiiin he logrado poner punto final a la historia de esa extravagante familia de personajes planos cuya caracterización (seámos benévolas, que es de humor, ejem) es repetir ciertas frases y coletillas.
Algunas reflexiones interesantes sobre la muerte, Dios, el amor, el Más allá, etc, por parte del protagonista aspirante a escritor, y mucho, pero mucho diálogo de besugos y viajes de un lado a otro, en tren, en barco, etc.
Started with interest but getting more and more bored by the ample repetitions of the characters. After the umpteenth 'I am a serious young man, an intellectual' on page 264 I closed the book. Enough time wasted on a story that's in my opinion neither profound nor quirky nor funny. Enfin, adieu!
ILiked it, both the characters and the humor
This was not nearly as humorous as suggested in its reviews. I found it uninteresting.
Hilarious and at times sad account of a Belgian family in exile in China. Extremely satirical and makes you feel like you're part of a loud, warm, dysfunctional family.
poorly written Haiku review :no.
Balancing satire, the absurd, and tragedy with the perfect light touch, The Polyglots was a delight. Praised and admired by many contemporary and famous writers (Evelyn Waugh, Graham Greene, HG Wells) in his day, Gerhardie seems to have slipped completely from modern consciousness. I am so glad I stumbled across him and I loved this book.
Una novela al inicio difícil pero conforme se avanza uno le agarra cariño a todos los personajes. Llena de frases memorables y lecciones de vida. Me divirtió, me entristeció y me sorprendió. Una obra inclasificable que vale la pena leer.
