https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/81940.Mastery
Tools for Mastery1. Maintain physical fitness2. Acknowledge the negative and accentuate the positive3. Try telling the truth4. Honor but don't indulge your won dark side5. Set your priorities6. Make commitments. Take action.7. Get on the path of mastery and stay on it George Leonard explains these in his touchstone book, Mastery. The more that I see attempted transformations at work I realize that a big problem is that 'we' don't have a clue about learning. We just aren't in the habit of big cha
Tools for Mastery1.
Maintain physical fitness2.
Acknowledge the negative and accentuate the positive3.
Try telling the truth4.
Honor but don't indulge your won dark side5.
Set your priorities6.
Make commitments.
Take action.7.
The more that I see attempted transformations at work I realize that a big problem is that 'we' don't have a clue about learning.
We just aren't in the habit of big change frequently.
As one that endured night school for almost 5 years I am coming at change from the other side.
The sense and purpose that the author claims are required for mastery are uncommon indeed.
An Aikido master on mastery...recommended by Shaikh Hamza Yusuf....If you have ever striven for mastery out of love, where you lose yourself in the practice and the practice, the devotional act of being is in itself its own reward...then you will love this book.It is a book that challenges the contemporary American ideal of the superiority of only climactic moments, that challenges instant gratification, and reveals a deeper, older, and more essential truth about life.
I have practiced martial arts for over 28 years, and it is only now, at age 40 when I am contemplating teaching others on a larger scale (perhaps) and as a duty to society at large, that I am finally completing a black belt certification process.
I practice daily out of the love for the arts that are my life.
He is the best in the world at what he does yet he continues to push forward on the path to mastery.George Leonard has taken this rarely practiced art and laid it out to us in a format so simple, most of us could read through it in a day or two.
Whether it’s your career, recreational sport or your family, to sincerely be outstanding, you must dedicate your life to one of mastery to experience real success.Golf is another example.
After all, experience and practice is all life really is, so you better start to enjoy it.By now we should all know that real success does not come quickly and in fact requires the utmost dedication.
Video review: http://www.bookvim.com/2009/06/master...---This book has become a classic.And rightly so.George Leonard draws from his mastery of Aikido to write a zen-like manual on how to master ANY skill.If you want to get good at something, or even great - don't read this book.
However, if you really want to master your craft - then you must read this book!.The book is divided in 3 blocks:1)An introduction into the most common approaches to learning a new skill: what Leonard calls the dabbler, the obsessive or the hacker.A pointer to the solution: falling in love with "the plateau".
George Leonard wrote this book for me. I am not joking. Every single word of it was meant for me. It was one of those books that manifest exactly at the right time in your life to teach you something of immense value. What I learnt from Mastery? To be a learner, you've got to be willing to be a fool. "Are you willing to wear your white belt?" My answer is: Yes. I am.
2. Success comes in spurts followed by large expanses of plateau; a practice for the enjoyment of the practice.3.
Practice (n) - something you have, something you are, something you practice on a regular basis that is an integral part of your life (pg 74) / "He does it just to enjoy himself."4.
What you already possess dwarves what anyone could ever give you; you are the culmination of amazing knowledge; "The best way to describe your total creative capacity is to say that for all practical purposes it is infinite." (pg 167)
"To love the plateau is to love the eternal now, to enjoy the inevitablespurts of progress and the fruits of accomplishment, then serenely to accept the new plateau that waits just beyond them. To love the plateau is to love what is most essential and enduring in yourlife."
However, Mr. Leonard's genuine commitment to Aikido and the years-long exposure to Zen philosophy and practice that afforded him make the first half of the book quite life-changing for the average Westerner.
Reading this book at this particular time felt like a drink of cold water in the desert for I have been thirsting after a practice that I could master.
After spending years in school environments, I've been feeling a bit let down and disoriented by the lack of something to accomplish on a day to day basis in the 'real world.' But Zen teaches that any little thing can be something to master, and that mastery is a way of thought, attitude, and life.
I was hugely disappointed with this book.Expecting great thing with the positive reviews.There are a few good points that i have contemplated, re-read and absorbed.But i felt the 90% of the content was dribble.
Just simply words to fill the page and expand the size of the book to 170 pages.For example there is an 1-2 pages wasted on explanation of how house hold air-condition system works in great detail?
3 pages dribble on mastering washing the dishes?
Or how about 4pages of dribble on how to master driving the car...."check the indicators are working, Make sure tyres are inflated”????
What this book isn't: A manual on how to change your life and be the person you've always wanted to be.What this book is: A set of rules inspired mostly by the sport of aikido to help you get started and hopefully keep you steadfast on the path of change and ultimately mastery.The author shares advice which if followed may be quite beneficial in any field. The change however will only come from within. Volumes of text may not have any influence on a person and a single phrase might be enough to change destinies.
The book is structured well, first telling you what Mastery is, then describing the tools needed to achieve it, and then describing the hindrances to achieving it.
The final chapter is a checklist of everything covered in the book.True, some elements of the book will seem obvious (find a good teacher) or already be known to you--I'm thinking of how he describes Mastery as the journey and not the goal--but it's good to have all this info in one place, like a brief book, to act as a reference.
It influenced my decision to get a qualified Mandarin teacher.
I finished the book in two afternoons, and I am by no means a fast reader.Leonard's insights about mastery may be simple, and we may "already know" many of them, but how many of us have internalized them?
Mastery requires us to change the way we approach these periods - which we usually think of as unimportant "in-between" time.
Leonard gives advice on how to embrace these plateaus, and identifies the many impediments that prevent us from persevering."Mastery" is great for reorienting your perspective on success and what it requires of you.
It's available to anyone who is willing to get on the path and stay on it—regardless of age, sex, or previous experience."George Leonard, Mastery p.5" The master's journey can begin whenever you decide to learn any new skill "George Leonard, Mastery p.6"This question, this moment of choice, comes up countless times in each of our lives, not just about tennis or some other sport, but about everything that has to do with learning, development, change.
The book outlines ways to think and processes and rules to delve into new things or to polish up old things and get back into them with dedication.
What this book does is strip away notions and barriers to learning, if you do it like this says.
I learned a lot reading this and for a older guy, I have always prided myself on keeping myself learning, and my child like lust for new things and learning experiences has always been something I enjoy.
To learn you must be a fool.
Lots to take home in this book and I am better for reading it!Danny
The author draws strong example from his days of teaching in military and Aikido.His writing is clear, concise and on point. Reading the book make me realize how much I have been wasted in this "modern" society.Keys:- Instruction. Find a good mentor- Practice. Needless to say- Surrender. Willing to give up what you have learnt to learn new things.- Intention. Mastery cannot be achieved with half-hearted measure- Edge: Know your limit
On the one hand this says nothing particularly surprising but on the other hand, it says much that matters. Its a short book, worth returning to when one feels the need for focus and personal direction. I love the notion of mastery, even though the reality is, as Leonard points out, one spends life working towards it rather than arriving. Nevertheless, it is useful to be clear about what one is working towards...
The @booksoftitans podcast did an episode on this book and I found it interesting. This book has nothing new I haven't heard before but it is a refresher to read about some of the foundational principles of mastery that still are applied today. It is a quick read that will strength most of your beliefs and knowledge on mastery.
This book is a quick read gem and brings to home what mastery is about and what it's not.
There are no shortcuts in the journey in mastery, nor there are magic pills or secret techniques.
The journey towards mastery is never ending and the "master" carries on doing the same thing.
In addition to loving the process, the mastery seeker must embrace the plateau and must not delude himself or herself of the expectation of a climax after another (sadly this utterly misguided perception is dominant in society).
Practice. Enjoy the process.
"People whose energy is flowing don't need to take a drug, commit a crime, or go to war in order to feel fully awake and alive"
The obsessive (doesn’t accept a plateau in performance but rather re-doubles the efforts and expects the progress to continue, this is self-detrimental as they don’t take the time to smell the roses but rather expect everything to come quickly and perfectly but this simply isn’t the case and leads to satisfaction and obsession, with in many cases limited results due to stress and over-work.Practice:Now we have put aside the traits of the alternative pathways we can look at the path of the master more closely.
While the author describes 5 keys to long-term success and fulfillment,as:1.
The process where what was difficult becomes both easier andmore pleasurable;2.
Long-term dedication to the journey - not the bottom line;3.
Gaining mental discipline to travel further on your journey;4.
Realizing that the pleasure of practice is intensified;6.
Knowing that you will never reach a final destination;8.
Being diligent with the process of mastery;9.
After you have reached the top of the mountain, climbanother one;11.
Being willing to practice, even when you seem to be gettingno where;12.
Being patient, while you apply long-term efforts;14.
Placing practice, discipline, conditioning and characterdevelopment before winning;18.
Actually listened to his lectures on Audible. Very very good - will listen to them again in the future I’m sure! Do not listen to them for a quick todo list, but to discover a new way of motivating/calming/grounding yourself and feel more at ease.
I loved the way it introduces the American consumerist society, that is so insistant on having "EXCITING", "PINNACLE" moments that having plain ol' good times seem so vanilla and passe.
Awareness is winning half the battle.
So, what's the answer, it's "Loving the Plateau".
There is so much pleasure there, but we are blinded by illusory desire and excessive expectation.I gave only three stars because the strategies on "loving the plateau" were more of mindsets to have rather than concrete Next Actions (David Allen's) style to adopt.
Which leaves the reader half-equipped on his path to Mastery.
This is a great book because it's short, concise, friendly, and practical.
It's a simple guide to mastery, only the parts you need to know about: keys to success, common tools and techniques, how to get energy to stick with it, and common pitfalls.The main concept is that mastery only exists in the present, and is a lifelong journey.
To be a master you live for practice and love the game.
There are no quick fixes — that mentality doesn't work in the long run and is eventually destructive to the individual and society.
The long road of lifelong learning and improvement is the better way.My favorite quote:"The essence of boredom is to be found in the obsessive search for novelty.
Long before the current swath of books trumpeting the 10,000 hour rule, this little-known book filled with sage advice seemed to have an intuitive grasp of the lessons that were about to enter pop psychology.
Probably one of the most important books I've ever read in my life, this book discusses both the habits that lead to mastery as well as the habits that can bog a person down before they ever get that far.
I remember instantly seeing myself reflected in the different learning curves discussed in this book and making the conscious choice to change my habits and work toward a lifelong goal.
Recommended to me from my golf instructor. A very short concise book of practical advice about learning new skills based on George's own experience taking up Aikido in his 40's and continuing it into his 70's. Suitable for me due to my own aging and reevaluation of life as I get older. Less about being superman and more about being persistent while challenging your own assumptions as you go, while setting yourself up as a life long learner (In my case of golf).Influences - Japan, Buddhism, counter-culture.
This is not a small book. It may have the potential to transform your life if you apply yourself to the principles of Mastery. It`s interesting how Leonard presents his book by simply walking you through it and presenting the content to you as a choice, rather than a do this, do that. Although this is a quick read, it`s also a practical piece of advice you can carry with you and re-read whenever you need. Highly recommended to all of humanity.
This is not a small book. It may have the potential to transform your life if you apply yourself to the principles of Mastery. It`s interesting how Leonard presents his book by simply walking you through it and presenting the content to you as a choice, rather than a do this, do that. Although this is a quick read, it`s also a practical piece of advice you can carry with you and re-read whenever you need. Highly recommended to all of humanity.
I love short books of excellence and this is one of them. The concept of mastery is different to many authors and with each person's interpretations your understanding. This book along with Robert Greene's book Mastery both are essential reading for life. This book combines a concise easy to understand the concept of mastery with interesting pictures and a compact package. To start your journey to understanding and achieving mastery start here and move on to Robert Greene.
The author talks about how to master a skill. He mentions about the fact that you spend more time on plateaus, sometimes even backsliding, then you do reaching the next level. He says that we must learn to love the plateaus and to enjoy the process. Love the art of practicing the skill and don't worry about the "results"...the results will take care of themselves.
