https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/770143.A_History_of_the_Christian_Church
A lot of the philosophy/theology coursework would have been easier, would have made more sense, if I had read Walker's History of the Christian Church or Kelly's History of Dogma beforehand or alongside the foundational texts.One of the fun things about general histories, particularly those which treat of matters never studied systematically before, is that you discover so much which is familiar.
This was the text book for a class on Church History while I was in college. Most of my text books I chose to sell back to the school or to other students, but this one I gladly kept. It is a wonderful book written on the history of religion and then men who shaped the religions of the world.
I invite readers to checlk out my book review of Heaven is for Real by Todd Burpo in this website
Like many Christians, I feel as if I know far too little about the history and development of my own faith tradition.
What disheartens me is that many of my fellow believers have no idea that the conversations we're having now aren't original and that there are ideas to call on from earlier eras.So, for anyone who wants to better understand the history of this messy, sometimes sad, beautiful, frustrating and inspiring thing called the Christian church, Walker's book may be a good place to start.
I bought it fir a quarter at a yard sale. Excellent... for a textbook. Dry and historical, but super well-researched. This book was my first experience into a bigger world of Christian history. It was accessible and easily digested for a novice. I'd still be referring to it, but I have since loaned it away... Never to be heard from again.
I read to p. 279, which is the end of Period IV and the end of my required reading for the St. Stephen's course. While it's full of information, this book is very dense and slow-reading, and the author at times seems to assume a lot about the background knowledge of the reader. Let's just say I'm glad to be moving on.
An excellent history of the Christian Church.
The most informative, insightful, comprehensive church history combined with good writing. A classic.
Excellent concise treatment, from New Testament times to the 20th century.
John Gerstner said that this book was the best one volume Church History in print.
Very unbiased history of Christianity.
This is an excellent overview on Church History. It is a little dated, plus the author writes from a different ecclesiastical background than myself, but overall, it is a classic and a well-written overview of church history, one I enjoyed reading in seminary.
Suffers the fault of many such books in seeing the work of humanity rather than God. A good enough academic survey but not outstanding or modern (which may be a good thing)
A tremendous and thorough history of Christianity from its founding up to the early 20th century (it was written in 1918). The author covers not only the major and minor personages but also, sometimes in depth, the theological issues and conflicts of given eras. Even though the author (who was a professor at Yale) seems a bit too conciliatory towards the progressive, less-than-orthodox views (he never uses the word "liberal") of certain movers and institutions of the 1850-1918 period, the book in total is both exhaustive and enthralling. Highly recommended.
A single volume history of the church, Walker’s work provides a great introductory resource for the student and pastor. In-depth and very readable, Walker divides the books by period into short, easy-reference chapters. While chronological (spanning from the NT-era to the mid-20th century – thus missing some more recent developments), each chapter is either personality or issue driven, thus making the book a good resource for review of specific issues and events in church history. A
To give you an idea of how old this book is, when he retired from Yale as Titus Street Professor of Ecclesiastical History Williston Walker was replaced by Roland Bainton. Bainton was replaced in 1962 by Jaroslav Pelikan, who just passed away in 2006. This book is well written, full of information,but just a tad dry. Use it as a supplement to other books.
The standard history of the Christian Church, only readable if your really interested or a history buff, once you get into it a lot of neat stuff, the book written more from a scholarly point of view than a Christian one. Probably the best generic Christian History Volume.
This book is a tremendous reference for Christian history. It's incredibly detailed but since such a large span of time is being covered Walker is still constrained on skimming over events. A good overview from the apostles to neo-orthodoxy. A difficult read at times.
The standard history of the Christian Church, only readable if your really interested or a history buff, once you get into it a lot of neat stuff, the book written more from a scholarly point of view than a Christian one. Probably the best generic Christian History Volume.
Classic. This is a one stop shop book for anyone who wants to learn more about the church but also looks to springboard into something deeper. Even though this book is almost 100 years old, it reads like a modern day work.
It is an excellent reference. I have used it for study and to get back-ground historical context when reading the Bible.
good
