https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1293866.The_Disenchanted
This is a book that deserves to be called a classic. Hunt it out if youve never heard of it; if you have any interest in drunken writers, the history and workings of Hollywood, the reality of being a writer, the hangover of success, hangovers in generally, or simply working with someone who is impossible to work with.Essentially the story of two men, fictionalised versions of the author, Schulberg, and F. Scott Fitzgerald, it describes the experience of a young novice writer who is ordered to wo
Scott Fitzgerald, it describes the experience of a young novice writer who is ordered to work with an old, experienced author touched by genius but now well past his sell by date and in the throes of full-on alcoholism.
Dirty suit, dirty thoughts, occasional flashes of the old genius and a desire to drink, drink, drink!Essentially an experience in suffering - we are Shep, trying to get anything down on paper for a film everyone knows is going to be awful - the book is brilliantly written.
The Great Hollywood Novel. Deserves to be read as much as Schulberg's own What Makes Sammy Run? and is superior to Nathanael West's Day of the Locust.
This is an astonishingly good novel from the scriptwriter Budd Schulberg (he wrote 'A Face In The Crowd' (1957) one of the few films in which the hero starts off with our sympathy and ends with our loathing him).
'The Disenchanted' is about a Scott Fitzgerald-like writer, a once famous author who finds himself co-writing a bit of mediocre Hollywood froth with a young scriptwriter who happens to be an admirer of the writer's best work.
Not realising that his idol is an alcoholic, the young screenwriter plies him with champagne on the plane, thus setting him off on a tragi-comic binge.
I can't recommend this underrated novel enough.
This is a wistful fictionalized account of the author's real life encounter with F. Scott Fitzgerald. As the book begins, alcohol has depleted the Fitzgerald character's talent, and he has lost his will to really produce good work. This is a cautionary tale: Guard the talent you have; don't compromise it for anything.
The protagonist, novice screenwriter Shep, both idolises and loathes his literary idol, Manley Halliday, and his ambivalence gives the story its terrific emotional tension. Now I want to reread "What Makes Sammy Run?" and "The Great Gatsby", two of my favourite novels.
I can but share a few of the choicest passages, hoping humanity someday shuns the “artistic hooliganism” that is Internet “writing.”–– There is never a simple reason for not writing a book or not writing your best.
It’s fear, it’s greed, it’s sloth—I suppose I suffered from all of these.–– Manley, who wrote grammatically, with precise syntax and with periods and even semicolons and whose influences were largely Edith Wharton and Henry James, had been appalled at what he called “artistic hooliganism.”–– She was not so much a woman of infinite charm, Manley was thinking, as a brilliant imitation of a woman of infinite charm.–– Like a Rip Van Winkle of the intellect, he felt that he had slept through a lifetime of opportunity.–– What a dabbler he had been, a trifler, a dandyish dealer in externals.–– …(alas killed in Madrid by a bull who had not heard how great he was in Mexico)…LITERARY SWOON!!!

This is not only a brilliant semi-biographical novel about F. Scott Fitzgerald but it's also one of the best novels ever written about Hollywood.
A young screen writer in Hollywood is tasked to work on a screenplay with a former literary giant he has long idolized. The giant is on the decline as he is wracked with alcoholism and lives in the world of his past. It shows the ravages of alcoholism. Every time he tries to pull himself together, he falls deeper and deeper into failure. The book is based on Schulberg's own experiences with F. Scott Fitzgerald, so it is very thinly disguised non-fiction. I have long admired Schulberg's novels, especially What Makes Sammy Run, but this was at the pinnacle.
Imagine how he felt when, as a young writer in Hollywood in the 1930s, he was partnered with his hero to work on film scripts.
Some, the most profound, were personal: Schulberg learned the hard way that meeting your hero - especially when he's become a gonzo alcoholic and 'spiritually OD' - isn't always best.
'Strange', the main character muses, 'how the decade that had made a virtue of irresponsibility produced more responsible artists than any American decade before or since.' It gives Fitzgerald's stand-in his due, saving him all the best lines: ('Readers want a sharp edge but they don't want to hear the grinding of an axe.') You read it not just for what it says about fame, integrity and survival - though it is instructive on all three counts - but because it as moving and as true as any biography.

This is the fourth book I've read by Budd Schulberg this year - he's become my new favourite author.
This novel is based on his own experiences as a young screenwriter in Hollywood collaborating with F.Scott Fitzgerald, who's fictionalised here as "Manley Halliday".
It's a superb portrait of a great writer on his uppers, tragic and comic by turns, and Schulberg wrings a surprising amount of suspense from the question of whether the two writers will actually get round to writing a script as his alter ego ("Shep Stearns") finds himself in a constant battle to keep Fitzgerald / Halliday off the booze.
For a book that basically takes place over the course of a week this seemed really long. It should have been about 150 pages shorter. But based on his screenplay for A Face In the Crowd I'd check out anything Schulberg has done.
Depressing, but interestingly so. I'll never be able to think of F. Scott Fitzgerald in a glamorous light again.
Budding TalentBefore he wrote On the Waterfront and other tales, Budd wrote this sumptuous novel.
Young Shep (the Budd character) is paired with the ageing superstar of the 1920's to write a college ice movie (Love On Ice) for the pretentious producer Victor Milgrim.
Manley is a diabetic drunk and his fatal frolics in pursuit of cash drag him to an untimely end.Schulberg could really write, as Anthony Burgess said in his preface to On the Waterfront, and The Disenchanted is a proper literary novel, full of fine, imaginative prose.
Una historia sobre un escritor ficticio en el ocaso de su vida.
A los cuarenta parece que tenga 80 y las deudas por triplicado de los años entre esas dos cifras.
El autor aprovecha para narrar el ambiente de los años 20 y las diferencias de esa generación con la joven de los años 30.
Habla del éxito, de la escritura, de las fiestas, de la vida...
Creando una biografía de un autor ficticio en este viaje por conseguir un guión decente que pague las facturas.
La verdad es que sin deslumbrar, solo en ocasiones en las que el autor se marca unas soberanas reflexiones, es una novela muy sólida y entretenida.
Of course this is a fictionalized version of true (and entertainingly unsuccesful) events that happened to Budd Schulberg while he was in the company of Scott Fitzgerald (who was trying to recreate himself as a Hollywood writer in his waning years, in order to make some much-needed money).
I did a little googling around and read up on the real-life version of this story and that cheered me up a bit, when the book got heavy about halfway through.
and Schulberg went on to write successful screenplays in Hollywood.
It’s a masterpiece of American literature, and maybe, with a few other titles like The Last Tycoon, the best novel ever written about Hollywood.
Funny, brilliant, devastating, exhilarating, and, ultimately, intensely cruel in a realistic and sad way, The Disenchanted is also wonderfully written, with bravura and style.
It is the portrait of a former genius writer who, after having lost his golden touch, his celebrity status, his money, his wife, and his former glory, tries desperately, and vainly, to salvage his reputation and to re-conquer some kind of professional luster by working as a screenwriter for Hollywood.
The Disenchanted is a thinly disguised fictional account of their time together, much of which seemed to be a struggle to keep Fitzgerald sober and in tow, and many of the people they encounter are surprised to find that Fitzgerald, whose star shone brighter than pretty much any other writer in the 1920s, is alive, if not all that well.
The book works well on its own, and the fact that it's about Fitzgerald is a bonus for admirers of the great writer, like myself.
In 1939, a young screenwriter is paired up by his studio boss with Manley Halliday, a once-respected author in the 1920s, now a broken-down alcoholic desperate for money.
As they work on the script, a college skiing romance, the screenwriter realizes that he has become Halliday's caretaker but can only watch as, when the two are sent to Eastern college to get some inspiration for the movie, Halliday goes spectacularly off the wagon.
Parts of the book are very good indeed, especially the big party which is the beginning of Halliday's downfall, but much of it feels overwritten, and the painful ending goes on for at least 30 more pages than it needed to.
He is assigned to nurture Shep, a just out of college newbee who faces the glitz and mongols of Hollywood.
Schulberg surrounds them with crisp beautiful writing and a plot reminiscent of F.
They must journey back to Manny's former life environment.
Their script is blank, their heads are filled with alcohol, and the ghosts of Manny's past are eager to devour him.
This has crystal clever writing, from Budd Schulberg, who wrote "What Makes Sammy Run" and the screenplays for Elia Kazan's "On The Waterfront" and "A Face in the Crowd." Who could ask for more?
Being a fan if F Scott Fitzgerald I was very happy with this tale written by Schulberg, who in real life has a very similar adventure to the events that take place in the book.
A trip taken to an Eastern campus to cover a winter carnival and the unraveling of a man.If you are familiar with the fated trip Schulberg and Fitzgerald took, you find much to uncover (even knowing that this is a fictional account) There is much Fitzgerald to be found in Halliday.
If you are not familiar or really don't care about a long dead author, the story is good, if sad.

Fascinating book, an interesting view of the intersection of the literary world and Hollywood in the 30's, the changing of the guard from the Jazz Age generation to the one that followed, and a haunting portrait of how debilitating and all-consuming the need for alcohol can become in the life of a former icon of social frivolity. It's based on a writing project between the author and F. Scott Fitzgerald, so there's some obvious parallels to Fitzgerald in the character of Manley Halliday, but the characters also stand well on their own.
A young screenwriter is paired up in '39 with an older, once famous writer from the '20s, clearly based heavily on F. Scott Fitzgerald, and everything goes terribly, terribly wrong. A dark story with not a lot of nice things to say about the decadence of the lost generation of the '20s. In large part a character study of the older writer, with much of the book spent detailing the wild, drunken times of his youth. I also very much liked that I genuinely didn't know how it would end until reading the last sentence.
Schulberg conobbe Scott Fitzgerald e ci lavorò insieme ad una sceneggiatura. Poi, ci scrisse un libro. Questa è la storia degli ultimi anni di vita di F.S.Fitzgerald. Scrittore molto amato e dalla vita alcolica e complicata. Ambientato a Hollywood ma non solo, "I Disincantati" racconta la storia di un incontro e nel frattempo gli anni 20 in America: il lusso, il successo, il declino. Bel libro, grandi dialoghi, personaggi convincenti. Mi ero dimenticata dell'età del jazz....
Was intrigued by this book that has been identified as being based on the author's experience with F. Scott Fitzgerald. Really enjoyed this book. I think the only reason it took me a while to read is because it's not particularly uplifting. But, Schulberg does a great job telling this story of someone who once was at the top (or felt that way) and now is dealing with a world that doesn't seem to appreciate him much anymore.
Maybe even a 4 1/2, really quite good and a book that I hadn't heard much about. I feel like Schulberg maybe doesn't get rated as highly since he spread himself between books, movies, and I suppose plays too, as opposed to being best-known for one. Definitely recommended, though it helps if you've read some Fitzgerald or at least have an interest in him (it's been awhile since I've read him but the references to his writing still made sense to me).
Based on Schulberg's real-life experiences with F. Scott Fitzgerald, you learn why the author won an Academy Award for his script for On the Waterfront. Schulberg has an excellent ear for dialogue, which, in comparison, makes the rest of his passages seem flat. This is heartbreaking stuff though for anyone with even just a passing knowledge of Fitzgerald's last days.
Surely a key point in this book is that he was a suffering diabetic, a lot of his behaviour, and dizzy speels were caused by this as much as alcohol, so he would often appeal to people more drunk than he really was?
