https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13099944-blowups-happen
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Nuclear Stalemate: "Blowups Happen" by Robert A. Heinlein(Original Review, 1980-07-26)Although Clarke was far ahead of his time in regard to synchronous communications satellites, even here he missed a few beats. Although I have not read his science article detailing the suggestion, his early fiction always had the satellites MANNED. He did not foresee the fantastic reductions in size of electronics (semi-conductors were yet to be invented) or their corresponding increase in reliability.
This was written in an era where nuclear technology was relatively new, so nuclear plants did not have the same safeguards as today, and the psychological stress of working in/around something that could, yes, blow up is not easy for someone to deal with.But then, Heinlein explores another dimension of this - the monitoring for the psychological effects of working in a plant and the weight of all the decisions to be made.
It's a good story about the impact of the dangers of technology as well as the effects of intensive testing/monitoring and how there can sometimes be too much of a good thing, even safety precautions.Originally published 1940, and #4 in the Future History collection
The foresight Heinlen had about nuclear power at the time of writing this is truly astounding. Couple this with how he approaches the psychological aspect of dealing with such power and this is a solid short story. The only thing holding it back for me is that some of the science ideas have not aged as well as others, which makes immersion difficult.
Can't believe this was written in 1940. Way ahead of its time.
Book 3. Again, not necessary to read in order to enjoy.A bit of a nail biter. What is going to blow up?Have a GoodReads.
This is the third story of the book, but it’s also the first story that nailed the theme of “Future History”.
While the story isn’t exactly what happens, and the end result is farcical (as well as a few other things I won’t go into to avoid spoiling the story elements) Heinlein found a realistic and interesting view of nuclear power.
When I really think about science fiction I think of three things I look for, realistic possibility, scientific understanding, and a believable story.
This story, #4 out of #21 of "Future History, has two versions.
The original story was released in September 1940 and predates Nuclear Reactors and the A-bomb attacks.
In 1946, Heinlein updated the story to include how an actual Reactor works.
Heinlein's 1980 collection "Expanded Universe" has the 1940 version.Heinlein's 1967 omnibus "The Past Through Tomorrow" claims it has the 1940 version, but it is really the 1946 version.The story itself deals with the stress of working in a Nuclear Reactor.
It flows into the next story "The Man who sold the moon" which was written a decade later in 1949.
I really enjoyed the scientific bits about nuclear energy, and the atmosphere felt a little unusual and interesting, but the storyline seemed quite raw to me. What was the use of writing this? To tell that nuclear energy is dangerous? Than it should have been a story about the consequences of a blowup, but not about the pressure on people who work on nuclear stations. So it seems that the author intended to analyze psychology of people vested with great responsibility rather than the disadvantages of nuclear weapons. But than I don't understand the ending =_=
They decide to bring in a shirk to snoop round and find out why the employee are cracking under the great strain of working at a nuclear power station. The problem is danger is so big is mind numbing. They trying to fix it but the don't want to cause other problems.I think we should only use renewable energy like wind, solar and wave. They don't pollute the earth like many other power sources. It's true that nuclear don't release carbon into the atmosphere. But we still have radioactive waste which is just as bad.
My hat will always be off to you, Sir Heinlein! You helped me understand so many things, and blew my tabula rasa mind in the process, especially from my perspective of knowing that you were writing from a theoretical view on topics and things that had yet to be realised or implimented. Thanks guy!
