https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7949.Here_s_a_Penny
For instance, the parents in the book pick out a red haired baby from among a bunch of babies in a hospital (they go to the hospital looking for a boy with red hair).
The mother in the book does explain that "a mother's and father's love" makes a boy really truly their little boy, which seems like a good idea for kids who have not thought about adoption and its implications before.
I hope that parents who read this book to their kids (or whose children read it on their own) will take the time to address adoption in a more realistic and sensitive way than the author does.
My son and I read this book as a part of Sonlight's Core A curriculum.
The story revolves around a little redheaded boy, Penny, who is adopted as baby by his mother and father.
Because the book is older, the pace is a little slow compared to modern children's books, but my son didn't seem to mind.
The book offers a good way to discuss the concept of adoption to children that may not be familiar with it.
For our family it was a straightforward way to explain adoption to my five year old and I chalked it's simpleness up to how old the book was.
So, I definitely judged this book by its cover and thought it would be lame. But the kids and I loved it! We laughed our loud and I was crying at the end. This is certainly a "vintage" book, set in a culture different from the current one but I don't think that is a bad thing. We can't wait to read the sequel and I will most definitely be reading this with little brother!
My kids enjoyed this but I was glad we read it aloud because I felt like there were a few things that needed explaining. The way the adoption came about and the way the six year olds went wherever they wanted.
Cute stories.
I loved that the main character is a boy.
My son loved it, but I had a problem reading it to him.
It is definitely a product of it's time in the way it approaches adoption.
We don't have orphanages anymore, and it's very rare that someone can just go and pick out the child, much less baby that they want.
(like the metaphor of picking out kittens that the book uses) It was very insensitive, and I felt the need to have a long talk of damage control with my adopted son and hug him a long time.
A sweet story about an adopted boy and his wonderful parents that love him to distraction and his little neighborhood friend and their adventures. Written in the mid-twentieth century, I am impressed by the wonderful way they present adoption and equally enjoy the innocent nature of the funny scrapes Penny gets into. There is also a more serious story that ends in such a lovely way that I nearly cried as I read it to my son. Well worth a read aloud to a younger child, for it has such good lessons on compassion and caring about our fellow man.
We read this as part of Sonlight A's read alouds. The kids really enjoyed it and would give it five stars, especially my son. I thought it was a bit disjointed in places though and I was not completely on board with some of the ways they discussed adoption, so I would give it three stars, so compromising here with 4. Not sure if we will continue on with the series or not.
Cute little stories of a little boy who was adopted. Makes a great read aloud for five- or six-year-old boys (or girls) who will find it both funny and exciting. Published in 1944, it is more sexist than modern books. The simpler times mean 6-year-olds are free to go to school and other places on their own.
Such a sweet story for elementary children to be read aloud to or to read on their own. Simple yet silly at times. Sweet and sets up for good discussions about making good choices. The ending also allows for some deep discussions about families and adoption.
Very cute! Sweet adventures of 2 friends. I actually cried at the end. Although the end isn't incredibly realistic, it was very innocent and sweet. I highly recommend this as a "calm" read-aloud. It's not full of adventure or crazy humor or events, but it is very sweet.
Read a long, long time ago.
I like how the book has all the kitties
My son and I loved this book. It triggered deep thought questions about adoption. This book was funny and a tear jerker. Read it! You will love it too!
Great book for little ones! My 5 and 9 year old really enjoyed this book, very cute!
On the one hand, it is nice to see the subject of adoption handled in a children's book, including a very tender moment in which Penny (the main character) is reassured that he is "really truly" his parents' son, no matter what another teasing child may say.
It almost made the adoption process sound like picking out a pet, which is echoed later when Penny decides ahead of time exactly what he wants his cat to look like.
I do still want to read this to my son, but probably not in kindergarten -- I'll wait til I think he's old enough to be able to understand the difference between the "closed" adoptions that were often done in those days, vs.
What a wonderful little book!
This story begins with the loving adoption of a little boy with freckles and hair the color of a "ripe apricot".
His parents named him William, but call him Penny, because "He looks like a brand new copper penny!" Penny is a very loving little boy who loves his parents very much.
I really enjoyed this story and would definitely read it again!
It was very well written, with an overall wonderful theme.
I would recommend it to anyone who enjoys children's literature & to families with adopted children!
We read this because it was part of our Sonlight curriculum, but the whole family wound up loving it.
Such a lovely story about a little boy who was adopted as a baby and the fun little adventures that he goes through.
My boys identified with Penny and laughed and giggled at many things that happened to him.
I loved the message about the beauty of adoption and how Penny's family grows in a special and deliberate way by the end of the book.
I read with my first grade daughter. This book is written in 1944 where 6 year olds were walking in streams by themselves and alone to halloween parties and climbing on roofs. The boy is named Penny because his hair color was the color of a penny. I kept wanting to say 'she'. It's a cute innocent book that also discusses adoption. My daughter and I were able to discuss adoption and the concept of 'really truly' parents which was in the book. Great old fashioned book. Some might say 'dated' but it was good.
It has been a long time since I read any books by Carolyn Haywood! When my now-13-year-old was around 6 or 7, his favorite books were the ones about Eddie, and I also read him some about Penny. Now, I have a 5-year-old who loves stories, and he is loving the stories about Penny just as much. We finished Here’s a Penny a few days ago, and of course he wanted to read the sequel, Penny and Peter. Read my full review here.
Our family really enjoyed this book! These are fun stories about a little boy called Penny because of his bright copper hair. What I love the most about this book is that Penny is adopted and so it allowed for many conversations with our kids about adoption and how God adopts us. The last few chapters had the tears flowing in a good way. A couple of the chapters were a little long, but they were still enjoyable. I would highly recommend this book.4.5 stars
This is a sweet, old-fashioned book that my two boys (ages 6 and 4) really enjoyed. It brings up the topic of adoption in a simple way that made it easy for my boys to understand. I loved how the mother explains to Penny that he is her really, truly boy. Such a beautiful part of the story that really touched me. Also, my boys laughed so hard when Penny and his friend wore the same Halloween costume. I thought this was a great, simple story that was quite enjoyable.
Carolyn Haywood books are sure to be enjoyable! A delightful story about an adopted boy and his friend and their adventures. Plus a happy ending for an orphan child who he meets. Heart tugs, but good.My 5 yo daughter really enjoyed this book and asked to read it everyday until we were done. :)ETA: My 5 yo son also loved this book when I read it to him!
I read this one aloud to my kiddos at night and they all really enjoyed it. They are ready to go and hunt for the sequel at the library! I personally found it a little boring, but I think the reason it held my kids' attention is because it's a dated book, more or less about everyday life, which looks much different from our daily lives. I I think they find that fascinating.
This is such a lovely, gentle book for reading aloud as a family! I have children who scare easily and it has been a challenge to find books that everyone is happy to listen to. This book was perfect! We all loved it and are looking forward to the sequel!
I have used this book as a read aloud for both of my children now. We use it in the first grade. No matter how many times I may read this, it’s down right hilarious. We love this book and I’m sure as my kids get older, they will pull it off of the shelf and read it themselves.
It is about this boy who has a best friend named Patsy. They go on adventures and Penny got two cats named Truly and Really. Penny's real name is William and they adopted Peter, a boy, who is his friend. THis cooker, Millie, she is scared of crabs and people were scared and it was really funny.
I like that this Sonlight book has an adoption story, but it's a little too cutesy and not reality, especially the part with Peter. Colton seemed to like the story ok, it was nice to read a story with a boy main character for a change.
Cute, but some of the concepts really haven't held up over time. Particularly how they handled adoption was abominable, kids aren't a freakin' sweater that you have to pick out the perfect looking one. But despite this, my daughter loved it.
I love reading these classic stories that told of simpler times. This is a great book for children; full of wonderment, hopes, dreams, kindness, and respect. It has become my youngest's favorite book.
This is a very cute story that's a family classic.
