https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48018.The_Practice_of_Management
Drucker repeats this throughout the whole book with different contexts.There is one interesting part about preparing manager for his job (even from the early years of life).
The most important things to focus on are:- writing poetry and short stories (they teach person how to express himself, teach him words and their meaning and above all give him practice in writing)- oral defense of "thesis" - should not be only once or twice but more often throughout the whole education- acquiring ability to see the environment and to understand it through history and the political sciences- learn economics and acquire tools of the economistsI'm very impressed by his knowledge and the way of thinking as for 1950s, and if there wouldn't be examples that purely refer to industrial era - it wouldn't be possible to feel "the age" of this book.Book definitely for the second re-read in the future!My favorite quotes:"Improvement is not the matter of learning to read faster or public speaking.
So everything people write about manangement was already known 50 years ago. That speaks both for Drucker and against decades of research on the matter. Read this if you're doing something that has remotely to do with management.
Most books on management are dull, repetitive, unoriginal, and full of self-promotion. Drucker's book is the original. This is the book to read if you want to learn about management, how it impacts people, how to do it better, and how it can go disastrously wrong.
أغلب كتب الإدارة بتكون مكررة ومملة وساعات بتحول الإدارة لعلم خفيف لأغراض تسويق الكتاب، الكتاب ده مختلف تمامًا، بسيط، واقعي، حتى ده واضح من مجرد عنوانه The Practice of Management ، اللي هو مش علم الإدارة ولا أساسيات الإدارة ، ولا الهري ده ..
الكتاب فعلًا بيتكلم عن ممارسة حقيقية للإدارة ، وبأسلوب مش ملل، مليان أمثلة لقصص شركات واقعية (زي فورد وسيزر وأي بي إم)، مع تحليل القصص ده وربطها بمواضيع الفصول.الكتاب إتكتب سنة 1954 ومع ذلك لا يزال محتواه صالح ومفيد جدًا ...
أظن إني هبدأ في قراءته للمرة الثانية قريبًا جدًا لإن مرة واحدة مش كفاية.أنصح بيه أي حد بيفكر ينمي مهاراته الإدارية ونظرته للبيزنس عمومًا.
While the specific examples are sometimes quaintly outdated, the general themes are still relevant.And what would Drucker, supporter of writing and oration college courses, say about business school requirements today?
One book that has been what you call as Original. A classic work, to be read by every management student, staff and almost any one in the corporate world. It is interesting that really nothing new has been added to management theory - is what I felt onreading this book first published in 1954.
As IF I actually read this. Last week of grad school classes. :throws hands up: I skimmed enough to write my paper. #senioritis
Yes, yes, Drucker is brilliant and a management classic, but this book was drier than a sawdust sandwich and made me want to clean out my refrigerator in procrastination.
It's really a great book.
His erudition is observable in simplicity as opposed to complexity, a feat that his contemporaries will find difficult to achieve (I mention this because I am reading him after Barnard and Simon, both stalwarts of management, but none the closer to Drucker’s charismatic writing in my opinion).
Instead, he is one with the mind of the reader, his tone is the dialectic that we hear in our own mind; his commentary helps us organize the many conflicting ideas we have harboured from casually scrolling past the abundant and ill-explained management wisdom of our times.
To some extent a product of its time with the emphasis on the scientific management styles dominant in post-war America, but also directly applicable to management today, as Drucker highlights again and again how central human character is and how little that has changed since time began.
There is no evidence that the human being has altered much in the course of recorded history, certainly none that he has grown in intellectual stature or emotional maturity.
Aeschylus and Shakespeare still the best textbooks of psychology and sociology, Socrates and St Thomas Aquinas still the high-water marks of human intellect.” (Pg. 366)
Muy bueno para los que están viendo administraciónMe gustó el libro lo recomiendo para los que están viendo administración y como el autor entiende que se debe llevar la gerencia de una empresa
I have read several books on management but none have put the subject in a clear perspective as one.In the only you would expect him to, Drucker explores the concept of management is and how to practice it in this classic.
This is to be achieved through management by objectives which is as useful today as it was in 1954 when this book was published.I think this book will go on my bookshelf classic section and I will refer to it as I go along in my career.
The book will act as a good base for you to understand management, the work of a manager and how these relate to the enterprise and society.

Well, I read this book because it is one of my class assignment. As my professor said "Wrote by Father of Management, this book change the Management concept at the current time", yes it did, but that's 60 years ago. Honestly I don't find it interesting as a leisure book nor informative as a text book.
This book is packed densely with business and life wisdom. I read it many years ago, but a decade (and several companies) later, I appreciated it so much more this time around. Drucker was such a prescient thinker. Anyone who is going places should read this book; it will expedite your journey.
I had a Professor in College and preached Drucker to us. He would say if you want to know how run and understand a business read Drucker. He is Brilliant and years from now he will be the known as the Father of Management.
I read this book for class at the Drucker School Of Management and its importance can not be underemphasized. This book is the foundation of the good practice of management. Anyone at any time in their career should read - it is well organized and clear and full of useful concepts!
Learn alot from it..
A wonderful book. Lots of great insight, but it can be repetitive and scattered. More thorough than "Effective Executive", but also not as concise or clear. I am a clear Drucker fan.
A classic. The purpose of a business is to create a customer.
an awesome book! Have listened to, and read it for more than twnety years. Contains principles and ideas that are as fresh as a moment ago.
Still the best management textbook, despite now-dated examples.
Drucker is the most influential thinker in management, in this book You are not only going to find good management insights but mostly you Are going to find best insights for bussiness
to devalope induvidual skills I have to improve mine about business mamagement
ive learned as much about management as i did about life!!!! read only one book on the subject - this is it!!!!!
fantastic
This is a special book. It was the Bible and the bedrock for practically every MBA program that sprung up at practically every college in the post WWII years.
good book for my job
I don't like his writing style but found his theories still pretty relevant today.
