https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5068.Last_Orders
Scene : the smoke room at the Bag of Grandmas, Old Kent Road, Bermondsey, East End, London.Three novelists are propping up the bar and grouching.Ian McEwan : My Booker Prize is bigger than yours.Julian Barnes : No it fucking isn’t, they’re all the same size.
You never won the Booker Prize and we fucking did.Julian Barnes : Also, we’re all over 6 foot 6 and we can hardly see you.Graham Swift: Is that actually Martin Amis or is it a stain on the rug?Martin Amis : Fuck off, I could have won the Booker Prize any time I wanted to, it’s so easy, it’s actually too easy, I wouldn’t wipe my arse with a Booker Prize.Graham Swift: Well cheer up, you got on the short list, didn’t you.
Those pubs are like little towns, every newcomer is an event in itself, though I’m sure the hostility is entirely imagined by me and due to my unchecked social anxiety.
** I know there are many people that disagree with me entirely on this point and for some reason maintain that old man pubs are actually the best.
I can’t comment on that as I haven’t read any Faulkner at all but I feel Faulkner has to be better than this.Other than being a pub novel, it’s a road trip novel with a group of friends driving to Margate to scatter the ashes of their late friend as per his last wish.
It ain’t like your regular sort of day.Nope. It ain’t. It ain’t my regular kind ‘o book, neither.
رواية من القطع الثقيل، تبدأ صفحاتها باللعب بمشاعر القارئ منذ البداية حيث نصبت المترجمة فخها العاطفي والجاد في آنٍ في مقدمتها للقارئ ، وتبيان الجهد المبذول في الترجمة وعلاقتها الشخصية بالرواية.
ثم تأتي شخصيات الرواية لتسحبك إلى عالمها وأحلامها التي لم تتحقق وعيشهم على الحافة، يتمنون ما لغيرهم ويتجاهلون إصلاح مطبات حيواتهم الخاصة.
يفنى العمر وتذهب بهم ريح بيرموندزي إلى لا مكان.
وكل هذا يتكشّف وأكثر في رحلة لذرّ رماد صديقهم المتوفى حيث يواجهون رماده ورماد حيواتهم في ذات الوقت.
ما إن انتهت الصفحة الأخيرة حتى استقرت العاصفة التي صاحبت مراسم نثر الرماد ، انتقلت إلى صدري وعاثت فيه الترجمة جادّة ومتقنة
This begins: “It ain’t like your regular sort of day.” Not exactly “Call me Ishmael” but you have to start somewhere.
In a few brisk chapters we have encountered (the word met suggests more purchase than we are given) Ray, Jack, Sue, Sally, Vince, Vic, Lenny, Amy, Bernie, Brenda, Joan, Mandy, Carol and Charlie.
150 pages in and I have to furrow my brow to be certain who’s the mother, who’s the daughter, who’s married to whom, and who’s the dead guy.
150 pages in and you can tell that the dead guy wanted his ashes tossed by his friends.
He wants his ashes scattered off Margate.
His widow, Amy, passes the batton/urn to Jack's mates, who all have a soft spot for Amy. They set off from Bermondsey to Margate in Vince's flash car (he's a second hand car dealer and mechanic)for this purpose.The story of their pilgrimage is endearingly human, sometimes tense, often funny, almost always full of emotion.
Each of the main characters tells their stories throughout the book - a chapter here, a chapter there, until the reader has built up a picture of their lives and how they interact, or otherwise, with each other.Well written, very human and enjoyable.
And Jack Dodds, dead and alive, is present from the start right up to the final moment when his ashes are carried away by the wind at the end of Margate Pier.
But Swift never makes his English setting or its history intrusive, so his people and their thoughts, actions and memories are simply human and, as such, are understandable to all.In fact, the very ordinariness of the characters made it difficult, at first, for me to distinguish one voice from another, and I found myself checking the chapter headings to see who was speaking.
From the story, I gather it is more of a working class neighborhood - but I gathered that from reading, not from foreknowledge.
The chapters are voiced by the four men who take Jack Dodd's ashes to the sea and by his wife, Amy Dodd.
The story begins It aint like your regular sort of day and takes place in that single day.
Throughout the men (and Amy) talk about their lifelong relationship with Jack.
We aint here to do the honours and pay respects to Jack because he worked so hard on his own nature he turned into something else.
This is not a large book, but one should take his time reading to savor his language, his great skill in crafting amazingly simple stories of everyday people.
Swift brings his characters--in this book, butchers, junk dealers, used car salesmen, funeral directors, housewives--great dignity.
Not an original plot device, but Swift makes this small, sweet tale an interwoven poem about love and life and changes.
I listened to this book, and the readers on Audible were superb, but I think I might go back and actually read at least portions of the book, just to savor the written words on the page.
I loved this almost as much as Mothering Sunday. This one is very male-focused, populated by a group of bumbling, inarticulate, hard-drinking Londoners on a road trip to scatter their friend Jack's ashes, each man's grief complicated by tangles of Jack-related secrets. The polyphonic audio version is amazing. It took me a while to get into it, but the intensity gathered and gathered and cracked me wide open.
Somebody once said you could go to any bar in Dublin and hear the sort of conversations you'd read in ULYSSES.
Graham Swift's Englishmen (and women) are similar to Joyce's Dubliners because they come from essentially the same part of the world, if a half a century later.
So: If Graham Swift's LAST ORDERS seems digressive and rambling to you and you've stopped reading it, take a second look.
Then you will see that this book is as universal as any other when it comes to meditations on war, generations, life and death.
This is one of those books where I could not decide if I like it until after I had finished reading it and thought about the book.
It took me some time to get used to the language and Swift's style of writing.
The book is told in various characters point of view.
It took me some time to figure out who everyone was in relation to other characters in the book.
In the end, I liked it but I didn't love it.
Meh. Don't get me wrong.
The writer is really good.
He has to be to be able to get into the skin of so many characters and portray them so distinctively.
The plot is interesting too ...
or could've been, if it were less convoluted with so many breaks for each character's narrative.
It took me halfway down the book to get a grip on the story and the way it ended left me wondering what the point was.
And throughout I couldn't wait to get over with it to go on to the next book.
So to sum it up, Meh!
I find that criticism irrelevant, since many authors are influenced by the works of other writers, and in this case the book stands well on its own.
The story is told in short chapters, each told by a different character, and includes many flashbacks that delineate the relationships among them all.
Swift probes the ambiguities of relationships, the unfulfilled aspirations and personal insecurities of each character.
Swift captures his characters’ language perfectly, and the reader is left with both affection and respect for the everyday lives of these people, their struggles and their small joys.
"I'd like to be all kinds of people....but I can't because I'm me....I don't want to be like me, I want to be like them but I can't I can't I can't."It took me about one third of the book to straighten out the characters in my mind.
I was thinking I should go back and re-read the beginning, but now I think it was better that all the stories were jumbled and then clarified.
Or somewhat clarified.
The characters themselves have not sorted out their relationships or their pasts either.Each short chapter is a reflection conjured by the death of Jack Dodds and his request that his ashes be thrown into the sea.
Jack's life and death and choices mingle with their own.
1996 Booker Prize Winner.And Worst Booker Winner ever for me.I would say during 1996 one of the judges named A L Kennedy was very upset with result and she said Booker as 'Crooked pile of non-sense' and after reading this (And also applicable only to this book as per my experience) and I understand her frustration.This is nothing but just a story of a dead man who last wish to scatter his ashes in sea has been carried out by his friends.
I think the voice are indeed very genuinely clubbed in the book but main problem was difficulty in identifying who is who's who and who's who is who ?
Somehow its both hard and easy to read, deep and shallow, simple and convoluted.
While many parts of the tail are almost soap opera-like many parts cut much deeper, all while with a humourous bent and plain language.The books blurb is fairly explanatory but one note I will make is there is very little war in this book.
One could be forgiven for expecting a harrowing tale similar to the Long Road to the Deep North, but the focus of Last Orders is on life before and after the war rather than experiences within.Definitely worth a read, perhaps goes down in the record books for the shortest funniest chapter ever.
Upon reading the premise, I remember that the film has been watched: http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0253200/Dedication: For AlOpening quotes:But man is a Noble Animal, splendid in ashes, and pompous in the grave. Urn Burial by Sir Thomas Browne.I do like to be beside the seaside. John A. Glover-KindOpening: It ain't like your regular sort of day.
let's stop in for a pint. jack would've wanted it. jack would've expected it.brilliant.
I have been disappointed with Booker Award winners in the past, but this winner from 1996 was deeply satisfying to me.My only reason for not giving it five stars is that I felt it was harder than it needed to be to learn the identities and backgrounds of the main characters and keep track of the time hopping that went on, even though I know that was a key to the novel's construction.The story is built around a last wish by butcher Jack Dodds that his ashes be scattered off the end of Margate Pier into the ocean, and four of his longtime mates, who usually gathered each day at a south London pub, undertake the journey.
رواية بسيطة مخادعة وتحكي قصة اربعة رجال يحملون رماد صديقهم المتوفي معهم اثناء رحلة تجمعهم وخلالها يقوم كل واحد منهم برواية قصته استخدام بارع للغة في ايصال كل قصة بطريقة شيقة وجذابة ، الكثير من القصص ستروى علاقاتهم الرومانسية مع النساء واخفاقهم في العديد من هذه القصص انها سهلة القراءة، ولكن يجب عليك قراءة الصفحات ال 50 الأولى بدون توقف وإلا ستصاب بالحيرة حول الكثير من الامور وستضطر إلى إعادة قراءة العمل من جديد . العلاقات معقدة ومتشابكة ومليئة الخداع وخيبة الأملذكرتني بقصة فيلم من ألف الى باء والذي عرض مؤخرا في مهرجان ابوظبي السينمائي
I had to reread this for my book club, and chose the audio version. I also cheated, looked up the cast of the movie on imdb, and thus was able to more closely identify the characters, as there are numerous first person accounts. Thus, the book really fell into focus for me, the narrators' stories packed more of a punch.
Recommended by my son. Someone told me you'll either love this book or hate it. I LOVED it! By the very last chapter I was beside myself with emotion. A good few times it made me laugh out loud. This book has everything but if you're looking for something fast paced and full of action you've come to the wrong book. It's slow paced and full of the complexities of ordinary people going a out their lives and their inter weaving relationships. A memorable story.
All of the characters, with the exception of Vic--which is interesting in and of itself and for whom I have a theory--are estranged in some way from the people that they love, mainly their children, and it seems that they are all on a journey of some kind to either rectify that estrangement or come to terms with that estrangement.
I don't know because I haven't fully processed the book in my mind but Vic's character is intriguing in so many ways and I just want to think more about that.Anyway, the novel is fantastic, which is surprising because I didn't think I was going to like it at first.
We are living it all at the same time.
Graham Swift has written a complex book that tries to blend this truth with the other truth that "our" stories are not solely ours.
They are of a time and place though and while they have similar stoic attitudes toward life they are all different but the same.This device, while I understand why the author wants to do it, is also very confusing.
The deep bonds of affectation, love and just plain old shared history that bind these characters lives together gives this book its integrity.
****.Although I found it hard in the beginning keeping all of the characters straight, it soon became a non-issue as I moved through the story.
In a letter he wrote before he passed he put down his request: His ashes were to be cast off the pier in Margate.
It fell to the lot of his drinking buddies to carry this request out.
We then learn of the background of each of his buddies.
The background text, of course, is their knowing the fate that will befall each of them eventually, and how each of his mates reacts to it in light of how his life has gone so far.
I didn't expect to love book about crazy old people on mission to scatter the ashes of their deceased friend, but I did.
All different POVs, thoughts, history, troubles going way back into their youth, lives never lived to the fullest, failures and wrong choices are what can happen to every one of us.
Story of missed chances, having no choice, or making a wrong one, being happy with who you have been all your life and questioning whether that person is really you, and where have your dreams gone?
It was beautifully written, so simple and yet so complex underneath the surface, I love it.
I feel the need with this review to point out that my rating has to do with how much I enjoyed the book/how much I got out of it rather than how I would rate the book as a piece of literature, capable of standing the test of time, etc.
I enjoy books that I can feel a sense of awe about the piece of art created or that I enjoy being immersed in, sharing the world with the characters or being inside those characters' heads.
I actually enjoyed the short chapters told from different points of view. In fact, there was one really funny, really short chapter. Sadly, I also felt that the book, despite its excellent tone and prose was about 125 pages too long.
Unfortunately I couldn't connect to this book..the language, the words, the English working class just could not engage with my 2011's mind in any way.
