https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47941.Bad_Girls_of_the_Bible
I didn't read the questions for discussion -- but the other stuff was nice.The book is sprinkled with quotes, both from the Bible and from without -- I had a few I particularly liked (even one from the Bible, go figure)"Heaven has no rage like love to hatred turned,Nor hell a fury like a woman scorned." -- William Congreve"That money talks I'll not deny,I heard it once: It said 'Goodbye'" -- Richard Armour"The rooster may crow, but the hen delivers the goods." -- Ann Richards"Your beauty should not come from outward adornment....Instead, it should be that of your inner self, the unfading beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit, which is of great worth in God's sight." 1 Peter 3:3-4And the lessons I took from the "Bad Girls" (I keep putting them in quotes because she includes Michal in that category, and she was not bad -- misguided.

You might think, given the format of this book (short fictional stories of modern women followed by short character studies of BIble women) that it's a light read or a shallow Bible study with no more depth than the latest novel.
But in reality, Liz Curtis Higgs, the author, has studied these Bible women extensively, and her study is evident in the lessons found in this book.
The fictional stories add a dimension to the women in the Bible that we thought we knew.
The Bible studies offer insights and useful information about the times and cultures in which the women lived.
I'm reading this with my friends and we're doing the study book too. So far...excellent.The way she re-writes the biblical stories into modern life situations (usually NOT a fan of this) is so helpful. I suddenly relate to all these 'bad' girls. A snake, an apple, not so tempting, but a smooth-talking guy, a kiss....yup. Understanding the wife of an Egyption official in the kings court, ordering around slaves, no, but the bored wife...again yup. I get it. And I'm learning how to see the signs early and get my eyes back to Jesus, so I don't fall in.
I was excited to read the book hoping that it passed along lessons of how being "bad" was okay because these girls from the bible were bad too.I had been taking a feminist biblical interpretation course and without reading the reviews for this book, expected it to continue along that same line of thinking.
They too continue the theme of shame (women are bad because they choose to be bad not because their circumstances make them do things they don't want to do.) I also noted throughout the book a very odd reoccurrence of women putting other women down.
This book was really great and a definite must read for all Christian women.
It helped me relate to the women in the bible so that I can understand where they were coming from.
It teaches Chrisian women that although we may have backslidden in the past that we are not defined by our misdeeds.
Jesus loves us and has washed those sins away.
In fact, those sins have made us better, stronger people.
We can really appreciate God's love and be better witnesses since we too can understand that everyone is human and falters.
I think there are definitely people this book will appeal to, but I guess I'm not one of them.
The contemporary retellings of biblical stories seemed to be reaching a lot to make the connection between the two worlds.
In addition, while the author says she used many different commentaries and did lots of research, it's pretty obvious she picked and chose which to use by picking sources that agreed with her preconceived ideas.
If you're the typical evangelical Christian woman, this book will probably appeal to you.
left of center, shall we say, it's probably not for you.
The first chapter is all about Eve. We are able to walk in Eve’s shoes in a modern day setting and experience her thoughts and feelings as we journey through her story.
Later in the chapter we are given a personalised commentary of the Biblical story of Eve, including lessons we can learn.I gained new insights into each of the women who were brought to life in these chapters.
The author explores their possible thoughts and emotions in a very real way.
I recommend this book to those looking to gain a deeper understanding of the Biblical stories of ‘bad girls’ like Eve.
I confess that I picked this book because the title was so intriguing. Higgs profiled ten women in the book and started each section with a modern fictionalized version of the highlighted bad girl. She then told the story of the Biblical bad girl and went over what we could learn from her. This book was a Bible study this summer at our church that I didn't do because of prior commitments, but if it were offered again, I would do it. There was a lot of good material covered and I learned something from each section.
How can she make this a story about Lot's WIFE, when Lot is given a "pass" by God for offering his daughters up to gang rape??- Offers 10 rational reasons why Lot's wife looked back, then dismisses them all, calls her disobedient, and labels her " bad"- Explains how the woman at the well lived in a time when a woman needed a man to survive, then calls her a fornicator and a bad girl- I am enjoying learning stories I either didn't know or only knew very sketchily- She says the bible lacks any mention of Delilah having a good personality, but (to me) that doesn't mean she didn't have one and was just a pretty face which she used to snare Samson, but the author decides (without any evidence) that lack of mention of a personality must mean she was pretty only- Why not some hate for Samson for not asking why Delilah tied him up three times already.
I thought each story had a very interesting discussion in biblical terms and made me think about some of these Bible stories in a new way.I did have problems with the characterization of some of these bad girls, especially Micah.
I don’t know why she would be characterized as a “bad girl” for telling King David that she thought he shouldn’t be dancing in the streets and showing his jiggly bits.
I would fully expect my husband to tell me I looked like a fool if I were dancing about town with my jiggly bits exposed!I think my favorite and most enlightening reading of the book was about Lot’s wife.
It's so nice to read stories about women in the Bible who were imperfect.
I like the Liz Curtis really gives a voice to the inner commentary going on in my head while I read.
For example, I've always thought David did some pretty dumb things (I mean, we're human so we ALL do dumb things), but I love how Liz points that out.
Lovely stories of forgiveness, and illustrations that Jesus offers His love freely to all who first have faith.
I like complex characters and I like Scripture, so for those two to be presented together pleased me.Then I read the book and it was terrible.The author simplifies the stories of these women to the point that they lose their integrity.
She villanizes the women, even in situations where it's not appropriate.
(I saw this especially with the story of Michal and it was irritating.)The biggest issue I had though was that in her attempt to relate the stories to present day situations, she created mini-fictions at the start of each chapter that often missed the point of the Biblical story.
In her first book on “Bad Girls of the Bible,” Liz Curtis Higgs encourages her readers to take a new look at these women who had a problem with sin.
As each chapter opens, Ms. Higgs gives us a real time story based on the life of the woman she is discussing before introducing us to her.
Come take a new look at Eve, Potipher’s Wife, Lot’s Wife, the Woman at the Well, Delilah, Sapphira, Rahab, Jezebel, Michal, and the Sinful Woman.
Come glean wisdom from their lives.I found this book to be full of wonderful suggestions on how to combat the devil; how to win the daily struggle with sin.
I remember hearing Liz Curtis Higgs speak years ago at some women's event, and really enjoyed her.
She has a good sense of fun and wit, and with a "bad girl" past isn't quite so "goody goody" in her approach to the study of classic Bible stories.
Her review of some of the more well-known "bad girls" of biblical fame isn't as deep as some, but it's fun, honest, and practical.
It's a thought-provoking, fun selection that would be good for a small or larger group study.
Liz Higgs took on the subject of Bad Girls in the Bible in an insightful way. She would introduce each woman with a fictional version of the Bible Story, put in today's time, then she would discuss the woman that the story referred to. Eve began as Evelyn who was to be engaged to Adam Mann. The fictional story helped the reader to relate to the character even more. She covered many women from Eve to Delilah to Jezebel and many more. Great book!!!
if you dumbed the bible down much further it would come with a crayon. the narrative voice is annoying. liz higgs, i'm not your "girlfriend."
I like some insights Liz has about bible characters: Potiphar’s Wife, Jezbel, Delilah, Lot’s Wife, the Sinful Woman and the Woman at the well, I learned more about Sapphira and Michah.
If Adam and Eve did not eat of the fruit of the knowledge of Good and Evil we and all our ancestors would not exist.In spite of my caveats of Bad Girls of the Bible, Higgs does provide biblical references and helpful insights at the end of each chapter.
Also the reader does not need to read the book in chronological order but can pick which biblical woman to study instead.
Despite the latter, I thought it was an entertaining stretch of the imagination for each woman featured.After the fictional piece, Higgs shares the Biblical account of featured Bad Girl, and then shares “What We Can Learn” portions as well as “Good Girl Thoughts to Consider.” Though Higgs is not a theologian, I think she shares valuable insight and interesting points to consider with each Bad Girl.
I think it’s interesting to look at the Bad Girls for once, as it seems the Good Girls are usually the examples set before us.
Higgs is hysterical, creative, and reassuring in Bad Girls of the Bible and I look forward to reading more of her books!4/5 stars
BAD GIRLS OF THE BIBLE AND WHAT WE CAN LEARN FROM THEM by Liz Curtis Higgs is a Christian/Women/Bible Study.
A humorous look at the Bad Girls of the Bible,Eve, Potiphar's Wife,Delilah,Lot's Wife,Michal,Sapphira,Jezebel,Woman at the Well, Rahab and the Sinful Woman.
A powerful story of ten women,bad girls of the Bible are showcased with a bit of fiction added.
A wonderful look into these women's lives, as well as a little fictional story included.
Once again, Ms. Higgs is a powerful storyteller,her characters,those we know and love,those who are fictional, and those we don't like so much are powerful,charming and realistic.
Too bad it begins with an entire chapter of victim blaming (of the author's own experiences, which hurts my heart) in which the first 'bad girl' is cast as such through being in an abusive relationship.
The relationship itself is fairly outright contextualized as being the 'bad girls' fault for being promiscuous and being a general 'sinner'.
This sends the message that a) it is the abused's fault that the abuser is hurting her b) sinners deserve to be in abusive relationships and c) that good, God-fearing Christian women are not the ones who end up in abusive relationships.
The author starts each chapter with a fictional story which is meant to illustrate, in a more modern and relatable fashion, each woman's sin.
If you're familiar with the Bible, you'll probably catch on to who she's talking about before the end of each story.
In the beginning, the author says that whenever she read the Bible, she always thought that the "good girls" - Sarah, Mary mother of Jesus, the elusive Psalm 31 woman - seemed so unrelatable.
But the Lord did a work in me showing me that I had to get rid of the pride I had.
And now years after I read that book when I get in a rush the Spirit taps me and whispers in my ears telling me to be patient.
It's in the coming clean about who you are is when the Lord does His BEST work in us.
But He will not work in us if we aren't willing to let Him.A must read for every women..because truth be told there is no such thing as a good women because if we was good then God didn't have to send His Son to die for our sins.
Not a bad book, but a little too easy.
The fictional stories were a little shallow and obvious, and the characterization was bland and cliche.
The explications didn't do much for me either--it lacked freshness.
I have grown up in my faith and am very familiar with all of the Bible stories mentioned, so I could see how this would be a helpful guide to women of newer faith looking for role models in the big holy book filled with mostly men.
However, I was still disappointed in the lack of creativity and originality in the story-telling part.
Read this as part of a church book group. Good discussions, but some chapters were boring. This author writes very sarcastically and many in the book club did not care for her writing style. The author also takes license with interpretating the Bible the way she wants to see things and our Pastor who is a graduate of Princeton Theological Seminary said there was no Biblical basis for some of her assumptions.
Recommended for ages: 15 and upThis wasn't bad, but wasn't my favorite either. I didn't even bother to finish the last couple of chapters. I love the fictional retellings at times, at others they seemed dragged out or to take away from the lesson.Don't get me wrong, this wasn't a bad book, just not one that spoke to me. I highly reccomend Embrace Grace by this author.
Exceptional storytelling and really amazing perspective. I LOVED the Bible stories being retold in today's age. My only complaint is that I would have liked to have explanation in the narratives about why certain actions were "bad" in God's eyes. In today's world many people don't resonate with the concept of sin and this is a fantastic book for Atheists or Agnostics to read.
Our Bible Study group did the video study that went with this book and had a short video that went with each chapter. She has such a great sense of humor and when she teaches, it sticks with you. Wonderful!
This book made me miserable. I suggested it to my bible study based on the title. I thought it would actually provide some contextual information about females in the bible. Wrong. It was basically a diatribe against female strength and independence.
I did not enjoy the fictional stories at the beginning of each chapter and I didn't enjoy the videos that went along with it as they were dated and didn't contribute much to the study.
The questions were okay, some of them were good and thought-provoking and some of them felt like you were looking up many different verses in the bible all to articulate one point that was already obvious.
I did enjoy learning about different women in the Bible that I hadn't studied or remembered before.
