https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18990.The_Honourable_Schoolboy
It gave me a very strange feeling to start reading this episode (# 6 in the George Smiley series) and discover: (1) the British idioms are offset by the fact that the Circus (centre of espionage in London) is balanced, and often explained by the Cousins (their American counterparts, based in Langley, Virginia); and (2) the definitions of the spy terms are woven seamlessly into the narrative itself.
In his introductory piece, John Le Carrè writes that he spent some months in China researching for this book.
I thought it was a masterpiece, and a more ambitious novel than Tinker, Tailor.It is very different from the last book: suddenly there is this unexpectedly huge scope of Southeast Asia to go alongside the muted meetings in grey London office rooms.
As a reporter myself, I've never yet read a better description of why journalists do dangerous things for so little money – why they get out of the car, cross the road, head towards the gunshots:Sometimes you do it to save face, thought Jerry, other times you just do it because you haven't done your job unless you've scared yourself to death.
I'm a longtime reader of the espionage genre --beginning as just a lad--and although I massively enjoyed all of John LeCarre's earlier works and particularly his George Smiley series--I must call out "The Honourable Schoolboy" for especial recognition.
But only in the same way that Charles Dickens portrayed his own era of Britain by describing--from top to bottom--institutions like law, labor, industrialization, banking, or prisons, can and does LeCarre express our own time by addressing the world of espionage and conspiracy.
Think of 'Schoolboy' as John LeCarre returning in triumph to the compacted, ultra-pressurized motifs which made 'The Spy Who Came In from the Cold' so potent, and re-igniting everything contained there, on a now-enormous scale.
Σε αντίθεση με το πρώτο μέρος της τριλογίας, αυτό με κούρασε. Το τρίτο αστέρι πάει βέβαια στον Le Carre, ο οποίος δεν είναι απλώς ένας συγγραφέας noir. Είναι ένας πολύ καλός λογοτέχνης, με ωραίο λεξιλόγιο και ιδιαίτερη ικανότητα να αφηγείται.
It's for want of a present.”  ― John le Carré, The Honourable SchoolboyWell sport, this was a messy, sometimes uneven AND occasionally a plodding novel but I absolutely loved every single word of it.
This is the second book of le Carré's Karla trilogy.
While more people focus on the first book, Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy, I personally love this one more.
Le Carré is often compared to Graham Greene, but the only real literary comparison for this novel is Joseph Conrad.
Conrad's ghost floats and haunts almost every page of this wonderful, beautiful, and sad spy novel.
One of the few bright spots is how the author wrote the 1970s colonized Hong Kong, I also enjoy how the author described the international spy network and how those spies work, but all the good things I have to say about this book end here. The characters are rather flat, the plot and the war among spies slow paced and uninteresting. In the end I don't care what might happen to any of those characters. So it's a disappointed 2 stars.
Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy is a tough act to follow, but I must admit I was expecting more.
At first, I thought that’s exactly what I was getting but then the mind-numbing second third happened and I was lost in a way I never was in Tinker Tailor.
I still don’t have a clear understanding of what happened—in the book or with my interest in it.All I know is that I got sick of reading about Jerry.
I got sick of Guillam’s overdone fawning.
I got sick of the female characters—including Connie—portrayed as little else than objects or victims of a man’s obsession.
Ate with him, and sulked; drank with him, and sulked; shopped with him, picking up the language like a thief, till they became a minor local sight together, the English giant and his sulking wraith whore, trailing down the hill with their rush basket—the schoolboy, in his tattered shorts, grinning at everyone, and the scowling orphan, in her whore’s sackcloth with nothing underneath, so that though she was plain as a scorpion the men stared after her to see her hard haunches rock through the fabric.
Those chapters would have been a standalone novel for any other writer; le Carre works them into the depths of this single book beautifully, integrating tones, themes, and action.One affecting scene has the book's lead agent, Jerry Westerby (the title is his code name), confronting an American spy right after the fall of Saigon.
Enough.I really, really want to read Smiley's People, the next book in this sequence, but am going to let some time pass in order to give The Honourable Schoolboy richly deserved space to breath in my memory and imagination.
Le Carre invested a lot of effort fleshing out Jerry's character, and considerable time on Lizzie's, too.
So the ending wasn't wholly satisfying, but that mild disappointment wasn't enough to reduce the rating.* * * * *I've read two of le Carre's novels three times, Smiley's People for its virtuosity, and The Honourable Schoolboy for setting and plot.
So rather than nitpick, I'll conclude by saying that it's a great spy novel, a fantastic tour of Indochina and Hong Kong, and a pretty good character analysis of an unhappy middle-aged spy trying to do the right thing.
I love le Carre, and I love the other two books in the Karla Trilogy, but for some reason this one didn't do it for me. I found the writing flat, devoid of le Carre's usual angry incisiveness, and the characters seemed more like wooden dolls than people. Maybe I'll revisit it some day, but let's just say, I'm in no rush.
I'd wanted to read the George Smiley books since watching the BBC adaptation of 'Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy' back in the 1970s.
I have read the series, up until 'The Honourable Schoolboy', in quick succession…'Call for the Dead' (1961)A really intelligent, beautifully written novel, and a great introduction to the Smiley books which I know will only get better and better.
They discover that Sam Collins's investigation of a money laundering operation in Laos could point to involvement by Karla.Overall 'The Honourable Schoolboy' is a slight disappointment after the wonderful 'Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy'.
This the second in the Smiley/Karla trilogy - the only one (as far as I'm aware) that hasn't been dramatised and as such the least known of the three.
As such, it is altogether more human than either Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy or Smiley's People - the reader is engaged on an emotional level even though it is perhaps the most complex of the three books in terms of plot.There are large passages of inaction throughout.
A John le Carre novel set in Hong Kong and Southeast Asia?
Then there are the operational stories, following daring missions into hostile territory, such as The Spy Who Came in From the Cold and The Looking Glass War.The Honourable Schoolboy has elements of both categories.
The second main character is Jerry Westerby, the 'honourable schoolboy' of the title, and the Circus's man on the ground in Hong Kong and Southeast Asia.
Smiley team is there but more as a sideshow to the juvenile story of a fringe spy falling in crazy love over a single meeting, his Southeast Asian ventures and a complex capture tale where one is never clear what the entire fuss is all about.Positively, the book vividly describes the expat life in early Seventies in HK, Laos, Cambodia, Thailand etc.
One is equally dark about the true nature of feelings between Jerry and Lizie, and if this was supposed to be the pinnacle of the retiring Smiley, it was simply too sad.The book may have had more meaning in the Seventies when political events of Asia were momentous, the Cold War for all its inaction appeared thrilling and not much was known in the West about people and cities discussed here.
The novels of Le Carré were filled with detailed descriptions and precise observations, and had authenticity written all over them and thoroughly destroyed any conception of glamour clinging to the spy profession – today, nobody would consider a James Bond novel anything but fantasy.The Honourable Schoolboy lends itself with particular ease to such a journalistic reading due to the place and time it is set in: a very large part of the novel takes place in Hong Kong and South-East Asia during the retreat of the United States from Vietnam and a lot of room is given to highly atmospheric descriptions of the situation, of the feelings of uncertainty, unrest and frustration pervading the area during that period – making this by far the longest book of Le Carré’s so far.
A superb story, multifaceted with wonderfully evoked characters and settings. The pinnacle of the Smiley books thus far. Michael Jayston's narration is flawless as always in the Audible version.
More, I nominate The Honourable Schoolboy as the best spy novel ever written, and the author himself doesn't put it in his top four.The Honourable Schoolboy, second in the Karla Trilogy, coming after Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy and before Smiley's People, is all about Jerry Westerby.
Uncle Benny in The Tailor of Panama.) Westerby, trying the whole book to live down that ordinary and so unspylike name and by doing so becomes one of literature's great tragic figures: a spy in over his head; a half-baked spy (a failed newspaperman!) in love.Elegant and masterly throughout, the book has what may be le Carre's best-written scene, surely his most human, so of course it happens in a living room, Smiley's visit to Lizzie Worth's parents.
Super.
Ripping.
But you see, sport, this is a case of le Carré being himself but 'more so', as they would say at Sarratt.
To the book's great detriment.
The writing is not that great for there to be so much of it.
But the book's main shortcoming is the titular character, a journalist aristo cum spy named Westerby, dispatched by Smiley on a mission in the south-east.
Annoying by half, in the final part of the book he [spoiler!] inexplicably turns out to be an utter cretin, when the plot so dictates, successfully winning the upper-class twit of the year.
Honourable School Boy Another good production by the Smiley Players.  This radio drama more than a straight forward audio book.  The cast is great, especially Simon Russell Beale who plays Smiley.  It is more of morality tales that will make you think.  If you like Dowton Abbey, you might want to check this out as Hugh Bonneville has a large part.
I am working my way through le Carré 's Smiley books. SCHOOLBOY is a disappointment. On to SMILEY'S PEOPLE.
164, 164, 228, 340, 433, 686.This is the sixth in the tentative Smiley series (I say tentative because the "series" is mostly a marketing trick) and the second of the Karla Trilogy within that (also a marketing ploy although more believable).The numbers above are the page counts (in the editions I read) of the six books so far.
My perception as I read this was almost as if I was reading a book by several different authors: much of it felt like Le Carré, but then other bits were like Ian Fleming and others like Graham Greene and yet others had at least a setting like a Joseph Conrad novel.
At times this was le Carre's best work. The chapter of the bureaucrats arguing over what to do was a triumph of showing government pettiness at it's best. But it did go on a bit, Westerby was just too smart, Guillam needs to find a new line of work and the women are trinkets. Of course the question of why did any of this matter was raised as George Smiley seemingly goes back into another retirement.
The characters had many aspects, very 3-dimensional and I loved their strengths and flaws as they played out through the narrative.Others have commented on a two novel rolled into one issue, but I didn’t feel this.
Rather, I felt like the severe issues and problems in London generated both unique opportunities that our hero exploited, and allowed important and thrilling aspects to occur as a result of their fumbling.
It happened in The Spy who came in from the Cold & here and I didn’t think it strengthened the story.
The story itself is involved and clearly a part of a larger and longer tale (the only other novel by this author that I’ve read, and it was decades ago, was The Perfect Spy), and I may have done this book and myself a disservice not to have read the several books in the series in sequence.
Maybe this is what most frustrated me; there seemed to be little attempt to get inside the heads of his characters, to plumb their individual psychologies.
The fault is probably more my own than that of the book or author, but realizing that did not make reading it any easier.
But as the novel progressed I found I just wasn't interested enough in the minutiae of the spying world in the way that Le Carre so clearly is, how it operates and what legwork needs to be done in order to unearth the Red under your Bed. Which was enough of a pity that I might go back to the book soon, because I didn't much read any of it either Hong Kong or Singapore…..Just finished this book and have absolutely revised my opinion.
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:1/3: It's 1975, and spymaster George Smiley takes charge of dealing with a betrayal. Stars Simon Russell Beale and Hugh Bonneville.2/3: The Americans make their presence felt, and tragedy strikes in Hong Kong. 3/3: Can George Smiley keep the situation under control? Can Jerry Westerby be trusted? Stars Simon Russell Beale and Daisy Haggard.http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b01616ll
Agora a decisão torna-se nebulosa: a história (the plot) é lenta e complicada.A escrita e os personagens são deslizantes , perturbantes e pouco claros. Mas claro, claro, não é tanto o plot quanto a vida deste universo incongruente, deslocado e desmotivado.Não é a continuação de "A Toupeira", embora se reclame como tal. É o romance pelo romance, com romance e muita moral desesperada.Não devia dar estrela nenhuma, ou cinco. Não é para perceber, mas pode ler-se, como quem não quer comprar mas compra. Siga para o seguinte, agora que já cá estamos.
There are two LeCarre's. the first from 1961 to 1971. (Good, though nothing memorable.) Then the second, from 1971 to the present. (Bitter, mediocre, overlong, padded, anti-Western Judeo Christian, pretentious, and whose characters only ever had one voice. Namely they all sounded like LeCarre.) LeCarre didn't just want the commercial sales, he wanted to be a chronicler of our time. A modern day Stendahl or Balzac. That will never be within him. Cuts a sad figure these days.

