https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/161846.The_Midwich_Cuckoos
But there is more to it than meets the eye.I absolutely loved the opening sentence:"One of the luckiest accidents in my wife's life is that she happened to marry a man who was born on the 26th of September."It is such a great homage to chance, which played a major role in the main characters' lives in The Day of the Triffids as well.
Where humanity brought destruction upon itself in The Day of the Triffids, ruthlessly playing with nature and technology, "The Midwich Cuckoos" on the other hand celebrates human inventiveness, compassion and humour, as superior to pure intellectual capacities.As for trust?
The way the army moves in immediately, the jeeps on the road, meetings between people who clearly think of themselves as the elders of the village, the consequent emphasis on protecting ordinary people, the "Grange" with its important secret work, all these contribute to a work redolent with the "stiff upper lip" feeling of post-war British fiction.Although this novel is class-ridden, and the women's roles are very much of their time, it is told with a wry humour which I had forgotten in the aftermath of all the adaptations.
They awake, apparently unharmed, only to discover that all the fertile women are pregnant - but the children they give birth to are not like other human children, and turn out to have extraordinary and disturbing powers.It starts off by establishing the uneventful normality of the village.
See details on imdb here.Wyndham's Next Take on These IdeasEleven years after publishing this, Wyndham published Chocky, which takes very similar themes, but puts them in a more realistic setting, and a single cuckoo child, who is firmly human.
In Midwich, however, no birds sang.In Oppley and Stouch, too, as in other places, hands were soon reaching out to silence alarm clocks, but in Midwich the clocks rattled on till they ran down.In other villages sleepy-eyed men left their cottages and encountered their workmates with sleepy good mornings; in Midwich no one encountered anyone.For Midwich lay entranced.While the rest of the world began to fill the day with clamor, Midwich slept on.
I have yet to see either.Here is a trailer of the 1995 filmhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0WzcW...Worth seeing just to see the little girls' wigs :) This book seemed more sci-fi than horror to me and is about a night where all the village women in a small community become pregnant after a night of deep sleep and the discovery that a flying ship had landed close to a laboratory.
The first three quarters was fairly interesting but staid and ponderous and not at all frightening but the last quarter became quasi-philosophical, pseudo-political, sort of intellectual and quite frankly duller than a burnished doorknob.
As mentioned earlier I was already well aware of the plot from the movie versions so there is no surprise in store for me but I still find the book worth reading and immersive.
If you are unfamiliar with the story when you read this fine sf classic I envy you.____________________________* The other one being The Day of the Triffids - also a must read classicNote:There are two movie adaptations of The Midwich Cuckoos that I know of.1960’s  Village of the Damned And John Carpenter’s 1995 remakeI quite enjoyed both versions but the 1960’s one is better in term of atmosphere and subtlety.Oh!
As I read this book, it began to strike me how Wyndham's world view contrasted with that of Tolkien's.
Whereas Tolkien harked back to a pre-industrial time of innocence wishing we might get back closer to nature, Wyndham reminds us that we only invented civilisation as a way of distancing ourselves from the harshness and brutality of nature.
There is nothing cosy and secure about mother nature.Wyndham also tells us that tolerance of difference is a luxury of those who are secure in themselves.
Apart from that, they are not normal children.
They are children with a capital C, having super psychic powers and such reasonable arguments to make as are unable to grasp by any normal person living on the planet.
The people of the village are terrified shit and manage to control the situation somehow but still are unable to prevent the inevitable.
I am glad I read it as a classic because no matter how strongly it failed to terrify me out of my wits, this book does shower light philosophically on the condition of humans.
Well well, I liked reading this book.
Now I have read this book (I did try and add the link but it wouldn't work, hey ho) a number of times and it is one of my faves.
This however was not someone reading or narrating the book, now I did know that, but it was another listen whilst garden audiobook.
So the book is a 5 star read, no doubt about that.
That said it was an enjoyable listen, with the amazing Bill Nighy in the starring role, always a winner for meSooo, I will definitely re-read the book (5th time ?) as the abridged version is just not as good, but this was a strong 4 stars overall, despite the abridged version.
This short book on a surreptitious alien invasion continues to resonate in my imagination weeks after reading it.
As with Hitchcock movies, the truly disturbing events are either off-camera or seen in a reflection of someone’s experience.
As in “E.T.” the military try to get involved, but it’s up to regular middle class folk to deal with the obscure threat within their midst.
Like cuckoo chicks ready to take over the nest.I long avoided the book because the movie version, “Village of the Damned”, seemed just another horror thriller with a stupid premise.
* 1/2 starsI'm actually shocked by how utterly and completely this book frustrated and bored the hell out of me, how crushingly disappointed I am by the whole affair. I mean, this is  John Wyndham  for Chrissake -- author of The Chrysalids and The Day of the Triffids (both of which are all levels of awesome).This? This just pisses me off. It's made me want to make my Jules face -- yeah, I got one ... what of it?I mean, you have GOT to be fucking kidding me. How does such a fantastic idea in the
Rather than action or character development we are treated to long rambling speeches that go nowhere by characters we could care less about which add nothing to the story's drama nor our enjoyment of it.The only reason this book didn't get slapped with one star is because it contains an awesome premise -- a staggering golden nugget of an idea alluded to in its clever title -- that has gone on to embed itself in popular culture influencing many authors and filmmakers since its original publication in 1957.
Ah, my other favorite John Wyndham classic and another prime example of the blurred lines between sf and horror in the first half of the 20th century.You all are familiar with the concept even if you don't know where it comes from. Creepy kids are born in an isolated England town to unsuspecting mothers and proceed to terrorize it with their hivemind and telepathic abilities. Classic stuff and pillaged innumerable time in both print and film. How do you defeat enemies who know your every thought?
Another enjoyable weird tale by Wyndham, who brought us The Day of the Triffids (which everyone thinks they know how the story goes until they read it and find out about all the blind people...).
When it disappears (the dome, that is) all goes back to normal.
(Not all women, it later shows, everyone that was within sight of people outside the dome - being awake - did not get pregnant, which I thought was a scary and interesting detail).The children get born and then we are in the Village of the Damned (in case anyone missed the connection).
This story follows the sleepy village of Midwich where not a lot really happens.
No one can really explain things, and so we follow what goes on next through the eyes of one of the villagers who was unaffected.
I really liked the concept and I think this was another strong example of Wyndham showing how good he is at drawing you in to the story and making you wonder just what is happening.
I love that these books are all standalone and such easy reads, and I think they work really well as kind of sci fi mysteries.
Whatever it looks like, there isn't an antagonist, but two species who are too distant from each other to be compatible.After a mysterious vehicle crash-lands into the sleepy town of Midwich, its citizens as if trapped in some half-lucid, bizarre dream are forced into birthing, hosting and raising a group of golden-eyed Children that aren't really theirs and aren't really children.While the villagers are sympathetic in one light, being at the mercy of the Children, who are too quick to delve out fatal punishments to anyone who harms them, at the same time many of them are unnecessarily brutal to the Children, unwilling to work alongside them in any way or all-too-eager to burn them all alive if the opportunity presents itself.
Some of the attitudes displayed by the characters could have been exasperatingly old-fashioned, but I was pleasantly surprised to see them made fun of (for example, when the - male - village doctor attributes some disturbing behaviors to the mothers' hysteria, his wife is quick to contradict him in his reassuring and condesending rationalisation).The streak of dark humour that runs through the book gave the story an almost fairy-tale-like whimsy while tackling a lot of philosophical issues, which made it a much more enjoyable (not to mention lighter) read than I had expected.
Seriously, just look at some of the covers this book has had...kids are creepy!As someone who has been perpetually unclear on the difference between a baby and a parasite (ok, biological imperatives, whatever) this whole "host mother" scenario really strikes at the core of my very unmaternal fears.
We all know how important dread music is to any good horror flick, and it was hard to get totally lost in the story with ZZ Top's La Grange looping in my head.
An entire town falls asleep at the same time and are out for hours.
Soon after, however it is discovered that all of the women in the town who are of child-bearing age (including virgins, single women, married women, spinsters etc) are all pregnant at the exact same time.
Oh, and there was talks of a spherical object in the sky around the time that everyone passed out.....
yeah....::runs::They made a movie about this novel, called Village of the Damned.
I never saw it but I remember the creepy movie poster of the remake- This book was definitely goosebump-worthy.
Wyndham, after writing in several different genres under a different name in each, decided to write "realistic" science-fiction - and met with success.In this book, one character expounds the view that in all science-fiction, aliens invade Earth by turning up with superior armaments and blasting away - until defeated, having underestimated humanity or overlooked some other factor of crucial importance (e.g. microbes in War of the Worlds).
But actually humans have compromised with "dangerous" species - otherwise, what are all those nature reserves and national parks all about?The views of evolution and ecology presented by Wyndham in this novel (and by Heinlein in Starship Troopers) show a fundamental mis-understanding.
Something strange has happened to the village of Midwich.
Some mysterious force has shrouded the town and rendered all therein unconscious for a day and a half.
When the force lifts, life returns to normal, except that every woman of child-bearing age soon discovers herself to be with child.
It's up to the men of Midwich to work out what to do.
As men we must shield them for their own good from the less savory aspects of this experience.
And once the children are born, we should shun them and treat them as interlopers from whom no good might possibly come.
Despite the age of this sci-fi book it is very forward-thinking for it's time and I really enjoyed it...creepy! It is slow paced and there was a lot of time spent philosophising about the children and how to deal with them.There is very little action in the book which may put people off but I didn't mind as it's a short book and the moral debates were as interesting as the physical situation.I love that John Wyndham described his books as 'logical fantasy' - it's very apt.
Very good little eerie sci-fi novel set in a small village in England in the 1950s. Solid writing, very good storytelling. Picked up at random at a used book shop and enjoyed it thoroughly. PS Don't have alien babies.
I enjoyed The Midwich Cuckoos more than I expected to, I think.
That could be a problem for me, but having read The Day of the Triffids and The Chrysalids, I pretty much knew what to expect of Wyndham, which made it okay -- besides which, the sense of unease isn't so awfully pronounced in The Midwich Cuckoos.
The narrator was not especially distinct from the narrator of The Day of the Triffids, to my thinking, and the ideas about evolution were completely expected from John Wyndham.
Isn't The Midwich Cuckoos, in a sense, the flipside of The Chrysalids?
When I was in high school, we had to read The Chrysalids. After that, I wanted more and devoured all the Wyndham I could lay my hands on. This is one of his best novels. It is tense and horrific, yet not without humour. The idea of smug, Borg-like children who can torture you without blinking a single one of their golden eyes is just plain chilling. At least with zombies you have a fighting chance.
The Fear of Change1 May 2016 I'm going to have to be honest and say that I really didn't like this book all that much, which from glancing over my friends' reviews seems to put me at odds with pretty much all of them (or at least the ones who actually wrote something). Mind you, the one thing that I did like about it (or at least my copy) is the little sticker on it that says £1.50, which brings back memories of the time I was in London and discovered this really cool second-hand bookshop in Lei
This is still a hotly debated topic even today, despite the fact that many of us secularists tend to write off the idea of intelligent design as being some crack-pot religious fundamentalist ideal (even though I do believe that they have some good points).
However the idea that comes out of this book is that humanity was originally seeded by an alien race and that the Children happen to be the next stage of our evolution.
If the Children are the next stage of human evolution then what is actually happening is that humanity is preventing their own progress.
(hide spoiler)]Unfortunately I believe that, modern film makers being what they are, where this to be turned into a major film I can see the themes of this book being twisted to serve a kind of pro-abortion message.
And I'm always against film makers turning a book into a propaganda machine in such a way.
The Children born in Midwich are alien, outsiders and yet were still born the natural human way.
In this way I believe Wyndham was creating an entertaining novel that questioned what it was that makes us human by comparing the people in his novel to the clearly alien Children.
2.5 stars - Spoilers-Liked some parts, hated others.
The most enjoyable aspect was the premise — creepy alien children are always fun to read about.
Everything else was kind of dull.-The pacing was all over the place.-It wasn't always clear what was going on — the writing was either too dry or made no sense.-The random changes from first person to third person was annoying.-There was too much philosophy for my liking.-I was rooting for the Children more than the villagers.
And his pointless wife, Janet, was also dull.-I doubt I'll read any more John Wyndham books.
Wyndham was another of those authors whom I wanted to read during 2017, and I decided to begin with The Midwich Cuckoos.
I am sceptical when it comes to science fiction, and cannot usually suspend my disbelief that well.
It is simply not a genre which I usually enjoy.
Saying that, there is something about this novel which feels frighteningly realistic; the England which Wyndham portrays is so real, and his story is so masterfully told that the whole feels quite believable after a while.
It reminded me of Shirley Jackson, which is always a good thing, and is a real treat to read.
https://jessicantdoit.wordpress.com/2...The Midwich Cuckoos is about the quiet, fictional English town of Midwich, which gets breached by a strange silver object.
I've heard some people comment on the novel and say that the villagers seem to except such strange goings on too easily.
I think it's completely understandable that they just accept their reality; even if you can't explain it something, it doesn't stop it from happening.There are characters in the novel, however, who do attempt to explain this curious phenomena.
I've heard some people say that this novel takes itself too seriously; that the writing is repetitive and boring at times.
I read The Day of the Triffids last year and thoroughly enjoyed it - I wouldn't say I enjoyed this one quite as much but it was definitely worth the read.- This novel follows the story of a small rural town called Midwich.
The book really picks up pace once the babies have been born and the villagers discover that there seems to be something a little odd about them.
I thought the ending was great and definitely worth the wait!- 4 out of 5 stars and I would recommend to any lover of Wyndham or the Science fiction genre.
