https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/223380.Stories_of_Your_Life_and_Others
But that narrative is interspersed with non-chronological episodes from her daughter’s life.The heptapods’ spoken and written languages are unrelated to each other, and the latter has strange properties that affect Louise’s consciousness, specifically her perception of time and free will.
At times, I wondered if the linguistics and maths/physics was getting too esoteric, but it didn't quite jump the shark and it all wove together brilliantly.The detail below is for reference, and is spoilered, because understanding this is what the story is about (on the page, though not on screen).(view spoiler)[Light travels faster in air than water.
But the movie got me on a whole different level and I was laughing and crying and it was soooo damn bittersweet and glorious all at the same time.
:) That was one hell of a pleasant surprise.As for the rest, I admit to wanting to know the story that The Arrival is based on before I watched the movie this weekend.
Seventy-Two Letters: Golems as a great twist on artificial intelligence, featuring the problems of reproduction and natural selection as a linguistic issue, focusing on the Kabbalah as the key to unlock the power and creative force of God. And it's a great adventure, too!
If the quality among these 8 stories wasn’t at such a consistently high level, I’d say that Chiang was merely a ghostwriting team, comprised of 8 different authors, all exceptionally talented, each with different interests, politics and prose styles.
Every story genuinely feels like it could be penned by a different author.
While reading this one, I started realizing how some of these concepts have clearly influenced other stories.
Story of Your Life: 6/5Stop what you're doing now and read this.
This is the absolute best short story I have ever read.
I don't read very many short stories collection but after this one I feel like I now need to.This one contains the most mind bending and original sci-fi stories I've read in a while.My favorite what the last one!
There are mind-boggling wonders to be found there.Notes:*Similar to how Kurt Vonnegut’s Tralfamadorians aliens perceive time in  Slaughterhouse-Five.** There are still some great Ted Chiang stories that you can read online or download.
I will just briefly comment on each one:"Tower of Babylon" (Nebula Award winner)The collection starts with a wonderful fantasy story that reads like sci-fi thanks to the logic employed.
Not really my favorite story here, but like all the others it is clever and well written, short too!"Story of Your Life"(This is my original mini-review for this story, I'm keeping it!) One thing I hate about aliens on sci-fi TV is how goofy and anthropomorphic they tend to be.
That leads to more theological and philosophical questions about good, evil, God, and what it means to be human - and at what point we cease to be such (see also Vonnegut’s Galapagos).I’ve reviewed each story individually; the links below are to those fuller reviews.Tower of Babylon, 4*Drilling through the vault of heaven in ancient Babylon.
The Evolution of Human Science, 3*What's the point of humans when there are metahumans?Hell is the Absence of God, 3*Alpha Course studies Job in a world where angelic visitations are real.
How to love God in an unjust world?Liking What you See: A Documentary, 5*Eliminating lookism.
I will review 2-3 stories at the time as I am going through other books at the same time and I would not want to forget what I read.
Tower of Babylon 2.5* As synopsis the story is about people in the Old Testament reality which are building a tower to heaven and a surprise waits when they get there.
The question behind this strange subject could be: How far should people go in the pursuit for knowledge?
Story of Your Life 4*This one was the best of the 4 stories I read, the inspiration for the Arrival movie.
Although I liked the stories I read, I wasn't to impressed.
These are amazing, more than 4 stars, and worth propping open on my steering wheel and glancing down to grab up a thought-ful of words at a time on straighaways and gentle curves.*As far as I can gather, Ted Chiang is an egghead scientist (technical writer?) who attended a fiction writing workshop and began belting out these incredibly well thought out short stories that have much more science than the typical science fiction.
Set in Victorian times, referring to golems and steampunk-like ideas (I think?), it reminds me a little of the ending of the newer BSG series."Hell Is the Absence of God" - The most eloquent instructor I'd ever had who spoke about creation and God in the classroom was a thermodynamics professor.
I dove into the collection due to Chiang's gift for immersing me in worlds where physics, linguistics and engineering are used as tools for characters grasping at the very essential and emotional questions of what it means to be human.-- "Tower of Babylon" (Omni, 1990).
Chiang's supplants biblical myth with physical and mechanical engineering to create a world where man is using tools and technology to create marvels and unlock the very secrets of God. This story is everything the Bible isn't when I try to read it: sensual, clear and full of wonder.
Dok ne sročim nešto o ovoj kolekciji priča, evo mojih ocena:Vavilonska kula - 4Shvati - 4Deljenje nulom - 3Priča tvog života - 5Sedamdeset dva slova - 5Razvoj ljudske nauke - 3Pakao je odsustvo Boga - 5Voleti ono što vidiš: Dokumentarac - 4Dakle, prosečna ocena za celu zbirku je: 4,125Ove tri priče koje su dobile peticu su baš baš baš odlične!!!
For me, that reduced my enjoyment of a few of the stories while others had the perfect balance for me.My favorites were Tower of Babylon, Hell is the Absence of God, and Liking What You See: A Documentary.
Chiang's speculative fiction set in biblical mythology is thought provoking and fascinating!Understand - 4 stars - An interesting but complex and heavy story.
Still heavy on complex theorems, but still interesting when not too confusing.The Evolution of Human Science - no rating - 3 pages so too short to rate.
This one got my brain juices flowing the most.Liking What You See: A Documentary - 5 stars - my favorite out of the collection.
And the process of establishing communications with the aliens was fairly realistic (fairly because we're talking about aliens, realistic definitely in Terran terms like when the author explains the importance and difference between written and spoken language).Here is a link a friend here on GR posted, showing the opinion of a linguist who saw the movie (beware of spoilers!): http://gizmodo.com/what-arrival-gets-...I, personally, haven't read the article yet since it contains spoilers to the movie (which seems to be slightly different from the book so I wanted to wait) so I will get into more detail after having seen the movie.Hell Is the Absence of God: The story was fantastically sarcastic - or at least I chuckled and laughed out loud at it.
Arrival by Ted Chiang is an ebook I picked up from the library because everyone was talking about the movie and I wanted to watch it but I like to read the books before seeing the movies, I have a thing about that.
I didn't know this was a book of short stories.
(If I am looking for a book, that is different.) This book is not a novel but a lot of short stories.
I really enjoyed these short stories.
Now, I can't wait to go watch the movie!
Can't wait to see how they made this short into a full length movie!
[UPDATED] This collection of short stories was quite insightful.
It is based on the Biblical story but with great twists and insights about human pretentious at higher knowledge and how the universe conspires silently to confound them.Understand was an interesting one, but for me ended kind of abruptly.
I used a similar idea in my first book, so it was nice to see someone else thinking along similar lines.Liking What You See: A Documentary was the last story in the collection about a calli, a technique for combatting what the author calls "lookism" or the discrimination against folks based on their looks.
Story of Your LifeTold from the perspective of a mother remembering her child.
The mother, a linguist, is recruited by the government to interpret the language of an alien species, and she adopts a new perception of reality.Easily one of the best short stories ever written.The Tower of BabylonA weird and mysterious way to start the short stories collection.
Rewriting legend; as always with Chiang, best prefaced with the words: "Imagine if..."UnderstandMind-blowing for its brevity, Ted Chiang's best stories are so compact, less talented authors would be tempted to expanded them into novels.
6.0 stars.
Simply put, this is the single best collection of short fiction (science fiction or otherwise) that I have ever read.
While my personal favorite is "Hell is the Absence of God," each and every story has something memorable, something original and something brilliant to offer.
If you have not experienced Mr. Chiang's warmly intelligent and scientific yet emotional prose, then do yourself a favor and IMMEDIATELY go and get a copy of this collection.
HIGHEST POSSIBLE RECOMMENDATION!!!!Winner: Hugo Award for Best Short Fiction Winner: Nebula Award for Best Short FictionWinner: Locus Award for Best Collection
His writing is deceptively excellent: I would call him a writer's writer, because the flat evenness of his prose may strike a reader as boring unless they have tried to write as clearly themselves and failed abysmally, at which point they begin to appreciate Chiang's infallible choice of words and lucid prose which sinks into the mind without friction.Stories of Your Life and Others is much superior to his novella Life Cycle of Software Objects, and contains pretty much all of his greatest short stories which I have read, except for his excellent "Exhalation".
No accounting for taste especially your own.This book has had rave reviews and not from the usual sources.
And I hated it.The overall writing style I found to be flat.
This collection of short stories had ideas but maybe a third had overt religious overtones.
Not just the way religious ideas, philosophy and science may have a meeting point, no just straight up religion.There was no wit to the stories, no fun with ideas.
The narrative voice was a flat monotone only relieved by vain attempts at horror.
I just don't get this book but yet so many others do.
I opted to read Ted Chiang's award-winning/nominated short stories right after watching Arrival.
What I read marveled me with eight unique tales that challenge the norms and tackle big ideas about humanity, religion, and science.The compilation began with the "Tower of Babylon," a familiar biblical myth set in an alternate Mesopotamia where a tower was built so high it reached the vault of heaven.
The stories shared bittersweet conclusions which I actually liked.If you have seen Arrival or the recent TV show Black Mirror then you are in for a treat with this one.
I want to share this story with a person who taught me a linguistics course, who once gave me an assignment to fashion a written message to send to aliens, and who isn’t here anymore.I love this story, and I am always going to associate it with grief.Let’s talk about the actual fiction now...When I first picked up Stories of Your Life, I was convinced I didn’t like reading short stories and that I was going to bounce off that length of fiction forever.
It was so long ago I don’t really remember what I wrote, but I still remember agreeing with the fact that coding could also be a fitting subject to the Sapir-Whorf wisdom… Thinking it over once again, and being a “more mature human being” (meaning: “being advanced in years”), I still think we can draw some parallels between natural and programming languages.
It is that diversity that allowed me to both grow individually as a programmer and further advanced my own tastes when it came to choosing my favourite programming languages.The rest of this review can be found elsewhere.
And get ready to have your mind blown just a little bit.The movie is taken from the novella called  The Story of Your Life, and I honest to goodness wish they had kept that perfect title.
But - as in most deep and quiet books - Hollywood had to pump up the testosterone for their marketing people to sell.I will tell you nothing about the story from which the movie is made except to tell you that the female protagonist is a woman with courage and love in her heart.
What would become of human science if superhuman people were able to make scientific progress incomprehensible to us?
Chiang is a remarkable author and, in my opinion, a worthy successor of the likes of Jorge Luis Borges.Edited to add: Just watched Arrival, Denis Villeneuve's movie adaptation of one of these stories.
Highly recommended nonetheless.Second edited to add: I just reread the graphic novel La Tour, by Belgian authors Shuiten and Peeters, and found a stricking similarity of inspiration with Chiang's opening novelette, "Tower of Babylon".
I think this is probably because sci-fi is naturally more focused on outlandish ideas that can be nicely explored within the limited scope of a short story -- wouldn't-it-be-neat notions that wouldn't necessary support a longer format (like: "wouldn't it be neat if you had perfect foreknowledge of events and could prepare for them?" made a great Philip K.
Because not only has he just about cornered the market on coming up with great ideas best explored in his chosen format, but his writing demands none of the concessions that are often asked by genre writers (I'm not snob, but you know 'tis true; enthusiasm and imagination often trump prose when you're talking spaceships and orcs).
Većina ovih priča može se pročitati na internetu, linkovi su na službenoj wikipedija stranici o autoru. U hrvatskom se prijevodu može naći jedino naslovna i to u Siriusu broj 22, dok je na srpski jezik nedavno prevedena cijela kolekcija. O većini ovih priča već sam pisao - linkovi na osvrte su u naslovima pojedinih priča. Tower of Babylon  - ova bi bila mlak početak da nisam prvo pročitao Story of Your Life. Na priču ga je inspirirao prijatelj koji mu je ispričao židovsku verziju mita o Babilons
3/5Division by Zero* - ova me također nije oduševila, možda i zato jer sam prije nje gledao dokumentarac gdje su istaknute iste zanimljivosti iz povijesti matematike, a sama radnja mi nije zanimljiva.
5/5Story of Your Life ** - ovo je prva koju sam pročitao i koja me natjerala da potražim sve što je Ted Chiang napisao.
Čak i tako je za 4/5.Ova kolekcija kratkih priča Teda Chianga je jedna od najboljih koje sam pročitao.
Sam zaplet o matematičarki koja formulira dokaz koji pokazuje da je matematika formalno pogrešna čak i u svojoj aritmetičkoj osnovi je zanimljiva polazna točka, ali nije napravio dobru priču oko toga.
The ending is quite dramatic and memorable.There are also several stories that examine religious faith, specifically Biblical themes like “Tower of Babylon” and a literal vision of a world in which Heaven and Hell are real, “Hell is the Absence of God”.
It was a good idea, but I thought it dragged on far too long and I lost interest partway through.Overall, I think this collection will probably please more readers than not based on all the rave reviews and awards, even though I didn’t like it all that much.
We think of the world in terms of cause and effect, but in theory we could see things in terms of their purpose. Ted Chiang introduces an alien civilization in a pretty mysterious way that feels a little similar to Sphere by Michael Crichton.It appears these aliens are acting to maximize the purpose of the universe, to make it come to the most beautiful end it possibly could. And the story kind of makes you feel like you're a part of it. It's pretty awesome.
Πως γίνεται ένας σημαντικός συγγραφέας της λογοτεχνίας να λογίζεται σαν τέτοιος γράφοντας απλά, στα 27 χρόνια της πορείας του μέχρι σήμερα, να έχει γράψει μόνο 14 διηγήματα και 1 νουβέλα; Αμ έλα που γίνεται.Ο Ted Chiang ενδιαφέρεται για την ανθρώπινη κατάσταση και την ανθρώπινη εμπειρία, για τη γλώσσα, για τους φυσικούς νόμους.
Είναι η μόνη συλλογή που συγκεντρώνει ιστορίες του μέχρι σήμερα και χαίρομαι που αυτό το βιβλίο υπάρχει πια και στα ελληνικά.Ανάμεσα τους και το 'Η ιστορία της ζωής σου, το διήγημα που μεταφέρθηκε στον κινηματογράφο σαν 'Arrival' και βρέθηκε [χτες!] υποψήφιο για 8 Όσκαρ.
Ted Chiang is a brilliant storyteller, and this set chronicles his first decade or so of stories, including the first story he ever wrote ("Tower of Babylon," the one that went on to win a bunch of awards.)What I like about Chiang is that he isn't afraid to include all the science and math that made him want to explore a concept to begin with.
I like knowing that the stories come from research and thinking, not just inside his head.
Yep."Story of Your Life" - the tense changes at first are a challenge but there is a reason that has to do with aliens.
This is a must-read book for Science Fiction (SF) fans. For people who don't like SF, please kindly try to read this short-story collection before commit not to read any SF story.A pure serendipity for me. I bought this book on a closing bookshop sale, and it was my best-buy from that sale event. I admit, I had no big expectation when I put in my basket. I hadn't aware with the author and I didn't believe at that time the list of awards of the stories that included on this book.
Now I will admit that this book has caused me some confusion - The book I have is titled Arrival and looks like the one above - so you think the ISBN is correct however it appears that it also goes under the name of Stories of your life and others and was in fact retitled to coincide with the film of said title.
Anyway I digress - the title was changed to match the film but I believe the contents have not changed nor its editing.So on to the book - yes its a book of short stories although to be honest it felt like they verged on the classification of novella they are pretty substantial - which to be honest is not a bad thing.
Öyle çok aman aman Bilim Kurgu okuyucusu değilim belki de ondan böylesi bi haz aldım Geliş'ten bilemiyorum.
Kısa kısa hikayeler içimdeki Bilim Kurgu hevesini tatmin etti tam anlamıyla.
İçinden sadece bir hikaye vardı ki okurken gözüm SON yazısını arar oldu.
Bilim Kurgudan ziyade dinsel bir doğaüstü bir hikayesi olmasındandı o da; Cehennem Tanrı'nın Yokluğudur.
Öte yandan bir kusurla dünyaya gelmiş olan karakterin her şeye rağmen yaşadıklarının Tanrı'nın bir lütfu olduğuna olan inancını, sakatlığı ortadan kalkınca da nasıl bir boşluğa düştüğünü aktarıyor.
Her Bilim Kurgu ve hikaye severe kesinlikle önerebileceğim bir kitap.
Θα πω αρχικα οτι δεν εχω ξαναδιαβασει τιποτα παρομοιο του.δεν εχω καμια σχεση με την επιστημονικη φαντασια, δεν ειναι το ειδος μου.εχω ακουσει ομως τοσα πολλα πραγματα γιαυτο το βιβλιο που δεν μπορεσα να αντισταθω στον πειρασμο να το παρω απο τη βιβλιοθηκη.ειναι λοιπον ενα βιβλιο που αποτελειται απο 8 διηγηματα τα περισσοτερα εκ των οποιων μου φανηκαν εκπληκτικα , ενω μολις 2 μου φανηκαν ψιλοαδιαφορα..θεωρω οτι ο κοινος παρονομαστης ολων τους ειναι η προσπαθεια του ανθρωπου να προχωρησει, να ανεβει και πολλες φορες να ξεπερασει τα δεδομενα, τους νομους της φυσης, τον ιδιο τον Θεο(οποιος και ο,τι κι αν ειναι),με καταστροφικα τις περισσοτερες φορες αποτελεσματα..η γραφη του Chiang ειναι καθηλωτικη και οι ιδεες του ευφανταστες.θα αναφερω τα 3 πιο αγαπημενα μου διηγηματα: 1.η ιστορια της ζωης σου-το διηγημα που ενεπνευσε την ταινια "arrival"-απλα διαβαστε το και δειτε τη ΟΠΩΣΔΗΠΟΤΕ 2.κολαση ειναι η απουσια του θεου-η ιστορια που καταρριπτει οσα πιστευουμε για την κολαση και τον παράδεισο και τον "φιλευσπλαχνο" θεο και 3.σ'αρεσει αυτο που βλεπεις?(ντοκιμαντερ) -σαν να βλεπεις επεισοδιο του black mirror.
Τόσο ψηλές που, σε μια απρόβλεπτη κίνηση, εξέπληξα τον ίδιο μου τον εαυτό, και αγόρασα την ελληνική έκδοση, κοντράροντας την ανάποδη αναγνωστική μου φύση να μην διαβάζω αγγλόφωνα βιβλία, παρά μόνο στο πρωτότυπο.Τελικά πάρα πολλά πράματα πήγαν στραβά και το βιβλίο απεδείχθη μια καταστροφική λογοτεχνική εμπειρία: ένας παγωμένος, αποξηραμένος τρόπος γραφής, που φαίνεται να εξυπηρετεί την ορθολογιστική φωνή με την οποία αφηγείται τις ιστορίες του.
Οι ιδέες, όμως, ποτέ δεν με ενθουσιάζουν και μάλλον είμαι αδιαπέραστος από τα κύματα ευφυΐας των έξυπνων συγγραφέων που δεν μου κάνουν την χάρη να χαριεντιστούν λίγο με τις ποταπές μυθοπλαστικές μου ανάγκες.
This collection of short stories is, quite simply, brilliant.I discovered this book after seeing the movie Arrival, which blew my mind and sent me into a tizzy of internet stalking when I found out it was based on a short story called Story of Your Life.
Instead, I suggest you read the questions posed in the blurb and if you find an interest in exploring them, I urge you to pick up this collection.I do, however, want to take a moment to discuss Story of Your Life (the story) versus Arrival (the movie).
This was originally printed as "Story of Your Life and Other Stories," this copy was the movie tie-in for "Arrival" though.
The adaptation to film was very well done, it really captured the tone of the story, of the whole collection.
"Story of Your Life" has to do with an alien first contact.
People who are raised with verbal language tend to think in words, "phonologically coded thoughts," that usually flow in a linear pattern, mimicking our sentence structure.
But what about people raised without sound or words?
How about an alien race that thinks and speaks circularly, outside of linear time?
This sends the mathematician's world--and her relationships--into a tailspin.Godiva chocolate this story most resembles: Dark Ganache Heart.
Pure chocolate, with heart.Story of Your Life: What's a sci-fi collection without some aliens?
Reading a little about the steampunk genre and why it appeals so much to sci-fi writers helped me really get the most out of it.Godiva chocolate this story most resembles: Pecan Caramel Duet.
Thankfully, it was the shortest in the set.Godiva chocolate this story most resembles: Dark Mint Medallion.
Brilliant.Godiva chocolate this story most resembles: Key Lime Truffle.
It had potential, but I liked Shallow Hal better.Godiva chocolate this story most resembles: Aztec Spice Truffle.
I always feel massively let down by SF movies as the 90 minute format with explosions and lasers rarely leaves room for the big concepts and character development I love in the written form.
The other issue with the form is it is  really hard to end a short story .
Reading this only increased my love for the movie, learning a lot of the elements that made the movie great were not in the short story.
The book describes the Heptopods as basically "barrels with limbs" and in the movie they were so alien and visually strange.
Βαθμολογία: ★★★Ο Ted Chiang έχει όντως τρομερή φαντασία. Οι ιδέες του για όλα τα διηγήματα είναι πανέξυπνες. Το πρόβλημα βρίσκεται στην απόλαυση αυτών των ιστοριών. Οι πρώτες μου φάνηκαν καταπληκτικές, γεμάτες αγωνία να μάθω τη συνέχεια. Μετά με έχασε, με έκανε ακόμη και να αφήσω το βιβλίο στην άκρη. Νομίζω τα 3* είναι μια καλή μέση βαθμολογία. Ξεχώρισα τρία αγαπημένα: «Ο πύργος της Βαβυλώνας»,«Κατάλαβε»,«Σ' αρέσει αυτό που βλέπεις;»
Once you're completely sick you suddenly get all the free time in the world and you could use it for reading, but since your head is throbbing with ache and fever and your eyes are burning (and I won't even mention other bodily horrors that are going on) a zero reading can be done, alas.
I just had to cry on some virtual shoulder.I liked this collection of stories, although I can't say they all were equally interesting.
It looks like ready made for big screen (seriously, how it's not a movie yet?), it has action, it has incredible story and it has a fantastic feeling of being inside someone's brains.
The story "The Story of Your Life" itself is exquisite, a minor miracle of imagination and discipline.
Pure Genius.Clearly, the publisher's have put the four worthwhile stories first, followed by the very dull and irritating remainder.• Tower of Babylon - 3/5The myth of the tower realised wonderfully, with a nice twist.• Understand - 3/5A brain repair medication increases intelligence.
Painful and profound, human.• The Story of Your Life - 6/5This really is an exquisite story, a minor miracle of imagination and discipline.

The greatest living short story writer in my humble opinion.
Hands up who enjoyed 'The Arrival'.
I knew of it's source material before being relleased and I usually try to read something before watching it (it's the best way), but i have a not so great history with short stories.
I'm slow.
I need time to live with characters and situations.
It's probabl why I don't actively watch movies too.
There are some absolutely wonderful stories in here.
I need to buy some of his other stories!Again, I'm slow.
And it took the movie to make me read it.
Anyone slower than me who is a SF fan, read it!
This rating is actually an average between the 5 star of the first 4 short stories ("Tower of Babylon", "Division by Zero", "Understand", ""Story of Your Life"), and the 3-star rating of the last 4 stories.The author is a very original writer, and the type of Sf that he writes is an interesting, inventive, compelling and quirky blend of science fiction "proper" with other subject fields such as sociology, horror, philosophy and science.
A collection of exquisite stories, SF mixed with psychology and spirituality.
Le Guin & Christopher Paolini's books.5/5★The Evolution of Human Science aka Catching Crumbs from the TableScientific achievement moving beyond most humans' understanding.3.5/5★Hell Is the Absence of GodVery interesting story about faith and whether God is merciful or vengeful.5/5★Liking What You See: A DocumentaryIf possible, would you prevent lookism (conscious or unconscious value judgments based on someone's appearance)?4.5/5★Highly recommended.
