https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5107.The_Catcher_in_the_Rye
i'm going to deconstruct the shit out of this novel, baby!journal entrytoday i am 25 years old.
just re-reading parts of it brought back all that old angst about all the fucked-up shit in the world that kids have to deal with.
things have got to change.i cracked open A Catcher in the Rye yesterday before the party and read some of my favorite parts.
it's not too late for me to learn from you, to find some meaning in life.journal entrytoday i am 35 years old.
does she think that having a child with me will bring more meaning into her life?
That’s the one thing about crummy old guys, they always hate books that kids like.
Every time I reread a corny book that I really liked when I was a kid it makes me want to give the writer a buzz and ask what the hell is going on.
If they fall off, they fall off, but it’s bad if you say anything to them.”p.211I’ll bet everyone is going to think that I’m just horsin’ around or trying to be all sexy talking like this.
That’s the thing with some people, they are always sneaking up and writing “fuck you” on your book reviews when you are not looking.
There was one feature where they asked people what book changed their lives, and something like more than half said Catcher in the Rye. I think there might have been some celebrity comments in there, too.
I felt like hating Catcher in the Rye was my dirty little secret.Time passed, and my self-loathing mellowed.
I began to think that perhaps I'd come at it too young, so after my first year of college, I decided to re-read it, go at it with fresh eyes, and see if my opinion had changed.Here's the thing: it hasn't.
My theory as to this book's unusually polarizing nature: either you identify with Holden Caulfield o
I read the end of The Catcher in the Rye the other day and found myself wanting to take Holden Caulfield by the collar and shake him really, really hard and shout at him to grow up.
At sixteen, I found Holden Caulfield's crisis profoundly moving; I admired his searing indictment of society, his acute understanding of human nature, his extraordinary sensitivity (I mean, come on, he had a nervous breakdown for God's sake, he had to be sensitive).
That’s the kind of crap that Holden Caulfield (and J.
Generally, I don't hate books, either.
But no, I will never be reading this book again.In my opinion, Holden is the worst character in the English language.
Holden is almost the anti-Gary Stu. Nearly every thing's wrong with him.
The plot is one of the worst I've ever read.
Holden calls up an old friend, has a drink.
Holden calls up a girl, has a drink.
Was there a climax to this book?
Maybe it was Holden nearly freezing to death (um, what?) in Central Park?
No, no, maybe it was when Holden called up that hooker!
He is intelligent (despite being lazy and unfocused, Holden displays great insight and intelligence regarding books he has read and displays at the museum); and 5.
He is compassionate, intelligent and deeply emotional and yet is unable (or unwilling) to focus that energy on those steps that he sees as leading him away from his “happy memories of childhood” and closer to the “scary world of the adult.” I think this is superbly shown in Holden's expressed dream of wanting to being the “Catcher in the Rye.” Quick side note: I had no idea what the title to the book referred to until I just read the book.
And as for Salinger--a real sufferer of Post-Traumatic Stress who was one of the first soldiers to see a concentration camp, who described how you can never forget the smell of burning flesh--I can only imagine how he felt when people read his story of a man, crippled by the thought of death, and thought to themselves "Yes, that's just what it's like to be a trustafarian with uncool parents".
In my hand I hold $5. I will give it to anyone who can explain the plot of this book (or why there is no plot) and make me understand why the hell people think it's so amazing.
Well, this was a pain to get through.First of all, this is a shitty way to start a novel no matter how you want to introduce your main character.If you really want to hear about it, the first thing you'll probably want to know is where I was born and what my lousy childhood was like, and how my parents were occupied and all before they had me, and all that David Copperfield kind of crap, but I don't feel like going into it, if you want to know the truth.
Terrific personality.” Salinger’s character Holden is actually a lot like Salinger in his real life.
By the end of their only meeting in the book, Holden says to Sally, “You give me a royal pain in the ass if you want to know the truth.” The real life Oona O’Neil ended up breaking it off with Salinger and married the famous actor, Charlie Chaplin.Despite Holden being a sixteen year old teenage boy he acts much older than his age.
ناتور دشت رو میشه بارها خوند و بارها همراه هولدن کالفید در برابر یک جامعهی مزخرف طغیان کرد...لذتِ دوباره و دوبارهی ایستادن و تسلیم نشدن...هولدن منو بیش از هرکسی یاد تراویس بیکل (نقش رابرت دنیرو در فیلم راننده تاکسی) میندازه...هردو از اجتماع بیزار شده و مجبور به طرد شدن گشته اند و شاید تراویس بزرگسالی هولدن باشد...شاید هولدن هم راننده تاکسی شود و دوس دخترش را بدون هیچ نیت بدی به سینمای پو+رن ببرد...می تونه همچون تراویس با شرارت های جامعه روبرو بشه اما هنوز پسرکی شریف و بی غل و غش بمونه:قسمت زیر ب

Holden Caulfield is a mixed- up cynical teenager, getting kicked out of another prestigious school, Pencey Prep, in Pennsylvania, the irony is that this obviously intelligent, privileged, 16 year- old, is somehow flunking out, why?
Checking into the Edmont Hotel in the "Big Apple", a rather shabby, rundown place, (I wouldn't recommend staying there) and then the elevator operator the sleazy Maurice , gets him a prostitute, Sunny, she's Holden's age and he kind of feels sorry for her.
تمام ماجراهای داستان طی سه روز که هولدن از مدرسه برای رفتن به خانه خارج می‌شود، روی می‌دهد.
او می‌خواهد: تا نامه ی مدیر، مبنی بر اخراجش، به دست پدر و مادرش برسد، و آب‌ها از آسیاب بیفتد به خانه ی خویش پا نگذارد، به همین ‌خاطر از زمانی که از مدرسه خارج ‌میشود دو روز را به سرگردانی سپری می‌کند.
رمان اصلی در سال 1951 میلادی منتشر شده، برگردان فارسی رمان یعنی همین کتاب با عنوان «ناطور دشت» با ترجمه ی «احمد کریمی» در دهه ی پنجاه هجری شمسی قرن چهاردهم هجری منتشر شده است.
سپس برگردان دیگری با عنوان «ناتور دشت» با ترجمه «محمد نجفی» در دهه هفتاد قرن چهاردهم هجری شمسی نیز منتشر شده است.
Reading this book was one of the biggest wastes of my time in the past twenty years. Holden Caulfield's problem is that he is the biggest phony he knows. Count the number of times he lies or behaves like someone he's not and then try to convince me otherwise. This is not a book about teenage alienation. It's about a smart-ass who can't deal with who he really is and spends almost 300 pages ranting about it - most likely to a doctor in a psych ward.
I know that's impossible, but it’s too bad anyway." One thing I thought of to help explain Holden's struggle with growing up is this: Coffee.
That is, until the day you give it another chance, you start to be able to smell and taste the different tones coffee has.
I think Holden struggled with the initial shock, that although life is more bitter than it "smells", or than you think it will be, there are the hidden joys and sweet flavors that make it almost better!This book doesn’t really set out to answer any of the questions it raises.
I did not love this book.
Holden got on my nerves, and I was more than half way through before I thought I’d like it at all.
I was getting apprehensive, was I going to be one of the one’s who did not get this, or like it, or be left out of this literary landmark?I read this wondering how Mark David Chapman gained inspiration from Holden when he murdered John Lennon in 1980.
With a revulsion of even touching the words written on a wall?Is Holden gay?Ultimately I am left with more questions than answers.
My not-just-GR-friend-but-very-real-friend brian called and told me that J.D. Salinger had died maybe about a half hour ago (as I begin this 'review').
After returning for a few minutes to my soul-deadening job, which -- when you really get right down to it -- is just another way of killing time until I join Salinger in oblivion, I started getting all funny-feeling about it.
Yes, this still frightens me, but I'll always have Salinger's very particular and empathetic world to which to retreat when I have sacrificed too much of myself to a real world I'll never completely understand or feel at home in.
529. The Catcher In The Rye, J.D. SalingerThe Catcher in the Rye is a 1951 novel by J. D. Salinger. Holden Caulfield, a teenager from New York City, is living in an unspecified institution in southern California near Hollywood in 1951. Story of Holden Caulfield with his idiosyncrasies, penetrating insight, confusion, sensitivity and negativism. The hero-narrator of "The Catcher in the Rye" is an ancient child of sixteen, a native New Yorker named Holden Caulfield. Through circumstances that tend
Holden Caulfield, a teenager from New York City, is living in an unspecified institution in southern California near Hollywood in 1951.
There are many voices in this novel: children's voices, adult voices, underground voices -- but Holden's voice is the most eloquent of all.
Transcending his own vernacular, yet remaining marvelously faithful to it, he issues a perfectly articulated cry of mixed pain and pleasure.
Did you know that Mark David Chapman, who killed John Lennon, held this book, The Catcher in the Rye, while he was arrested?
See, to tell you the truth, I am in this P.E.I. profile and we are evaluated (in every class) by criterions, which means that I had to do six different oral presentations on this classic and so had to analyze everything orally.Nonetheless, there is this one quote from the book I can’t get out of my mind and want to share with you:(While dancing with some girl.)She was really good.
رمان اصلی در سال 1951 میلادی منتشر شده، برگردان فارسی رمان یعنی همین کتاب، با عنوان: «ناطور دشت» با ترجمه ی «احمد کریمی» در دهه ی پنجاه هجری شمسی منتشر گردیده است.
"Oldukça cahilimdir, ama epey okurum."(H. Caulfield)
It's not even helpful, realistic, smart, beneficial ..." The answer is that the teenager is in a state of transition, moving from the relatively defined environment of childhood to the jungle of the adult world, and completely without tools to handle that journey.
It isn't necessarily the teenager's fault if nobody turns up where they wait to save lives, right?
You'll learn from them—if you want to.
It's poetry."Teenage minds are indeed more poetry than prose: fractured, fragmented, emotional, in the moment, beautiful and fleeting.
**Included on Time’s List of 100 Best Fiction of the 20th Century**If you really want to hear about it, the first thing you’ll probably want to know is what I thought about “The Catcher In the Rye”, and my reasons for liking it or disliking it, and possibly even how I felt about the work each of the four times I’ve wasted my time reading it, and all that 'Mein Kampf' kind of crap, but I don’t feel like going into it, if you want to know the truth.
راجع به کتاب، خیلی گفته شده و به نظرم حرفش این قدر رو هست که اصلاً نیازی به توضیح دادن نداره، خصوصاً برای کسایی که خودشون یا اطرافیانشون تجربیاتی مشابه هولدن داشته باشن.نکته ی اولی که به نظرم میرسه، اینه که شخصیت هولدن، اصلا و ابدا دوست داشتنی نیست و قرار نیست دوست داشتنی باشه.
همون طور که تا وقتی که خواهر کوچکش رو ندیده بود، با خودش فکر میکرد که از بین تمام دنیا، فقط خواهرش رو دوست داره، ولی همین که شبانه دیدش و باهاش صحبت کرد، احساس کرد داره ازش بیزار میشه.فکر میکنم مشکل هولدن، بیشتر از اون که با جهان اطرافش باشه، در درون خودشه.
...الناس أذواق يجب أن لا يكون لديكم شك في ذلك أعرف كثيرين لم ترق لهم هذه الرواية كما أعرف أن سالينجر
A spell in the army would do that young man a power of good! Or maybe a couple of bags of heroin. Anything to stop that whining voice....
"Oh, I don’t know. That digression business got on my nerves. I don’t know. The trouble with me is, I like it when somebody digresses. It’s more interesting and all.” Yes, this review eventually will be about the book. My reviews always are. I'm boring this way. I envy the ability of my friends to digress in their review space and tell me a story which in some way was inspired by something in the book they just read, or its blurb, or - god forbid now, in the land of GR censorship of anything th
His emotions are so raw and so sincere that I may disagree with some of them but I sure as hell can't ignore them.As we probably all know too well, The Catcher in the Rye has been one of the most challenged books of the 20th century, riling up the emotions and protests of the wannabe censors who thought it was their sacred duty to shield and protect the public from the work of literature that dared to offend their tender sensibilities.
Holden Caulfield is a character many, many people hate.
But he's a character that, for some strange reason, resonates with thousands of people.
But I think that doesn't quite get to the heart of it.
Holden is a fifteen-year-old kid on the verge of an emotional breakdown.
I was just as hypocritical and torn up inside as Holden is.
Holden is an asshole, granted.
But he is an asshole that it's hard not to relate to.
But it resonates with me, and with so many people I know, for the exact reason that it will be polarizing.

