https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/781410.Young_Adam
This tale of a drifter who has packed in his writing career and who chooses to spend his time faffin
H. Lawrence's classic book Lady Chatterley's Lover but that one is wordy being the old-school literary type of English novels.
He also was a heroin addict and battled drug addiction that eventually caused his death.The book opens with Joe fishing a dead body of a woman floating on the Hudson River one morning.
The problem and the tension start when Joe is captivated by Ella, Leslie's girlfriend.
So, Joe seduces Ella and they have to do their thing behind Leslie's back.
The book is probably Trocchi's most well-known, and I imagine it was very scandalous at the time it was published (1954), but for the most part I didn't really understand the hype.The book follows the narrator, Jack, a drifter who is working for Leslie, the skipper of a barge on the canal linking Glasgow and Edinburgh.
I also really enjoyed the fact that the majority of the setting was in Glasgow - it always gives me a good feeling to hear of streets, parks, and other locations that I am personally familiar with.I enjoyed this book for the most part, but unfortunately the pace was just far too slow for me in the end.
I loved the film made of this book that starred Tilda Swinton and Ewan McGregor. And because of the great film I read the book which was just as good. I had forgotten all about this particular little novel. I remember it being pretty damn sexy throughout the first half and then, as life generally goes, turning into despair.
Smoke over the black waters, with their depths and smells (or is it sounds, or is it a mix of sound and smell, as is suggested by either the writer or the writer behind the writer or the protagonist : there are three narrative voices you will have spotted., smoke as mist, as fog, as just formlessness, as cloud, as cloud that paints into other cloud, leaks, soggy - then the quick lurch into startling sharpness of the triangle motif, see how many you can spot including the one dangling from Saint Vitus the jerky tramp,and cranes and hawsers and one which is identified as definitely a symbol, but not 'of' anything known *which is exactly what symbols should be), and all these gantries and clashes of metal on metal are the hard girders of a structure or structures, so hard that they are as unbending as the mental structure of isolation, of the feeling of self (maybe too Joe feels this in the toilet drinking whiskey, just like any drinker) opposed to the leaking blending into shapelessness, dark depressions and dread which are the colour of wetness, and mud and soggy grass, and rain is never far away.
After reading what some prominent critics have said about this book, perhaps I have underrated it.
But I have given one star for each of the things Scottish novels so frequently have: murder, lots of drinking, and casual, mechanical sex.
Alexander Trocchi (1925-1984) is a talented stylist, to be sure.
I watched his Adam's apple move up and down as he spoke" (p.
Maybe that's how intellectuals circa 1950 saw things, but it seems pretty passé in our postmodernist world.
Still, "Young Adam" is a good read.
How could one not keep reading?
Хіба ледачий не поріняє “Молодого Адама” зі “Стороннім” Камю і на це є всі підстави. Втім, у Троккі головний герой навіть нікого не вбиває, жертва гине внаслідок нещасного випадку, але обставини такі, що розкажи він правду, в його невинуватість ніхто не повірить. На додачу, у вбивстві звинувачують и приговорють до страти зовсім не причетну людину. Абсурдність в тому, що людина винна за своєю природою, без всякого злочину, своєрідний релігійний чорний гумор Троккі відсилає до відомого біблійного міфу. Принаймні іншої теорії, яка би пояснювала назву роману в мене нема.
Read this a long, long time ago and a sentence still keeps haunting me, just the gist of it, not the exact words.
I recently found it, putting my books on shelves in my new apartment and am reading it again to find that one line.
The book was made into a breathtaking film with Ewan McGregor and Tilda Swinton in which there is a full frontal of McGregor naked that was just as haunting and startling as that sentence.
Trocchi's writing is gorgeous, poetic, sad, sexy.
Just as good and compelling on second read.
More people need to know about Trocchi.
Trocchi's drifter is one of a long line of literary drifters; amoralist facing moral dilemma. Unlike Camus' "Stranger" Trocchi's drifter commits a crime of which he goes unpunished and so we are deprived of the judgement of society but are treated to the self judgement of a man supposedly set adrift from the rules of humanity. A simple, direct prose and candid tone of voice belies a rich texture of ethical quandaries.
This could have been a higher rating, as I liked the twist, but I couldn't get past the objectifying and dehumanising way the narrator spoke about and treated women. (This is pretty hypocritical from me considering the last book I read was Tropic of Cancer, but allow me my opinion).
Much of the changes are matter of fact, as is the sex and the murder of a young woman.The sex is matter-of-fact in the way it’s described, but loses nothing for the lack of erotic detail.There’s also a growing guilt in Joe that he discusses openly as he considers how he might move forward in life, summing up all the possible consequences and then deciding to take on the one that seems to suit him best at the time.It’s a powerful, short read and I recommend it to the house.
A brilliantly crafted novel, with a creeping sense of dread from the first page to the last. It took until almost half way through the book for me to realise just how unreliable a narrator Joe was, so cleverly were little pieces of previously missed information added in. A great short story with many themes and aspects to keep me thinking for a long while yet.
I didn't have a chance to review this when I finished it yesterday as I was on a train. But I had to come back and say how absolutely wonderful I found it. Trocchi's writing is damn good and this book in it's few hundred pages was captivating and quite melancholic. I loved it.
A good read but I don't see why quite so much fuss is made over Trocchi.
Dark, compelling and generally very good indeed, apart from a tendency to overuse the word 'haunches' (I'm not even joking, it crops up every couple of pages!).
Ihan kun oisin missannut jotakin tätä lukiessa? Nopealukuinen, ihan kivaa tekstiä, omaan makuun jätti kuitenkin liikaa arvailujen varaan.
Сьогодні говорю про першу.Як вже потім пише в післямові - роман був просто романом з цікавим світоглядом героя та сюжетом, поки видавцям не треба було закласти туди побільше еротики.
Щоб читалося.
Але еротика ця заворожуюча і зрозуміла, якась така аж тваринна, тягуча, натуралістична.
Книга ведеться постійним внутрішнім діалогом головного героя, його мова то надто детальна, то дірява, розсипана, з прогалинами через речення.Цікавий досвід прочитання, книга маленька - щоб прочитати за один раз.
Але ще не знаю, чи перечитувати.
Низька оцінка через власні очікування - не завжди в руки трапляється саме "твоя" книжка.
The sparse sparks of sudden insights is the thing that makes this book worth reading. A simple one, but one of my favorites is this: "The familiarity was the familiarity of limbs out of control, of something missing that should have been there, the absence of which, more telling than what remains, strikes at one deeply, almost personally, making one feel that one is face to face with the subhuman". The things that speak to each of us usually differ, so I hope you read this for yourself and find something too.
I'm not that selfish, but plenty of people seem to have the protagonist's worldview. We rarely get the confession or questionable non-confession with the ring of truth though.Everyone lies, everyone liesWhere is the man you respect?And where is the woman you love?Where's the woman you love?
3.5
Un grande PICCOLO libro scozzese. Si legge nella biografia finale: "Cosmonauta dello spazio interiore, così amava definirsi lui",
And even if she were the mistress of one of them, I had created the thing for which I felt the sense of loss and it was not anyone else's to be enjoyed.'I found this passage and others made me turn around my thoughts of who and what Joe was (initially he was, in my mind, a killer) but ended up empathising with him and his brutal honesty in the dark landscape he inhabited.
As the novel progresses we find he is guilty of murder, is having an affair with Ella, the wife of Leslie, whose barge he lives and works on, and has done nothing in the past that he is particularly proud of.Adam does not have the same morality of other people.
The fact that he works on a barge between Glasgow and Edinburgh in the 1950’s shows his lack of roots, his willingness to move on, how he moves to his own beat, rather than the beat that his time and circumstances dictate.
Mildly sexy and disturbing. A sociopath, a murder and plenty of women; it has everything and yet nothing. There is an incident where the narrator throws a bowl full custard on his wife, spanks her and rapes her (maybe?). She likes it (maybe?).
I picked up this book because most of the reviewers said that it reminded them of The Outsider by Albert Camus.
I never thought that any book can even come close to make me feel what I felt when I read Camus's masterpiece.
This book is nowhere close to The Outsider or any of the Camus's work.
The story revolves around him and a corpse which he found in a river.
Well, a bit of it was here and there, but to call it an existential novel wouldn't be fair to Alexander Trocchi mostly because he never aimed it to be one.
(And sometimes, because of that, I wonder if the book was more effective than I first thought.) This one, Young Adam (no idea what the title means), also set predominantly within the confines of a small boat (!), will do the same, I can tell already.
Young Adam is painterly, ugly and a brutal story.
(The opening and perhaps most revelatory scene of the book is a floating corpse.)As an aside, I find it crazy that Trocchi also wrote several novels marketed as erotica before losing all interest in fiction to heroin: those books must be the least sexy porn out there.
I couldn't even feel sorry for the trammelled, battered, maritally raped, over-worked, under-valued, custard-drenched, drowned, widowed, joyless women because they were daft and weak enough to let him have anything to do with them.
It deserves four stars for use of language: evocation, style, well-structured sentences etc.
However, the content is two star stuff.
I'm sure it was written to be read by fellow pre-liberation brutal '50s men and a silly bint like me should get back to peeling spuds and leave books to the real, male, people, but even without my feminist sensibilities I'd have problems with the plotless drift of the work.
I liked controversial reads - something which I'm not so keen about now although now and then that little spark does rear it's head and i'll buy something a bit risque.YYoung Adam was the last Rebel Inc book and I bought that from the used bookstore which was in my hometown (now sadly moved to Malta's sister island, Gozo) As I was a voracious reader I finished it pretty quickly.The story is about a person who discovers a dead woman floating in the river.
Sometimes some books are read at the right moment and this was one of them.
After experiencing both, I still have no idea who the Adam of the title is supposed to be, because nobody in the story has that nomenclature, even Joe, the chain-smoking character who narrates the entire tale in first person.
The driving story, which begins with the discovery of a dead body floating in the River Clyde between Glasgow and Edinburgh, has a few plot twists which I won't relate here, eventually turns his sleazy musings into a bland tale of vague guilt mitigated by a condemnation of the society of which he is part but in which he chooses to play only a limited role.

