https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8709523-the-golden-lily
RICHELLE MEAD, I AM ABOUT TO TURN INTO A RAGING STRIGOI.THAT WAS SERIOUSLY THE WORST ENDING EVER.
LIKE WHAT THE--I CAN'T EVEN COMPREHEND HOW IDIOTIC SYDNEY IS.
ADRIAN IS CLEARLY MEANT TO BE WITH HER.*HEAVY, MURDEROUS BREATHING*THIS IS WHAT I FEEL LIKE DOING TO SYDNEY:Okay enough with the caps.The only thing is, I found it annoying how Adrian kept reiterating that he was a better person because of her.
And I don't usually fan girl for this type of thing.In conclusion, I hate you Richelle Mead.Just kidding.
I might turn into a monster if you don't allow Adrian and Sydney to be together.[image error]
I felt Sydney finally letting down her guard with the vampires and she really worried and cared about my Adrian, so big bonus points!
Sydney will need a lot of strength to break away from them like I hope she will eventually.It didn't help that Jill was discussing her own troubled love life with her.
She was completely out there and did whatever she wanted, causing a lot of trouble for Sydney.I just want to go on and on, especially about Adrian, but I must stop myself.
Cherry, especially.""I don't know," said Adrian thoughtfully.
"Ever had that happen? Once you can’t have something, you want it that much more.” “Yes,” he said bitterly. “It happens all the time.”    "I don't care if he's not the emotional type or the complimentary type or what. No one can look at you in this dress, in all that fire and gold, and start talking about anachronisms. If I were him, I would have said, 'You are the most beautiful creature I have ever seen walking this earth.”     “Sage?" Adrian lightly touched my arm, and I jumped at the feel
I love Adrian so much <3 <3 And right now I hate Sydney!
And then he admits his feelings about Sydney(shock) but she was like "ohh I am human ..you are vampire...
2)In the entire book Adrian found excuses to be around Sydney(He acted like he didn't know how to drive) and she didn't get it until the end of the book.
He grow up believing what they told him.5)Sonya, Adrian and Dimitri are doing some experiments to determine the changes a person who has been restored to Strigoi.
He wanted to know how his mother was and he treat Adrian like shit.
I just can't get enough of it!In Bloodlines, the focus was on learning about the Alchemists and Sydney bonding with her new group of "siblings." We do learn a bit about the Alchemists, magic, and even the so-called vampire hunters in The Golden Lily, but I felt the story mostly revolved around getting to know Sydney more and her evolving relationships with the characters around her.
I need book three.With amazing characters and relationships and a very intriguing story, Bloodlines is well on it's way to becoming one of my all time favorite series.
There is only one Rose Hathaway.
People are trying to protect her but no...she wants to be featured on magazines.
she's just useless in this book.4) Angeline - a joke.
Another rose wannabe?
I don't know.6) Adrian - what in the world has happened to you?I am heart broken.
My Adrian is no more.
Pair off with whoever you want.
If I miss you, I will read the VA series but not these.7) The whatever love triangles that will be happening there from book 3 onwards.
W-H-A-T-E-V-E-R!SO, I am done.4 more books to go?
Most sequels in a series tend to give me some doubts with their potentials because oftentimes an author changes his or her tune and the end product sometimes disappoints me.
I loved how The Golden Lily lived up to the interesting plot and romance that made the first book Bloodlines an enjoyable read.
In this book, Sydney Sage and Adrian Ivashkov's character was greatly developed as they continued to hide under the radar of the enemies of St. Vladimir Academy.
When you pair Sydney and Adrian together, everything collides so perfectly!!!Apart from that, Richelle Mead also made this book even more interesting because of the side characters like Eddie, Jill, Angeline, Sonya, Trey, Dimitri, etc.
(view spoiler)[ So I kind of guessed that Trey was a vampire hunter.
And after the first book, I kind of wondered if maybe all of those deaths were just Lee and not hunters...
Naturally I've been waiting for Adrian to tell Sydney how he felt for some time now.
But I dont think any of us were that surprised with how Sydney reacted.
I think he was an awesome FRIEND for Sydney, and they definitely have a lot they can talk about, but everyone could see there wasn't any passion.
(hide spoiler)]I can't wait to get the third book!
But after I found out it was centered on Sydney Sage, the awkward Alchemist, and Adrian the sexy, flippant but loveable Moroi, I was totally on board.
I loved Bloodlines and after reading this, I think the series just keeps getting better.
Sydney, Jill, and Eddie continue to attend Amberwood Prep as siblings but they have a new addition to assist in the protection of Jill: Angeline, the dhampir from the Keepers, a separatist group of Moroi, dhampir, and humans who don't care for the rules of the Moroi court.
I think this is because both Sydney and Adrian are not fighters.
SERIOUSLY?????????????
I HAVE TO WAIT UNTIL JUNE NOW???????????????????????
WTF HAPPENED TO THE MARCH RELEASE?
OR EVEN THE MAY RELEASE???????????????all I'm gonna say is that if Adrian and Sydney don't kiss AT LEAST once in this book I will be forced to go out and kill someone.................................................................................................................................................................................................................OK so now that I finished the bookI WILL GO AND CRY MYSELF TO SLEEP TONIGHT BECAUSE I NOW LOVE ADRIAN AND FEEL SO FREAKING BAD FOR HIM AND I FEEL TERRIBLE FOR JILL AND HAVE COMPLETELY CONFLICTING FEELING FOR SYDNEYI mean honestly I don't know if I should admire her or hate her with a passion right now
they're all the ones that know just where to hit me: Adrian and Sydney***okay, i still haven't actually read this book, but I just wandered onto The Indigo Spell, and now i feel like i really, really, really have to read it!
oh, Adrian, I'm scared to read this just because of everyone's crazy reactions to the end of The Golden Lily (as seen through the Bloodlines 3 link) and i know it's about you!
I suppose that could mean heaps of people, but I want it to be either about Sydney with Adrian/Trey or Jill with Eddie/Micah oh!
After Reading it:WHAT?I MEAN...WHAT???????????????????????????YOU CAN'T DO THIS TO ME, RICHELLE, YOU CAN'T.
I don't think there are words to describe what I'm feeling, so I will just...[image error]I WILL NOT WAIT TILL FEBRUARY (but sadly, I will *NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO*).
Finally on my shelf <3 My love, keep waiting just a little bit till I finish my exams and then we will finally be together....
And the new teaser quote...?Perhaps the best part of all was that I, Sydney Katherine Sage, guilty of constantly analysing the world around me, well, I stopped thinking.This teaser is simply cruel***20/04/12 - Ok, I keep thinking about this book.
Richelle, what have you done to me??
hello my name is kat and this reread is rUINING me.
"Rose once told me about this poem she'd read. There was this line, 'If your eyes weren't open, you wouldn't know the difference between dreaming and waking.' You know what I'm afraid of? That someday, even with my eyes open, I still won't know."  We always knew Adrian battled with the darkness that comes along with wielding spirit magic but something about this book really drove it home to me. In the original VA series, Adrian hid so much of his pain with a heavy dose of alcohol and humor. He
His determination to do right by the people he protects has always made me compare him to a junior version of Dimitri and it made me smile with a sense of pride when he was told that exact same thing in this book.
[image error]Dimitri (age 24) Okay, so you're not a prominent character in this book but thanks for being there in some form, even if it's just to assist and protect.
"You probably want to learn to use those right away." He pointed at the nunchucks.I caught sight of Adrian's face in the mirror.
I had some vague recollections of things Adrian had said (because, come on, who can forget what Adrian says?), the climax, and the scene where Adrian remarked about Sydney's eyes being like "molten gold." At first, I thought, "Oh, it's just you; the first book couldn't have been that unmemorable" -- but, after reading The Golden Lily, I'm not so certain.On the one hand, I understand: in terms of plot arcs, Bloodlines is proving to be a tamer beast than Vampire Academy.
I read VA two years ago and started Bloodlines a few months ago and after liking the first book in the series considerably a lot, I decided to continue the series, and I stand by my decision.Sydney is such a smart character and so different from Rose, the only trait I've noticed these two share, is that of being protective of their friends, and that's one hell of a trait to share.
It took me longer to finish this one. Still enjoyable but also again very predictable. So far it's mirroring the Vampire Academy series so I know it's just going to get better as the books go along! Adrian is still so lovable, but Eddie is still one of my favorite characters!
In one scene, Angeline asked the sagest question ever.Together, Sydney, Adrian, Jill, Eddie and Angeline combine into the perfect family!I also was completely amazed by the story.
I really liked the scene with a certain father.I completely never imagined how alike Sydney and Adrian would become.
I am still reminiscing the conversations between Sydney and Adrian in my mind and rushing home to grab my copy of The Golden Lily to read those scenes again.Now for the vampire hunter sub-plot and major challenge that the marvelous Bloodline main characters overcome brilliantly.

Adrian has always been my favorite character of the VA series, and all you Dimitri fangirls are going to realize just how awesome he is sooner or later, maybe during this book, maybe later.
And a Richelle Mead book without a crazy love triangle?
Jill does the mature thing in breaking up with Micah, but right after she’s like “oh now that I’ve broken up with him, maybe I can go out with him!” and I’m just yanking my hair out.
Oh wait, that'd be a love square.•Jill ends up with Eddie or realizes she has feelings for him after she sees him with Angeline.
I'm not quite sure if i'm Team Jill or Team Angeline for Eddie yet!Trey was in this book a lot more and i LOVED his scenes with Sydney - particulary, some of the things he said to Sydney about dating made me laugh out loud :D I think Trey is a realy interesting character and i am really curious to see where his loyalties lie in future books.
I’ve had my mind made up about you for a long time…and it’s all good.” I was astonished to see Adrian watching me, a look of contentment on his face.
It's not that I didn't enjoy it, but I was mourning the fact that Rose and Dimitri's story is truly over, but after re-reading it again to prepare myself for Golden Lily, I'm pleased to say that I properly fell in love with this series like I was meant to from the beginning.You know, I'm not sure what I should say in this review.
A big part of me want to scream and gush about everything that happened, but since this doesn't come out till June, I'm gonna try to keep this spoil-free as much as I can.I really loved this installment.
Better than Bloodlines, and yet still only as good as the last Vampire Academy book, in my opinion.
Sydney: much less annoying than in the previous book, but her issues are so predictably and rather clumsily written that it's hard to get attached to her.
Still, she has a couple of decent, non-mousy scenes towards the end.Jill: seriously, just let a hunter have her.Adrian: some redeeming scenes here and there, but not nearly as attractive or as intriguing as he was in VA.
It's disappointing that one of my favorite (formerly) crush-worthy boys has become so sullen and uninteresting.Onto book three next year!
This trilogy already seems to be stretched pretty thinly, even though the books are decently sized.
Adrian VS Eddie who will you choose?me: Actually, I will take both. Thank you very much.Rating:  4-shipping this so hard-stars Everything is back to normal in Palm Springs. Except, it's never normal when dealing with vampires. Sydney, once again, has to deal with the Moroi living with her. She still hates it. Or does she? She's starting to question everything the alchemists have taught her.In other words: everything she believed in. And after some shocking revelations. Things are about to get ev
He protected Sydney multiple times and started to better himself.
And for someone who's not in love with Adrian, she sure acts like his wife.
She claims that she doesn't know anything about love and relationships but I know better.“Nothing he said could change what I think of you.
And that makes her such a great character.Adrian+ Sydney= SydrianTheir chemistry was off the charts!
The way he loves Jill is just....awww.JillI liked her A LOT!
A hamster, honestly.Jill + Eddie=Fanfiction I'm going to write aboutIf you can help me with a ship name, that would be great!
There was a REASON why it took me so long to read Bloodlines, and that was because I wasn't sure I wanted to see Adrian written with someone else.
For the sake of not spoiling the book, the story meticulously unfolded in a way that even though it wasn't totally action packed, it keeps the reader intrigued from beginning to end.But the thing that was so great about this book was character development.
A friend is on a mission to convince me that Sydney was an AWESOME character, and I admit, she was a great heroine because she wasn't your typical badass.
I'm enjoying this more than the Vampire Academy series because it's more complex, has darker theme and filled with wonderful characters.
The story starts on what's left on the previous book as Sydney continues to protect the remaining family member (aside from Vasilissa Dragomir - who is now a Queen) of the Dragomir clan, Jill Mastrano Dragomir along with the dhampirs, Eddie & Angeline.
Oh, let's not forget the hot vampire, Adrian Ivashkov who is still healing from a heartbreak from Rose Hathaway (grr).
More secrets in the Alchemy world, a new group threatening the vampires, an experiment to prevent Strigoi conversion and Sydney exploring relationship.
Oh sweet deliverance. Be still my beating heart and all that stuff. “Adrian stood there leaning against the doorframe, watching me with his heart in his eyes. In my chest, my own heart was breaking. On my cheek, the lily reminded me who I was. ”  I have to admit that at first I thought that this spin-off series would be somewhat found lacking compared to Vampire Academy. *hangs head in shame*The truth is that, what keeps it from being awesome is the lack of a major, hardcore archenemy. Strigoi a
Be still my beating heart and all that stuff.
“Adrian stood there leaning against the doorframe, watching me with his heart in his eyes.
In my chest, my own heart was breaking.
*hangs head in shame*The truth is that, what keeps it from being awesome is the lack of a major, hardcore archenemy.
On the other hand, the Warriors of Light make a slight attempt to fill the incredibly empty shoes that Strigoi-Dimitri left behind.They don't hold a candle to him.But then.Adrian and Sydney.Torn.
That's what you are.You will desperately want to bitchslap Sydney.
With The Golden Lily, Richelle Mead once again proved that the world she created for Rose and now Sydney is magical and alluring and that, due to that fact, she can get away with a lot.
The second half showed signs of an actual plot – certainly an improvement over the first, or the almost plotless Bloodlines.
There was a noticeable improvement over Bloodlines and I certainly liked her more this time, but making her seem stupid in order to further complicate the plot (or hide the fact that there is none) isn’t the way to go.
Wow. Look at that cover!I'm guessing it's Jill on the left and Sydney on the right.
not what I expected.
I was thinking it was going to follow VA's color scheme.
I'm glad it's not, though, because, I mean, who wants a clone?Edit 8.31.11Okay.
First, it was March 1, 2012.
Now it's June 17, 2012.
Is anyone else as frustrated with these pushbacks as I am?
I get it, I get it, yadda-yadda, Mead had a baby and she needs time with it.
But now that he is actually birthed and she's already finished it, does she really need 10 months to edit?
⭐3,5 - 4⭐
I'm glad that Brayden did what he did by the end of the book because he was super BORING.
He and Sydney are way more similar than we thought.
However, I hope that as Sydney continues to grow and change her opinions, Trey does this as well.
I kind of want to see her go a little crazy....I really don't want to give too much away to those who haven't read the first book but all I'll say is this series is great and it truly just gets better and better.
