https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41952.The_Lilac_Bus
في مساء كل يوم جمعة يتلاقى 8 أشخاص في حافلة للعودة لبلدتهم بعد أسبوع عمل في المدينةكلهم من بلدة صغيرة, لكنهم مختلفين في أعمالهم ومعيشتهم وتفكيرهمكل واحد منهم له حكاية وأسرار تحكيها الكاتبة بأسلوب بسيط وجميلرواية لطيفة عن الناس وطرق حياتهم المتقاطعة
It's a novella and several totally unrelated short stories, and nowhere does the book let you know that's what's going on.
So you read The Lilac Bus and there are interesting characters.
Then you start reading stories about other interesting characters and you keep wondering how the hell they all relate, until finally you go online and discover they don't relate.
At all...And none of the stories have endings.
I can write about interesting characters in interesting situations, if I can just quit at some point, with no resolution.
It's not that the stories have BAD endings.
They have NO endings.
I think Maeve Binchy wrote this on one crazy acid trip! She's writing this story and I'm getting really into the characters and story, then zip they're gone. SO she starts another story and I keep thinking that at some point they will tie in together. Nope! Another story starts then another. She should have titled this "a collection of short stories without real endings!"
I didn't like how many of the stories seemed unresolved at the end, and especially the one about the wife who had invited everyone, including her husband's mistress, to a dinner party, I felt was too suspenseful, with no pay-off at the end, a big leading up to nothing, just a cliff hanger left unresolved.
I enjoyed some of Lilac Bus stories, and did not like others.
There were some nice stories near the end, especially about the girl Cathy who finds herself pregnant, like her sister had thought a few years before, and what you'd do with an unwanted pregnancy in a family like hers.
I really liked Maeve Binchy's ability to weave together the stories of so many different characters without leaving you confused, only wanting more.
I like the formatting of looking at one event from many character's perspectives, Binchy did that with Silver Wedding and I really like it.My only criticism would be that the publisher's did not make it clear that Dublin 4 is a separate volume of short stories and not part of The Lilac Bus. Many others have pointed this out and if I had not known that already, I would have been very confused.
I have enjoyed all the books I've read by her and I think I've rated them very high.So, when I chose this book.
Even after reading 1/2 the book, I was enjoying it.
I was confused because none of the characters on the Lilac Bus were appearing in this part of the story.
The second part was like, forget about the lilac bus, we would like to introduce you to some other folks who live in Dublin and talk about their drama.
I don't think I've read a more confusing book.If you are a first time reader of Maeve Binchy, I beg of you, do not start with this one.
Don’t bother
Not the cheeriest stories, but they had interesting characters.
Too many unfinished storiesI really wanted to like this book, which started to tell the separate stories of the people that rode the lilac bus. However, it added completely separate stories about people who had nothing to do with the bus riders or their lives. Each story was only half finished. Very disappointing.
The latter part of the book though deals with some other people who are living in Dublin and have issues all their own.
I wish I could write a better description, but really, that's what the book is about.Since we only get to see these people for limited amounts of time (even if they do appear in each other's stories) there is no real connection here.
For the people on the Lilac bus we only hear about their lives for the space of a weekend.
The latter part of the book the stories encompass more time, but still have no resolution.
I loved that again, like in her other books, the characters were all connected somehow, and even in each of the short stories about the characters they all speak of the same events happening through different eyes.I couldn't pick a favourite character as I related so much to their stories and their look on life, the two stories I liked the best were Judy and Kev's just because they were funny to read and so unpredictable.
I'm giving the book 4 stars instead of 5 because I really didn't like Nancy Morris but I think she was written to be hated by the reader.
What the description of this “book” fails to do, is indicate that it’s not really a book - it’s multiple short stories, none of which have endings.
The 3 or 4 Maeve Binchy books I’ve read before have multiple characters and as you get further along, you realize everyone is connected, and everything is clear by the end.
It’s just multiple short stories, nothing is tied together and there’s no endings which left me wondering what was the point of reading this.
Actually, I liked several of the characters - I just don’t get why the stories ended at their peaks?
Yazarın farklı bir tarzı var, farklı gözlerden aynı döneme bakıyor ve sonda değerlere değinerek konu toparlanıyor, beklenmedik bir son ama herhalde aynı yazarın başka bir kitabını okusam hoşuma gitmez.
Enjoyed this. Short stories about the lives of the people who catch the Lilac Bus from Dublin to their village. They sort of interlink with each other. Quaint, enjoyable read.
Picked this up in a charity bookshop in Belfast. It was nice to read while actually visiting Northern Ireland and Ireland (Dublin) myself :)
another wonderful Binchy novel.
I consistently enjoy all that Maeve Binchy has written; her insights into Irish personages and families is remarkable. I strongly recommend this book.
Disappointing and DarkI had read some Maeve Binchy novels a few years ago and enjoyed the sweet characters. This book contains a series of vignettes of people in rather dark situations. I suppose I would say that Maeve Binchy has gathered stories of stress, unhappiness and depressing times. I thought the characters would at some point interact, but they didn’t.
The first half of the book is written with each chapter being narrated by a different person who rides the Lilac Bus. The bus is a minivan whose driver picks up people at 6 p.m. on Friday in Dublin (where they work during the week) and drops them at their doorstep in their hometown about 10 p.m. and returns them to the same stop in Dublin for the next work week.
The characters also comment on each other in their narrative and it is funny to see how each views the others.The remainder of the book is three short stories.
Each chapter is from each passengers point of view and you learn the different reasons they take the lilac bus back home every weekend.
The thing that killed me was at the end of the chapter, it kind of left you hanging.
And you never get an answer because after you read each person's chapter, the book goes into a totally different direction and gives you 4 short stories that are completely not related to the lilac bus or anyone who rides it.
Then those short stories had the same writing style and would build up the story, then leave you hanging again with no endings or resolutions.
The author of this book has a similar problem to me - she writes the summaries, and tried to expand them into a story, or in this case, a group of stories.The novella is reasonably well done.
An interesting look at three days through the eyes of eight different people.The biggest problem with this book is the fault of the publisher: Once you reach the four short stories included at the end, you think it is an extension of the original novella - perhaps six months, or a year later.
There is no notice at the beginning of the book that it is one novella with four unrelated short stories following.The four short stories are good, though a few could use more development.
I started off liking this book. I thought it was a novel and was interested in the characters and all. However, the book flipped to a new set of characters, and then another story, and then a new set of characters, and so on. It was then when I sorely realized that I've been burned again by a short story book masquerading as a novel. I kicked myself by not researching it first, because I hate short stories. So if you hate them, like me, be forewarned. I wish I could recover the wasted time reading this.
Have you read any Maeve Binchy? She’s like the modern woman’s dark chocolate. This has a bit of love story, a bit of travel, and a bit of art. It’s the sort of tale where you meet a group of people and instantly want to know them and take them on an adventure. Nothing too tough here, but nothing too cheese-y, either. You’ll just feel better, after.
One of the better Binchy offerings if I recall rightly.
I really disliked the first chapter and all the references back to it that were meant to be funny I think, but I think this was the one place where the author was a bit nasty to one of the characters.There is a hint of romance- after all the relationships and situations gone wrong, after all the loneliness and hints of sadness of all the characters there is a quiet coming together that may or may not turn out at the end.
I liked it a lot better than more passionate romances that take over the plot- and it seemed there was genuine attraction behind it.It still wasn't completely my cup of tea, but I could see why a lot of people would love this sort of writing (anyone who likes the Anne of Green Gables series for example).
I really love Maeve Binchy's books, so I hate to give this one such a low rating, but it just fell flat for me.
If this is the first book you've read by her, don't take this as her usual style.
Usually her stories are uplifting and segue from one to the other, but this one just fell flat.
I generally don't even like short stories, I would rather read a full novel, which she has plenty of those, and all wonderful.
If you like short stories, you will enjoy this one)and really enjoyed it; so thought I would give this one a try.
I enjoyed this book of short stories that are linked because they are all about the passengers and driver of a small bus that takes people from Dublin back to their small village every weekend.
We get in on the story behind each person and why they act the way they do as observed by the others on the bus.
It was recommended by the only male member of our book club.
An extra bonus is the addition of another group of 4 short stories that are under the heading of Dublin.
A real disappointment I am a fan of Maeve, enjoyed all the other books but was really disappointed in this one. The first half went very well learning about the people on the bus. All of a sudden it was like the story stopped and I found myself in the middle of another story. There was never an explanation but I kept reading believing that all these characters would eventually wind up linked with the characters from the bus. Never happened, what did I miss, all those stories each with no purpose.
Oh Maeve!!!To be fair, I think this was cobbled together after her death. I liked the first part about the passengers on the bus. Then, without warning, I’m reading a short story about completely unrelated characters. So I don’t blame Mrs. Binchey as much as I do what can only be assumed are greedy heirs, greedy publishers, or both. As a fan of Maeve Binchey’s work, THIS is one that you can miss and be no worse off!!
Another lovely story of ordinary people with extraordinary secrets in their lives. Maeve Binchy handles these stories with utmost care and craft, leading her readers down a gentle path filled with sunlit glades, and the occasion bramble patch. Ms. Binchy never, ever disappoints. I have read most of her books more than 5 times each, and each reading is like coming back to a much loved place filled with much loved friends.
