https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29103028-the-queen-s-poisoner
Lady Eleanor and Lord Kiskaddon decided to send Owen, they had to do this or their whole family would be killed.
He's so afraid of being away from his family and that he is going to be killed by the King.
She starts to train Owen in things he needs to do to win over the King and it's not what you may think.
The book is about Owen and what all he has to do to try to save his family and figure out his life plan.
Yes, Owen gets taken in as the King’s hostage, and yes, he finds a woman who helps him to “survive.” But the thing is, I never got the feeling while reading this that he was in all that much danger.
I never felt the fear.And without the element of real danger, I couldn’t get into the novel like I wanted to.
Again, I may be too demanding of a reader, but I want to feel this woman’s pain that her husband and her eldest son are in danger and her worry over not knowing what’s going to happen.
Owen, a shy and serious seven-year-old, was easy to fall in love with and I immediately empathized with his plight.
He is not alone in this aptitude, as Owen soon learns when he meets the mysterious Ankarette Tryneowy, the former Queen's poisoner.Owen's friendship with Lady Elysabeth Victoria Mortimer made interesting reading, and I adored joining them on their childish and daring adventures.
Learning of their quirky ways gave light respite from the surrounding story of political intrigue.
Owen is a child and yet his inner-monologues often do not read as one who is such, leading to some ambiguity to also arise over his character.
It's a typical knights in armor, king in a castle fantasy story with the power of sight and mysticism thrown in.
The author does draw inspiration from the War of the Roses however, quite blatantly (white boar badge, drowning in a hogshead of wine, boys in a tower, someone with a crookback, main character actually called Duke of Gloucester, etc), but what he imagines to work along with these historical references leaves one with a delightful read, especially if read to you.REREAD SO I CAN CONTINUE THE SAGA.
I DONT REMEMBER THE TALE.Summer Fantasy Fest read #7
I'm a fan of Jeff Wheeler and have enjoyed his 3 trilogies in the Muirwood and Mirrowen worlds, and came into this book expecting The Queen's Poisoner to be much of the same, but it was different.Although Wheeler's writing style is still clear throughout, unlike his other books, this story follows a child, 8-year old Owen, as the main character.
The characters are entertaining (Mancini is my favorite), bringing humor and intrigue to the story.As Owen begins to feel the magic of the Fountain, we get a lot of foreshadow, hints, and small demonstrations of what the magic entails, but the magic is not what drives the plot in The Queen's Poisoner-- it's the characters.
4 starsReview to comeFree for Kindle UnlimitedOk ...THAT WAS GREAT!!If you don't like a slow build fantasy with a shit ton of strategy and politics ... then this book will not be for you.But like ... that happens to be a list of all the things I love!Also there is no romance for all of you out there who are clambering for less googly eyes in your fantasy books.Awesome awesome awesome ... and I can't wait to see where this series goes because this book laid down a pretty strong foundation here!
At one point around one-fourth in, I nearly put it down as I wasn't enjoying the story told from the perspective of an eight-year old boy, Owen Kiskaddon, who was very shy and timid but seemed to be special.
Then the titular character showed up and I was sufficiently intrigued to keep on reading.
The story itself was fairly good and made up of a cast of fairly diverse characters.
While I wasn't completely taken in yet because of the almost childish tone, the next book seems promising as it leaps forward by nine years.
Ya'll, I am exhausted.Truth be told, I probably would have been better off DNFing this one, but I'm stubborn and had already made it 60% in before I started to realize that the story was actually going absolutely nowhere. So the remaining 40% became an exercise in stamina and fortitude for me and boy was it a challenge!  What Drew Me In:  I'm a sucker for High Fantasy. Magic, Kings, Queens, Knights, Vicious backstabbings in houses of nobility, it all appeals to me. The premise of this one caught
If you're going to write from the perspective of an 8 year old child, you cannot have him making intelligent leaps and sweeping judgement about people's hidden character the way he did numerous times throughout the story.
He read like a 30 year old man trapped inside an 8 year old's body.All of the main female supporting characters are loving, kind, and maternal only.
It takes 10% of the story for Owen to finally nickname her "Evie," and even when that happens, she is still referred to as "Elysabeth Victoria Mortimer," or "Lady Mortimer" by the narrator, every time.
Once the world building was laid out the writing was more enjoyable.We follow Owen as a young boy at the Kings palace as ransom to keep his father, a Duke, in check.
At the castle he meets a girl his age nicknamed Evie who he grows close to and helps him be brave.I dont know if it was Owens age but I struggled to connect with him as a character.
I know a lot of people love character driven stories and I think they would enjoy this book more than I did because for the most part the characters were compelling.* Received a copy in exchange for an honest review*
All that matters little except for those who are deep into that English period and are noting all the parallels.The book begins with an interesting focus on a young (eight year old) boy being ripped from his noble family in order to be held as hostage for the behavior of his parents.
We meet "the Queen's poisoner" and get some sense of a type of magic that pervades myth and may affect our young protagonist.
Others, are more "stock" characters we have seen in all of these medieval England-type stories.
Perhaps as the characters age, Wheeler's problem will solve itself.
This just showed up on my Kindle yesterday! I've never even heard of this book before. Either someone who i share my password with bought it without my permission (dick move) or i preordered it and forgot about it, because it just came out today, i believe. Whatever, at least it sounds like something i would read.
So, this was good...(I'm already finished with book two and just bought book three. I might be binge-reading and understating a little bit).
I would love to go into more gushing detail about the fountain-blessed but I don't want to spoil anything.I was about halfway through the story before I realized how much of this book is based on The Cousins War. Ankarette is telling Owen the story of the old King Eredur.
The author says in his note at the end, that this is, in a way, based on what might have happened if the Tudor's had never seized the throne from King Richard.
And of course, if King Richard and other's had the powers of the fountain at hand.The story telling here is subtle.
4.5 stars, nearly 5. Well I whipped through this in no time at all. It was a fantastic well paced, well told story. Court intrigue, political manoeuvring, poisoners (obviously!), spies, hostages, magic. Loved it.
This was such a pleasant read, light and yet engaging. Highly recommend it, if you're in the mood for Medieval-inspired court intrigues and secrets!
This book was really entertaining, it has a good story and I appreciated the main character development and the side characters/villains.
Specifically (view spoiler)[ why would people trust a complete stranger right away and why would people share secrets with an 8 year old kid even before knowing him?
I also had some issues with the description of some conflict, such as the ruling king and the "exiled" queen; and the relationship between the king and his niece and the niece's relationship with the queen's poisoner and Owen.
(hide spoiler)]I really enjoyed the queen's poisoner and the Mortymer girl.
somewhat less-tongue-tied nervous nelly who is not so overwhelmed anymore), it's not really that satisfying and he has no mystery or unpredictability to him; likewise, Ankarette is pretty predictable once you get to know her, and sometimes seems like she's only there to dispense backstory and work behind the scenes to propel the plot.The best thing this novel has going for it is the dialogue, which is actually quite good, and is the only reason (along with the good characters mentioned above) that I give a rating of two stars instead of one.
3⭐ Good, but slow paced A very slow paced book in which nothing inherently interesting happens. The beginning is full of great drama but twenty pages in, the rush flattens and stays at the same pace throughout. The characters didn’t stand out too much. I’d say Owen and the King steal the show, but even they were very two dimensional. The plot wasn’t too predictable, which was a relief, but lacked a uniqueness that would have made me really enjoy this book. It was a pleasant read, but I’m not sur
3⭐️ Good, but slow paced A very slow paced book in which nothing inherently interesting happens. The beginning is full of great drama but twenty pages in, the rush flattens and stays at the same pace throughout. The characters didn’t stand out too much. I’d say Owen and the King steal the show, but even they were very two dimensional. The plot wasn’t too predictable, which was a relief, but lacked a uniqueness that would have made me really enjoy this book. It was a pleasant read, but I’m not sure I’ll stick around for the next four books.
Wow.I rarely give five stars...this one is SO good...definitely worth five!!...or six.... I am anxious for the next installment in May. This is so fun! I had many suppositions as I read..and they were all turned on their ears. This book surprised me multiple times. You will not be sorry you read it!!!!
The author tells that he wrote this book inspired by some true events in Britain's history.
The story is told from 8 year old boy's perspective.
The boy's father, a Duke, refused to assist the reigning King in the war thinking that the opposite party will win the war and will be King in the future.
However, the reigning King win the war and throw the first born son of Duke, who resides with reigning King, over the waterfalls killing him for his father's treason.
The Duke and his wife chose eight born son, our hero, 8 year old.
Olimpos Yayınları çevirmiş bunu. Çok sevindim ve şaşırdım. Migros'a 9.90a gelmesi için sabırsızlanıyorum. Bu tarz yayınevleri bize bu yüzden lazım! :P
there really wasnt very much plot, just a lot of set dressing.
WAS there a message?kind of spoilers idk (view spoiler)[ i thought it was a REALLY weird choice to have one of the omly action sequences in the book and what surely SHOULD have been the climax summed up in 2 lines in a journal entry after the fact.
(hide spoiler)]i did like the mythology of the fountain; i thought those parts were really pretty.
i would have liked to see more development from that and the titular queen herself.
Actual rating 4.5 stars--------------------
Another 4 star book made into 5 stars by Kate Rudd's amazing narration. And it's also another great series that's "read and listen for free" if you have kindle unlimited.
More like 4.5 Stars 🌟 I really enjoyed the audiobook! The story isn't exactly action-packed, but I liked the characters, the atmosphere and the storytelling. I'm looking forward to read the sequels and continue with Owen's story :)Edit, after reading the next two books: I loved the series and how everything came together. Definitely among my favorite reads of 2018!
4 STARS - I REALLY LIKED THIS SERIES!AUDIOBOOKS*Review for books 1, 2 & 3*The Queen's Poisoner The Thief's Daughter The King's TraitorYes!
I really liked this.
It's well written, has a storyline that sucked me in and I loved the characters.This is first and foremost a fantasy novel.
In books 2 & 3, the main characters are older and so love does exist in their lives although it is very clean, and the romance may or may not exist between the characters you think it will.
Still, this is primarily a fantasy novel.
This book was just What I needed! Good writing, the audio was great and the story really stuck with me!
this sounds so darn epic! i'm getting lots of GoT-esque vibes yaaass!! on the asap shelf it goes 😃
An excellent start do an epic fantasy based on English history. Well worth reading.
I didn't know by the end of the book where Wheeler was going to take that portion of the story.For the most part, Owen was a believable character - although at times he acted in ways that weren't consistent with his age.
And if an author can genuinely pull me into the story to the point that I am invested in the characters and I HAVE to know what happens next, it negates so many of the smaller issues in a book.
