https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/761798.The_Girl_in_the_Plain_Brown_Wrapper
If you were a rich widow who was dying from cancer and one of your two daughters, who had been stable and happily married for years, suddenly and mysteriously went bat shit crazy including memory loss and suicide attempts, would you:A) Pour all your money and remaining time into medical and psychological doctors to try and help while also setting up a safe and protected environment for her?B) Contact a shady stranger who you had a romantic fling with after your husband died and beg him to help her?Most people would probably pick option A, but I guess it would have been a pretty short book if the widow hadn't chosen option B.Travis McGee, the self-proclaimed salvage expert who specializes in getting back money and goods taken through scams, returns after spending weeks out on his boat and finds a letter from Helena, a woman he had helped years before and had a brief romance with.
The bright spot in this book, published in 1968, was his brutal (for the time) honesty about race as it intersected with commerce, law enforcement, sex, and justice.The dialogues between Travis and Lorette, a black maid at the hotel he is staying at, is almost worth the entire price of admission.
I kept reminding myself that this book was MacDonald's 10th McGee novel and published in 1968.
His perspective on race was refreshing and honest, given the time and place.
Sadly, by the time McGee arrives, Helena has succumbed to her cancer and so McGee is left to feel his way through a very complicated situation if he's going to be of any help.As is usually the case in one of these novels, things get complicated in a big hurry.
There's not as much action in this book as in most of the others in the series--things are a bit more cerebral--and there's not a hulking, giant, Neanderthalish brute of an adversary as there often is.
References to the Pill (Macdonald’s caps, not mine), Walter Cronkite (kids, he was a network news anchor, back when that meant anything), and an antiquated take on sex and race stood out.He doesn’t treat women “badly”, it’s just that he comes across as Travis, amateur sex therapist, the guy with the answer to every woman’s problems because they dig him so much.
There isn’t a dead body until about two-fifths of the way into the book.
Although Meyer, McGee’s economist pal, isn’t in this book much, he is one of the cooler literary sidekicks for this genre.McDonald’s a fine writer and this is a good read, minor flaws and all.
Travis McGee receives a letter from a woman he had a brief romance with years ago; she is dying and asks McGee to help her daughter, Maureen.
McGee learns the woman died before he got the letter.
Typical of the time it was written, the story is racist and sexist.
The story takes place in Florida as do most of his books.
The language is also typical of the time frame.
It is sort of fun to step back in time and see how far society has come, or not.I read this as a paperback.
BOOK 55: Mid-20th Century North American Crime Readathon (Round 2)From 1968, the Summer of Love: MacDonald must have been under the influence.HOOK=4 stars: McGee learns that a past love has died on the very day he has completed (resurrected?) a marine salvage job.
I liked this contrast very much and immediately I want to know more of the dead woman-Helena Pearson-and more about what was salvaged and why it was there in the first place.PACE=3: During the first few chapters, McGee thinks about Helena and then gets a letter from her, written the day before she died.
The best rendition of the I HATE TRAVIS McGEE point-of-view may be Amanda’s one star GoodReads review: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...The gals have their Loveswept, Silhouette & Harlequin tubes-through-the-roof romance novels—the guys have our Phillip Marlowe, Travis McGee & Jack Reacher balls-to-the-wall action novels.BROWN WRAPPER is half way into the Travis McGee series, #10 I think, when John D.
By page 103 Travis is questioned by two detectives—because the woman half of the pair who tried to question him at gunpoint was found murdered, and Travis is the main suspect.I don’t like the plot for BROWN WRAPPER, but I can’t think of any way to improve anything.
David Bowman published an intriguing list of post-Chandler noir novels on Salon a few years back.
In this one — part John Updike, part “Jane Eyre” — the lethal Florida beach bum/sexual healer attempts to rescue a housewife held captive in suburbia by her hubby’s mind-control drugs." It's an enjoyable read, slightly clunky and long-winded in places, surprisingly insightful and well written in others, but not as good as the other random McGee title I picked up a few years back: "The Dreadful Yellow Sky." Neither approach the other books on Bowman's list such as "Tapping the Source" and "Children of Light."
MacDonald.
***.Hold on to your hats and seat.
MacDonald usually manages to hold his McGee adventures to about 300 pages – at least in the paperback series that I’ve been reading.
In this tale, you reach about page 280 and realize that he has to wrap the case up.
He does, in a whirlwind way using several of the hokiest techniques that have been developed by writers: A dictated summary of the case into a tape recorder; the use of a totally new character who only appears in the book for a few pages, but who has the legal authority to look into the case.
This is probably the weakest adventure I’ve come across so far.
Unfortunately, this was a weak book in the series. This isn't a four star, (most TM series are) it's clearly a three. Weak storyline is why it get three stars from me. My last read (#2) I gave it a four. I think age is making me a tougher critic! OMG, Katy bar the door!
Good old Trav!!! This one is a little sad but he lives to carry on !!
Best one yet
She has tried to commit suicide three times since her last miscarriage and Helena seems to think that Travis would be one that could get through to her and help her recover mentally from it all.
What Travis finds after flying in to see the family that he once helped and loved is a scene that is more messed up than even Helena seemed to think it was.
I have read a few of the Travis McGee mysteries that were written after this book and I must say that my favorite part of any of them is the wonderful character of Travis McGee. He is a laid back kind of guy who just wants to help others in any way he can if he thinks he can.
Often, he confronts conmen, swindlers, and just mean ones, but he is about as unofficial and off-the-books as they come.This entry into the McGee legend follows some of the usual territory with an old flame looking up McGee and asking for his help, but there is nothing to salvage here, except perhaps a woman’s life.
Most of it is consumed with McGee sorting things out and logically deducing what is going on and who is who and what they want.What’s really great about it isn’t necessarily the mystery so much as how MacDonald describes people so that, even if you haven’t met them, you know the type he is talking about.
He hasn’t seen Helena Pearson in five years, and since she recently died from cancer, the letter brings back a lot of poignant memories.
In the letter, Helena asks Travis to see if he can determine what’s causing her eldest daughter, Maureen, to repeatedly attempt suicide.
To honor her memory, McGee pays Maureen a visit, although he doesn’t really know how he can help.
As someone who reads a lot of crime novels I can usually predict where a story is going, however, the twists and turns in this book kept me guessing.
Still, I did learn that there is a lot more to the Keys than I thought.
My husband got this from a Florida bookseller who knew he loved Randy Wayne White.
Also a White fan, I knew I wouldn't be getting the same kind of read even if I was getting another dose of real Florida.
Travis McGee's a great guy, but this was a lot like reading a pared-down, slightly more thoughtful James Bond.
Travis was in and out of bed with three women in the story with several other "encounters" that could have but didn't end up there.
Some of the dialogue felt very yesterday, and his view of women and of African-American culture was interesting for the era.
I liked this one better than some of the others because it's more of a whodunit. Usually McGee goes into these jobs knowing exactly who the bad guy is. This time he had to figure it out. He also manages to rustle up some sympathy for people of color. Not too bad for 1964.
Very Sam Spade.
This is a classic “hardboiled” detective story published in 1968.
One would never know it was 1968 except for the fact no one mentions a cell phone and there is zero talk of DNA.
But then again, there is the audio cassette recorder the cops use, the lovely gold carpeting and one “swinging band”.
Travis McGee, the unofficial detective, is extremely descriptive throughout the novel as he tells the story.
(Especially his description of one dead body, plus he loves the ladies) Overall, this story could be modern day whodunit.
It’s extremely well written, very entertaining and perfectly narrated.

Number ten in the series, this story finds McGee on an errand of mercy for an old lover who has lost her battle with cancer. He arrives in the apparent sleepy Florida Town of Fort Courtney, but all is not quite what it seems. There is something about the place that is a little off kilter, but by the time our sun bleached hero pieces together a jigsaw of murder and larceny, it is almost too late......A skilfull, well plotted crime thriller with everything you want from the genre, from the hands of one of the masters of the art.
David and Joab were both murderers, but David was penitent and Joab was not. There is a difference in degree but not in kind between the casual, socially-acceptable immoralities of Travis McGee and the criminal immoralities of theft and murder that bring him into play. Perhaps it is MacDonald, perhaps it is just the character, who doesn't appear to recognize the similarities. Nonetheless, MacDonald tells a compelling story.
It took MacDonald a long time to get to the main story line, and a long time to develop it once he got there.
The request takes him to prosperous Port Courtney, where the daughter's husband, a former stockbroker turned sly land developer, is the big man in town, with most of the local powerful folks invested in his projects.
That's fine for some mysteries, but I think the reader deserves a little more clarity along the way.
I've seen some reviews of MacDonald's work that suggest that you don't read the Travis McGee stories for their plot, but more for the philosophical ruminations of the main character.
The charming neighborhood sociopath creates mayhem.
John MacDonald never disappoints. Travis McGee is a rough and tumble big guy who always rescues the damsels in distress, throws a good punch, and is opinionated all get out. One of my favorite parts is a good McGee rant on what's wrong with America.
Zero Spoilers alert: I barely touch on the plot in this review.  Even if MacDonald’s philosophizing and ruminating on race and gender weren’t so horrifically antiquated and racist and sexist, he’s so much better at terse noir gems like, ‘Her stare was wise, timeless, sardonic.’ and ‘She laughed, a rich raw little sound, full of derision.’ - that it begs the question of why bother with the former? I get the idea of attempting to give your crime writing texture and depth by speaking about broader
I get the idea of attempting to give your crime writing texture and depth by speaking about broader social concerns, but when it distracts from the lurid plot at hand—which is why I signed on to begin with, for the stylish crime and sly sleuthing—it simply makes for tedious reading: In short I’m as likely to pick up a paperback detective novel hoping to hear the author’s thoughts on Big Issues as I am to pick up a tome of Kierkegaard’s expecting a steamy vampire bodice-ripper.
MacDonald was a talented writer, but I’ve enjoyed reading the McGee books as much for their blend of history lesson and sociology class as for the thriller elements.
The thriller element here is convoluted, as McGee comes to the aid of the wife of an old friend.
McGee, a large, rough-looking white guy, is trying to get information out of an African-American woman who doesn’t know him from Adam, and does not trust him right out of the gate:“It was all too familiar and all too frustrating.
They see just (my) outward look and they classify on that basis.
MacDonald tends to focus on what is wrong with the world--the sordid underpinings of the supposdedly civil world, and how people use and manipulate each other.
The other thing I like about MacDonald is that not all his mysteries were murder mysteries, but often things dealing in monetary fraud, and the murders happen along the way as he's hunting lost and stolen money.
He lessens this by making Travis McGee an amiable beach bum who specializes in helping people and recovering lost things.
Little by little he discovers the suicide attempts were more likely botched murder attempts.
This is one of the better Mcgee entries for me.
MacDonald has the same sort of queasy charm as watching Mad Men. It's a period piece - kind of like a Victorian novel only shorter and with way more sex.
This one brushes on the surface of, of all things, race relations too.
Things have changed since I was a small child and when I reread these books, I have to say, they've changed for the better.
Still, though, for all that the undertones may take us aback in 2012, he could write like a dream and these are really well written, mostly well plotted, classic 1960s private eye novels.
In my opinion, this is one of the best novels in the series. Although, the Travis McGee novels have a reputation for being testosterone driven, they are much more than this. The author has a unique world view that defies categorization. McGee might be a serial monogamist but he always treats women with respect - and perhaps a little fear.MacDonald builds strong, diverse women. Above all, John D. MacDonald is an excellent writer and a wonderful storyteller. Per Stephen King, MacDonald was the great showman of his day.
I was pleasantly surprised by this one, which I wasn't really enjoying after the first chapter or two. I'm a big fan of noir detective novels (Chandler and Hammet), and usually feel let down by anything that was written and/or takes place in the past 50 years. It took a few chapters for me to realize it, but this one was pretty intelligent, well-written, and engaging. I'll have to check out some more MacDonald (not to be confused with Ross McDonald, of Chandler's era and genre).
