https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1466595.Vegetarian_Epicure
When I was sixteen, my parents let my sister and I each pick one book to buy for our three-week camping vacation.
I picked The Vegetarian Epicure.
When we got back home, I used it to cook vegetarian meals for my family.
They had let me quit eating meat as long as my mother didn't have to do any extra cooking.
My mother is part Polish, so these recipes were not only delicious but familiar, which helped us all adapt to my new eating style.The Vegetarian Epicure book remains one of my favorites and a standard for what a good cookbook should be.
Most people would not put a cookbook in a list of books to read. However, Anna Thomas includes narrative of her relationship with food, entertainment, and life that is really a good read in itself. The food (recipes), by the way, is fabulous. She has the best hummus recipe ever.
Even though half of the book are recipes I wouldn't use, I have to give this book four stars because I love grassroots publications from the 70s.
There's something about a book with charming illustrations of natural living, printed in brown ink on unbleached paper that warms my heart.
I also appreciate when the ink budget is so tight that only three colours are used (which usually end up being brown, green, and orange).
I would have appreciated this book much more if the recipes weren't so heavy on eggs, butter, and cheese.
This was one of our first cookbooks and very useful for a young cook.
I just had to replace our copy, as it was in dozens of pieces.Favorite recipes:Pizza RusticaCheese SouffleEggplant ParmigianaSharp Vinagrette Salad DressingMy only criticism of these recipes is they tend to be cheese and butter-heavy.
I know the later edition of Vegetarian Epicure lightened up a bit, but I still rely on this edition on a regular basis.
I made the cheese enchiladas so often as a newlywed that I was asked to cease and desist with the cheese enchiladas.
It might be time to bring them back.
I agree that the grass smoking references in this book were pretty d---- funny...You're not going to see THAT in any other entertaining section of a cookbook anytime soon, folks.I love the artwork as well,and I'm looking forward to making the spinach lasagna....Oh, the book is very small-I expected it to be quite large, but it's packed with some good stuff...and no, i don't smoke, but thanks for asking...
Back when I was a youngster first exploring vegetarianism, I was given this book for Christmas, making it the first cookbook I have ever owned.
I have hung onto it all these years, partly for sentimental reasons, and partly due to the book being a nicely made artifact.
The Vegetarian Epicure helped pave the way for a number of cookbooks and that followed it.
Some of the recipes are still quite good, and Thomas tries to not make things too complicated.
This would still be a good choice for someone new to vegetarian cooking.
As a vegetarian cookbook, it's fine in an unreconstructed hippie sort of way, but the best part of this book is the introduction, in which the author offers suggestions on how to entertain, noting that certain dishes are wonderful for snacking "if grass is smoked socially in your home" and your guests develop "the munchies."UPDATE: Some friends and I just started a project where each week we are going to cook from a different cookbook in our collections and try to get through all of them in a year.
I have a feeling many of the recipes could use a good shove into the 21st century, flavor-wise.
One of my first cookbooks as a newlywed in the 1970s, which set us off on a seven year vegetarian odyssey. Keep in mind this was pre-cookbooks with photos. You have to use your imagination!
Used it so much over the years, it is in shreds. Perennially useful.
I love this book.
I've read sections again and again over the years.
The recipes are great for creating really delicious vegetarian food that rivals non-veg dishes.
Both this book and the second volume contain several recipes that I've used as again and again, or that I've used as a starting point for my own creations.
One of the best things about this book is that you get some little bit of understanding of the different cuisines in each section.
I love that there's enough here to learn to create a basic Indian or Mexican or Italian, etc.
Anna Thomas was the first vegetarian cookbook author to write about meatless meals hedonistically, with no mention of health or nutrition or spiritual purity. Even today, the food's rich (really rich) but delicious.
Well, way back when, when I was a lacto-ovo vegetarian, before I went vegan, this and its sequel were my favorite cookbooks.
I don't cook that often, but I actually made many of the recipes in this book and they were delicious.
I have not picked up the book since my first attempts to go vegan in 1988 as there were so many vegan cookbooks to try, but for a decade, this book was indispensable.
The few omnivorous friends I subjected to my cooking, very much enjoyed the food as well.
As it's totally a hippie '70s cookbook, it's right up my alley, but I found very little in it that I'm interested in making. The recipes are fairly unimaginative (ok, admittedly, they're decades old, so they aren't going to be cutting edge) and she seems committed to making the ingredients the hardest to get versions as possible and to making the recipes as difficult as possible.She's fairly pretentious, too. All told, it's pretty off-putting and I'll be unloading this book asap.
Just another vote for "amusing trip down memory lane"; boy, haven't we come a long way in terms of tasty vegetarian food, now! That said, it's still worth owning, although by no means suggesting it be the only vegetarian cookbook, much less the first. I inherited my mother's copy, and treasure it for her rating system of "spots"--i.e. how stained that recipe's page got in the course of returning to it.
My dad gave this book to me, which is kind of weird, what with the pot references, but I have to say that, although I've only actually tried a few recipes in this book, I give it 4 stars because it has my absolute most favourite EVER cornbread recipe. I don't generally eat large portions of much of anything, but I could eat the entire batch of that cornbread. It's just *that* good. Darn it. Now I'm going to have to bake some.
This book is golden! Haha, it is very clearly written in the 70's since there's a paragraph talking about socially smoking "grass" during dinner parties. That made me laugh!I haven't tried anything from the book yet, since most of the recipes seem to take a long time, but on some slow Sunday I'll whip it out and make bread and soup. Inspirational, if nothing else.
I have used this book to the extent that it is literally falling apart. It's well written, well organized and most of the ingredients are not that difficult to find. Most of the recipes are easy to follow and not too complicated. I especially enjoyed the recipes from the middle east as being accessible and delicious!
The recipes in this book take time to make, but they are guaranteed to turn out absolutely amazing. I made my first Thanksgiving Dinner ever using the recipes in this book. I barely knew how to cook then, but I could read and follow directions and that's all I needed to do to turn out a memorable dinner that actually received applause!
I've had this book forever - the retail price on the jacket is $4.95. I love the way Anna Thomas writes and her recipes don't drown in the overuse of whole grains, tofu and things you only find in out of the way health food stores. They are for middle of the road vegetarians (many are vegan), that will please the palates of vegetarians and omnivores alike.
You really feel like you're taking a trip back to the early 70's when you open this book. The serifed font, basic layout, and wonderful line drawings enhance these very basic vegetarian recipes. The only problem is that some of the recipes actually call for MSG and bac-o-bits (?). What this landmark of a book truly illustrates is that we've come a long way in Vegetarian Cuisine since 1972.
I'm revisiting this book because I'm paying attention to my diet -- again. It has been on my shelves for a long time and the pages are aged with various ingredients as well as wear and tear. The recipes are not necessarily low-fat, but they are great. I get my vegetarian comfort food recipes out of here. The corn and cheddar chowder recipe is worth the price of the book.
Turned on to the tasty ratatouille recipe in this book as an undergrad and once I gave up drinking 7-11 SuperGulps with every meal, I bought my own copy.A friendly informal tone and some splendid recipes have made this a perennial bestseller. For all who love the fruits of the earth and the art of cooking. A classic with almost a million copies sold to date.
It is funny how long I have had this cookbook, & have used it only occasionally. I enjoy reading it more than cooking from it. I guess that there is so much more available now then when it was written.
It is a bit dated now but I still make tons of dishes from this book....the lecas on page 186 is fantastic with red lentil loaf (if anyone wants that recipe I can provide). The guacamole (pg 296) is an old stand-by for us, as is the Raita (pg 314).The breads and soups are wonderful.
Although it can be a little hard to get hold of a copy now (unless it has been reprinted), it is well worth the effort.Be careful with the desserts though. I put on 5 lbs. every time I read some of my favorite dessert recipes, without even lifting a whisk!
My favorite vegetarian cookbook ever. The stuffed pumpkin is especially unique, and a great holiday meal. The spanakopita is a go-too classic for fine dining. Her menus are inspired and her recipes excellent and unusual.
I bought this book when it first was published and I had just become a vegetarian. So for me it is like my vegetarian bible. I loved the recipes. This is not low calorie or fat free but just a lot of great recipes.
I love some of the recipes in this book. The recipes, due to the author's background have a very European feeling. Russian Vegetable Pie is one of my all time favorites and for desert, how about a ginger cheesecake!!
As my family will note, this is my most beloved tattered cookbook that I used when my children were growing up and I was attempting to get them to eat healthy. God Bless young families..these recipes are simple and ample.
This is one of the most fun books in the world to read. She is hilarious. And having lived through the seventies, i so appreciate everything she talks about. It also has, hands down, the best Spinach Lasagna recipe in the world.
