https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/762288.Nothing_s_Fair_in_Fifth_Grade
I had this book when I was a kid and I have to cringe now when I read the way Elsie's character is written, what everyone says about her (she's fat, so she's automatically "gross") and what she says about herself.
But we don't really like her at all until her stupid diet starts working and she tells us how she knows she was gross before and is glad she isn't now.
Oh thank god for the healing power of not being fat anymore!
I actually read this book when I was in the 5th grade the year it was published...
I wanted to play tether ball but the meanest boys in school would say nasty things to me endlessly.
I don't like to eat." And proceeded with his usual torments.After I had already read this book, my fifth grade teacher decided to read this book to the class (she read to us every day).
And the first chapter is titled, "The Fat Blonde Girl." When she pulled out this book, I absolutely dreaded her reading the title of the first chapter.
don't read this book out loud to the class.
And yet you still feel sympathy for her because even a sneaky thief with an eating problem doesn't deserve the bullying she gets from her classmates and for her own mother to treat her like shit and blatantly favor her spoiled little sister.Jenny Sawyer is a likeable protagonist.
Granted, going along with the other girls' hitchhiking plan wasn't a good move for obvious reasons, but even when ROBIN is the one who makes it worse by jumping back in the truck to get her purse Mrs. Edwards is all too eager to blame Elsie for the whole thing.
And it's not just the characters; the story itself was very true-to-life as well.
It moves fast, and yet still finds time to humanize the characters with plenty of "life moments", which are always essential to good characterization.I was surprised, rereading the book 16 years later, at how much of it was fresh in my head, despite having only read it once as a kid.
It just shows the lasting impression that one rare, truly excellent story can have on you.I can't praise the book enough.
You guys have to understand that when this book was written, they didn't ACTUALLY deal with body image problems. This book was actually written by a teacher and her class. It's pretty amazing that a teacher got a book published by having students write what happened next
It gets two stars because it was easy to read, but I think there are much better books available that address bullying a childhood obesity. Also this book writes about so many child safety issues!!! One - a three year old sitting in the front seat of a car?! Two - children hitchhiking from a stranger and riding in the back of their truck?! Three - a grade five student staying home alone and cooking dinner and other food in the oven and on the stove?!
I read this several times when I was a kid...it's still good. :-)
Great examination of middle school politics and still walks off the shelf with my 5th graders.
Found this book in my local little free library.
Overtaken by nostalgia; took it out.
Started reading it on my walk home and was shocked to see that I had either read it so many times when I was a kid that I knew way too many lines from it, or that so many lines had stuck with me as a kid.
"Chapstick made our lips shiny." "Be a sport, Red." "Her legs looked like two bed pillows with the ends stuffed in shoes."I haven't read anything else by Barthe DeClements and I don't know why.
I think this book may have taught me something about friendship when I was younger.
Curious to hear from anyone else who read it as a kid!
While reading this book, I did not remember the fifth grade being this bad.
I do think that this book is a good read for fifth grade girls because it shows the struggles and cattiness that sometimes does go on amongst pre-teen/teenage girls.
I think that it is an appropriate book because one of the main characters does come around and it shows the power of friendship, and how once you accept someone for how they are you realize the good friendship you can have.
Being the "fat kid" myself, I found it so degrading at first.
Perhaps I am glad that I never had to listen to those things.I felt bad for Elsie.
I felt bad that the author dumped so much crap on her life in this book.
Maybe the author herself was the fat kid growing up?The children are evil and cruel, more so than I ever remember growing up.
I'm glad it only took me an hour or so to read this entire book or I would have been angry at wasting so much of my time.
But I loved getting ready for the fifth grade and reading about other fifth graders.
Plus, Barthe DeClements once taught at the elementary school I attended, so that made the book even more special to me, especially when I, with my elementary schoolgirl enthusiasm, wrote to her and gushed about how much I loved the book, and I thought it was so cool that before she became an author, she taught at the school that I was then at.
She was really nice and wrote back a lovely postcard that I cherished (and still have, too).
I was a bit sad seeing how many 1-star reviews this book had, when it had really resonated with me as a pre-teen.
I think it was mostly because it gave me hope.
A lot of people are saying how cruel the portrayal of Elsie was, but a lot of kids in my classes were a lot meaner than that.
She doesn't seem to have many things thrown at her or anything.
Perhaps it hasn't aged well and kids are kinder now.
If anyone's interested, I think the Jezebel review does it more justice than my dim memories of it could here - http://jezebel.com/5266091/nothings-f...
I read this book when I was a kid and there are parts of this book that I still think of as an adult.
I didn't have self esteem issues or body image issues until I read this book and realized that I was Elsie and that is what people thought of me.
This lead to eating disorders and severe self esteem issues.
Did this book cause all my problems & issues?
I still look down at my toes and think about this book and remember Elsie's struggle to see her toes....
my struggle to see my toes.
I have read this book before it is so funny,scary, and awesome. I dislike the mom so much.
I remember reading this book about the time I was in fifth grade. It made me laugh out loud. Now, it made me cringe.
I really like this book!!!!!!!😂
I read this in fifth grade. It was good.
(i really hated 5th grade but then I hated school overall) At first, the fat kid in here seems like a stereotypical fat child (stealing food, and lunch money) but later on in the book her character is nicely fleshed out (pun not intended) and you get to see she's actually a decent girl when given a proper chance/discipline.You see how she got fat in the first place, an that she has issues because of her parent's divorce and how her mother treats her, but her friends give her encouragement.
Well, that's done, finally.
While Jenny's one of the most unsympathetic narrators I've seen in a while; the horrible adults that surround her, including her parents, make the children's behavior understandable.
Ugh. Just ugh.
(view spoiler)[While Jenny does make a certain amount of improvements throughout the book, such as actually defending Elsie, she continues to describe Elsie by her weight, loss of weight, how "not so fat anymore" she is, etc.
(hide spoiler)]I've already terrorized my coworkers by reading out portions of this book.
Let's see how the book club finds it...
I like this book but it doesn't relate to real 5th grade.
I was fortunate that I've been thin my whole life, but to see how they are perceived is shown here.Nothing's Fair in Fifth Grade, a novel by Barthe Declements, won several awards for being the most popular children's book in thirteen states.It's a story set in an elementary school, involving a student, Jenny, who is initially repulsed by a new transfer: morbidly obese classmate Elsie Edwards.
The man drives far away from the kids' intended destination, and they eventually end up having to escape the man's truck.
The popular girls (Diane, Sharon, and Jennifer) treat her like an annoyance until Jennifer starts messing up in math and then (and only then) does she come around to accepting Elsie.
Elsie actually does start to lose weight but her mother is still looking for any reason to send her off to boarding school.
Recently I had to deal with this issue on a site I was on that lets people either vent or listen called BLAH THERAPY and a very IGNORANT person was telling me about a girl at their job that sounded very much like an "Elsie".
121).I first read this book when I was in elementary school and remember liking it.
We would probably replace the word "prejudice", as Jenny's Dad says, with the modern buzz word "bullying", but the reality that being the fat kid in school is hard is still true today.
And with obesity on the rise in children we have an epidemic that needs a solution.Nothing's Fair in Fifth Grade isn't a world changing book but learning to accept people where they are IS a world changing lesson.
Making good choices is also a good lesson for elementary school kids.
When Elsie joins the fifth grade class, the students resent her for stealing their lunch money and make her life miserable because she's fat.This is a re-read of a book that I read and liked as a kid.
Looking back from an adult's perspective (and from changing views of acceptance), I felt like I was being smacked in the face by the kid's behavior.
Ouch!
The story redeems the main character Jenny and her friends, and Elsie becomes a part of their group (after losing weight, of course - double ouch!)
The class book club money has come up missing and the whole fifth grade class is being punished.
Nothing's fair in fifth grade!
Even worse, Jenny's pretty sure she knows who took the money: Elsie Edwards, the class bully, who takes other kids' lunch money to buy junk food.
After getting to know Elsie, though, Jenny realizes that her life isn't great either.
Teaching valuable lessons in empathy and not judging books by their covers, Nothing's Fair in Fifth Grade mixes humor and teachable moments in a way that children will enjoy and adults will applaud.
This book still resonates with me, about a decade later.
It brought to light eating disorders, and how girls perceive their weight even as young as ten years old.
I struggle(d) with my weight from a young age and reading about someone else dealing with these issues was eye opening.
I remember the very last page (view spoiler)[the overweight friend is walking with her friends and stops walking and says, "I can see my feet when I look down" (hide spoiler)] and that struck me to the core.
A very important book and I'd like to re-read it to see if it still holds up.
I loved this book growing up and I repurchased it on a whim recently because I lost my copy about 14 years ago. I wanted to see if it aged well, considering it was written in 1981, I think it has aged incredibly well. I I loved how nostalgic it felt reading it again, like having a conversation with an old friend after years of being apart.The social things are still relevant for today, they're not fleshed out all too well considering some middle-aged/YA novels we have today but she got her points across perfectly all the same.
I really liked and appreciated this book when I first read it, when it was first published. Upon re-reading, I am less enthralled. The portrayal of a fat child is completely unsympathetic, trite, and offensive. Weight is presented as a symptom and burden of emotional problems, with weight loss presented as the only laudable goal and the solution for all problems. The characters are shallowly drawn and frankly cruel. I found this quite an unpleasant read and could not recommend it.
Elsie is the new student in Mrs. Hanson's fifth grade class. Because she is overweight, the class immediately starts to make fun. When lunch money starts disappearing, Elsie is the likely suspect. When she is caught, she is put on probation and her mother decides to send her to boarding school the next year. In the mean time, Jenifer sees that Elsie gets an A on every math test and asks if she can tutor her. She comes to like Elsie and labors to change her mother's mind about boarding school.
