https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/73932.The_Paradise_War
Lewis is an American grad student at Oxford who's had to work really hard for everything he has, while his wealthy friend Simon has been freely given everything he ever wanted.
Time passes differently in the Otherworld, so Simon's been there for six years by the time Lewis goes to a professor, pieces everything together, and manages to get through the portal himself.
This book was published over 25 years ago, so it was fun to get a glimpse into the academic world of that time period.So I really, really enjoyed the first 100 pages or so and am glad I read this, but don't think I'll be continuing with the sequels.
ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature.As an avid fantasy reader, I was reluctant to try this trilogy because Lawhead is not one of the best known fantasy writers.
My husband bought me the book because Lawhead is a Christian and he thought I should try it.I was very pleasantly surprised!
The story is interesting, meaningful, and epic in scope while still progressing rapidly enough to finish in three books.It contains all of the elements I look for in a fantasy: vivid description, many interesting and well-developed characters, problems to solve, quests, romance, war, tension, intrigue, and a happy ending.I couldn't be happier.
Read more Stephen Lawhead book reviews at Fantasy literature.
This is the first book of a trilogy; and like Tolkien's Lord of the Rings books (which he originally didn't want to separate into three volumes --that was the publisher's idea), the Song of Albion books basically form a unit that should be read and considered together.
He makes very creative and original use of different features of Celtic lore, such as the Silver Hand (which provides the title of the second volume), the endless kettle, Beltane fires, etc.Lawhead is a capable stylist, skilled at creating absorbing plots, characters, and atmosphere; he does that here, and (as expected from an evangelical writer) there are no problems of bad language or sexual content in the trilogy.
This being the first time I've read the book since becoming a published author and writing Celtic fantasies of my own, the effect is profound and surreal, if not subtle and subliminal, as The Paradise War thrills those hungry for fantasy's most famous tropes on the surface, but more than that, stirs a sense of longing and belonging deep within, which upon reading, cannot be denied.
I really liked the first 150 pages or so and thought the last 300 pages were pretty boring. Basically I didn't like the actual portal fantasy section. I think I would enjoy it if Stephen Lawhead wrote a contemporary novel, like a psychological thriller or literary fiction or something along those lines, but this wasn't for me.
Solid 4 stars, great read! Can't wait to pick up the next one!
The Otherworld is leaking into our world and vice versa.
Random things are appearing in our world and people are disappearing.How disappointed I was when I cracked into this!
About 40 pages in, I started to think the author hated his main character.
I just kept waiting for things to be explained in something other than a school-like manner.It was really difficult for me to get into this book and I had to slog through the chapters before finally deciding it wasn't worth it for me less than halfway through.
It is a shame because I think the idea is fantastic!
Lord Nudd who I suppose was supposed to be the "villain" of the story had no character, no purpose, or no goal in what he did.
The characters were not developed and the attempts to do so fell a long way off the mark.
Many of the characters annoyed me, especially Simon, Tegid, and Meldron (which is pretty much all the characters there were in the book).
Tegid was a major pessimistic bard who annoyed me with half his attempts of bringer a downer on everything.Lewis' character (or whatever his name is, really) was not developed enough for me to be annoyed at.
4.5 stars. Really enjoyable.
Lewis comes to love Albion so well that the thought of returning to the drab, gray, meaningless life that he left behind him makes him sick.
He comes to realize, though, that the presence of strangers has brought a new influence in to the ancient ways and traditions of the country, and that it is steadily bringing about the downfall of the world.
Lewis realizes that he must prevent anything else from taking place, and though it grieves his heart, he tries to force Simon back to their own world, only to be met with surprise.This book is my introduction to the works of Stephen Lawhead, and I must say that I am very impressed.
I must admit I did return this to the library without finishing it.
I kept reading and reading, almost to halfway through it just hoping for something to pick up and excite me.
Steven Lawhead just did so much better with Hood.
With Hood I was enraptured and in love with all the characters and events and could not read fast enough to get what was coming next.
But perhaps it is because Hood was from last year (2006) where The Paradise War is from 1991, maybe Lawhead has just gotten better.
There are too many other, better things out there to read.
Lewis is an American student going to school in Oxford.
When his roomate discovers a newspaper article about a legendary beast (an aurochs) that was sighted, they both go on a weekend adventure to try and see it.
What they discover however, is a cairn that transports them into another world-the world of Albion.This book was seriously amazing.
It is an amazing fantasy story, with writing so beautiful and descriptive I felt almost as if I were in Albion too!
I really enjoyed this story and would recommend it to anyone!Albion Forever!
2.5 starsI prefer fantasy worlds filled with lots of fantastical elements. Magic, talking creatures, elves, dwarves, fairies, etc. In this book, the Otherworld was fairly realistic (at least historically) for most of the story. That was pretty disappointing. The characters were also rather dull. The ending was decent, and some characters are starting to develop a bit.
This is really good stuff. Only four stars because the second is even better. But it needs a long and thought-through review. You can read that, along with thoughts about other things, at this link:http://nicholaskotar.com/2018/11/21/t...
so no major spoilers?*So, the beginning is way different than the rest of the book.
I liked Simon in the beginning.
And I guess by the time you saw him it was three years later, but there was no real...
And you don't even see much of his meaner side, he's not in the book that much.A few other random, little things that I found out of place (Lewis's loyalty to a king he really didn't know, it never explaining how Simon knew so much about Celtic lore in the beginning) but overall a very nice read.
It was not by any means a bad book, but was also not something that stood out or grabbed me.
It was really only the very beginning that pushed me through the bulk of the book, and the very end (in fact, the very last pages) that might make me read the second.I feel this book might be better for a slightly younger audience, or new fantasy readers wanting a lighter story.
This book was far too predictable for any of that, but I still think it would be a good book for a certain audience.
Zzz. Boring!
This is only book one of a trilogy, so I guess this book has some excuse for having a LOT of tedious back story, but that doesn't mean I have to like it.
It seemed like the entire first 60% of The Paradise War was blah, blah, blah back story.
the book is over.Being the first book of a trilogy, it ends with a cliffhanger, of course but I won't be going forward to the second book because I simply will not reward an author for giving me literary blue balls.
A good, easy-to-follow story, well-told, but it didn't quite live up to expectations.
The opening scenes included an aurochs and a green giant, then nothing—other than the obligatory portal experiences—really "Other" for 300 pages.
Oh, there's lots of "other"--good ancient Celtic words and culture, but little of Fairie.
In fact, if there's a flaw to Lawhead's approach is that he treats even his spiritual beings as super strong, super evil, etc., but they lack the "feel" of Other.A quibble.
Lawhead often tells rather than shows.
Often he describes a scene based on his protagonist's emotional response and not what Lewis/Lydd is responding to.
This story is based heavily on celtic mythology. The main character knows almost nothing about the celts and has to have everything explained to him. He is a grad student. His major is celtic studies. How does that even make sense!? I didn't end up finishing the book, got about halfway through and skimmed the rest. In the hands of a better writer the story might have been decent. The characters however were too weak and lacking in personality to carry the plot. As it is, if I could have given it zero stars I would have.
•Typically I reserve 1 star ratings for books that I loath or gave up on.
The only reason I didn't give up on this one was just because I didn't want to give up on another book right now.
•My biggest problem with this book was that I was just so bored with it pretty much the entire time I was reading it.
I got stuck in the first 40 pages for almost 2 months, at that point I bought the audio book to help push me through it.
•It seems, after attempting two different series written by Lawhead, that I'm just not a fan of Lawhead's books.
Perhaps this is because the tale is narrated from the first person?My favorite parts of the story dealt with the elaborate lore surrounding Albion, the prophecies, the bards, and the way authority worked in the world of Albion.
I had been told that this book or maybe the series as a whole is distinctly "Christian".
(not a Christian idea) this is a fantasy tale, and I had no problem with this, just as I have no problem with C.S. Lewis being pretty distinctly Christian in his Cosmic Trilogy (those are some of my absolutely favorite books).
I really really wanted to like this book.
I'd read a Stephen Lawhead book about a decade ago, and remembered enjoying it.
And this book came with a high recommendation from a friend (5 stars no less!) so I was anticipating a good story, well written.But I couldn't like it.
It was dull, dull dull.
The two main characters introduced in The beginning pages were irritating and unengaging.
The main protagonist is supposed to be a grad student at Oxford in Celtic studies, and yet he seems to know less than me!
Then this is not a book that's working.
Tricky for me to rate this book.
I read through sections quickly, but felt that not much was happening.
Then I would put the book aside, take a break from it, and then try again.
I really like it when I get caught up in a story and I feel as if I am in the story.
When I feel connected to the characters, and can't wait to see what happens.
I just didn't feel that way here.
I just felt like I was reading a book-not exploring a fantastic new world.
The storyline and premise was interesting to begin with: an extinct animal found in Scotland to the delight of a bored, young privileged man at Oxford and then a meeting with the Green Man. However delightful the story may seem, however, the writing must carry it almost singularly, and it certainly did not. There was too much Wilde-esque whinging from the Brit, too much 'meh' and slowness from the Yank and nothing particularly happening.
The first part was really cool... and then somehow the fantasy otherworld was really boring.
How are these books not even on my list, much less missing from my favourites list?The Song of Albion trilogy is still right up there with the best fantasy I've ever read. It captured my imagination like nothing else I had read before it, and in the same way that Lord of the Rings and Harry Potter managed to (when I read them both years after Lawhead's trilogy).These are three books I generally try to read every year or so. Amazing. Easily Lawhead's best work, although 'Patrick' and 'Byzantium' are right up there, along with the Pendragon books.
Song of Albion: goodreads.com/series/53471Part 1 of 3 The Paradise WarPart 2 of 3 The Silver HandPart 3 of 3 The Endless Knot
Stephen Lawhead's books on/relating to Celtic culture and mythology are what sparked my love of both the topics themselves and also further loving mythology in general. The way he introduces the storyline and makes his somewhat long novels seem like they go by in an instant are so admirable, and i just really love all of his books that i have read (which is nearly all of them). I wouldn't enjoy historical fiction so much if it werent for books like these
I have to confess that I liked the beginning and the ending more so than the middle. I found myself skimming through some of the chapters where Lewis trains to become a warrior and tries to fit in with Albion and its way of life. I liked Lawhead's Bright Empire Series better, but according to his Afterword, many fans prefer this series. I'll finish the rest of the trilogy, but I'll probably read a few other books first.
The relatable adventure we were introduced to turns into an unrelatable generic medieval setting that really seems boring and has some parts that really drag on forever.The once interesting Simon who drove the fun of the story in the beginning is gone, replaced by a scolding asshole who speaks very little throughout the entire book, until the very end.And every character introduced afterward is generic,forgettable,one dimensional, and uninteresting.
The only characters that actually seemed a little interesting was Simon, who transformed into the generic idiot who ends up being selfish, blending in with the rest of the forgettable otherworld, and Professor Nettleton, who despite giving us a long winded exposition about this crappy otherworld, still had me excited for the potential of what this book could have been.
