https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/391789.Colonel_Sun
There was all that fuss the other year about Sebastian Faulks, an actual literary author (unlike John Gardner or Raymond Benson) being hired to write a James Bond novel.
Proof of the high esteem in which Fleming's writing is held.But ignored in all the coverage was that the Fleming estate had hired a literary author to write a James Bond novel before.
And on this score, Kingsley Amis (a writer not traditionally known for his thrillers) does Fleming perfectly.
I also own this in another version, that I read many years ago published as "Colonel Sun (James Bond - Extended Series #15)" by Robert Markham.
Lost a star for the anti-Chinese racism.
With Ian Fleming no longer in a position to write Bond, the estate of Fleming approached Kingsley Amis to continue the story with a new novel.
Rumoured to have completed Fleming's last novel, The Man With the Golden Gun, Amis was maybe the natural choice.And to be honest, it's pretty good.
Much slower paced than a Fleming at his best, this novel never really seems to quite hit the level of excitement or anticipation that it was presumably aiming for.
It leads Bond to Athens where he finds himslef in a strange alliance with the GRU ( A Russian secret service) to stop a Chinese secret agent form fulfilling his plan to bloody the nose of the Russians and leave the British with the smoking gun.The story has it all blood, sex, women and sadism, true to Flemings formula and the books works really well.However rereading it in this new print, somebody nicked my original Hardcover with Dali painting on the front, I found myself less enthralled with this book than I had previously done.
Not bad, just typical Bond and nothing too intriguing in the story.
Not bad and not a waste of time, though with the audio I did find my mind wandering on occasion.
The villain, Colonel Sun, is fairly typical for an old-school Bond villain, but he's kinda cool.
The reader on the audio was kinda blah.
Really, this story would have probably been more interesting if there weren't already a bunch of similar Bond novels and films out there, even by 1968.Perhaps the best part of this book was a glimpse into the Cold War at the time.
Kingsley Amis was a huge Bond fan, no one could doubt it, with a number of books written on the franchise.
Either way, Kingsley Amis typed out a book which I think is probably one of the best Bond books.
The premise for the novel is the demented Colonel Sun, a Maoist Chinese operative with a pain obsession (because literary Bond villains are crazy like that), has kidnapped M.
In any case, Bond isn't going to let M's kidnapping slide so he heads off to Greece and hooks up with GRU operative Ariadne Alexandroi in order to stop Colonel Sun's nefarious plan.
Even as Fleming was expiring, the firm he had established for the promotion and protection of all things Bond was laying plans for continuation novels to be published under the collective pseudonym Robert Markham, to be written under by rotating authors.
I understand the publishers' desire to ignore the Gardner books as well as those of several other thriller hacks who succeeded him, but to call Faulks' book the first new Bond in a while was a stretch of the public imagination to challenge the schemes of Hugo Drax.
In fact, Robert Markham is a pseudonym used by Kingsley Amis, of all people, a big fan of Ian Fleming.Bond goes to meet M at his home in Surrey, and is surprised there by a gang of thugs who have kidnapped M and want to take James as well.
The idea is to attack the conference with British-made weapons and then leave the bodies of Bond and M to make it look like a British attack, causing a loss of esteem for British interests and embarrassment for the Russians.The book is exciting, and Amis-as-Markham has rather more of a sense of humour than Fleming.

Robert Markham is a pen name for Kingsley Amis, who was commissioned by Ian Fleming's estate to write this James Bond sequel.If you like Bond, then you will like COLONEL SUN. It offers everything one expects in a Bond novel. And yet it is better than the average Bond book. That is because Amis is a more polished author than Fleming or Gardner. His story follows the Bond formula, but his prose is better than Fleming's or Gardner's. And that is nice.
The first Bond novel not written by Fleming. Markham (Amis) rightly didn't try to do a Fleming pastiche, but stayed with what makes Bond unique and then told his own story. It's effective, ties right into the world at that time, and a worthy addition to the canon. Buy it! Read it!
Kingsley Amis, writing as Robert Markham, produced this, the first James Bond book written after Ian Fleming's death in 1964.
But (unlike Skyfall) M's capture isn't personal: the Chinese want to use him (and Bond, if they can get him) in a plot to discredit the British government.To say that Amis has turned Fleming's spy thrillers into his own political thriller would be to imply that Amis does more than nod in this direction.
The politics of this book can be simply summarized: Chinese, bad; British, good -- with a few equivocal Russians thrown in for good measure.One of those Russians isn't a Russian at all.
One I have been trying to get to read for so long. A good read, wide ranging action and in the Fleming style.The torture scene at the end was used so closely in the movie Spectre.
I read all of the Fleming books years ago, when I worked in the closed stacks of a major metropolitan public library.
Could probably make a good movie.P.S. Although I have not seen it, the re-make of Casino Royale is supposed to be much closer to the novel (including the brutal caning of the genitals epsiode.) If you don't know the long history of how the original Casino Royale was a farce and how "Never, Say Never Again" got made, close the computer, pick up this book and enjoy.
The first writer of these non-Fleming Bonds was Robert Markham, as eny fule no these days, we're actually talking celebrated satirist and literary giant Kingsley Amis.The question I kept coming back to throughout my difficult time reading Colonel Sun was whether Amis was doing this for the LOLs. The whole thing is so very badly done, the writing, dialogue and characters so stilted and the situations so very wooden, that you wonder but then you pull back and debate whether writing very, very badly is the stuff of satire.
Kingsley Amis continuing the Bond series; the quality of the prose as one would expect from a writer of Amis's caliber. It's been years since I read any of the Fleming novels, but this one continues his themes and style, if not his flair for theatrics - I particularly liked a scene near the end where Bond muses over the fact that he hadn't used any of his specialized gadgets. The latest movie with Daniel Craig must have lifted its torture scene at least in part from this book. Fast-paced & thrilling.
Lacked the Fleming "sweep." Somewhat interesting plot but there was a lot of violence. I skimmed most of the book because I just couldn't really get into it. I thought Amis' beginning was good and I enjoyed the Quarterdeck sequence a lot. Unfortunately, the novel seemed to lose its momentum as it rolled on. It just goes to show you that nobody does a Bond like Fleming does a Bond.3/5 Stars
Het eerste Bond boek geschreven na de dood van Ian Fleming. Kingsley Amis verteld een verhaal in de geest van Fleming. Bond reist af naar Griekenland om zijn baas M te redden uit de handen van de maniakale Colonel Sun. Het verhaal is reuze spannend en houd de geest van Bon
If you're a Kingsley Amis fan, you'll be disappointed; if you're a James Bond fan, you'll equally disappointed. The formula:Bond in trouble, Bond meets bad guy, Bond meets girl, Bond gets out of trouble, Bond hooks up with girl, Bond gets bad guy just didn't work.
I read this when it first came out in paperback. A huge Bond fan, I was delighted someone was continuing the novels. Myself, I rate this one just behind Fleming's books.
This book felt very Bond despite not being written by Fleming. With the exception of a really boring torture scene near the end it was a cracking tale. Recommended to anyone who liked Fleming's Bond.
Exceeded expectations - Kingsley Amis channels the ghost of Ian Fleming
Mr. Amis handles his role as a stand in for the deceased Ian Flemming, but he lacks the pacing and the fails to add in the finer descriptions that can be found in the originals.In the Original James Bond Books, Ian Fleming created a formula for the high living Secret Agent.
In particular when writing of Island life, something he loved, a reader could feel the rhythm of life and the lure of the sun.Kingsly Amis was an accomplished writer of novels, having made his name with his first novel a comedy, Lucky Jim. Years later he proclaimed his serious interest in the Secret Agent with his analytical study http://www.amazon.com/s/ref=nb_sb_ss_...This a fairly straight up analysis.
Colonel Sun is the first James Bond novel published after Ian Fleming's 1964 death.
Before writing the 1968 novel, Amis wrote two other Bond related works, The James Bond Dossier and the The Book of Bond.
Colonel Sun focuses on agent James Bond and his mission to track down the kidnappers of M, his superior at MI6.
In the last few pages my personal interest was piqued as the author focused more on plot developments.My recommendation: it should be read by any Bond bibliophile with an understanding of the time period it was written in.
Colonel Sun by Robert Markham is the first novel featuring secret agent James Bond, 007, not written by Ian Fleming.
Robert Markham is actually the pseudonym of Kingsley Amis, the book was published six years after the death of Ian Fleming.The head of MI6, the British Secret Service, otherwise known as M to Bond fans has been kidnapped right under 007’s nose.
Colonel Sun by Robert Markham came out in 1968, a few years after Mr. Fleming’s death and many years before successful books, authors, and characters were branded as a franchise.The book itself is strangely written.
Having read all of Ian Fleming’s original Bond novels and short stories last year, I’m now starting on the ‘extended series’ of Bond novels, beginning (unsurprisingly) with the first post-Fleming novel - Colonel Sun - written by Kingsley Amis under the pseudonym Robert Markham.Amis’s intention is explicitly to write a continuity novel - revisiting Fleming’s Bond at a time when the big screen 007 was moving away from the character’s original inspiration.
Amis successfully captures the spirit of Bond, and employs familiar, albeit perfectly enjoyable, plot devices to tell a new story about the world’s most deadly secret agent.
The story is very much in the style that Flemming made famous!
An adventure of James Bond that echoes the voice of his creator is a rare treat!I try not to give any spoilers, but this is a warning!The titular character is Colonel Sun Liang-tan, a tall Chinese Man who calls himself a special agent for the People’s Liberation Army.
He is the official interrogator of British or American prisoners…A meeting is planned between various Soviet and Chinese diplomats and generals.
You could cut the espionage with a knife!Of course, there is a Bond Girl in this story as well.
In 1968, four years after Fleming's death, Amis penned what was to become the first of many 'Bond continuation novels'.Colonel Sun is set immediately after the events of the final Fleming Bond novel, The Man With The Golden Gun, and clearly Amis, who'd already published two Bond-related works, knew his Bond lore.At times he captures something of Fleming's style but for the most part Colonel Sun is a failure.
A more humane one.
And isn't there a big loose end, both in morality and plot terms, regarding the boat-swap device?No, I much preferred Sebastian Faulks's 2008 effort, Devil May Care, not only because it more faithfully captures the style of Fleming's Bond novels but also because it's a more exciting and captivating novel full stop.
The first Bond novel written after Ian Fleming's death.
This was a decent enough read, all the usual things you'd expect were present (girl, travel, foreign villains with deadly schemes, etc).
There just wasn't a spark of excitement in reading this one for me, it felt like Fleming going through the motions - ie, the new author being perhaps a little to careful to follow formula and not creating anything too surprising or unexpectedly exciting.
The villain Colonel Sun didn't grab me as being memorable, inventive or enjoyably evil in any way.
Worth reading if you're a fan of the Bond series, an enjoyable enough read, but not an amazing or groundbreaking one.
