https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18850.On_Being_Ill
“We do not know our own souls, let alone the souls of others. Human beings do not go hand in hand the whole stretch of the way. There is a virgin forest in each; a snowfield where even the print of birds' feet is unknown. Here we go alone, and like it better so. Always to have sympathy, always to be accompanied, always to be understood would be intolerable.”
We do not know our souls, let alone the souls of others.  An ode to illness. Another inspiration.She asks for its presence in literature, as her wit silences desperate voices fighting for her attention....how we go down into the pit of death and feel the waters of annihilation close above our heads and wake thinking to find ourselves in the presence of the angels and the harpers when we have a tooth out and come to the surface in the dentist's arm-chair... Her passionate lyricism blends in perf
Another inspiration.She asks for its presence in literature, as her wit silences desperate voices fighting for her attention....how we go down into the pit of death and feel the waters of annihilation close above our heads and wake thinking to find ourselves in the presence of the angels and the harpers when we have a tooth out and come to the surface in the dentist's arm-chair...
A break from illness.
She disconcerts the world while she looks at the sky.
Ordinarily to look at the sky for any length of time is impossible.The last song to illness.
A voice comes from a letter.
On the contrary, the very opposite is true.
All day, all night the body intervenes; blunts or sharpens, colours or discolours, turns to wax in the warmth of June, hardens to tallow in the murk of February.
The creature within can only gaze through the pane—smudged or rosy; it cannot separate off from the body like the sheath of a knife or the pod of a pea for a single instant; it must go through the whole unending procession of changes, heat and cold, comfort and discomfort, hunger and satisfaction, health and illness, until there comes the inevitable catastrophe; the body smashes itself to smithereens, and the soul (it is said) escapes."
I was reading these wonderful pieces by Virginia Woolf and her mother, Julia Stephen, last Saturday morning, in bed, sipping coffee and nibbling a piece of toast when I came across this sentence: The origin of most things has been decided on, but the origin of crumbs in bed has never excited sufficient attention among the scientific world, though it is a problem which has tormented many a weary sufferer.
The torment of crumbs should be stamped out of the sick bed as if it were the Colorado beetle in a potato field.After reading that, my breakfast in bed was quite spoilt.
___ Virginia Woolf from On Being Ill Had I known about this essay, On Being Ill, and had I read the quote above prior to publishing my first book of poems, Zimble Zamble Zumble, I would have used it as an introduction to my work.
Every word must do something to us, make us feel it through and in our body, and the meaning of the work is secondary and something that comes when it does as a result of this communion with our senses.
Of course, Woolf agreed to provide an essay for him and Eliot published it after remarking that her work was wordy and feeble.
اثر ویرجینیا وولف، در باب بیمار بودن، از جمله آثار غیرداستانی او است. اهمیت این اثر، رویکرد پدیدارشناختی وولف به پدیده بیماری در زندگی بشر است. تلاش وی برای احیای جایگاه بدن، و به دنبال آن بیماری در ادبیات و رویکرد ما به جهان، در عصر پیشرفت پزشکی و روانپزشکی غریب مینماید. دوره ای که یک ویروس، اسکن مغزی یا پدیدههایی اینچنین به صورت تام و تمام مسئولیت توصیف بیماری را به دوش میکشند. در ادامه خلاصهای که از این اثر وولف آمده، را بخوانید. همه ما انسانها شکلی از بیماری را در طول عمر خود تجربه میکنیم. ت
اگر کسی رمانی در مورد بیماری بنویسد افراد گلایه خواهند کرد که چرا اثری از عشق در این کتاب دیده نمی‌شود، هر چند از نظر وولف آنها اشتباه می کنند، چرا که «بیماری اغلب لباس مبدل عشق است».ولی مشکل تنها این نیست، مشکل دیگری که وجود دارد فقر واژگان برای توصیف بیماری است.
وولف به ما یادآوری می‌کند که هر دختر مدرسه‌ای که عاشق بشود می‌تواند از اشعار شکسپیر یا جان کیتس برای ابراز عشق خود بهره ببرد ولی کافی است شخصی به بیماری یا دردی مبتلا شود، مثلا سر درد، و بخواهد آن را برای دکتر خود توصیف کند، زبان به یک باره ضعیف و ناکارآمد می‌شود.وولف از صداقت و بی تعارف بودن سخنان افراد در هنگام بیماری سخن می‌گوید، خصوصیاتی که احتیاط و ادب موجود در سلامتی مانع از بیان آنها و فکر کردن به آنها میشود.
En la enfermedad podemos encontrar la lividez, el recuerdo de estar sanos, incluso el romanticismo de los síntomas que acompañan algunas enfermedades célebres para (o entre) los artistas: no existe ningún objeto prohibido al arte, porque todo es posible convertirlo en objeto de admiración.De ese modo piensa Virginia Woolf que en De la enfermedad, se permite jugar con nuestras expectativas: nos hace pensar que criticará la ausencia de la enfermedad en la literatura —algo, de todos modos, cierto sólo a medias—, para acabar haciendo una reivindicación poética del papel de la muerte en nuestra apreciación de los acontecimientos de la vida.
CONSIDERING how common illness is, how tremensdous the spiritual change that it brings, how astonishing, when the lights of health go down, the undiscovered countries that are then disclosed, what wastes and deserts of the soul a slight attack of influenza brings to light, what precipices and lawns sprinkled with bright flowers a little rise of temperature reveals, what ancient and obdurate oaks are uprooted in us in the act of sickness, how we go down into the pit of death and feel the waters of annihilation close above our heads and wake thinking to find ourselves in the presence of the angels and the harpers when we have a tooth out and come to the surface in the dentist's arm chair and confuse his ‘Rinse the mouth—rinse the mouth’ with the greeting of the Deity stooping from the floor of Heaven to welcome us—when we think of this an infinitely more, as we are so frequently forced to think of it, it becomes strange indeed that illness has not taken its place with love, battle, and jealousy among the prime themes of literature.
I'm an 18 year old girl who has lived with a debilitating chronic illness for the past 3 years and will continue to have my entire life.
The way she shares her experience with the reader is so personal and wonderful I found myself putting down this short book a couple times just to smile and ponder every word she wrote.
The experience of illness is extremely unrepresented not only in literature but in popular culture all together.
But for those who live with illness, it becomes a part of you and everything you do.
VW's thoughts into words on the inadequacy of language to capture what it is to be unwell, unfit, ill.
Empathy is as close as can get but still lacking in actual understanding.
Woolf does however relate the offshoot of illness as an affinity to the unspoken base level of being in the world at an almost plantlike rootedness in concert with soil, air and sunshine soaking luxuriously in photosynthesis.
She was the patient, her mother the caregiver, and together they laid down a framework of reaching out to bring comfort and understanding to the human condition for all time.

I liked the subject matter and the connection/metaphor/mention Woolf makes with nature and flowers, but after reading it straight through I was left a bit confused and had to reread a few passages to make sense of Woolf's point/claim.
Virginia Woolf analyzes illness from the perspective of one who has spent much of her life haunted by its specter. Although illness is experienced differently by each person, she probes collective feelings of being ill: the self pity, the delusions, the inability to imagine existence without it. This book is powerful.
Je voudrais passer une heure avec chacune de ses phrases, choisir celle que je préfère, l'apprendre par cœur mais j'en trouve une qui me plait tout autant, si ce n'est plus à chaque page qui suit.(p36-37) "En temps normal, nous devons avec affabilité entretenir cette comédie et redoubler d'efforts pour communiquer, civiliser, partager, cultiver le désert, éduquer les indigènes, travailler ensemble le jour et, la nuit, prendre du bon temps.
Mais la maladie met fin à cette mascarade.
dice Woolf que la poesía hay que leerla cuando estamos enfermos: https://lacitadeunacita.wordpress.com...
The occasionally long, convoluted, dreamy sentences do a good job of evoking the unique mindset that accompanies sickness, as does the very abrupt and apparently arbitrary shift in subject matter at the end.
In fact, the last section, which is a kind of lyrical overview of an obscure biography of two equally obscure British noblewomen that Woolf apparently read while ill, is possibly my favorite part of work.The short essay is preceded by a long introduction that exceeds its length by several pages, and does a reasonable job of providing some background on the circumstances of the writing of the work, but can definitely be skipped without losing much.One of my favorite bits:.
Virginia Woolf's article "On Being Ill" is paired with her mother's guide to amateur nursing, "Notes From Sick Rooms." Hermione Lee and Mark Hussey provide wonderful accompanying essays on the context in which these pieces were written and the interesting ways in which reading them together assists in understanding Woolf, Stephen, and illness.
I loved the writing in Woolf's "On Being Ill" (I had to pause every paragraph just to savor the words) and found Stephen's guide to be a lovely historical artifact.
"We do not know our own souls, let alone the souls of others. Human beings do not go hand in hand the whole stretch of the way. There is a virgin forest in each; a snowfield where even the print of birds' feet is unknown. Here we go alone, and like it better so. Always to have sympathy, always to be accompanied, always to be understood would be intolerable."
Only a brilliant woman could have written this essay. Must Read.
"Foreigners, to whom the tongue is strange, have us at a disadvantage. The Chinese must know the sound of Antony and Cleopatra better than we do."
At first glance, the book can be condensed to something like "illness is a significant part of life, but literature mostly avoids it." It is odd, actually, given how often literature is meant to alter, broaden, or deepen our perception and understanding of our lives and of the world, that it so rarely seems to explore illness.
Oddly, it does seem content to explore mortality and suffering -- just not so much if it has to do with a prolonged illness.
It occurs to me that the central truth of illness from a literary perspective is that illness is mostly very boring.
I love Virginia Woolf's writing and the topics she chooses to write about.
It wasn't as easily accessible as I wanted it to be, but captured a feeling as only she can.This short essay flows from topic to topic in Woolf's signature winding style, pausing here and there to recall a quote, pick up a thread, or lay out some breathtaking imagery or metaphor.
As this was a library book, I didn't have the proper time to fully grasp it, and in my ignorance and frustration at my ignorance, can only hope to encounter it again.
It is very lyrical, but ends sort of abruptly- like she was ill while writing it and drifted off to sleep.
This is because her illness she had while writing this book was both mental and physical.
During her mental illness her treatment included isolation and rest, and therefore writes about those in the book.
While reading Woolf, I have after two books and two essays developed a "Woolf" voice in my head I read with.
So the book is 122 pages.
It is strange, though, that the introduction is 36 pages and the essay 28.
Originally published by Paris Press in 2002 as On Being Ill, this new paperback edition doubles the length of the original book and includes a new Introduction to Notes from Sick Rooms by Mark Hussey, the founding editor of Woolf Studies Annual, and a new Afterword by Rita Charon, a physician and the founder and director of the Program of Narrative Medicine at Columbia University.
A new Publisher’s Note is included, and Paris Press has kept Hermione Lee’s brilliant original Introduction to On Being Ill in place and intact.
lovely and stimulating all the same
In illness we are more visibly slaves to the body. We may think we are all soul/intellect, wrapped up in a shell, but illness serves only to emphasize a truth always present: how entirely our outlook is shaped by the bodily experience. Woolf describes an appreciation of Nature's dominion, and other poetic ideas taken in through our bodily senses when we are stripped of our overruling intellect (through illness). In this way illness awakens us to new horizons, new sensory outlooks; we can acquaint ourselves with the feel of words, the scent, the flavor.
This is the 2nd work I read for Virginia Woolf and I love how critical her way of writing is. It's so rational & realistic but descriptively beautiful at the same time. It's not that hard to understand nor is it dull to read. I think I'll go on into reading her known stories like "To The Lighthouse" & so forth.
This edition, by Paris Press, creates an engaging dialogue between mother and daughter through their own works on illness/ caretaking. I love Virginia Woolf and I think her meditation on illness and its ties with creativity, as well as her notice of its lack of representation in literature (something beginning to shift in the twenty-first century) is quite accurate and interesting.
This is especially haunting if you read it straight after finishing The Voyage Out. That's what I did - by pure accident - and it honestly feels like an epilogue of sorts for that book. What can I say? It's only a couple of pages long, but, to me, it's still worth 5 stars.
small, lovely, and perfect for a gloomy Sunday morning in bed.
