https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2211221.Nothing_to_Lose
After reading about 8 of Child's Jack Reacher books, I finally found a dud.
Reacher's repeatedly doing the same thing, over and over (returning to a bad place) was tedious and so unlike our hero's usual behavior.
I just hope that Child has not run out of stories and that he will return Reacher to his previous inventive adventures.
I only read the Amazon reviews after finishing the book, and must say I am not surprised that there are 190 reviews and the average is an abyssmal 2.5 stars.
Most of his other books have averaged 4 stars.
Therefore: Hit early, hit hard.Good, almost great.As always happens when I pick up Lee Child's books, I was completely hooked and once I got into the story, I had real trouble putting it down.
The book left me with some unanswered questions and some of the answers I got were not what I expected.
Let's just say, they were somewhat unclear which I found a bit unsatisfying.So far, this one is my least favorite of Jack Reacher series.However, despite that, I considered Nothing to Lose a good read.
But most of all, Jack Reacher alone makes this book worth reading!
I'm done with Child after this latest installment.
The last few Reacher novels have really dragged and I was hoping this one might revive the series.
Obviously, this is his right as the creater of the novel but I found it completely ridiculous and hypocritical of his main character.
It would be one thing if Child had done this in previous books (Disclaimer - I've read every Reacher books and have never even smelled a hint of political rants.
Unless he takes a break from Reacher for a while and writes something else, I'm on haitus.
This from a guy who writes "wuite" eloquently.
In my mind, Jack Reacher is mine - though arguably the worst commitment-phobe, ever- but whatever! Bless Paramount for casting Tom Cruise.... who woulda thunk it. Gargantuan Jack and Tinny Tom. Match made only in Hollywood.
The nearest town is Hope, another ten miles or so from there.Throughout the book there are several mysteries going on.
When Reacher drives near the military base he is ordered to leave.Vaughan is a female cop in Hope.
He says “I’ll tell you later.”So, I’m at the end of the book, and the mysteries have been revealed, and my reaction is “what?...Oh....Not very good.” In all other Reacher books he is frequently up against several bad guys at once and wins.
Ending: mysteries are revealed, but I did not feel satisfied.THE SERIES:							Following is a list of the Jack Reacher books in order with my ratings.
I can always depend on Lee Child to keep me up all night to finish Jack Reacher’s latest “mission” to help in a desperate situation.
After a thrilling, mysterious prologue, Child has Reacher in Colorado where he finds that there is little distance between the fictional towns of Hope and Despair – both in the physicality and allegorical senses.
Child throws in a doomsday sect and a mysterious metal recycling plant into the mix.
Child’s overt political opinions didn’t ring true to Reacher’s character, especially at the end when he discovers the truth about the missing servicemen.
Jack Reacher is not the hero that I neither love nor respect any more.
I never want these books to end and so I like the way Lee Child sometimes drags the story out and adds in detail that some readers don’t want, but here it was frustrating because it was just Reacher going back and forth between the towns of Hope and Despair with not much happening in between.
Another thing about this series I don’t like is how they can all be read as standalones.
With continuing series one of my favourite things is that continuance of the characters and their lives but here we don’t always get that with Reacher.
I shoulda effin' known better.On the recommendation of quite a few (formerly) reliable folks, I finally cranked through a 500+ Jack Reacher novel.Short version: Fucking terrible.Longer and angrier version:It seems to me that Lee Child really wants to write Robert B.
But the door opened."Oh...so Jack knows how to select a key just by looking at the lock?
Well, that's good to know oh wait no it isn't WHO GIVES A FUCK?!I think there's 13 of these Jack Reacher books, and this is the 11th in the series.
Apparently Child frequently/always puts Reacher into impossible situations that he fights out of.
Child includes many details, most of which are wrong.
did I say child was repetive ?
4) Canada does not accept US deserters as refugees as it did with Viet Nam era draft dodgers/deserters.
6) if you want to read sexy scenes, forget it.
If you want to read it, turn your brain off first.
The local library suddenly has a new shelf of Lee Child books donated by patrons, they rent for $0.25/day.
It seems everybody jumped on the Reacher bandwagon, decided it was only worth 1 read and dumped it for a tax writeoff.
I've read several books in this series.
From the fact that the books usually have some logical inconsistencies to the fact that that Reacher isn't always exactly the same guy and sometimes Reacher holds forth on topics...of which he obviously is, shall we say...under-informed????
In other words he never read How to Win Friends and Influence People...He also spent many years in the Army...yet seems to have a...complicated relationship with that service.Here I just found that the story telling was a little slow and lagging and I was really almost uninterested when I finally got through the book.
Even if I find the logic lacking in the books the action and plot usually hold my interest.
Not the best of Reacher's books.
He kicked their asses right and left and it was amazing how much he got by with.
I never got the explanation of why the whole town was into the craziness.
Nothing was a big surprise to me.The best part of the book was getting an inkling of the reasons why Reacher left a job he was so good at.
There had been some allusions in past books but I think this was the strongest: Reacher thinks the US government broke the unspoken covenant with its soldiers: only send me to die when it's absolutely needed.
I wouldn't be surprised if I pick book #13 next.
My 2nd Jack Reacher book. I don't like his vigilante attitude. Funny when the same "take no prisoners" attitude is on the big screen, I'm cheering for the cowboy but in the slower medium of the printed word, I find it distasteful. And really, what woman would really fall into bed with a man who has no job and rarely changes his clothes?
My first and maybe last Jack Reacher novel.
Seems like the good guy in the story should show some restraint until there's no other choice.Beyond that, I'm guessing you only need to read one Jack Reacher novel to know them all...1.
I won't get into them here.OK, maybe just the last one (view spoiler)[ he gives his lady-cop-sex-partner the option to basically murder the bad guys in the end...
I mean, this woman is such a straight-up cop that she won't cross over the town line because of legal jurisdiction...
yet she will murder three people and destroy an entire town...
Jack Reacher, the ex-Army MP protagonist in Lee Child's long-running series, knows what duty means.
Child knows that the secret to good writing is the age-old axiom "show, don't tell." He knows that he doesn't have to tell the reader how ugly or pointless the war is, or how mistreated our soldiers are by our own government.
The "message" within the story never becomes the focus, and it never gets in the way of the story.In "Nothing To Lose", we find Reacher hitch-hiking through Colorado, and he literally finds himself walking the line between Hope and Despair.
She drops him off at the diner in Hope and tells him an interesting story.Despair, she tells him, is a company town.
But I may be wrong, maybe in America the policemen are chosen only by the mayors or the town-heads, and they dont get transferred on duty.[4] There was a lot of guesswork which turned out to be right - seems too easy to feel true.[5] Finally, the author has written about a MP station which is strategically located near the highway, the purpose of which is to ensure that trucks with specific cargo aren't stolen.
But at the end of the book, we realize that the specific cargo was ordered to be stored in the factory itself!
Then why to have an MP station, and why the location?
Even though this moved slower than some of the other installments in the Jack Reacher series, I still enjoyed it. I think what I like most is witnessing how Reacher's mind works. He's super quirky (Asperger's?) but super intelligent and always gets the job done. It's always satisfying to see the bad guys get what is coming to them as well. On to the next one!
Don't get me wrong - Burke and Child are two of my favorite authors - but the venerable Burke started a fast descent when his politics began to irrationally overpower the gripping atmospheric prose of the Mississippi delta and Dave Robicheaux's hard-hitting tales of southern noir.
So this starts out as the vintage Lee Child/Jack Reacher thrill fest, with the stoic loaner Reacher alone on a desolate highway separating the fictitious and allegorically named Colorado towns of Hope and Despair.
Lee Child is arguably the standard in contemporary thriller/action fiction, and Jack Reacher is, as so well said by the Chicago Sun-Times, "...the perfect hero, loved by women, feared by men, respected by all." But not this time.
Okay, I have been reading the Jack Reach series in order.
It is painfully obvious that Jim Grant (Lee Child)built a persona of a military officer based on fairy tales.
Jack Reacher in no way way resembles any military officer....
Mr Grant's knowledge of the military seems to been founded in the comic book escapades of Captain America and Wonder Woman's Colonel Steve Trevor.
I'm further confused as to how any woman, real or fictional, would be drawn to a man who wears the same clothes for three days and doesn't change his underwear.At any rate, I'm going to finish the series....
Yeah, we can be sure my Lee Child spree in the Jack Reacher series ends with this one.
Once in a while, reading this kind of books, I remember why I have a love/hate relationship with thrillers - they do feed my mechanic need of eating words and turning pages, but they in no way satisfy my appetite for a good story.
That being said, Lee Child is in no way a bad writer.
As always, I never regret reading any work, because there's something interesting to be found in each and every one of them, as far as my experience goes.
Jack Reacher finds himself between Hope and Despair, actually two cities.
Despair is a desolate place where everyone wants to see him out of town.
He enlists the aid of a cop in Hope and having a knack for finding trouble, Reacher gets plenty of it.
I have always liked Reacher but for some reason this year it seems as though publishers told their writers, "give me a plot involving trashing the government, the military, the war, or religious zealots.
If this plot had appeared transparent at the beginning, I probably wouldn't have finished the book.
But it wasn't apparent until I was near the end so I finished it.
Disappointing but effective installment in Child's Jack Reacher series.
This but seemed long for a Reacher thriller and might have been strengthed by cutting one of the three main plot strands.
I felt that Child made it more confusing than necessary and could have shored up the suspense with tipping his hand a little more.
Starts off great, but we've seen some of the same elements in Killing Floor, Die Trying and Echo Burning.
This is a must for fans of the series, newbies would be better off reading one of the books I mention above.
Nothing to Lose (Jack Reacher #12), Lee Child
In the end, Reacher figures out that (view spoiler)[a local Revelation enthusiast preacher/businessman is preparing a dirty bomb to incite events corresponding to Revelation prophecy, and the preacher relies on the Despair citizens to ensure no outsiders find out.
Enlisting the help of the pretty, young, female Hope police officer, Reacher is able to thwart his plans by detonating the bomb in a relatively safe place, killing the preacher Thurman and his direct lackeys (hide spoiler)].
Even at the end when Reacher finally deduces the presence of a dirty bomb in a locked shipping container, he is still mostly guessing and assuming, much like the last book.
Taking place on the eastern plains, of the state I reside in.....Jack is doing only what Jack can do. Helping out the locals and kicking A$$. Reacher is good for a little testosterone jolt.
Fourteenth chronologically in the Jack Reacher thriller series (and twelfth publication-wise) about an ex-M.P. roaming the world on his own terms and protecting the innocent.It's been ten years since he left the army.My TakeI think this was one of the scarier Reacher novels.
It certainly helped Despair protect its way of doing things that the feds had an interest there!I would'a gone around the town after being tossed out on my butt.
Although, I do love how Child provides us with a step-by-step of how Reacher plans to thwart the bad guys!
Then there was the little town of Despair, Colorado, that threw him out.
So these things ring a little off.However, once the author starts editorializing on the military history of the last 50 years, as he does at length in this work, he truly jumps the shark.
Once he starts trying to discus military technology and make it a key point of his book, well...
Don't buy this book if it's going to be your first experience with Mr. Child's work, it's not representative.
The only thing it is representative of is a far left liberal that knows zip point shit about the military, the military mind set, M1 Abrams tanks, the properties of Depleted Uranium, Law enforcement, or Military law enforcement.
Okay, say you're in America and you want to go to Canada.
It's cartoonish -- fundamentalist Christians aren't motivated to do stuff like that, don't want to kill a bunch of American civilians.And the guy flying every night to the Army base so he could deliver a cup of ashes.
Why not accumulate an actual sensible amount instead of coming back at 2:00 in the morning just to deliver a tiny bit of anonymous ashes?This reminded me of the Reacher book where a bunch of Middle Eastern muslims are using an old military silo to run an...
When he teams up with Hope's limited police force and discovers a body between the two towns, he begins to wonder if there is something going on in Despair that everyone wants kept under wraps.
Child does not make Reacher out to be a patriotic military cheerleader, but rather his usual sceptical self, leaving the reader to like Reacher even more.
There seems to be an endless supply of ideas in which Reacher could be placed that also keep the reader hooked.Kudos, Mr. Child for this poignant story that keeps Reacher fans yearning for more.
(and I concede I may have just picked it up at the wrong time).
But my guess is that, somewhere, on a Jack Reacher fan blog, there's a parody of this one called Back To The Well, One ...
Repeat, or something like that.Having said all of that, I encourage high volume folks to give Lee Child a chance - assuming, of course, you're neither offended by violence nor immune to conspiracy theory - I really enjoyed the first book in the series, and most of the others have proven excellent airplane, train, bus, and hotel reading.
taxing, there's always another Jack Reacher close at hand.
Good popcorn action with Jack Reacher.
At this point I've read/listen to a hand full of the reacher books and to me Reacher is just a superhero with no powers, like an schwarzenegger or stallone movie character.
In this book Reacher is caught in another small town (SHOCKER).
this time its Hope and Despair, two small towns in Colorado.
Like always Reacher has to stick his nose where it doesn't belong and begins investigating a metal recycling plant that engulfs the whole down of Despair.
Just like any good action star he prevails and moves on to his next mission.
