https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60941.Everyday_Use
In the story, the author further reveals what happens to the family by limitlessly supporting Dee and not trying to overcome themselves as well.
Mama is the narrator in this story; she is the mother of Dee and Maggie.
Dee is the daughter that makes it out of poverty and becomes educated because her Mama did the impossible to make sure she became someone important in life.
Even though Mama is extremely pleased of Dee’s accomplishments, we see that Dee doesn’t show any type of appreciativeness towards her mother and sister who were the people that ensured her way out of the poverty life they lived in.
Here follows a free online link to the short story Everyday Use by Alice Walker: http://xroads.virginia.edu/~ug97/quil...I enjoyed so very much how this ended. One of the characters gets her comeuppance, and that is what made me so very happy. Seeing a person you do NOT like get what they deserve is extremely satisfying. Read this. It is very good.
A great short story. Read this in my Eng lit class :)
Read this for my literature class.
Summary:A single mother raising two daughters named Maggie and Dee.
Character) Maggie, the younger daughter, shy and low self esteem due to scars on arms and legs.
Dee, outgoing and well dressed daughter with a nicer figure than Maggie.
They appear to be round and dynamic characters throughout the story.
Dee goes from never bringing her friends around her family to visiting her family with her new friend Asalamalakim.
The mother, the narrative of the story goes from never telling Dee no to finally standing up for what’s right and giving the quilts to Maggie instead of Dee. The quilts symbolized the heritage of their ancestors.
I've remembered this woman's self-description for thirty years without knowing what book or who wrote it; I happy to now have a place for it."In real life I am a large, big-boned woman with rough, man-working hands.
In the winter I wear flannel nightgowns to bed and overalls during the day.
I can kill and clean a hog as mercilessly as a man.
My fat keeps me hot in zero weather.
I can work outside all day, breaking ice to get water for washing.
My hair glistens in the hot bright lights.
I read this short story in a lit anthology and was instantaneously touched by the contention of true heritage.
Throughout the story Walker illustrates one’s cultures and heritage are represented not only the possession of objects, but by our lifestyle and attitudes towards our life’s.
The main characters in this story, "Mama" and Maggie on one side, Dee on the other, each have opposing views on the value and worth of the various items in their lives, and the author uses this conflict to make the point that the substance of an object, and of people, is more important than style.
The story strikes, sudden and urgent it takes you away, touching on concepts of old and new, integrity or giving in to the new world order, I personally couldn't fight the tears as I was reading the last lines from this simple but potent tale of mothers and daughters. I strongly suggest it.
A short story that was full of symbolism and imagery. I enjoyed this look into the life of a family that is learning what their heritage really is and how to use it.
The quilts were never meant for the walls.
In the story “Everyday Use” By Alice Walker, Mama, who is the narrarator expresses the tragedy that brings her to appreciate life and her culture.
She expresses to mama why she wants them,(but lets not forget when mama offered them to her, and Dee was ashamed of them.) mama tells her she had promised to give them to Maggie, she argues with mama to prove that Maggie will use them for “Everyday Use”.
At the end, Mama gives the quilts to Maggie, and she tells Dee to take one or two of the others.
The main theme that the author introduced in this short story was the importance of heritage and culture and remembering ones roots is a major part of life and how it should be valued.
She then feels shocked and angered that her mother would deny her the quilts that were handmade by her grandmother, that they would belong to Maggie once she marries.
The mother realized because of the different paths each daughter took in life that it would be Maggie who knew the true value behind the quilts and the one who would really esteem them.
I believe this short story can make you realize how hard a mother has worked and not thanking her enough.
I believe Dee wanted to better herself and now that she has gotten educated she thinks she is better then her family, and Mama has been poor all her life and has worked so hard she might have just gotten used to that type of life.
Since Dee had been getting educated, Mama felt warmth in her heart when she finally gave Maggie more respect by giving her the quilt.
Dee got educated, and Maggie is getting some gifts that mean a lot to her and time with her Mama.
However, I think that I was not able to fully understand the plot because I didn't have much connection to the text, but there were some parts of the story that were intriguing to me and those are the parts that I would like to point out.
Those emotional connections might be seen in those reality TV shows, but not in Mrs. Johnson's life.
She says that if the quilts is given to Maggie, her younger and shy sister, then Maggie will only use it for displays--in a way, this indirectly shows what Dee plans to do.
So after a long long while without hearing Dee’s news since she went to college, Mama received a letter by Dee that she’s coming home, along with a friend.
Dee was described as a confident girl, but at the same time, she hated her life at home and hated those cultures.
It has already became “African-American culture.”  And…well, the point is, if you love all those culture meaning behind those colonized country and the influence brought by the Civil Right Movement, I think you’ll like this book.
Alice Walker gained a worldwide reputation for her famous novel, The Color Purple, published in 1982, for which she won a Pulitzer Prize and the American Book Award in 1983. She was the first African American woman to earn these two awards. "Everyday Use" is one of Walker’s popular short stories which takes place in the 1960s during the Civil Rights Movement, when African-Americans, especially young adults, were discovering their heritage and affirming their cultural identity. "Everyday Use" i
Maggie’s low self esteem and feelings of inferiority are evident in the following passage, “Maggie will be nervous until after her sister goes: she will stand hopelessly in corners, homely and ashamed of the burned scars down her arms and legs, eying her sister with a mixture of envy and awe.” Maggie’s original impression of her sister, that she “has held life always in the palm of one hand, that “no” is a word the world never learned to say to her,” as well as her self confidence changes at the end of the story when her mother stands up for her and firmly tells Dee that she cannot take the quilts because she promised them to Maggie.
The way Alice presented Dee to us is a person who always knew that she never wanted the life her mother lived, and said that when she visited she would never take her friends there.
Giving the fact that she is so out of touch with her background she wants to take every antique in her mothers home as if that is her still intact with her old roots.
The point that Alice is making through this story is to keep in touch with your heritage and be happy from where you come from.
Alice Walker shows an African American family who live in poverty but who are comfortable without complains.
Mama and Maggie are not materialistic, they rather to live a happy life than to have the nicest of things.
“Everyday Use” is a great short-story to read, it gives you culture and a relationship between a mother and two daughters.
Another that has the complete opposite interests and doesn't connect with Mama, Dee. It also opens your eyes to how a mother thinks after feeling as if her daughter sees her as disgust for living how she does.
“Everyday Use” by Alice Walker is a short story of a small African-American family that consisted of Mama (narrator), Maggie (youngest daughter), and Dee (eldest daughter).
Mama was an old fashioned woman; Maggie was a quiet and timid girl; Dee, on the other hand, was well educated and fallowed trends of her time.
One day, Dee and her new boyfriend come back to visit Mama and Maggie.
These quilts held sentimental value to Mama and had been promised to Maggie as a future wedding gift.
Mama and Maggie were happy with being common.
Just as Dee went about to find a new life and grow in every way possible Dee is ashamed and doesn’t want here friends to know were she lived in the past because of how her mother and sister act, dress and speak.
I believe every one goes through a similar face in life because when we are small no child wants there parents to go our school especially if there are children with much more wealth and there parents dress like movie stars.
She has a mother and a sister who does not like change but Dee in the contrary has dreams to grow in every way possible and not end up in the poor town.
Mama is the single mother of her two daughters, Dee and Maggie.
When Dee arrives, she presents her boyfriend Hakim and before kissing her mother hello she begins to take pictures of Mama and Maggie outside their home.Mama learns how much her daughter Dee has changed at a first glance in her appearance.
The quilts were made by Mama’s mother, aunt, and grandmother so they go back all the way to the Civil War. When Mama realizes that the asking for these quilts affects Maggie’s reaction by dropping a plate and slamming the door, she offers Dee to take other quilts.
She makes me feel that even though we all live different lives, we are all the same in every way.An African American single mother raises two daughters that have different meanings of life and heritage.
Even though Dee is educated she doesn't know what the true meaning of heritage is.
To the mother the quilt is not for decorating it is more meaningful and represents the heritage of her family and only Maggie can relate to their true heritage not Dee who disrespected her heritage by changing her name to Wangero.I believe Alice Walker wants the readers to appreciate what we have in life.
The story narrated by Dee and Maggie’s mother will provide us an example of how one of them will decide to dispose her cultural and family heritage to pursue her own success; while the other decides to embrace her social status.In the story Walker provide us the view of a mother that is concerned for her daughter, due to her mentality to oppress her family heritage as Dee describes “being named after the people who oppressed me” witch leads her to change her name.
Walker describes in detail the battle between personalities of Dee (Wangero) and her mother, the fight to brake from her cultural appeal.
In the story “Everyday Use” by Alice Walker we see how mama is waiting and dying to see her oldest daughter Dee. She starts off imagining how it would be like when she finally gets to the house and goes on describing both of her daughters.
It also show me about attitude and made me see how being fearless and confidence are some characteristics that would guide you out of poverty like it did with Dee. Alice Walker was also an African American and I like how she put in this story that Dee boyfriend was Arabic because it come to show she is not racist and believes in love outside your race.
Here are some phrases we should all keep in mind daily to live a better way, “Be strong, but not rude; Be kind, but not weak; Be bold, but not bully; Be humble, but not timid; Be proud, but not arrogant.”The reason I mention this guidelines to life is because I was moved by the story, “Everyday Use,” by Alice Walker.
Little did I know; till I read this story, that no matter how hard you try to escape a life you do not want, what good use it will be if you become defective in other ways.
In "Everyday Use," she touches on the issue of heritage and culture.
By portraying the attitudes of two different sisters seen through the eyes of their mother, Walker illustrates the trends shown by young black women toward their heritage and family.
The first trend is shown by some who are rebellious to their culture- they want to change the old-fashioned, antiquated manners of life.
the "Disneyfication" of culture makes it superficial and irrelevant in everyday life.
The other trend is embracing culture and being proud of it- using heritage items in daily life in a way that ensures its liveliness.
Long story short, I have an aunt who came from a poor family and is now a school teacher but she acts just like Dee who doesn’t realize where she came from and thinks she is better than everyone.
Dee doesn’t want to remember where she came from because in the story she tells her mother that she changed her name to Wangero because of the fact that “Dee” was her being named after her grandmothers.
Although I do believe mama is proud of her daughter Dee for becoming successful because she herself did not even finish school.
I have read this story many times.Each time, I am equally interested.Still, like other books, I do f
Just like the story Two Kinds, Every Day Use stresses a mother and daughter relationship.
The speaker in the story is the mom of two very different girls, Maggie and Dee. Maggie had stayed with her mother living a traditional life, but her sister Dee had gone off to school and returned with a different name, an African American identity, and a new boyfriend.
To Maggie’s and the mother’s surprise, Dee didn’t return glamourous but instead wearing traditional African clothes.
Dee asks her mom if she can take the quilt that was woven by her grandmother and that was intended for Maggie.
