https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/724007.Craven_House
English boarding houses seem to be a rich topic for authors to explore, given the fact that many different ages and personalities are thrown together because, let's face it, they have no where else to go.
This is his first novel, written when he was 21, and is so much fun to read that it's almost a shame.
I loved every word.My first Patrick Hamilton book was "Slaves of Solitude", also set in a boarding house, with darker themes, but also lots of humor.
Now I can't wait to read more, although I understand that he gets deeper into noir in his later novels.
Craven House was the first major novel by Patrick Hamilton and was published in 1926, and captures that moment when, following World War 1, the certainties of the Edwardian way of life eroded until English society was changed for ever.
As with other books by this wonderful writer, his acute powers of observation enrich all the characters with little phrases and idiosyncrasies that are clearly drawn from real life and so authentically evoke a sense of time and place, and are all described in Hamilton's gloriously atmospheric prose.There is barely disguised tension between the occupants of Craven House, in addition to an intergenerational conflict being slowly fought between the young people and their elders.
I'd give it five stars for pure enjoyment, but I'm ranking it a shade below The Slaves of Solitude and Hangover Square because they're even better.Patrick Hamilton is one of my favorite writers and I'd never even heard of him before last year.
"Craven House" is the name of the boarding house where the novel is set, but it might be too quiet a title for modern readers.
It's a British comedy of manners, GODDAMMIT!New Cover Suggestion: Okay, I admit that there are no pirates in this novel.
Whatever, it's still a better cover.Cheers!
While Craven isn’t as polished as Hamilton’s later work – he was only twenty-two when the book was first published in 1926 – there is still much to enjoy here, particularly in the use of the setting as a vehicle for fiction.In some ways, Craven House could be thought of as a collection of character studies, an exploration of the lives and traits of the somewhat disparate group of individuals who inhabit this dwelling.
While very little actually happens in the way of plot – the book reads like a sequence of episodes or occurrences – there is much to treasure in the characterisation, especially in relation to the younger residents of the house.To read my review, please click here:https://jacquiwine.wordpress.com/2018...
Craven House is the story of a genteel London boarding house and its inhabitants in the first two decades of the twentieth century – a sort of early practice piece for the later The Slaves of Solitude .
Hamilton was only 21 when he wrote this early novel, so he had good reason to be pretty pleased with himself.
The young Hamilton had already developed his ear for everyday speech and mannerisms, and these are skillfully deployed at boarding house meal times – an agony of respectability – and in the rather sparse society below stairs.
He manages to craft a page-turner out the lives of 7-8 Londoners who live in a house together and are BEYOND ordinary, it's almost painful to imagine these people in real life.
By the end of the novel, you feel like you've known them forever and you're just an unnamed tenant of Craven House.
I also am just desperately in love this period of time; Hamilton makes sure to cover pre-WWI, WWI, and post-WWI through the eyes of his characters.
I think what I love about Hamilton's writing the most is that although his books and plays are surrounded by war, rarely, if ever, do we actually SEE the war.
I was a bit worried when I started reading this book, because I love Patrick Hamilton so my expectations were high, and for the first hundred pages I was a little disappointed.It read like a series of well-drawn character studies and their interactions in stifled, polite social situations; all very funny but not much of the characters' underlying emotions and turmoil was expressed here, so I wasn't as engaged as I have been previously.
Then it started to get going and this book feels like a practice run for his darker, later novels and his themes of unrequited love, prostitutes, drink and spinsters.
How does a writer who produced such gems as "Craven House" and "The Slaves of Solitude" fade from the collective memory?
It is a Travesty.Craven House, like the Slaves of Solitude, is about a boarding house and the tenants living therein.
In his preface to the 1943 edition (the book was originally published in 1926), the author mentions two flaws in the book: "congestion" of style, and sentimentality.
It goes without saying that to readers of almost 100 years in the future, stories like these are a glimpse into a bygone era of which we cannot know anything except through reading such books, and to us they are essential.
I came to this recently, after having read a good deal of Patrick Hamilton, beginning with NYRB's Twenty Thousand Streets Under the Sky. I was delighted to locate the Black Spring Press 2008 Edition, along with Through a Glass Darkly, a Hamilton biography.My review consists simply of this: There is a finesse in this book, a seamless, a blend of domestic horror and absurdist comedy.
I was not surprised to find humor in his early work, but I was delighted to find myself laughing aloud at the almost screwball comedy of this scene.
The playwright is evident.
It is sometimes interesting to discover the evolution of a significant author and CRAVEN HOUSE provides such an opportunity for those interested in the growing literary acclaim of the late Patrick Hamilton (1904-62).
However, it does demonstrate his initial efforts to develop a distinctive voice that reveals much about the sociological environment of London in the Edwardian and early post-World War I era.
His failed efforts, however, reveal how he would develop as an author of works of literary significance and social commentary in subsequent years.
CRAVEN HOUSE is but Hamilton's early gateway to greener mansions in the literary world.
Hamilton's 1st novel, written when he was 21 - brilliantly sets out the themes he was to write about in subsequent novels.
What a lovely read so far...funny
[Being one of my all time favourite novelists].This one's warmer and more conventional perhaps than the Hamilton Blockbusters, but still gorgeous.
Master Wildman's schooldays should sit alongside Copperfield's for the accuracy and comedy of that picture.
At his best, it's like a timeless classic British sitcom (Diary of a Nobody meets a better-run Fawlty Towers), complete with a playful, meddling narrator.
Hamilton does a terrific buffoon.
He does lower middle class and working class smalltalk with more empathy than the best Eastenders writer.
That remembered moment where Wildman junior doesn't return his father's searching look for approval.
AddictedI'm so taken with Patrick Hamilton's writing I can scarcely approach the end of one of his books without worrying it'll be the last one I haven't yet read. He writes like Elizabeth Taylor (no, the novelist, not the actor) with a generous topping of (usually) gentle humour. Understated, introspective, brilliantly observed and, to me, unputdownable. I wish I had known him.
Funny (ha ha), funny (odd), brilliant social comedy punctured by moments of real poignancy and emotion. Most surprisingly, as the plot of this book develops, it turns out to be a rallying call to the disempowered. I loved it.
Once one of my favourite writers, but not as good as I remembered now I am older
The language of the book is very much of its time and some readers may find that difficult.
Essentially a love story, the characters are all inhabitants of a boarding house in London.
As Hamilton weaves his various plots lines together the role played by the house assumes a greater importance and almost becomes a character within the narrative itself - but not invasively or in a sinister way.
So the ending, which I could not predict has a pathos that gradually creeps up on the reader.
The characters have their individual foibles and the tension he creates amongst them as the story progresses gives this book a mannered pace.
