https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/754001.They_d_Rather_Be_Right
There's a similar schizophrenia when it comes to faith, which is alternately lauded (as in the quote above) and held up for derision: by the very same characters.“Whatever the university attended, whatever the degree obtained, the simple fact, as he had observed it in men’s minds, was that most men, even scientists, do not have the courage to follow the basic tenets of science; that even though they may call it science, they actually stand upon a structure of faith.” In addition to these strange inconsistencies, the book is full of obnoxiously self-satisfied pronunciations.
A little.The characters were right out of 1930's stock scientist hero manuals, the old fat and stupid men and women who got to become supermen were a flipped sheet of paper, almost a perfect one-dimensional representation, and the way the novel flies through complicated ideas without stopping to smell the roses on any except one just made me wonder what the hell this novel was FOR.
We probably didn't need more than 20% of the actual text to get this joke across nicely.
In an age when too much SF was just short pulp, it tried to be more thoughtful.* And the characters, especially Carney (but not Jeff, unfortunately) are a little more complex & interesting than most pulp characters.
And in fact fun is poked at a talented SF hack.I do wonder if Rowling read it, as the scientists originally worked at Hoxworth University.A "rigid intellectual honesty [is] that one faculty which makes the scientist different from any other calling.""[N]o woman could fill all of a man's life...
the woman who tries to monopolize both love and companionship usually winds up with neither."I want to check what the contenders were for the Hugo that year.
I'm glad I didn't read any reviews before reading the book.
I'm completely baffled why this book is panned so heavily.
I thoroughly enjoyed the book.
I thought the story was captivating and there was some interesting commentary on human psychology, especially toward the end.
Avoid the naysayers and give this book a try.
I think the majority of the negative reviews are from people who have accepted the opinion that this is "the worst book to win a Hugo" as fact, without question.
Sort of interesting for a book that talks so much about opinion control and the vain certainty of our beliefs.
Historically this book has been regarded as the “worst” Hugo Award winner ever and has been accused of plot holes, poor writing, and even has made some critics question the public who chose it for a win.
Bossy is able to release man from all these limitations, able to, on a cellular level, get your body functioning right and without any limitations, any restrictions, it argues that things like illness all come from the weights of life, and once freed of those our cells are able to work at their full potential, like changing the oil of a car.
Often derided as the worst book ever to win a Hugo, They'd Rather Be Right is a prime example of the disposable pulp fiction that flourished during Sci-Fi's "Golden Age." The novel's central character, Joe, is basically a benevolent version of The Mule from Asimov's Foundation and Empire, the most obvious regurgitation in a work defined by its tendency to retread ideas that even then were already thoroughly explored.Clifton's interest in the then-promising science of psychology is as enthusiastic as Alfred Bester's, but less informed.
It's the sort of Utopian nonsense that science fiction quickly matured out of, and interesting solely as a peek into the fledgling genre.
I don't understand how this book win the "HUGO" award.
By far not the best of the Hugos, but it's an engaging little story.
Storyline: 3/5Characters: 2/5Writing Style: 3/5Resonance: 2/5This winner of the second Hugo award for novels would later be scorned by critics as the worst book ever to win the Hugo.
The voters in 1955 or the later science fiction authors with their advantages of hindsight?I, myself, reveled in the story's ambition.
In both of these areas - science and society - the book was quality speculative fiction and social criticism.
The satisfaction I took in their social criticism was similarly counterbalanced by the pedantry which took up about half the book.
I can believe (without any actual research) that this was the best science fiction book in 1954.
I applaud their insight into the subject, whether intentional (researched) or not (intuitive), and their effort to explain it to the common man through this work of speculative fiction.
If nothing else it will provoke profound thought and self-examination and promote stimulating debates, at least with those familiar with the subject of NTRs. Do not so readily dismiss this book!This is speculative fiction at its finest, and perhaps a prophetic work as well.
Sinceramente me esperaba mucho más.Me ha parecido muy 'estadounidense' y el mundo de la telepatía y todo eso, está bien, pero no me ha interesado demasiado como lo abordan.Cita preferida:"La verdad asusta al ser humano.
Este planta falsas ideas en los escombros de su mente para esconderse de la clara luz blanca que trae la verdad.
En sus prejuicios y en sus ideas preconcebidas, el ser humano dicta, con antelación, la forma que ha de tener la verdad, y los vestidos que pueda llevar, y por eso no acostumbra reconocerla cuando la encuentra.
Sus falsas ideas le alejan de ella.»Y, pese a todo, el ser humano sigue anhelando y buscando la verdad.»Esto es inherente a la naturaleza humana.
One of my favorite passages is the one where the mechanic thinks to himself that only 5% of the population really understands the machinery that our civilization is built on, and they have to carry the weight of the other 95%.
Then the art professor thinks to himself that only 5% of people truly understand culture, the other 95% are ignorant to the point of worthlessness.
Then the business man ponders how 5% of people carry the economy and the other 95% are dead weight.We all carry our prejudices into everything we do, see and even think.
When people are connected to a biological reworking aspect of the machine, IF they possess the ability to have their means of thinking deeply influenced by a persuasive outside force, they are transformed into youthful, rational, telepathic being--humanity perfected.The book dares to ask some interesting questions about how society might react to such a device existing, and it's an interesting read up to the point where it tries to ask this question.
Some of the interpersonal interactions where the young psion is subtly influencing the thoughts and actions of others were interesting scenes to read, but the overall impression I got from the end of the book is that it reached for something that was far outside its grasp.
I picked up this book, as it seems almost anyone who reads it these days does, simply because it has a reputation for being 'The Worst Book to ever win a Hugo Award." How can you resist a reputation like that?
Here we have plenty of pseudo-intellectual noodling, cynical babbling about how 'only the top 5% of humanity is worth saving,' and the all too common 'scientists never think about the morality of their actions.' Worst of all, and the objection that as far as I can tell is most often made about this novel, it has a shockingly empty, unresolved ending.
It's thankfully rare that the Hugo award goes to a book that takes a dim view of science in general.
However, the style of the book is exceptionally off-putting, so it takes a good deal of willpower to look past it and actually engage with those ideas.Mostly this book feels like the self-important theorizing of a young white man who is overly impressed with his own philosophical genius.
Honestly, given the fact that this book is all about the arrogance of humanity, about our tendency to cling to our assumptions and our preconceived notions of what’s right over what is real, the irony of Joe's character is astounding.If you can get past the overwhelming WHITE MALE BRILLIANCE, there are some interesting ideas in the book.
This is a classical example of the golden age SF, pulps that had not a lot of science in them but great imagination.
It’ll tingle your nostalgia nerve if you are after such kind of book, but if you prefer more modern SF it may seem weak.The story concerns Joe Carter, the first human telepath.
Of course such an AI is desired by anyone.The story is very uneven, great parts are intermingled with very dull ones, so that its mark fluctuates from 5 stars to 2 and back again.
Science is a kind of naïve hand-waving but dialogues and insights about human nature are pure gold.
A prime example where the description of the book had very little to do with it. The story has hardly anything to do about the Bossy "machine" but rather about the people. One is trying to find and later make more psychics like himself. Another is worried that society hasn't produced any new ideas in a very long time. In end, the book goes nowhere. Another bad attribute is each chapter seems to be disjointed from the rest and starts to really ramble at the end. Sorry I decided to read this one because it was a Hugo.
I'm at a loss how this novel won the Hugo. I'd like to believe it is an unfortunate victim of the ever improving standards against which Hugo candidates are measured, or that there was a dearth of competitive candidates in 1954-55. But then I recall that that was the same publication year as "I am Legend", "Brainwave" and all three novels of Tolkein's "The Lord of the Rings" saga.They could have done better.That said, it did win and warrants a (quick) read if only to serve as a cautionary lesson how not to develop your "big idea" into a novel.
This book was the first book to win the Hugo Award for science fiction in 1955, one year after the prize was announced. It is a science and philosophy book which could be considered boring upon today's standards. It was a limited enjoinment in reading this book, more curiosity to see how things have progressed since.I want to read all the Hugo winners in their orders. So my next one is Double Star by Robert Heinlein (Hugo 1956).
“one of the twelve most influential books in science fiction.” said Barry N. Malzberg but I can't imagine why. There's nothing novel (even for the time of writing, I think) about it, and a whole lot of handwaving.   It's not influencing me, at least in any good way.
Although this novel about a super computer is a bit dated and silly it makes some good points, and it is a quick easy read, unlike most science fiction novels.The main theme of the book is that science and human advancement is greatly impeded by the establishment’s refusal to think outside the box.
Joe is a(nother) telepath, but he’s alone, the only one of his kind, and with far more ability to read, and manipulate, minds than the ones we found The Demolished Man. He’s alone, and lonely, and is trying to push human evolution forward so he won’t be, though that’s not apparent right away.The first two supporting characters we meet in the opening scene.Billings appeared in at least one of the two previous stories (as did the other scientist on the run), as did Hoskins, and the two of them with Joe ran away from their academic institution (Billings & Hoskins are, or rather were, professors) with the incredible machine they built.
There's some rather sophisticated thinking about how the media influences public opinion in the world of this book.
The speaker is a PR hotshot."All over the country, all over the world, maybe, they rush to the microphone to tell people what to think about this discovery.
When you get people confused, they get sore.
Best way on earth to make a guy sore, give him a slow burn.
They don't like the guy who can do it."He grinned then, and winked at them---man to man."Besides sex, the one thing the public does best is get sore.
That's the only way you're ever going to make thinking popular.
I do know that this is not a good book from any kind of literary perspective, and one that buries its occasional good ideas under tedious essays.The story begins with Joey, an 8 year old boy in a working class family who is a telepath.
They then seek shelter with Kennedy, the last independent industrial titan, and then re-use a public outcry about the potential of immortality to get Bossy approved by the government and sold as a mass-market consumer device.So yeah, as you can see, the plot has grand ideas, but does almost nothing to link them together.
Also the character of the PR person was highly amusing in his mix of cynicism and good cheer.This book does have a fairly fatal amount of Telling instead of Showing, causing it to often come off as a simplistic philosophy lecture by someone who hasn't quite thought through his thought experiment.
Still, it was just two hours of my life to read, and the solution that the characters come up with to the problem of who should control Bossy was well presented.Also amusing to me: the conclusions drawn at the end of the first two novels to win a Hugo award are essentially the same: “One day we'll all be telepathic and then everything will be great.” Okay, if you say so.
While I think it’s well and good to postulate on the idea of immortality, I also think Mark Clifton and Frank Riley left something to be desired in the presentation.
But the reaction she gets from the public seems resolved only in the sense that she is the Singularity—the technological thing that surpasses human intellectual capacity so that civilization can only change in unpredictable, incomprehensible ways.
Instead the narrative relies on philosophical waxing disguised as passages of general public reaction, of crowds being inexplicably angry at Bossy and just as inexplicably excitable over her potential.
I've been trying to read all the Hugo winners, and I've definitely been putting this one off for a while.
And then suddenly Joe is just doing it all over the place.And the machine.
Anyways, I'm kind of iffy on what exactly Bossy is supposed to be.
But Joe decides he can use it to fix people.
Joe's lone telepathy was kind of interesting, the idea of "opinion control" was an interesting dystopian little idea, and the fighting for control of the immortality machine also was interesting.
I actually surprised myself by saying that!Once I heard that there was near-universal consensus on which book is "the worst", I decided to read this book.
There were many reasons why I heard it was the worst:1) Alfred Bester's "The Stars My Destination" should have won it, but the Hugo Judges didn't want to give it to Bester two times in a row.
This contains both prequel stories, as well as the 100% unabridged Hugo-winning story of "They'd Rather Be Right" (stupidly renamed to "Bossy").The two prequels are "Crazy Joey" by Mark Clifton with Alex Apostolides (August 1953), and "Hide!
While we certainly don't have any machines that have granted humanity immortality, I do wonder how much of Clifton's pseudo-scientific vision of the future he would actually find fulfilled through the decades of science and research that have been completed since he penned this book.
Also entirely relevant, in light of today's political climate, was Clifton's exploration of a person's ability to continue to learn, grow and embrace new ideas, as opposed to doggedly clinging to previously held beliefs as if no other possibilities existed.
I'll admit that They'd Rather Be Right was a bit long in the tooth.
I mention this because it's the perfect analogy for this terrible and important book.The writing is average at best but I awarded it five stars anyway, because the ideas are magnificent.
It's also vaguely ridiculous they manage to turn a servo mechanism into an immortality machine, but the science is not this books strong, or most important point.
Both science and faith suffer equally in this regard and I'd dare say, our persistent belief in righteousness of capitalism and market forces.Now, more than ever "They'd rather be right" shines a blinding light and forces us to look in the mirror at what path our civilisation is on.
