https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/693172.Twilight_Eyes
Ok I'm finally finished....and I figured it out....Dean Koontz did not write this book.....it was a Goblin!!! This diabolical Goblin wrote this book to torture and harrass Dean's faithful readers. Bad goblin...bad..bad goblin!!!So for the rest of you readers, don't read this book, your pain and suffering will only feed the Goblin!
Semen. So much semen... But that doesn't change my love for the first half of this book, a first half that's so good, I forgive the lackluster second half completely. So five stars is right, you monsters. Why do I mention semen? Find out that and other things here: https://youtu.be/WxsVZSxLq3o
The first thing that I picked up on were pieces like this worked into the opening of many chapters."Every hour the radio news told us of Kitty Genovese, who had been killed two days ago.
"Not all of the evil in the world comes from the goblins." I cannot read this part of Twilight eyes, or listen to The Simon and Garfunkel's Silent Night without recalling the other.
"Not all of the evil in the world is caused by the Goblins." In the book, the character "Jolly" a kindly man, nothing like the sailor off of the Brown save the senselessness of his death, was found dead on the merry go round.
He's also been cursed, for Slim can see the monsters hiding among us, feeding on our suffering.And when Slim joins a traveling carnival seeking sanctuary, what he'll find is a hunting ground-with humanity as the prey.What makes it even more compelling, are what he sees, the "goblins" hiding inside, the monsters wearing the perfect disguises, looking and sounding all too human, invisible to us, but not to him.
And, look around, at some of the horrible things done to people by other people, it makes the idea of "goblins" hiding inside, all too real.
Основната идея се върти повече около уродливостта, която някои хора носят в себе си, отколкото в злото като външен фактор.
По- лесно е човек да прехвърли отговорността за действията си върху нещо или някой друг, отколкото върху неговия съзнателен избор.
Точно такова беше усещането ми, докато четях " Отвъдни очи".
Преходът между първата и втората част ми се стори много наивно- нелогичен, но явно авторът се е опитал да награди история, която вече е била завършена.
Първата част ми беше доста досадна, но поне към края историята се отприщи, стана по- интересна, а с втората част, действието престана да буксува на едно място и тръгна в по- вълнуваща посока.
This has still got to be my all-time favourite Koontz novel. I have re-read it numerous times, and will no doubt continue to do so. I still feel like there should be a sequel to it!Slim McKenzie and Rya Raines are two of the coolest characters in the world of fiction. And this book actually made me want to run and join the carnival.
This book is utter shit, but when I read the sex scene near the beginning as a self-exploring man-child of 14 years of age, I couldn't help but think, "Now THERE'S something that'll happen to me painfully infrequently as an adult!"Don't worry, this was my one and only Koontz book; I tried to read more and they were just fucking awful. I blame my mother for interests in these types of novels.
The second half of the novel is set in a small town that has become a hive for these monsters.The narrator of his own story, Slim MacKenzie is a seventeen year-old drifter from Oregon, who is athletic, sensitive, morally upright and older than his years, traits that we are constantly being reminded of as though Koontz is trying hard to convince us of their accuracy.
One of my Koontz favorites and also one of the first few of his I read. Nightmares but I was in county jail (my violent ex said I hit him too so I would go to jail too) so between my wariness of carnies, the bizarre plot and my just-as-bad reality, mind bending. Even the CO asked if I was alright when I would wake up. Honestly, I finished it at a much later date. But recommend it HIGHLY.
But it's the humor and hope that gives Koontz "Favorite Author" status in my mind.
Anyway, it's still actually a good story.At the start of this book we have a 17 year old boy named Slim sneaking into a carnival in the dead of night (couldn't resist saying that), intending to get some sleep and try to join up the following day.
He makes friends at the carnival - and actually, he's attacked by a zombie goblin at one point.
Despite the demotion from my favorites shelf, this is actually a first rate tale and is entirely responsible for my love of supernatural horror stories.
While an excellent read I find it difficult to describe. At the time it was quite original material. I do believe it's a topic that has been copied since then but never mastered quite as well. Again Mr. Koontz walks that thin line between believable scifi/thriller without going over the edge into the unbelievable. good read, fast paced without being hurried or forced along. Worth picking up.
Slim is excellent at everything in carnivals too, he can ring the bell with his muscles, take everyone's money (non-carnies are evil), kill the special goblins, and fix sexy & sad 20-something Rya Raines by fucking her into nirvana on the side of a lake the first night.
Rya Raines is cold to everyone else of course, because her tragic backstory outweighs Slim's own and she's also perfect, although her perfect comes more in "look at that tight ass", and "round boobs" and that sort of description.
October 2018 Group Read In this read, I find the descriptive "lovemaking " scenes & chapters more intense. Making the Goblin's hunts less important to Carl & Rya as they love & protect each other. I find the love episodes described are written well. My August 2016 read Main characters are Carl MacKenzie (Slim/book's first person, "I") and Rya Rains (runs Sombra Brothers Carnival in YortSlim). Slim has no where to go, Rya becomes his boss and lover (love episodes described in detail)
In this read, I find the descriptive "lovemaking " scenes & chapters more intense.
Making the Goblin's hunts less important to Carl & Rya as they love & protect each other.
I find the love episodes described are written well.
My August 2016 read
Slim has no where to go, Rya becomes his boss and lover (love episodes described in detail).
They are hunted by Goblins; monsters with clawed hands giving torment, horror and bloody murders to others.Many Goblins have hidden identities such as: Chief Lisle Kelso of Yontsdown & Patrolmen.Goblins and Slim/Rya have great escapes and hand-to-hand body attacks.
I first read this book as a teenager, and it's been a favorite ever since.To be able to see through a persons facade, and reveal the real person/beast beneath is an amazing gift that Slim has. This may not be the absolute best book I've ever read, but I just really love that angle.I think I'm a pretty good judge of character, and can see where a person is coming from pretty quickly. I'm nowhere near as good as him though! :-)
I'm giving a rating to the 30 dollar special illustrated edition I bought so many years ago--it was one of the most painful disappointments of my youth--so much money for so little story. The illustrations were amazing (one of the foxy heroine and one of a creature under some wood paneling were great) but the story just was so much B.S.--the carnival setting didn't help either... oh god... the trauma... so bad...so...
This is the first book I read from Dean Koontz. I had a long bread between clients one day and decided to go find something to read since I had finished another book. I had a very hard time putting this book down and I kept thinking to myself "Is this real?" that is how he writes. He talkes about real places and inputs a bazaar idea into real life. Scared me to death. Great writer.
Took a bit longer to read this one. I felt it had too much Sci-fi stuff in it which I have no interest in. Of course it was still a good and suspenseful book. The back story was too out their for my liking. It was an immature Odd Thomas.
Too ridiculous to finish!
4.75 because I didn't like Rya that much 🌚
In 1987 Koontz expanded the story by writing the second part and published it again...which unfortunately shows.Part 1 is interesting: Slim McKenzie, A 17-year old boy who sees monsters he names "goblins" wanders into a carnival to find peace.
But Slim has Twilight Eyes, a powr which allows him to see through the curtain and kill the wicked creature beneath.I usually don't care for Koontz's characters, but this book is a bit different that his others.
I was sort intrigued at the outset--the writing is a little more solid than most Koontz books and initially he did a fair job of allowing us to see of the interior doubts of the main character.
At first the narrator, referred to as Slim, does not seem reliable, which is very unusual for Koontz, as he usually deals only in characters that are purely good or purely evil (one of the reasons why his books are often so boring).
Both Slim and his girlfriend have some kind psychic abilities, another crutch Koontz regularly uses to help his characters solve problems when he writes himself into a corner.
Dean Koontz has created an epic back history in Twilight Eyes, much like he did with Phantoms.
The lead characters bring to mind Odd and Stormy who will years later be the feature love story in Dean's most well-known work, Odd Thomas.
Like Odd Thomas, the character of Slim McKenzie is connected to the carnival setting and has the paranormal ability to see things that most people can not.
It seems apparent that Dean left the story of Twilight Eyes open for a possible sequel.
Таласъми се хранят с болката на хората: http://knigolandia.info/book-review/o...
Историята започва доста ала “Джойленд”, но бързо си отива в посока страховит хорър – главният герой Слим Маккензи е преждевременно пораснал младеж, който има дарбата да вижда чудовищата, които населяват телата на част от хората около него.
Чудовищата, наричани от него таласъми, обаче са навсякъде, и Слим започва да разбира, че самостоятелните му и доста рисковани убийства не са решение на проблема, а и не го отвеждат към корена на загадката откъде са се появили, какво представляват и къде е слабото им място.
Слим намира съюзници, но не може да бъде сигурен в нищо около себе си.Издателство "Изток-Запад"﻿http://knigolandia.info/book-review/o...
His books usually keep me turning pages, but this book took me over a year to finish.
I wasn't too fond of Slim calling the genetically altered war weapons as "goblins" and that's one of the many reasons I couldn't take this book seriously.
DK sometimes gets carried away with his descriptions, but this time he took it too far.
It took him far, far too long to get to the point and I lost interest several times.
The only reason I didn't give up on it completely is because I have OCD and can't start something without finishing it.
I've read this book so much that the front and back covers have come off and it may be time to buy another copy. It's different because the mosters are goblins posing as humans who want to destroy mankind. I also love the fact that the characters are in a traveling carnival. A part of me would like to live that life for a while and this gives it to me vicariously. lol
This is was a good book, just not my favorite Dean Koontz. The story and characters were good, but at times thought he got to in depth in his descriptions of some underlying stories.
Twilight Eyes - review  When one day ends, the next begins, for in this infinite universe there is no final conclusion to anything, definitely not to hope.Chapter 1 - The Carnival You travel light when you're wanted for murder.
The only heavy things you carry are memories, fear, and loneliness.Chapter 4 - Goblin Dreams  I really enjoyed this book.
But, he can't move things with his mind, heal people, or read minds.
And no one else can see the goblin side when they are disguised as humans.
He finds sanctuary in carnivals and the people there accept him as a drifter.
Carl Stanfeuss is a 17 year old boy on the run, going by the name of Slim MacKenzie because he killed his Uncle Denton with an axe, believing he could see through his Uncle's skin and see inside another evil creature, that he calls goblins.
I may not have been aware of goblins as such, but they can be read as a metaphor for the evil within humanity and its potential for horror, balanced against the courage of people who cannot just stand by and let even unkindness be the dominant force in the world, let alone terror and pain and fear.
Twilight Eyes is not Koontz's best work, but I love it the most of any Koontz book I've read.
The lovely Rya Raines, our leading lady and romantic interest, is full of sexy flair and has a well-crafted three-dimensionality.While I admit that the idea of the book is a bit cliche, the writing is fantastic: the dialogue is witty, tuned to the correct emotion at every point, realistic--a quality that seems less and less alive in more modern literature,--and, quite simply, engaging.
i enjoyed this story, one of my favorites...i enjoyed the shape-changing ability of some of the characters herein.
thought the idea that "he had twilight eyes" a bit hooey, but i managed to overlook that....sorta like one of those outthrust determined chins....or mayhap sharply intelligent blue eyes....arrogant cheekbones.....he has twilight eyes and no, song lyrics and pablo doing bach's aria for the g string accompanied by piano didn't resound through the room....even now i laugh at that one jarring phrase in a story that i enjoy so much....who was it?
