https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30256248-by-your-side
I like milkshakes.• As much as the tragic-bad-boy had no real personality...HE WAS STILL KIND OF CUTE.• It was light and fluffy which, ya know, isn't always a bad thing even if I am more of a stab-the-demons-and-fly-with-the-dragons sort of person.• Autumn has a really supportive and kind family.
The first half was so wailingly awkward and disappointing I NEARLY HOWLED.MY UNFORTUNATE LIST OF DISLIKES:• Okay but we gotta start with the biggest thing: THIS IS NOT ABOUT LIBRARIES OR BOOKWORM APPRECIATION.
Autumn accidentally gets locked in a library...but NOBODY CARES ABOUT THE BOOKS.
A girl and a guy accidentally locked in a library? THE BOOKISH GODS HAVE FINALLY GRANTED OUR WISH. But 2017??? *sobs*
Also, the main character suffers from anxiety attacks and the love interest is more broken than the ones in her other books.Maybe this is why I liked this so much more.
Kasie takes things slow, giving Autumn and Dax a fair chance to find reasons why to fall in love, ones that exclude physical attraction because, as we all know by now, physical attraction is not the main key to a great relationship.
Oh, since we’re at it, I do wish Kasie West’s books were more diverse in terms of the characters' ethnicity and/or sexual orientation and even maybe have more culture inside them, because that’s something that’s really missing and culture is such an important part of our world.
*ARC received from Indigo Books and Music for review, thank you to them!*I loved this! I identified so strongly with the protagonist and found the whole story to be more than just your typical romance.
Edit 25/08 : Great come-back of the HEADLESS COUPLE on Kasie West's covers!
I just decided that it was a SIGN and that P.S. I Like You (that I didn't like that much) was only a mistake because you know, And as you know, Superstition and generalization = True fact that I can spam endlessly because I just know itIsn't it how our world works lately?!
**You might notice that I didn't include The Fill-In Boyfriend.
It didn't suit my superstition, SO.
___________________________So this book pictures two people trapped in a LIBRARY for DAYS and comes out FOR MY BIRTHDAY?
It's easy and quick to read, but doesn't feel just like fluff/brain candy.
The whole book is building up to the romance, which is good, I liked the tension that resulted.
It kept me reading.
However, I felt everything just wrapped up in a few pages and I just wanted the resolution to happen a little sooner or that the book was longer.
I know the book was more about how the characters got to the ending point and not the end point itself, but I just wanted the ending to have a little more to it.
“ I was not one of those girls who needed to fix broken boys.”This was a really satisfying book.
The female MC was smart, acted reasonably, even though she was technically ‘popular’ in school, she didn’t let it get to her head and so she wasn’t mean or stuck up or oblivious to the ppl around her.
Now, Dax. He was quiet and reserved but caring and sweet...
The story plot, with Autumn and Dax being locked in a library for 3 days (that’d actually be my dream come true, lol), I thought it was gonna be a bit bleh and uninteresting...
This was adorable. I was expecting a fun fluffy romance, which this delivered, but it also largely featured discussions around anxiety and self care. The romance was so cute. The quickest way to get me to ship two characters is to trap them in a library together.
Damnnnnn... In my humble opinion, Kasie West is truly the queen of YA contemporary! ♡ I mean, can we talk about how lovely and swoon-able her books are?? ☆〜（ゝ。∂）"By your side" is probably a reader's biggest dream! ☁ Umm hello? Being trapped inside a large library with a hot cutie, why haven't you melted yet?? Okay there's not much food and drink, which sucks, but apart from it, the situation is brilliant :P (to fall head over heels, if you know what I mean *winks*)Alright let's be serious, this
Okay there's not much food and drink, which sucks, but apart from it, the situation is brilliant :P (to fall head over heels, if you know what I mean *winks*)Alright let's be serious, this book also concentrates on the problem of “anxiety, depression, or other mental illnesses” which to me, makes it stand out from other books written by Kasie West, don't ya think?
^^If you are planning on staying home reading books and being cosy with some hot coffee ♨︎ on Valentines Day (like me!), which is pretty near, this one should be given a chance on your go-to shelf!
★"The library brought you together.” Then he looked up like he was reading something written across the air in front of him.
Kasie West + a girl + a boy + a library. I'm pretty sure someone's trying to push me to build a time machine to get to 2017 already!
Here we have a classic case of the Misleading Synopsis™.We’re SUPPOSED to get a who’s who of tropes that act as blatant appeals to the teenage girl demographic: bad boy, forbidden romance, hate-to-love, books, flirty fluffy times, presumably a flat female character so said teenage-girl stereotype can project herself into the story like she has some sort of middle-grade series superpower.
Then they boringly get out of the library - LIKE A QUARTER OF THE WAY INTO THE BOOK.And Autumn’s old crush is back in the picture and into her all of the sudden, which makes no sense, but whatever, who cares, that’s not the worst offense, because GUYS - we get a love triangle.YES.
Kasie West just does ya contemporary romance so well.
But if I’m honest, that’s only part of the story here and maybe only the first third of this book happens in the actual library and it truly might not be what you are hoping for in that regard.
However, that’s where West introduces us to Autumn and Dax and shares some of their secrets and why they are who they are… the characters being cut off from everyone else in the story allows us to really get to know them on a very personal level and we learn things about them both that are very important.
3.5 stars!    “Books, bringing people together.' That would make a good slogan for the library.”  By Your Side is the second book I've read by Kasie West, and although I didn't love it quite as much as the first, it was still an enjoyable read. Our story starts with Autumn, a teenage girl who is supposed to be going to a cabin with her friends for the weekend, but somehow manages to get herself locked inside a library for the weekend. For a lot of us, this would be a dream come true, but Autumn
By Your Side is the second book I've read by Kasie West, and although I didn't love it quite as much as the first, it was still an enjoyable read.
Our story starts with Autumn, a teenage girl who is supposed to be going to a cabin with her friends for the weekend, but somehow manages to get herself locked inside a library for the weekend.
They learn a lot about each other being locked together in that library.
Dax is back to his life, and Autumn is back to her family and friends.
I liked this book and give it 3.5 stars.
2.5 StarsI'm not a huge fan of YA contemporary anymore-- i've found lately that I feel like i'm reading the same book over and over-- but i'm reading a really dark book at the moment and needed something light as a reprieve from it.
There was nothing new or never done before, some of the technical aspects of this story didn't make sense, and the relationship between the two characters wasn't cute or awe-inspiring enough to let me overlook those things.
I think it's important to note that this book is honestly just a 3-star, average book for me, not horrible but not great, just something light to read to lighten my mood.
Kasie West is an auto-buy for me, so I downloaded this book after screaming when I saw it.
I went in only knowing that the MCs were locked in a library.I love love loved Autumn and Dax. They're so different and so similar and I loved reading them together.
I also really loved Autumn's family.
I love that they were open and listened to her.
And the banter between Autumn and her brother Owen was some of the best.This was a lot angstier than other Kasie books and I wasn't expecting that.
YES QUEEN, GIMME SOME CUTE LIBRARY ROMANCE.
Autumn needed to be locked in the library so none of her friends notices she's not there even though, in spite of the (view spoiler)[car accident (hide spoiler)], they should have noticed that soon; since the drama level was still too low, Autumn needed to see Jeff when he was (view spoiler)[in hospital (hide spoiler)], so of course his mother lets her in passing her off as a cousin simply because his son had used to talk about her, all while ridiculously fussing over her for no apparent reason and calling her his son's girlfriend even though she's not because again, remember, we need more embarrassing and cringe-worthy drama.
It's mentioned that she's on medication and she sometimes, when under pressure or scared, has trouble breathing, but it's not like that's sufficient to show what dealing with an anxiety disorder mean.
I mean, seriously, who wants to write a negative review about one of their favorite writers, one of those authors who never ceases to make you happy and put a smile on your face.
I loved them, to an extent, but every time I thought we were really getting somewhere with them, it was pulled back in-Kind of like the sun on a cloudy day, as a kid.
After the library debacle, I truly figured we'd get so much more out of our leading man, but instead, the plot took an odd turn with our main character, Autumn.
Autumn and Dax are locked in a library over a long weekend (but could have been literally anywhere because they didn't care about the books.
The first 40% of the book is them establishing that Autumn is rich & has lots of friends, while Dax is a cliche loner bad boy with a rep he doesn't deserve because he's in foster care and went to juvie for good reasons etc.
So the remaining portion of the story is how Autumn is torn between the guy she likes who's in a coma and the unsociable Dax (because they apparently bonded with in the library).
In the end this feels more like a character study than a full story.
Witty and romantic, this paperback original from a fan favorite is perfect for fans of Stephanie Perkins and Morgan Matson.When Autumn Collins finds herself accidentally locked in the library for an entire weekend, she doesn’t think things could get any worse.
While she's in the library, she has panic attacks, and she tells Dax. Autumn really cares about what others think of her, which is why she hasn't told any of her friends about her condition.
Half of the book is spent in the library with just Dax and Autumn, and the other half is spent in the "after".
I like the characters, though I could've used more development on everyone and anyone beyond the main character.This book also features a main character with anxiety disorder and a love interest who is in foster care.
I don't have anxiety disorder or anything close to it, but I read a few reviews that said it didn't totally ring true.
One thing I did love regarding the anxiety aspect of this book is how supportive Autumn's family was and how they always saw her feelings as valid and helped her take the steps necessary to recover.
Kasie West had been one of my favourite contemporary authors since forever! But lately something has changed.I don’t know if it’s her writing style that has changed or if it’s simply that I have ‘outgrown’ her books, but lately they’re missing the mark for me. ;-;  My problems with this book:  - confused why they’re bored and resorted to watching TV WHILE THEY’RE LITERALLY LOCKED IN A LIBRARY - LOVE TRIANGLE - The MC, this Autumn girl was so immature - Dax is a wannabe bad boy, not fooling me -

Not for me.
I mean I couldn't stop thinking about the ways they could have escaped, but I guess they both needed it.
I also had issues with Autumn's friends who conveniently forgot her and went to party without her.Sadly, I felt like “By Your Side” wasn't as strong as her previous books, but here's hoping a re-read will change that.RATING 3/5QUOTES“Someone told me when you go to college, your life gets better.
Realities are final.”“Why can't I just control my mind better?”“You mean you can't control how they'll react.
Any Kasie West book is hard to resist but throw in the setting and plot line for her latest, and for any book lover, it is downright impossible to say no to, which is why I didn't even think twice about getting it.
Her latest book just reinforced for me why that statement is true.I was expecting a fun light read filled with a heart stopping romance, with lovable, adorable characters and once again, West delivered.
Filled with tough issues, real life problems and so much more, West delivered in every way with her latest YA contemporary.
(I received an advance copy of this book for free. Thanks to HarperCollins and Edelweiss.)  “Who else would be dumb enough to get trapped in a library?”  This was a YA contemporary romance, featuring a couple trapped in a library.I liked Autumn in this, and I could totally relate to her anxiety disorder and the panic attacks that she suffered from. Dax was also really cute.The storyline in this was about Autumn and Dax getting trapped in a library together for a weekend, and slowly getting to kn
This was a YA contemporary romance, featuring a couple trapped in a library.I liked Autumn in this, and I could totally relate to her anxiety disorder and the panic attacks that she suffered from.
Dax was also really cute.The storyline in this was about Autumn and Dax getting trapped in a library together for a weekend, and slowly getting to know each other.
I liked how the story moved on from being trapped in the library though, and we got to find out what happened to the pair of them afterwards.
I preordered this book and found time to read it.
I enjoyed this story, but she's given us better.
Like a teen afternoon special on TV.I have to get one thing off my chest, I have worked in libraries for 13 years, we do extensive checks before closing the building AND it is a violation of safety codes no to have an emergency exit in a building.
So the whole getting stuck in the library thing I had to really bust out the suspension of disbelief.
(Yes I understand it was all for the story, but it was too much for me).
Overall I liked this book. I will admit that this is not my favorite Kasie West book. I really enjoyed our main character Autumn and the romance was cute but the plot wasn't my favorite. Would recommend it, it is a cute book but not my favorite contemporary read.
But I wound up liking righteously-bad-boy Dax quite a bit, and he was a much better character than the collective mess that were Autumn's friends.
You see, Autumn's friends are the reason she spends an entire weekend locked in an under-heated library with barely enough food to eat and no tampons (no, that didn't come up in the book, but, I mean, I'm just sayin'), because they drive off and leave her there.
The only one of her friends who seemed like a decent human being was Jeff, her almost-boyfriend who spends most of the book in a coma.
