https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/410296.Twilight_Sleep
Mrs.Pauline Manford a leader in what is left of high society, apparently in her mid forties has a busy life with a full schedule of appointments, activities and latest causes she generously donates to , her perfect secretary Miss Bruss keeps a tight checklist and the affluent lady can afford to be generous.
Clearly Mrs.Wharton was a great writer, The Age of Innocence , The House of Mirth, Ethan Frome and I am sure numerous others, nonetheless every writer has failures , ask Shakespeare, well a little late now.
Now in a nutshell, a very light read for a classic.
But overall it was a fun read.
I also learned about "Twilight Sleep" which I googled and discovered it was a method used on women giving birth way back when (quite horrifying really!) Of course it has another meaning in this book which I thought was how most of the characters got through their day-to-day life, never really seeing (or perhaps choosing not to see) what was going on right under their noses.This will be a fun discussion for my live book club meeting in early December.
Mrs Manford is the matriarch; a perfectionist who is involved in the social happenings, obsessed with the occult as a solution to her moral conundrums, and whose opinions are eclectic and self-opposing.A lot of the humor of this book is meant to come from Mrs Manford's nerves; yet it falls short.
The book is written as if it were for him you are meant to have sympathy, since he is not morally culpable and only does it because his wife is "cold".As for the couple's children, Nona is meant to be introspective, clever and respect-worthy.
Just started this book- interesting- more "Jazz Age" focused than we think of when we think Edith Wharton.
hm.The thing is, there's a reason that we associate Edith Wharton with American Victorianism more than Modernism (which is actually the time period in which she wrote)- why we associate her with Henry James more than, oh, I don't know, TS Elliot, or F.
Wharton is WAY more comfortable in an American Victorian setting in her novels than she is writing in her actual contemporary Modern time.
Pauline Manford is a superlative New York hostess and do-gooder, organizing her causes and her social events with equal efficiency and panache, while taking care of herself by going to a series of self-help gurus.
Her daughter-in-law Lita is a child of the Jazz Age, though, and her boredom with her marriage affects all of Pauline's family, until everything might come crashing down on them.Compared to Wharton's earlier, greater novels, this is overplotted and undercharacterized; I often felt as though the plot was driving the characterization, rather than developing out of it.
I did enjoy the lampooning of the self-help culture Pauline is addicted to, and the flashes of sly humor, but I wish the characters had been deeper and more sympathetic.
Well.....I read this book for a book club.
It was a long, dull, and tedious task to finish this for me.
It is never a good thing when you have checked how many pages you have left to read after chapter 2....and this book is not short!
My edition had 374 pages...if you are counting.To be fair...it seemed in a similar vein to Ethan Frome.
It captures the dialogue and thinking of a particular time well.
If you like Edith Wharton you might enjoy this book.
If you have not enjoyed her work in the past, I would pass on this particular work.
This book was so good. Deliciously nighttime soap opera-esque but with sophisticated, complex characters. I'd forgotten how much I love Edith Wharton's work. Although there were almost too many characters to juggle, I didn't want there to be an end to this book.

Wharton was a huge fan of Anita Loos' Gentlemen Prefer Blondes, and she borrowed some of its tactics here, targeting modern fads for emotional and physical self-improvement and recognizing a fickleness and hollowness in those superficial panaceas for spiritual ennui.
Indeed, she's most sympathetic with characters whose suffering signals that they are out of sync with this current--alcoholic former husband Arthur Wyant who searches for a way to express nobility in a world where those values are out of date and sardonic daughter Nona whose name suggests the increasingly nihilism and renunciation of her worldview.
Wharton's use of "twilight sleep" (a kind of partial anesthesia given to women to help in childbirth; the woman remained conscious, but in a dreamlike state) as a metaphor for the moral failings (and afflictions) of the characters in the novel is ingenious.
Where Wharton's best work is often leisurely plotted, allowing both reader and characters to reflect on the implications and effects of a character's state of mind or their actual or intended course of action, _Twilight Sleep_ has far too many characters doing far too many things in the service of the plot to allow for the kind of deep, searching meditation on mores and morals that Wharton excelled at.
And in this case, a satire of pretty people with pretty problems.Pauline is the typical over-scheduled, constantly in search of happiness and enlightenment society matron.
Nona is Pauline's daughter by her second husband Dexter.
Her first husband, Arthur (affectionately called Exhibit A by the whole family), is the genteel and shabby alcoholic father of her son, Jim. Jim is married to Lita, a choice slightly beneath him, who has become a bored party girl.This is a master class on how to write a book without a single likable character that is still entertaining and wonderful (take a lesson, Flaubert).
I suppose I would have to read some other books of Wharton's to be able to decide.I think one of the reasons for my impatience might be that I misread or misinterpreted the cover summary...I was under the impression that the characters were going to discover some actual drug that was going to liven up their lives/numb their blinding boredom and put them in the titular "twilight sleep".
Doh.Then there was the slogging through the inane reasonings of the mother Pauline and her incessant activities, and hearing about the teeth-grindingly maddening exploits and attitudes of the sister-in-law Lita...these characters were so unpleasant, it made me not want to pick up the book again every time I put it down (which were numerous).
Edith Wharton wrote three ‘jazz age’ novels; Glimpses of the Moon, (1922) The Children (1928) and this one.
I thought Glimpses of the Moon was readable but as a Wharton novel a bit frothy and insubstantial, but I really rather liked The Children.
For me Twilight Sleep falls somewhere between the two, not just chronologically, it has far more substance than Glimpses of the Moon.
What Twilight Sleep does give us is a slightly satirical examination of the fatuous, empty lives of the young (and not so young) wealthy inhabitants of 1920s New York society.
Matriarch Pauline Manford is signed up for every committee there is and practices every Jazz Age New Age fad that comes along.
Just imagine what a tizzy she would have been in if The Oprah had been around in the Twenties.All these activities help Pauline conveniently not notice her husband's indecent obsession with their daughter-in-law.
well, I don't guess he's in love with anyone.After a dramatic confrontation my ebook abruptly ends so I hope that's how the book is supposed to end or else I'm going to feel gypped.The point of the story is.............I'm giving it three stars because for some odd reason I found myself liking Pauline.
A rather dated novel from the Jazz Age people running around having affairs, seeking spiritual "treatment", and spending like there's no tomorrow....wait that sounds like something from the last five years.
Wharton's female characters are spunky but the younger women are rendered through distasteful elderly eyes and with a certain amount of regret.
Her matronly character Pauline is spot on though and the scenes of her negotiating with husband, children, servants really bring out Wharton's subtle satire.
Too bad the men in the story come across as dolts or lechers.
Anyone interested in early Modernist writers who were actually Victorian should check this novel out.
This is an older book by an author that was popular decades ago and is now sort of coming back into favor. Given to me during my Egypt trip by Steve, one of my shipmates. If you can get through the language, it's not half bad--witty but in a very subtle way. Definitely one of those that you actually have to pay attention to every word though instead of just kind of skimming lazily through it.
Well, slightly biased, because Edith Wharton is my all-time favorite author, so basically anytime I find something of hers to read I'm giddy with joy and delight. The story rings true in every way, our society is still mad about consumerism, health fads and quackery, and outdoing the Jones. Kind of what got us into this mess that is 2009.
Twilight sleep,an often neglected Wharton novel,takes place during the Jazz Age in America and offers a sampling of every 1920s fad: psychoanalysis,New Age spiritualism,self-help books,consumer science,drugs,plastic surgery,and eugenics...“from the treatment of the mentally deficient to the elucidation of the profoundest religious mysteries.”
Wer sich bei diesem Buch einen spannenden Roman um eine wohlhabende Familie mit Intrigen und/oder womöglich sogar Verbrechen verspricht, wird aller Wahrscheinlichkeit nach ziemlich enttäuscht werden.
Nichtsdestotrotz kurz zum Inhalt: Pauline Manford, das (weibliche) Oberhaupt einer reichen Familie New Yorks der Zwanziger, hat einen Terminplan wie eine Vorstandsvorsitzende eines weltumspannenden Unternehmens.
Jim aus erster Ehe genoß das Leben wie es kam bis er Lita heiratete, eine exzentrische Künstlerin (?), der er völlig verfiel, sodass er sogar einen Bürojob annahm, um dem Bild eines anständigen Ehemannes zu genügen (was jedoch eher im Sinne Paulines als Litas war).
At one point, overwhelmed by her hectic schedule (it's not easy to save the world), she starts to deliver her Birth Control speech at a Fruitful Motherhood conference, but catches herself in time to save the day.Alas, neither the Cardinals and Mahatmas of the novel nor Pauline's own family members are convinced, let alone controlled, by her monumental efforts for unity and uplift.
Pauline's executive social role itself reflects this loss, as her weak ex-husband fruitlessly urges another male character to "be a man." For Wharton, American optimism and efficiency are no match for the forces of social decay.
Like Newland Archer from The Age of Innocence, she seems to feel on a gut level that people should be free to follow their own inclinations, especially when it comes to romantic love, but she keeps returning to the question of how it can be possible to pursue that path without trampling on the needs and feelings of others.
When her characters are good, like Ethan Frome or Ellen Olenska or Nona Manford, you want to shake them out of their seemingly compulsive need for self-sacrifice.
But it feels like an achievement just to have identified the question.The book loses one star for me because the ending doesn't work.
I have to wonder if Tom Wolfe had this book in mind when he wrote The Bonfire of the Vanities.
Wolfe's send up of New York's elite in the 1980s has nothing on Wharton's treatment of them during the 1920s.
There are two types of people in the book, those who know how shallow they are and those who don't have a clue.
Wharton's writing is as magnificent as always.
That said, a lot of people aren't going to be interested in this book because of it's time period and it's writing style.
It's not pleasant, but at the same time it is true to the period.
Long and dull, Wharton's novel approaches but never engages the moral issues of the day: promiscuity, divorce, alcoholism, an aimless, superficial generation, an infatuation with expensive quacks and fakes, and more.
The characters are lacking, each a one-dimensional figures that exaggerate the issues of the day.
We spend far too much time inside the mind of Pauline, one of the lead female characters.
Like nearly everyone in the novel, she has too much time and too much money.
Her time she plots down to the quarter hour, or else she is at a loss what to do with herself.
I think I would have actually preferred a film version starring Myrna Loy. Also, for the record, this is the second book now that I've read because I thought it involved drug use (which is one of my research interests) but doesn't; "Twilight Sleep" does refer to the drug cocktail they used to give women in labor (apparently this had a eugenic intention, which is something I plan to look into!), but there's no description of that, and the title seems primarily to be a metaphor about how we're living our lives in a stupor, removed from really feelings and attachments.
WhartonI love Modernist novels because of the importance the authors placed on its stories.
Their characters told of a dull-aching, harrowing disenchantment that seemed to fill their lives when religion, family institutions, old traditions failed.
This novel centers around a surprisingly Modern family who are wonderfully secretive and dysfunctional.
Matriarch Pauline is wonderfully contradictory and elitist, but maintains a mission to save the world from her New York estate.
The plot has its crescendo at the end of a "relaxing family vacation" at Pauline's country home, where no one will be the same.
difficult to read at times...'tedious' i guess, but never wanted to put the book away, just a little more work than some books, very wordy--- it definitely brings you into the atmosphere the novel creates.
the entire book is a lot of fuss over nothing and then when something does happen, its so horrible it cant even be acknowledged.
i like edith wharton, she is funny.
looking into her world (which is so different from mine, but scarily similar in a lot of ways too) is almost like a little joke, like she is stepping outside her high society and ribbing with you.
it is funny, but also very sad.
I don't know how I managed to graduate college with something like 60 credit hours in English, never having read Edith Wharton.
She's been my most wonderful post-school literary discovery.
This book is amazing.
It's so different from some of her other works I've read but consistent in its brilliance.
Every Edith Wharton book I've read speaks to me deeply, but each in a very different way from the others.
This one tells the story of a "modern" family, but not in that strange, cold, outdated sense of modernity that so many books of its era seem fixated upon.
I've always been an Edith Wharton fan but had never heard of this book until I came upon it by accident. Now that I've read it I'm really glad I bought it and actually think it's one of Wharton's best novels. Wonderfully written, the book is so incredibly modern it sometimes gives the reader the impression it was written only a few years ago. As usual, Edith Wharton proves to be an astute (and fierce!) observer of human nature and I love the way she dissects her characters to reveal their deepest motivations. A fantastic read.
Slow starting, but picks up the pace towards the end of part two. Twilight Sleep seems a somewhat satirical look at the Jazz Age, sadly that could also apply to the here and now. I do not think I am a huge fan of satire, but it was very difficult to feel anything but annoyance towards pretty much all of the characters. For me, that made it a somewhat difficult read and will not make me run to another book from Edith Wharton.
More "modern" than any Wharton novels I've read. This is a rather light-hearted commentary featuring the Flappers and the Old Guard of 1920's New York City society. It seems that much has stayed the same, in so far as the fickleness of who makes the "A-list. The current fads and the "Ins" and "Outs" of New York's society then and still now seem to be at the mercy of some whimsical, invisible force of style.
