https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/219535.The_Other
”Twins? With different birthdays? How unusual. Indeed for identical twins, very. Oh yes, there were the mixed signs, on the cusp, as one says--they should have been more alike; nevertheless, the difference. Holland a Pisces, fish-slippery, now one thing, now another. Niles an Aries, a ram blithely butting at obstacles. Growing side by side, but somehow not together. Strange. Time and again Holland would retreat, Niles pursue, Holland withdraw again, reticent, taciturn, a snail in its shell.” The
It brought back memories of Kansas storms from when I was a kid that used to appear on the horizon as black, boiling, menacing, living creatures that would swoop down on us like wraiths hurling hailstones, battering us with rain, and making us shiver with deep booming thunder that would rattle glass and bone.
Holland has a blue-black dot on his ring finger that will prove to be an interesting clue in the novel’s plot.
I too have a blue black graphite dot on my wrist.
A sampling of Doc Savage coversSo you may be able to tell that this book worked on many levels for me.
This year I was determined to read it and boy am I glad did!!Holland and Niles are twin boys growing up during the thirties.
The boys, while directly affected by these sad occurrences often cope by playing a game with their grandmother in which they pretend to be animals or even plants or flowers, literally transferring themselves onto these objects with their minds and imaginations.
Remember, this book was published in 1972- and without any prior knowledge of the contents or context of the story, I literally gasped out loud on a couple of occasions, and physically experienced goosebumps!
I know I've been told it is one of those novels that spawned a bunch of lookalikes during the seventies, but rather than being a simple bestseller that everyone and their little fat dog emulated, I personally think that it has a ton of depth and staying power.I think it's a toss up whether the best feature is the narrator's voice or whether it's in the plot twists.
You can guess that things go downhill, of course, and with every new revelation, it becomes increasingly more interesting until it pretty much blew me away.
If you plan on reading this novel prepare to plow through the first 90% without much enthusiasm. But beware, this novel is like a deadly spider that is slowly lowering itself down from the ceiling toward the back of your neck. By the time you notice it, it's too late, and the scariest part, (other than the fact that it's just bitten you), is that it has been hanging there ALL ALONG, and you had no idea.
Actually, the second half of this book is great, but still not great enough to resurrect the full work to anywhere beyond its three-star label of mediocrity.Often with mystery novels there is a slow but steady build of intensity, a momentum that gathers in a such a way that the reader remains riveted to the end.
In fact, I’d say that the plot drive in the second half was so well executed that it overcame what I would otherwise have to describe as naïve, whimsical writing.
I'll likely expand this review someday, but for now I'll just say that this is one of those books that truly deserves the status of "horror classic." Tryon's prose has a way of keeping the reader at arm's length.
I don't mean that in a bad way at all because Tryon is a fantastic writer.
I mean that he keeps us just far enough outside the mysteries of his story for their reveals to be as stunning as any in horror fiction.
As far as great twists go, I'd say The Other is one of the twistiest, most surprising novels I've ever read.
Deliciously horrifying and thoroughly entertaining short read.
Tryon was good at painting scenes with vivid descriptions and setting atmospheres with his words.
The story took place in summer at a small town, and I could almost feel the humid, pressing heat, the distant screams of children, the grass tickling my thighs.
I love the sense of foreboding in the background that pervades the main story, it creeps up on you and slams home rather quickly at the end with one reveal after another.
Although I knew the premise of the book and sensed that something just didn't feel right from the beginning, I did not see the big reveal coming.
Of course, I look back now and can see all the clues nicely sprinkled throughout and wonder why I didn't put two-and-two together sooner.
And then with ~30% of the book remaining after the big reveal, I wondered at how much was there left to keep me interested in the book.
Oh, there was plenty remaining to give me the heebie jeebies!
The shivers just kept coming and coming right to the very end.
I first made my acquaintance with THE OTHER 42 years ago, and have just finished my 3rd or 4th re-read.
If you're looking for King/Koontz-style horror, you'd best look elsewhere, as THE OTHER harks back instead to Ray Bradbury, Shirley Jackson and even Henry James.
Although there is "horror" here, it is merely one element in an exquisite, evocative tale.
To read this book is to be transported to a small Connecticut town in the '30s.
Calling THE OTHER a classic horror novel is far too limiting.
It is nothing less than a classic of American Literature, and one of my Favorite Books of All Time.
Considering new shelf name for books like this: "Migraine-Inducing Literature"
An incredible psychlogical thriller with brilliant twists and turns. Superb character development, and some scary supernatural qualities make THE OTHER a true classic. Haunting, and highly recommended.
Holy Sh*t! I didn't know anything about this book when I picked it up from a secondhand bookstore. This is easily one of the best books I have ever read. It is so shocking and insanely scary. I recommend going into this not know anything about the story and I'm sure it will leave you as shocked as I was. HIGHLY recommended!
3.5 while this one was certainly predictable now a days, I don't think it would've been for the time it was published. I did enjoy the story, the journey and the reveal of who is narrating the story to us and I certainly liked it more then Lady. However, I just don't think Thomas Tryon is right for me.
this book is awesome
Thomas Tryon is an author to reckon with! A must read for anyone who loves horror. I Cannot recommend this enough. This story was so finely crafted, it had me questioning every written page. Its a tale of twin boys who hold gruesome secrets and a very loving and likeable aunt who has a secret herself. Its mostly sad, but beautifully written. I love this story and look forward to reading more of his work.
The Other was 20th century mass-market horror at its best; it was suspenseful, eerie, disturbing and incredibly well-written.
Page 196 contains the novel’s “you must read this” twist, which has been worn smooth to modern eyes by a million M.
Without the twist to blow our minds, modern readers can submerge themselves in the prose and, despite being self-consciously literary, it’s worth the submersion.Tryon was an actor who had tried to become a movie producer, but his treatment for a movie about evil twins called The Other wasn’t getting any traction so he borrowed money from his family, locked himself away for 18 months and turned it into a novel.
I just finished this novel, and wow, I'm still trying to process how surprised I am that this gem of a horror story isn't more popular.
In the afterword of the edition I read, Dan Chaon discusses how this book, along with others like Rosemary's Baby and The Exorcist, were some of the first to start the immense popularity of horror novels in the 1970's.
!!!!(will write up something tmrw)
This is the best book I have read this year.
Now--it must--stop.No more game?No. No more game.” Yes, the game went way to far, Ada. And you're to blame for all that happened in the small Connecticut town, Pequod Landing, that summer.
Two Identical twins, but oh so different."”Twins?
The 1972 movie screenplay was also written by Tryon and is faithful to the novel.
(I did after reading the novel.) Horror is something I normally don't gravitate toward (I have to be in the mood), and I really didn't expect a horror novel to end up on my all time Favorites Shelf!
I love Ada. In a weird way, I blame Dead Poet's Society (one of my favorite films from way back) for my hate of saxophones, but it's hard to explain and has no place in this review.Anyway.I scroll down at all these reviews that are made without spoilers and all I can think is how?I can say this: The writing is gorgeous and mesmerizing.
The twists...well...I read it as a writer without meaning to, because of the gorgeous writing, which means I foresaw much.It was wrought with rich, rich symbolism.
I gave up after four pages. I was confused....

This took me far too long to get through, I swear I'm a much faster reader than this.. Even though the "secret" is fairly easy to figure out, I found that once the true identity of 'the Other' is confirmed for the reader is when the story actually picks up and becomes more intense. That's how it played out for me, at least. On a side note, this is the second book written by an actor that I've read recently.. praise for people being multifaceted.. or overzealous about their many talents..
Personally, I don't get it. This was supposed to be a great book, one of the classics of horror literature. I'll vote it to be one of the boring books of horror literature. I couldn't finish it. I got halfway and had to dump it. Long prose, no atmosphere, little suspense. Read it if you like but I wouldn't recommend it.
Tryon's The Other and Harvest Home are two high-water-marks of twentieth century horror before Stephen King and after Psycho. Highly recommended... perfect reading for a cool, dark night!
Had I known then what I know now, I wouldn't have searched for it so laboriously.The novel, which was written in the early '70s and concerns a pair of twins born on different days with different astrological signs, is built entirely around a mid-point plot twist.
And since this twist has been done to death in the past forty-plus years, none of what happens is all that hard to see coming.
Basically, the reader is forced to sift through pages and pages of obsessive, flowery description to get to a plot development they already see coming.It's a shame, as I was really hoping to discover a new favorite here.

I loved the book! This is an amazingly sick book! At the beginning, it seems nothing is happening but you have to read carefully because there are clues from the very first page. I saw the 1972 movie first and knew the "twist" / secret all along. By mid of the book, I had already discovered all the "clues", so if you pay attention, it is somehow clear what was going on.In any case, I doubt that anybody can see ALL the little details. Even though I saw the movie, I was surprised by the ending of the book.
