https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/732241.Cherry_Ames_Army_Nurse
I really enjoyed this story. Old YA books are easy to read and fun.
Any time they had Nancy Drew hardbacks I snatched them up.
I was never able to fill in the series.
I would have loved to read the others, but they are books, much like Nancy Drew, that can be read on their own as well.
It was a video talking about the lack of books about women/girls for kids.
This series right here is one of the reasons that puzzled me.
I read plenty of good books about females growing up, these included.
This is definitely a book that I would encourage my kids to read, especially for the history aspect.
I love all the travel and adventure associated with Cherry becoming an Army nurse.
It's interesting to view this from a historical perspective, too, as it's clear that a partial aim of these books was to serve as a recruiting tool for wartime nurses.
I'm still reeling at the fact that "Diesel oil spray" was used to stop malaria breeding grounds (by killing the mosquitoes).
The fact that Dr. Joe has another top-secret breaking new medicine is getting a bit old.
At least Cherry seems like she can handle him.
I'm looking forward to following up by revisiting Cherry's further adventures in the Pacific.
I read this series as a child (in the 1960s and 70s) and I seem to remember that Cherry solved mysteries along with doing her nursing, but so far have re-read the first three and none really has a mystery in the traditional sense. (view spoiler)[ This one does have a plot point about a patient with a tropical disease and Cherry helps figure out where he caught it, but that struck me more as part of the medical experience rather than an actual mystery. (hide spoiler)]
I would definitely not recommend handling this series to a youngster of today unless they have a strong interest in historical research.
For myself, I was pleasantly surprised to find that a book I haven’t read for at least 50 years is actually not too bad.
It captures a lot of the flavor of the war years, though it’s rife with stereotypes.
You could use this book to play a game of cliche and stereotype bingo very easily.
I was a bit disappointed that this wasn’t a particular book I remembered fr Cherry’s days as an armful nurse.
I bought these to read while I am reading When Books Went To War. These are fast and fun and not memorable. Except they are if you consider how little there was to entertain then and how much we needed the optimism and lively can do spirit of Cherry Ames. Cute cover art.
This is the best book so far in this series! Lots of adventure, and I think it was really smart that Helen Wells included the haunted house part! Definitely would recommend!
Reread for 2017 Reading Challenge 'a book you read as a child'.
Meh too much Rex. Where is Ned Nickerson when you need him! 😉
Sweet, sweet series.
The big thing with Cherry Ames is the focus is on Cherry's career, who she meets along the way, her adventures while learning and performing her duties and how the base characters play into it, not on the mystery.
Here's my review for theYahoo group, which includes some thoughts on Army Nurse:First of all, the mystery is secondary in these books, so if you read other series mostly for the mystery, Cherry Ames may not be for you.
It’s a slice of life from the time.Another thing I liked is the series explores so many different paths one can take in a nursing career.
Having been a nurse in the Air Force. It was entertaining to see how things were done in the past.
Cherry Ames and her entire class from Spencer Nursing School are excited at becoming Army nurses. But there is additional training required, before they can take up their assignment. They must learn much of the same lessons the soldiers learn in basic training, as well as additional nursing techniques for the field. They meet new colleagues — some pleasant, others not — and have many new experiences. And of course, Cherry stumbles into trouble along with the requisite mystery. Interesting and enjoyable, if somewhat dated.
Cherry happily enjoyed the time that she’d spent with all of her fellow nurses and they anxiously awaited the day they would leave to the next phase of their lives, helping the soldiers they cared so much about.
Hoping to still make it through training and a location assignment with her fellow nurses Cherry has to choose between her duty to the people that need her and the orders she is given by the Army.
This is a pretty good book that definitely has its own chords of humor to it, especially since it was written in the 1970’s and people acted and treated each other a lot differently.
It was interesting to see Cherry and her friends move on to a different setting and participate as a reader in their excitement and apprehension about being shipped out to God-knows-where.
I guess since the Chinese nurse wasn't mentioned as much in this book, the author needed a new ethnic character to be small and cute.Lex also got better as a character in this book, but we finish off with his question to Cherry still unanswered.
Being sure of what Cherry's answer will be, I don't know if I'll continue reading the series.
This book really wasn't my cup of tea.
Middle schoolers MIGHT like this kind of book, especially if they have family in the military.
This book could be used in a middle school class to talk about history and war.
Obviously this book took place on a military base.
I think this book could be helpful in talking about anything military related.
This book could even be used to talk about what makes a good story and what makes a bad story.
The student could dissect the book and talk about what could be different to make it more interesting and appealing.
That is Cherry Ames in a nutshell.
There were no conflicts through the entire first half of the novel.
Cherry Ames is her name, and being the center of attention is her game.
This book defines the stereotype of a 1940's woman, which I can understand due to it's date of publication (1944).
If you're looking for a mellow, feel good book, pick up a Cherry Ames book at your nearest library.
Warning: This book was so cheerful and optimistic that I found myself being pessimistic and negative just to pull things into a balance.
I wasn't sure what to think about the reissue of the Cherry Ames series.
I loved the books when I was in elementary school and read all of them I could find.
It's 1942 and Cherry Ames has just graduated from nursing school.
Cherry, with her classmates, has joined the Army Medical Corps.
There the hospital is overrun with wounded from WW II and hospital staff are run off their feet tending the injured soldiers; at the same time, Cherry finds an transient Central American Indian who is clearly sick with what is probably a rare form of malaria.
I read this as my pre-1960s book.
It was pretty cringe worthy.
However, it wasn't quite as bad as I had anticipated, and I could see my 11 or 12 year old self eating this up.
Cherry Ames is independent and hard working, and I think that young pre-teen girls would find this relatable and even inspiring.
I probably wouldn't teach this in my own classroom, but I do think there are a couple of important elements in this book.
It teaches the importance of being kind, reaching out to others, and stepping back to take a look at the bigger picture and see what's really important.
This book is from 1943 and is, of course, somewhat influenced by the war.
Cherry is a young girl who wants to become a nurse and this book tells about her first experiences.
It goes into how she makes friends, what types of things she is expected to do, and various problems that arise for her.
It also tells how she had gotten interested in nursing.She has a lot of work to do and, at times, gets reprimanded.
She misses her family, of course.
The book is one which is obviously meant to influence girls to get into nursing.

This was a good fluff book.
It was an interesting time period book.
I feel bad for the women of the 1940s.
That is one thing I did not like about this book.
But I did like how silly and kind of ditzy Cherry Ames was.This book has the very stereotypical woman in it.
So if you are a feminist nazi you shouldn't read this book because then you'll just get upset.
But it was a good book.
It does not have anything bad in it at all.
I would recommend this book to anyone, mostly women because it's not manly enough for men.
I read this book because I was required to read a book written before 1960 for a class. I enjoyed this book and its historical setting. I would recommend this book to anyone interested in old timey adventure books. I would also recommend this book to people who are interested in army books from a women's perspective. I'm not in education, but I could use this book to teach middle school students about the value of hard work. I could also use this book to teach them about the importance of doing the right thing no matter what. WarningsViolence: 3/5
Cherry Ames is so optimistic it's almost scary. With exclamations like "Oh Gosh!, Jiminey! and Oh me Oh my!" You are bound to burst out into a fit of laughter. I can see why so many young girls where inspired to become nurses after reading this book. It's so light hearted and it fills you with the desire to go help somebody, well at least for the time period. Cherry Ames Army Nurse is definitely unlike any Young Adult book today.Warning: Super Cheesy Recommended for ages 10+ Rated G
Oh Cherry, how I love your formulaic (is that spelled correctly?) life! So I'm becoming able to predict exactly what will happen before the book's end... so what, ritual is comforting. The best part of this volume is some of the cheezy dialogue. I'm going to continue with my Cherry adventures but I don't feel the need to own every single one. Interlibrary loan will suit me just fine for the rest of our scarlet-cheeked nurse's adventures.
I acquired a vintage copy of this book from my aunt. I am nurse who loves her job. I appreciated the idealism of nursing presented in this book, while laughing at the obvious plug to get young women to become nurses. Even though the mystery wasn't very mysterious, I very much enjoyed this book. I even ordered the next one in the series, and look forward to reading my aunt's copy of Cherry Ames: Flight Nurse.
I bought this book for 10 cents at a White Elephant sale when I was 10 years old.
I'd never heard of a White Elephant before!
I adored going to pick through all the junk (it was treasure to me).
I had so much fun I never forgot that day.
Oh, to have it to do all over again & to choose to go into nursing like Cherry Ames.
She always wants to Do The Right Thing.
I love the old series books from the 1930s & 1940s & do NOT like the updated versions.
I read the version of this book from 1944.
This is just as well written as those preceding it, but I found the banter and relations between characters to be far more interesting than the plot itself, which was broken up with a lot of travelling. Oh, let's jump on another train and go to another place entirely! Forget about continuity! Certainly, it's realistic, but there's little to hold together any semblance of a plot...it would almost read better as a journal of Cherry's various experiences as an army nurse.
This book had an interesting storyline but I felt that Wells lacked some in her writing abilities. While this book is fun and can be entertaining, I believe that Wells could have incorporated more moral into the story rather then just resolving the conflicts within the last five pages of the novel. I felt that there was no depth to the novel even though the spunky attitudes and cheerful narration kept me reading. By the end, I was intrigued, but not necessarily satisfied.
Ah, Cherry Ames, you are charming, as always. I enjoy these books, for the look back on the era and the way women were treated. Cherry is a fun character, and the books are enjoyable. This one I found particularly interesting, as it was written and takes place during the war in 1944. It's pure war propaganda, which I found really interesting.
