https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60076.Lucia_Rising
Delightful read for all fans of pleasant social satire. This volume, which contains 3 titles - Queen Lucia, Miss Mapp and Lucia in London – along with it’s companion volume is a bargain to own for all those fans of the witty, malicious comedy which happens between Lucia and her archrival Ms Mapp.
I've read and re-read the Mapp and Lucia books for 40 years.
They were so used to seeing me read them that when I met my daughter in Rye at the beginning of a 6 week trip through Europe, she arranged with the local Benson expert to give us a walking tour of 'Mapp and Lucia's Tilling' - even though it was off season and we were the only ones on the tour.
Benson describes Tilling so well that when I finally got to Rye for the first time, I knew every street and lookout.
If you live in Riseholme, England, you are a minion of Lucia (pronounced the Italian way), the Queen of Art and Culture.
In the first story in this edition, Queen Lucia, Lucia's reign is suddenly threatened by the arrival of an opera diva who, of course not understanding the dear inhabitants of Riseholme and their tastes, institutes free-for-all "play" evenings, plays music on the grammaphone and threatens Lucia's dominance in every way.
Miss Mapp is around 40 and has her eye on the Major who lives just across the street.
I keep this book by my bed always.
I've read it multiple times, and I feel like I know the characters as well as I know my neighbors.
This volume contains Books 1-3 of the "Lucia" Stories.
One of the FUNNIEST books I've ever read, certainly.
It relates the tales of Lucia, a self-important, pretentious middle-aged poseur who strives to be the queen bee of her little village, Riseholme.
Everyone else in the village is totally onto her, but she lives with rose-colored glasses on and is convinced that everyone adores her.After you read this, read "Lucia Victrix" where Lucia meets a nemesis who's up to playing her dastardly games of oneupmanship, Miss Elizabeth Mapp.
Simply a delight of satire and fun. Who could not find the Lucia and Mapp books a joy to read and re-read? For once the TV adaptation was close to the books and the first from the BBC was by far the best with Geraldine McEwen and Prunella Scales as the protagonists.
Hilarious!
A wonderful portrayal of small-town snobbery in the 1920s.
Refined and lady-like, Lucia will nevertheless go to any lengths to assert her supremacy over her rivals - and no trick is too underhand for her (including stealing everyone else's good ideas!).
Yet, despite her affectations and devious tricks, she enlivens her community.
She's the sort of person you miss when she's not there, although her presence can be highly irritating to all.
A wonderful read.
Although written some time ago, you can still recognise the character types.Added information: the town called Tilling that appears in later books is actually Rye in Sussex.
The older I get, the more convinced I am that humor is a completely neglected genre. Not enough people celebrate the ridiculous. Lucia and all the people of Riseholme and Tilling are ridiculous in the extreme, and Lucia's feud with Olga is better than Elizabeth Bennett and Katherine deBourgh.
It's a shame E.F. Benson only wrote 6 Lucia books! Good thing they are all available in 2 yummy volumes! Lucia and her archrival Ms Mapp are hands down two of the funniest, most malicious enemies to ever see print. Multiple rereadings of this book have not made it any less funny!
Deliciously satirical and entertaining observations of the human condition!
An almost unbearable pleasure.
I enjoyed these 3 novels so much I'm actually putting off getting the next volume because I don't want to finish them too quickly! Absolutely wonderful.
Witty, cheeky, very British. Hurrah!
Utterly divine and not at all tarsome.
I feel this should count as 3 towards my Reading Challenge since it's an omnibus edition!
This volume contains 3 novels:- Queen Lucia: An extremely funny story about a self-proclaimed leader of Riseholme's social life, Lucia.
Although she claims to have many talents, among which speaking Italian, playing the piano etc., she has in fact none.
And sometimes this shows, leading to hilarious scenes as when she was asked to translate for a visiting Italian composer.
****- Miss Mapp: I disagree with Keith Carabine who wrote the introduction to the volume: I find 'Miss Mapp', while different in concept, even better than 'Queen Lucia'.
I thought it might be more of the same as 'Queen Lucia' but the story is subtly different and had me roaring with laughter again.
I did really like it but it left an unpleasant feeling, these Mapp and Lucia bitches are malicious, horrible people.
Although the humour caused by their desire to be superior to everyone else was amusing, especially when they would get their comeuppance as they constantly did, still it was a little TOO nasty and spiteful for me to smile fondly at their foibles, if you can really call them that.
Great fun but I do not feel the need to read Volume 2.
How strange to rate a book four stars but to realise you don't want to read any more like it!
If you have a bent for social satire, read every Lucia book you can find IMMEDIATELY. It is set in Victorian England, but could be the SF, the East Village, or more likely freaking Marin. I always have a bad time in Marin, but I bet there are modern day matrons running around scheming - no, scratch that, they are in Santa Barbara, land of self improvement and pebble colored carpet.
I've read two of the three novels in this volume, and enjoyed them well enough, mainly. The agressively trivial proceedings can start to pall, and the comic energy can start to flag, especially as they drag to their conclusions. But there's plenty of good fun to be had, even if it isn't long before I start wanting to move on to something a little more substantial.
Vol.1 - Queen Lucia, Miss Mapp, & Lucia in London. Mapp is a very different character from Lucia: the latter's social pretensions bring a wry smile; the former's quite a nasty piece of work (wouldn't want her in my social circle)- though she always gets her come-uppance. Queen Lucia probably the most amusing. Shall I acquire Vol.2? Probably not..
It was slow going at first, but I love the comedy of errors and how simultaneously genteel and backbiting they were. I would read more!EDIT - If you like "Keeping up Appearances" it's along the same vein. Less slapstick, more bite!
Slow starting. Didn't like the characters at first. Thought the cultural snobbery was laid on too thick. Then the characters started to grow on me. But the back and forth one-upmanship just grew tedious. Finished it but don't think I will read anymore in the series.
Love these books by E.F. Benson! The characters are so conniving and funny - the gaps between their social manners and what's really on their mind are what makes this an entertaining treasure. Enjoy, enjoy, enjoy!
Stacey, thanks so much for recommending this. I have just read the trilogy and thoroughly enjoyed them. In particular I liked the Lucia books as she is such an amusing and fascinating character. HAve you read any of the others?
Satirical portraits of society in provincial England in the 1920s. Just love the characters--Lucia and Miss Mapp, of course, but also Georgie and Olga and Diva. Very diverting following them around and "listening in". E.F. Benson is brilliant!
Actually, gave up partway through Miss Mapp - getting a bit samey
Great period piece. A slow read but just loved the characters.
hilarious ... and characters so true to life today after 80 years !
LOVED IT!
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/11358861
the recent (2015) t.v series spoilt this for me
