https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7987.The_Legend_of_Luke
Wonderful story as always with all Brian Jacques's books.
Would the plot be focused more on Luke the Warrior or his son Martin, who has become a legend to fans of the Redwall series all around the globe?
The tone of Luke's adventures carries the same bittersweet style and spirit as the first few odysseys that Brian Jacques put down on paper, leading us on an impossible to forget journey into a world of surprising new characters and dark, unexpected plot twists, a fantasy world that never delves so far into the surreal as to dull the emotional impact of its sharply poignant moments.
Somehow, I managed not to review this when I read it, but it was highly fine and of excellent quality and all that.
What I loved about this book is that the beginning is in the present then in the past. It really unearths some of the characters' personalities. It also helps understand how Martin feels.
The Legend of Luke is one book in the series A Tale from Redwall, in which all the characters are animals, with their own quirks, dialects, and interests.
In this particular book, Martin the Warrior, a mouse of great renown and one of the founders of Redwall, searches for clues to the fate of his father, Luke, a great warrior of his own time.
The books are cute, and would be best read a chapter at a time as a bedtime story to small children.
If you’re looking for something different, give one of the Tales of Redwall a try.

I was given this book as a gift, and while grateful - because of the special place in my heart for Jacques and his tales, I was too busy reading "more important" pieces.
And while it might seem like a good way to end the Redwall chapter of my life, I now have a daughter and I hope that I will have many more chapters with her in the years to come.While there may be other books which are "more important", I have learned that books like Jacques' are a good cement to fill the cracks.
The wonderous thing about reading Brian Jacques' writing is that it is so enchanting, you always want to return to it, in particular Redwall Abbey.
Yes I have the audiobooks and I love how they have been dramatised, but reading the words created by Jacques is something altogether special.This book gives the final piece of background to the one character who appears in nearly all of the Redwall books, Martin the Warrior.
The story is in toxicating and although you know that there cannot be a completely happy ending, Jacques' writes it in a way that makes you still think there is a chance complete happiness will be found.
This is a great book and I...um....eh....used to own it, but I gave it to my sister along with 9 other books in exchange of her really nice hardcover box set of Lord of the Rings.
This was a really good Redwall book.
I like the ones that have Martin in them, because he is not just a warrior who fights and stands for good and has no personal issues, like a lot of the other protagonists.
He has a history, and it comes back to him.
He wants to know what happened to his father, he wants to know where he came from.
He is a very dynamic character.
The writing is great as always, very descriptive, especially the feast scenes.
A really good action tale as well, with plenty of humor throughout as well.
4.5
"The Legand of Luke" by Brian Jacques is is a story about a mouse Named Martain, who is like a person in this series, looking for his father.
Martain was aware that Trimp admired the sword as if it were holy and could do no evil.
Martain was kind, " Karar isn't gone, Chugg, he's watching over us, even though we can't see him..." ( Jacques 60)  "The Legand of Luke" by Brian Jacques was not my favorite book in the "Redwall" series.
I did not enjoy " The Legand of Luke" by Brian Jacques.
Spoilers luke dies.
Sam Bequette1st period11/06/17The Legend of Luke, a fantasy novel by Brian Jacques, is a classic tale of heroism. The book opens in a place called, Mossflower Country, where woodland creatures are in the process of creating a giant abbey for all to live. The main protagonist, Martin, is helping to construct the abbey when suddenly, for no apparent reason, he is hit with a wave of questions and longing for the home he had to leave when he was just a small child. With his faithful friend, Gnoff an
They encounter many dangers on the way, until they reach the destination and hear the legend of Martin’s father, Luke the Legend.
I liked this book a lot because the author did a really good job describing the setting in the book.
Another reason why I liked this book was the way the author kept you engaged.
There was never really a boring point in the story, because just when you had had enough of the setting, something exciting happened.
That way, the author always kept the reader engaged.Although I did like this book, sometimes the story would get to predictable.
It's the most beautiful of forests and adventures are high stakes but not really.
This time we travel to the north to learn the origins of Martin's father Luke.
I do feel that there was enough time for us to get to know Martin's group but we switch to Luke's tale in the bulk of the middle so the love for the Martin group could have been better.
Characters: Magical.
The new characters fun but also fall safely into the Redwall mold.
An adventure that fits snugly into the rest of Redwall.
Martin, Gonff and Dinny Foremole along with other familiar friends like Ferdy & Coggs (all grown up), Abbess Germaine, Bella and Skipper lead the reader on a new adventure.
Trimp along with Martin and his two best friends, Gonff and Dinny decide to leave Redwall and their loved ones--who are in the process of finishing Redwall Abbey construction--to find out more about Martin and his long lost father, Luke.
As with all of Jacques' novels, the journey is filled with adventure, new friends, battles and mysteries.
The writing, story, and character are all done with great quality. The story start with Martin wanting to know what happen to his father Luke. We get to know how Martin feels. The journey at the beginning felt a little long. Some of the characters they meet do appear in the other books before and afore this book.Luke's story brings a satisfied conclusion as to what happen. At the end, Martin has find contentment.
I love the Redwall books. Somehow, Brian Jacques takes warrior mice, goofy but gallant hares, rustic hedghogs and other creatures, combines them with adventures and terrific descriptions of food, and creates compelling stories. I'm not always a fan of anthropomorphized animals, but I find the Redwall series to be very enjoyable.
I loved this book. I've reread it a dozen times, it contains humour, sadness, excitement, battles and adventure. I was sad to finish this the first time as I was really enjoying the book and anxious to see how it ended, however I will keep rereading this book and keep an eye out for more of the Redwall books
Oh man, this one was good. I loved delving into the lore of Martin the Warrior's family, seeing his ancestors' past. There were a lot of unique ideas in this one, and I remember enjoying it so much I couldn't put it down.
My favourite Redwall book by far. What an enthralling and encompassing story and so many memorable characters! A story I'll think of fondly for a long time to come and happily rereard when I get the chance to! Thank you Mr. Jacques for your wonderful work.
My favorite in my favorite childhood series.
This book was okay.
a traveler who stops at the abbey sings a song about martins father. his curiosity aroused, martin sets of to learn the true story behind his fathers death.
In short, as I am reading through the Redwall books in published order, "The Legend Of Luke" is the best of the series so far.
I loved being able to revisit Martin and finally dig deeper into his past and his lineage to learn more about the character.
At this point I am comfortable wrapping up the character of Martin, although I wish "The Legend Of Luke" occurred earlier in the series, as there are some connections and references to "Redwall" and other prequels that were somewhat lost on me without using internet searches.
My stars are completely unfair here. It only got 2 stars because it made me sad. I cannot abide sadness, even if sadness is happy for deep people.
The ultimate sacrifice done by Martin the Warrior's father, Luke. At least there is some closure as to what happened to Luke, as Martin has been thinking about his father for a long time.
SO GOOD!!!!!
This is my favorite of all the Redwall books. Anyone who says that this series is just for kids needs to read this story.
Especially if you have read the previous Redwall tales containing Martin, you are dieing to know what his father was like.
With each twist and plot, from the two hilled island where Luke is almost killed, to his final moments of crashing the Gorleech into the two giant rocks near what used to be his tribe's happy home, you are amazed at the quick thinking and courage it took to do the actions that Luke did.One thing that is so loveable about this book is that all the characters are creatures of variety.
