https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/334643.Abhorsen
“Confused Dead Hands staggered out of her way, gobbling their distress from their decayed throats.” Nix has created such an incredible magic system; with both Charter Magic - the fixed and governed magic but also Free Magic - the powerful and uncontrolled magic often used for evil.
We even get to visit death - with its nine gates and mysterious allure.A power known as The Destroyer is rising, to destroy the Charter and create a world of fire where the dead rule.
Sam was pretty angsty, too, and the book felt entirely like exposition with no real pay off at the end (with a long ways to go).
Plenty of my favorite action heroines (be it movies or books) have to inevitably come up against some douche who refuses to answer to a girl of all things (or remember that awesome scene in RotK when Eowyn’s like, “I am no man!
If magic has existed in a world since the beginning of time, than freaking equal rights should have as well.Anywho, all-in-all, a fantastic book.
Abhorsen is a great conclusion to a narrative arc which started with Lirael, the second book in the series.
The two main characters introduced in the previous book, Lirael and Prince Sameth, have now accepted their respective legacies and fate in what is to become a fight for the survival of the very world itself.
The narrative around these fantastical elements progressed through the series with more revelations on the lore surrounding the history of Charter magic, and deeper exploration through Death and its Nine Gates.
I do recommend this series to those who want to read a classic fantasy with a difference.This review can also be found at Booknest
It is the third book in the Old Kingdom series (following Sabriel and Lirael).تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و دوم ماه اکتبر سال 2009 میلادیعنوان: ابهورسن - کتاب سوم از سه گانه ی گارت نیکس با عنوان: پادشاهی کهن؛ نویسنده: گارت نیکس؛ مترجم: پریا آریا (پریا تجلی پور)؛ تهران، وسعت، 1387، در 400 ص، شابک: 9786005142167؛ مترجم: شهلا انتظاریان؛ تهران، افق، 1391، در 456 ص، شابک: 9789643698270؛ مترجم: پیمان اسماعیلیان؛ تهران، قدیانی، 1393، در 560 ص، شابک: 9789645369758؛در کتاب‌های پیشین سابریل و لیرایل خواندیم که قلمروی پادشاهی کهن ابهورسن‌ها درگیر نزاعی همیشگی و پایان‌ناپذیر با ساحران جادوی آزاد است.
Probably my favourite of the series so far! I adore these characters (especially the Disreputable Dog)!
RtcWouldn't be better if I had read previous books
[3.5 Stars]I liked the ending, but I've decided I'm not the biggest fan of Garth Nix's writing style.
Having just finished this, the final book in the Abhorsen Trilogy, I have to say that it RANKS AMONG THE BEST YA FANTASY SERIES I have ever read.
Add to that one of the most interesting and original magic systems I have yet come across featuring among other things, free magic (wild and unbound) and charter magic (bound magic expressed through runes or marks), Abhorsens vs necromancers, lesser and greater dead, gore crows, the Great Charters and some amazingly unique free magic creatures and entities.
This will certainly me on the short list of YA fantasy series that I recommend to friends.
Audio #56So far this is looking like the best of the three! I think it’s because I’m getting g a lot of Tim Curry’s Moggat voice
Only the Abhorsen (Sabriel) or the Abhorsen-in-waiting (Lirael) can pass from life into the river of Death, through the eight Gates of fog, whirlpools, waterfalls, and shadow, and do magical combat with the necromancers in their own dark realm...Well, the Disreputable Dog can splash into Death, too and in "Abhorsen" you'll find out who she really is, along with Mogget the bad-tempered cat (who reminds me of some of the grouchier Jack Lemon characters)."Abhorsen" is a worthy conclusion to Nix's Old Kingdom trilogy.
So everything I held against Book Two, Lirael, was released in Abhorsen. The book races, literally and figuratively - I read it in a day. The climax is beautiful, BEAUTIFUL, with all the characters you love and hate from all three books playing their part with some powerful punches. It also drags torturously through some characters' descents into madness which is, well, maddeningly written, curse Nix and his talent. I adored this trilogy and wish people would stop resisting me forcing it upon them just because, you know, it's about necromancers and bells. Please! It's awesome.
This has become one of my favorite series of all time.
I honestly just found this anti-climatic. Especially when compared to the first two.The conclusion just continues on for the spin off books; which I do understand.Sam’s growth in this was wonderful; I hated him in the second book but in this one I really rooted for him.I am interested in reading Goldenhand to find out what happens to Lirael and Nicolas I just felt that this book and the previous one could have been shortened down to one big book instead of being dragged out over two when some of the plot and description was unnecessary.
So now that I'm done with the trilogy I'll say that it was Great.
I read the last book so fast, I think I read it in two days?
Maybe three.
Anyways, the climax is good (and not painfully predictable like book 2) and the characters are developed so well by the end that I was just sucked in.
My face even scrunched up at the end when one character...
you know.
It always happens to someone.
The fact that I even thought about crying is quite a feat for an author, since I pride myself on stoicism when it comes to things like books and movies.So if you like fantasy books with maps and journeys and prophecies and magic and WOO necromancers!
Sam, relieved he no longer has to deal directly with Death, embraces his destiny as a royal Wallmaker – his hobby of inventing and his powerful skill as a Charter Mage really pays off.Although this book is a little higher on action than Lirael, I actually forgot how much of it involves travelling and discovering and planning and then action.
The action really ramps up in the final third to lead to what I think is possibly my most favourite climax in any book I’ve ever read.Lirael has really come a very long way from being the shy Sightless Second Assistant Librarian locked away in the Clayr’s Glacier – now she’s a tough warrior who slays the dead, who walks into Death itself to save the world.
I think probably the best way to describe what it's like to read the Abhorsen trilogy is to compare it to a snowball rolling down a very, very large hill.
Abhorsen is like this, but also THE SNOWBALL IS ON FIRE.Sabriel introduced the world, the characters (most of them), the magic system, and the stakes.
Lirael upped the ante, widening the scope of the world, but also deepening it, and ended with the characters facing the biggest challenge of their lives so far.
And the rest of the book is like a giant rollercoaster ride of emotion and action and scary stuff trying to kill you.But also, remember the snowball?
What a stunning conclusion to an amazing trilogy. The scope of the conclusion - which covers the foundation of the Charter - was incredible and tied up several loose ends. I can't wait to read more about Lirael and Nicholas.
I must confess, before I started them I could barely recall them at all, aside from a few episodes from the first book, Sabriel.
Although it was much shorter, and barely had any plot or character development, it read like a short story and was enjoyable.
Garth Nix's other series, like the The Keys to the Kingdom are more Young Adult orientated and are far better, probably because he had a bit of practise beforehand.To me, the Abhorsen Trilogy, unlike quite a few other children's books, are written very much with children in mind and I wouldn't consider calling them Young Adult.
The Old Kingdom exists thanks to an ancient binding contract that depends on three bloodlines.
And there's an awful lot of people getting killed in this story, more or less in the background, while the descendants of these three bloodlines get the important stuff done.
Quite a few of them have names, and a couple are main characters, but there's this strong sense that all the real, important people of this story are the ones with the bloodlines, and the rest are there so that someone can die to demonstrate how dark and desperate the battle is.
i'm a mess
This was a very satisfying end to an excellent series. I have really enjoyed the author's world building which includes charter magic, travels into Death,the Wall and much more. There have also been some tremendous characters, Mogget and the Disreputable Dog being two of my personal favourites. There was plenty of action in this last book and I was very happy to see Sabriel and Touchstone returning at last to share in the final outcome. This is a series I would happily recommend to anyone who likes fantasy.
Garth Nix hat noch einmal alles aus der Welt herausgeholt, was ging und es war wieder so ein unglaubliches Lesevergnügen!Ich weiß wieder, wie ich mich damals gefühlt habe, als ich das Buch zum ersten Mal beendet habe. Aber! Jetzt sitze ich einfach nur da und grinse freudig erregt, weil ich mehr weiß als vor 15 Jahren und ich nicht mehr auf nächste Bände hoffen muss: Ich weiß, dass es sie gibt!
28/1/2016This was a pretty damned great ending to the trilogy.
Lirael goes through so much character development in the course of this book, becoming more confident in her powers as Remembrancer and Abhorsen-in-Waiting.
Basically, Sabriel is still my favourite book of the series, but this one's still pretty damned fun.
While there have been forays into Death in both of the previous books, this gives us the most thorough journey to date, with Lirael travelling deep into Death to use her birthright as a Remembrancer to find out how to defeat the ultimate enemy.
Just this once, Rose, everybody lives!2) The Dog. I just sat here with tears rolling down my face.
yawn!) but so satisfying and well-executed that I have absolutely no shadow of a complaint.3) Mogget did the right thing in the end!
Thank goodness.
Women are assigned as guards to the king and queen, as soldiers, as saviors, and literally *no one* pauses for an instant to remind the reader that these characters are only pretty good "for a girl".
Amazing, deeply satisfying, fantastic.
THANK YOU, GARTH NIX.I'm off to cry more about the Dog. Wonderful, wonderful book and series.
The dramatic purpose of having an apocalpse is for the readers to fear for the end of the fictional world.
However, to accomplish this, the world must first be shown to have people living in it, people who it would be tragic to lose before the end of their time.
Apart from the aforementioned main characters, Sabriel and Touchstone, the reader doesn't know any other substantial characters from this world.
No one who has something that would make the reader particularly care if they died before their time.
The entire plot crumbles in on itself, because their is no real reason to care if this world of theirs ends.
Also a good read, and different enough from the first to keep me interested.
I liked reading about the Clayr, and the angstiness of the characters really drew me in and made me care more about them.
Honestly, by the end of it, I was just begging for a giant meteor to come and destroy the world, just for a little excitement.
If you're like me, you probably won't be able to resist reading this book to the end, because you can't just abandon a series mid-read.
It was quite a thing to see Lirael and Sam adjust comfortably into their new positions (they grow up so fast sniff).
Sure they were scared, and underprepared, with occasional doubts, but I loved the feeling of rightness that came with their roles in the quest to defeat Orannis.The switch between characters was done pretty smoothly, and with all the traveling that was going on for most of the book I'm still kinda surprised everyone arrived in time.
And I would LOVE to read more of Sam and Lirael!
This book is fast-paced, entertaining and filled with action and suspense. I enjoyed it less than Lirael and Sabriel, because its focus in less on self-searching than these two. I'm not fan of military or necromancy, but, although this book is filled with solders and dead, I enjoyed it nonetheless.
Having told us how legendary Sabriel and Touchstone have become over the 14 years preceding that book we proceed with a slow, wandering, at times stultifyingly dull book about Lireal (and her angst at not getting the sight) and the companion she FINALLY meets after LONG anticipation (I mena we all knew it was going to happen) Sam (and his angst at being the Abhorsen in waiting).
I saw the good parts I enjoyed it "a bit" but I just didn't care all that much and was sort of relieved it was over.A second reason it's not quite a four star book?
The fate of the entire kingdom is in their hands and with Sabriel and Touchstone across the wall in Ancelstierre Lirael and Sam only have the Disreputable Dog and Mogget to help them.The world building in this series is phenomenal, I love the river of death with the various gates and the way that necromancers are able to use the seven different bells to control spirits and move make them move through the gates.
