https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/383514.Her_Royal_Spyness
Let's say one of your friends sets you up on a blind date with a guy you know nothing about.
You get to the restaurant, you find your blind date, and he's not bad to look at.
Your date asks for the cheapest, blandest-looking food on the menu.
He also tells you that he has drafted a couple of friends who move in the same circles to keep an eye out for his boss and report any suspicious behaviour.
You finally get to the end of the evening, pay the tab, and walk out heaving a sigh of relief, when he tells you hesitantly that he would like to see you again.
I am not a total cosy fan but this book starts the series with a very clever premise.
Set in the 1930s in the UK, Georgie is 34th in line to the throne.
There is not a lot of spying going on in this book despite the title.
The Queen does send Georgie to a weekend house party to spy on her son and Wallis Simpson, but that part is very small.
Most of the book revolves around a dead body in a bath and repeated attacks on Georgie's life.
Oh good, a new shelf: "Vaginal-Mystery"!
Bored of the corsets, there are only so many virgins to read about who get pregnant in the Epilogue, you know?This is the start of a new fetish: Lady mysteries.
It was mainly the main character that made it engaging, Georgie is 34th in line to the throne, so it was an interesting new angle, her being poor and very well bred and funny.
I had a lot of fun, the characters were great EXCEPT the love interest for some reason!
The mystery wasn't particularly deep but it was a fun ride.
»Our young heroine Georgie has a slightly stupid and rather self-absorbed brother of fine noble title (Duke of Atholt and Rannoch), a greedy and stingy sister-in-law, and a big Royal family that sets the limits of what is possible and not possible for a young 22 year old lady without income or wealth.
Poor Georgie who just learned a lot of "unnecessary stuff" as etiquette, talking fine French and to behave in a noble lady's way, don't even know how to make fire and heat from the stoves.
Book 3 of my recent audiobook listening binge!
Other books in the series may be heavier on the mystery but this one was more focused on setting up the characters and social situations.
Georgie really even didn't do the spying the Queen requested of her either, so maybe that continues across more books.
I didn't care so much, it was fun as it was, but those looking for a serious mystery may be disappointed.This is probably a good series for audiobook fans who have exhausted Gail Carriger.
Thirty fourth in line for the British throne and daughter of a Scottish Duke and an English actress, she has failed to find a suitable husband during her coming out season and is bored of lingering like an unwanted guest in the family estate, cold and draughty Castle Rannoch in the wilds of Scotland.
As the blurb on the book cover will tell you Georgie's life becomes complicated by a body turning up in her bathtub and she must set out to solve the mystery of how he got there.
An excellent read! It was a fun story and I liked the descriptions of things from that time period. I felt like I was there in 1930s London. The characters were likeable too, especially Georgie. A very resourceful girl with nine lives :) This story reminded me of Agatha Christie's Tommy and Tuppence stories, even though those take place a decade earlier than this one.I am looking forward to starting the next in the series. This is a wonderful escape read and I enjoyed every minute of it.
a light read. mystery was way too easy. i guessed it right away at the first hint. london in 1932. i liked that i got to read about royals. Georgina's character was smart, easygoing and fun to read. I really liked the author's writing style. i was hoping for a laugh out loud read. though it was highly entertaining with amusing lines. i didn't find it that funny.
It’s cozy in the way only the British royal family can be.
At its center, penniless Lady Georgiana, 34th in line to the throne, is looking to strike out on her own, and earn a living—an unheard of endeavor for someone with royal blood in the 1930s.
I look forward to reading the next book in the series.
If you like historical “cozy” mystery books like this one, might I recommend the Phryne Fisher series by Kerry Greenwood?
That is also an awesome series set in 1920s Australia, and I find that it’s even better when you listen to the audio editions.
I could not put this book down!
Her Royal Spyness is the first book in Rhys Bowen's Royal Spyness series and I definitely plan to continue reading the series.Even though I'm a big fan of Bowen's other two mystery series, Evan Evans and Molly Murphy, I hesitated to read this one since I'm not a big fan of books featuring aristocrats.
Selah convinced me to give the first book a try when she set me straight about Georgie's heritage.
Lady Victoria Georgiana Charlotte Eugenie's royal heritage is from her father and her mother is an actress whose father is a retired Cockney policeman.
Cute book. I figured out who did it pretty early. It's kind of funny how they had so many cans of beans left at the London home. Also wouldn't the Queen know that she needs a little cash to survive? 3-1/2 out of 5 stars.
Well that was a fast listen, it was "such fun"! Loved the English take and the mystery which was an easy enough mystery. I look forward to the next in the series once I've had a break.
From the fascinating historical settings and whimsical humour to the cast of characters, this first installment of Rhys Bowen's new Royal Spyness series delivered a great deal of fun.Lady Georgiana Rannoch of the extremely long name is 34th in line to the English throne, but is unfortunately dirt poor, unmarried and entirely reliant on her spineless older brother Binky and odious sister-in-law, Fig. When she realizes she's set to marry Prince Siegfried, Georgie decides that she'll do the unthinkable (for a lady of her class) instead - she'll work to support herself!
And so she decides to work as a maid (horrors!).
When a blackmailing Frenchman winds up dead in her bathtub with her brother as the prime suspect, Georgiana decides to use her newfound freedom as an incognito maid to root out the real killer.
Her Royal Spyness is a light, fairly enjoyable (if predictable) read that's heavy on chick lit elements and short on a solid, well-developed mystery.
However, the story falters a bit by being a little too much of a modern chick-lit novel and not enough of a solid historical mystery.
The novel's concept is cute and original - here's hoping sequels build on this foundation and deliver more solid mysteries.
Badly written by another English authoress living in the USA.
On a bandwagon.Some fun, a not bad, if obvious, denouement.If you want to read it, skim-read it quickly and it will be fairly enjoyable.Badly paced, weak stereotypical characters, full of anachronistic words and phrases, and behaviours."London 1932.
She bolted from Scotland -- and engagement to Fishface (Prince Stiegfriend) -- for London, where she has:a) built a fire in the hearth b) fallen for an absolutely unsuitable Irish peerc) made a few quid housekeeping incognita, andd) been summoned by the Queen to spy on her playboy sonWhen an arrogant Frenchman trying to swipe her family estate winds up dead in her bathtub, how can she clear her very long family name?"
To avoid this dreaded future, Georgie escapes to London where things go from bad to worse after she discovers the body of an arrogant Frenchman in her bathtub, and her brother, the Duke, is arrested for murder.
Will Georgie be able to discover the real killer before it is too late?A light hearted, charming and amusing cozy mystery that is not to be taken too seriously at all.
While the minor romance is engaging, Georgie's love interest needs work in order to fully fit the role of redeemable rake.
Her accents are spot on and she delivers each and every hilarious line of dialogue with wit and aplomb.
While there are laugh-out-loud moments (mostly early in the book), there are enough detractions that I can't really recommend the book. The heroine is a delight but the mystery is a bit thin (so it's good it didn't really start until about halfway through the book) and some of the character actions are a little too driven by story purposes and authorial manipulation rather than flowing out of character for my taste. Still, it was entertaining enough that I stayed up late to finish it.
I was completely predisposed to like this first in Her Royal Spyness cozy mystery series, and like it I did. It's just what I needed as a break from the more serious books I've been reading lately. Nothing taxing, you'll likely figure out the whodunit pretty early, but so fun to read! Written with wonderful humor, spunky energy and a light touch, with an outstanding audio performance by the great, unfortunately late, Katherine Kellgren. My only disappointment is that the audiobooks are not available from the library!

A Very Light read, a fish-out-of-water murder mystery set in 1930's England. This was an ok, sometimes humorous story that went exactly where it appeared to be going but made up for formula with a bit of jauntiness.A decent airplane read, quickly gotten through and mostly forgettable.
This audio book is laugh-out-loud fun. My husband enjoyed it as much as I did during an eight hour road trip. It isn't exactly a heavy duty mystery, but the narrator, Katherine Kellgren, is fantastic.

***2018 Summer of Spies*** What an absolutely charming beginning to a series! Lady Victoria Georgiana Charlotte Eugenie is a poverty-stricken gentlewoman, 34th in the line of succession to the throne, trying to keep up appearances with little to no income. This author makes the most of the fascination with the Royal family and the deportment of Queen Victoria and her successors. For example:”The sight of one female person slinking across the forecourt on foot would definitely have my esteemed r
For example:”The sight of one female person slinking across the forecourt on foot would definitely have my esteemed relative-by-marriage, Her Royal Majesty and Empress of India, Queen Mary, raise an eyebrow.
Georgie, however, has her own ideas on the suitability of husbands and she may have to dodge some of Queen Mary’s ideas on the subject.
One of those little things that I always enjoy is a good little cozy mystery and this is the definition of a cozy.
I can just feel that Georgie is going to end up being one of the trailblazers for women.
I didn't mind that though because I was having so much fun listening to the story.
I don't think I've listened to any of her work before but I am definitely going to be keeping an eye out for her in the future.
Actually, there's a good chance that I'll move straight to book two in the series from here.
Very cute story. It took a while to get started, and I can see why--Bowen had a lot of things to establish so she could bring them up later, when the actual mystery began. I liked the characters, the mystery was a little light-weight, and I might read some of the others in the series, but in general there wasn't much to this book.
The tone started out fun, and funny: "The moan of the wind through the vast chimneys, coupled with the tartan wallpaper in the loo, had the effect of producing almost instant depression or even insanity"… "dances, parties, and other sporting events"… Unfortunately, I ended up disliking Lady VGCE rather a lot, and not being too fond of Rhys Bowen's writing, either.He evidenced in this book an unhappy tendency to the "In case you were napping before the commercial break" sort of recap, which is intensely irritating in television and much, much worse in books."Hello, my ducks.
The second book must have hooked me because I went right on through the fifth and was left wanting more.This is light, fluffy, and sometimes silly reading but the characters, including the annoying ones (they are meant to be annoying) are entertaining and likable.
There's nothing like an unlikely or out-of-left-field solution to ruin an otherwise entertaining mystery.I also learned things I didn't know and couldn't have guessed: The emergency 999 number was introduced in England ("in the London area") in 1937, and the phrase 'main squeeze' took on its modern connotation in the late 1920s.
Who know!!!Something has to be said about reading one book after another in a series.
This cozy mystery reminded me of Maisie Dobbs... only a little more light-hearted and fun. Katherine Kellgren's narration is excellent!
Actual rating: 3.50
In the end, it just wasn't my cup of tea.Rhys Bowen's opener in the Her Royal Spyness mysteries is narrated by Lady Georgie, thirty-fourth in line for the British throne.
Hampering her fresh start is the queen asking Georgie to spy on the Prince of Wales and Wallis Simpson for her.
To clear her family name, Georgie must investigate and find the real killer.Her Royal Spyness started off funny and sparkling.
It's called Her Royal Spyness (emphasis on spy), and the synopsis promises spying for the queen and a murder mystery.
