https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/78976.A_Twist_in_the_Tale
Reviravolta(s) no ContoLivro de contos de Jeffrey Archer a fazer jus ao título original, ”A Twist in the Tale”, marcado pelas surpresas e reviravoltas narrativas.Na maioria das suas páginas, cumpre, entretém.
Conjuga alguns textos interessantes, como o “Impoluto Ignatius” ,  “Cheque Mate”  ou  “À La Carte “ e um punhado de outros não tão inspirados.Uma leitura agradável, rápida, interessante para conhecer a arte de bem escrever de Archer.”Viu o primeiro comboio e depois o segundo a partirem para Coventry.
Deu conta de que a estação começava a ficar mais escura com as sombras a projectarem-se pelas janelas sobre o público.
De repente, virou-se e afastou-se num passo ainda mais apressado.
It's called the O'Henry twist - where the whole complexion of the story changes in the last paragraph, maybe in the last sentence.
I don't think there would many readers here who is not familiar with that iconic story.Even in the hands of a consummate storyteller such as O'Henry, the device starts to pall after a time - because all said and done, it's a gimmick.
(Robert Bloch is a past master at this - read his stories "The Night Before Christmas" and "Yours Truly, Jack the Ripper" to get genuine shivers.) In this collection, Jeffrey Archer attempts to deal the above-mentioned mega-punch and fails every time, except maybe in a couple of stories.
BLAH. There is no twist and no tale for that matter - atleast none worth the mettle... All the while reading it I had a sense of deja-vu and not because I had read this earlier, but because the stories were so predictable. Couldnt wait to finish this book - and I dont mean it in a good way. For people who are just starting to read books this would suit their liking, but not for seasoned readers or lovers of writing.
Archer says that ten of the dozen stories in this volume are based on true incidents. The tales are quite ordinary, but each has the promised "twist" in the end. Like everything Archer writes, I give the book 4 stars because I can't stop reading whatever he writes. These are the 12 stort stories contained in this volume: SPOILERS Ahead. Consider yourself warned!! 1. A Perfect Murder is the story about a man who has committed the perfect murder. Not only does he stand by seeing another man being
Archer says that ten of the dozen stories in this volume are based on true incidents.
The Steal is the story of a married couple of two teachers who save up all the year round for their vacation.
At the end of the year they visit a new country and bring home a memento of their vacation that they refer to as the "steal".7.
Colonel Bullfrog is the story of unlikely friendship between Japanese soldiers and a British PoW and how the friendship evolves even after the WW2 has ended.8.
The story is told in the last letter the boy wrote his Rabi father before committing suicide.
Two stories stand out - the last, and most poignant, a detailed letter written by a loving son to his rabbi father, describing how he first met and fell in love with his Gentile wife, which manages to catalogue the important landmarks of his life; and a story about a female picking up a man at a pub that is nothing like it seems.
The others seem a little forced, especially the Golf Club one, and even the first in the book, about the 'perfect murder'.
Dear Booklovers,I was just 11 years old when this book was published in 1988. That was more than 25 years ago and Jeffrey Archer was 48 years old.A Twist in the Tale is a collection of 12 short stories with a twist in the end for each story.Jeffrey Archer stated in the book that ten of the short stories are based on known incidents plus some embellishment and only two of the stories are a result of his own imagination.While this book is not his best work I still loved reading each story.
Refreshingly twisted.
Jeffrey Archer is frequently inspired to write short stories based on actual events.
Since most of the books I read are E-Books, my curiosity prompts me to easily Google the situations, the tales and the characters in order to learn --as Paul Harvey famously put it -- "The rest of the story".Archer is a master of 'the twist' ending...without exception, my response after having read each of .his short stories is "I never saw THAT coming!".
In fact, more often than not I feel compelled to immediately re-read them to see if I can learn what I may have missed!Naturally, it is difficult to rate a collection.
I look forward to reading more of Jeffrey Archer's works.
I read this book about 4 years ago, and I wasn't very impressed by a story or two that i read then.
Now, luckily I decided to give it another chance.
It is an example of good story telling ability of Archer.
I loved some stories, the plot and especially the awesome endings.
These are just the kind of stuff I look for in a short story book.
I loved the stories and they kept me amused during the long hours of boredom that I normally experience while traveling to and from my university.
It is a fine book.
Jeffery Archer is a master story teller. The book, A Twist in the Tale, indeed confirms this. Of the twelve stories in the collection, my favorite is "Clean Sweep Ignatius", which tells the tale of the Nigerian finance minister who wanted to test the avowed code of privacy of a Swiss bank before stashing nearly $5 million in cash he embezzled from his country in the bank.
2005 Jan 01Archer is apparently somewhat gullible, and when told a story that happened to a friend of a friend (FOAF) he believes that it is in fact true. But, he does a good job of making urban legends into real stories, so I won't dog him to bad for that.
A fine collection of short stories.Review to follow.
This collection of short stories was unexpectedly a good read for me. I had read Archer few years ago, but not his short stories. But the simple stories in this collection were good, with a twist in the ending(some were easily guessable). My favorite would be Christina Rosenthal, Just Good Friends and A la Carte. Overall an enjoyable read.
My first Jeffrey Archer. Will read more.
Was not expecting short stories, but it was good, didn't like the "steal" but the rest had a good twist.
Downloaded in error as thought it was a stand alone book and not a series of short stories. However i really enjoyed these, all brilliantly written as usual by this amazing author.
It's an amazing collection of stories. Each one of them, as the title describes, has a twist in it. Overall, it's so much fun to read!
Mark harus memilih untuk hidup santai di pabrik ban atau kerja keras menjadi Chef.cerita yang paling menyedihkan (dan bikin airmata menetes) adalah tentang seorang cowok anak pendeta yang naksir cewek imigran yang masih punya garis keturunan bangsawan Jerman.
si cowok yang tidak sanggup harus kembali hidup tanpa pasangan jiwanya kemudian memutuskan untuk bunuh diri.cerita yang paling lucu mengenai pasangan suami istri guru yang tiap tahun berlibur ke luar negeri.
dan hal ini hanya disebabkan karena si orangtua murid menolak tawaran minum dari si pedagang, sedangkan si guru menerimanya karena sudah tahu kalo di Turki acara tawar menawar barang pasti dimulai dengan tawaran minuman!ada juga cerita menarik tentang perdana menteri yang terkenal antikorupsi disalah satu negara di Afrika.
I will admit that there were a couple of stories where the twist eluded me.
While the wealthy couple is demanding all and sundry, the school teacher sees a gorgeous carpet that is just what she is looking for and she measures it and it is the right size and the colors are indicative of its quality.
The wealthy couple finally settled on a very large carpet for $20k pounds.
He writes out a bill for the exact amount of sale.Back in customs, the wealthy couple ask the school teachers if they would bring their carpet through.
I first read 'Kane and Abel' by Jeffrey Archer when I was 13 or so.
And at that time, I thought 'Kane and Abel' was the coolest book I had ever read.
It should also be noted that this book was written in 1988, and so much has changed and happened since then, so in order for a story to have 'twist', it will take much more efforts than this.
For the remaining stories, some of them read like articles in Wikipedia, the writing could not be worse or more painful - it was like Jeffrey Archer just listed out the events happening in the life of a person, which is a greedy thing to do.

This book is a collection of short stories and is a light read.
Archer does manage to keep the reader’s attention and while all the tales are engrossing and interesting some of them are a bit predictable.
Archer is a master story teller as is evident from his many novels and he does spin a good tale.
This book is handy to have around when if you are not in the mood for a long drawn novel yet want to read something short and interesting.
He has other collections of short stories too and all of them are equally engrossing and entertaining.
hard to put a value on something so intricately unusual. this was my first contact with archer's work and i am sold on it. jeffrey archer is a master story teller.a collection of short stories, each one with a twist at the very end, that turns the whole plot around. such a fun and sharp read. one of my all-time favorite short story books.
A really good collection of short stories. Not every story has a twist in the tale, but every story is gripping and moving. I liked them all in general, and Clean Sweep Ignatius, The Steal, and The Wine Taster, in particular. I enjoyed his style of writing. It is my first Jeffrey Archer, and I'm looking forward to reading more books by him.
I just got this out and realized that I'd read it before, so I decided to add it to my list. Archer has a knack for short stories with just that twist......not unlike DuMaupassant. A great book to keep in a bag and make waiting time go fast.
I read this when I was about 10 after getting it free in a packet of cornflakes. It begins with the intriguing premise that all of the stories are true except one or two, and the reader has to guess which ones.
I actually loved this book. The twists in the tales were mostly surprising, and I only figured out a couple of twists before I finished the tales. I think it was witty and intriguing, with gripping suspense at times.
Best short story book I've ever read. The twists are so well written and it's my favourite Archer book of all time.
Wonderfull work by this great writer...
all stories are pot-boilers and have enormous twists
