https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/642952.Japanese_Tales
Things I've learned from reading chinese and japanese folk stories:- Never trust a beautiful young widow, it's probably a fox spirit. - Never go inside dilapidated places, they're probably haunted. - Never spend the night in dilapidated places.- That animal you saved / rescued is probably a god. - Always pay attention to any messages or orders you receive from beings in your dreams. - Always chant the Heart Sutra- A dragon lives in the nearest lake
Yeah so I'm reading 7 books at once, what's the problem?
Robert Darnton wrote in the Great Cat Massacre that if you read a joke from another country and another era and you are not laughing, then you know you need to do more research into that culture.
This book of folktales will bring you right up to ancient Japan.
The stories in it are bizarre, sad, funny, incongruous, inconclusive, and altogether magnificent.
But if you can't laugh at fart jokes, you will not enjoy this book, and you may eventually find that you are in no way equipped to be an anthropologist.
“Stories of miracles, visions of hell, jokes, fables, and legends—these tales reflect the Japanese worldview during a classic period in Japanese civilization.”  Japanese Tales is a marvellous compilation of mythology, folklore, and fables depicting the early cultural, political, and social norms for Japan during the 12th through 14th centuries. I read this alongside a history book for premodern Japan, which made my experience with this title that much more enlightening. Translated by the wonde
Japanese Tales is a marvellous compilation of mythology, folklore, and fables depicting the early cultural, political, and social norms for Japan during the 12th through 14th centuries.
An aspect that I positively adored with Japanese Tales was the co-relation of mythology and fables, and how it influenced societal structures and social practices during the era.
These distinct narratives really brought the ancient and early Japanese societies to life around me, which was already heightened due to that history book I read as a companion.
While the reading can feel a bit murky with the fluctuating stories, Japanese Tales is an intriguing piece of literature for anyone interested in Japanese mythos and fables.
I loved this collection. Definitely read the introduction first--it provides much needed context. These tales are great--many are short, only one to two pages. Some are haunting, others disturbing, some are raunchy, and others romantic, quite a few are funny. You'll find emperors, monks, princesses, foxes and snakes, all kinds of demons, warriors and gods. The scholarship that went into this volume is impressive--there are extensive source notes and the tales are really well organized. As others have noted, you may find more literary/romantic versions of stories elsewhere but probably not more authentic. I thoroughly enjoyed reading this.
Here are two hundred and twenty tales from medieval Japan which are so stunning that this book was re-read several times.
His book of No plays opened my eyes to the beauty of Japanese art, literature and culture 11 years ago, and though I find the late Seidensticker's 1970s translation of Genji more readable and beautiful, I can still recognise Tyler's translation for its great scholarly merits.This anthology collects a wide range of Japanese tales from a period roughly spanning from about the C8 to the C16.
Tyler's introduction is, as you would expect, scholarly and illuminating.The stories in this book demonstrate the enormous range of Japanese literature from the period.
And I think I ran into some of the same issues as I had reading the 'Manyoshu' - namely that these works are just floating in time and space, unattached to anything I can readily pull from - and that's after now 15 books of source material, plus essays, the Lotus Sutra, and having taken a class in Japanese History in college.I'm not taking a class here though, nor do I expect Tyler to have written a text book on pre-tokugawan short fiction or the early buddhist traditions of Japan, but it also doesn't change the fact that these stories can be very hard to access.
But from doing further research I can't continue with this book.I definitely DO want to read more of Japanese culture and their folklore and tales and such.
But from talking to Japanese people and from seeing American/English idioms that wouldn't have been used in Japan I couldn't bring myself to finish this.
Which sucks as it's the only book my library has so I will continue to scour the internet for decent books translated into English.I knew going in that the tales wouldn't be like German fairytales (like most fairytales in Western culture are from) so I didn't expect that (and from what I read I didn't get that) but the collection isn't put together well.
An interesting collection of tales - they are well-written and the variety is interesting.
I was surprised, though, that among the 200, I only recognized one (the old woman who rescues the sparrow).
Suffice to say, these are not about virginal princesses and valiant princes - there's a whole lot more gray and mischief and moral missteps, and that in a way makes them feel more "modern" than some western folk/fairy tales.
I thought this would be like English folk tales, with the lessons and conclusions neatly laid out at the end, some of these stories end in the middle it seems.
You do need to come at this book the right way though, you should have an open mind and realize that Japan does not have the same value system you see in English history books.
If you are reading this review you are curious already about Japan and I would say give this book a try, the stories are easy to read and most are only a few paragraphs long.
Those looking for novel stories from Japan would do well to pick up this book.
All the tales presented come from the era after the unification of Japan and are quite diverse.
Moreover, though stories like Urashimataro and The Bamboo Cutter's Daughter (forgive my momentary lapse on the actual name of the story) are present, there are a number of tales here I have not read anywhere else.
I'd also highly recommend anyone reading this book to read the introduction, as it provides invaluable information on the historical context of the stories as well as some remarks on the various religions of Japan that play a major role in several of the stories.
I couldn't bring myself to finish this collection because all of the tales are thoroughly male-centric -- the few women characters don't even have names! I know it's a sign of the eras in which they were written (many date back to the 700s), but still.... Also, many of the tales are very, very short, so there's literally not much to them (no character development, history, etc.). I have many shelves full of fairy tale collections, but I won't be keeping this volume.
Unfortunately I couldn't go on reading this book! The introduction was alright, but the selection + categorization of stories was poor. Many of them were too short to be engaging, and the few actually interesting stories were squished between several bland ones. Did not like it. Would love to find a better collection that presents a rich narrative...
I liked it. Nice fairy tales and stories from Japan!
I liked these stories so much, I wish I had gotten them in a different form.
This would be a really nice collection to get in hardcover and to read small groups of stories at a time.
It was so interesting to get a feel from the 200+ stories for Japanese cultural morals and folklore.
I read this book in preparation for a trip to Japan I was supposed to take, but it's inspired a lot of interest in more historical lore and myths and legends from other cultures as well.
it took me a long time to finish this because I went through a spate of nit really reading much. this book was a but if a stretch for me since I spend most of my tine reading sci-fi or fantasy but it was really enjoyable. it's a good book to pick up and put down, since all of the stories are pretty short. it was an interesting look into Japanese history and culture, and I totally found myself excited Everytime they mentioned a part of Kyoto that I know. ^__^
A diverse collection of Japanese folktales and myths organized by themes. Some stories are morality tales and others, supernatural tragedies. There are ghost stories, religious fables, and some stories that are just down right weird.
Book was thorough and had good analysis. Stories themselves were not always interesting though their format was educational. Hiding review as Royall Taylor is the anthologist and translator not writer
Nothing speaks to a culture more clearly than folk tales and ghost stories. A great collection of stories that never disappoints, and always excites and entertains. Strange, beautiful and wonderful.
Delightful collection. Variety of stories but largely focused on monks and the spiritual. Heads up, the time frame from which the tales are taken is entirely 13th C. and prior.
Commento del 10 aprile 2013Il volume propone una selezione di 77 testi tratti dalle due principali raccolte di setsuwa – il  Konjaku Monogatarishū  (1120 - periodo Heian) e l’ Uji Shūi Monogatari  (periodo Kamakura) –, ma anche dal  Kokonchomonjū  (dell’aristocratico Tachibana no Narisue, 1254), dall’ Hosshinshū  (a carattere religioso, 1208 – 1216), dall’ Heike monogatari  (capolavoro assoluto del genere gunki monogatari, redatto nel XIII secolo) e da molte raccolte “minori” compilate tra gli a
(capolavoro assoluto del genere gunki monogatari, redatto nel XIII secolo) e da molte raccolte “minori” compilate tra gli anni 822 e 1350.Se la selezione va incontro al neofita e al curioso che desidera godere solo di un assaggio (ma comunque valido e felicemente rappresentativo) della realtà della setsuwa bugaku, scontenta invece l’integralista sostenitore dell’originalità e della completezza, non per la ovvia parzialità di riproduzione dei testi originari, ma perché il curatore precisa nell’introduzione di essere intervenuto sui testi con ritocchi, modifiche, accorpamenti nel caso dell’esistenza di più versioni.Il volume si presenta comunque come un’ottima vetrina rappresentativa della letteratura giapponese classica dei setsuwa, che stuzzica interesse, curiosità e probabilmente desiderio di approfondimento.
Japanese tales/folklore are filled with monks, demons, gods, and foxes.
The stories got to be a little repetitive, but were still interesting.
Favorite lines: 1.
"It's not the rules that really count, it's the person" (59).2.
"Hate has brought me an eternity of suffering.
A grudge against someone else is just like a grudge against yourself" (138).3.
"A man values his life more than anything and he never forgets what he owes someone who's saved him" (140)!4.
"Kannon's vow to save suffering beings is as deep as the sea" (196).5.
"Be good to your mother and father!
That's the highest virtue.
There are over 200 tales in this collection, and many of them are tiny.
Taken alone, each one is fascinating.
But with so many together, one right after the other, I began to tire of them and had to force myself to keep reading.
By the time I was done, my head was full of gods and demons, monks and monkeys, badgers, snakes, and foxes.
The introduction by the translator gives a thorough picture of the Japan of the period in which the tales were told, and how each of the characters figures into ancient Japanese mythology.
All told, worth persevering.
The tales in this book are not folktales or legends, but rather literary tales in the same mode as the above but written down in earlier time periods than most Japanese folktales seem to be set in. Some are exciting and flavorful, but others are sort of bland. Still, this book is well worth having. There are a lot of interesting stories, which show different aspects of historical Japan's way of looking at the world, both social and natural.
An interesting look at medieval Japan's folklore and religion. The introduction gives a good background to the culture and the beliefs of the time and indicates how daily life was influenced by tradition, and how those traditions gave rise to these stories. The stories themselves vary from haunting to relationships to monks seeking Enlightenment. I enjoyed reading them and seeing how these tales have a different aesthetic to Western stories.
A solid collection of classic Edo-period short stories and a proper glimpse into classic Japan.Variety is wide, although at some points the stories can feel a bit repetitive, as every second one seems to involve Sutras or monks somehow, which only goes to show how important role buddhist religion played at those times.
The introduction detailing the Japanese history and culture that these folk tales came from was well-written and informative. The tales themselves, on the other hand, were extremely repetitive and dully written. The tales are very short--some as much as a half page long--and are organized rather haphazardly by theme, which doesn't work particularly well as there is much overlap.
A collection of anecdotes, fairy tales and very short stories from early Japan. Some of them are extremely odd by modern standards, like the brief note about the noble who was about to ravage a maiden when she farted. Oh the disgrace! I might have to become a monk. Always interesting reading outside your normal cultural boundaries.
O ile tematyka bardzo ciekawa, o tyle jest to lektura dla najwytrwalszych. Bardzo krótkie opowiadania sprawiają, że po zakończeniu jednego, ciężko się skoncentrować na kolejnym. Wymęczył mnie również wstęp, który był bardzo potrzebny, ale jego obszerność przywoływała pytanie: nie dałoby się tego podzielić na krótsze fragmenty i wpleść gdzieś w treść?
Some of these stories drove me crazy because I grew up with European fairy tales where the hero always rescues the princess and the saints help the poor and helpless, but overall they are a fascinating look into Japanese culture and mores.
