https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76171.We
Besides, Zamyatin had the guts to apply a letter and a name to his characters, while your very English "Winston" makes your work smack of parochialism and, frankly, condescension.
Maybe that's why 1984 feels so forced (remember that awful middle section outlining the world's politics - BORING!), while We feels so much more natural and easy to read.Furthermore, Zamyatin's prose is beautiful.
Yes, you have the occasional turn of phrase that came out well, iconic, even, but Zamyatin's writing is beautiful throughout, even in its stochasticity.
It's the writing of a poet who actually lived under totalitarianism, not a vested academic who feared a potential threat.
It managed to keep my love of philosophical discussions intact but greatly decreased the amount of wine I can have fueling those.In short, I'm no longer the same person as I was a decade ago, reading Zamyatin's masterpiece for the first time.And this book for me now is very different than it was back then.
And for this I love it.------------------ORIGINAL REVIEW FROM 2012 BASED ON THE MEMORY OF FIRST READINGS OF THIS NOVEL IN 2004-2005:Zamyatin's masterfully written dystopian masterpiece predated (and likely inspired) the popular Western books that explored the similar themes - Brave New World and Nineteen Eighty-Four.
Guess that groundbreaking novel!Answer: George Orwell’s 1984?Response: Close.
Where We fails is precisely where 1984most succeeds: in its treatment of language itself and its effects on pre-revolutionary and post-revolutionary consciousness (which in We's case is synonumous with the before and after of love).The hero of We is a builder of rocket ships, and a typical man of his society.
Unfortunately, when our hero falls in love, his language becomes filled with cliché, and it is difficult to distinguish his revolutionary sentiments from the sentimental outpourings of a second-rate romance novel.
We by Yevgeny Zamyatin is a must read for fans and students of the Dystopian genre.
Published in 1920, before Brave New World and well before 1984 (which could even be considered a second generation 1984 as Orwell began his seminal work after reading a French translation of We) Zamyatin’s vision is well before his time.
Perhaps some of his original meanings have been lost in the cultural and generational translations as well as from the original Russian, We can be a difficult story to follow and lacks some of the malevolent charm and suspense of the more recognized works.
According to OneState’s dogma, Adam and Eve were stupid to choose freedom over “happiness”, and since they were expelled from the beautifully walled-in paradise, (Christian fundamentalist) believers in monolithic conformity have strived to re-establish the chains that deliver complete safety, which is falsely labelled “happiness”.In the automatised, regulated OneState, this “utopian” idea of a new paradise is accomplished, and everything is done according to the collective need, in complete disregard of personal identity and emotions.
The walls of the world are built to keep followers of certain dogmas (political or religious) in order, out of touch with freedom and choice, as well as separated from an overarching, comparative education that opens up perspectives rather than spreading populist slogans of “truth”.There is no happiness in paradise, is the lesson I learned from this novel.
As builder of a space ship that will provide aliens (or: us) with an account of the glass metropolis (see: communism), he transitions from zombie troglodyte to someone infected with a "soul." This was one of the "landmark" classics of science fiction, and along with the aforementioned "World" (sorry, just not a fan) & 1984 (haven't read it) makes up a celebrated trilogy.The protagonist becomes human & his confusion infuses the work with a sense of wonderment, of a certain ethereal-ness.
There are events that both the reader and the hero do not fully understand, and this is my favorite thing about this work.
هل يمكن ان نصل الى زمن يكون مرضك "النفس" ان تصبح تشعر بالجمال والحب والطبيعة وتتخلى عن المدينة الواحدة والذي يقودها المحسن وبعد ان تتحول الى مجرد رقم في هذه الدولة.فالبشر كالآلات يتحركون بانتظام ويتوقفون عندا لطلب ويتحركون بالشارع بوقت واحد وبلباس واحد ويستخدمون نفس المواصلات ويهتفون لنفس المحسن ولا يتحدثون فيما بينهم. فالكل مراقب والنفس محسوب عليك .نحن ارقام في هذا العالم ، نحن الاَلات ونصنع الاَلات لتسيطر على حياتنا اكثر وشكرا للمحسن الذي انعم علينا بهذه الحياة الرغيدة. اَي جمال في السماء والاشجار ورائحة الأزهار والنباتات فهي شيء قديم لاناس عاشوا في عصور غابرة.رواية قاتمة لمستقبل بشري مخيف
Here are some of my observations.- We is more about Humanity, and 1984 is more about Politics.- The stakes feel higher in 1984.- I might be biased (I'm definitely biased) but Orwell improved on certain things (Room 101, general feelings of unrest, the book line).- One of the best parts of 1984 is when Winston becomes a traitorous bastard, and we didn't see that to the same extent in this novel.- The best part of 1984 is the last line, and this last line was good but not as good.You should read this, srs.
707. Мы = We, Yevgeny ZamyatinWe (Russian: Мы, translit. My) is a dystopian novel by Russian writer Yevgeny Zamyatin, completed in 1921. The novel was first published in 1924 by E. P. Dutton in New York in an English translation by Gregory Zilboorg. The novel describes a world of harmony and conformity within a united totalitarian state.ما - یوگنی زامیاتین (نشر دیگر) ادبیات روسی علمی تخیلی؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: چهاردهم ماه می سال 2012 میلادیعنوان: ما؛ نویسنده: یوگنی زامیاتین (سامیاتین)؛مترجم: بهر
Мы = We, Yevgeny ZamyatinWe (Russian: Мы, translit.
My) is a dystopian novel by Russian writer Yevgeny Zamyatin, completed in 1921.
The novel describes a world of harmony and conformity within a united totalitarian state.ما - یوگنی زامیاتین (نشر دیگر) ادبیات روسی علمی تخیلی؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: چهاردهم ماه می سال 2012 میلادیعنوان: ما؛ نویسنده: یوگنی زامیاتین (سامیاتین)؛مترجم: بهروز مشیری؛ 1352، در 220 ص؛ عنوان: ما؛ نویسنده: یوگنی زامیاتین (سامیاتین)؛مترجم: انوشیروان دولتشاهی؛ تهران، نشر دیگر، 1379، در 266 ص؛ شابک: ایکس - 964718803؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان روسیه - سده 20 مد‌استان «ما» تصویری از روح پیچید‌ه‌ ی انسان، د‌ر رویارویی و گیر و گرفت با نمادهای «قد‌رت»‌ است.
It was like finding this artefact of world lit.
But then Orwell was writing more than 25 years later when advanced ideas like television were in the air.
He begins by being a rather tiresome booster of OneState.
(Later, when it flew, I was assailed by mental footage of Buck Rodgers' low-tech rocket jiggled on fishing line before the camera.) Everything is fine with D-503 until he falls passionately in love with I-330, who is both beautiful and a willful transgressor of state laws.
There are a number of disconnected images, scenes that don't quite fit with the otherwise lucid patterning of the novel.
A city of glass, 1,000 years in the future, domed, with a green wall, to keep out all the undesirable, primitive life forms.
Animal, human, vegetable or insect...A clean and sparkling place, for its millions of citizens, everything and everyone, has a schedule, the perfect "One State".
D-503, has a regular sex partner, 0-90, but she falls in love, with the mathematician, the State, doesn't approve, emotional entanglements.
Love reduces people to silliness, misery and sometimes, a little euphoria, but there is something strange going on, a secret, she has an agenda.
Causing much turbulence between he and dear, jealous, 0-90, but he is being watched, closely, by the Guardians.
It unequivocally debunks the utopian collective ideal.
Communism (in practice, if not in theory) demands each of its fellow-travelers to exist on a purely atomic level.
Sure, economic equality seems like a nice ideal, right?
All these puffed-up intellectuals imagining they've thrown off the weight of myth and simplistic, primitive 'gods' when they've only invented a new one—all the more absurd for its rationalist pretensions.
Call me a decadent bourgeois if you wish, but I am unwilling to give up my individualism—yes, including my selfishness!—for the sake of some theoretical, neutered society—an always-deferred happiness that resembles heaven to an almost satirical extent.Zamyatin pulls no punches in dealing with these blind spots of Soviet totalitarianism.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Russian Big Brother: "We" by Yevgeny Zamyatin“Nineteen Eighty-Four” and “We”: both have constant surveillance of the individual, though through different means.
Both have state control over passion, albeit in rather different ways.
“We” by contrast is actually a lot of fun, I rather prefer it of the two; it's not afraid in places to be a bit silly and it's vision of the future is somehow inspired, with their transparent dwellings and privacy granted only for your allotted hour of sex with your pre-selected partner.
Now, why would I think that an old SF novel from 1924 might not be as polished and extravagant in exploring ideas and crafting a truly delicious dystopia as, say, 1984, or Anthem, or Brave New World as they did many years later?
Especially when this little gem is polished to a very high degree.It lambasts current and past ideas of utopia, turning sex and the "greatest good" into a truly timeless dystopia.
Well, it's true, or at least, the authors admitted as such.
Rand was nuts with the worldbuilding and Huxley feels like he cribbed this entire novel, but 1984 goes the distance.
A friend in my rereading updates was gracious enough to mention Anna Karennia and Vronsky, and there is a current in society which sees love and sexual attraction as a rebellion in the making against society, something intrinsically disruptive, here says Orwell, watch my man Winston Smith gambolling as happy as a new born lamb - now introduce woman into my test tube and lets stand well back and see what happens, in a rarefied form Huxley says acceptance of the realities of the world is a spell, sufficient exposure to something else (view spoiler)[ but probably not something sexual since he has designed his utopia with ubiquitous guilt free sex (view spoiler)[ fortunately much of his society is automated (hide spoiler)] (hide spoiler)]will lead to disenchantment and escape from the iron cage of the Ford factory(view spoiler)[ even at the cost of entirely mangling Max Weber's metaphors, sorry Max  (hide spoiler)].
Κανείς από τους υπηκόους του Μονοκράτους δεν βρέθηκε έκτοτε πέρα από το Τείχος, και κανείς (;) ποτέ δεν έμαθε αν υπάρχουν ακόμη άνθρωποι εκεί έξω.
Στο Μονοκράτος τα όνειρα θεωρούνται σοβαρή οργανική διαταραχή∙ και η φαντασία δεν είναι τίποτε άλλο παρά μια αρρώστια, ένας σωματικός ιστός που νοσεί και πρέπει να καυτηριαστεί, το τελευταίο φράγμα στον υποτιθέμενο δρόμο για την ευτυχία.
Αφηγητής της ιστορίας είναι ο D-503, ένας από τους μαθηματικούς του Μονοκράτους, στον οποίο έχει ανατεθεί η κατασκευή του Ολοκληρωτή, ενός διαστημοπλοίου που θα επεκτείνει την κυριαρχία του Μονοκράτους και στους άλλους πλανήτες, σε κάθε έμβιο ον του σύμπαντος.
Part of me wishes I would look at the things that make We special and unique than its successors, but I can only hear in my head an imaginary teen in an imaginary English class saying "Ohmigosh they only have numbers for names that's ssoooooo crazy" and "This is JUST like The Giver!"I convinced myself that this book's antiquity and originality would be enough for me to willingly drop my deterrence to dystopia and to be able to enjoy this for what it is.
But when Zamyatin published We back in 1924, there weren’t many earlier dystopian works other than Jack London’s The Iron Heel (1907).But to return to the book itself, it is a very powerful exploration of a totalitarian society gone mad, where happiness is defined as the absence of free will, and emotions are considering mental illness.
For that reason, it does not have the same towering stature as a dystopian masterpiece in Western society that Nineteen Eighty-Four and Brave New World have, though it fully deserves it.
Το να σκοτώνεις -δηλαδή ν' αφαιρέσεις 50 χρόνια από το άθροισμα όλων των ανθρώπινων ζωών  ήταν έγκλημα, αλλά το ν' αφαιρέσεις από το άθροισμα όλων των ανθρώπινων ζωών 50.000.000 χρόνια δεν ήταν έγκλημα!
Όχι, σοβαρά, δεν ήταν αστείο;"  Με σχεδόν ποιητικό λόγο ο Ζαμιατιν μας μεταφέρει στην δυστοπια του "Εμείς".
Η δυστοπια του είναι καλοδουλεμένη και τρομακτική.
Orwell έκανε ένα ξεκάθαρο  κλοπή-paste του "Εμείς".
(view spoiler)[ μέχρι και το τέλος δηλαδή; Εντάξει λίγη φαντασία βρε παιδιά  (hide spoiler)] Σαφώς υπάρχουν πολλές διάφορες κυρίως στη γραφή και στους χαρακτήρες, αλλά η υπόθεση....
Ωστόσο ο Ζαμιατιν θεωρείται ο "παππούς" της κατηγορίας αυτής οπότε δεν έχετε (αν σας αρέσει το είδος) παρά να το διαβάσετε.
per non dire poi del "bisogno", ormai dato da tutti per scontato e assodato, di condividere ogni istante e immagine della propria vita e mettersi in mostra il più possibile, altro che pareti di vetro...); e visto che nel mezzo, tra il 1920 e quel futuro remoto, ci siamo noi con il nostro presente, non si può negare quanto il romanzo sia attuale, in quanto esprime appieno i bisogni, i desideri e i timori degli esseri umani del 2018.
This is the "granddaddy" of the modern dystopian novel, the book that influenced Huxley's Brave New World, Rand's Anthem, and Orwell's 1984: Yevgeny Zamyatin's We (1924).
I've read it repeatedly and taught it, as well, and I always discover something new in the novel each time I turn to it.
Zamyatin is very clever in his use of names and numbers and mathematics, and his psychological portrait of the protagonist is as absorbing as it is disturbing.
This book was banned in Zamyatin's native Russia for over sixty years.
It remains a first stop for anyone wanting to explore the dystopian tradition, and an excellent example of science fiction at its finest.
Writers, including George Orwell, Aldous Huxley, Yevzeny Zamyatin, Margaret Atwood, Anthony Burgess, and many others, through their works, have written accounts of such dysfunctional societies where either some form of oppression is imposed upon its people or they are manipulated to adopt and adhere to a lifestyle which is inevitable in the systematically controlled societal structure.
To quote his exact words:“It is in effect a study of the Machine, the genie that man has thoughtlessly let out of its bottle and cannot put back again.” Zamyatin’s concern for a technologically mechanized work where even the smallest chores of everyday life will be ordered, leaving no place for freedom of thinking and creativity, where there will be masses of brainwashed people following the pattern imposed upon them and where a deviation from that pattern would result in death penalty, doesn’t look like a far possibility.
Brace yourself and take notes.In a not so distant future you may be reduced to a number, a cipher that is.May the beauty of the perfect algorithm shine upon you, reflecting in thousand mirrors, ingeniously providing the adequate amount of light and darkness, enabling you to rest when time is and be awake when needed for the nation.You dont even have to think, WE have found the key to eternal happiness. All the choices our forefathers had to endure, WE have taken from your shoulders that burden.
Brace yourself and take notes.In a not so distant future you may be reduced to a number, a cipher that is.May the beauty of the perfect algorithm shine upon you, reflecting in thousand mirrors, ingeniously providing the adequate amount of light and darkness, enabling you to rest when time is and be awake when needed for the nation.You don´t even have to think, WE have found the key to eternal happiness.
Fear no more, the dystopias are out there, coming to a country near you – not so sure about the zombies though.
And here is an amusing illustration of their results: the music of Scriabin, twentieth century...""...Epilepsy is a psychic sickness- a pain...
Not our kind of sunshine, the pale-bluish-crystalline kind, which disperses evenly through our glass bricks- no: it was a wild, rushing, burning sun, expelling itself, shedding itself in little tufts.""'WE' is divine, and 'I' is satanic.""Individual consciousness is just sickness.""Revolutions are infinite.""[People] have wanted someone, anyone, to tell them once and for all what happiness is - and then to attach them to this happiness with a chain."For even more information on the context of We, consult Eric Rabkin's article in Foundation no.
This dismal piece of writing (and I’m not talking about the dystopian setting) is a perfect end for the self-imposed restrictions on my reading choices.
Take this line from the introduction: We is a Russian novel that first saw the light of day in English in New York.
I don’t know, I would think that it was because of it’s Samizdat quality, and it’s émigré status coming out of Communist Russia, but in the next clause I am told that it being a 20th century Russian classic published first in New York is really no big deal.
. .] Yu-10 could easily derive from the Swan Hunter yard numbers of no fewer than three of Zamyatin's major icebreakers – 1012, 1020, 1021 [.
R-13 can be found here too, as well as in the yard number of Sviatogor A/W 904.Many comparisons to The Bible exist in We. There are similarities between Genesis Chapters 1–4 and We, where the One State is considered Paradise, D-503 is Adam, and I-330 is Eve. The snake in this piece is S-4711, who is described as having a bent and twisted form, with a "double-curved body" (he is a double agent).
Το σαθρό οικοδόμημα της σκέψης του θα καταρρεύσει εκκωφαντικά όταν γνωρίσει την διαφορετική απ'τις άλλες I-330 (δεν υπάρχουν ονόματα, μόνο αριθμοί, οι γυναίκες παίρνουν τα φωνήεντα κ οι άντρες τα σύμφωνα).Το εύρημα της πρόζας του είναι αυτό που καθορίζει κατά πόσο οι αναγνώστες θα ενθουσιαστούν ή όχι με το Εμείς, αφού η γραφή του αφηγητή θυμίζει τα προπαγανδιστικά κείμενα των ημερών του Ζαμιάτιν.
Υπάρχουν βέβαια στιγμές που δεν λειτουργεί τόσο καλά αλλά σε γενικές γραμμές δύσκολα χαλάει την ανάγνωση.Στο τέλος της έκδοσης υπάρχει ένα εξαιρετικό επίμετρο περί δυστοπίας κ ρομαντισμού οπότε αντιγράφω:"[...] στις πιο κλασσικές απ'τις δυστοπίες αυτές, περιγράφεται ένα ιεραρχικό κράτος-κοινωνία που ελέγχεται από έναν ηγέτη, ένα κόμμα ή κάποια εταιρεία.
You can imagine my excitement that I was finally going to read the father of all dystopian novels.I have to start by making a comparison to 1984, there is a shocking similarity between the worlds- (view spoiler)[The controlled environment, the whole story from the perspective of a protagonist scared to go against rules, a woman whose involvement makes the protagonist do things he wouldn't have otherwise dreamed off.
Makes me clearly realize why this book was banned in Russia soo long ago - as this was published in 1924 (right around the time Russia became a communist country).The main problem with this book is it lacks the urgency that is expected in a dystopian novel.
to go in the ship, D-503 starts writing his Conspectus, a kind of diary that begins as his way of showing us what life is like in the One State.A mathematician in a highly mathematical society, D-503 lives like everyone else, every day more or less the same, until he encounters I-330, a woman who brings out strong emotion in him, who scares and confounds him but who he becomes obsessed with.
Buddy read with Megha, Roh, Adita, Parthi, Nameeta, and Poonam. I can see why this book is so famous. I can see how Huxley, Bradbury, and Orwell were inspired by him. I can see how this book inspired every other future dystopian novel. However, it was rather underwhelming. Maybe it was this particular translation, but I felt like the focus here was more on the language, than on the theme. While that worked for Bradbury, it doesn't work here. I know I need to review this and others in full, just give me a couple of days.
