https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/565273.The_Under_Dog_and_Other_Stories
Poirot is quite a humble little fellow *screech go the brakes.* Actually Poirot’s biggest fan is himself. He is terribly condescending to those who don’t use their “little gray cells,” but that’s what makes him funny. Excellent book of stories.
1. The Under Dog ⭐⭐⭐⭐2. The Plymouth Express ⭐⭐⭐3. The Affair at the Victory Ball ⭐⭐⭐4. The Market Basing Mystery ⭐⭐🌟💫5. The Lemesurier Inheritance ⭐⭐⭐⭐6. The Cornish Mystery ⭐⭐⭐⭐7. The King of Clubs ⭐⭐⭐⭐8. The Submarine Plans ⭐⭐⭐9. The Adventure of the Clapham Cook ⭐⭐⭐
1. The Under Dog ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️2. The Plymouth Express ⭐️⭐️⭐️3. The Affair at the Victory Ball ⭐️⭐️⭐️4. The Market Basing Mystery ⭐️⭐️🌟💫5. The Lemesurier Inheritance ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️6. The Cornish Mystery ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️7. The King of Clubs ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️8. The Submarine Plans ⭐️⭐️⭐️9. The Adventure of the Clapham Cook ⭐️⭐️⭐️
Well I started reading and then realized I had already read the first Story. Looked them up and see that I've read them all in other short story collections. Oh well. C'est la vie.
Me ha gustado esta colección de relatos en general, aunque creo que prefiero las historias cortas de Marple antes que las de Poirot. Algunos relatos me han gustado más que otros, pero la mayoría me han parecido un poco precipitados y me hubiera gustado saber más de los personajes. Poirot me saca de quicio pero entiendo que ese es el objetivo de la autora y es divertido a su manera. Cómo me suele pasar, lo que más me gusta son los ambientes en los que se desarrollan los misterios: mansiones, bailes de disfraces...
A collection of Christie short stories starring my favorite detective, Hercule Poirot. Most of them were good Poirot mysteries, sometimes with Hastings bumbling along. My least favorite story was probably "The Lemesurier Inheritance". I didn't quite make the connections in that story that Poirot did. I could've used a few more details to help me out. But, it was still a good story. No story stood out as a favorite because I enjoyed so many of them.
Hence the innocence with which some of the cases are addressed, such as "The submarine plans."In several of these tales, Poirot applies his own law, takes justice in his own hands: the one just quoted and "The King of Clubs."===========================================================================No alcanzo a comprender cómo el título original de este libro The underdog and other stories" llegó a ser traducido al español como "Ocho casos de Poirot", cuando en realidad son nueve: el que da título a la edición inglesa ("El inferior" = "The under dog") y otros ocho más, mucho más cortos, en los que Poirot colabora -de nuevo- con el capitán Hastings.
Hercule Poirot returns with a novella and eight other short stories in Agatha Christie's The Under Dog and Other Stories. Put together into a compilation for the first time in 1951, the stories themselves actually were among Christie's earliest, being published in magazines between 1923 and 1926.Read the rest of this review, more reviews, and other wonderful, geeky articles on FangirlNation
El inferior⭐⭐⭐⭐El expreso de Plymouth⭐⭐⭐⭐El caso del baile de la Victoria ⭐⭐⭐El misterio de Market Bassing ⭐⭐⭐ La herencia de los Lemesurier ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐El misterio de Cornualles ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐El rey del trébol ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐El robo de los planos del submarino ⭐⭐⭐La aventura de la cocinera ⭐⭐⭐Cada vez me sorprendo más con el personaje de Poirot ya que nunca he entendido como puede descubrir el misterio en serio nunca le puedo seguir el paso a este detective.
El inferior⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️El expreso de Plymouth⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️El caso del baile de la Victoria ⭐️⭐️⭐️El misterio de Market Bassing ⭐️⭐️⭐️ La herencia de los Lemesurier ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️El misterio de Cornualles ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️El rey del trébol ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️El robo de los planos del submarino ⭐️⭐️⭐️La aventura de la cocinera ⭐️⭐️⭐️Cada vez me sorprendo más con el personaje de Poirot ya que nunca he entendido como puede descubrir el misterio en serio nunca le puedo seguir el paso a este detective.
Some of the stories were similar in plot to other short stories in other books, but I did enjoy the others in the book.
Three Hercule Poirot mysteries. Included are The Underdog, Four and Twenty Blackbirds and The Dream. All are excellent mysteries.
No tan buenas como casos largos, pero muy buenos si eres gran fan de la interacción estilo Sherlock-Watson, con casos rapidos e interesantes
But when a new rash of firstborn deaths breaks out in the Lemesurier family, Poirot does not believe that it is the curse at work.
Mrs. Todd wants Monsieur Poirot to find her cook.
Poirot hesitatingly agrees – the disappearance of the domestic is not a case which he usually accepts, but he is intrigued.
Poirot’s investigations take on a much more British aspect whenever he is aided by his trio of sidekicks – Hastings, Japp, and Miss Lemon.One point before my cautions – the plot of The Plymouth Express is the same as The Mystery on the Blue Train, only much shorter.
I haven't read many of the short stories, though, so I thought this would be interesting.I think the best way to review short story collections is to talk a little bit about each short story separately and (hopefully) briefly.
Also, she has a tendency to cheat: she purposefully withholds information from the reader to avoid giving the mystery away.Characters: She tends to stereotype a lot.
Except for the first one, all of the stories in this collection also feature Captain Hastings, Poirot's friend who would be something like John Watson to him.
The Hastings stories are all in first person, and I especially like to see the difference in the writing.Representation: Nonexistent.
This was a collection of short stories featuring Agatha Christie's Hercule Poirot.
Short stories are generally not my favorite things to read, and mysteries in short story format are especially unsatisfying to me.
The first story in the collection (The Under Dog), and the last story (Adventure of Clapham) were especially enjoyable to me, although I liked Submarine Plans as well.These stories were a stripped down Agatha Christie.
I definitely liked this collection better than The Mousetrap and Other Plays (I do think Christie's plays are weaker than her novels and short stories), but it wasn't a collection of short stories that will particularly stick with me.
If you like Christie, and are looking for a (very) fast read, the stories are fine.
If you can't figure out the "twist" before the end of 90% of them, than you are probably new to the world of Agatha Christie (and mystery fiction, for that matter), and if that is the case, can I suggest other books for you to read instead?
In fact, let's do just that!Here are some suggestions for awesome Agatha Christie books that are better than this story collection.
Christie doesn't give herself enough time to flesh out some of these characters, and when it's revealed that the culprit is someone who appeared for half a page (or, in one instance, never makes an appearance in the story at all), it feels a bit rushed, making one feel as if one was short-sheeted.
"The Under Dog" is likely a good starting point for readers new to Christie, but they should probably put the book down after that story is finished.
I’m a big fan of the David Suchet Poirot production that aired for so long on PBS. My kids are too. But while my son has read several of the Poirot books himself, this was my first, at his recommendation. I certainly enjoyed the stories here – and I recall seeing a few of them on the screen already. But for me, David Suchet just is Hercule Poirot, and the stories themselves don’t have anything over the television series – which hits every detail just right.
Este libro es fantástico y el protagonista de él lo es aún más. El detective Hercules Poirot nos desenmascara a ocho asesinos distintos en los que nada es lo que parece. Pronto la reseña :)
Notable stories are The Cornish Mystery, The King of Clubs and The Submarine Plans.
(hide spoiler)]The Affair at the Victory BallAfter a Victory Ball, Lord Cronshaw and his girlfriend were found dead: he stabbed in the super room; she, the next day of a cocaine overdose.Poirot is asked to look over the case and works with Inspector Japp to figure out who murdered them.
(view spoiler)[ Davidson,a member of the party, killed Lord Cronshaw.
She claims a vagabond was in the room where she was talking with the deceased and killed him.Poirot makes inquiries around the scene of the crime as well as of the family where Valerie took refuge.
Each one is a classic cozy mystery that Agatha Christie is so famous for writing.Each story has Ms. Christie's most famous detective, Hercule Poirot, using his little great cells to solve crimes that are impossible to have occurred or make no sense as to who-dun-it.
I love the way Ms. Christie lays down the proper hints and indications to the solution of the mystery and how you need to be on your toes to realize what significance you just read.
Need to find some more short stories to read.
(hide spoiler)]4 The Market Basing Mystery - Poirot, lured from holiday by locked room, sniffs in vain for smoke, inspects hanky in left sleeve of recluse Walter Protheroe shot behind left ear, gun clean of fingerprints lay loosely in right, found by long-time servant Miss Clegg.
(hide spoiler)]9 The Adventure of the Clapham Cook - Poirot refuses Hasting's news item of bank clerk Davis missing with fortune in securities, but determined visitor Mrs Todd amuses him over vanished cook Eliza Dunn, and follows up at own expense despite one guinea payoff.
(view spoiler)[Poirot enlists Japp so lodger caught America bound, and trunk with missing Davis' body found in RR station.
Volumul '' Asupritul și alte povestiri'' de Agatha Christie a apărut la editura RAO in anul 2014 în seria Hercule Poirot.
Volumul a apărut în anul 1951 cu titlul '' The Under Dog and Other Stories''.Volumul cuprinde nouă povestiri în care poirot, de câteva ori însoțit de vechiul lui prieten Hastings și în prezența lui Japp, reușește să găsească adevărul chiar dacă acesta era ascuns de cele mai multe ori cu un talent deosebit.
The Under Dog and Other Stories by Agatha Christie is a collection of nine short stories featuring Hercule Poirot.
These stories deftly demonstrate why Christie is the Queen of Crime; in just five hours this audio book covers nine signature stories full of the complexity and genius of her longer novels.
Listeners new to Agatha Christie may wish to start elsewhere, to have the backstory on the main characters we get a brief glimpse of in these short stories.
Fans of Christie and her Belgian detective will find a quick, but intriguing audio book, perfect for a lighter, short summer listen.
This is a collection of short stories with Hercule Poirot. Published in 1951, "The Under Dog" was the longest story of nine short stories in the book. It was also the most developed of all the various story- lines. It was with satisfaction when I found out who was the killer of Sir Reuben Astwell at the end of the story.As with all Poirot's investigations, I always enjoy the crime stories or mysterious disappearance of things or persons. It showed the creative mind of the author, Agatha Christie.
Agatha Christie is the queen of mystery, of course, but her genius just doesn't shine in the short story format. It also annoys me to no end that her stories have been published in such a way that I am always slapping up against ones I have already ready read without knowing it. It's a little unfair of me to hold it against the stories themselves, but I'm petty like that. However, despite having read all but the title story at least once before, I found them a delightfully entertaining read. Poirot is always my favorite, even in small doses.
"Las personas que creen saberlo todo, se equivocan".Me gustaron mucho las 8 historias, pero a algunas les faltaron detalles para hacerlas más emocionantes. Aunque en ninguna pude adivinar al culpable y eso es lo que gusta en este tipo de libros, son muy poco predecibles, e incluso con muchos detalles uno ni se imagina quién es el culpable.Me encanta el estilo de esta autora y sobre todo el género, así que sin duda seguiré consumiendo sus historias.
A collection of 9 short stories by Agatha Christie with Hercule Poirot at the helm of affairs. Many of the stories are passable but a few such as the Clapham Cook and the Underdog are quite good. As is expected the writing is good but many of the stories are pretty ordinary by her standards. This is one of her first book so this might be expected. A decent read though the stories are a bit of hit-or-miss.
(Date may be wrong as I read this on a cruise and didn't keep track of the dates I was reading)After bing reading Christie, I realized that I don't like her short stories as much as I do her novels. There just isn't the time to develop characters and plot line. Too much of the story is left out for the reader to even attempt a reasoned guess at who the perpetrator is.
the queen of crime was not at her best here i am sad to say. flimsy explanation that you might find in a fantastic fantasy anime were presented here. hypnosis to reveal the memories? extendable tongs and disguises? this does not hold in a Hercule Poirot adventure (maybe dennis the menace i dont know)overall a sub-par collection of stories
