https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17494.Five_Have_a_Mystery_to_Solve
The book is simply sub-par.
Now I understand why I don't remember reading the 20th Famous Five book.
I had perhaps made an attempt, and did not finish the book.The story is ludicrous beyond belief.
Our Five want to go camp in a quaint, crooked looking cottage.
The cottage have a world class view of the coastline, the harbor, the island etc.
To those not familiar with this series, I think the mention of the word island will make the initiated perk up in anticipation.Sadly, my anticipation was cheated by the paucity of proper plotting.
This book should not have been greenlit for publishing.

Same Story, Different Island30 September 2015 Well, I am getting close to reading all of the Enid Blyton books that I intend on reading (I have no interest in Mallory Towers or the Naughtiest School Girl, and since Blyton wrote heaps of books, and I have already read quite a few, I think I will leave it with the Famous Five and Secret Seven) so I am slowly getting there and hopefully once they are out of the way I can then look at reading some other series that I have been itching to read again
Same Story, Different Island30 September 2015	Well, I am getting close to reading all of the Enid Blyton books that I intend on reading (I have no interest in Mallory Towers or the Naughtiest School Girl, and since Blyton wrote heaps of books, and I have already read quite a few, I think I will leave it with the Famous Five and Secret Seven) so I am slowly getting there and hopefully once they are out of the way I can then look at reading some other series that I have been itching to read again for a while (though I won't say what they are just yet).
However these days when I read about the police storming an island and arresting the bad guys I cannot help but think that they look something like this:
Anne is showing signs of lust for adventure and may yet hang up her pinny and mother hen award.
Dick decides to not to be mini Julian and strikes out of the shadows.
He also wishes Wilf would take him away from all this crap or at least knew the number for the RSPCA.
Julian still thinks he's in charge but Anne and Dick may flip at any moment even if George is losing her edge and Tim runs off into the sunset with Wilf.
Die zweitletze Folge der Bücher bringt nicht wirklich was Neues auf den Tisch. Die Tierpfeiffe war mir noch in Erinnerung - oder was das vielleicht von einer anderen Folge ursprünglich? - ich habe den Verdacht die wird noch paarmal auftauchen.. [23.09.2018]


These books (Famous five) are hands down one of my favorite books from my childhood. All those adventures and mystery …and those sandwiches they always packed! aww, just the best! I would love to read one of these again. To bring back those memories..memories of first experiences with reading books.
One of my favorite adventures of the series. Whispering Island was something I remembered soon as I started rereading it, but it still felt exciting to reread!
I read it just to reminisce my childhood...
In my opinion, I think it is important to remember these books were written for children. Many of the reviews I read complain that the stories as we near the end of the series are similar. As a child reader of the Nancy Drew and Hardy Boys series, I was captivated by every book. If the stories seemed similar, I didn’t notice. The children who read these books when they were first published probably didn’t notice either. The characters are interesting! In this book, Anne comes out of her “mouse” role to show some spunk! Way to go, Anne!
Can the Five piece together the mystery and uncover the secrets that surround Whispering Island?Random thoughts:It seems that Julian, Dick and Anne now live near Kirrin Cottage, which changes a bit the situation of the series, where a visit from the cousins was a big deal or at least involved some logistical difficulties.
A bit careless, Ju!Another thing that bothered me is that the children were in danger on the island and they had a perfect opportunity to escape and alert the authorities when Wilfred arrived with a boat, but they didn’t take it.
Just get away, guys!One thing I have noticed in this book is that it’s more dialogue-heavy than others in the series.
Felt like a rather rushed adventure.
adventure is necessary in life. don't get too comfortable or you'll be on your way to being obsolete
Instead of taking their boat immediately back to get the police, they decided it would be a nice time to get some sleep.
Why, simply because the plot dictates that Anne needs to "turn into a tiger".* Instead of having a backup plan with somebody left behind to contact the police, the Five always seem to be inviting a situation where all of them get into trouble.
But in this book, they seem to be living close to each other.* In the other books, the Five know that they need to pull their boats up on the shore (like at Kirrin Island) to avoid it being washed out to sea.
:)I think that the "Famous Five" were the first real books (not picture books) I've ever read - the series that started it all!I remember them being the favourites of my crush-at-the-time (apparently I've always had a thing for intellectuals).
:P Books last, romances fade...I remember not yet being able to pronounce English names correctly, but pronouncing them according to Croatian shallow ortography - and Uncle Quentin frustrated me with his unpronounceable Q!And I remember being rather enthralled with their adventures.
And the elements of the stories (this particular one, at least) have stuck with me, I see, in ways I didn't expect and wasn't conscious of.
Nostalgia reads!
"Finding secret passages, drinking ginger beer, hunting treasure, and foiling evil-doers."I absolutely adored Famous Five as a child. I trawled through secondhand stores and slowly acquired all of them. For some reason in my childhood, there were lots of British books and comics widely available and back then they were sold for the mighty sum of 10 cents. Seems funny now when some of the secondhand shops charge $7-10 per book! I still have all of them safely saved in storage for when Little Miss grows up.
This was the book I read least out of the series as a child so this reread is perhaps only my 3rd or 4th as opposed to some of them I have read many times. As such, I found myself immersed in this more than some of the others, and although by this point the stories are quite repetitive, I still enjoyed it. Classic FF elements include: gold beds, secret tunnels, an island, thuggish men, animals, TIMMY (who almost chokes in this one!), a rude boy who changes his ways after meeting the Five and an elderly widow. Classic!
My first ever Five book and I am not impressed. So many cliches, and stereotypical roles like Anne that likes cleaning, and cooking and is the mother hen. And George that is a tomboy, likes to be called a guy, even though tomboy does not mean you want to be a boy. The guys Julian and Dick have no personality.
Semua novel Lima Sekawan menyisakan kenangan indah bagi saya yang waktu itu masih SD/SMP saat membacanya pertama kali. Imajinatif banget menggambarkan kehidupan anak2 di barat karna dulu masih jarang film hollywood yang bisa ditonton.
I read like ten famous five books this weekend because they were a good brain cleanser.
This book is superb☺☺☺☺☺
Ini kisah pertama Jack dan Lucy-ann bertemu Phill dan Dinah. Juga kali pertama mereka mengadakan petualangan di pulau Seram. Selain itu, di sinilah sosok Bill Smug muncul.
My favorite childhood read.
No wonder the series kinda at its end.
Karena keadaan rumah yang sempit dan gaduh, sedangkan kedua profesor tadi tak mau diganggu oleh kebisingan, akhirnya anak-anak mengungsi ke sebuah mercusuar.
Kalau bibi Fanny (ibu George), mungkin agak banyak disebut, tetapi orangtua dari Julian, Dick, dan Anne jarang sekali muncul, bahkan identitas mereka hanya disebut sebagai ibu & ayah saja, tanpa embel-embel nama.
Agak aneh juga sih sebenarnya, kesannya anak-anak lebih sayang pada orang-orang lain yang kebetulan mereka tumpangi rumah / pertaniannya.Ah, apapun, petualangan Lima Sekawan ini pantas sekali untuk dibaca, dikoleksi, dan dilungsurkan.
Betapa antusias saya mendapatkan buku ini dari hadiah lomba di twitter yang diselenggarakan @klubbuku_BGR namun baru saya buka plastiknya tadi siang.Well, membaca petualangan lima sekawan ini seperti memanggil kenangan saya di masa kecil.
Saya suka padanya.Kali ini, mereka berada pada situasi liburan sekolah.
Hal itu membuat George agak cemburu.Suatu hal yang terjadi membuat lima sekawan tak sengaja terdampar di pulau seram.
Dan mengungkap tempat persembunyian harta karun serta sindikat kelompok pencuri jahat.Memang, membaca buku ini tak lagi semendebarkan dahulu, saat saya masih berusia kanak-kanak.
Kemasannya pun lebih menarik dibanding buku saya dahulu yang begitu tua.Saya apresiasi 4 dari 5 bintang.Meta morfillah
George and Timmy visit most days, of course, and then they are asked by a kindly old lady their mother knows if they will go and stay in her cottage with Wilfred, a young boy with a gift with animals.They hear all about Whispering Island, and believe the island is full of undisturbed animals and treasure.
They of course go to the police, but I'm not actually sure in this instance- were the men really stealing things or did they go to prison for trying to lock up the children?
not sure.I still love all of this series, but this book isn't among my favorites.
This used to be my favourite Famous Five story when I was little.
:)I probably didn't enjoy it as much reading it as an adult, as I found myself questioning why on earth such and such would happen in the way it did!
BUT this is a kids book and I think Enid Blyton just cannot be beaten for allowing children to escape into adventure where they are often granted so much independence, amazing foods, and sometimes whole other worlds to explore!
The four children, along with Timmy the dog, are asked to stay at a cottage on the coast, and help look after a young boy. Wilfred seems to me to be a bit of a cross between the two boys in The Secret Garden: spoiled Colin and animal-loving Dickon; but he really turns up trumps in the end. Parts of the plot are reminiscent of other books by this author — a mysterious island, a secret passage, long lost treasure; but the story is still enjoyable.
