https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23.Bryson_s_Dictionary_of_Troublesome_Words
I have it marked and highlighted and handy for reference.
Along with discussions of spelling and usage, Bryson includes many examples of incorrect usage from well-known publications and authors (including his very august self).
(If you're going to screw up, be sure it's intentional.) Not even the experts can agree all of the time on what is right, so Bill Bryson humbly offers us this book as "a compilation of suggestions, observations, and even treasured prejudices." It's worth having on hand if you're a word geek with a lousy memory like me.
I refer to it frequently.
I saved that part of the curriculum for the end of the year, like a desert that you look forward to throughout a long meal.
It would take a pedant to write such a book, and Bryson does not disappoint.
Bryson could look at the four short paragraphs above and find multiple errors in usage.
Bryson's disapproving voice reverberates in my mind every time I write a sentence.2.
If you are the kind of person who will break his back to avoid ending your sentence with one of these offenders (or, like me, even ending with a prepositional phrase), you need to get over yourself.
I might be starting towards lexophilia, but this book is the only dictionary/ thesaurus that I can seriously read.
The only disadvantage is that it tends to make one nervous in one's own writing and want to check everything with Bryson just in case you have just made another almighty clanger.It was given to my by a lovely friend and it has proven to be a delight, you can't categorize it well, it isn't really a dictionary and it's not a thesaurus either.
This book definitely earns a 5 star rating, I'm just not sure who to recommend it to:Professional writers and grammar nerds will love the book's utility; this is a resource I know I'll be returning to often.
What if various countries use the same word in different ways?
The reader should be able to get from A to B with as little resistance as possible, that's what good writing is all about [certainly in journalism, anyway].I could also recommend this book to the non-writers, non-grammar-nerds.
This is a brilliant little book amd a must read/desk companion for professional writers.
Arranged alphabetically, it basically explains correct spellings, etymology and meanings of various words and the mistakes that even lovers of words and writing can make.
He explains the real meaning of condone (which is not to approve or endorse but to forgive - whoops!) and takes his time over who and whom.
He also explains a range of tautologies, redundancies (past history!) and misspellings - basically, the common errors that even the best writers can make.
This is a book that will never stray far from my desk.
I really enjoyed this, but then I do sometimes read the dictionary for fun.
I found Bryson’s expectations of correct usage to be insightful and realistic.
I appreciate his examples of incorrect usage.An example of something I have applied to my own writing is the entry for include.
He writes, "include indicates that what is to follow is only part of a greater whole.
To use it when you are describing a totality is sloppy, as here: “The 630 job losses include 300 in Redcar and 330 in Port Talbot” (Times).
No one ever pointed that out to me before.
I think I'm in love. Be still, my geeky, grammar- and word-loving heart! I had the satisfying experience of coming across entries that reinforced my own pet peeves (e.g. the misuse of 'fulsome,' the confusion of 'tortuous' and 'torturous'). But still more satisfyingly, I learned plenty more that I did not already knew, and also learned explanations for things that I knew only by instinct. Marvellous!
It did take me a long time as I didn't want to read too much at once for fear it would run out of my ears, but I learned a lot and I will be hanging onto this as a reference book for a long time to come.Did you know the phrase is to the manner born, not manor?
If you find this book cursory and wish it were more comprehensive, he's got you covered with Bryson's Dictionary for Writers and Editors.
As this is a reference book, only the most committed logophile will read it from cover to cover.The book has one section, "Troublesome Words", and an appendix, "Punctuation".What makes this guide to correct English stand out from the cluttered shelves of similar books is two things.
That itself leads to the second point — Bryson isn't some grammarian tucked away in the dusty stacks of an overstocked library, he's one of the most skilled and loved writers of modern English.Any writer or logophile will want to add this guide to their collection.
Excellent book. There was much here I just didn't know, and a lot of other material that I might once have known but had forgotten. I actually read through the entire thing, although it would be a great browsing book for anyone who wants to write or who just loves langauge. I got several blog posts out of the interesting material I found within.
A book to dip into and enjoy. Mr Brysons' wit and writing are what bring a potentially bland word book to life.Highly recommended.
What began as a lark as a welcome break for the old noodle after reading some mind-bending books became something much more serious.I like books, words, and books about words.
This was quite a serious, thorough, quite complete run-through of the most common bugaboos that need addressing.I thought Bryson was a bit overstuffy at first, but then realized how useful and relevant all his advice is.
What an organised mind Bryson must have, to be able to put together such a needed collection of information. I would find it hard to believe that a single person exists that wouldn't learn something from this book, I know I've been corrected on several things. I had no idea that Americans use the word 'homely' differently than Britons do, or that we shouldn't say 'I feel nauseous'.Everyone who's serious about writing (especially journalists) should take a look at this book. I assure you that it will improve your writing.
This is not a book to sit down and read from beginning to end. It is more a reference book, and also very good for browsing. Bryson was a copy editor in England in the 1980’s and here he lists common mistakes in usage and spelling, with delightful paragraphs and examples of correct and incorrect sentences. Although I didn’t read it chronologically, I browsed enough to have read practically the whole book, and I enjoyed it. He has written other books about the English language and I will probably search them out at some later point.
I am always reading this type of book to glimpse into the world of those smarties that I believe secretly carry a red felt pen with them to correct the incorrect grammar of the rest of us.I always learn that I have been misusing or mispronouncing some word or another, this makes me think that reading through the book has been validated, until I catch myself using that same word incorrectly again.
This is a charming book on words writers often get wrong, but it misses its target, through no fault of the author. If you know enough to look in this book, much less own it, you probably cared enough to get it right in the first place. It's an okay book to wave in someone's face to let them know just how wrong they are, but that's a nasty use of Bryson's self-effacing, gentle style.
I learned many things from this book. Did you know there is no rule against split infinitives? I was also reminded to just forget about the word 'very'.In fact, I think I'm going to buy this to use it as a quick and easy reference, much easier than using a dictionary or maybe even dictionary.com.
Recommended for people who are already fans of linguistics, grammar, and clear explanations of the rules governing both. Bryson writes clearly and concisely, providing many examples of words which can be troublesome indeed.
This is an actual reference book, so I'm not sure I'll ever finish reading it.
every writer should have this book for reference
I've taken to reading his dictionary."Bryson's Dictionary of Troublesome Words: A Writer's Guide to Getting It Right" was the author's first published book (it has undergone several updates since debuting in 1984).
The standard for American journalism is the Associated Press Style Guide, a copy of which can be found on the desk of every reporter and editor at every newspaper and magazine in the United States.
It is not "The Onion's Dictionary of Troublesome Words." Bryson's career as a professional writer and his experience as a copy editor for two of the world's great newspapers qualifies him as a master of both American and British English and lends his book credibility.
In most cases, Bryson provides examples (mainly from newspapers) of incorrect usage, before telling you how the word should be used.
With some words he is wrong in what he says - for example the word 'hanged' in which a news report of prisoner having been found 'hanged to death in his cell'.
Bryson regards 'to death' as redundant, which it is not since a person can be hanged to near-strangulation - google the definition of 'hanged, drawn and quartered' for evidence of this.
Bryson's definition of 'Nemesis' is vague and not as succinct as that made by Brick Top. Overall, a very interesting book from which I learned much.
This book is very good at what it does - poking sharp holes in journalistic writing whenever there is redundancy, wherever there is rambling and in papers as successful as The Times and The Guardian. It has a very simple layout and could easily be used as a reference for those writing professionally, as well as being very simple to read casually.Probably best received by total pedants (such as those who sneeringly inform you that 'advance planning' is the only possible sort, ha ha) and those in journalism, this was informative, sharp and very funny.
For someone who is as fascinated by the language as I am, and as interested in writing well, this book is useful and more entertaining than it might be expected to be; Bryson's writing is, as usual, stylistically enjoyable.
But for anyone who enjoys his books describing his travels, or other less pedantic works, but who does not share my enthusiasm for correct usage of the language, this book might be considered tedious.
Do not be fooled by the fact that it's written by Bryson, who tells an amusing story in most of his works.
This is a reference book, not a collection of amusing anecdotes.
An enjoyable book about the language and certainly helpful for a copy editor like myself, though some of the things are (or should be) well known to writers and editors, and some are unlikely to come up if you're not British. But I highlighted a lot of things and will keep it at my desk at work as a reference.
A great reference source for most writers. For those not familiar with Bryson's dry wit: this book primarily slaps the wrists of journalists and copywriters more than any other type of writer. If neither of those are your background, you may find yourself rolling your eyes with irritation at some of the entries.
If you love the English language, and if sometimes you pause and wonder whether what you have written doesn’t seem quite right and you spend minutes debating with yourself, this book is a highly entertaining read. This must be the 5th or 6th Bryson book I’ve read.
An interesting and, at times, amusing book which tries to explain the correct use and/or spelling of troublesome words. If you enjoy Bill Bryson's sense of humour, then this could be a book you would enjoy.
Interesting, and I learned a lot from it. Certainly not a book for everyone; he brings to a very dull subject some life.
A guide worth having.
