https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40889.The_Languages_of_Pao
or as the character Finisterle notes: "every language impresses a certain world-view upon the mind."this is the chilliest Jack Vance novel that I've read to date.
all of the Vancean virtues are present - sly, almost subliminal wit; elegant prose; absorbing world-building; an illustration of how easily monstrous egos can blossom into actual monstrosity - but Vance seems disinterested in providing a way for the reader to connect with the story on anything except a purely intellectual level.
it has a cerebral quality that makes it in some ways a superior book to other, more shallow Jack Vance adventures.
Like Vonnegut’s The Sirens of Titan, The Languages of Pao features a power play that is unreliable as the action goes in different, non-formulaic directions.I give high praise for originality and Vance here demonstrates his unparalleled imagination.
I read recently that Vance was best friends with fellow speculative fiction writers Poul Anderson and Frank Herbert.
Whereas Vance fantasies like The Dying Earth and Suldrun's Garden resemble Anderson’s work, this is more like Frank Herbert.
When people speak different languages, their minds work differently and they act differently." In The Languages of Pao, Vance explores such psycholinguistic and semantic issues, especially the "Sapir-Whorf hypothesis."The people on the planet Pao are very docile and resistant to change but hard working.
The ruler of Pao, the Panarch Aiello Panasper wants to create a military so he will not have to pay tribute to those from other planets.
Palafox informs Bustamonte that this can be done but that, "We must alter the mental framework of the Paonese people, which is most easily achieved by altering the language." Thus begins a massive social experiment that dramatically alters Pao society.
Women barely get a look in, and the one woman who does is to some extent a loose thread.I didn't like the book as much this time around, but I've left the rating untouched because of its initial impact, and because it's one of the few examples of Vance preferring concept over mood and setting.All that sounds a bit gloomy, but the fact is I thought this book was tremendously powerful on first read, with a concept that I thought about for years.
Beyond that, it's a well-written Vancian adventure, and that's always worth reading.
Sometimes I think Jack Vance couldn't write a truly bad story if he tried.
A bog-standard 'prince is exiled, prince is raised by evil wizard, prince returns to his kingdom, and after some setback, defeats evil wizard' plot combined with a science fiction hook of "what if the Sapir-Whorf hypothesis is correct?" should not result in such a breezy, fun read.
This is a three-star book if you're not a linguistics nerd nor apt to view no-to-low alien settings through a Warhammer 40,000 lens, and a two-star book if you're NOT enchanted by Vance's style, but I can't for the life of me figure out why this book has been out of print for so long.
It's fun, intelligent pulp, just like the doctor ordered.
Not the best plotted novel in the world, - time is really ill-disciplined within the book, jumping a year in the course of a paragraph, but still lots of fascinating ideas on show here.
A series of planets with variations of humans who have developed their society according to the flexibility or constrictions of their various languages.
The society in focus here, Pao, is very conservative, does not embrace change, accepts its fate phlegmatically, what you'd call passive-aggressive probably.
The introduction of new languages by another planet for its own benefit, leads to the development of military, technocratic and merchant classes where none existed before.
In other reviews, I have noted Vance’s incredible creativity regarding the alien cultures he described.
The Languages of Pao conceives of a people who are so passive that they won’t defend themselves under any circumstances.
However, through the circumstances of the novel, three new languages are formed.
Vance describes the new language as rich in gutterals and hard vowels, helping to mold a people with a very martial attitude (p.
The second new language would be complex, consistent and logical to shape a technological/scientific people (p.
✭✭✭
The visiting techno-wizard Palafox spirits Beran away before he, too, can be murdered by his uncle, and hides him on the world of Breakness.
Beran is enrolled in a course of education on Breakness while his uncle faces a passive-resistant revolt on Pao, and then invasion by a neighboring world of warriors.
Palafox designs a program to transform the Paonese from passive, bucolic serfs centered around changing their language.
Thus begins a three-way conflict between Beran, his uncle, and Palafox, who has his own megalomaniacal plans for the Paonese.Now, I suppose we’re supposed to root for Beran because he’s the viewpoint character, but really, he’s extremely hard to like.
But the treatment is superficial & uninformed—even given the knowledge of language available at the time—& much less interesting than any other such novel I've yet come across.The linguistic concept at issue is this: Perhaps the lexical & grammatical structure of the language we speak has a significant impact on how we are able to perceive—& thus engage—the world.In Vance's planet Pao, the fifteen billion residents are very nearly homogenous, & speak one language which—comprised entirely of noun phrases, void of the dynamism of verbs or the differentiation of adjectives—leads to a passive populace, content to serve a dynasty of autocrats, provided that the ruler doesn't shake things up any.
This is Jack Vance for linguists.The Languages of Pao features a whopping 7 (or maybe 8?) fictional languages.
Vance goes in to great detail, and readers unfamiliar with langauge terminology will be utterly lost.
"Paonese" in particular reminded me of Japanese, with it's fondness of the passive voice and subjectless sentences.
In particular, I enjoyed the description of a tongue touch pad for computer inside the cheek of the mouth - something that I read was being developed for dissabled people in the New Scientist magazine!
The book is great Science Fiction.
Jack Vance is known as a master stylist who, at his best, has an exquisite way with the written English language, a tribute in many ways to his idols P.G. Wodehouse and the unjustly forgotten Jeffery Farnol, among others, but Vance is also a writer of thought-provoking and unique ideas.
The Languages of Pao is Vance at the top of his game as far as exploring unusual concepts.
The premise of the story is based on a theory known as “Linguistic Relativity” or the “Sapir–Whorf hypothesis” and in layman’s terms it basically means that the language a person speaks shapes human thought patterns and behavior, in both individuals and societies.
Vance's central contention, that language shapes culture, is a good one and worth exploring, which is what he does here.
And he then goes on to illustrate the truth of this by showing how the political and cultural landscape of one planet, Pao, is altered by consciously and deliberately altering the language.2.
Aside from this point about language, there's little to be gained from this book.
The plot is essentially Hamlet sans the introspection and the death of all the characters at the end.
There is little character development, little innovation in plot, and little of stylistic interest.
At first glance, there's not a huge amount to this book..
the plot is pretty basic...
displaced royal son has to learn the ways of the world to reclaim his birthright.
There's alot going on underneath, though.
The language thing was pretty interesting, his theory being that the language of a society is part of it's nature, and is part of the brain's development, then puts that theory into practice in the story.
I'm not sure I believe it, but it made sense and made for apretty interesting story.
I can’t help but read this as “The Languages of POW!”. Vance has fun in this novel playing with the Sapir-Whorf hypothesis, but really that’s the side attraction to the usual Vancian loopiness where everything important gets done with “punctilio”. Also present are the standard “elite of amoral supermen” that were so popular in 1950s SF. Vance deflates his supermen, making them rather silly, kind of like Gandalf by way of Hugh Hefner. (I’d posit that Hugh Hefner was a huge influence on 1950s and 60s SF.) Also short. Have I mentioned how much I miss the 50,000 word novel?
I really enjoyed this book in general! It's my first foray into Vance's sci-fi and I'm well, fucking excited! To read more that is!! The concept Vance brings up in the novel is incredible!!!!! I loved it, picked it up this morning and couldn't stop! I recommend this to everyone!!
I liked this one better than the series of the demon princes. Details soon to follow on my blog.
Nice sci-fi Neo-Whorfianism. I sort of doubt the ending because they overvalue the power of language on behavior and undervalue the power of culture. But still, a fun fairly quick read.
When people speak different languages, their minds work differently and they act differently." In The Languages of Pao, Vance explores such psycholinguistic and semantic issues, especially the "Sapir-Whorf hypothesis."The people on the planet Pao are very docile and resistant to change but hard working.
The ruler of Pao, the Panarch Aiello Panasper wants to create a military so he will not have to pay tribute to those from other planets.
Palafox informs Bustamonte that this can be done but that, "We must alter the mental framework of the Paonese people, which is most easily achieved by altering the language." Thus begins a massive social experiment that dramatically alters Pao society.
Die Figur des Paul Burke, der ohne kontrollierenden Nopal auf dem Kopf von seinen Mitmenschen angefeindet wird, hat ihre Parallele im normalen Passanten, der angefeindet wird, weil er mit dem falschen T-Shirt durch die Fußgängerzone geht und damit eine anfeindungswürdige Haltung darstellt.Beide Geschichten sind einfach geschrieben, schnell und einigermaßen interessant zu lesen und geben in der Tat „klassische“ Beispiel der Science-Fiction-Literatur wieder ohne aber inhaltlich zu fesseln.
I decided to give Vance another try, because a lot of people like him.
bland.The only interesting bit about this book is the idea that language influences thought.
That wouldn't stop me from enjoying a story that explores the idea.
Too bad Vance didn't write such a story.
umm, I want to say he was trying to save the culture of Pao or something, but why save something to bland and useless?
Maybe he just hated the other guy and wanted to stop him from making Pao a more interesting place.
Un excellent Jack Vance !On y retrouve ce qui fait tout l'attrait de cet auteur : des planètes étonnantes, des cultures étranges et insolites, des mentalités tellement éloignées de la notre que l'on a du mal à les concevoir.
Mais ici, une nouveauté : la linguistique.
Pour un linguiste, cette analyse peut sembler assez faible car comme toujours Jack Vance reprend les bases et n'embrouille pas son lecteur, il fait dans la simplicité, mais justement, j'ai adoré voir intégrer cette discipline dans un roman de space opera.Sinon, que dire de plus, c'est du pur Jack Vance, rien de bien nouveau à l'horizon, l'histoire est peut-être un peu trop simple, mais, après-tout, le principal intérêt de cet ouvrage n'est pas l'intrigue mis plutôt le méta langage derrière ;)
Tohle mi přišlo jako slabší Vanceovka, ale se zajímavým tématem.
Jak moc ovlivňuje jazyk národ, který jim mluví?
Svět jménem Pao je pasivní a pokud se má ubránit invazním jednotkám, musí nejprve změnit jazyk, kterým mluví - takže se založí enklávy s jazykem určeným k boji i s jazykem vhodným pro vědu a obchod.
pokud se změnil jazyk a uvažování, jsou ještě tihle lidé členy toho samého národa?
Komu vlastně budou zachovávat věrnost?Tyhle téma jsou ale jen nahozené a zase tak moc se z toho nevyvádí a příběh je hodně přímočarý a popisný.
Sapir-Whorf revisitedThis story is mainly based on the strong version of linguistic relativism, that is, that thought and behavior are strongly influenced or even determined by the structure of language. The theory in that form is no longer extremely popular, but this story is a strong development of the hypothesis.Having seen folk with localized brain damage presumably impairing or preventing linguistic processing showing evidence for unimpaired and allegedly unchanged emotional functions and non-verbal reasoning, I’m inclined to doubt the centrality of language to reasoning, but the story is still fun.
In short: very poorly written, a hackjob of Freudian tropes and overt sexism, and a plot incomprehensible by the even the lowest bar I could set as a lover of books. Jack Vance gives us overt sex slavery and rape without ever using either of those words, a planet of "equality" where men dress Normal and women wear harem outfits with bare midriffs, and an Oedipal story that resolves nothing and leaves you wishing you had chosen to spend your two hours reading Reader's Digest instead. Skip this one, friends.
There is so much happening in this book it is difficult to know where to even begin. It appeals to me most because of how much of my time is spent with language. There are some fundamental conceits where various theories of language psychology are being applied at scale, and this make it even more curious to conceptualize the impact of language to manipulate a populace. This goes beyond propaganda and drills down into the fundamentals of how language can define us, bring us together, and isolate us. A challenging and worthwhile read.
Excellent and unpredictable Jack Vance short novel that verges on the Borgesian... in order to 'rewire' the society of a peaceful but victimized planet, an interloper creates several new languages for various populations to speak, which create a military caste, a technician caste, and a overseer caste. A fourth language arises organically. A new ruler is faced with the problem of integrating these factions with the general society of the world they're supposed to be aiding. Odd, heady, and kind of mesmerizing. Plus a very fast read.
Especially cause the edition that i just read is translated to my mother language (portuguese) i got to come across a lot of new words and meanings.
And this narrative in particular is a smooth ride all along, with some trill bumps on the way that make you eager for more, but thats all that it is, cause after that initial shock and surprise theres nothing more, you find yourself constantly waintin for more and you end up kind of disappointed, at least I was, especially at the end.
These days, this would probably be a three-volume epic, but Vance just packed a huuge story in a relatively small book. I rather liked it, though it’s weird that there are no women in the book (except as pawns and decoration) and it’s all very stand-offish. Thanks for another recommendation, Ursula!
This is a tough book to review as it is an early work from a master genre writer.
There are large stretches where one forgets that they are reading about alien races, because despite all the descriptive contrasting, the world feels very familiar.
Also, this isn't the first time I have been exposed to the idea that language changes perception, so it wasn't satisfying to read a story that merely deals with the concept superficially.
But the fact that Vance chose to deal with this idea in the late 50s and produced an entertaining story out of it, is a huge feat in itself.
