https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1391290.Death_of_a_Peer
A prime example of the Golden Age Mystery from Britain between the wars.
Pull out the whole standard toolkit: A slightly-threadbare, to-the-manor-born family finds that being bankrupt puts a real strain on the entire dotty household- Lady, Lord, bairns, domestics, butler & chauffeur.
Even the usual bracing round of Charades won't lift the gloom.
Add some thirties Occultism, wisecracking younger set, and endless cups of tea in the drawing-room.
A truly lurching jolt in the finale sets the conclusion whirring confidently into view.
A splendid time is guaranteed for all.For mystery fans of the classic old school, this is a nice buttered scone at tea-time.
A few years ago New Zealander Roberta Grey met the Lamprey family, a bunch of Micawberish English aristocrats, when she was an adolescent and they were living in her home country.
As counterpoint, we have Alleyn's view of them: "And what the hell," he asks at one point of Fox, "have you been telling that collection of certifiable grotesques about me?"This tension between the two viewpoints of the Lampreys is what gives the novel such great wit: is the trusting Roberta right about the family, or is Alleyn's harder-headed antagonism a better guide?This isn't a perfect detective novel.
This tenth novel in the Roderick Alleyn Series, published in 1941, was also known as, “Death as a Peer.” Roberta Grey first met the Lamprey family in New Zealand, where she grew up.
However, when her aunt is taken ill, the Lampreys come and claim her, whisking her away to stay with them in London.
There is Lord Charles, his wife Charlotte, the children Henry, Frid, Stephen, Colin, Patricia, Michael and a host of delightfully dottily named servants.
Roberta had always been a little in love with Lampreys – a large, charming, chaotic family, who are always on the verge of financial ruin.
There’s stuff to like about A Surfeit of Lampreys; the character portraits, the commentary on the family, the fact that it brings in Bathgate and ties some of that stuff together… but overall, I’ve totally lost my motivation to read Ngaio Marsh’s books.
There’s a same-y feel to them, the characters aren’t nearly as brilliant as, say, Dorothy L.
Sayers’, and it comes out feeling a little too heavy and flat, with not enough payoff.
The mysteries are intricate, but everything just unravels so slowly.I know other people think Ngaio Marsh is amazing, and I did enjoy some of the earlier books, but Inspector Alleyn feels kind of stale now.Originally posted here.
It took forever for the Peer to get murdered!
He finally does get murdered and then it takes even longer for the plot to go anywhere.
I picked up this book primed to fall in love with the dashing Roderick Alleyn.
He seemed a brilliant but much less awkward version of Sir Peter Wimsey...or Sherlock Holmes...or any other detective you may wish to pick.
The majority of this book is endless interviews going over the same things: where the characters were at the moment of the murder.
(view spoiler)[ I wanted him to be the murderer.
There is also something about reading about the time period from a contemporary.A few things, the book about Troy and Alleyn's relationship after the war is somewhat going to suffer from the fact that we actually see shockingly little of it before the war.
If Alleyn doesn't show up until 2/3 of the way through, it doesn't feel like the best detective story.Also, she really likes insta-love.It's also one heck of a case of all the likeable people being innocent and the unlikeable ones being guilty.Oh, and this is perfectly fine, but as I was reading it, I was fairly constantly thinking, "This is not as good as Dorothy Sayers," which is less than ideal.
The Lampreys of the title are a charming but impoverished aristocratic family living well beyond their means.
When ruin threatens, they invite wealthy Uncle Gabriel to visit and put on a party including a game of charades hoping they will have an opportunity to borrow money from him.
Instead, Uncle Gabriel is brutally murdered and suspicion attaches to the family.
Inspector Alleyn must dig beneath the frivolous facade and secret conspiracies of the Lamprey family members to find out the truth.Not my favourite Marsh offering - the so called 'charming' antics of the family quickly become tiresome, especially coming from the irresponsible adult members.
But when Lord Charles Lamprey's rich old brother met an untimely end, the question was raised -- were they also cold blooded killers?"Some words by Shakespeare cue Inspector Alleyn in a case with many strutting players and one star -- a murderer."~~back coverThe famous, beloved mystery writers are famous and beloved for a reason -- they're outstanding at what they do: characterization, description, plotting, wit and skulduggery.
This book is no exception: beautifully limned characters, an almost-closed door plot that had everybody wondering, a chronology where minutes were of the utmost importance but which still left the reader guessing and avidly reading.
Returning to England following some years in New Zealand, they invite the head of the family to their London flat, where they hope to charm him into giving them some money.
I'm fairly sure Marsh didn't mean it that way, and it probably felt different at the time (though if I were reading this during the war and had experienced the hardship of the Depression I don't think I'd have felt very charitable towards them).
It's difficult to read it without projecting 1990s attitudes, but I do hope we have moved on.
Ghastly murder; nothing cozy about it. Entertaining Lamprey family based on real family friends Marsh adored. Nigel makes a brief appearance. Marsh has a real way with her characters; mystery is secondary, but well done. Considering this was published in the1939-1940 era there is very little in the book to suggest the turmoil of Europe and a pending war. There is a passing reference that someone might be "one of them Nazzys."
A Golden Age Mystery replete with poor but profligate aristocrats, dotty aunts, precocious children, sarcastic teens, the credulous journalist Nigel Bathgate, Inspector Alleyn (dubbed "Handsome Alleyn" by the press) and his ever-stolid "B'rer" Fox.
A first-rate mystery! The Lamprey family members are engaging and quirky, the Inspector Alleyn a top notch detective. It was a bit slow going in the beginning but as the murder commenced I was sorely tempted to flip to the ending to find out the culprit, I didn't of course!
Another amazing Ngaio Marsh novel. She is a superb writer with such an engaging style. The characters in this novel are so interesting. Another great read!
In my top 3 Alleyn books. Wonderful.
Alleyn will certainly get his fill of interesting when he manages to work out who coldbloodedly murdered Gabriel Lamprey, Marquis of Wutherwood and Rune with a kitchen skewer while he waited in the elevator outside the family's London top-floor flat.The Lampreys--at least Lord Charles, his wife, and their brood of children--love to sport the eccentric, grand style of the aristocracy.
She arrives just in time for another financial crisis and to witness the family's massive effort to charm Uncle G (as the Marquis is familiarly known) into floating them another loan.
I found the explanation a bit convoluted, and became annoyed at the Omniscient Inspector repeatedly saying things like, "Don't tell me you missed that!" and then refusing to explain, but as I said, it was a light, entertaining read in spite of a few grisly bits.
Mind, somebody in the Golden Age group of authors blithely told the reading public they could lift fingerprints off the inside of a pair of gloves, so...The Lamprey family are like a man I once knew, always poormouthing while doing very well for themselves.
If I read anymore detective novels of this type from this era and I am unable to guess the culprit, I will adopt a new rule of thumb to do so - It was the poor person that did it  - I think it will work well.
There are also several other tropes that you find in older books like this; the locked room scenario, the weighing and reweighing of witness statements which hold the key to break the case and the importance of minutiae like whether the suspects are left or right handed.
All in all, it makes for a mildly entertaining diversion.
When Roberta is happily installed in Pleasaunce Court Mansions, she learns that the formidable Uncle G – and his very peculiar wife Aunt V have been summoned by Lord Charles, whose latest financial crisis is so severe he intends to appeal to his brother to bail him out.
Upon Lord Wutherwood’s arrival a bizarre charade is acted out by the older Lamprey siblings – it wouldn’t be a proper Ngaio Marsh without a nod to her theatrical leanings – before Lord Charles gets around to asking his dour brother for the money he needs.
QUITE engrossing and fun to read with lots of nice little creepiness supplied by Lady V., although the actual solution was not as juicy as I was hoping it would be.
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:Lord Wutherford meets a nasty death at the home of the Lampreys.Roderick Alle
The Lampreys are a family living in new Zealand, who go home to England.
Roberta (Robin) Grey, a young woman who was great friends with them in NZ, comes to England after her parents die.
The Lampreys five children welcome her, and inform her that they are in another financial downturn, which happens frequently due to the family's incapability when it comes to spending or saving money.
The Lamprey family is giddy yet charming, and the characters are well delineated.
According to Marsh's autobiography, the Lampreys were based on a real family she knew in New Zealand, so the Robin Grey character is like Marsh herself.
Thinking myself somewhat of a Golden Age Detective Novel aficionado, I was startled to say the least to only come across Ngaio Marsh a couple of weeks ago and am now working my way through her work. Charming and beautifully written, to the extent where I often find myself smiling with joy at her turn of phrase. Not quite Dorothy L Sayers, but leagues ahead of Agatha Christie. Very warmly recommended indeed.
Amusing, lively family named Lamprey (and the British title is Surfeit of Lamprey's, which made me wonder if I got the correct book when it came through ILL) who are very fun and lackadaisical about their money issues. Mean-spirited uncle is murdered in their home, so they are all suspects. Enjoyable reading.
One of my favourites
Another solid example from the golden age of British mysteries.
Yet there is no mention of the actuality of the Second World War. Including conscription of all men aged 18-41, enacted in September 1939: Henry plans to join up when the war starts, possibly.
Eros ought to have been taken to safety by the time Roberta is taken to Piccadilly Circus.If it were a book written recently by a US author I would have assumed that the author had forgotten that the UK was at war from 3rd September 1939, but that can't apply to Ngaio Marsh.
I think this book contains some of the best secondary characters I've seen in a Ngaio Marsh story so far.
The Lamprey family is charming, hectic, audacious, chaotic, and utterly engaging.
I thoroughly enjoyed this one because of the Lampreys themselves but the plot was also entertaining.
A great deal of my enjoyment in Marsh's books comes from deft turns of phrase and the way she carries through with metaphors and analogies.
Other writers might use the same analogy, but probably wouldn't follow it through to such a perfect conclusion.
I will definitely recommend this story.
I think Marsh must have known a family much like the Lampreys, in order to write their particular blend of personalities so well.There's a particularly hilarious scene where the (upper-crust) Lampreys are all in a room with a police officer, awaiting individual questioning, and they try to get their alibis straight speaking French to each other, assuming the low-class officer won't understand.
What are they thinking?Oh, and he speaks French too.And after that, there's a more deeply funny moment when they get caught and it becomes apparent that the detective knows everything they've been saying the whole time.
Like a Game of ClueNgaio Marsh wrote 32 detective novels featuring Chief Inspector Roderick Alleyn from 1934 through 1982.
This story was tenth in the series, published in 1941, renamed "Death of a Peer" for the U.S. The Lampreys are a tight and spendthrift family, always doing extravagant things but finding ways to get more money when almost broke.
Chief Inspector Alleyn and his associates are tasked with solving the gruesome murder and dealing with the strange but united Lampreys.This is a classic murder mystery where Alleyn slowly gathers facts and we learn a lot about the family.
Roberta “Robin” Grey, a girl from New Zealand, has become star-struck with an English noble family, the Lampreys, who have moved to the island nation for financial reasons.
The family clearly love their creature comforts and frequently live beyond their means because they just can’t seem to envision living the kind of lifestyle required of their income or the unthinkable behavior of getting a job!
Robin has become an honorary member of this family until they get a big inheritance and move back to England.Read the rest of this review and other fun, geeky articles at Fangirl Nation
