https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17689.Franz_Kafka_s_The_Castle
However, his nightmares are never quite what you might expect - expectations are always a problem when reading Kafka, firsst they get in the way and then they get dashed.
This book was never finished and the version I’ve just finished reading ends where Kafka abandoned it, mid-sentence, with yet another new character about to say something terribly important to the central character ‘K’.
There was never going to be a happy ending to this book.That might make it sound like I didn’t enjoy reading it – and that wouldn’t be the right impression to leave you with.
Much has been said about the symbolism in the book; the castle and its complex system of clerks and competences, is often seen as a symbol of the horror of modern bureaucracy, K, the lonely antagonist, stands for the struggle of the individual against the society, theological connotations have been found, etc.
Not only remains the castle mysterious for us, but also K himself.
I actually hope no one will come up with a comprehensible explanation or analysis of this book, because that might destroy the magic around it.

I feel like I've been reading this book for 6 months when in actual fact it has been just under a month and after much struggling and determination I just can't keep reading it anymore and yet a part of me wants to keep reading it even though it's a torment.
I feel as though if I stop reading I'm letting myself down and missing something.
Perhaps it's because I want to know what's so good about Kafka.
These are the longest conversations about the same thing said in a different way every few lines that I have ever read.
The discourse in the villagers interactions is so highly rationale, that Kay (and by extension Kafka) is either completely OCD or savant—and yet, the whole situation itself is utterly absurd: he is in a land he knows nothing about, bearing a title he has no specific skill to justify, and attempting to stand firm as a man, though his perceived status and alliances that change by the hour.The distinguished, utterly absent gentleman of the castle, Klum, whom it becomes Kay’s sole ambition to speak with, is spoken of as if he were an emissary of God. The castle, like Klum, is inaccessible to Kay and yet I have a hunch that if Kay were to gain entrance, he may realize how little distinction there really is between the castle and the village.
It's the first book that I've read through twice in a row since Infinite Jest.
On the other hand, I have to warn anyone who intends to read it that it's likely to drive you insane.
But it's only a fragment of what would have been a much larger entity, ending mid-story, mid-narrative, mid-sentence.
I read it the second time in hopes of gleaning something more from the parts of the story that do exist, and I did pick up on several new subtle details, but that ultimately left me even more frustrated.
In the end, I still think everyone should read it.
This is my favorite book that I've never actually finished. But then Kafka never finished it either.
Reading Kafka's "The Castle" is like being trapped inside the head of a mental patient.
Oblivious as to the nature of the offence the castle is unable to grant a pardon resulting in the father being forced into a position of first having to petition them of his guilt.
The absurd scenario of being forced to confess ones guilt to an entity one has not offended in an effort to obtain a pardon from said entity which is incapable of granting it is reminiscent of the Catholic Church and its confessional and highlights the ridiculous nature of both (though it’s possible Kafka had other allusions in mind).With that one exception, I found the book to be a laborious and dreary read.Note: Reading other GoodReads comments you’ll see that most find the book less than enjoyable, yet consistently rate the book highly.
The picture Kafka paints is a curiously amusing inconvenience, turned Sisyphean nightmare--a man's professional and personal spiral around an unmajestic building representing the constructs of meaninglessness and absurdity.
He could've stopped anywhere, at a short story or a novella, and the story would have held profound meaning to me personally; but as the perfectly unresolved novel that it is, I am grateful that it exists.
To be honest, I'm at a greater loss in reviewing this book than any on my list, because of the meaning it held to me when I read it, and the meaning it holds now--that life is an unresolved journey, and the harder one at odds tries to find his way in, the more elusive and maddening it becomes.
Tako je opet pošao dalje, ali to je bio dug put.
Ulica, to jest ova glavna seoska ulica, nije vodila na brijeg, nego samo u blizinu brijega, a onda je kao namjerno vijugala i premda se nije udaljavala od dvorca, nije mu se ni približavala.
K. je stalno očekivao da ulica skrene prema dvorcu i kako je to očekivao, išao je dalje.
Očigledno, onako umoran on se nije usuđivao napustiti ulicu, a i čudio se dužini sela, koje kao da je bilo bez kraja, stalno iznova kućerci sa zaleđenim prozorskim oknima i snijeg, a nigdje ljudi.Potpuno fikcijsko djelo, bez naročitih prjelaza u začuđujuće, radnja samo teče i teče, a birokracija ostaje.
I am told this is a masterpiece of existentialist and absurdist literature, and the influence on modern art is unmistakable. Having said that, reading Kafka is like watching a prolonged Mentos commercial, it inspires a puzzled frown and the quizzical thought, "Is that German?"
رواية عجيبة جدا.. فهي يمكن أن تفهم على أنها سطحية ومجرد سرد عبثي، وفي نفس الوقت يمكن فهمها بشكل عميق وببعد فلسفي خالص.. هذا يعتمد على كيفية قراءتك لها. فرانز كافكا كاتب له عالمه وتوجهه الخاص الذي يختلف عن كل شيء قرأته مسبقا.قرأت النسخة العربية منها، وهي جديرة بالقراءة.. فرانز كافكا - القصر.
The lexical maestro surprises you with his ingenuity of phrase, or even the piquancy of an oddly apt single word; the master of syntax may not stun you with his phrasings (a car may "swerve" into the next lane, rather than, say, "sharking" into it), but there's something else happening -- to which I'll return below.First, I'd argue that the essential mark of lexical mastery is that it defies or really flat-out rejects successful translation.The easiest way to demonstrate this is to cite a writer whose effects achieved by lexical manipulation -- phrasings, wordplay, the poetics of his word-by-word prose -- would be very difficult to transfer undiminished into another language.
Inspiring book
I would like to read more about how Foucault has been influenced by Kafka, as this book serves almost as a case study for the definition of power that Foucault seeks to provide in his work.
The Klamm character, setting up an unidentifiable, unknown Real, is also beautifully described, especially in the paragraphs where Olga pictures the transformations in his appearance depending on where he is, like an animal that makes every use of camouflage.
It is a tribute to his skills as a writer that one can sit and read his books, and be enthralled, although nothing ever happens in any of them.
Kafka drags his reader through a world that makes no sense, and with each page as a reader your frustration and impatience grows at the circumstances the main character finds himself in.
The pleasure of his stories is not what happens, because nothing does in the perpetual circle of frustration, but in the imagery Kafka creates as the reader rides this merry-go-round.
Simply put, if you like Kafka, you'll enjoy this book.
If you like challenging books, you'll enjoy this book.
I'm a huge lover of Kafka but I was somewhat bored by most of this book, even though the general concept and backdrop is intriguing in its very Kafkaesque fashion.
One must remember the book was not published, so unlike most literature, it suffers from the lack of polish that we would find had it been edited or intended for publication.
The book is interesting enough for its originality, with the setting of an obscure and enigmatic village where the main character K has arrived on official business on account of the all-powerful and mysterious "Castle".
And unfortunately the book, not only unpublished, is also unfinished.
The fact that Kafka died before he resolved the plot made this novel more of a mystery to me.
The plot is slow; a man enters a city and wishes to speak to the head of the castle, yet cannot seem to break through the bureaucracy to even get a foot in the door.
Towards the end of the novel, he actually seems to be getting somewhere (although not through the proper channels) and it abruptly cuts off as it gets to the good stuff!
I felt that the main character's struggles are so analagous the the everyday struggles we face in dealing with our government that I was really hoping to see what happened.
Kafka Qesr.Eyer bu kitabi anlamaq isteyirsizse evvel Mehkemeni bitirmelisiz ve Kafkani sevmelisiz.Kitab qeliz yazilib hemisheki kimi. :)Men basha dushduyumu deyim siz belke oxuyub ferqli anladiz.Burda sohbet geden ve gorunmeyen Qesr mene ele gelir dovletdir.Adi tam cekilmeyen ve gorduyu ish tam bilinmeyen ne ish tapshirsan onu goren K ise o dovletin yolunu tapmaqa calishan ancaq hec bir shey ede bilmeyen ezimkar bir xarakterdir.Kitabin bashindan sonuna qeder Qesre geden yolu tapmaqa calishir.Qarishiq kitabdir bir balaca.Kitab deyir ancaq meni temiz ve rahat bashla oxu. Ela ! :)
The castle is again a marvellous product of the taverns of arcanity kafka had ventured into, as is reflected from the character who decides to fight something which he is unable to understand. The castle functions as a non-interpretable institution with unexplainable functions as it increasingly serves an apathetic and insensitive bureaucracy. It is a timeless classic and is still very applicable in today's time. The movie Brazil also went along similar lines exploring similar issues
This and Trial are extremely helpful in understanding social and work life. What's great about both of them is that you can never pin down them down to a particular allegory. You read and say, "Oh this is obviously about relating to God" and then that seems untrue, that it's about ambition and how modernity destroys the individual, and more interpretations emerge. Like fairy tales. Only problem is the paragraphs are so enormous I get squirmy.
Really about defense lawyers trying to get to Gitmo.
I could read anything by Kafka even his shopping list
مساح گم شده ...
مسیح گمراه در سیستم سرمایه داری افراطیست ...
هر لایه از قدرت لایه ای دیگر از قدرت را صدا میزند و این لایه ها بی نهایت و بی معنیست ...
هر نقش در این سیستم و هر انسان در این سیستم و هر شی در این سیستم در حال فراخوان و اشاره به هسته ای است که در مرکز قصر زنده است و دستور میدهد و میچیند و مساح در کوشش شناخت هر نقش به نقشی دیگر و لایه ای دیگر میرسد در حالی که ان لایه نیز رد لایه ی بعدیست ...بعد از ورود هیچ خروجی از قصر ممکن نیست ...
As a government employee, I found this infuriatingly familiar. Kafka perfectly encapsulated what bureaucracy feels like from the inside. Truth be told, I did not finish it. I just assumed he dies without finishing the quest, an ending for which there was much foreshadowing. The repetition was so familiar from my own life, I couldn't continue on, lest I forget what was real and what was the book.
Hjjj

I felt as if Kafka said much in this book about nothing.
It is true, Kafka enjoyed writing about situations.
Kafka gave up finishing the piece for a reason.
Anyone who has ever worked for any type of business in America (or anywhere in the world for that matter) knows the painful and very unpleasant situations one is faced when dealing with bureaucracy and unreasonable supervisors.The only reason I give 3 stars here is because of the overall story.
Kafka’s writing will always be a 5 for me, but if he had made an effort to make a catchy story, I’d rate it 5.
Getting lost and staying lost is the whole idea of the book, and a matchless symbol for how, according to Kafka, we really feel underneath, when we momentarily convince ourselves that we know what’s going on, while still suspecting that the momentary conviction might be part of the deception.”I took Clive’s advice and got lost.I really like The Castle.
(I feel this way about The Great Gatsby and Catcher in the Rye.)Reading The Castle was like watching a really weird, exotic-but-not-necessarily-pretty flower bloom very slowly.
It’s my opinion that things are best when
Gonna say America didn't really count, and this is my first Kafka?So my chief discovery with this novel is that it's impossible to read it in a public setting without feeling like some kind of intellectual poseur.
"Like, Kafka?
And the driver taking rambling jaunts across the city, listening to every instruction from my uncle smiling and nodding and totally ignoring him.
And my uncle having no idea where they were, or why they were taking a radically different route to work each day, and whether it was saving time or he was just being fucked with.
