https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1400512.Temples_Tombs_Hieroglyphs
Adding "a popular..." to the title perfectly describes this and lets the reader know they're about to embark upon a light reading.Giving you the entirety of Ancient Egypt's imperial history and more, Temples, Tombs & Hieroglyphs seems to spend more time on its subtitle rather than the main.
The history of Egypt is, after all, rather sketchy.
Temples, Tombs & Hieroglyphs is not the most scholarly of works on the subject.
Barbara Mertz got her degree in Egyptology back in the '50s, then spent much of her subsequent time writing mystery fiction.
This is the most irritating & frustrating non-fiction work I have read in some time. It can't decide if it's a history of Egypt, a history of Egyptian archeology, or a gossipy history of people studying Egyptian history. The author's lame attempts at sarcastic side-bars don't help one bit. It contains some interesting information, but it's in no way a cohesive read. Very disappointing.
This is a very fun, absorbing, quick history of ancient Egypt.
Could be a great way to introduce Egyptian history to a child.
Also, for fans of Amelia Peabody, it's fun to see where Barbara Mertz (pen name is Elizabeth Peters) has developed her theories and interests in the realm of historical fiction.
And yes, there are a couple historical mysteries too...On the flip side, I can't agree with every theory in here.
But Barbara Mertz writes forthrightly and with no attempt to brainwash you into accepting her particular theories.
This book took longer than it all should have as I would turn it on to listen to when I went to bed, and I would fall asleep and then have no idea where I lost consciousness.
Listening to this book is a lot like having a class taught by a fun, albeit eccentric, professor.
I have no idea what Barbara Mertz looks like, but I have decided to cast her as Professor Sprout only with more scarves.
Needs more scarves.The book is quick moving--assuming you don't fall asleep repeatedly--and a fun listen.
If you want a book that could be an introduction or refresher course on Ancient Egyptian history that's both informative and entertaining, I can only recommend this.
This is a book very much about the Egypt of the (dynastic) pharaohs, so if you want detailed information about the Greco-Roman period and it's personalities, it's best to look elsewhere.
I've always found the Greco-Roman period and even Cleopatra dull by comparison to the earlier times, so I'm not disappointed at all.I could complain about the lack of detail given to some periods or pharaohs, but with 3,000 years of history to cover, it would be nitpicking.
A good and somehow entertaining book that tries to condense the complex and long history of pharaonic Egypt and the many ancient dynasties. The book is very well researched and the narration (for Audible version) is quite fitting, I found it entertaining but a little scattered at big portions of it, especially with the rapid description of the following dynasties.Even if you are a history lover, you may still find the book quite dull at parts, so I would recommend it only if you are really into your 'Egyptian history'
My interest was sparked in Ancient Egypt after taking my daughter to watch 'The Mummy' and subsequently reading Bob Brier's book 'The Murder of Tutankhamen'.
As it has been previously noted by other reviewer's this book is somewhat dated (orginally published in 1964) but that does not detract from the wonderful narrative that the author weaves around the Pharaohs and their place in history.The author does not get bogged down in technical details and you never lose interest in the story.
Overall I would recommend this book to anyone who wants to obtain a decent overview of Ancient Egypt.
I personally like a lot of organization to help me keep the timeline and all the names straight when reading history.
On that note, putting a smaller, more detailed timeline corresponding to the content in each chapter at the beginning of the chapter would have made a big difference for me.
The author touches upon not only the names of the kings and descriptions of their tombs and temples; but on the political and religious climates of different periods, archaeologists and their discoveries, and charming stories and writing straight from Ancient Egypt itself.
Key characters are introduced throughout and their stories, as much as is known, are told in a lively and personal manner.

If you are seriously interested in the minutiae of Egyptian scholarship then this book is probably going to seem pretty once-over-lightly. If you are like me, and know the basic outlines, this is going to be just your dish. It was for me. Mertz, who also wrote as Elizabeth Peters and Barbara Michaels --- historical thrillers/supernatural thrillers --- also was an Egyptologist of no mean credentials or ability. But because she was also a first-rate writer, she introduces the reader to the basic outline of ancient Egyptian history in wonderful prose. I loved reading this.
This book was first published in 1964 (with at least one revision, I think) so I'm not sure if the archeology parts remain current.I liked the writing style, it was more story-telling, than dry facts. The author wrote the Amelia Peabody series (as Elizabeth Peters) which I loved. Some of her style came across in this non-fiction book.The "history" parts were good, but because there was so much history, she doesn't really cover any thing in-depth.
4/5 stars. An in-depth look at all of the rulers of Egypt, with a fair amount of sass and sarcasm. It did drag at times and eventually the names started to blur together, but overall it was one of the most entertaining books on history I've read.
Very interesting. Told with personality and enthusiasm.
It must have taken years to write this book, not only because of the sheer amount of research that would have had to be done, but also because of the amount of text, of passages that the author no doubt would have had to cut.
I only mention this because I had no idea who Barbara Mertz was when I was checking the book out of the library.
Absolutely amazing, hilarious lady!- She kind of skimmed intermediary periods (and I think justly so, since they are such a mess), and didn't go too deep into very complicated concepts (hence "popular history" title).
Barbara also openly admitted to favour some dynasties over others, thus spending more time on certain events, but the book was her playground, so I can hardly hold it against her.
Barbara Mertz focused primarily on true Egyptian history, so most of her extensive information ended with the fall of the New Kingdom.
A wonderful, entertaining read.
I recommend this book to anyone who has an interest in learning an overview about ancient Egypt.
The narrative reads as a story told by a storyteller or oral historian who brings the culture, customs and the era to life.
There are even photographs and sketches of the artifacts and of the tombs as well as maps and diagrams.
While reading the book I found it helpful to look up the sites and tombs on Google images as a reference to help visualize them even though Ms. Mertz’s enthusiastic descriptions are very thorough and well-written.
A lively, gossipy overview of Ancient Egyptian history and the archaeological adventure and discoveries that uncovered it. Mertz writes like a favorite professor: witty, knowledgeable and prone to digressing into diverting anecdotes. She admits her biases freely and acknowledges that so much of what we "know" about Egyptian history is based on scholarly and non-scholarly speculation. I am reading her book Red Land/Black Land next which focuses on daily life in Ancient Egypt. This book covers more of the traditional history of rulers including a tantalizing look into the life of Queen Hatshepsut.
When I visited these areas the tour guide spoke with great certainty about everything.
Come to find out almost everything is subject to question.
Mertz is clear on what has been established, and what is theory.
The time, energy and research put into Egyptian archaeology opens new avenues of doubt and make facts more and more elusive.Mertz warns at the beginning that this is not a text nor a complete history.
She says it is an collection material that she finds interesting.
Mertz hits her stride with Hatshepsut and keeps the narrative strong through the end.Comment
This is another revamped recently and re-released non fiction by Barbara Mertz.
This one is more about the ruling history and rulers of ancient Egypt.
I read it about 6 months ago or so and really enjoyed it.
In typical Barbara Mertz style she writes about ancient Egypt with much knowledge and humor.
I would again recommend this book to anyone who has even the vaguest interest in Ancient Egypt.
I may even re-read it in preparation for my big trip in November.
(We’ll see though, my reading list is quite staggering without it.):)
Mertz, more recognizable under her nom de plumes Elizabeth Peters or Barbara Michaels, offers up a gossipy, fascinating history of Egypt.
Don't let the tone fool you - she's got the Ph.D. to back her up, as her occasional, inevitable digressions into Lists of Names You'll Never Remember proves.
She's set herself a monumental task, attempting to cover five millennia of history in just over 300 pages, but she attacks it with relish and wit, and has the grace to admit when she's being particularly spotty.
An entertaining read for history buffs, those fascinated with things Egyptian, or casual fans of her Amelia Peabody series.
Barbara Mertz, long known for her thrillers under the two pseudonyms Barbara Michaels and Elizabeth Peters, has finally come out with a non-fiction book on her speciality, Egyptology. This is an imminently readable work, taking the reader through a history of all the dynasties and Kingdoms that are thousands of years old. This is an incredible book -- and extremely accessible to virtually anyone with an interest in the Ancient Egyptians.
An excellent read! This book was published roughly four years before she ventured into fiction writing but her sense of humor and skills as a writer show through in this non-fiction over-view of Egyptian history. It would be another ten years before she would publish her first Amelia Peabody mystery but this book shows a lot of sources of inspiration for the series.
This is a fine introduction to ancient Egypt from pre-history to the Roman conquest and to Egyptology by a University of Chicago Egyptologist also known, under the pseudonyms Elizabeth Peters and Barbara Michaels, as a novelist.
Question: Is it possible to write a breezy, downright gossipy, yet highly informative history of ancient Egypt?
Answer: It must be, because Dr. Barbara Mertz (AKA Elizabeth Peters) did it with this one.Maybe it's because I "read" this one on Audible -- with a narrator whose voice reminded me of Amelia Peabody -- or maybe it's because I've been feeling guilty about owning the print edition for years without reading it.
I've read quite a bit on Egyptology, & have been to Egypt myself once, but I found quite a bit of new material in this very accessible history.
I've added Mertz's Red Land, Black Land to my wish list, too.
This book seems to be as much about archaeology/Egyptology as it is about ancient Egypt.
The author jumps back and forth between the two as if she can't decide which - with occasional digressions about science, trends in modern historiography, linguistics, the personal lives of archaeologists, and advice for tourists.
Her attempts to be "folksy" are interspersed with French and German phrases and mostly come off as trying to hard.
She obviously does know her material; I just found her delivery off-putting.
Most of her humor felt labored as well, although her account of the well-documented (mis)adventures of Wenamon, a priestly messenger, was amusing.
Very readable.
Hangs Egyptian history on the story of its rulers and, for the most part, avoids turning it into a story of archaeological digs.
She does, though, cover some of the wrangling between scholars to make the point of how much guesswork and uncertainty goes into what we think we know.
She covers 5,000 years of history in 309 pages, all the way up to Cleopatra, but half of it is about three centuries: the -2500s, -1400s and -1300s, the glory days.
But she zooms through the last thousand years in just 26 pages :-(
This wasn't what I had hoped for: a less-dry version of ancient Egyptian history. I wanted a book focused on the architecture and the writings and the lives of the larger figures of history, but this leaned heavily on chronologies of dynasties and names without stories and battles and less like a guidebook of what was (or is) in the Upper and Lower Nile regions and why. My understanding of the 20+ dynasties that ruled is more complete, as is my appreciation for the challenges faced by Egyptologists the last two centuries, but I felt a lot was missing.
This is an entertaining overview of ancient Egypt for the layperson. I especially appreciated the fact that Mertz describes multiple possible interpretations of the evidence and controversies among experts, and lets the reader know when the conclusions drawn by Egyptologists are uncertain. She describes the archaeological process and the importance of different disciplines to piecing the past together. Very worthwhile.
A witty skip through Ancient Egypt, delightful and amusing. Although I was a tad disappointed that the Ptolemy dynasty only got a page in the whole book! But, as the author says, she covers the bits that interest her, which is fair enough!
Elizabeth Peters--PhD EgyptologistBarbra Mertz, author of both the Vickie Bliss and the Amelia Peabody series was indeed an expert on ancient Egypt. This very readable history of the land of the Nile is very readable and entertaining
