https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149847.Mort
I have always been curious about Death DEATH.
One day Death chooses himself an apprentice, who goes by the name of Mort, someone who can be trained up in Deaths duties and then maybe even take over (and more besides).
A very interesting plot and its great to be able to read about death and find his personality rather interesting and growing into a proper character.
The book includes a few familiar characters - if you have read a number of Pratchets books, and if not there will of course be introductions made.
Mort is a fabulous book.
Mort introduces the title character, Mortimer or "Mort," a hapless young space cadet whose own parents write him off as useless and send him to be an apprentice.
When he is chosen by Death, though, he delves into a fantastical world of flying horses, takeout curry, and a strange kind of romance with Death's adopted daughter.
Fabulous characters, as always: Death, so very fascinated with humans; Ysabell, his daughter, a skeptical, bossy, stubborn young woman braver than anyone; and Mort himself, who grows from a fumbling apprentice to a proper Death-in-training.
A simply breathtaking character, a breathtaking plot, a breathtaking book.
I've enjoyed most of Pratchett's quirky, satirical, fantasy books but I've enjoyed the ones with Death as one of the main characters the best. They are laugh out loud funny, especially if you listen to audiobook version. The reader is excellent. In fact, I recommend you listen to one on audiobook first. Once you hear it you'll understand my recommendation. Death has a unique voice and the reader "puts it in your head" nicely!
A brilliant book that made me laugh and cry at Morts new life which had benefits and, as he learned, drawbacks. A quality, simple and at the same time intense story about an adopted boy whom death was his tutor.
Although this book was definitely very interesting, I didn't understand who some of the characters where and what was happening at times in the story. One thing is for sure though, I'm really excited for middle school to be doing this play this year :)
amazing :D the character 'Death' is by far my favourite in the Discworld series
Recommended by my 24 year old son. I have laughed aloud at everything I've ever read by Pratchett. I like and care about the characters and their hijinx are second to none.
so good i wrote a poem about it...
This was the first Discworld novel I read, and I hold a particularly soft spot for it. How many times have I read it? NO idea!
I really want to read the rest of disc world and read the actual book of this.
Some of the blocks of dialogue are very memorable and lines that could be written in fina caligraphy.
There is a charm to this book, and I think that it has become my gateway into Terry Pratchett.The reasons I have read this play is actually because in August I am performing as Ysabell with a local theatre company.
I'm happy I decided to do this play because I am very much enjoying it.
My love for the novel currently may be bias by me being a part of a staging.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
My first play and such a fun show to do. 100% recommend.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
Missed a few great things from the novel but is a great adaptation.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
Additional reading with regards to the Discworld Universe
This was the first book I have read by Terry Pratchett, my initial plan was to just read the "Death" books, but now I am going to have to read them all! Mort is a likeable but clumsy teenager whose dad decides he needs to start working and get an apprenticeship, Death himself turns up and offers Mort a chance to go and learn his trade, which is where the adventure begins.The book is well written, humorous and kept my attention throughout, I would highly recommend this book to anyone looking for something fun to read.
I read a bunch of Terry Pratchett's Disc World books a few years ago. Each was consistently funny, insightful, and entertaining and this admittedly generic review applies to all of them. I don't think of Mr. Pratchett strictly as a fantasy author. He skillfully writes about the same themes around which writers have been framing stories for centuries; loyalty, greed, cruelty, and compassion just to name a few. He just so happens to write about them in the magical setting of Disc World. Check out his work if you haven't already.
Fabulous!!!! Hysterically funny..... as is all Terry Pratchett. I will be re-reading this one (and many others in the Disc World series). I've recommended his books to many a stranger sitting and waiting for various doctors appointments. I just can't keep myself from laughing out loud. It never fails that at least one person asks me just what is so darn funny. Well...... read for yourself. You WON'T be disappointed.
The play was actually pretty faithful to Terry Pratchett's book of the same title. I understand that the length had to be cut down due to theater time constraints, but they didn't leave out any pertinent parts of the storyline. I would love to actually see this preformed at some point, although I'm not sure if there are any theaters close to where I live that would be amenable to attempting it. It was a great adaptation though, and if you can see it, I would highly recommend attending.
Definitely not the best book of Sir Terry, but still a fantastic one (probably because it was written by an excellent autor). I love the way Pratchett explains people's soul comparing Mort and Death. The book is full of energy and mistery and it is only the first of theese incredible stories about Death, which are in my oppinion his number ones. I regret that I couldn't get all of the jokes in it(I read the original version), this might be the reason why it isn't one of my favourite books.
A very disapointing play. It read essentially like a cliff notes version of Terry Prachett's excellent novel. It makes it out of one-star territory merely on the strength of the source material (some of which was lifted directly into the dialouge, word for word). An interesting play is most certainly hiding in Prachett's Discworld series, but Stephan Briggs has not found it.
Good book! I really really love DEATH! I love all the things he says when he turns up, his rather naive view, I love the thought of him galloping around on Binky....love Albert doing all the chores and constantly cooking a fry up. Very good...great humour. Not too sure about Mort himself...but DEATH is the star, in this and all the other books...particularly the Hogfather!
We're going to be doing this play at my university this semester, and I am really looking forward to it. I think that the adaptation Stephen Briggs made is quite good, all the essential parts of the book are there, and it's still funny. It was also good to get a bit of a break after the more depressing books I've been reading recently.
I enjoyed this. It is an adaption of the novel, Mort, by Terry Pratchett. I read the novel, Mort, years ago and the play has been in my TBR pile for awhile. I hope that this will someday be made into a movie like many of the other Discworld novels. Brigg's adaptation could be used in this regard.
