https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50838.Assignment_in_Eternity
Four of Heinlein’s stories from the 1940s were collected into this surprisingly good anthology and published together in 1953.I say surprisingly, not because I expect anything less from Heinlein, or that I think his earlier work is substandard (far from it) or that collections are an inferior vehicle (again - far from it, I am after all a fan of Bradbury, le Guin and Poul Anderson).
Reminiscent of several Poul Anderson stories.“Elsewhen” is a weird little sketch, contextually fittingly placed here, about extra dimensional and time travel.
And yet I am still trying to read most of his works.)This is a collection of four of his early short stories -- Gulf, Elsewhen, Lost Legacy, and Jerry Was a Man -- and really the only horrifying thing (other than the gender roles, which, okay, mostly aren't his fault, come on, it was the 30s or 40s) was the bit where I was expected to root for the supermen with superpowers and think they should automatically get to run the lives of us lesser mortals.
The hero meets a super-chick that he develops feelings for.Then there's this evil old multi-zillionaire lady who lives in a mansion somewhere on the Moon, and is planning to do something bad.
Which, it turns out, is just enough time to get into telepathic contact with the the hero, whom of course she loved all along, and read through the marriage ceremony.
In the final scene, Gail, the super-chick, has just tortured an old lady to death.
Love the endings to these short stories!
Worse than just "dated."Heinlein may have been one of the first to try to get pulp readers to try to think, what with statements like "Man is not a rational animal; he is a rationalizing animal," but that doesn't mean he's worth reading today.
I liked what I read of his work when I was a teen, but I outgrew him, and I wish the rest of SF fans would, too.Except for the last story.
Jerry Is a Man. It's almost, in many ways, a 180 degree enlightenment from all the other Heinlein that I've tried to enjoy these last several years.
His juvenile work is wonderful, as are some of the novels published just after the Scribner’s period.The collection The Green Hills of Earth proved Heinlein’s skill at crafting stories in the short format, so I was very curious when I put this on my Christmas wishlist to venture into some of Heinlein’s early work.That curiosity resulted in four rewarding journeys into the early imagination of the Dean of Science Fiction, Robert A.
Some of my favorite reading back in the day was "golden age" science fiction that I had found a stash of in the thrift store of the tiny town I grew up in.
Much of that gold was from the pen of Heinlein, and reading this was like going home for summer vacation.
like in the stories Lost Legacy and Elsewhen (another favorite author of mine, Philip K.
Dick writes along these themes,too) can seem a little dated, but the human hope in these stories is as inspiring now as it was then.
Gulf was my favourite of these 4 stories.
It's a science fiction/spy thriller centred around the idea that some homo sapiens have evolved to become "homo nova", capable of superhuman intellect, speaking in an advanced language and can memorise almost anything.
It has a really tragic ending but it was great fun to read.Elsewhen was my least favourite of them all, it's about a group of student who travelled to different dimensions following their professor's hypnoticism.
It's soft science fiction with rather bland characters and a predictable storyline.Lost Legacy was similar to Gulf, but it focused on ESP which everyone could learn.
The last book is Jerry was a Man (1947) which looks at genetically engineered intelligent creatures.
Heinlein annoyed me in Stranger in a Strange Land and in these books because he seems to only see women as partial equals to men with a roll of marriage and childbearing, but if you look at the dates of these works, you realize that he was ahead of his time.
In these books women have equal abilities and opportunities but of course the women still want marriage and children.
It also is ahead in looking at Biotech.
1 Gulf Nov-Dec 1949 Astounding - Joe Greene, disguised as Captain Gilead, steals doomsday weapon plans, fights, escapes.
2 Elsewhen starts with silly klutz cop Sgt Izowski babbling to Chief about Prof Arthur Frost, vanished when taken in for questioning about disappearance of five students after his study group.
Everyone has identifying qualities - slow plod Izowski, metaphysical Prof, Christian Martha, brave loyal Bob, daring clever Helen, pretty passive Estelle, single-woman Howard.
Some of these stories have aged better than others. Some of them are kind of cheesy, but no more than a modern Doctor Who episode. If you’re starting with Heinlein start somewhere else.
What better way to make the best plot possible than to read all the Heinlein I haven't yet burned through?
Besides, this book of four novellas included Gulf, which he wrote as part of the famous "Time Travel" issue of...
The last story, Elsewhen, was the purest "thought experiment" of the set, and came the closest to fantasy.These were all written when Heinlein had high hopes for hypnotism in unlocking the potential of the mind (hypnosis is the key that starts things in two of the stories).
For Heinlein fans, it's worth the time.
It's easy to think that characters like this are just rip-off from James Bond, but then when you work it out this story (as was Puppet Masters) published several years before Ian Fleming's first book, Casino Royale.The 2nd story, Elsewhen, is about a professor and his students that discover a means to travel to alternate universes.
I thought the story and characterization was a little weak.Overall I would recommend this book if you're a fan of Heinlein and looking to read some stories of his that don't really fit in anywhere else.
The novellas relate to secret ubermensch society; the two shorts are apparent one-offs, involving respectively interdimensional travel and bioengineering.
The first novella is a spy narrative, wherein a master infiltrator is inducted into the secret society in order to stop some rich greasers from blowing up the earth with the ultimate weapon.
The second novella involves some academics who are inducted into the society by Ambrose Bierce and are used to democratize prana-bindu techniques; they are resisted by rich greasers, who are led by a "creature" in a "wheelchair" that controls unions, commerce, and religious fundamentalists (166); not sure if that's supposed to be FDR or what.
Enjoyable, but nothing special as far as Heinlein goes.
The first novella bears striking similarities to Friday - not necessarily the overall thrust of the story, but many of the trappings (secret agent is followed, captured, freed, taken to a farm where s/he learns to embrace his/her full potential.) The second novella I liked more - it had an odd touch of mysticism, for Heinlein, although many other of his common themes.
And the two short stories that comprise the rest of the book were enjoyable to read, but probably won't linger in my memory.
I'd say read it if you love Heinlein.
It's just that many of the same points he has made, and made better, in other books.
Heinlein, as usuall, make quick entertaining stories where he explores ideas with very similar characters. I think that he might have been pretty progressive when it came to women in his stories, but the still feel very dated today. Not one of his best, but a good quick read if you like mr Heinlein.
A fairly good set of four stories, or two novellas and two short stories. Read about Gulf in the afterword for Glory Road, and immediately sought it out (I plan to re-read Friday sometime soon). Enjoyed Lost Legacy quite a bit also.
"He was a yellow man, but he was white inside" still makes me cringe, which may be why it has apparently been removed from later editions of Sixth Column.The use of the word "shyster" in the Jerry story itself is also an interesting example of the casual racism that was, I believe, quite common throughout much of the United States in the 1940s.Anyway, I can't shake the thought that Heinlein was basically saying that African-Americans presumably responded because as a chimpanzee Jerry either looked more like them than any other racial group (in his, i.e. Heinlein's opinion), or was somehow closer to them.
After being trained in their ways, he undertakes a mission to stop a weapon of mass destruction."Elsewhen" - A university professor engages five students in an experiment to travel to across space and time merely by the power of hypnotism, opening portals to strange and distant worlds, one of which is engulfed in war with an alien race while the other is a serene  paradise of godlike beings."Lost Legacy" - A physician, a psychologist, and a parapsychologist manage to tap into their latent abilities of clairvoyance, telepathy, levitation, and telekinesis.
Soon after, they find themselves drawn to Mount Shasta in Northern California where they encounter a group of mystics who have long ago mastered such abilities and are waiting for the right opportunity to reveal themselves to the world in the hopes of setting humanity on a path to enlightenment.
From the idea that there are already supermen with faster reflexes and better brains amongst us in a fight to preserve the Earth from some of the more crooked of the supermen or even just evil; on over to can an anthropomorphic animal that has been given some human traits such as basic speech and reasoning be considered a human.
All of these stories the are interesting and present some ideas on the later reasoning of Heinlein's multiple worlds as one sort of theme.
The whole idea of what makes a man and can an animal with speech patterns and some thinking be a human, seems to be similar to one of the "Planet of the Apes" movie plots as well as a couple of other classic Sci-fi novella plots.
La humanidad en su máxima expresión de su propia evolución.La primera historia es un poco desconcertante, pues parece que fue escrito en su primera mitad para un género concreto y luego cambia y te razona la teoría del superhombre, así como la necesidad de permanecer ocultos y proteger a la propia humanidad de sus malos malísimos.
Es un poco desconcertante, pero con la explicación final, todo se acalara.La segunda para mi es la mejor de las tres historias, el descubrimiento del propio hombre, de dentro hacia fuera, luchando para hacer entender a la sociedad los cambios a los que nos hemos acostumbrados, imponiéndonos nuestra propia venda en los ojos, negando, ya sea por propia decisión o por conspiración de terceros.
This new group believes a race of supermen capable of thinking at a superhuman level will become the new leading species on the planet.
They want to train these adepts to bring peace to the world.Elsewhen: A college professor discovers the key to interdimensional time travel.
Anyway, he teaches 5 students the skill and they all have various adventures in time and space.Legacy Lost: A college professor, a surgeon, and a student discover that all humans are capable of things like ESP, telekinesis, flight, and anything involving mind over matter, if they exercise the right portion of their brain.
Assignment in Eternity contains several of Heinlein’s works, but Lost Legacy stands above the rest, and is the focus of this review.
If you are a writer, or want to be, you should seek out Lost Legacy because Heinlein puts on a clinic in how to write.
Beware though, to enjoy the story you have to keep reminding yourself that in 1941 the functions of various parts of the brain were unknown and that our relatively full complement of pre-human ancestors had not yet been dug up.
Copies of Assignment in Eternity are not hard to find in used bookstores.
For an agonizingly full review, see http://sydlogsdon.com/2016/05/12/148-...
His best stories involve people who are a cut above the rest of the human race.
Again, a very entertaining story.Lost Legacy: This time there are bad guys who are also "talented" and our intrepid heroes have to fight them for control of the human race.
What's not to like?Jerry Was a Man: This time the monkey is smarter than he looks, but it will take a human shyster to save him.
The fun is in the method.I liked all four stories and was always upset when each was over.
I wish I could write like Heinlein does.
Listened to on CD. All the stories are great. Gulf is surprisingly deep and seems to get some things right for the coming future. The pacing and james bondish feel long before that became popular is surprising and fun as well. Jerry was a man is my favorite. I recall reading it in Jr. High. Probably around 1980. The little argument between Jerry and the dwarf elephant over the stereo had me laughing out loud.
This collection was a pretty rough read. "Lost Legacy" is the longest story; written in 1941, it predated John Wyndam's the Crysalids by 14 years. Deals with the persecutions of psychics who try to organize. Read up on Mount Shasta and Ambrose Bierce first, before reading this book. "Assignment in Eternity" is a 4-story collection released in 1953. "Lost Legacy" is one of the four stories within.
This collection of Heinlein has four varied short stories. My favorites are-Elsewhen, which posits the mind and body are not bound by space or time, and-Jerry is a Man, in a world of genetically engineered creatures, who is defined as a man?I will be interested to continue reading his explorations if the multiverse.
This was disappointing as i generally like all his books. It was a series of novellas tied loosely by the concept that humans don't really use their minds to potential and what if we did. Anyway, none of them really grabbed me.
Heinlein is a great writer but it seems very much he lost interest in this story once begun, tailed off and published anyway. Should have remained an unpublished manuscript for his estate to mull over.
This collection of stories, or novellas, is fantastic! Some of the ideas in it just blew my mind, such as an organization of super humans to protect the rest of us idiots from destroying ourselves. Great cloak and dagger, political concepts, scene setting, and story telling.
