https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/218467.Lucifer_s_Hammer
In Policeman, narration is provided first person, and although many of the projected responses to impact are exactly the same in both books, experiencing it through one man’s journey is far more profound and moving.The last third of the story is the survival aspect, and lives of many of the characters start to intersect.
I remained unmoved; the last book of The Policeman trilogy achieved a level of profoundness that made this discussion feel like a sixth-graders’ debate (no offense to any sixth-graders who might be reading this).
After a few pages, I was like, "Oh, it's one of those." (I also thought, throughout reading it, that it was published in 1970, not 1977 - maybe I saw a bit of misinformation, but it feels VERY dated and regressive.)Still, this started out in the three-star range, and stayed there for about the first 40% of the book.
If so, again, Brin did it better.) As the small details of survival go on, the book becomes very similar to Pat Frank's 1959 'Alas Babylon,' in the way it focuses on a small group in an isolated rural location, and the ins-and-outs of how they keep alive.
So there was a little bit of awareness there, and yeah, it was written in 1977, but still, one gets the distinct impression that when the Senator's aide reflects smugly to himself that one of the few good things about Hammerfall was that it put an end to "Women's lib," he's kind of speaking for the authors.Oh, then there's the part about that cannibal army forming around a group of Black Nationalists who were going on a crime spree when the Hammer fell.
So, let's recap: when the Hammer falls and ends civilization, white farmers, politicians, and engineers start rebuilding a stable community, while black people turn into rampaging cannibals taking orders from a white guy.
I just knocked this one off my top one-hundred novels of all time, but I did it with a heavy heart.Memories of a novel sometimes simply don't live up to a re-read.On the other hand, there are quite a few things about it that are still freaking fantastic, such as the science and the emotional impact of the comet strike.
It's still a damn sight better than most that have come after, even considering the racism, possible return to slavery, the cannibalism, and the wholesale slaughter by mustard gas, not even mentioning the whole nuclear war between Russian and China.I carried Dan Forrester in my heart ever since I read this the first time.
The unknown comet, one of millions, in a "soup".Surrounding the Solar System.Leftovers from its formation.Once in a while.A giant gas planet's gravity,like Neptune.Captures a snowball.And hurls it towards the Sun.Anything in the way.Is doomed.Tim has to share the accolades.With a teenage boy, from Iowa!Named Brown.The International Astronomical Union(I.A.U.).Has rules to follow.So officially Tim's comet.
Is called Hammer-Brown.Which annoys the gentleman.More than a little.But the boy reported the "heavenly body".
They'd never taken him seriously...Odds grow shorter, against, the dirty snowball.MISSING.And actually hitting the Earth.Scientists become less confident.As the comet comes closer.The solar wind, makes the comet's tail.Millions of miles long.Always away from the Sun.The giant comet.
Jellison was unable to be seen making doomsday preparations, but once he realizes that the comet has hit begins organizing the ranching community for the coming disaster -- torrential rain, food shortages, refugees and worse.
Then I had an English teacher, Andy Page who would suggest I read certain books.
This was the first one he recommended.I found out it wasn't that I didn't like to read.
It was that I didn't like to read crappy books.
With a memorable band of characters, a doomsday clock ticks down along with the explanation of the odds of the comet hitting the earth and shows these odds increasing at a steady, terrifying rate.
So much effort went into making the impact of the comet hitting the Earth so tangible and believable, that I sat on the edge of my seat reading well into the night for a solid week.
Yep, still a five star read for me. It's everything a post-apocalyptic book should be, including very realistic. I've been reading this book for 25 years and I've probably read it 20 times and I'll read it 20 more. "We control the lightning!"
Very interesting read. The idea of a comet strike is a scary one, for sure, and even though this may be a little dated, the outcomes still seem pertinent. While I liked the story overall, I never did really connect with the characters.
It hit in 6 places!The first third of the book establishes the characters and how people react to the news of impending doom.
It gets a bit gruesome, but I like that look at reality.The third part of the book speculates what people would do to survive, how would they react to this new state of survival and I have to say the authors did a pretty good job on touching on a bit of every part of humanity, the good, the bad and the very ugly.
Lucifer's Hammer isn't just a book about a comet.
There is a lot of science peppered throughout, real facts and knowledge written well, so it felt like part of the story while still teaching me quite a bit.
This really felt like the granddaddy of the specific genre "long, epic disaster porn." (contains no actual porn, though some refreshingly modern views on sex and relationships).
And start curating better reference materials!What I didn't like:The casual racism, sexism, classism, other-ism.
Down at the bottom of it all, this is rollicking good disaster story, and I'm glad I finally got around to reading it.
It takes a while for the comet to hit as Larry Niven and Jerry Pournelle introduce us to a large cast of characters — Tim Hamner and his girlfriend who doesn’t want to marry him because she has career ambitions; Harvey Randall and his dumb wife who prepared for the end of the world by stocking her freezer and packing nail polish; a senator and his beautiful daughter; a sociopath who’s stalking a young woman; a man who runs a nuclear power plant; two Russian astronauts and two American astronauts.
Though none of these characters are particularly interesting or likable, Niven and Pournelle do a good job showing us how the possibility that the world is ending affects each of them in different ways.Once the comet finally hit, I was riveted.
A disaster and post-apocalyptic novel rolled into one10 August 2015 Well I am finally back from my trip after finally finishing this monster of a book 20 minutes before my plane touched down at Melbourne Airport (and what a horrid flight it was: I really should have put my carry on bag into the overhead locker - I so didn't need my laptop because I was too exhausted to do anything other than attempt to finish this book, despite the fact that the plane had to take the long way round due to a volc
However there are two things I discovered:1) Don't think you can read a book on a speed boat in Thailand during the wet season: not only will you be bouncing all over the place, when you hit that first rainstorm you get absolutely drenched and you can pretty much say bye bye book (I didn't because I thought it would be a little anti-social, which for some reason playing on your mobile phone wasn't, though I was surprised that I could actually get internet in some of the places I visited).2) Don't expect to be able to read a book in a bar in Patong Beach: okay, they do have some normal bars, but pretty much you will find it impossible to do so in all of the others.
In my quest to read classic post apocalyptic classics, I couldn't very well ignore the famous Lucifer's Hammer, although having read it, I now wish I did.
I'm all for epics, but a post apocalyptic epic of that size with that many characters should be as good as The Passage to make it worth while.
This book was interesting in parts, decently written, with some good developments, a lot of racism and a lot of detailed information about comets and also surprisingly not that dated considering its age (probably the least dated older book I have read), but overall just not enjoyable enough to warrant the time it took to read.
Of course the final events would take place around my home town of Bakersfield California.
The scariest part about stories like this one is that it is something that could actually happen, and in our present state of technology there is not a damn thing we could do to stop it.
This was a long book, over 600 pages, but other than the introduction of all the major players which took place in the first part of the novel, the book was an attention grabber.
Of course there were a couple of spots where some romantic interlude had to be tediously described, and if you're like me, you could do without it.
As a teenager/young adult I considered Jerry Pournelle and Larry Niven to be good writers and I agreed with their political and social opinions.
Now I understand that this novel was written in the mid-seventies and aspects of it were in reaction to the changes that had swept through the United States in the previous fifteen years.
Well I guess that's the word for reading a novel about the end of modern civilization.Sometimes I wish that we didn't change and could just hold onto those things we remember so fondly.
However "Lucifer's Hammer" isn't that old of a novel and the political aspects get in the way at times.
Then I realized that any book that keeps me going back over and over for nearly 25 years has damn well earned the full five stars.
It's what made me fall in love with the post-apocalyptic sub-genre in the first place.35% of the book takes place before the comet strike.
One of the thing that always interests me is how very angry people get towards Hamner when they realize a strike is likely.
They do a really great job showing people trying to survive the initial strikes, and all the horrors that go along with that.
Like Armegeddon, the earth is the target, this time by a comet & it hits the earth. Excellent look at our civilization; how fragile, yet resilient. A must read. Well written & researched.
Some books take you back to a time and place.
I sat in the corner reading this book.
I loved the detailed description of the end of the world.
I loved all the little (well, not literally little) things that went down with our characters, how they survived or didn't.
I loved the end or the beginning, it depends upon how you look at it I suppose.
Some may disagree, but I argue that one should look at history and the time the story was written and took place in.
If you like end of the world drama this is it.
A truly fabulous, and extremely scientific scenario for a possible end of modern civilisation, due to meteor strike.One of my very favourite sci-fi and space opera books when I was just entering university. Terrific stuff. I also totally loved The Mote in God's Eye
One of the classic TEOTWAWKI ("The End of the World As We Know It") novels about a comet striking the Earth, published in 1977 and thus predating films like "Armageddon" and "Deep Impact" by a good solid decade.A gripping, scientifically well-grounded, frighteningly realistic storyline and a diverse cast of characters that hold the reader's interest.
166: Gen. Thomas Bambridge of SAC modelled after Curtis E.
176: Wow, the pre-PC days when people still said "Oriental" instead of "Asian!" Is Johnny Kim modelled after Mike Woo?--p.
340: Marty Robbins, like the singer?--p: 459: "Army submachine guns?" Ahem, that should be Army *rifles*.--p.
Such is the setup of the terrifying disaster thriller Lucifer's Hammer, easily the best of its genre I have ever read...or can imagine.The year is 1977, and the Cold War is about to end...for the participants are doomed.
As in Stephen King's The Stand, the survivors coalesce into two groups, and their interests collide in the fate of a nuclear power plant which somehow survived the catastrophe and may represent humanity's best hope for recovery.Virtually every natural disaster known to us is unleashed by the Hammer, but I was less interested in the race for immediate survival during the fall itself than by the aftermath.
Lucifer's Hammer abounds in characters, and watching them struggle to regain civilization -- and collapse into depravity -- is utterly gripping.
A bit dated in language and attitudes, possessed of a few too many convenient coincidences, and stretching credibility more than once (cannibalism so quickly??
surely not!), nevertheless still a classic of the genre and a fun read.
It's also steeped in that optimistic, sunny, innocent 1970s belief that technology can save us from anything, a viewpoint which appears distinctly naive today given tech's decidedly mixed impact (I'm looking at you, Fake News and nuclear accidents and cyberstalking and ransomware).
Still, it was pleasantly nostalgic to revisit for a bit.Note to self: In case of comet, hide useful books in septic tank.
The story is split roughly into three acts that deal with how people react to the comet's approach, then with the immediate aftermath of the strike, and finally with how they strive for long-term survival.
Would people really resort to murder within a couple of minutes of a comet strike some distance away, before it was even clear how bad things were?
Because surviving a comet strike and scraping through an impact winter aren't difficult enough, the authors throw a bunch of cannibals at our heroes.
(9/10)The book was written in 1977 and takes place in the early 70's, and it's true to the times.Most of the science in this book is accessible to the average reader.
Here we are facing the end of the space shuttle era and in the book, the space shuttles were the next big thing!Although the large cast of characters made following the individual stories difficult at times, it allowed the reader to see "Hammerfall" and its effects from many different perspectives.
Some of the characters changed dramatically and others only became more intense or real versions of who they already were.
I recommend this book.
Too much soap, not enough space. Alternative title: Desperate Housewives of Armageddon.
You got a comet named after you.” But as its path brings closer to Earth, scientists start narrowing down the margin of miles by which it will miss – and even they can’t tell if it will hit or just come super-close.The during-comet section is by far my favorite, as it fulfills my (very odd) need for tidal waves and other humanity-destroying natural disasters.
When the comet does hit, very few people in the world are actually prepared for it, and Niven and Pournelle spend a good part of the book writing about the various comet-head impacts from different characters’ perspectives.(I hope I’m not giving too much away by saying that most of the characters die horribly.
Interesting plot that ultimately fails to impress: Having enjoyed books by Larry Niven in the past and after reading a number of positive reviews, I was fairly certain Lucifer's Hammer would be a page turner.
The book follows the stories of several characters before, during, and after a large comet causes major devastation to the Earth and its populace--roughly covering a two year time span.
I will admit that I like the direction the authors took with the comet itself in that they made it more of a character in the story rather than just an incident.
It's without any doubt a very engaging read and once things get going I thought it was a captivating, dark, gritty and realistic read.A list of things that make this a reluctant four stars:- Written in 1977, there's racial stereotypes and gender stereotypes that might rub some people the wrong way.- The first half of the book is exposition and we meet an endless cast of characters and maybe it wasn't necessary to include that many people?- The portrayal of career driven women, hahaha, okay, 1977, fair enough, but still.- The portrayal of black people, again uhm, okay 1977, then again, come on.- The portrayal of Russians, okay, this one is fully allowed, the Cold War was still going in 1977.- The comet doesn't actually collide with our planet until far far far into the book.But:- Humanity goes and becomes nothing but cow-dung once the comet hits.
