https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1739719.Except_My_Love
Originally written in 1937, Harlequin reprinted it in the 70s, so it's truly a vintage romance.
Loretta Young as Erica, Tyrone Power as Oliver, and Lucille Ball or Alice Faye as Erica's softie-under-the-cynical-wisecracks friend Carol.The set-up is real simple: Secretary loves cold fish boss.
Secretary agrees, and then no end of troubles result (old flame, baby, misunderstandings) until the final happy clinch.As innocuous as it sounds, I really liked it.
I pretty much liked Oliver from beginning to end.
Later on, when he thinks Erica deceived him, his hurt is pretty deep and real.The best character in the story was Erica's friend Carol.
It was just so SAD at times and the H made me see red in the worst way.
Some of the things he said and did to the h was just awful.
But I also felt for the H due to his injury and how insecure and human it made him (barely human, mind you).
I wonder if this was real life, if that wasn't part of why he felt about the OW the way he did.
There were some things that happened that I didn't catch at first because I guess talking about sex was a big no-no when this was first written, apparently.
Her inner musings added depth and angst to the story.Oliver faired a bit lower on the likeability scale.
The outward clues to his feelings were pretty telling, though.This would have been a 5 star book for me, but lost that ½ star due to something missing with regard to Oliver.
The ending just fell a bit flat for me.Although originally published in the 1930s, there were just a few unobtrusive clues indicating the date of the book….the clothing references, the lack of technology, the accommodations for the single girl, lack of modern medical solutions for Oliver, OSHA where were you?, etc.
However, I found they did not distract at all from the flow of the story.A lovely book from a favorite author.
At one point, I wanted to scream "Oliver, just grow up and put on your big boy pants" People lose their whole hands, feet, arms, eyes.
To top it off, he wasn't very smart when he missed the fact that his lovely Deidra only decided to show up AFTER his Father died and left him beaucoup $$$$.
For heaven's sake Oliver, your wife, isn't a pair of shoes you can return to Macy's when you find another pair you like better.
Frankly, I thought Deidra and Oliver deserved one another.3) The secret baby plot....just weakened the whole HEA.
Talk about me wanting to kill the OW that the hero was so foolishly in love with!
Did anyone else notice that he did not say he loved the heroine in the end??
Maybe it's because he really doesn't love her.
I wanted him to get over the OW from seeing how wonderful the heroine was in contrast to that b@#$%^&!
I think I will stick to 3.5 stars because after the heroine left the hero we had no idea what was going on with him and Dreda for a very long time.
I want spunk!
Why couldn't we have HER for the heroine?Heroine: "it's just the fact of my being there which is forcing him into doing horrid, unhappy things which aren't really natural to him."Carol:"Well, darling, I'm not really following the logic of this"You and me both, sister!There are some nice 30's touches - a rug for the car, going to the corner phone booth, the real fur coat (better not let PETA read this!)The plot was ok, the writing was smooth, but I didn't like the pacing much.
The hand thing I saw coming a mile off and it was resolved by page 70 or so.
There was some good drama and angst after that but I couldn't care enough because I just didn't like the H.
I am conflicted between rating it as okay or good read,wanted to kick both Erica-Oliver,Oliver is on
She's loved him for two years, and she finally gets a chance to make a move when Oliver's cranky dad becomes more insistent that he marry.He doesn't want to, because he doesn't like doing anything someone tells him to.
He’s wrong.Erica and Oliver marry and then Dreda turns up right after and is all hi did you get my letter?
But fade to black means I can insert whatever I want into their sexy times, and I choose to insert non-virgin Erica teaching Oliver how to pleasure a woman.
It was actually really interesting to have so little sex or even discussion of physical attraction (only chaste kisses were described, and not many of them) -- part of me was dying to hear about it because otherwise they spoke to each other pretty formally most of the time and the contrast would be interesting, but on the other hand maybe what made it interesting was wondering about it rather than knowing.But the characters are pretty well-drawn and the plot was pretty gut-wrenching and angsty.
A marriage without love (or not reciprocated), a secret child and the usual bad other woman!I think Erica was not a doormat.
She stood up for her opinions, she had some courage to go and face her love rival and she was always very dignified.
He was marred (in his opinion) and I think he had some self-respect problem, but the fact the woman he loved left him after a bad incident, surely didn't help.
But the real doormat was him, unable to fight for the woman (and the child) he loved.
One of the best books that I've read EVER! The emotions, highs and lows, the freely given love, it was beautiful!
and it's exactly like the title, the hero married the heroine for the sake of companion meanwhile he love another woman who love him back when he was perfect, when the hero experienced an accident and lost 2 of his finger the fiance left him.
hero take the heroine for granted, when his lost love sent him letter, heroine accidentally crumpled the letter and the hero accidentally (again) burnt it down.
A marriage of convenience between the hero Oliver and his secretary who has loved him all along.
Oliver was on the rebound from a beautiful actress and turns to his secretary.
It all looks like a possible happy ending until Oliver learns his wife kept a letter from the actress from him just before the wedding.
Like many of Burchells heroes, Oliver has a little of the spoiled but lovable little boy in him.
Unfortunately that spoiled little boy does all the wrong things when he learns of her deception and drives her away.
This is another of Burchells I am happy to reread.
4 1/2 Stars!
~ This is such a poignant story of a hopeless love.
Marrying for companionship not love seemed to be a good situation, and our couple were actually quite happy together.
Of course, Erica does love her husband and has high hopes that he'll be able to return that love one day.
These hopes prove to be impossible and Erica is compelled to end what has become an unbearable marriage.
Though written almost 50 years ago, this is a timeless story that I know I'll be reading again and again.
Although I did not care for the male lead character AT ALL, I did feel the despair of the main female character.
I did not necessarily agree with her choices and could not understand as to why she continued to strongly love her pathetic excuse of a husband...
but I could see and feel the story happening.
I wasn't just reading words that didn't effect me, it made me have some strong emotion and that is why I am giving this book a three star.
The OW is just the way I love them to be, a real mean, conniving, selfish B****.
This was one of the first Harlequin romances I ever read, and resulted in a lifelong devotion to Mary Burchell, who really transcended the limitations of series romance in her many novels. This one is not her best - it is about a secretary who falls in love with her distant boss (who does not deserve her devotion and treats her badly) - but it certainly got me hooked!
Despite the supposedly celibate arrangement he gets her (unknowingly) pregnant, and treats her so nastily she leaves and has the baby in secret.Oliver is a pathetic, whingey, selfish, self-pitying, moody, misogynistic man who can't get over some awful woman ("Dreda") who was revulsed by his hand injury.
Even after well over a year of separation, Erica is still pathetically hung up on Oliver, even naming her son (albeit nicknamed "Bunny") after him.Really, she's the kind of wet doormat who deserves to be trodden on.
I'm going through them and reviewing them on goodreads.Mary Burchell (Ida Cook) is my favorite romance author.
The sisters helped 29 people escape, funded mainly by Ida's writing." Knowing this makes me enjoy her writing even more!I've read about 50 of her books, and Except My Love, written in 1937, is my favorite.
Her husband Oliver knows he too is a bit of a fool over the former fiance who dumped when he lost two fingers rescuing a man at his factory, but somehow he does have the good sense to marry Erica.
Erica finally leaves Oliver.Oliver, doesn't even really have any feelings for his ex, he only goes to see her because he wants to show Erica that her opinion doesn't matter.
Oliver appears to be hurt when Erica leaves him, or at least that's the impression when these two see each other almost two years later.
The only silver lining in that two year separation is that based on their conversations, Oliver doesn't cheat on Erica, so that's like a point for him.After leaving Oliver, Erica finds out she's pregnant, she names her baby Oliver, but calls him Bunny.
4.5*I respect the heroine since she is courageous. From the start, she declared her love to her husband despite the marriage condition.I is also fast paced and we get to read from the beginning of the marriage to the end and finally to the reunion.When she was pregnant, i was like "what?they didn't bed!" but i get it, old books...
I really liked the heroine (very understanding)...I thought the hero could have at least said he loved her in the end (which he didn't do even once in the book). Plus, the ending was abrupt IMO. However, I thought this was one touching HQ romance.Overall, 4.5 stars;)
“Except my Love” is the story of Erica and Oliver, and is going to get all the benefits of the doubt as it came out 80 years ago.We have the classic story or Secretary falling for the boss with a unconventional beginning.
There is marriage, pining for ow, angst, separation, babies, close best friends, fear and HEA.
The heroine was a perfect combination of blind devotion and naivety (very much a doormat) towards the hero, the hero a tortured soul but pretty dense, and the best friend Carol seemed to be the only one with a backbone.Loads of OW drama fill this one, so beware.
and hear this people, i soo hate this line from erica :"Oh, God, they were getting back to absurd, stilted speeches again, when all she really wanted to do was to put her arms round his neck and say : 'Dearest, stay with us.
coz erica, again, not give a flying care if oliver love her or not, or betrayed her, or doesnt want her.
and in my eyes, erica give him a guarantee for, he can continue to love or maybe have another affair as long as he stay w/her.
Themes: virgin heroine, secretary heroine - boss Hero, Hero loves OW, marriage of convenience, closed door romance "But I will fight. What's the good of any love if it won't fight for existence?" This is the first book that I read from M.B. and I was not disappointed. I have to set my mind that this was written in decades when I wasn't born yet, or even my parents weren't born yet (possibly) haha. But I never expected that the 'feels' that I had from this book, with plots like this one, would be
"But I will fight.
What's the good of any love if it won't fight for existence?"
But I never expected that the 'feels' that I had from this book, with plots like this one, would be the same when I read contemporary romances: the anguish of unrequited love , dammmmnn...I quite like the heroine, practical and well...she's likable really.
I got only to see him through the heroine's POV so I don't really have that much opinion of him rather than he definitely loved his ex-fiance (the OW) so much.I'm interested to read more of MB's works in the future...
The doormat factor in this book was dialed up way too high.
There's such a thing as being too understanding, and the h crossed that line a long ways back.
The glove thing was unintentionally hilarious to me, but the laughs stopped when she was willing to sacrifice the well being of her child for this self absorbed moron of a non-husband.
Anyhow...the book was readable so if self sacrifice ain't a turn off, then go for it!
Personal gripe- the use of 'child' as a term of endearment for a grown woman who'll end up in your bed is a bit...
Can't believe I read a romance novel written in 1937. Though both H & h were weak, and I felt like screaming at them all the time, I still enjoyed reading the book, taking into consideration that the book was written so many decades ago. Of all the characters, I like Carol the most.
Rating: 3.5 starsThis story was really quite ridiculous and I enjoyed it anyway; at several parts I even got all misty-eyed. Don't expect huge amounts of realism - this is purely escapist romance.
The cover reminds me of Thelma from Scooby Doo...
Great story! I can read this one over and over.
4 and a 1/2 stars
