https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8665876-awaken
But that changes when she meets Justin - a boy who challenges her views and introduces her to a completely new and different way of life.
Additionally, Maddie often only seemed to be the pawn in someone else’s plan, and was too passive to really be considered the book's heroine.I found the idea of the world Kacvinsky takes the reader to fascinating.
Altogether, not convincing.In the end, though, what I liked least about the novel was strongly connected with Justin, the love interest: First of all, I couldn’t really feel any chemistry between him and Maddie, or understand why she was attracted to him in the first place.
But when I look more closely, I see technology evolved in ways I didn't think were possible.
From when you wake up, to stores where you buy your clothes to the conversations you have with people.Face to face interaction is nearly extinct in Maddie's world.
When we meet Maddie, she's perfectly okay with the way she's living her life.
He is the inventor of the most influential program in history called Digital School, which makes if possible for people to study at home.
The amount of power he has is almost endless.Things suddenly change when Maddie meets Justin Solvi online, who convinces her to come to a real life tutor session.
Besides, I am sure the economy would collaps if people didn’t have friends and neighbors to show off their newly acquired gadgets and clothes to.The characters (and the story)At the beginning of the book I liked Maddie pretty much: An intelligent, soccer-playing girl who has to stay home most of the time because of her controll-freak father, who follows her every step (even online) and even is the founder of the compulsory Digital School system, which in turn is responsible for Maddie’s isolated life.
Maddie, the lead character, is used to being inside, going to school via the internet, holing away and being someone she’s not online.
This book actually made me feel incredibly guilty that I’m not living my life outside of it.
It’s not completely true, but as Justin, the male lead character who convinces Maddie it’s okay to go outside her house and see other people, talk to them face to face, touch them, be with them, I feel that I too must spend more time in “reality.” Maddie’s father is a powerful man.
Enter Justin, a mysterious online study group contact, who extends the unusual invitation to meet in person, and offers Maddie a glimpse of another kind of life.This is not a subtle book.
Whether through the internal musings of Maddie herself, or via Justin’s eloquent speeches – he occasionally sounds more like a travelling sage than a (view spoiler)[20 (hide spoiler)] year old guy – the evils of technology gone too far are expounded loud and clear.
The pacing increases throughout the latter chapters, but I felt here that the story relied heavily on the reader’s investment in the Maddie/Justin will they/won’t they relationship to pull them through the plot, as opposed to Maddie’s actual predicament.
I think it’s scary with which carelessness some people reveal information about their private lives on platforms like Facebook for example.
As you can see, this book really got me thinking and that’s what I liked about it.Enough about the worldbuilding.
I enjoy pining away for the love interest together with the heroine.I was torn between a 4 and a 5 stars rating but settled for 5 stars eventually because Awaken meets all of my personal criteria in order to qualify as a 5 star read.Do I want to re-read this sometime?
--> Yes.Did I think about the book even when I was not reading (at work for example)?
and then I was dying to know what was going to happen.
Some of the reasons that it does happen in the novel, are eerily realistic and incredible sad.
I truly hope that I get to read more of their story.And there was a little bit of a love story between Maddie and Justin and it was the frustrating kind of love, where you just want to yell at the characters...
I mean I did yell at Justin...
That's my kind of love story.Katie does a great job keeping your attention throughout the entire novel, I can't wait to read more of her stories.Read this one people!
I’m quite sure technology by then would have evolved past fancy digital screens and elaborate gadgets that really don’t do anything spectacular than change form.
I’m sure this world of Awaken can do a lot better.If the whole struggle between the opposing sides had been developed a lot more, than I would have given this a lot better grade but halfway through the book, everything set up in the premise was tossed out the window for a very lackluster romance.
Then she develops some sort of fatalistic attitude concerning him, like I can’t live without him and if I do, I’ll die for him!
Ever since her disastrous rebellion two years before nearly caused her and her father to go to jail, Maddie has lived compliantly with this life, never complaining or yearning for actual physical contact.
One day Maddie meets a boy online in school chatroom, and he invites her to actual go to a real tutor session.
Maddie can feel herself falling in love with Justin, even though her father, the founder of Digital School, forbids it.
It's kind of ironic though, because I was reading this book online.....Maddie was a good narrator.
The premise for Katie Kacvinsky's Awaken is very timely with today's technology-minded culture: Imagine a world in the future so technology-obsessed and fearful that people no longer leave their homes.
Will bombing Digital School really make it all better?And then there are the main characters, one of whom I like (Maddie) and the other, not so much (Justin).
I especially appreciated the slow build of the romance.The premise of Awaken is full of promise and should be explored, but the lack of consistency in this dystopian world drew me out of the story too many times.
Author Katie Kacvinsky, does just that with AWAKEN.Set in the year 2060, AWAKEN follows Maddie Freeman, your average teen.
In fact, Maddie never has to leave the house if she doesn't want to.
People don't leave home without their phone, flipscreen and mindreader.
Justin is rogue, he doesn't conform to the standards set by the government and he's determined to change Maddie.AWAKEN is the most realistic dystopian novel I've read - it is sad to think this is the way we are heading.
One thing that really caught my attention: Kacvinsky focused on books.
Then ask yourself, are you Maddie or Justin?
Spannend, kurzweilig, tolle Story!
Seventeen year old Maddie has grown used to this life but she often feels something is missing.
Then she meets Justin who prefers face-to-face interaction and she starts to question if this "digital" life is as perfect as some people make it to be.
"unplugged" dilemma is already a huge issue and when you add environmental propaganda on top, it starts to feel like one big sermon.
It's not that I don't appreciate the message, it's just that in the story's context, it feels like overkill.That being said, what I loved most is that the characters are not one-sided - those supporting the digital life and those against it.
Die Geschichte,rund um Maddie,spielt im Jahre 2060.Das Leben hat sich insofern verändert,dass es sic
Obwohl es ein Re-read war, finde ich die Idee dahinter immer noch krass. Wie viel musste dafür recherchiert werden ?!Maddie ist zu Beginn wirklich ein langweiliger Charakter. Bis sie Justin trifft. Die Verwandlung mit anzusehen ist toll. Als würde sie lernen zu leben.
Check out this review and more at: http://apocalypsereads.blogspot.com/  I picked up Awaken looking for an easy read, something that I wouldn’t have to think too hard about.
Kacvinsky, a former educator, makes some interesting points about the real purpose of education and that, in itself, is a good enough reason to read this book.
Plus, I think it is a stand alone book *fingers crossed*, so there is no need to pine over when the next one comes out.
So apparently, crossing your fingers doesn't really work because I just learned that there will be a sequel to this book.
Mit großen Augen bestaunt sie fassungslos, dass es tatsächlich noch Menschen gibt, die ganz dreist an der Tür klingeln, um gemeinsam einen Kaffee trinken zu gehen, statt nur ein digitales Café aufzusuchen.
Er blieb für mich allerdings lange nur schwer greifbar: man erfährt, dass er unglaublich wichtig ist für die Rebellion, aber bis auf wenige kurze Einblicke nicht viel darüber, was er eigentlich genau tut, um den Respekt und die Verehrung zu rechtfertigen, die ihm entgegengebracht werden.
Wirklich herausragend fand ich den Schreibstil jedoch nicht; für meinen Geschmack wird zu oft Oberflächliches beschrieben, wie das Aussehen und die Kleidung der verschiedenen Personen – auch, wenn es gerade viel interessantere Themen geben würde.
"Let's just say there's only so much of life that can be taught by pushing a bunch of buttons and looking at a screen."  "But technology can be like a drug if you don't keep it in check. After a while it gets in your system and you're addicted. You get to a point where you can't live without it and that's when the drug controls you."  Quotes of the book Quotes are sentences that inspires you which gives you the urge to imprint them in your mind. Frankly, I've never felt that kind of urge, maybe
Because behind these camouflage, the girl on fire is still burning brightly there, and it's Justin's job to offer her the world.FIghting against digital world, learn to be human again, learn to live and learn to feel is what the book about.
Have you ever count how many streetlights are there when you walk back home?Have you ever greet and smile at a random stranger just because you feel like it?Have you ever notice the name tag of the staff when you're waiting for your coffee at Starbucks?None of these thoughts have ever existed in your mind, because you never chin up and look around you.Life is too short to be wasted on a digital world that doesn't even exists.Go out and make new friends!
In order to prevent terrorists acts (returning to the plot of the book) that caused hundreds of innocent lives (hopefully incidents like Columbine will not go on taking place in the future) the American government assigns to Madeline's(the main character of the story) father a new form of school to be created that will keep everyone at their home in front of their computer attending a virtual classroom...that will ensure no more casualties, no more bombs no more crimes in school areas no more physical speaking deaths...but it will kill them inside in a way...
Strong enough to know what was wrong with her life at 15 and act on it; strong enough to step out of her comfort zone and meet Justin two years later.
What father checks and triple checks every aspect of his daughter's life, all the way down to the number of people in her study group?The relationship between Justin and Maddie was incredibly well-paced.
I loved how he was always taking the time to give Maddie new experiences.
Her reactions to these I particularly enjoyed because it gave me a whole new appreciation for life.
**This review contains little tiny spoilers some people may not like**"They don't make paper books anymore--its's illegal to chop down trees.
Most cities have switched to synthetic trees, and people prefer them to the living ones."Does this quote from the very first page remind you of anything?
I was waiting on the edge of my seat for the first kiss.Since this world was dystopian, of course some parts were kind of scary.
I was horrified by all the school attacks Maddie discussed midway through the book.
Let's all hope that our world never comes to this.From cute romance to an awesome adventure, this book is the perfect romantic dystopian book.
The year is 2060, and the digital world has been relied on so heavily that it's unthinkable to do anything a different way.
Despite Madeline's rebellion streak a couple of years ago, she can't really see a different way out but doesn't stop her from wanting one.In till she meets Justin on a online study chat room.
Scary yes, but it's also pretty fascinating.All the characters were likable but I think I liked Justin the most.
Awaken is one of those books you pick up, are instantly drawn in, and want to live in that world.
Kacvinsky illustrates how people in 2060 (and today) choose to be almost solely connected to the digital world.
Everywhere people are plugged in.
Madeleine, heiress of the digital school empire, lives in her room and through her computer.
Life is mundane to say the least until she meets Justin, a mysterious, friendly, sexy guy.
I enjoyed Madeleine’s journey to find herself as she experiences life and her first love.
One of Justin's actions changes the course of Maddie's life forever.
When I first opened this book, I immediately liked the concept.
In a world where everything is digital, going outside is uncommon and having social get-togethers are strange.
Maddie starts to fall for Justin but I felt like this chemistry was one sided.
The second half of the book things started to pick up as Maddie has to make a choice of what kind of life she wants and whether she wants to be part of a rebellion to end the restrictions of a digital world.
Justin also starts opening up and you can feel the affection building between the two.
The funny thing is that Maddie's dad is super rich and he had invented virtual school where children are supposedly learning better from computers and e-lessons and interacting socially with people, all in the course of the online thing.
*feels like can argue for centuries on this matter* So now, Maddie's trying to be rebellious and goes out and meets Justin, a guy who she's planning to study with, actually in the real world.
I felt that he only used Maddie and that there were some weak feelings because HE JUST FELT like he had to kiss her because it seemed right.
It's very hard to find the teenager/adult that doesn't know their way around technology and feel like this if they don't have it:So I guess I can say it delves into a subject quite close to the truth.Now, for the review!Are you ready?No?TOO BAD.Maddie Freeman lives in a technology-dependant world where everything, including school, is done on line.
Like you can expand your family and your feelings and carry them anywhere."Awaken è un libro che mi ha affascinato moltissimo fin dalle prime pagine.Maddie, aka Madeline, vive nel 2060 in una realtà completamente digitalizzata, in cui le persone hanno perso i loro contatti personali, e lo schermo di un computer e internet sono gli unici modi per socializzare.
Non c’è solo romance, anzi è solo un mezzo per avallare la tesi del libro e aggiunge fascino ad una storia che ne avrebbe a prescindere.
Lo stile della scrittrice è semplice e riesce a farti apprezzare anche le più piccole cose.Leggete assolutamente questo libro ne vale totalmente la pena.
Yup. That's more accurate.I think what most drew me in about the world that Katie Kacvinsky builds is how close to home it hits.
Watching Maddie's life change, and her story unfold hit really close to home.
Thank you Katie Kacvinsky for making me think about that.Maddie is a character I fell into step with instantly.
However lest you think that this is another book with a girl pining hopelessly after a boy, Maddie is different.
Maddie and Justin teach us how important it is to get out there and really live, and to do it for yourself and no one else.
I loved the idea behind it – the whole life takes place in a digital world -, because we live in a world of digitalization and this could possibly be reality in just a few years.Unfortunately, there are some points about the implementation that I didn’t like and made the book quite unrealistic and cheesy.Maddie is in a big conflict when it comes to Justin.
That’s why the story feels unfinished (ok, it’s a series, but you shouldn’t be forced to read every book o fit to get something like a sticking point or result) - it's missing the point.
Not only is she not used to being around people, she has to ask permission to leave the house.Maddie meets Justin at the group.
Justin has done his research and knows Maddie’s father is behind the founding of Digitial School.
But her father doesn’t want her to see Justin again.As the story unfolds, Maddie’s history comes out, and the reader learns about her being on house arrest for her computer hacking attempt.
It’s just that ability and her close connection to her father that Justin and his group of rebels want access to.All of the characters in AWAKEN were wonderful and easy to relate to.
