https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/106835.The_Intelligent_Investor
Benjamin Graham’s last line in The Intelligent Investor sums up the entire book in his trade-mark common-sense way: “ To achieve satisfactory investment results is easier than most people realize; to achieve superior results is harder than it looks.”First published in 1949, this version that I read was re-published in 2005 with a forward written by John Bogle who started Vangard Mutual Fund.
What The Intelligent Investor does is that it lays the foundation for laymen by giving a sound approach to investment, written with common sense and simplicity.
To Graham, incidentally, Buffett added: A) know when to break these rules; B) prefer companies with wide inherent 'moats' (his famous example is that if you gave him a billion dollars today, he could not create a brand that would compete effectively with Coca Cola); C) buy private, illiquid-but-outstanding businesses on the cheap -- e.g., See's Candies; D) own and use an insurance company business to create 'float' from premiums that can be used for investing; E) invest in what you can understand.
Sadly "C" and "D" are not feasible for the rest of us, but between Buffett and Graham the small-time investor has about all he/she needs in order to at least not get hosed!
OK, the recent stock market drops scared me.
This time I had what I thought would be value stocks.
So for $8 I bought a used copy of Ben Graham's book.
It teaches you some basics about the behavior of the market and it teaches you to be very careful.
I did find that some of my "Value Stocks" weren't all that great.
I absolutely recommend this book, especially right now.
Now is a great opportunity to pick up value stocks that have dropped a bunch.
They dropped not because that are bad stocks but because Mr. Market has dropped and they've been pulled down.
I read this book to learn Graham's general investing advice and opinion of the market, not to learn his formulas for analyzing the values of stocks and bonds.Much of the book's data is understandably stale, since it was first published in 1949.
Graham warns against being an emotional investor; he says to invest based on arithmetic, not optimism."To achieve satisfactory investment results is easier than most people realize; to achieve superior results is harder than it looks.""The real money in investing will have to be made - as most of it has been in the past - not out of buying and selling, but out of owning and holding securities, receiving interest and dividends, and benefiting from their long-term increase in value."NotesGraham divides investors into 2 camps: defensive and enterprising.
Okay, this is the book to read if you are serious about investing in stocks.
Benjamin Graham's "value investing" method is the time-tested "choose 'em carefully and hold 'em" long-term strategy used by Warren Buffett.
Benjamin Graham is the man that Warren Buffett calls The Man. So, you know, if you want to be rich like Warren Buffett, read this book....
Most of it is about how to analyze the actual long-term value of a stock, which means diving deep into company financial statements.
Not just picking one based on a favorable history or because you think you can predict a stock is about to take off because you're sure the company is the next Apple.
Instead it instructs those who follow its teachings to calculate the intrinsic value of companies, find the ones that are either under priced or successful, but proven to have long term proven success capabilities, and then create a portfolio with those.The defensive investor does this, then puts new money in every month and checks on the ratios of his/her portfolio ever quarter or six months to make sure its still balanced (hypothetically lets say 60% stocks 40% bonds) this reduces drifting and ensures long term revenue, even if it's not the absolute highest one can earn it's still consistent and positive.
The book in its original form is obviously outdated in terms of the specific examples it gives for ways to invest and the different companies it details.
Undoubtedly, Benjamin Graham provided the foundation for the commentary with his book, but I personally found Zweig's portions easier to read and relate to.I'd recommend The Random Walk Guide to Investing: Ten Rules for Financial Success for a simpler, more straight-forward alternative to this book.
It's not that I wouldn't advise anyone to read The Intelligent Investor, it's just that if you don't have the time to plod your way through Graham's outdated details, either skip straight to the commentary, or check out Malkiel's book.
Warren Buffet calls out, "(this is) by far the best book on investing ever written."……rest other testimonials are just reiterations. ------------P.S. Not for traders.P.P.S. Don't forget to read Jason Zweig's commentary after each chapter to get the current context. Most of the times, those help to understand the original text much better.
I just can't imagine that this book worth nearly $22.
Actually, it is too expensive for me to afford this book because it cost me almost all my pocket money.
But it doesn't worth such much money.
There is little doubt that this book is just rubbish.
And nobody can invest well if they read this book.
And nobody can invest well if they read this book.
This book is just rubbish and the author is really stupid.
I really want to throw this stupid book away and burn all the books that this author wrote.
This is an amazing book. I read it when I was 13 and what I've learned has stuck in my head ever since. It changed my whole way of thinking about the stock market and investing in general.
Why I Read this Book: Warren Buffet became the successful man he is today greatly as a result of what he learned from the man who wrote this book.
He has gotten to where he is by nothing more than diligent value and principle based investing (with very little debt I might add).I apologize for the long rant on Buffet especially since he only wrote the first few pages of this edition.
The book (as well as Buffet’s proven strategy) is based on a fundamental set of principles.
This way you buy more when cheap and less when expensive-You cannot beat the market even if you are an active investor.-Think long term, index funds-Qualitative analysis over speculation-Diversify.
For public utilities the debt should not exceed twice the stock equity (at book value).Continued dividends for at least the past 20 years.-No earnings deficit in the past ten years.-Ten-year growth of at least one-third in per-share earnings.-Price of stock no more than 11⁄2 times net asset value.-Price no more than 15 times average earnings of the past three years.
The most important example in my opinion was the idea of how much risk you should have in your investments:The "risk" you take on, in terms of volatility and uncertainty, should not depend on how close you are to retirement, but rather how much time you can spend on researching your investments.
If you don't want to spend time, take safe investments, like index funds mutual funds, and blue chip stocks that pay regular dividends.
If you are willing to do research, and keep current, it makes sense to invest less diversely and include higher risk stocks.
I'd read several books about Benjamin Graham as well as articles by him in the past, but this was my first foray into reading a book authored by him. It's definitely a great primer into the world of value investing and not only outlines its tenets but also their rationale. Several historical examples are used to illustrate his points.One criticism: for all the words spent on intrinic value, no clear cut way is proposed for its calculation, however. Several proxies (i.e. book value, fair value, etc) are used, but here investing begins to become an art.
It is not only a "book", it is a "reference".The book shows enormous efforts from GRAHAM; the author, through the editions of this book.The comments by ZWEIG are extremely beneficial and was up to the standard of the original text using updated info and statistics beyond GRAHAM's times.
But if I want to add other chapters for people who are interested solely in common stocks, I would recommend reading - in addition - chapters: 4-7, 11-12, 14-15.Finally, I want to thank B.GRAHAM, the author.
And W.BUFFET, the author's unique follower and one of the most - or shall I say the most - successful stock investor ever.
He says this is the exact opposite of sound business sense.He then goes on to explain his philosophy of investing, which is to buy stocks and bonds at a discount to their intrinsic value.
He notes the majority of security owners should be defensive (i.e. passive) because they don't have the time or the determination to treat investing as a quasi-business.
The stock selection strategies for defensive investors are much more strict than those for enterprising investors, because the latter can spend more time evaluating the quantitative and qualitative characteristics of the companies in which he or she may wish to invest.I would highly recommend this book to anyone interested in long-term investing.
Graham uses 100 years of stock market data to humble and convince you that you never know what the market will do and if you ever start thinking you do know, be careful.
The newest edition as been updated with a chapter of commentary after each of Graham's original chapters that attempts to discuss how Graham's advice would have held up through various market conditions since he last updated the book.
It was great reading this book just before the most recent market crash and then asking "what would Graham do?" Try reading this book and then watch CNBC.
2 - The experts do not have dependable ways of selecting and concentrating on the most promising companies in the most promising industries."2) "Note that investing, according to Graham, consists equally of three elements: a) you must thoroughly analyze a company, and the soundness of the underlying business, before you buy its stock; b) you must deliberately protect yourself against serious losses; c) you must aspire to "adequate", not extraordinary, performance.3) "The more enthusiastic investors become about the stock market in the log run, the more certain they are to be proved wrong in the short run."4) "The only thing you can be confident of while forecasting future stock returns is that you will probably turn out to be wrong.
- Nathan Mayer RothschildPut up to 1/3 stock in foreign stocks (mutual funds)Ronald Reagan used to say: Trust, then verify.Getting to Know YouDetermine whether s/he cares about helping clients or going thru the motionsEstablish whether s/he understands fundamental principles of investingAssess whether s/he is sufficiently educated and experienced to help you.1) Why are you in this business - besides your alarm clock what gets you up in the morning?2) What’s your investing philosophy?
Why did the last client who fired you do so?Would you tell me, please, which way I ought to go from here?“That depends a good deal on where you want to get to,” said the Cat.
A good introduction to the world of investing especially for young people looking to manage their personal finances. A definitive read for those looking for a disciplined approach to investment
But for active investors, it is recommended that they study Mr. Market’s price variations and invest in their preferred stock at their lowest price.Investment here is also specifically mentioned to be different from trading or speculating.
Normally the investment would be long term and the only time to sell is if the company’s direction or management does not fit with investor’s requirements anymore.Lastly, the book introduces the concept of Margin of Safety.
The idea is that even if a stock looks cheap on paper, you still can get screwed by the irrational Mr. Market who prices it lower and lower.
“By far the best book on investing ever written”, said Warren Buffet, known as the Father of Value Investing.
This review is more than enough to pick and place it on your bookshelf and include in your reading list.
Prior to making huge investments, it is essential to understand the whims of the market.
Benjamin Graham emphasizes on safe investments.
He was the one to coin the term ‘The Margin of Safety’.
The book states every minute aspect of market investments and the author warns the reader from committing judgement errors and emotional mistakes by getting obsessed with the market values.
Read Full Review here https://geekyalien.com/books/best-boo...
Out and out the best book I've ever read on investing.
Zweig artfully ties Graham's principals to recent events and defends value investing in modern times.Graham's central thesis is as follows: An investors main goal should be to not LOSE money; To do this one must understand the distinction between 'investing' and 'speculating' and avoid the latter.
Most so-called investors including a large proportion of professional fund managers are, on closer inspection, speculators who invest with little knowledge of fundamental value and a slim-to-negative margin of safety.
This is a book that offers down-to-earth, practical advice on investing to a layman audience.
Before selecting a stock, understand the company, protect yourself against serious losses, and aspire to "adequate" not extraordinary performance.2.
Protect yourself against inflation by purchasing TIPS.
In his words, it is more about "character" than intelligence.This book is packed with wisdom not only for investing but also for life.
The advice Graham dispenses advising individuals to be grounded by solid fundamentals and to guard against animal spirits are valid for other life's adventures.
This book should be in everyone's toolkit.
Not only was Ben Graham's timeless investment advice unassailable, but the commentary's after each chapter by Jason Zweig were current and refreshing.While I learned and re-learned many truths with this book, some of the most valuable ideas were to distinguish between "investing" and "speculation." Graham asserts that most of what is called investing today would be more accurately named speculation.
Also his insistence on a "margin of safety" is timeless truth.
Always insist on a large enough margin between price paid and value of an enterprise (and it's stock) so that if things go wrong, you won't lose your principle.Graham is truly a modern prophet calling all speculators to a higher level of investing.
This book is a mirror to find the kind of investor we are; along with comprehensive solutions to serve our individual requirements, as it has been wisely stated in the book- “It requires a great deal of boldness and a great deal of caution to make a great fortune; and when you have got it, it requires ten times as much wit to keep it.”
This is a great book to give a foundation to manage your own investments, even if you don't want to do anything but know where to put your money and leave it there until you retire.
It also tells you how much time you should realistically be looking to spend if you are going to be an active investor.This is a must read for anyone looking to manage their own money on any level.
This book has great advice on how to find a financial advisor as well, so even if you are looking to have someone else manage your money this is a must read.
I've been reading this book for ages, not because its boring or now worthwhile, but because it is so rich and detailed that I could only take it in small bites.
(OK, and honestly, its so much easier to read escapist literature for entertainment!)Why is this such a good book?
Its the full meal deal.The book covers some history, a lot of investing fundamentals, and quite a bit of applied theory as well as investor psychology.
There are case histories to study and apply the learning to.
I'd highly recommend this book to anyone who really wants to understand more about investing and the markets.
Benjamin Graham was one the leading proponents of investment analysis during the 20th century (among his leading acolytes is Warren Buffett) and this is one of his most famous books (Security Analysis: Principles and Technique being the other).
Graham's last revision of this book was done in 1973 so some of the examples are outdated, but a Wall Street Journal reporter adds a commentary after every chapter showing that Graham's reasoning still applies (although that was done in the early 2000's which seems a little outdated too sometimes).
Rather Graham sets out his thoughts and philosophy in words while providing specific examples.Many of Graham's ideas and warnings still hold sway today - for example his warning about "creative accounting" methodologies were extremely prescient, with Enron debacle many decades later.
There is no analysis as to whether his ideas hold generally across all stocks.
(Indeed perhaps there is significant value if his results do work and did not come from extensive data-mining).All in all, the concepts here are a great first step, but most people would be advised to put more depth into their investing analysis.
