https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/120724.Selected_Poems
This collection does not contain The Junk Man. And all I could think about throughout this book was the first time I read The Junk Man. It was sent to me by a friend in Texas, now long lost, now just one of those people I used to know. She was beautiful and strong and over Ani Difranco and Pinot she opened my world to poetry. Her wife is a lucky lady. And Sandburg's voice still takes me back to the late 90's and The Junk Man. Funny, how words can do that.
Sandburg is the eloquent voice of the working man.
Those who toil in dust and mortar.
The men and women who find happiness in the fact that they've made it to another tomorrow.
He speaks for those who have no voices and those who's voices are lost.This is the first collection of poems I've read from the man and I'm only ashamed I had not gotten to him earlier.
It amazes me just how much some of the poems contained within this collection resonate today.
If you've not read Sandburg, do yourself a favor and pick up a collection of his as soon as possible.

Sandburg paints a different hue on my slow-growing poetry bank of knowledge.
Of those I've read, he comes the closest to Frost in style.
Instead of focusing on nature and the outdoors like Frost, Sandburg focuses more on the nature of people and leaders.
He is atune to the political climate of his day.
Although I hate reading about politics, it is interesting to see the world through his retrospective eyes.
His discernment in regards to big business and Billy Sunday as big business religion were particularly entertaining.
Some of my favorite poems were: The Windy City, Billy Sunday, Smoke and Steel, and Lawyer.
HauntsThere are places I go when I am strong.One is a marsh pool where I used to gowith a long-ear hound-dog.One is a wild crabapple tree; I was therea moonlight night with a girl.The dog is gone; the girl is gone; I go to theseplaces when there is no other place to go.~Page 70, Selected Poems of Carl SandburgStarting with Chicago, this short book of poetry takes us to the real word of the working class.
Each poem makes us think and savour the beauty found in the mundane, normal word of the working class, but retains the mystery and needless to say he makes one think.
Carl Sandburg is one of America's most under-appreciated poets. He has a distinct voice that reminds me a lot of the great folk singers like Woody Guthrie, Pete Seeger, and Bob Dylan. I especially like the poem "Fog." It's short and sweet but there is no better imagery than "The fog comes on little cat feet." I appreciate the accessibility of Sandburg's writing although many critics find it to be pedestrian. Now I just need to muster the courage to start reading his biography of Abe Lincoln.
My second book of Sandburg poems now. I still seem to like his Chicago poems, and soldier poems best of all. I think it's the portraits of simple people in their everyday world that draw me.
These poems made me feel as though I were walking through the streets of America during another time, each poem a snapshot of this country and its people.
These deserve to be read aloud.
Rebecca West, whom I've recently heard is worth looking into in her own right, nails the introduction to this volume, saying that Sandburg doesn't work the way that we think poetry should work if we're thinking in terms of Yeats or Eliot: he needs 100 poems to get you the impression that he's trying to get.
And of course you think you've got all you need of Sandburg once you know "Chicago" and "Grass" but there's more to him than that.
This guy is worth a spot on your shelf.
I honestly don't like poetry...but Carl Sandburg's poems are more like prose, stories told in only a few lines. I love his stuff. In this book, my favorites are Under III, Who am I?, Government, I am the People, the Mob, The Junk Man, and To Whom My Hand Goes Out. These particular poems either spoke to me or made me laugh.The beautiful thing about Carl Sandburg's poems is that there's something for everyone. If you look hard enough, you'll find at least one that will speak to you.
This is our Chicago poet. He is us, every man. His poetry is 100 years old now and speaks clearly, inspiring and exciting our sensibilities. Sandburg shows us that we are so much more than ourselves. His style is as genuine as a heartbeat, each word like a defined hot cell of human blood forced through ventricles chambered and waiting for the pulse of their next arrival.
Some of the best poetry I've read.
Different in the fact that it's very earthy and humanistic, focused on workers and cities at the onset of the 20th century and the waking nightmare of World War II.
Sandburg perfectly evokes everything from the sand on the beaches of Normandy to the smog and steel of Chicago, but always puts the humans at the forefront and refuses to get lost in supercilious verbiage for the sake of poetics.
Very distinctly and unashamedly American - not chintzy, flag-pin, red hat patriotism, but honest love and compassion for the modest people who wake up and make this country run every single day.
Carl Sandburg was not one of my favorite poets, but I'd been in the mood for some early 20th century poetry, so I requested this book from the library. His only poem I'd remembered was "Fog," which I think every schoolchild learned in my day. But I found some new Sandburg poems to love, one of which is "Mill-Doors." If you're familiar with the history of textile mills in Sandburg's time and the way they mercilessly turned young girls into aged women, you'll appreciate the emotion he wrote into that poem.
If there's one thing that I find very hard to do, it's reviewing poetry books.
But this has to be one of the books that hold a very special place in my heart.
This book got me into writing poetry again, more than poetry guidebooks did.
I became more critical of the problems surrounding my country and other nations; and that awareness led me to write more poems.
Poems that have an intrinsic value, in my opinion, because they don't only concern me.
I don't think I can ever let go of this book - it's too special for me.
This collection gives an overview of poems from Sandburg's career.
He was a brilliant poet who deserves more recognition today (my opinion).
He wrote of life--its beauty and its disturbing ugliness--around him.
For the past few years, every April, which is National Poetry Month here in the USA, I make it a point to read poetry and I always make it a point to read some of Sandburg.
His poems are accessible and easy to understand--for those of you looking for a poet who won't leave you feeling confused and scratching your head.
If you ever want to read a collection of poems that is evocative of the time period of the poet, then this is a great selection.
The introduction by Paul Berman gives a great history of Sandburg and the poems that follow clarified everything that Mr. Berman said about him.
The poems themselves are harsh and gritty but paint a very clear picture of the people/time.
My favorite was "Prairie" from the Cornhuskers volume.
I tend to favor poetry that is more melodic and mysterious with hidden imagery but I found myself drawn to Sandburg's straight forward narration of life for a working man.
Sandburg is the true poet of the working class and belongs in the same genre as John Dos Passos. His poems really capture the heart of the working class and elevate them, especially the streetwalkers, to a tragic martydom, doomed to spread her legs in perpetual nothingness. He denigrates, in the same breath, the street corner preachers, desperate on souls for survival. All in all, he writes about society's downtrodden in such a way that he lifts them up to such great heights.
I picked this up at the library since it was on display for National Poetry Month. It's been 20 years since I've read a book of poetry. It took a little while to figure out how to read it. At first I was pausing to think too much about it, and felt impatient. Then I began to not worry about what each line, or even each poem, meant. It became much more enjoyable. I like his poetry best when it's not too polemic, though I always sympathize with his causes of justice and equality.
This new collection of Sandburg’s finest and most representative poetry draws on all of his previous volumes and includes four unpublished poems about Lincoln. The Hendricks’ comprehensive introduction discusses how Sandburg’s life and beliefs colored his work and why it continues to resonate so deeply with americans today. Edited and with an Introduction by George and Willene Hendrick.A delight to read aloud.This book was #19 on our 2016 Read-aloud list.
The monotone of the rain is beautiful,Ann the sudden rise and slow relapseOf the long multitudinous rain. The sun on the hills is beautiful,Or a captured sunset sea-flung,Bannered with fire and gold.A face I know is beautiful-With fire and gold of sky and sea,And the peace of long warm rain.
Absolutely love Sandburg's poetry, in general, I just found myself a bit disappointed with the really long poems. Many of them were just the same thing repeated over and over--both within each poem, and between them all. There is no doubt, though, that he is one of the greatest poets of the 20th century.
This is the first true book of poems I've ever read and I must say that it has perfect poems selected into one perfect book.Sandburg knows how to capture such small things and write them beautifully.Some favorites would be : - Chicago, Happiness, The Right To Grief, To a Contemporary Bunkshooter, Murmurings in a Field Hospital, Who Am I? and Theme in Yellow. Amazing :)
Sometimes you just feel like escaping from the hustle and bustle of daily life and losing yourself in a few well chosen words. Sandburg's poetry has a mid west foundation that permeates his writing. This collection was nicely done and I would definitely recommend it.
I love this guy and his poems. His work seeths with a connection to time and place. You can just tell he sought and strove to be plugged into and help shape his world. A real stand-up guy. And Eugene V. Debs' secretary, no?
Sorry to have purchased this particular collection. A very dull selection from a very exciting poet. Even the 1992 introduction by Christopher Moore is lackluster and pointless. Wish I'd taken the time to select a better anthology of Sandburg poems.
My favorite will always be Fog.
Sandburg was great at painting pictures of the America in which he lived & his response to the life he lived at that time.
I like Sandburg. His work doesn't go as deep as I like, but it was, of course, a solid read, and certainly an informational one.
Carl Sandburg is probably in my top five poets of all time.
