https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35476.Black_Elk_Speaks
These events are best understood by reading books of history and biography, but I felt the impact of their cultural trauma in a powerful way through the authentic voice of Black Elk: I did not know then how much was ended.
It was a beautiful dream.And I, to whom so great a vision was given in my youth—you see me now a pitiful old man who has done nothing, for the nation’s hoop is broken and scattered.
It’s hard to believe anyone could have told better the story of the Lakota Nation’s demise as an autonomous, proud, wise, communal, deeply spiritual and sometimes brutal culture.
Black Elk lived through the so-called “Fetterman Massacre”, the battle of the Little Big Horn and the massacre at Wounded Knee.
He even participated in Buffalo Bill’s Wild West Show and visited Paris and London where he met Queen Victoria who told the Lakota they were the most beautiful people she had ever seen.
I could see that the Wasichus [white man] did not care for each other the way our people did before the nation's hoop was broken.
This was my third time reading this book, and every time I come away with something new.
I highly recommend this to anyone studying religion.
I highly recommend this book to every single American citizen.
It should be required reading in public schools.
The Lakota people have a vibrant, exciting, living religious tradition, and the fact that Black Elk's story was recorded is a gem and a blessing.
Not only is it because of the religious tradition is this book important.
Yet, we have Black Elk's story.
Read it with awe and with reverence.
He converted to Christianity, as did Chief Joseph, Sitting Bull, and other great American Indian chiefs, that I always assumed was a kind of Stockholm Syndrome.I should mention that while the Lakota and some other tribes were known for its nature worship, not all native tribes in the US had such reverence for nature and care of "Mother Earth" as others, although that is a stereotype about Native beliefs (of course, full of differences that are hallmark across any group of complicated human culture!) I did like the Lakota claim, even though certainly "new Age-y", that we are psychologically and emotionally most healthy if we at least a few minutes a day connected with the earth - walking on paths or on the beach, etc..
Readers of Black Elk Speaks may be surprised to look up key episodes in the volume in the raw transcripts of their conversations, only to find that they were entirely invented by Neihardt.
But it does not excuse some of Neihardt's wholesale inventions - especially his deep distortions of Black Elk's "Great Vision," which altogether inverted the sense and meaning of the experience, coercing it into a frame that Neihardt apparently found more congenial to his sentiments.
Day in and day out, forever, you are the life of things.Therefore I am sending a voice Great Spirit, my Grandfather, forgetting nothing you have made, the stars of the universe and the grasses of the earth.You have said to me, when I was still young and could hope, that in difficulty I should send a voice four times, once for each quarter of the earth, and you would hear me.Today I send a voice for a people in despair.You have given me a sacred pipe, and through this I should make my offering.
I read an edition of this book which lists where the contents of Black Elk's telling of this portion of his life was greatly enhanced emotionally and symbolically by Neihardt.
Despite these added notes, however, the book is still fantastic, most of the perversion of the text being whiny, emotional additions and romantic lamentations Neihardt adds in his cultural guilt and ethical fervor.
Either way (and the scholarship is useful, ultimately) I really enjoyed the book and think it is extremely useful and valuable as a source to look into Native American Indian Culture.
The other day as I went to a car repair appointment, I arrived all misty-eyed and runny-nosed.
Black Elk speaks of the creatures with roots, legs, and wings.
I hope to read the full unabridged version in book form some day so I can copy down a few quotes.
The seven-day forecast was all temperatures over 32 degrees Fahrenheit.
Winter didn't even start until January.
Winters are getting shorter every year.
This is what we have done to this planet and continue to do.
Haters inspire people around the world.
Or they turn to some sort of spiritual world.
When the thunder storms rolled in almost daily, I heard, saw and felt the storms differently than before: with Black Elk's wisdom, I understood them as "thunder beings" — living energy, so real to the Lakota holy man because of his vision, that during the winter when there were no thunder storms, he missed and longed for his friends, the thunder beings.
In the Black Hills, with the buffalo reestablished and roaming freely, and saw and felt their power and energy in a way brought alive by Black Elk's reverence for these mighty creatures too.
The hills were brought alive by Black Elk's words, and it was the right time and place to read and absorb this spiritual classic.
I do not rate, because who rates the truth? How would you even rate it?If you're American, read this. Know whose land you walk. Know whose children's and women's bodies cover that land. The very least you can do is pay respect to their memory.
A view in which honor and dignity belongs not to the victors, but to the vanquished.“Black Elk Speaks” grants a Lakota medicine man named Black Elk a voice, and every reader an opportunity to revisit the past.
Through Neihardt’s lens the glorious past does not look as glorious, it looks downright shameful.What is “Black Elk Speaks”?It is not some fanciful romanticized Cowboys and Indians tale of the sort on which I was raised.
It is a tale of tragedy.Is “Black Elk Speaks” a fun read?
4.5Ho ritrovato questo libro tra quelli delle elementari.
Ammetto fosse una lettura insolita, ma sono certa che nell’anno in cui la maestra ce lo impose, le madri ne avranno parlato tra loro nei circoli di golf, e allora avranno pensato fosse molto chic per noi leggerlo.
E peccato, che non ne avessi capito una mazza, di sicuro.
Ok, sono scettica, credo che fosse il sogno di un bambino e nulla più, credo le suggestioni siano molto potenti in tutti.
Di come i bianchi alla ricerca dell’oro abbiano invaso le loro terre, delle battaglie e della vita di tutti i giorni.
I don't exactly know how to 'star' this book, so I won't.All of the metaphorical + verbal clichés used relative to the time period this was written in are extremely annoying to read repeatedly & makes this feel even more inauthentic & embellished than I already know it is.
Even though Black Elk's words + ideas were filtered through a translator I think more care should have been taken to not make him sound so 'white' / European, when this is already an obviously sensitive issue.
I had the tremendous experience of reading this important work while staying in the Black Hills of South Dakota and visiting the Pine Ridge Reservation, both areas described in detail.
I also met Black Elk's granddaughter Betty, a noble and kind-hearted woman who welcomes hungry travelers daily for a home-cooked meal in the small restaurant she runs out of her house on the reservation.
She told me how her grandfather dictated the book on the property and where he sat under the trees with John Neihardt.
I know I was transformed both by the experience of walking the Lakotas' sacred lands and of reading this book.
So while on the surface, Black Elk’s explicitly conscious effort to guide his life by these visions may seem particularly strange to us, it is clear that we do harbor at least some similar conventions of faith and belief.
Given the stories surrounding Black Elk’s life, one can wonder if such attunement were possible, could there be competencies involved?
While one perhaps could not change the course of history, is it possible that one could at least influence events for the benefit of one’s family and friends—as it appears Black Elk did—if one explicitly attempts to order one’s life in an “attuned” way?
That’s why I wanted to read this book, but I also believe we Americans have a responsibility to honor and listen to the heritage of the people we exterminated.
Despite that, when he gave these interviews in his late 60s, he was able to read people for what was in their hearts.
This included Queen Victoria, priests, Wild Bill Hicok, and the author, Neihardt, who was Poet Laureate of Nebraska at one time.Black Elk was a warrior by necessity, but his main role within his tribe, the Ogala Lakota, was as a visionary, medicine man, and leader.
I'm trained to be suspicious of stories like this: an old Lakota shaman decides to tell all about his previously secret visions to a white poet so he can write them in English and publish them.
The parts that really push it over the edge for me are the passages when Black Elk speaks about his heartbreak over the sense that he failed to live up to his calling as a savior of his people--the way his intensely personal spiritual experiences are completely inseparable from his historical understanding and lived experiences of famous events.
Black Elk's vision of the sacred tree and the hoop tend to go along with some of my thoughts.
However his vision was from a very masculine perspective and had only little reference to the feminine aspects.
Black Elk lived in the time of the battle of The Little Big Horn and the slaughter at Wounded Knee.
Somehow he combined the spirituality of both.
This book encourages me to read more about the Ghost Dance and learn about the Messiah that came to the Native Americans.
Did they look for a worldly or secular savior instead of a spiritual one?
Black Elk describes, with help from some old friends present during some of the interviews, the coming of white settlers to the land held by native Americans, the selling out of some tribal leaders and the consequent herding of the majority of Indian tribes into what he calls 'islands' and being ambushed and killed en masse.
It is a shocking story, and he and his friends describe the battles with white soldiers.
Black Elk and some other native Americans agreed to go to Europe for awhile to be in shows staged by some promoter.
It's hard to believe that people like Black Elk lived through a span of history that so thoroughly crushed a way of life. He lived from the time of Lakota independence, with bison enough for all and the freedom to travel the land wherever they wished, to the horror of Wounded Knee and the end of a way of life. His story is a microcosm of native destiny. Very powerful reading.
Black Elk Speaks is the life story of a Holy Man of the Oglala Sioux.
Black Elks "Great Vision" led him to become a Holy Man of the Oglala Sioux eight to nine years after receiving it.
The white man wanted the land for its gold, killed all the buffaloes that was the main source of the Native Americans food supply at the time, and even massacred many of them throughout the period of Black Elks Life.
When they met, Black Elk recognized Niehardt as the man he must teach his vision to, so that it might be saved before he died.
xix At this time Black Elk was old, going blind and he lived on the Pine Ridge Reservation where the Wounded Knee Massacre took place in 1890.
Black Elk begins by describing his childhood and his sacred vision and from there he details the coming of the white man to the Black Hills, and the battles that ensued like The Battle at Little Big Horn.
Neihardt sought Black Elk because Neihardt was writing an epic poem, and he needed to talk to an old spiritual leader that was alive during the Battle of the Little Horn and the Massacre of Wounded Knee, and who danced in the Ghost Dances.
Neihardt wrote this "life-history" of Black Elk only up to the Massacre of Wounded Knee...but that was hardly the end of Black Elk's life.
Neihardt might have had good intentions, but I believe his own reasons behind writing this life-history overshadow the life-history itself, and therefore is wrongfully denoted as Black Elk's life history.
What we are left with are the reminiscences of an aged, dispirited but honest and upright Native American who lived through the worst of our country's almost indifferent genocidal onslaught yet somehow kept his dignity intact.Black Elk relates, in astonishing detail, a vision he had while nine years old, during a long, feverish state near death.
Though told in the vision that he would be given the power to save his people and "restore the hoop of life," he could not trust that he was worthy of such a duty and let the vision lie fallow until the age of 17, when it ate into him, bringing on depression and anxiety.
In the end, the hoop lies broken, irreparable, his people caged and useless.What were these visions?
"Vous avez remarqué que toute chose faite par un indien est dans un cercle.
Nos tipis étaient ronds comme des nids d'oiseaux et toujours disposés en cercle.
Il en est ainsi parce que le pouvoir de l'Univers agit selon des cercles et que toute chose tend à être ronde.
Les oiseaux font leur nid en cercle parce qu'ils ont la même religion que nous.
La vie de l'homme est dans un cercle de l'enfance jusqu'à l'enfance, et ainsi en est-il pour chaque chose où l'énergie se meut.""Les Wasichus nous ont mis dans ces boites carrées (maisons), notre pouvoir s'en est allé et nous allons mourir parce que le pouvoir n'est plus en nous.Nous sommes des prisonniers de guerre tant que nous attendons ici.
Black Elk is risking much in revealing the sacred details of his life story to a white man, but feels it necessary in order to preserve his sacred visions and message for posterity.
Unable to turn his nation from an inevitable course of subjugation and occupation by the white man, Black Elk dies alone, in a square house on the Sioux reservation in South Dakota, believing he has lost all divine power and that he has ultimately failed to restore the blossoming tree of life within his nation’s circular hoop.
He witnessed the battles of Big Horn and Wounded Knee.
He tells his story through a translator, to the poet Neihardt.I read this in High School and again when I worked as the historian for the Pres.
Harrison was the Pres.
during the Wounded Knee battle and I needed to refresh the story and started an educational program using some quotes from this, Harrison letters, tlelgrams, news paper reports, ets.
I just felt strongly that Harrison, after reading his letters and getting to know his voice and mind, really hated that this had happened but was trapped by being a product of his time.
Black Elk grew up in the thick of it all, constantly moving away from the Wasichus with his people, watching his land disappear, and having visions about how he could help the people save their way of life.
The best part, to me anyway, is how he revealed his visions to his people and the good it did them.
It's not the feel-good book of the year, but there is a slight hope at the end.
Ernest Hemingway could learn how to write a hopeful rainy ending from Neihardt and Black Elk.
wha? i read this in a class where the blond/blue eyed professor thought he was native american.
This book is a very rare gem in that it describes the spiritual perceptions and beliefs of an aboriginal people from the inside by one of its shamans (and not some anthropologist) while that culture was still more or less intact.
Whether as a historical/anthropological reference, a spiritual treatise or just an eloquent testimony of one man's life in turbulent times, this is a book that can be read repeatedly.
