https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6732019-rework
Invite as few as possible.Divide problems and projects into pieces small enough to easily estimate time and effort required.
Make short lists to avoid feeling overwhelmed.Prioritize visually, with next task at top of list.Make attainable goals.Use tiny decisions to work through even large projects.Don't copy competitors.
Look for 6 months+ experience, but after that the learning curve flattens.Hire managers of 1 -- self-directed people who can set their own goals and reach them without help.Hire great writers.
Give applicants a brief assignment to see if they are a good fit.Damage control -- tell your customers when there's a problem.
This is another book I can't put down.
Nothing in this book is earth-shattering or amazing.
It's the little things you have suspected to be true - but someone who makes more money than you tells you is not true.
It's what you say to your friends over lunch.
I'm highlighting a sentence in almost every chapter that I want to remember.
Again - not because I don't know it - but because I don't want to forget it.
And I don't want to fool myself that it's not true just because another business book says the opposite.
When I finished it, I still have the same feeling.Maybe it's just me, but I think that if you're gonna challenge the foundations of doing business, you gotta back it up with something more that "That's how we did it, and it worked for us".The book makes a great case against all the elements of doing business (planning, raising capital, meeting, communication, workplace, organizing, etc.) but it doesn't offer strong alternative and it certainly doesn't make a strong case for the alternative that it's offering.
Хорошо, что книга небольшая (я прочел за вечер).Тем, кто все таки верит, что можно стать успешным (в данном случае вести успешный проект) быстро и просто, я рекомендую книгу (не менее известную чем Rework) Малкольма Гладуэлла "Гении и аутсайдеры"Основная мысль книги "Гении и аутсайдеры": чтобы быть успешным необходимо затратить 10,000 часов, данное правило справедливо для музыкантов, научных деятелей, бизнесменов, программистов и т.д.
Don't read this book. It is full of obvious stuff that I basically agree with but the writing style and argumentation are beyond annoying.The pattern is as follows: "Lot's of people say you can't do X. But look at us! We did X, so it is possible". For me that reads as: "Lot's of people say you shouldn't base your life's path on winning the lottery. But look at me! I won the lottery, so it is possible".Spend your 10 euros on drugs or hookers or alcohol and have some fun in life.
I deeply like such books. A compilation of wisdom that are earned through years of direct experience. The results of numerous try and error and what really works and what doesn't.
The overall argument is that we should redo how we do work (hence, "rework"); Fried et al make an argument for leaner, more flexible organizations, with few of the obvious structures of the average US company (meetings, strategic plans, etc).
While Fried convinces me that all this stuff works for 37signals (a small software company), he doesn't make any sort of real case for this being applicable to different types of organizations, especially those that have an in-person element (you can't open a retail building if you let everyone telecommute, for example) or those that necessarily work on a larger scale.Overall: a lot of preaching to the choir.
Review also posted on My Bookshelf is Ready.Is "Rework" worth it?Let me work itI put my thing downFlip it and reverse it- Maya Angelou
Structurally, however, this book suffers from the same issues I've seen in a lot of blog-to-book deals: It reads like the authors basically cobbled together a bunch of blog posts and decided, voila!
The short, vaguely promising stuff you can stick in a blog post works there because it's a short, easily readable medium.
(I know, I know, for the money--but isn't the point of this whole thing to create and promote products/services you've crafted with lots of thought and love, not just something you've shuffled together quickly because hey, all the cool kids are turning their blogs into book deals?)I definitely liked the energy and theme here, but I was annoyed by the slapdash way these blog posts were put together without any thought to going deeper into these issues.
Rework is quick and easy to read, which speaks to the philosophy the book is shilling: get things done -- which coincidentally speaks to me.Nothing in this book can be learned that can't be learned from the Signal vs.
Noise blog from 37signals.
On the contrary, it's handy to have a collection of business tips and anecdotes bound in one neat little volume.This was my first business book and I think I got off pretty easy.
It's also for developers, marketing people, accountants, pretty much anyone who wants to get things done in an efficient manner.Best white elephant steal ever!
Mượn được ở thư viện sứ quán Mĩ.Ngạc nhiên vì có nhiều vấn đề trong việc làm được tái-định-nghĩa lại một cách cực kỳ đơn giản mà hợp lý, thực dụng hơn.
Ví dụ nhé: Workaholics không có nghĩa là bạn quan tâm công việc hay bạn làm được nhiều việc.
Workaholics nghĩa là bạn làm nhiều.
tập trung...tập trung.- Hầu như long-term plan đều không thể thực hiện, hãy chọn small task.- All-nighter không có hay ho, đôi khi nó là cách ngu nhất để giải quyết vấn đề.
- Hãy thực hiện ý tưởng càng nhanh càng tốt, inspiration không phải vô hạn.- Meetings are toxic.
A very succinct summary of basic principles that should never be forgotten when aiming to succeed in business. Very well written. I am a fan of anecdotes, though and personally found that flavour wanting.

Rework is an example of the business-inspirational genre by the founders of 37Signals, a software company.
I like 37Signals because they’re straightforward, even pithy, and because founder Jason Fried has some right-on things to say about business culture, such as the stupidity of insisting that all workers come to an office and stay for eight hours, whether they are productive there or not.
Usually this format follows naturally when the author is reworking his blog into a book, which is the case here.A lot of the little chapters pretend to upend the common wisdom.
Десь місяць тому подивився інтерв'ю Саймона Сайнека про Millenials.
І багато говорив про те, що ми всі перетворюємось в допамінових наркоманів (допамін - це речовина, яка дозволяє відчувати задоволення).
Чомусь подумалось, що Re:Work - це книжка про те, як шукати допамін у складному процесі побудови бізнесу.
Почав читати і здалось, що написано в стилі "agile фулстек бізнес-тренерів" від яких вивертає.
І ще й прикладів з життя багато наводять.
І так написано, що в певні моменти хочеться сісти в якусь позу йоги і повторювати фрази як мантру.
Написано просто, багато запам'ятовується, особливо про ресторани і кухню.

I generally like books like this, but often times it is hit or miss. I don't own my own business and I'm not sure I'd want to, but this one worked for me. I enjoyed the narrator of the audio. I don't think there is just one road to success. This book points that out, but then on the other hand, they were leading the charge down their chosen road. It felt like opposing views, but I liked that they pointed that out. Some of this sounded like common sense, and some of it was cautionary. So 4 stars.
Rework by Jason Fried and David HanssonJason Fried and David Hansson are the founders of 37 Signals which is a software development company.
37 Signals was not founded on venture capital.The approach which is described in this book is contrary to many current business practices.
The authors are describing a bootstrapping and self motivated style of business practice.
I agree that working all night, having lots of meetings, and creating giant lists do not lead to being more productive.
I also like the philosophy of doing it yourself as much as possible, and breaking large projects into small pieces.The layout of this book is very well done.
Still problem is with current business practices and not with presented ideas.Reading "Rework" can be great motivator for starting work smarter (rather than harder), seeking long-term sustainable business (rather than achieving better financial results for the current quarter) and really serving customer needs (rather then trying to trick him into buying irrelevant product).There are two shortcomings of this book.
First, a lot of ideas presented here are taken from another book by the same authors - "Getting Real".
Therefore, if you have already read "Getting Real", reading some chapters in "Rework" will be deja vu experience.
I read it in a two-hour flight. Don't let the nearly 300 pages fool you. It's a quick read.Really good and insightful. It's broken into chapters, each chapter has many tips. Each tip has a one page sketch for the tip which makes it super fun to read.Recommended if you're operating a business or aspiring to.
كتاب جميل وبسيط يحوي افكارا عملية في المشاريع والمؤسسات الناشئة. هذه الافكار تسهل وتبسط التعقيد الاداري فيهاوغالبية هذه الافكار لا تنطبق على المؤسسات الكبيرة
A very quick read in which I did find a few good takeaways.
This book all about How to do business or work?, and it's gives more inspiration to the entrepreneurs and employees.--some great words : 1.U need less than U think-if u need a big office,how to share office space?..work from home for while.2.Inspiration is a fresh fruit on a milk, doesn't have expiration date.and ideas are model, its lost forever,doesn't lost forever is inspiration.3.Interruption is the enemy of the productivity.
I enjoyed every moment of reading this book, it teaches you how to simplify things to make results better.
These things take forever to make but only seconds to forget.The problem with abstractions (like reports and documents) is that they create illusions of agreement.A hundred people can read the same words, but in their heads, they’re imagining a hundred different thingsThat’s why you want to get to something real right away.
But when we actually see people, we all know exactly what they look like.Is this actually useful?
That’s no way to live.Be influenced, but don’t steal.If you’re successful, people will try to copy what you do.
You’ll know what a job well done looks like.You may feel out of your element at times.
من اول همین کتاب رو خوندم بعد ترجمه دیگه ای با عنوان باز انجام ... در کل به همه توصیه میکنم خوندنش رو تو هر قسمتی میشه براش مصداق پیدا کرد
"You need less than you think to get a business started”Instead of over planning, get your hand dirty, use that time to solve your problem build a product and sell it to at least 10 people.
Rework contradicts many of the standard business lessons found in other books, the book itself is written in a format of short powerful lessons and messages.
I personally love the style of this writing and the overall structure with very high density of content.
It can be a bit too much to digest for a reader but don't worry you can always re-read it as it's not such a long book.
I found it particularly inspiring and would without doubt recommend this book if you wanna know some of the less common ways on how to create a successful modern company.
"The myth of the overnight sensation: You will not be a big hit right away. You will not get rich quick. You are not so special that everyone will instantly pay attention. No one cares about you. At least not yet. Get used to it...Trade the dream of overnight success for slow, measured growth. It's hard, but you have to be patient. You have to grind it out. " Full of sassy and cut-the-crap-&-do-real-work advises , Rework is a must read for entrepreneurs (or as the book says, starters ).
Quite SaaSish point of view. Faster read than Lean Startup. Pretty motivating. 1-day read.
