https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/105576.Five_Point_Someone
The first time I picked up this book, it felt like I was going to do a great thing.
The boys broke into the office to leak the papers so that they could get some extra points for themselves.
They broke into the IIT's office and tried to leak papers like anything.
I mean, these guys want to end their future literally because they want to get good marks?
If it's fiction it doesn't mean you can write any crap.It isn't fit to be called a book.
Overall, I think this was the worst read ever.
What started off as an amazing debut just turned into a different career story altogether.When this book hit the stands back in the day, the craze was appreciable.
Intelligently penned, fluent story-line and a captivating simpleton thought process.This marked the beginning of the IIT inspired love pages circulating all around the country.Some good, some poor.But this one - was a remarkable debut!
The movie that followed just lit up for a tremendous script recipe.Although, if you try the same thing over and over again - it becomes damp, almost tasteless.
That is what happened with the following books honestly.
I must confess, this book is utter crap! Its an insult to English language. Its even worse than those soppy mushy crappy juvenile novels that I've seen my teenage friends gushing over!Honestly, did Bhagat ever edit his book??? Perhaps he simply didnt have any idea of what to write.
Whining 24 x 7 x 365 (not about the syllabus or study load, but about family, love, and cheating, ugh!)If I compare these guys to my father, then I either feel like something's wrong with my dad or that the author's got the IIT mentality wrong at the roots (I mean, aren't they supposed to be these demigods of intelligence?).
This is beyond preposterous and, to be fair on the IIT guys, a little insulting.All in all, the book was by far the worst read I've picked in a long while and don't think that I'll dare pick up another Chetan Bhagat novel in my life.
Picked it up out of curiosity, as I am myself a B.Tech student from IIT Kanpur, eager to learn how IIT Delhi was similar/different from my college.Found it okie-dokie, but highly un-impressive.
Must say, the writing style of american-teen novels (Agatha Christie/Hardy Boys/Nancy Drew) is much better than Mr.Bhagat's.Why even the hindi-belt crime thrillers available at north-central India's railway/bus stations are much more lucidly written with a firm plot (like Wardi Wala Gunda etcetra)Chetan Bhagat's books might have made a tiny-whiny difference to the reading habits of young Indians, as claimed by the entrenched marketers of our country, but has he really made a difference?
But does his book leave any lasting impression?
Marketing success..
5 Point Something never really looks at what the purpose of the assignments and the learning are.There has to be a purpose for learning the material and being in excellent range, other than being a mugger.
The book never mentions excellence and when it comes close to the subject only calls people topper and muggers.
Their advocate professor takes the proposal to private industry proud of its quality and confident that someone will fund further study if Ryan stays beyond to work on the study at IIT.So in the end there is excellence, an word never mentioned by the three friends.
read this god forsaken book like a zillion years ago and still couldn't get rid of the sin that I have committed.
Yes, it talks about IIT Delhi.
The book talks about a lot of places in IIT, the kind of people you meet and stuff and thats it.
And thats exactly what Mr. Bhagat did.
Wrote a book that everybody could chew and priced it within 100 rupees and boooommmmmm.....We have the new messiah in town who changed people's minds and made them read.......No he didnt.
Another great piece of trash from CB. Just because I could relate, a little bit, with the college life depicted; and because of mentioning Pink Floyd at one place; that this book has earned one extra star.
Cuốn sách cuối cùng mà mình đọc của tháng 2.Đây là cuốn sách mà lẽ ra mình định đọc cho Thử thách số 3 của Trạm Đọc - Một cuốn sách được chuyển thể thành phim, thế nhưng khi đọc xong mình quyết định là nó không liên quan gì tới phim cả, nên mình sẽ đọc một cuốn khác cho Thử thách này vậy.Nói một chút về quyển sách, mình không thích nó lắm nên chắc review này sẽ ngắn thôi.
Bollywood làm phim hay lắm.*vẫn còn tủi hờn vì cuốn sách làm mình thất vọng quá xá*
Based on the average ratings and negative reviews, I don't think I'll read it. I love " 3 Idiots " movie but I don't think the book has done any justice to the movie. Usually, the movies don't do justice to the books but in this case, it's vice versa.
Real effort to give this 'immature diary entry' of a wannabe writer my valuable one star.After such a long time I decided to review this book, just because my inner dedicated reader wanted appreciation for tolerating this horrendous piece of abomination in the name of literature.Being an IITian or alumni of any other elite institute unrelated to literature for that matter, doesn't give you a license to write such books and throw it in the face of innocent beginners who think if they read one or two such books they will gather knowledge of all kind of books that ever existed.What disgusts me is the fact that some clueless youngsters even manage to relate to these books (I seriously have no clue how they do that...Maybe they think such unrealistic things will happen to them in future or whatever).I don't remember much of the story now but I managed to recall some of the flaws that irked me the most.I just couldn't digest the discontinuous sentence structure with breaks and punctuation marks in unusual places.The other problem was the choice of weird words.
I was in class five when I first read this book.
Some of you might say that I was way too young to be reading such a book, but then we all need a break from kiddish stories once In a while in our childhood.
She was definitely in class eight or nine.
I had heard a lot about this book and so I begged the girl to let me read the book, promising her that I would take good care of It. As it turned out, the book wasn't that good at all.
In fact the movie was way better.
Utter garbage by any standard, this book is considered to polarize opinion among masses. People who have sanity left in them and have actually read some books before know that this is the stuff of toilet paper on the other extreme are dumb wannabe 'cool' guys who wanna put this trash onto their social networking profile column of books.
The story is told mainly by the POV of Hari and it narrates their four years in IIT and how they overcome their weakness and obstacles but still stick together and graduate from IIT...
I just wanted to read the novel to see what similarities it has with the movie 3 idiots.
It is a light read, without any boring details, which just makes you retrospect on your college days memories.
Overall, I would give it a 3/5.Verdict: A good read especially if you have been a college graduate at some part of your life and wanting to cherish back the memories.
Ohhh i love this book, find it quite funny at times.
An Indian book!
It’s something I can’t really relate to at all, but I know people who for them, this is the biggest decision of their lives.
And reading about it all, makes me so glad we live in the society we do.
One of the kids is a real leader and is rich, so kind of doesn’t care what happens.
The first person in this book, is a follower and does whatever the leader says.
And I don’t want to say it was the translation, because I think this book was written in English, but I am not sure.
I first read it a good six years ago and had loved it.
Six years ago i also loved Himesh reshammiya music too.(got my point now) well, earlier i was not a avid reader but now i am a voracious reader and i can say that don't read this book at all, yes if you are new in your reading phase then you might try this title or any other Chetan Bhagat books ( though all sucks big time) but still there are tonnes of amazing books you can read and save your time and money, dont go by the buzz, It is no literary masterpiece and if you even thinking of comparing it with the movie, believe me you will be very disappointed.
I was treated as a good student at my school as well as my college.
But when i was supposed to choose my career at the graduation, i asked myself what i actually wanted to be.
I knew what i wanted to be but no one was there to support me.
I wanted to be a corporate geek actually but my parents got me admitted at a dental surgery college forcefully and then when actually i was reading the book.
and after finishing the book i escaped from the college.
thats how the book influenced me.
personally i read a book for the joy of it and it would be really amazing when the author is able to create characters that does not seem like characters but real people who lives around you.
his characters are so loose that they dont even seem like characters at all.now for the story...if u only want to read a book to just spend time nothing else, u can go ahead and read this for every bit of fun he has put into it.
you will not be bored with the book and once u finish the book, you'll not want to read it again anyways.
An interesting read.
Chetan Bhagat's first book , on which the famous movie 3 Idiots is loosely based.
A must read for students vying to get to the best universities of their country.
Especially current or former Engineering students would appreciate the writers perspective.
Written from a point of view of aspiring Engineering students with hopes of a better brighter future.
Chetan Bhagat's writing style especially while introducing romanticism and life lessons in a life of engineer is worth a praise.
It's an easy read will leave you with alot of life lessons.
Good to re-read book again.
I started reading it but had some emergency issues in life to address and so could not complete it.Another reason was it reminded me of my college days and how bad i was in my grades!!!!!Next time I heard about this best selling book was when movie '3 IDIOTS' was released.
The novel which takes important issues with funny take and has fascinating plot."Five Point Someone" is story of three friends and their journey of 4 years in IIT .
Eventually group splits with alok joining "nine point someone grader" , before they unite again after one year to regroup.Hari on other hand comes across a girl(neha) who is daughter of head of department.
And the novel helped me learn more about IIT's place in India's consciousness and further appreciate the Indian cultural fondness for stories about three male BFFs. However, I found it lacked that certain out-of-control-ness that makes light reading truly fun (Carl Hiaasen and Janet Evanovich, I'm looking at you), and at times the wackiness he strived for seemed forced.
And several entire segments of the boys' lives were skipped over--whether as a literary device or because he didn't feel like making up more story, we'll never know.Five Point Someone was the inspiration for the monstrously successful Bollywood movie 3 Idiots, which I really enjoyed, so I was a bit apprehensive about the book ruining my high opinion of the film.
He writes accessible (simplistic) stories which cleverly reflect the concerns of a generation on the cutting edge of India's rapid urban development.
It's attraction for the millions who have read it lies in the way Bhagat uses these characters to reflect the challenging conflicts that face Indian youth today as they try and navigate their way into a highly competitive workforce.
Still, Five Point Someone is worth reading as an insight into the concerns of Indian youth; and it is impossible to deny that Bhagat has an ability to keep one reading through clever storytelling devices which pull you through to the final - unsatisfying - ending.
Summary The plot revolves around 3 IIT student dealing with all sorts of issues faced by the students (Romance, Drugs, Ragging etc) They try to deal with the education system and try to find a way out of it and they realize that they cannot.
Those days all I could do was praise how wonderful his imagination is, BUT BUT BUT when I actually read it back in 2011, oh how utter rubbish I realized my opinion was.
Suggested to and only those who are very new to reading or are super massively bored and just want to waste your time.
Although, I don't know anything about IIT, not even meet anyone in real life but as chetan taken me through the world of IIT with this book, I feel very close that I too was one of them.I don't why but after flipping through pages I was feeling that Am I reading or watching a bollywood movie?
Whatever, but I feel yes chetan tried to make us hooked up & yes I was.
Read it only if you are very much into bollywood movie or want to know what is IIT & how it works?
While reading this book, I learnt one lesson.
NEVER EVER watch the movie before reading the book.
The movie messed up the book for me.
I felt the friendship between the three guys a bit girlish.
Girls usually talk behind the backs (Hard truth!
They kept it inside while girls usually talk to others about it.
I felt so many parts a bit stupid.
Another thing, I was happy about is that I could complete this book within 1 day itself.
:) All in all, a good book with enjoyable parts but not so satisfying story and characters.
The story was more realistic and less overwhelming.
For starters the Ryan guy (Amir Khan's character in the book) is super smart but had the lowest GPA.
And he seemed a little immature and like a jerk and the other guy had a female opposite not Ryan.
The ending was also more realistic .
But now about the book, it was written in first person but the interesting part is it had this other people's voices, which was fun to read .
I really liked reading it and I think others should too .
Well, where should I begin?
Errr...ummm....aaaahhhh....it's like...yeah, okay!
Shoot...Bhagat is the icon of confused India.
The literary quality of his works are, at best, pedestrian.
He induces cringe in me with his shoddy juvenile logic, slapstick humour and monotonously one-dimensional characters.
It is as if he wants to get on top of Qutb Minar and yell "See, I am an IITian who can write too!!!".
He is that dumb and pompous!
I don't want to go on and on like Himesh's Radio...enough said!PS: Still, this is Bhagat's best work till date (like Ashiq banaya aapne is Himesh's); hence a couple of stars.
Collage/Uni days are one of the best days of our life .... your are struggling, having fun, making lifetime friends and building your future ... ! The book does full justice through the story of Ryan, Alok and Hari .... and its really worth a read ! But to clarify the myth - 3 Idiots (the movie) might be loosely inspired from this book ... it is still fairly different story and both (the book and the movie) can actually be enjoyed in their true forms.
