https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44458.The_Collected_Dorothy_Parker
When Parker was reportedly asked by a friend if there was anything she could do, the poetess replied: "Get me a new husband." Parker’s facetious attitude to death was reflected as much in her personal life – one prematurely dead mother, two deceased husbands and a quartet of failed suicide attempts – as in her work.
Speaking to Paris Review in her 70s Parker noted: “My verses are no damn good...terribly dated—as anything once fashionable is dreadful now.” She was of course right, at least in part, some of her work seems anachronistic, musty, but her ability to dispense with circumlocution and give naked emotion direct and with unparalleled wit is what makes her one of the greatest minds of her generation.
See some here.Dorothy Parker's poems are short and sweet, pointed and dark.
Her short stories are colourful and intense and usually leave you feeling somewhat distressed about the human condition.Her writing throughout is amazing, showing quite clearly that she has great intelligence, talent, wit, style, humour and education.
I thought I'd collect a list of books and plays Dorothy Parker loved (plays only added when the reason she liked it came down to the play itself).
Should make for some good reading later!I read this book very slowly, taking in one short story, review or a few poems in each day over lunch.
Parker's acerbic stories, poems and criticism are collected here with all the power of an untamable progressive voice grating against patriarchy, directly and indirectly. I found her legendary reviews a fascinating historical document. Zadie Smith, in her laudatory essay on Katherine Hepburn, quotes Parker's immortal comment 'she ran the whole gamut of emotions from A to B' in qualified agreement. But though Parker was as unyielding in criticism to her fellow women as to men. I see her as one of the innumerable great workwomen at the coalface of emancipation.
I wish I was Dorothy Parker. THE END.
היו אלה מפגשים שנמהלו בהם דחייה ועונג מוזר המתעוררים בקרבינו תמיד במגע עם השונה.מקום המפגש השני, חדש יותר ואפוף הילה של איכות חמקמקה, לא נועד למטרות ספרותיות באופן בלעדי, אך פה ושם ניתן היה להתגפף שם עם יצירה ספרותית זו או אחרת – מדובר כמובן בשיעורי לימוד השפה האנגלית.
בכל אופן, התחלתי להתנסות בקריאה רצינית בשפה האנגלית רק לקראת סוף הלימודים בחטיבת הביניים ולכן נלוותה אולי ללימודי הספרות שבמסגרת לימודי השפה האנגלית מן תחושה (כמה טיפשי נראה כעת הדבר) שמדובר בדבר עמוק יותר, שונה ואיכותי יותר – הדבר האמיתי, חף מתיווכם של תרגום ושל פרובינציאליות תרבותית.אחד הסיפורים שקראנו במסגרת שיעורי האנגלית ושדווקא מצאו חן בעיני היה הסיפור הידוע The standard of living.
מצד שני כמה ביקורות ספרים כבר ניתן לקרוא אם אין בהן ערך ממשי?
Her verse can be good and her stories can be great, but it’s Parker’s journalism that’s truly extraordinary.
She turned reviewing into an art form, increasingly using some recent book as a jumping off point for a ruthless, coruscating comic sketch radiating her caustic, devastating wit.I don’t mean for it to sound like she’s hard to live with as a writer, though: putdowns were only a twentieth of Parker’s repertoire, and her most brutal assessments are always of herself (or A.
A. Milne).
Acerbic, rapier-sharp wit and clever word play at its absolute best.I can't wait to read a book so egregious that it warrants the use of Parker's witticism, "This is not a novel to be tossed aside lightly. It should be thrown with great force" in my review.If, like Parker, your motto is, "If you haven't got a good word to say about anyone, come sit here by me" then you'll surely love the witty put-downs, sharp one-liners and cleverly crafted gags contained within her collected articles, reviews and poems.
Brilliant, witty, funny, poignant and touching. I prefer her poetry and articles to her short stories, but that's just personal preference. An absolute must read.
It consist of short stories, poems, book- and play reviews and some other articles.
Surprisingly, I loved the book reviews.
Despite not knowing any of the books reviewed, they were all really funny, I laughed out loud several times and had difficulties putting the book down.
I didn’t much bother for the plays, but the books - I’m really thinking of buying The Collected Dorothy Parker one day, just so I can underline and mark all the wonderful quotes, and there were a lot!
This collection of Dorothy Parker wit and wisdom, insight and lark that I read was not the well known 'Portable Dorothy Parker' which I had been after, but something better and more extensive, 'The Collected Dorothy Parker'.This book includes the contents of the portable but with added stories and then play reviews, book reviews and articles towards the end.I have to say that I wasn't overly keen on the poetry; I am decidedly an un-fan of poetry that rhymes, it just doesn't flow in a flattering way in my head, but there were one or two that I could make an exception on, I'm sure Dorothy Parker would be so pleased!
so dark and witty, brilliantly sad.
That life is bittersweet.
Desperate Women, Indifferent Men
Yes, she's amazing. Sharp, funny, the most lovely cutting sentences I've ever read. But must she hate women so much? Every once in a while there's a despicable or silly male, but every story contains a ridiculous woman.
Should be required reading for anyone thinking of writing anything consisting as it does of classic short stories, amazing poetry and quite interesting reviews.
The stories were alright but some poems were exceptional.
Sharp and funny but insubstantial. Good for Sunday nights maybe.
Yet they all owe her something as a template and a role model, a clever woman with an excellent business head, but more importantly a sharp eye and deft pen.Mrs Parker is thoroughly anthologised here and for those who know her only for her epigrams ("If all the starlets in Hollywood were laid end to end, I wouldn't be surprised.") and pithy put-downs (on being told of the death of President Calvin Coolidge, she remarked, "How can they tell?") then this is a helpful reminder that there was more, much more than a bitchy aside or catty rejoinder.Dorothy Parker didn't so much exorcise her demons as grab them by the hand and run round the block with them.
I don't remember how it seemed 20+ years ago, but on this reading few of Mrs Parker's short stories impressed me.
So, I skipped to the reviews, and found myself more interested in the plays themselves, even the ones I hadn't heard of before.
I must look for a good biography, and try to find out how someone as bright as Parker became so unhappy.AddendumI take it all back!
I've moved on to the book reviews and found myself sniggering, and then chuckling and then laughing out loud.
Mrs Parker had a wicked wit and no patience with mediocrity.
This collection is mostly made up of Parker's short stories, poems and play/book reviews.I didn't finish, because I got bogged down early with her short stories.
I found the criticisms there were far too apt, and the obvious flaws, once pointed out, difficult to get past.I had more success with the reviews, Parker has a light, engaging funny tone.
However, there are lots of current writers in newspapers and magazines doing the same, with the same or similar engaging tone, so it didn't feel as though I was getting something here that I couldn't get somewhere else.
Very enjoyable read, I would advise people who have a good sense of humour to read this collection of Dorothy Parker writings.
Prose so sharp you'd slice your eye just from glancing at the page.
Because as everybody knows, Dorothy was never anything but collected.Short stories - some of which are so perfect that they made my heart hurt.
One made me sigh out loud in the dentist surgery because of its ending.
Funny, acerbic, and something that is very rare, I think - women written well.
Not all the stories are perfect, but when they are good they are very, very good.
The book reviews answer all of my questions about how to write a book review that has the personality of its author but isn't a massive critical ego trip.
The poems are hit and miss, but in the context of their time, quite groundbreaking I think...
It is a delight being able to read stories from long ago that are still fresh.
Most of these are still very much of their time, but the emotional foibles Parker chooses to dissect may unfortunately be universal and timeless.
It would be nice to think these needy jealous insecure neurotic women, and the callous vain shallow men they desperately desire are products of gender roles we have outgrown.
The scenery and language may have changed, but I could still think of contemporary examples for most of these short stories.The book reviews were also a delight - It made me wish Parker was alive and well and posting modern tirades to Good Reads Reviews.
Really enjoyed this.
Some of Mrs. Parkers best stories and poems are collected here - Frustration, Lullaby, LoveSong and Resume, all the greats!
Dorothy Parker (nee Rothschild) was a witty writer and a woman of excess.
Her star rose in the heady 1920's when she hung out with other writers, actors and critics of the New York set known as the Algonquin Round Table.
You've got to take your time with this book, I think most people would enjoy the poetry, many of her stories are autobiographical and some of her play and book reviews are absolutely scathing.
A great collection, interesting lady and gifted writer.
It's so hard to give this collection just one rating. Some part especially her poetry and some of her stories are amazing, but some parts not so much and the play- and book reviews I couldn't even make myself complete. But I love her style of writing, she is fantastic sharp and to the point, you never feel there is something lacking in what you read. Oh I love her sharp points they really hit the head on the nail, you can't help but to say to yourself "yes! This is just right"
I expected to love this but I got the feeling from the stories that Dorothy Parker doesn't like women very much. Her female characters were written so unflatteringly and with very little compassion. In fact, I misplaced this book halfway through the last story and didn't even bother trying that hard to find it. Despite the fact that scathing wit is usually my favourite thing to read, I was disappointed by these stories.
Whether writing short stories, poetry or book or theater reviews, Dorothy Parker boiled her topics down to their universal formula, to those few basic elements that compose similar such topics in our own lives. Through the critical eye of a sardonic humorist, however, these observations of human behavior and motivation strike us as absurd, hypocritical, even repulsive - far from flattering and uncomfortably close to home.It's funny because it's you.
This is a wonderful book to dip in and out of every so often. It's filled with pretty much everything Dorothy Parker ever wrote, and I loved it all. Her sharp-witted short stories, her poems, her reviews of plays and books, articles she wrote for the New Yorker and Esquire. In my eyes, she was a fantastic journalist and writer.
I'm not generally a fan of poetry, but the sarcastic tone of Parker's poetry makes it appeal to me! Her personal cynicism filters into all of her work in this collection, and some of the stories are particularly comical due to this. At some points her work can seem slightly depressive and pessimistic yet the way it is written just makes it brilliant from my point of view.
