https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/396988.The_Rains_Came
A gigantic best-seller in its time, unjustly forgotten -but weirdly enough, still popular in France (another of those American novels I read in French at the time).
A tale about imperial India written by a writer who deserves to be remembered - not only because he knows how to write an intelligent popular novel and tell a story packed with characters, plots, adventures and exotic landscapes, but also because he actually really has something to say about India, a country that was then at a turning point of its history.
The heroine, Edwina, remains a fascinating character.
I had this book on my shelves for almost an year now and always picked something else instead of it.
It was a great read and all the characters developed extraordinary.
You can see in this book how people truly are, when they cannot put the masks anymore, when they are faced with real life crisis.
Also, the author did great job describing the catastrophe that hit the region, you can feel the tension and desperation that surrounds Ranchipur and you are amazed by the solidarity that people show.
Fern all'inizio del romanzo è una ragazzina un po' superficiale che vive in un mondo tutto suo per sfuggire alla vita di facciata impostale dalla madre (moglie dell'altro missionario americano, decisamente più mondano di Smiley), perbenista quanto arrivista, che cerca in tutti i modi di "accasarla" con uno dei giovani e vuoti borghesi che frequentano i suoi tè.
Louis Bromfield, a prominent author before WWII, now largely forgotten, wrote popular novels and championed organic agriculture and socialism. This long, fast moving novel, set in a princely state in India in the 1930s, follows the intersecting lives of American missionaries, British bureaucrats, Indians from all walks, and European expatriates as they cope with a severe earthquake and ensuing flood and cholera outbreak. The plot was compelling, the characters believable, and the descriptions resonant. My main quibble: too much socialist philosophizing, especially toward the end.
This book was an incredible read. Thank you, GR, for directing me to it, and to an author new to me. It was long, but compulsively readable, with a great cast of characters and so many insights into human nature. I just loved it!
I finished this about a week ago. I love to read the great forgotten authors and in my opinion Bromfield is one of the best. If you enjoy reading Hemmingway, you would also love Bromfield.
Parte decisamente a rilento, un po' come se il caldo indiano ti piombasse addosso rendendo soporifera la lettura.A Ranchipur non accade quasi mai nulla, tutto verte intorno alle condizioni climatiche e alla interminabile attesa della stagione delle piogge.
Si ammazza il tempo fra incontri e cene che vedono riunita una selezione della comunità inglese e americana perfettamente integrata alla gente del luogo, un variopinto e particolarmente interessante gruppo di persone che racchiude medici, missionari, politici e ricchi annoiati.Poi immrovvisamente reallizzi, con l'impatto al suolo della prima grossa goccia di pioggia, che i tempi sono stati perfettamente calcolati dall'autore.Le prime piogge del Monsone lavano via la noia, gli abitanti di Ranchipur sembrano destarsi a nuova vita e, proprio come la vegetazione del luogo, crescere a dismisura gettando nuovi germogli.
One of my favorite books. I read it about once a year.
One of my favourite all time books. Such a great one, with such an unfolding of characters and depth of feelings. Really recommend it.
I liked this book very much.
The author was complete stranger to me, I found the book on the shelf among other old ones (old editions) in a private library and I do not regret picking it.
The facts about life in India accord with what I had read in a "travel" book of Czech author who lived in India for quite time later in the 20th century - he worked there when he was young as a volunteer at Service Civil International.
It seemed much as repetition of the story in "Rains" and I put the book away after several tens of pages.
Loved it. Read because of a 1938 film I liked of the same title. The story and characters were so interesting I looked up the book. Out of print but got a used copy on Amazon. Basically an early "Disaster" film genre set in British occupied India. Learn lots about life in India in those times and the world in general. Much racier than the film (of course - thanks to the Catholics and the Production Code). Long but very interesting and the bizarre "fun" of seeing who survives the various natural disasters.
One of the most beautiful and moving narratives of India I ever read while in high-school. Back then I really was passionate about anything that had to do with India, being pretty much under the spell of Mircea Eliade:). This was one of the best novels about it, and I still think it's very well-written.I especially like the multiple story-lines and the simple, not very in-your-face cultural otherness observations. The tragic love story also helps making the novel more moving, of course:).
Un romanzo a cui sono affezionata, anche se non ha grossi pregi se non una scrittura scorrevole, ed una storia fluidissima. L'ho letto la prima volta da ragazzina, e poi l'ho riletto per almeno altre 4-5 volte, tutte le estati. La storia di Ramsome, scafato e disilluso, della ricca, nobile, annoiata Edwina e dei loro amici nella Ranchipur degli anni '30 o mi ha sempre affascinato.
I read this book a long time ago, and re-read it 3 times I think. Imperial India, a flood following to an earthquake, very interesting characters, quite romantic, a really interesting description of the life of different type of English and Indian characters. It reads like a nice story and is also so interesting. One of those books you do not like to put away before you finished it.
This is the story of people from various backgrounds and how a natural disaster devastates their community and brings out their best and worst natures. There are cultural clashes and romances and lives are forever changed. I have to watch the movie again. I don't remember how well it follows the book.
Doamne ce imagini sunt descrise la finalul volumului! De-a dreptul spectaculoase. 9 mii de oameni au fost striviti si inecati in cateva secunde dupa prabusirea barajului din Ranchipur ca urmare a producerii unui cutremur, care a atras dupa sine un torent imens ce a maturat totul in jur.
The first-edition publication I inherited from my grandfather (now lost) but a brilliant read and an eternal favourite.
Gorgeous book - enjoyed it tremendously. Could hardly put it down (making it a poor choice for exams period but hey).
Like gone with the win, but in India. Although the story could have included more background on India, the story has some twists and turns and is an epic story of life and love.
Brilliant book written by someone who loves an understands that country and its people and accepts it with their merits and flaws. Loved every sentence of it!
Very enjoyable and readable. Charmingly dated some parts and Some of the language not very politically correct nowadays
the book was amazing.must read for all.the characters are complete and satisfying read.i can empathize with all the characters and the book left me in tears...
I love this author. Especially the psychological portrait of all his characters and the story development. He's great. I think is a pity that have not published all his books in Spanish.
Way ahead of its time. Fascinating. Hard to believe this book doesn't carry on.
Ensimmäiset 250 sivua (ensimmäinen osa) saivat ajattelemaan että luen loistavaa kirjaa joka on täynnä elämänviisautta ja loput 250 sivua (toinen osa) olivat täyttä Barbara Cartlandia. Mikä pettymys!
I was transfixed, enamoured and scandalised all at once. One of my all times' favourites.
Written way back in 1937, this "Novel of Modern India" has everything!
Great plot, excellent characterizations, sweeping history, drama, romance and humor.
It's no wonder it was made into a movie, in 1939, Hollywood's Golden Year, with a somewhat simpler plot and fewer characters.
I saw the movie first, starring Myrna Loy, Tyrone Power (as an Indian!) and George Brent, with a stellar supporting cast.
Then I was lucky enough to find a hardback on E-bay with the stars of the film on the back of the dust jacket!
I highly recommend both the book and the movie.
Good old-fashioned entertainment.
Un capolavoro, anni che nn leggevo un romanzo così toccante,delizioso, sconvolgente e violento....sembra impossibile che tutti questi aggettivi possano stare insieme ma è così.Una perla rara letta da pochi, libro scovato per caso nella lista dei libri suggeriti dalla mia prof di greco al liceo nei primi anni 90. che emozione!
Amazing! One of the best reads so far! This book threw me in the heart of India without a warning. The characters are all well developed and you cannot not like them! The story seems simple yet it’s complex. It just flows. And you feel the wild spirit of India and its people!
better read something else
