https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/126499.Bloodhype
This is my first real hiccup when reading the series in chronological order, but fortunately, it's not too bad.
We still get huge action and stakes and uneasy alien alliances and a close up of the really big bad we've been teased with for the first eleven books.But here's the funny bit: Pip and Flinx are minor characters!
It's not bad in absolute terms, just bad if you're wanting a real Flinx adventure where he's center stage.Enter a really nasty and lethal drug, piece-of-work dealers, super-spies who are aliens, privateers, questionable alliances with nasty reptiles, and a ton of action.
Read it even if you are not a Flinx and Pip fan.The Vom, an evil entity of immense power and ability traveled into a galaxy controlled by the Tar Aiym thousands of years before the events of the novel.
The VOM however then had no matter to digest and was forced by a special Tar-Aiym merged with a machine entity and guardian ships to never leave, where the VOM was stuck.Thousands of years go by, and the AAnn, a reptilian galactic rival of humanity comes across this derelict rock and finds the VOM.
When you read the series in chronological order, rather than publishing order, like I am, this causes some strange side-effects.A lot of the character development our hero has undergone in previous/future books suddenly disappears, which is quite jarring.
Man, this is as bad as trying to talk about time travel!Additionally, Foster has chosen to make Pip and Flinx background characters in their own series, with the majority of the action focusing on three new protagonists.
The fate of the entire galaxy hangs in the balance!In other words, like the rest of the series, it's a lot of fun and doesn't take itself too seriously.
This one always seemed to break characterization for me, but I did enjoy significant portions of it.My biggest frustration - series wide, not just this book - is that things don't remain consistent: Antidotes that do or do not exist, for example.
What others don't know is that the organism is actually capable of ending all life on whatever planet it lands on, and possibly intergalactic travel.While Pip & Flinx do show up later on, the main characters are Kitten Kai-Sung and Porsupah who are tracking the Bloodhype, Dominick Rose the drug dealer, and Captain Malcolm Hammurabi who gets involved as his ship was used in the transport.
In addition, as a Pip & Flinx book this feels totally out of place with the rest of the series.
When I first read this book thirty years ago I enjoyed it hugely, and it was with some excitement I planned to re-read it. There are elements which it builds into his commonwealth series that I still really enjoy, but I find the treatment of his principal female character a little more troubling than I used to, hence a reduction in the star rating from 4 to 3 compared to what I would have given thirty years ago.
Flinx from afar.Very different Flinx book, primarily written in numerous POVs, non of which were Flinx's. In fact Flinx doesn't appear until several chapters into the book. Was a excellent plot, but the numerous changes of view point were sometimes annoying. Was a interesting idea but didn't completely make it. Also missed Flinx although he was there, you were seeing him through the eyes of the other people which gave him a remoteness. Still enjoyed it a lot.
Secondo in ordine di pubblicazione ma 11° in ordine cronologico. Il libro tratta marginalmente Pip&Flinx, in quanto pare fosse partito come un romanzo al di fuori della serie.Intrattiene come solo certa fantascienza leggera sa fare, consigliato agli amanti di genere alla ricerca di una lettura estiva.
La alettura di questo romanzo breve è stato come un bagno fresco nel mare in estate: un piacere per la mente e per il corpo, affaticati da mesi e mesi di distopie e tetraggini (anche se molte di ottimo livello). Alieni, colpi di scena, mondi alieni, scontri spaziali, il minidrago Pip, insomma la space opera ad un livello molto elevato. Una lettura meravigliosa, come altre di quest'autore!
I really like fosters writing style it is a comfortable read that is the best way I can term it, I first read this story ( books 1-2 and 3 ) when I was 8 to 9 years old and I noticed that now he has published many stories from pip & flinx which I will want to read this is a great series to read for its science and fantasy elements
Libro molto particolare, come la maggior produzione dell'autore. Trama instricata e che non stanca, con parecchi personagi interessati che emergono nel proseguio della storia. Miè piaciuto molto.
I'm thoroughly enjoying reading the entire series from the beginning. This is another imaginative, fast paced, fun tale.
So. Think your a stoner?
It's like someone just gave him money and said "My only qualification is that Flinx makes an appearance at least once." This is the last Foster book I will ever read.So the plot is basically the Blob, known as the "Vom", and parts of the story are written from the Vom's point of view.
There's a group of cheesy characters- a fat and sarcastic ship merchant Captain Mal, a sexy/voluptuous/horny secret agent temptress (literally) named Kitten, and a portly hedgehog type alien that doesn't seem to do much except disapprove of Kitten's hijinks.
Foster pretty much slams his foot on the accelerator on the opening page and doesn't let off until the denouement.
Foster still hasn't got the hang of interesting female characters in this, his second novel.
The first concerns a pair of Church agents taking down a particularly nasty drug (the bloodhype of the title), the second the discovery and an ancient, evil alien powerful enough to threaten the Commonwealth and even the Galaxy.
Foster does an pretty good job of conveying the ancient alien's point of view - but, like the protagonists, it's pretty two-dimensional (quite literally, at the start of the book).
This does cause a few storyline inconsistencies, such a Pip changing gender.The overall story is that an ancient monster, the Vom, capable of consuming all life on a planet, is woken by some scientists and transported to the world of Repler.
One of the Tar-Aiym, an ancient warrior race who was supposed to be guarding the vom enlists Flinx's aid in dealing with it.
The whole bloodhype drug thing is really just a side plot.Flinx uses his powers and has them expanded in this book, which is one of the reasons I like it.I wanted for Flinx to develop and use his psionic talents.
Avoid this book.If you like the Pip and Flinx books, there is no reason to read this installment.
The main characters of this title are new and unimportant.
You will only see them in this book.Pip and Flinx hardly make an appearance in this book.
Everything that happens in this book is barely even mentioned in any other books.In this book Flinx contends with a mob boss.
A stupid one.
You are better off reading Trouble Magnet.
In which Flinx contends with a mob boss, but that book is more interesting.Some neat ideas are in this book, some with great potential.
Like many other people, I read this book tenth as opposed to second.
I did notice the little inconsistencies, but I'd say that they were quite acceptable given the fact that Foster wrote eight books to fill in the gap.
It was easier to pretend this was a slightly alternate universe where basically the exact same things happened.I enjoyed seeing Flinx from other people's points of view for the majority of the story as just a side character.
Overall, the book had the feel that Foster had a story he wanted to tell, as opposed to book nine where I felt he had some space he wanted to take up.
The Vom is found and brought to Repler by Aann scientists in secrecy. Meanwhile the Commonwealth Church is trying to uncover who's dealing Bloodhype, a drug to which you were instantly addicted to, and you'd die from if you didn't get helped in a very short time after taking it. Agents Kitten Kai-Sung and Porsupah-al along with their saviors Malcolm, Pip, and Flinx are also about to meet the Guardian, Peot.
This was the third book by Foster that I read, after Nor Crystal Tears and Tar-Aiym Krang. It's the second Flinx & Pip book, and the second Flinx & Pip book that I read. Again, I really enjoyed the book and was quite entertained. I love Foster's writing style. He keeps you interested and in suspense. I love his creativity and his ideas. I have to admit, this book was a bit of a "shaggy-dog story". I could see what was going to happen at the end from a long way off.
I've given this author trhee strikes, and he's out! When the title characters of the series don't even show up until 50 pages into the second book about them, absolutely NO exposition is given, subtly or overtly about how they got from their old situation into the new one, and the synopsis on the back bears only a vague resemblane to the plot of the story, I've just got to give up on an author. The premis could have been cool, too bad.
I'd call myself a Casual fan of Alan Dean Foster... I loved the 'Spoils of War' series, and have read a couple other Pip and Flinx books. This one fits right in, although if you really like the characters, they really make only a cameo.The main character, Kitten, is a fun, tongue in cheek Bond-Girl tribute, and the book offers alot of insight into usual Commonwealth foes the Aan. A must read if you like the series, and a fun, quick beach book even if you don't.
With each Foster book I read, I become a bigger fan. This is the 2nd written book in the Pip and Flinx series, although the 11th chronologically. A little dated what with the casual 70's approach to sex, but overall I enjoyed it despite Flinx being a supporting character. I'd actually like to see more of the lead characters. Not great literature, but a fun read with a good plot.
I first read this - and many other AD Foster books - about 20 years ago, and this book doesn't seem as good second time around - perhaps I am reading it through rose tinted glasses?Whatever, I will not be put off! I will read AD Fosters other offerings in the hope that they are as good as I remember!
I read this wondering why it turned up in my Flinx hunt, I enjoyed the book then realised this other character they met was flinx and he was right through the whole thing, so much fun! and well worth a read.
An amusing sci-fi tale and my first introduction to the world of Pip and Flinx... even if those characters only appeared for a tiny section of the novel. The VOM was an interesting being, and I enjoyed the universe.3.5 stars
Alan Dean Foster is one of my top 5 favorite writers, and the commonwealth books are my favorite works. These are great quick reads, you are almost done before you realize you started. Flinx & his pet dragon Pip are great heroes. Very recommended
Fun mix of mystery, intrigue and monsters!A great story, stating Pip and Flinx, though almost in an offstage way. It's read this long ago, and enjoyed it all over again. Foster's humanx commonwealth is a great invention that deserves to be better known!
I enjoyed this novel, but didn't realize that I read the series out of sequence until after I finished this novel. Once I finish all the Pip and Flinx between The End of the Matter and Bloodhype, I'll re-evaluate this novel.
I have always felt that none of the later books were quite as good as the first although this is probably my next favourite
