https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21495.The_New_Centurions
Serge Duran, Gus Plebesly, and Roy Fehler are classmates at the police academy and take to the streets after graduation.
But will being police officers be as they thought?The New Centurions follows the lives of three young men for five years, starting from their police academy days and into the Watts riots of 1965.
I was expecting a simple cop story but got so much more.Joseph Wambaugh was a cop before he was a writer and it shows.
People fall in love, have kids, get divorced, have drinking problems, it's all there.The New Centurions deals a lot with how the police view the people they're protecting and vice versa.
My father was a career police officer for twenty-four years.
Like many other cops (and non police as well) during that time period my father loved his work.
To begin with Wambugh was a officer with the Los Angeles Police Department (1960-1974) when The New Centurions came out.
I've been a police officer for twelve years and I can testify that there is a grit in his details that can only come from having been a cop for many years.
Second Wambaugh wrote about three ordinary police officers.
The New Centurions shows this aspect of police work.
The New Centurions was his first book, which he wrote while he still worked as a Los Angeles Police Detective.
This story takes you to the dark side when one of the cops gets shot, and later, during the race riots.If you want the real story on what lies behind the badge, this book is a must read.On a personal note, Joseph Wambaugh was my inspiration, and has given me some personal advice for my own writing.
Joseph Wambaugh was a police officer himself and whilst still working in the force he was secretly writing a new type of crime fiction novel that was grounded in truth.
What remains in common for Plebesly, Fehler and Duran is that the job can easily wear them down.Having also recently read Don Winslow’s ‘The Force’ is was interesting to compare too books that look at police culture and the fact that corruption is just a given.
Three young police officers can only watch as their lives are changed by the chilling realities of the job. Published in 1970, this unflinching novel utilizes mesmerizing characters to grapple with a number of deeply rooted issues that are still hotly debated to this day.
Written by Wambaugh in the late 60's when he was a young policeman, it is free of any and all of the political correctness and tolerance taken for granted now by most of us; poor African Americans, Latinos, gay men, lesbian women are dangerous animals, criminal deviants and the game of the hunter, namely, the “paddy blue eyed motherfu….ers.” In Wambaugh’s eyes his three protagonists are vulnerable, well-intended soldiers just trying to survive the random terrors of police work and make retirement, set just before the Watts riots in Los Angeles.
Intense!
That's my single word sum-up of this novel.
Following three rookie L.A. police officers from 1960 through the Watts Riots, it is brutally honest about attitudes toward race.
It also shines a light on L.A. neighborhoods that very few people, outside of those neighborhoods, know anything about.
It's the small details that make this book so compelling, as the officers patrol the Hollenbeck, Central and Hollywood Divisions.
Of great interest to me were the bits and pieces on Boyle Heights, one of L.A.'s most historically fascinating neighborhoods.
Wambaugh was an L.A. police officer for fourteen years, starting in 1960, and his powers of observation are enviable.

Intriguing premise, written by a former cop and all. But the language is way too dated, as is the racism and homophobia. I sort of gave up after the vice squad chapters. Some books hold up over time. This one did not.
The New Centurions, was one of three full-length fictional works Wambaugh wrote while still working in law enforcement in the 1960s; it follows three young men through their police training and early years on the LAPD force, with their fifth year of service coinciding with the historic Watts (California) race riots of Summer, 1965.
The novel, in which Wambaugh narrates almost equal parts promise, resignation, and tragedy, is a good example of police during a pervious era.
It pictures day-to-day police work in a large U.S. city in the mid-20th century, an era when respect for diversity was sadly, sorely lacking but soon to become an essential part of police training.
Joseph Wambaugh, a former cop turned author, is one of the fathers of the police procedural genre, or so the internets lead me to believe.
This, his first novel, is set in L.A. in the 1960s, and follows three young cops from their police academy graduation up through the Watts riots in the mid-60s.
It's a cool concept for a book, and there were interesting nuggets of police work scattered throughout.It also feels really dated, particularly the conversations about race, where everyone (particularly the few black characters) refer to the problems and issues of "the negro" (oy).
I first read this book in 1988 as a college student studying literature and journalism.
The transitions experienced by the characters were so realistic, I decided I needed similar life experiences to draw from if I wanted to be successful as a writer.
After spending nearly 25-years in federal law enforcement, I've been filled with a cache of encounters and experiences with real people as vulnerable yet successful at survival as Wambaugh's.
characters.
I do not doubt his characters are a amalgamation of former co-workers and of himself.
As a book, The New Centurions inspired me.
As a writer, Joseph Wambaugh mentored me.
The New Centurions by Joseph Wambaugh (Dell Centurions 1970) (Fiction - Mystery). It is 1950. The master storyteller, the man who created the genre of "police procedurals," is here with a tale about the trainees in the ranks of New York City cops. They will learn everything they need to know to survive on the streets. This is the tale of their training. My rating; 7/10, finished 1986.
This was a reread for me, first read about 40 years ago when it was published.
During those years, the public was more used to the Hollywood version of the LAPD portrayed in shows like "Dragnet"and "Adam-12." The police officers in The New Centurions are very human adjusting to the demands of police work, dealing with marital stress, alcohol abuse, and even suicide all while encountering some of the worst elements of humanity like child abusers.
I still enjoyed reading it, but had to keep in mind that a novel is a reflection of a certain time and place.
Racism is reflected in some of the great works of John Steinbeck and Ernest Hemingway, but we still appreciate their novels as great writing.
A gritty window into the 1960's life at the street level.Read for personal interest and research.
I found this work of immense interest and its contents helpful and inspiring.Overall, this work is also a good resource for the researcher and enthusiast.From ebok: "Ex-cop turned #1 New York Times bestselling writer Joseph Wambaugh forged a new kind of literature with his great early police procedurals.
Here in his classic debut novel, Wambaugh presents a stunning, raw, and unforgettable depiction of life behind the thin blue line.
But for these men, these new centurions, time is an enemy.
Picked up the book as I browsed through the bookstore.
Began to read the introduction by Michael Connelly.
His praise for Wambaugh was such that I couldn't pass up the book.
It was a quick, easy, great read.It begins the first couple of chapters as several rookies are finishing the police academy.
The book covers their first 5 or 6 years on the job in Los Angeles by relating various incidents in which they are involved.
It shows the good and bad of police life, especially it seems, concentrating on their weakensses and fears.
I will be reading more of Wambaugh.
The best James Wambaugh created the genre. He did it because he worked asa cop and wrote as a cop. His characters feel real because he draws upon his experience with people. Here fifty years later his take on society rings true
Rings true about being a copEven though written about the early 60's it still rings true. Written episodically it tell the stories of three LA policeman. If you want to see the world as a policeman sees it you should read this. I doubt that it's lost any relevance.
I was referred to this novel as an accurate portrayal of police behavior in the late 20th century. I believe it is.
Extremely good.
funny story
Excellent book. Although it was written some years ago it didn't date too badly. It has encouraged me to read more Wambaugh
Read back in the 70s
Author Wambaugh, ex-cop turned best seller author, owned L.A. police procedurals in the 1970s.
This 1970 entry was his sparking debut.Police Novels - In a class of new police recruits, Augustus Plebesly is fast and scared.
In months they'll know how to interpret the mad babble of the car radio, smell danger, trap a drug dealer, hide a secret, and-most of all-live with the understanding that cops are different from everyone else.
But for these men, these new centurions, time is an enemy.
And before they can grow old on this job, they'll have to fight for their lives
This was Joseph Wambaugh's first book and demonstrates why he has had a long and much praised career.
This book follows the careers of three police officers from the police academy thru the first five years of their service - ending with the Watts riot in 1965.
We see Serge learn to appreciate his Hispanic heritage, and we see Roy humbled by the job, realizing that police work can be a good and necessary thing.This is a brilliant book - we see police work not thru the solving of a specific crime but thru the episodic nature of day to day lives of officers on the job.
All his works are a learning experience, providing insight into people, their qualities, faults and thoughts.
Perhaps because he was able to provide portraits of people to encourage understanding, I have always remained a huge fan.
So I recently began to re-read some of his work to once again find the inspiration he sparked so very long ago.One caution, his books were written before political correctness ruled, so the terminology could be offensive to some people.
This was a time when terms were used in a manner we wouldn't think of today but were not intended to demeaning.
The New Centurions, Joseph Wambaugh (3)Joseph Wambaugh is highly respected as an author of very ‘real’ fiction, specifically concerning inter-city police drama.
This book follows three police rookies in LA just prior and during the famous Watts riots.
Each section has three chapters (one first person for each officer) and skips a year for each section.
You follow the three from the academy through their first four years of policing.
Since this was one of his earlier novels, I expect it is appreciated for its raw portrayal of everyday life of rookie policemen, which was new and fresh in the 1970s.
One of the reviews for my book Superbia said, "Step aside Joseph Wambaugh." I'm here to say that can never be the case.
I read this book on duty as a young cop, and it really had an impact on me.
Not just for the sake of the book, but for the fact that someone actually found a way to take all of the insanity that goes into The Job and turn it into literature.
I wouldn't be doing what I do now if it weren't for Wambaugh, and in particular, this book.
I usually really like cop books, even old ones, but this one was a little disappointing.
I guess you can never get to know the characters in a single book like you do in a series, but I was at least half way through the book before I could remember by name which guy was which by name.
Maybe it's senility, or maybe it's that he seemed to go from calling them by first name, then last name like they were different people.
