https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12657.The_Source
I can remember reading this thing for hours each night curled up in bed when I was 13 years old.
It basically began my career in archaeology (fingers crossed for grad school apps).
Based on Tel Megiddo, it tells the story of a fictional Tel from its birth to its excavation 12,000 years later.
It follows the path of a single family against many gods as it tells the story of Canaanite, Hebrew, Greek, Roman, Ottoman, and Israeli civilization.
While some of the material is dated, it nevertheless remains one of the most creative and well-written books I've ever had the pleasure of reading (and re-reading).
I have mixed fond and not so fond memories about "The Source." I am a huge Michener fan and have read all of his books.
"The Source" is at the top of my Michener list along with "The Drifters." I started "The Source" in 1974 when I was visiting Israel, the subject of the book.
Part of my visit included a bus tour of Israel.
The novel was over a thousand pages and I had to read really, really, really fast, finishing the book in about three days.

This was a book that helped me have a more complete view of world history and all the tensions surrounding the middle east.
I read in in high school during the first gulf war.
My high school was pretty substandard, it was a small town, and the students didn't care or try very hard.
Despite all my history classes, the Newsweek articles about Middle East confrontations, and extra reading that I had done, I didn't know that that Israel had only been created as a nation in 1948 until I read James Michener's "The Source.""The Source" was a favorite book of my parents and they recommended it me.
If you've ever held something really old in your hands and wondered, "what was life like when this was made?" The Source is a chance to have your musings answered.
Michener weaves fiction and history together seamlessly as he intertwines a narrative of an archeological dig in the 1960s (think: Indiana Jones without the bullwhip) with the stories of the artifacts and the people who created them.
If the premise itself isn't enough to get you to read this book, then consider this: The Source is nearly 1000 pages long, and I have read it nearly 6 times.
This books is three things at once: A novel, a collection of short stories, and a history of religion from ancient times through to the modern era, and it works wonderfully on all three levels, though it is best as a novel since every story actually ties together in the end, much like one would expect human history to do.
The book celebrates our differences while pointing a lot of this sameness out, a sameness many of us would like to ignore because it's easier to hate those that are different.
The current news of a 1,500 year old church uncovered in an archaeological dig in Israel was like déjà vu for me after reading The Source early this New Year's.
In Melissa's Review she writes that Michener traces the history of a single town in Israel/Palestine through the ages - from man's earliest attempts to tame nature and understand the supernatural, through the evolutions of the world's greatest religions, to the contemporary struggles that mark the land.
This is typical Michener, and he went on the archaeological excavations at Hazor to research it. I really loved it when I read it in junior high, which I did partly to prove that I could read such long books. I reread it several times afterwards. Now, as an archaeologist who specialized in ancient Israel, I can say that it's a fun book to read, but the interpretations are sensationalist, overtly Zionist, and now out of date. On the other hand, it probably stirs up interest in my field, and it is fun to read.
I love to understand things about other people and theminds and how they think. So I guess this can be a book worhty reading. Religion is in fact the force of the universe and we have the power to connect.
Michener uses his historical fiction style to trace the development of the worlds three great religons (jewish, Christian and muslim) through the story of the family of UR.
The have a great interest in history of their newly won Jewish stste in the Holy land.
This book explains a great deal of why many of the Muslins hated Christians.
The book also for me made we see why the founders of our country believed that only a secular government will allow for freedom of religion.
We are not a Christian nation, we are a secular nation that allows all religions to be practiced.
One of my favorite books ever.
It's a long one, so give yourself plenty of time.Tells the story of religion in Israel through the findings of an archaeological dig 90 miles north of Jerusalem.
It's divided into stories about 100 pages long, so it doesn't feel quite like you're reading a 1,000 page book.
Like all Michener novels, it is very well researched.
The characters seem real, and Michener also fleshes out historical figures.Some sex and violence (have you read the Old Testament?) but nothing gratuitous.
I never really understood the conflicts in the Middle East until I read this book.
I began reading with enthusiasm for the premise of this book: looking at the history of Israel through the eyes of archaeologists at a dig.
Unfortunately, now I feel it was a subject too large in scope for even this author and his legendary research.
I give it 2 stars instead of 1 (1&1/2 would be better) because I DID gain an appreciation for the evilness of Ba'al and other cult-worshipping groups which helped me see why Yahweh would authorize wiping them off the earth.
I don't believe Israel's history is so very bleak and dismal.
I finally picked it up in August and had a rough start with it, but once I got going, found it facinating and more of a history lesson that I feel I got in school (even though it's fiction.)I would recommend it strongly to anyone interested in world history (any era) and world religions.
Many parts of this book made me wonder again the value of humanity at times and if it will always be human nature to hate, disagree and hurt one another.
Religions, cultural differences and war seem to be neverending.
This book makes me want to learn and read more.
I have read this torn, twenty-five year old copy three times now.
No easy feet, as it is one of the thicker michener books.
The first time I read it, Iwanted to convert to Judaism and go to Israel and live on a kibbutz.
The second time I read it, I was less idealistic, more pragmatic.
The third time i wanted to travel to Israel and see the Holy Land, not to dig in, but just to dig.This book is one of the top three books on my list.
I have never read any other Michener, but i hear he is good.
Regardless, it is simply a great novel.The beginning of the novel is a bit heavy, as Michener explains various terms and work methods of archaeology, but once you get through that, you're left with a page-turner which is rich with an entire range of emotions: love, happiness, loneliness, fear, anger, religious zeal and rapture.I loved this book and recommend it with all my heart.
I have had this book on my "to read" list for a long time.
The subject matter, the history of Judaism, has always been of great interest to me.
The problem is the sheer length of this book.
It is a monster and so I always found starting it to be a daunting task.
As my early Christmas present to myself, I decided to go for it.
I am awed by the scope of this book.
Michener tells the tale of Judaism starting in 9834 BCE and continues to 1964 CE.
It is really many books that he is able to connect through family and place.
It presents a stunning vision and scope, with a fine exploration of Jewish culture and history.The book is extremely long - over 500,000 words (1200+ pages, fine print) and covers pre-Judaic, proto-Judaic/Hebrew, and Judaic history going back to ca.
Michener tells a story involving each artifact and its corresponding time in history.
He contrasts two major Jewish subgroups, the Ashkenazim and the Sephardi.You will first become familiar with pre-Hebrew religions, early Christianity, and Roman rule followed by the Crusades, Muslim culture, and early rabbinical attempts to interpret the Torah.
Into an early-Christian-Era tale involving a Roman siege of Makor Michener inserts Josephus, a historical figure known for his histories.The modern story explores Jewish culture in detail.
5 Stars....This book will take you back in time...
It will take you back 10,000 years to the land of Canaan, when the Canaanites inhabited the land...Michener starts off the book with a modern day archaeological site, and in parallel takes the reader back in time to when Judaism started, and to when it was the Jewish people following Moses who were brought to the holy land, with their god Yahweh...This is a wonderful book, full of so much history...
It speaks of Jewish persecution from the beginning...
I have read a number of Michener's books and this is one the best. I just loved how Michener introduced each period in the story by how a dig reveals artifacts in different layers (era). I particularly enjoyed the parts where the Olympic games were held - how the people observed them. There was also a fascinating chapter about the evolution of religion through the introduction of a figurine of Astarte. This book is quite educational. I recommend it to those who are interested in learning more about Israel and surrounding places.
Long and languid, the two weeks I spent on reading this saga has torpedoed my 2015 Reading Goal. A very good and absorbing story - typical Michener - although a couple of sections and the end were very slow going and not captivating, which is why it clocks at at four and not five star read.
Brilliantly written! Very well researched and meticulously put forth.
In which I review this book's one star reviews:"Painfully simplistic, implying that some of the greatest, centuries-long developments of mankind could happen within a generation or two.
Seemed like a lot of speculation on how the Jewish faith began with little connection to biblical history."This reviewer opens with some refreshing honesty: she did not finish the book.
After I read that sentence I was left wondering why the reviewer did not finish the book.
She did not finish the book because she felt that it was too speculative and not connected in the proper way to biblical history.
Basically, this reviewer would have an easier time giving birth than reading the book.
These are a people who have endured a lot, not always by choice, but as the book says because their neighbor will continue to label them "Jew" for hundreds of years, whether or not they have chosen to convert to something else.
Frankly, the book speaks very little of Jesus Christ who has been rejected by them in the past and one can surmise why Christ would be a contemptible thing in the modern time due to what they have suffered by his "followers".
I hope that when it comes time for me to visit there, I will either reread the book or remember the awesome stuff I have learned.
It is hard to believe that a person who did not live here achieved such deep understanding of the historical, cultural, religious and political issues related to the Jewish history.The scope is amazingly large.
The book touches so many aspects related to Jewish history, Jewish religion and philosophy, Israeli history and Israeli/Jewish politics and much more.
As an Israeli most of the issues were not new to me but the unusual way of presenting them was interesting and did help me understand my history better.It is interesting to be exposed to an external view of my history/culture/politics etc….
But I get the feeling that if in my history class any teacher had handed me any Michener book, my classmates and I would not have been sleeping and acting up.
I learned about this all separately in school growing up and never put two and two together that some of these big events, etc.
were happening simultaneously.
The chariot races were happening, etc.
But Michener puts it in perspective, and lays out the entire history of this people.
I could not put this book down, and lived and breathed it for over a month.
I found the characters that the author created to be pretty compelling, and that's what kept me reading the more than 1,000 pages.
But the overall message of the book is disappointing, and maybe even maddening.
In making this book primarily about the trevails of Jews in creating their own state, Michener pretty much dismisses the idea of God as an invention of human beings.
The protagonists he most advances are the ones who reject "God" in favor of a practical morality, which seems to be superior in Michener's mind.
Had I known before I read what the book would be like, I would not have.
I LOVED this book. It is at time desperately sad and then incredibly inspirational. It made me proud of my Jewish heritage. I think it is a must-read for all, but especially for people like me with little Jewish education, but a strong sense of Jewish identity. This will give you a sense of your roots.
This book tells the history of ancient isreal and its religions in a very interesting way.
The storyline follows one family in particular, and as the book begins to go through time towards modern days, it follows this family line and shows how the artifacts that the modern day archeologists dug up interact with this family line and the culture of the day.
in overview, this book gives a greater apprieciation for jewish and isreal history, and puts great emphasis on religion and how it has effected man throughout time.
But deffinitely a great book and a great read.
Like most of Michener's books, The Source is enormous, so get ready to spend a lot of time by a lamp in a comfy position.
Each succeeding chapter is how each artifact got there, and subsequently, the story of religion in the Middle East.
One thing I love is that the book feels smaller than it is because the chapters are usually about 100-200 pages following the story of one person or family.
The other great thing is that the stories follow the same families throughout time and circumstance.
You miss the dynamism of our history....And because we Jews were at the focus of forces we became the most dynamic of all.
473).""The life of man is determined when he first places his trust in God. We have been dead ever since we offered our lives to halt Petronius from bringing in his statues of Caligula.
527).""I can foresee a day not far off when the Jews of the world, distraught and each with his own vision of God, will hear some crazy man shouting, 'I am your Messiah!
