https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6314763-orange-is-the-new-black
[Spoiler alert as to the ending of the book! Read at your own risk.]I'm biased because Piper is my wife, and I'm in this book. But I still think it's am amazing journey story. I'm pretty sure if I didn't know Piper I would be spreading the word on ORANGE just as I've done other books. I read a pre-hype galley of Eat Pray Love, thought it was amazing, and sent to at least 5 friends. So there. Read Piper's book: you'll be really glad you did.
Allow me to summarize: "So, I am a privileged, white girl who was lost and confused.
I made some mistakes, including becoming involved with an international drug ring.
Oopsie.
Despite my whiteness, all the brown and black folks loved me (because Blondie--yours truly--had street smarts and was ever so helpful to those in need).
And you guys, these people taught me so much about life, love, and how hard it is to be NOT white and privileged!
These people were my friends and I was sad when I had to leave them." What a pile of sanctimonious balderdash.
A well-educated, upper class white woman goes to prison and builds strong bonds with her fellow inmates, who are mostly undereducated women of color from the wrong side of the tracks.
While these friendships were meaningful to her in prison, I highly doubt she maintains them.
She admits to reading the "How to Survive Prison" books, and I have no doubt that she hatched her plan to become "just one of the gang" as a result.
She walks out of prison and she leaves those friendships behind.
She writes a book that is by and large about how she conquered prison.
Two hundred women, no phones, no washing machines, no hair dryers--it was like Lord of the Flies on estrogen.  Soooo....Piper Kerman screwed up. She fell in love. One thing led to another and the next thing she knew, she traveled the world as an international drug traffickers.  Whoops.  Ten years later, that drug ring was busted and her name was brought to attention.So, it would be fair to say she screwed up colossally.Despite the offence being a decade old, the current law forces all those who
But while in prison, Piper learns lessons of bravery, love and sacrifice.
However, she does own up to her mistakes and the zany, funny and heartbreaking side characters certainly made up for any of the Mary-Sueing.The injustices she suffered (i.e. some of the male guards taking liberties with the pat-downs), the conditions of the women's prison (i.e. sickening black mold in the GED classroom) and the complete lack of everything normal (i.e. being given "fresh" underclothes that were very, very obviously used and unwashed) were deplorable and (of course) made this book riveting - and heartbreaking.
A little like high school, there are popular people whom you need to earn the approval of, there are authority figures who are either completely out of touch with your day to day life, or otherwise completely corrupt; there are inmates who you might need to avoid, et cetera.What I'm most disappointed in with Orange is the New Black is how it handles what the prison system does to its female inmates, and how different it is to the experience of a male prisoner.
I really wanted to give this a better review, because I love it on Netflix.Maybe I would have liked it better if I hadn't seen the show first.Basically, I felt like this story lacked depth, was repetitive and quite often felt phoney.
Oh, and don't get me started on unrealistic dialogue.I feel like this review is more of an endorsement for the show than anything.
What Netflix has done is take a very mediocre framework and build something utterly fantastic on it.
I'm sure they're paying Piper Kerman dearly for the rights to her story, but I feel like she should be paying them.
The author's well off and a WASP and she had it relatively easy in prison what with all the letters, books and visits she received from family and friends.
There are no major conclusions about the sociology of her experience nor are there calls to action on ways for people to address any of the many things prison does not do for society.
It is my job to reflect.I liked this book.
And maybe getting me to see myself in those shoes will get me to reflect how we as a society punish law breaking.*I made that number up.
I feel a little bad about that, as a good friend recommended it for our book club, but I'm guessing I had a surly face when I showed up to discuss it that evening.In terms of the writing, my main gripe is that nothing happens.
And I have no idea how it's possible that nothing happens, but this also is true.
It's like she got out of jail, realized she could sell a book about her experiences, and cobbled together some random stories to form a semblance of a book.
She basically tells us over and over again how much everyone likes her in jail.
I totally picked up this book because I love the show on Netflix and wanted to read about the real deal.
This is one of my favorite shows and it's funny because I could pick out some of the real people in the book that are in the show.
And then when they tell her she is going to trial and then to prison, it takes 6 years to get to the trial.
Piper talks about life in prison and about the friends she actually made there.
But she had friends and family coming all of the time.
I suppose she had to stretch out everything that happened that year into those pages.There were also a lot of women mentioned, and my head was spinning, trying to keep track of them.Although well-written, the one thing I honestly didn't like about this memoir is that the author came off as a bit smug, like she was better than the other prisoners.
There wasn't one person in that network of friends who called her stupid for her stupid youthful decisions?
Questions were left unanswered; did she keep in touch with the friends she made while in prison?
Absurd rules and situations abounded.I’d forgotten that Martha Stewart did not get her wish to be in Danbury so I kept wondering if she’d show up.One thing I found most amazing/disgusting is how laundry detergent is dispensed to Danbury women’s camp inmates for free, and menstrual supplies are present in abundance, enough so that they’re multiuse, but everything else, including soap, toothpaste, and other such things have to be bought in the commissary, with either prison earnings (for many women) or money sent from the outside.
I think in minimum security women’s prisons more of the staff should be women, and the men should be better screened!!
I have never watched Orange is the New Black, but a few GR reviews had me curious about the book that formed the basis for the show.
I listened to the audio.
She almost never mentions the accomplice (or how she feels about the accomplice) she blames for introducing her to a life of crime, but then at the end of the book, she suddenly expresses near-homicidal rage at this accomplice, and the effect is jarring.
If Kerman was soooo angry at this accomplice, why not mention that throughout the book, rather than suddenly at the end say "I wanted to kill her"?
That kind of anger seems like it might take up a lot more mental and emotional energy than Kerman shows it doing throughout the book.
Because the show is freakin' GENIUS and...let's just say I am not picking up on genius from the book.
It begins early on, when Piper lets us know that she wasted all those years in an elite university majoring in theater without any actual life goals in mind.
And then she writes a book, which has no soul.
All those years in an elite university (that she never tires of mentioning) and she can't write.
This book is so very devoid of personality that it feels like it was written by someone totally unattached to the situation rather than by the person who lived it.
It evaporates, and it's terrifying."Another criticism Piper has is how the so-called war on drugs has bloated America's prisons, yet there are hardly any helpful re-entry programs for inmates who are returning to the outside world.
Housing an inmate is expensive, and Piper noted that many people would have been better off and more productive doing community service, such as working with drug addicts, than wasting time in prison: "But our current criminal justice system has no provision for restorative justice, in which an offender confronts the damage they have done and tries to make it right to the people they have harmed.
What I thought this book was going to be was a memoir by a typical prisoner that would explore the challenges of the criminal justice system through a compelling personal story, not one whose fiance had a website coordinating which friends sent her which books and whose commissary account was always topped off.
There are glimmers where the author mentions issues like the challenges of reentry or the arbitrariness of rule enforcement in prison, but she utterly fails to take those opportunities to delve deeper, resulting in a candy coated beach read.
Orange is the New Black by Piper Kerman is a 2010 Spiegel & Grau publication.
Unless you have been living under a rock, you have at least heard of the smash Netflix original series- “Orange is the New Black”.
This is the book upon which the series is based.
I admit I have have not seen one single episode of television series.
I have seen some ads for the show, and based on that I figured it probably wasn't my cup of tea.
Recommended to those who enjoy true crime, memoirs and TV tie in books.
I think that's the biggest problem I had with this story-- the author (and publisher) assume that the mere fact that a well educated white girl from a wealthy family will be going to prison is enough drama to float the entire book.
Very unexpected.The author told her version of her story, which ironically often felt light and breezy, giving me the sense that a lot was left out.
While telling her story though, she brought up many issues and flaws in our justice system, focusing on the lack of restorative justice, sentencing inequality, and poor programming designed to assist prisoners with reentering the world.
She did well with humanizing the prisoners and emphasizing the power of human connection.
The book, however, ended abruptly and without any epilogue or follow up information regarding those with whom she connected.
This added much to the story.
Some people go into therapy, some become artists, others follow a spiritual path to find their true selves.
Convicted of being a drug courier, a youthful folly she got into when she was enamored of the woman who got her involved with this, she was arrested 10 years after the incident and had to serve over a year in prison.
However, she emerged a changed woman: she saw how she had wounded so many people by her recklessness and self-centeredness, saw what drugs had done to women she met in prison, realized that her so-called aloofness and independence was a sham and that connections with others were lifesaving.
So, I haven’t watched the show yet, but I’ve heard so much good stuff about it that I think I got my hopes up way too high for the book.
However, I just didn’t like the narrator and had a hard time relating to her (despite her being small, blonde, blue-eyed, educated, runner, etc.).
I think she was trying so hard not to sound whiny and condescending that she came across as whiny and condescending.
The repeated “I can’t believe that someone that looks like you would be in prison” got really old.
I've never seen the show but several friends raved about how wonderful it was, so when I read this book I kept waiting for it to get good and it never happened.
I was expecting corruption among the staff, drugs being smuggled in, fighting among the inmates, leaning about how being in prison affected Piper's relationship with her fiance.
She had a job, but it was unclear what the hours were (seemed like she still had a lot of free time to do yoga and run).
She mentions one time in the book that she never thought about people actually taking the drugs and getting addicted.
Having watched some of OITNB without succumbing to its apparent lure, I was skeptical about the book this popular series is based on, added to that, I tend to shy away from non-fiction.
However, I come away from it feeling glad to have taken the plunge.
hopefully not!) I also like the real Piper Kerman much better than the fictionalized one on the show.In any case, I am glad I read this book and would absolutely recommend it to anyone skeptical about dipping their toes into the non-fiction pool, or who is interested in learning more about the US prison system for women.Find more reviews and bookish fun at http://www.princessandpen.com
This was so boring my gosh. Probably because I've already watched the TV show so I definitely had higher expectations but ugh... this took me 8 months to read that's how boring it was. Sigh.
This book really took me by surprise.
I honestly thought I wouldn't like it and was ready to give up on it after a few pages, but then, it just suddenly caught my attention and quickly I just couldn't stop listening to it (I highly recommend getting this on audiobook!
Memoirs always feel more intimate and true when the author him/herself is reading it to you).
"Orange is the New Black" made me laugh, made me cry, most of all it made me feel and think.
While the TV series is entertaining, I never quite connected with it the way I connected with the book.
One of the main criticisms of this book is that Piper never seems apologetic for her crimes.
For one, by the time she went to prison, it's nearly two decades since her crime.
Secondly, I wondered throughout the entire book, what is the point of this sentence?
It's bizarre to read this and realize the stretch of time between the crime (late 80's), the arrest (1998), and the sentence (2004-2005).
She's done her apologizing, over and over, by the time this book was written.
As someone who watches way too much Lockup and has read some harder stuff about what goes on, it was refreshing to see that it's not all Shawshank in there.
It was distressing to come up against brain issues impossible to solve today, and to read the cold, harsh statistics of reality.Changing the subject, the author writes most sympathetically of female drug dealers, mules, and addicts whom she believes are mostly harmless people, but she recognizes the destruction of their children's family life and the emotional pain of their parents.
I feel like I've been reading this book for ages.
Maybe if I read this book before I watched the show I would have given it a higher rating but regardless, it wouldn't have been much higher because it wasn't a good book.
When Piper kept to herself the book was so boring.
The other characters made the book more interesting but as I already said, Piper didn't really put a lot about other people in there.
I rarely ever read smutty books but I was expecting more sex and relationships in the book.
I was expecting it to be more like the series and so I was disappointed.
I liked that Piper Kerman shed some light on how it is within women's prison walls--tight inside rules, terrible governance, dirty showers.
What I didn't like about this memoir was how judgmental and superior the author is to her situation.
(Instead, she keeps blaming the government, which, though an accurate charge, is one she uses to divest herself of personal responsibility.) I'll give her credit for acknowledging her role in a couple of sentences, but then she turns around and says people still end up making bad choices in prison (unlike her, of course).
The book is a memoir by Piper Kerman who is convicted and sentenced to fifteen months at the correctional facility in Danbury, Connecticut for drug trafficking. The book features many of the story-lines used in the series but there are also major differences including name changes. I found the book interesting but mainly because I was constantly trying to compare the book to the series. I am pretty sure that there are better books around that cover the same types of experience.I normally prefer books to films but not this time.
