https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/87294.The_Tin_Woodman_of_Oz
The story of Tin Woodman was told in the first book, right after we got to meet him initially.
So one of the fine day in the Land of Oz Tin Woodman and Scarecrow were sitting in the former's castle when a wandering boy unimaginatively called Woot the Wanderer dropped by for a visit.
I can understand the reluctance of going through Emerald City - it looks my intense dislike of Ozma is shared by both Scarecrow and Tin Woodman although they do not admit it - but blindly rush into unknown without any preparation is stupid.
Possibly my favourite Oz book so far. A proper quest (I'm a sucker for a good quest; it's the next best thing to a good, old-fashioned dungeon crawl) with a proper goal and plenty of twists along the way. Baum even delves into Dr. Frankenstein territory in places; the horror... the horror...
In Return to Oz, the weirdness gets a little dark, but in the original books, Baum never forgets to have fun, even when his plots take morbid twists.
You should probably start with the first two Oz books, but then I suggest skipping straight to The Tin Woodman of Oz. If you've seen Return to Oz, you'll know the Tin Woodman’s origin story: the Wicked Witch of the East cursed Nick Chopper’s ax because of his love of a Munchkin girl.
The Tin Man's reunion with his old Munchkin love is especially touching.
Overall I enjoyed this one as much as I did when I first read it in 6th Grade. The story is well plotted and the adventures are pretty Grand. In true Baum fashion it’s much more about the journey than it is the goal, which is welcome in this case.
This book is so weird, and I'm glad I've read it because every once in a while there will be an opportune time to reference it and weird people out. :D
Been awhile since I had read one of these. They are so much the same that reading them one after another is kind of a little annoying. And yet this one left me interested in reading the next one immediately. As usual it was a travelogue visiting odd new characters. But at least there was a relatively interesting and reasonable mission. Definitely worth reading aloud to children and one of the better books but still only bubblegum at best. 3.5 of 5.
The Tin Woodman of Oz , which is a century old this year and hence the main theme of the upcoming OzCon, was the third Oz book I read, way back in 1989. After reading Wizard and Land, I checked to see what the local library had, and it was this and Cowardly Lion, as well as The Sea Fairies and Sky Island. So I knew about Ozma, and I think I'd heard before that Dorothy eventually returned to Oz to live, but there were a few mentions of characters I was unfamiliar with, like Polychrome and Tiny T
It actually ties in pretty well to the first Oz book, not just because the Tin Woodman and the Scarecrow are main characters, but because it gives a resolution of sorts to Nick Chopper's original back story concerning his old sweetheart, here given the name Nimmie Amee.
The party goes on to the forest where Nick used to live, finding along the way another Tin Man, this one a soldier named Captain Fyter who was also in love with Nimmie Amee and also had his body parts gradually replaced with tin ones by the same tinsmith, Ku-Klip.
Baum confirms that not only does no one die in Oz, they don't age either.
Babies stay babies.
Old men stay old men.
And body parts stay alive even after the spirits of their owners have moved on to tin bodies.
And tin smiths might keep those living body parts, like severed heads, on a shelf in his workshop.
And he might decide to sew the parts of different people together to make a new person.
Baum has always toyed with morbid subjects.
There was that queen that kept switching heads all of the time.
I picked up a copy of this version since, for 99c, I could have the complete series along with "All the original artwork by the great illustrator W.W. Denslow (over 1,000 classic illustrations)", and to read the complete 14-book text at bedtime with all original color illustrations on my Kindle Fire knowing that there would be cross-linked tables of contents and no layout issues, it was worth my buck rather than taking them all out of the library.
#5 The Road to Oz (1909) READ August 12, 2014 – February 22, 2015 My Kid – The love magnet was pretty awesome, and Dorothy meets the rainbow girl and Shaggy man...
This installment in the Oz series picks up a pretty significant dropped thread from earlier in the saga: Nick Chopper, a.k.a. the Tin Woodsman, jilted a Munchkin girl.
Nick's compassion is referenced on many occasions, yet he really doesn't seem to show very much at all for his old sweetheart and is primarily motivated by his intention to keep his word.
It's an oddly cold (though I suppose belatedly honorable) way for him to act and so the book feels pretty consistently out of step somehow.
Nick Chopper himself seems reluctant about pretty much from the beginning, and the characters don't really stick with you too much.
While these are certainly classifiable as "children's stories," they can be read and enjoyed, as Baum notes, by "all those whose hearts are young, no matter what their ages may be." In this book, the travelers -- the Tin Woodman, the Scarecrow and Woot the Wanderer -- go on a magical adventure in search of the Tin Woodman's lost love, Nimmie Amee.
Ridiculous as the story may be at times, it challenges the reader to believe, at least so long as one finds themselves lost in the pages where the Land of Oz comes to life.
The twelfth book in the series, The Tin Woodman of Oz, is a great, refreshing treat, albeit a warped and twisted one, but only in the height of Oz-ian fashion.Nick Chopper, The Tin Woodman, is reigning in the West country of the Winkies.
Nimmie Amee was captured and held enslaved by the Wicked Witch of the East while the Tin Woodman was rusted in the woods.
Dorothy’s initial visit to Oz freed the Tin Woodman but what has become of Nimmie Amee after the death of the Wicked Witch?
Determined to make her his bride The Tin Woodman, the Scarecrow, and Woot the Wanderer set out to locate her.The Oz books are formula, plain and simple – but an enchanting one.
In the original book of the Wizard of Oz it's explained that the tin woodman was once a normal woodman who fell in love with a girl named Nimee Amee who worked for the wicked witch of the west.
When he accidentally cut off his arm, he had a tinsmith replace it with a tin arm.
This continued until he cut off every part of his body, including his head, and had it replaced with tin.
In this book, the former Nick Chopper and Captain Fyter try to find their lost love, Nimee Amee, once again.
We all know the story of how an ordinary woods man came to be made of tin due to the love of a young lady, an evil witch and an cursed ax, but what ever happened to the lady?When young Woot the wanderer asks that question the TIn man and scarecrow decided to find out.Along the way they are sidetracked by a snooty giant, a magic spell, a damsel in distress, a new friend and a straw eating dragon.Lots of great fantasy bits, humor and a very funny ending. One of the best of the Oz books.
The series has its ups and downs but I guess I always like those books best that are kind of original but still fit into the well-known setting. I thought this one was a little slow sometimes but it was nevertheless a good read. It's great to see how accused I grew to the randomness of the stories.
Grab your favorite stuffed animal, settle into bed, and imagine Grampa Frank telling you all about Woot the Wanderer and Polychrome, the Rainbow's daughter, and The Tin Woodman and The Tin Soldier and The Scarecrow and how they went about searching for the young Munchkin woman, Nimmee Amee.
I loved the concept for this story. I loved how it tied into one of the original concepts in the first story, and how it had a decidedly more adult slant toward the end of the book.

Tin King Seeks Old Love, Meets SelfNick Chopper, the woodcutter who became the Tin Woodman and Emperor of the Winkies, was once enamored of the maltreated servant of the erstwhile Wicked Witch of the East, the one who got flattened by Dorothy's house all those years ago.
The subsequent adventures of the Tin Woodman, his faithful companion, the Scarecrow, and Woot, fill the pages of this Oz book.
I wonder if "Woot" is not a symbolic name of "Troot" as in "tell the troot".
Fans of Oz books should not miss THE TIN WOODMAN OF OZ, though if you've never read any till now, don't start here.
From what I understand, it seems Baum would have preferred to get away from writing the Oz stories, however, other books he wrote never had the same level of readership or popularity, so he was compelled to return to Oz. Yet, he manage, in my opinion, to still write his other stories within the Oz books.
The Oz series are filled with chapter after that seem to me to be short stories that could stand alone.
He does try to loop back sometimes, but by and large, I think he he found peace with his situation and filled both his own wishes and those of his devoted fans.
I have two books in the series left to go!
This is my personal favorite Oz book. It's markedly more existential than any other book in the series, quite bizarre in places, and it focuses on my three favorite characters: the Scarecrow, the Tin Woodman, and Polychrome. There are at least two or three Baum Oz books that are objectively "better," in terms of their well-roundedness or their universal appeal, but I think this is still a very high-level volume (and it has some of Neill's very best art, too). Those who can appreciate it are absolutely right to do so.
Almost done with the series!This one wasn't too bad. I didn't notice any glaring problems like some of the prior books, and going back and addressing older plot points was a welcome change (and seemed unlike Baum given his tendency to introduce new things all the time sometimes several times over in the hopes of another major success).Also unlike Baum, the book kind of derails into some seriously messed up stuff once the adventure party meets Ku-Klip. Did not expect the Wizard of Oz to derail into Frankenstein and body horror territory, but then Chopfyt happened, so there you go.
The story was good. I have to admit that some parts I find creepy are the Tin Man talking to his own head and the Tin Smith creating a man made out of both Tin Man and Tin Soldier’s body parts. I was not surprised that Nimee Amee forgot about her former sweethearts but I did not see her marrying Tin Smith’s creation coming! So all they went through was a waste in my opinion but had not they done that, they would not have rescued Polychrome from evil giantess so two sides of the coin, I suppose?
I found this book pretty enjoyable. The fact that the Tin Soldier and the Tin Woodman (and in a sense Chopfyt) having the same creation story was a bit repetitive, but overall the adventure was enjoyable and well paced. I also appreciated that familiar characters were featured in this book. I even now consider Polychrome to be a welcome addition to the stories even though I don't believe she was ever mentioned in any of the movies.
Its been a few Oz books since I can remember enjoying one of them as much as this one. While keeping a child oriented tone, the ubderlying implications of love, loyalty, faithfulness and jealousy are quite grown up, and a bit dark at times. Loved it. Probably one of my faves so far.
Based on the title I didn’t expect the Tin Woodman to be so involved in the story. I expected him to swoop in with the deus ex machina at the climax and then appear as Banquet Guest #157 in the final chapter. Baum must have gotten a few complaints from his pen pals.
Finally a fairy tale were the romance doesn't end as all the others do. Although I saw the twist coming from far off, it was still good to not have it end as all the other love stories. Yet if it was written a bit differently, it would have been made more believable.
The tinman's background story about the girl he loved .... before Dorothy found him rusted along the yellow brick road. A bit complicated love triangle for a children's book with a surprising ending.
3.5 stars
Definitely one of the more interesting books. Baum tries to do a little more than focus on his standard journey plot in this novel. At times it got a little odd for me, but it's certainly memorable.
