https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7940355-comedy-in-a-minor-key
I felt mixed about this book as parts of it were insightful, almost brilliant and other sections felt like a dated, stale 1950's stage play.
Maybe a new guest would come but he, Nico, would never be standing at the top of the stairs again, waiting for someone to bring him his newspaper.
It was like a comedy where you expect the hero to emerge onstage, bringing resolution, from the right.
They feel that the play did turn out a bit sad after all, at the very end.
Sort of makes you want to read his book even if it’s horrible.
In fact, I’d even say The New York Times wasn’t exaggerating when they called this book a masterpiece.
I’ve read my share of books about WWII and, while many of them have tried, none of them have achieved the complex emotional undercurrent of Comedy in a Minor Key. I picked this book up by accident after misreading the author’s name, and it just goes to show that sometimes mistakes are very good things.
Now, if you’ll excuse me, I have to go convince as many people as possible to read this book.
One of the very first Holocaust-themed novels, published in 1947, it concerns a young, naive Dutch couple who agree to hide a Jewish man in their home during WWII. Then, he dies of pneumonia. What to do with a Jewish corpse under the Nazi occupation? Quietly powerful.
(view spoiler)[ Vim and Marie are hiding a Jew in their house and he becomes sick and dies.
Vim and a doctor drag the dead body out to a nearby park and place it under a bench.
Anyhow Vim and Marie are forced into hiding, since they have not only left the dead body in Vim's pajamas, which have his insignia on them, but also carelessly left laundry tags attached.
(hide spoiler)]Given that the events seem implausible, the whole story seems not as a real event but simply as a means for the author to make a statement.
The book also leaves out all unnecessary backstory details and focuses squarely on Wim and Marie and Nico and their time together as hosts and guest – we don’t learn anything about their pasts: we don’t know what Wim and Marie were like growing up; we don’t know how they met; we don’t know how Nico escaped and went underground.
And yet because the book chooses to focus squarely on their time together, once the body is eventually disposed of and the consequences of their decision played out, the story feels complete.
This story of a young Dutch couple who hide a Jewish stranger for a year in their home is a gem.
The narrative is presented elliptically, probing the emotions of the couple and the man they know as Nico who dies of pnemonia before liberation, thus presenting a dilemma of how to dispose of the body.
Although written in 1947, it is only now available in a new translation.
It may be that the success of and interest in the books of Irene Nemirovsky and Hans Fallada are giving new life to this genre of "lost" masterpieces from mid-century Europe, and I hope that more of Keilson's books are made available.
A Dutch couple, Wim and Marie, are hiding a Jew upstairs.
And then he dies.Hans Keilson just died this year at 101.
His books, including this one written in 1947, have been newly and brilliantly translated and republished.
You can read this on a flight from Dallas/Fort Worth to Pittsburgh.
Nico, the Jew upstairs, tells this wonderful couple, "It is not just the Jews." Maybe it will be Wim and Marie too.
And Hope amid the ruins.In its minimalist beauty, I found this better than Moran's The Man in the Box. And I wonder if this is where Moran got the idea.
E quando um casal acolhe em casa um judeu em fuga e de repente tudo muda…Durante a segunda guerra mundial, muitos judeus foram ajudados pelas populações, mantiveram-se escondidos, não sofreram os horrores dos campos de extermínio, mas passaram por um tipo de tormento mais lento e subtil. A espera, o medo e a culpa… Um tema penoso, escrito com alguma, leveza, ironia e humor.
Soon afterwards, Nico becomes ill and eventually dies in their house, leaving the couple in the unique position of needing to dispose of a body no one can know they had there in the first place.
Writer Francine Prose recently wrote in a piece in the New York Times that she has come to include Dutch writer Hans Keilson in her personal list of the world’s “very greatest writers.” On that alone, I took up Keilson’s “Death of the Adversary,” and was just as impressed.
Its size, at a mere 135 pages, gave me less time than I would have preferred to get to know Wim, Marie, and Nico.
As another reviewer suggested, I did read some facts about Hans Keilson's life before reading this short novel, and the fact that he actually hid in someone's home to escape the holocaust maybe gave some added weight to it.
It's weird to read about the trivial embarrassments and secretive uncertainties--much more than the serious dangers--involved in saving someone's life in this way and dealing with having them around all the time.
And on the part of the hidden person, the understandable resentments about being saved by being imprisoned, as well as the self-lacerating guilt that accompanies feeling that resentment but also remembering the horrors that have happened to others.
This is one of those stories for which you need to account when it was written and what had been written about a period in history then.
This must have been an eye opener when published about the perils of hiding someone, more specifically a Jew, during WWII and about how difficult it is to keep secrets.
Sooner or later, secrets acquire a life of their own and are compelled to come out.
Based on the perspective, I give the book 4 stars.
It is a short and compelling read.
However, considering how much WWII lit has been published since, I don’t think this book brings much new.
This novella, published shortly after the War, tells of a young Dutch couple, Wim and Marie, who take in a Jewish man and hide him in an upstairs bedroom.
They are good people, but also quite ordinary; that is their beauty.
Keilson's novella is essentially a thank-you letter to the Dutch people.But it starts with a twist.
The word "comedy" in the title is well taken, not that any of this is funny, but that it is a series of everyday accidents, brief embarrassments, unexpected encounters, all fortunately having a good outcome.
Keilson's masterpiece is the only of its kind (that I've experienced) in Holocaust literature. Reading it, one feels as if a dimension as yet unimaginable has been added to the horrific story that we have now come to expect. There are no gas chambers in this one, no concentration camps either. Almost all the action takes place inside a comfortable house. The horror remains something that is only anticipated, and not necessarily imagined very well by the characters. The title fits beautifully.
Bis Nico sich eine dumme Erkältung zuzieht, stetig schwächer wird und schließlich stirbt.
Wie wird man die Leiche eines rechtlosen Juden los, ohne sich selbst und den Widerstand zu gefährden?Frage 1: Was hat dir besonders gut an dem Buch gefallen?Ich fand es schön, eine Erzählung zu lesen, in der in Kriegszeiten das Gute im Menschen im Mittelpunkt steht.Frage 2: Was hat dir weniger gut gefallen?An manchen Stellen verlor der Autor sich in unrelevante Details.Frage 3: Was war dein Lieblingscharakter?Marie.
Sie war realistisch, nicht hysterisch, konkret besorgt und sympathisch fehlerhaft.Frage 4: Würdest du das Buch/eBook weiterempfehlen?ja, vielleicht auch eine gute Schullektüre
When you read the history books it’s easy to forget that war is all about the most ordinary of people.
This detail is presented early on in the book, the day they first meet their ‘guest’ Nico but it wasn’t until later in the book its pointedness dawned on me.People die in war—hundreds of thousands, millions—but just because there’s a war going on doesn’t mean that normal life and death doesn’t go on.
But you can’t always plan for the unexpected and that’s when things nearly go awry several times.Where the book got interesting for me was after they get Nico out of the house.
This isn’t a book about war; it’s a book about people.
My "Hmmm" is because of my contemplation of this being called a black or dark comedy.
Now, I did not read it because I expected a humorous look at Jews hiding from the Nazis, because I certainly can't imagine any humor coming from that situation (okay, maybe if Colonel Klink were involved).
I came across the book when looking for books about Germans and in this case the Dutch living under the Nazis.
This book is about a young Dutch couple hiding a Jew in their house.
In that case it made me feel good.
This is a beautifully told short novel that provides a view of life during World War II that is seldom seen.
We all know there were those who bravely sheltered Jews and those who helped them escape.
This book tells the story of Wim and Marie, an ordinary young Dutch couple, who take on the task of sheltering an older Jewish man.
By focusing on one tiny, less than extraordinary situation, Comedy in a Minor Key gently, succinctly and bravely explores themes beyond those we are used to reading about in World War II fiction.
It was a privilege to read his book.
I picked this up at the library knowing nothing about the author, Dr. Keilson.
I just finished the novella and read this NY Times article about him: http://www.nytimes.com/2010/09/04/boo...I'm even more impressed.
I enjoyed the novella because Keilson handles the omniscient third person with grace (no easy task, at least for me!), and he writes in the spare style that admire so much (James Salter's stories, for example).
More importantly, though, I found this book riveting because of the author's understanding of human nature.
Like Irene Nemirovsky's Suite Francaise, Keilson's Comedy in a Minor Key is powerful because of its urgency and immediacy.
It is a simple story with a couple - Wim and Mary who provide shelter to a stranger, a jew who seeks protection frm the Nazis.
Wim and Mary must do this in absolute secracy.
Here comes the significance of the title - It is ironical that Nico could have died if left in the world - so he had sought the couple's protection; instead he dies of a disease in secracy at home.
When in hiding, they experience what Nico would have experienced in their house.
It is a simple story and yet arouses many emotions and sentiments.
The rise and fall of literary reputations, like some kind of stock market for introverts, is a strange thing.
This author's work, published in the Netherlands over half a century ago, seems to be experiencing a “buy” signal largely due to the author, a German Jew who fled the Nazis and was hidden by the Dutch, surviving to see his 100th birthday recently.
This is slender (literally and figuratively) story of bland yet decent people trying somewhat ineptly to do the right thing from a mixture of profound and shallow motives.
Different from most books about this subject – give it a try.
It's interesting, but I regret having read this and his other well-known novel in English. I get the feeling the translations don't manage to be very idiomatic, they sound a little awkward to my (admittedly non-native) ears. Strangely, although the original is in German, I often get the feeling I'm reading *Dutch* that's been translated a little too stodgily or literally. Maybe because this one is set in Holland, and the author became a Dutchman after he'd gone into hiding for the nazi's there.So I wonder if I'd like his novels better if I read them in Dutch.
A fine, tightly wrought, intensely absorbing psychological thriller about a Dutch couple who harbor a Jew during the Nazi occupation of The Netherlands. The author, a German who participated in the Dutch resistance and wrote the story right after the war, has many talents -- he has a detailed eye and a gift for fine description. Parts of it almost read like poetry. He uses tension and so well throughout the narrative that you are at the edge of your seat throughout. I would read more of this author's work.
This gave me chills. Not frightening chills but OHMYGAWDITWASSOGOOD CHILSS
It was an interesting book. I loved the different perspective of a situation that you read quite often about.
Flawless.
Like the way people veil a body in fabric and clothing so that the blaze of its nakedness does not blind too deeply the eyes that see it, people veil life itself with precious garments, behind which, as under ashes, the double-tongued fire of cremation smolders.
But wherever violence and annihilation tore away the protective covering, the undaunted heart was thrown into turmoil and could not rest until new costumes had formed, new threads had been spun, to mask, and raise up what was shameful and unbearable."This short novel/lla is about a couple who shelters a Jew in Nazi-occupied Netherlands.
Here's my feature discussing this book.http://www.washingtonindependentrevie...Washington Independent Review of BooksFresh New Takes on “People of the Book” Martha Toll March 27, 2013The escape from oppression into a vast diaspora is a theme that has preoccupied Jewish writers from Exodus to modern times: here are a few titles that treat this subject with refreshing originality.Spring heralds the holiday of Passover, in which Jews celebrate their escape from bondage during ancient times.
A beautifully written novella from 1947 about kindness and decency in a world that often has little use for either.
A Dutch couple, Wim and Marie, agree to shelter a Jewish man they know as Nico during Nazi occupation in World War II.
Unexpectedly, Nico develops an illness and dies and the couple face the difficulty of removing the body from their house without attracting the attention of the authorities as harborers of a Jew. The book moves back and forth in time and explores the thoughts of all of the characters as they face the unexpected consequences of their decisions.
A superb book that I heartily recommend.
Carina l'idea e toccante il tema, quello della perdita della libertà. La riflessione ci arriva direttamente dalla penna di questo scrittore ebreo che ha scritto questa "Commedia in minore" nel 1947.Tuttavia il libro non decolla mai, è sempre lì lì per farlo ma non lo fa. Anche i personaggi non aiutano perché non riescono davvero ad entrare nel cuore nonostante la drammaticità del loro ruolo. Insomma, si arriva in fondo facilmente ma, per rimanere in tema, Anna Frank è tutta un'altra cosa.
In 2008, when Keilson received Germany's prestigious Welt Literature Prize, the citation praised his work for exploring 'the destructive impulse at work in the twentieth century, down to its deepest psychological and spiritual ramifications.'Published to celebrate Keilson's hundredth birthday, Comedy in a Minor Key - and The Death of the Adversary, reissued in paperback - will introduce American readers to a forgotten classic author, a witness to World War II and a sophisticated storyteller whose books remain as fresh as when they first came to light.------------My take......A short 1947 book read back in March for Past Offences Crimes of the Century meme………oops a tad late posting then.Secrecy and a sense of claustrophia prevails as Wim and Marie hide Nico upstairs in their house.
A few months later……..Once in mid-October…..when the cleaning lady was in the house, Nico heard someone slowly coming up the stairs at around four o’clock.Marie with the tea, he thought, and stood up.
