https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/125925.Industrial_Magic
I think my overall sentiment was “well, if continuing is going to feel like starting a new series, it doesn’t matter when I read them (salty reader, party of one).” For the most part, that was true.
The story components weren’t earth-shattering, but I absolutely love where I think it’s going and look forward to seeing through some potential plot points.Dime Store Magic offered a good Kate Daniels/Julie* relationship between Paige and Savannah and had a lot of excellent witchy moments (by witchy I mean supernatural spell casting and other creepy shit).
The further I read, the more I appreciate how Armstrong is writing this series.Overall, comparing books 3&4 to 1&2 is like apples to oranges.
I know many readers feel that they are too snow-flaky, but I think that Page actually has to work very hard at trying to stay good and be just, since her temper often sends her in the other direction, particularly when she is faced with one of the bad guys and wants to smite him on the spot, at which moments Lucas and his calm resolve for order and justice come very helpful and he manages to keep her in the space she can still like herself...
★★Industrial Magic is the fourth installment in Kelley Armstrong's urban fantasy series titled Women of the Underworld. The focal point of this story is once again the witches, which very much disappointed me. On the plus side, Elena, Clay, and Jeremy re-enter the storyline after a bit THANK GOD! ...but it just wasn't enough for me. To be clear, it's not a bad story/book/series, but it's certainly not the engaging shifter world I thought I was entering when I started. I have to say I'm out. I lo
★★½Industrial Magic is the fourth installment in Kelley Armstrong's urban fantasy series titled Women of the Underworld.
The focal point of this story is once again the witches, which very much disappointed me.
On the plus side, Elena, Clay, and Jeremy re-enter the storyline after a bit THANK GOD!
To be clear, it's not a bad story/book/series, but it's certainly not the engaging shifter world I thought I was entering when I started.
I love the urban fantasy genre but storylines that center on witches rarely spark my interest for some reason.
There is someone killing Cabal kids (Cortez's father's empire of really rich sorcerers).
First it starts out as half-demon employees and other supernaturals that aren't sorcerers being killed; which means that they aren't particularly worried about it.
They meet some vampires that embrace "their true nature," aka they sleep in coffins and don't come out during the day, a clairvoyant who only uses her powers against her employer, and the extension of Luke's family (which is VERY messed up).Gore, Weirdness, Ghost...oh and you meet the narrator for the next book!Kelley Armstrong's writing is something I can't get over.
I'm going to meet your family looking like a poodle with a live wire shoved up its butt."I'm still in love.
Paige's books are as good as Elena's to me.
I loved the father/son anti-bond and its development too, I can't help it, I'm drawn to family drama.
Paige and Lucas make a strong front when they stand up to prejudice, family hatred, and trying to fight for what is right while not always able to do it.
Savannah has a scene that's probably the best ending fight of the series - seriously, it was twisted and perfect.
Industrial Magic is the fourth book in Kelley Armstrong’s Women of the Otherworld series, and it’s easily my favourite thus far.
I’m so close to buying all the other books in the series and binge reading them across a week, such is my level of love for the world Kelley Armstrong has created.
I’m positive I’ll love the future point of views, but books three and four will certainly hold a high spot for me throughout the rest of the series.What I really loved about this one is how it has opened up so many possibilities for the world going forward.
While this was interesting at the beginning, it got extremely boring later as the assassinations kept happening for all the first half of the book.
300 pages of kids being killed and no one getting close to find any solutions for it.But then the 2nd half came, and EVERYTHING changed!
Seriously, so far the best thing I have read in the series (The 2nd half of the book I mean).
In it we see a lot about all the different species, also we see all the main character trying to resolve the case together and Benicio getting closer to Lucas & Paige.
What is not excellent however is Paige Winterbourne.
While she wasn't the smartest (despite what she thought) or the most likeable in Dime Store Magic, there was a lot going on to distract the reader from her.
Plus Savannah was a welcome break, as was getting to know Lucas Cortez.
Paige, despite complaining about the Coven witches, is more like them than she knows.
Old fashioned, judgmental, and convinced of her own superiority Paige spent much of this novel on her soapbox.
Ugh. If this entire series featured Paige or Lucas I would drop it in a hot minute.

I am so looking forward to that one!!!!!!!!!!!!Don’t you just love all these character names – they just somehow fit in with this “underground” cosmos don’t you think????And yes, the werewolves play a very low-key part in the story…….but guess they will be BACK……….The Otherworld is growing and expanding and I can’t wait to spending more time there…….where will Lucas go I wonder….join the Cabal or not????
So. Much. In. This. Book.This is another Paige and Lucas book, however, almost everyone else we've met so far is also present in a substantial capacity. AND we meet Jamie. I heart Jamie.Basically, in this book Paige and Lucas get roped into a Cabal investigation b/c someone is killing Cabal pre-teens and adolescents. It's creepily fantastic and includes everyone from Adam to Eve (heh) to Cassandra and Aaron. I like it.
Read August 2014Re-read for a challenge and also to continue the seriesI really enjoyed how strong Paige is and her relationship Luke. Can't wait to see what happens in the next book and the rest of the series and the return of the wolves.
Paige the witch is back as the narrator, but joining her this latest adventure is the rest of the amazing cast of characters we met in the earlier books.About four months have passed since the events of Dime Store Magic.
He wants Lucas and Paige to investigate the attacks on two teenagers in the Cabal.
The crimes strike a particular chord with Paige, since the latest victim is a young witch, abandoned by her mother.In the course of their investigation, our couple finds out that there were more victims than Benicio knew.
But just as much, I love watching Paige and Lucas take their relationship to the next level.
As the investigation progresses and the killer’s motives emerge, it becomes apparent that the real target may just be someone closer to home...Interesting character development and a solid mystery although the pacing is a little off with the first half moving slowly as the case builds while the second is exciting and action packed as the culprit is identified and the chase is on.
Several new characters are introduced including Lucus’s meddling father, Benecio, and his obnoxious brothers who need a serious reality check - my favorite scene is when (view spoiler)[Clay literally pounces on Hector (hide spoiler)].
It was still an easy read, with an interesting plot, and again, it piqued my interest in Paige (I didn't quite like her in the second novel.) There has been someone with a vengeance, killing teenagers that are related to the Cabal members.
Paige and Lucas spend the second half of this book trying to figure out who is doing so, and why.
Like the previous two, this book contains many different types of supernatural folk, and they all come together to solve this case.
I really enjoyed reading this.
We only got a very brief interaction with him but it felt like there was more under the surface and prehaps he had discussed it with Lucas before as Lucas tried to calm him and tell him not to make any hasty decisions while upset and not thinking clearly.That's one of the things I love about Kelley's writing, if you read between the lines there is always something more there that is not being said outright but may resurface in a future book and be expanded on!We also learnt a little bit more about the afterlife in the book as it was debated in terms of whether Vampires have an afterlife or not.
This is the second "Women of the Otherworld" book narrated by Paige Winterbourne.
I am still not wild about Paige, as a narrator she is pretty boring - know-it-all and self-righteous.
Nevertheless, this book is great, thanks to the plot and a cast of great secondary characters.
The story here is as follows: the Cabal teenage kids are being murdered by a mysterious killer and Paige and Lucas are called on by Lucas's father to help out with the investigation.
We are also introduced to some very colorful new characters: Jaime Vegas - a necromancer, a clairvoyant, Eve's ghost, and even an obnoxious Celtic deity.
That describes Kelley Armstrong perfectly.The Women of the Otherworld series is slightly different in that the narrator of each book changes.
Armstrong does a good job of introducing the narrator at least a book in advance and then also characters from the other books show up.
That’s all I can really tell you without spoiling the story for you.What I CAN tell you is that the story is suspenseful yet is character-driven, there a couple of new characters that you’ll enjoy and one thing that is highly implausible – but then isn’t the entire concept?Overall, I’d say this is the best of The Women of the Otherworld and I can’t wait to read the next!
If I had any previous misconceptions about Paige's character in Dime Store Magic I'm completely over them now!In Dime Store Magic I thought Paige was a weak character compared to Elena, but she completely came into her own in Industrial Magic .Paige was strong as a protagonist, loyal to her friends, selfless in her actions and just generally awesome.I loved all of the characters in this book - both new and old - and how they interacted with each other.Lucas is just as smart ever, Lucas's father is actually starting to grow on me, Savannah was as sassy as ever, Clay has started to ease off his obsessive side (just a little) and some of the new characters introduced were absolutely hilarious.The plot of Industrial Magic was absolutely flawless in it's perfection.It was so action-packed and exciting that I found myself finishing the book in no time at all.The last third of the book had me on the edge of my seat the whole time.
Another great book in the Otherworld series.
I also enjoyed getting a real glimpse into the Cabals and found myself quite liking Benicio.
I loved that this one had such a wide cast of characters, bringing back Clay, Elena and Jeremy as well as Cassandra and Aaron and Adam.
And I wasn't sure that I was going to like Jaime at first, but I definitely do and am loving her crushing on Jeremy.
A really enjoyable read that has got me ready to carry on with the next book in the series.
Basic Plot: Someone is offing Cabal kids, so Paige and Lucas get called in to investigate.I should have liked this book a lot better than I did.
The plot was interesting, and seeing the dynamic of the sorcerer cabals in action was interesting, so it should have grabbed me, shouldn't it?
The best I can come up with is that I just don't really like Paige all that much, and I felt that Lucas should have been a larger presence in this book, but wasn't.
Yes, I know it's called "WOMEN of the Otherworld," but still.I just feel vaguely dissatisfied, even though I did like it while reading it.
The way that she continually talks about being there "as long as he wants her around" (to poor Lucas' eternal frustration), I think comes partly from the fact that he's a sorcerer, and partly from her own insecurities.
Some of Lucas' fears surrounding their relationship is that Paige isn't going to be able to handle his family ~dramz, and he even goes so far as to say that she never signed up for it, but I think he's wrong there.
I think I want Scarlet Johansson for Cassandra.Lastly, CAN SOMEONE PLEASE TALK TO BE ABOUT LUCAS AND CLAY AS BROS?
I really am enjoying this series! This is the fourth book, the second about Paige Winterbourne. In this book Paige and Lucas are drawn into an investigation of murders targeting cabal employee children. The mystery was really complex and I honestly did not guess until the perpetrator(s) were discovered.Characters from the previous books make appearances and we meet some new characters. I loved seeing everyone working together. I also love how the previous couples work together with little drama (just enough to be real!).
Such good entertainment!
Paige has been dumped by her coven and decides to start a new coven for modern witches.But that plan is on hold when she hears that the teenage offspring of the magical underworld mafia family-The Cabals-are being murdered.And her boyfriend Lucas is the son of the most powerful family in the Cabal families who wants nothing to do with family business.
However, they soon find themselves needing a whole lot of help from their supernatural friends plus a run in with Savannah's dead mother is on the cards...I love this series and this book was no exception.
The romance between Paige and Lucas is a lot more believable than in Dime Store Magic, and I very much enjoyed Jaime's massive crush on Jeremy.
The plot was complex, thrilling and fast, and I loved it.
I also missed Savannah.-I won't give you guys entire summary because that usually ends up spoiling the book, but I'll give you a quick recap: Paige Winterbourne, ex-Leader of the American Coven and Lucas Cortez, her new beau, who also happens to be the son of the most important CEO in the Cabal industry (supernatural world company), are just trying to keep an easy life, trying to get used to living together, and trying to get used to raising a thirteen-year-old sorceress/witch.
Benicio Cortez then comes to the two with news.
This book in the series focused on Lucas & Paige.
Paige is trying to round-up some witches to start an alternate Coven, it is not going well.
Paige Winterbourne's relationship with Lucas Cortez is one of the many reasons behind that.
Witches don't trust Sorcerers & Paige is in a romantic relationship with one.Lucas Cortez is the son of a very powerful man.
Benico Cortez & one of the leaders of the Cabals.
Elena, Clay, Jeremy (werewolves), Adam (half-demon), Caasandra & Aaron (vampires), Eve (dead witch).
In this book, Paige and Lucas team up for the first time since becoming a couple, and they find themselves facing a child-murdering entity.
The bond between the witch, Paige, and the sorcerer, Lucas, deepens in this story and the reader finds that they truly love each other, and would do anything (literally, anything) to help save the other.
All in all, this is a fascinating, and sometimes horrific, tale; but it also brings humor, love and everyday life into a supernatural world filled with magic and whimsy.
I love these books! They're not literary masterpieces by any means, but they are a ton of fun to read. Armstrong writes in such a way that makes her characters feel real. They're flawed but strong. Elena and Paige are both women I'd love to hang out with in real life. The males are strong and protective, but allow their women to be independent also. This is one of the best series I've read in a long time. I've absolutely loved each book so far. Next book is Eve....that'll be interesting!!! Can't wait to get started!
Kelly Armstrong is fast becoming one of my favorite authors with her fast paced Women of the Other World series! So many things happen in this story and lives are being altered as a killer is being hunted down by the supernaturals. There are witches, necromancers, vampires, and more in this book of the fantastic! I feel like I have found a spooky and suspenseful series that will continue to capture my interest and imagination. Looking forward to reading more!
