https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/836340.My_Fair_Lady
The only reason I write this is because, unlike the movie, this holds the true ending, in which the woman leaves. Who in their right mind would stay with that odious man. He treats her like crap!To the play, NOT the movie!
good
My Fair Lady is very similar to Pygmalion, only with songs, but a few other notable changes it was odd seeing after having just re-read Pygmalion. Doolittle gets more of a part, and Freddy gets less (and his sister completely disappears!). I like both versions, and while I like the original better for the most part, I completely agree with the latter playwright that Eliza and Higgins are meant for each other!
Loved the book, loved the movie, loved the play, loved the soundtrack. (Enough love said?) I was in High School when I was obsessed with this. I can still sing all the songs. . . now that's scary.
Even though I hate the ending, I LOVE this play. I get the songs stuck in my head all the freaking time. This is also the only move I love Rex Harrison in.
I really enjoyed this book and I recommend it to any girls and women who love romantic musicals. The thing I found interesting was that it was written like a play; I have never read a book in that format. I also love Miss Doolittle's personality,and how she was very feisty even though she was somewhat ignorant. Eliza was a very open spirit and I think that's why I like her o much. She's not afraid to say her feelings!
As I've seen the original movie, with Audrey Hepburn (magnificent, I might add!) the book wasn't as good. As English isn't my mother tounge, it was hard to understand why she said things wrong, and why he said them right. Especially because my book was an older, Swedish copy! I didn't understand much, but as I'd seen the movie I understood it all anyway. Still, it was fun to read an act. I'd just wished I had read the original, English version!
An all-time favorite!
One of my favorite musicals. With my unerring sense for the inappropriate, I used "Wouldn't It be Loverly?" for an audition piece.
There is one honest answer to this book and why it got one star: Dutch translation.
Would I ever try to read the original if I get my hands on it: definitely.
The play was in town and I wanted to go, was sad I couldn't get tickets and so on but if they do it exactly as the translation: I'm glad I didn't go.
Of course there is a need for accents but the Dutch way of it, the way of writing and so on, it killed me.
Rather try the English version one day.
I think this book is actually more entertaining than Pygmalion (the play on which My Fair Lady was based), because the story is streamlined and embellished with catchy songs. However the ending, which is much different than that of Pygmalion, is infuriating. That's why the rating is no better.
Just wonderful. 4.75 stars!
used to watch the film with my ma and sing along to the songs :)))
It has some pacing problems, in my opinion, but it's just so entertaining!
Script.
Eh
I suppose "Rain in Spain" serves the purpose of bringing them all together in a common purpose, as does the scene with Mr. Doolittle in which Higgins actually claims her as part of the family, but it seems like one more scene showing Eliza doing all the things they claimed that she took care of at the end would make us feel for her even more when there ignore her as they celebrate.
Both Freddie and Higgins think they know everything about Eliza, but neither of them really know her at all.
no one cares about Freddie.
The book basically goes like this.
So he's like "start taking lessons from me and in a few months you'll be speaking perfectly!
Then I might consider liking you a little!" So she goes to his house and starts these lessons on how to talk properly.
This is the entire book, going to his home for lessons.
Then at the very end she can speak perfectly well, just like everyone else!
She does go through and learn how to talk but i like how at the very end she realizes that she doesn't owe him anything.
Wahrscheinlich kennt jeder die Geschichte von Eliza Doolittle, einem armen Blumenmädchen die redet wie ihr der Schnabel gewachsen ist.
Ich habe "My Fair Lady" als Musicalversion vor etwa 10 Jahren im Metropol-Theater in Berlin gesehen und finde die Story sehr schön.
Hier kann man in Drehbuchform die Geschichte nochmal nachlesen, was ich doch sehr unterhaltsam fand.
Im Film wurde Eliza von der bezaubernden Audrey Hepburn gespielt, am Broadway von Julie Andrews (die ihr Können schon im Musical-Film "Mary Poppins" unter Beweis stellte).Ich kann allen nur empfehlen, mal eine Aufführung von "My Fair Lady" zu besuchen - egal ob als Musical oder als Theaterstück.
Eliza is a young women London woman with a very strong London accent.
She shouted to him and then, Professor Higgins heard that and took a memo her English accent.
He is a expert of English accent.
They practiced again and agin together with urging!
Did she become be hate him because of hard practice??
Could she get correct English accent??
5. I knew the movie of "my fair lady" in the class last week, so I wanted to read it.I could enjoy learning about how different English with different accent.
I like the last scene about Eliza and Mr. Higgins...!
1.penguin readers, level42.65min3.poor, rich, lady, English, phonetic, change, love, 4.There was a poor woman, Eliza, who sold flowers in street of London.
One day the man who study phonetics found her and decided to teach to her real English with famous writer.
However, he really loved her and wanted to marry, so he was finding her so hard.
Finally, Eliza came back to the man.
There is not written after that, I think that they married.b, I enjoyed reading this book.
So I thought I wanted to watch the movie.
1.Publisher/Level penguin readers, level 32.Reading Time 130 min3.7-word summary dirty, London accent, Professor Higgins, lessons, practices, songs, love4.Discussion & Question Q.
What kind of English songs would you like to sing smoothly?
Therefore, by singing them smoothly, I would like to have not only English speaking skill but also confidence.5.What I thought about the book I didn't know that people who live in each part of England have each different accent.
In stead of Eliza's terrible accent, Professor Higgins would never give up that.
I also have a terrible accent, so I would like to practice and practice English pronunciation.
1. My Fair Lady/ Alan Jay Lerner/ PENGUIN READERS2.
5/15 41 min.
5/15 41 min.
5/15 41 min.
5/15 41 min.
(One Day 5/15 9 min.) Total 90 min.3.
accents, London, flower-seller, professor, sing, money, lady4.
Do you like to sing?
-- Yes, I do.
I sing One Direction's songs at karaoke.5.
I know the name "My Fair Lady" beause it is famous as one of the Audrey Hepburn's movie.
However I did not know the story.
At first, I understood that Eliza had a very strong accent.
I think Professor Higgins was only interested in Eliza's accents.
I like happy ending.
*book: Penguin, level 3*time: 10/29, 90 minutes*summmary: Eliza, professor, pronunciation, remedying, lady, class, lonely*question:1.
She was remedied her English pronunciation by professor.
Have you ever changed or been changed the way you spoke?No. I think that the difference of the way of speaking is my character, so I don't have to change it!(Autually, my speaking is different from my friends who live in Nagoya because I use Chita dialect and they use Nagoya dialect, so sometimes they don't understand me!
I feel the differences of culture or customs with my friends rather than those of class.
1, PENGUIN READERS level 3 2, 6/12 10 min 5/15 35 min 5/16 25 min 6/17 10 min 3, lady, strong accent,professor, flower seller , Yorkshire , charming4, a) the music began and people moved on to the dance-floor in pairs.
Higgins took Eliza on to the dance-floor and they danced away together among the other dancers.
b) Eliza changed flower seller into charming lady by practicing perfect English accent.
I was impressed that.
5, I enjoyed reading this book.
I understood importance of perfect English pronunciation.
In this book, there are some songs in this book, so I'm interested it now.
My Fair Lady is a wonderful examination of how voice is specialized for certain social and occupational circles and how in order to move fluidly in and out of certain group, a differentiation of voice must be perfected.
By looking at how Eliza's life changes as her voice changes, students will have to consider the ways their understanding of voice might need to change to achieve goals they have for themselves.
One way that this can be done is through the "What are your dreams?" prompt that Kelly Gallager writes about.
1. Alan Jay Lerner, Penguin Readers, Level 32.
4 hours3.
1 London 2 English 3 accent 4 linguistics 5 woman 6 professor 7 love4.
Do you want to go to London?
That's because I'm really interested in British English.5.
This book was interesting because I'm really interested in British English and dialects.
The main character, Eliza is a young woman with a very strong London accent.
However, a linguist, Professor Higgins makes her beautiful woman without her accent.
I could learn the London accent through the book.
If you are interested in British English, you should read this book definitely!
What is not to like about this play. It is charming, enchanting, romantic and filled with great songs. Having seen the play and movie multiple times and having so often listened to this music, I sang aloud with the words rather than read along. I read this following reading the original version - Pygmalion by George Bernard Shaw - and although the credit for the genius of this story goes to Shaw, I must say that this ending is a better fit for the story and I personally prefer it over the original ending.
- Penguin readers. Level 3- Time: 62 minutes- 7-word summary: woman accent met linguist became fair love- Discussion questions1. Do you think it is important to be able to speak a language with no accent?It is important to be able to speak a mother tongue without an accent. I think it has a big deal with getting a job, too.2. If you had a father who drank every day with no work, what would you do?I would never give him money to drink. Maybe he should go to hospital to quit the bad habit.
1. penguin level32.
12/8.9.10 30min each3.
terrible accent speak dress lady dance slippers4.
a【Eliza was a poor young woman.
She sold flower on the street and she used the terrible English.
One day, she met the professor.
He decided to teach her the way to be a lady.
】b【Freddy couldn't take his eyes off her.
He was immediately, hopelessly in love with her.】5.
I was suprised at Eliza's change.
First, she uesd the terrible English, but gradually she started to use great English and finally she became a real lady‼︎I felt that if we make an effort, we can do any things!
