https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/153008.Kushiel_s_Dart
Unfortunately, I don't.And this is my BIG PROBLEM with Kushiel's Dart.Not that it's full of tortoise sex, mind you.
Now that story was really damn sexy.Phedre's first sexual partner just likes hitting a lot and wants to punish Phedre's master by beating her up.
Phedre becomes a very confused, abused child who grows into a woman trying to justify her abuse as decent and proper and performed by someone who was merely saving her.The whole thing becomes a really sad wank fantasy.
It's like the Tortoise thing.
If you like Tortoise sex then you're going to want to read a book about that.
I don't like books where the main characters sleep with a lot of people during the book.
I especially don't like reading about sex with no love/emotional bond.
Even though it was pretty different, I thought it was a pretty creative cultural genesis that Ms. Carey accomplished in this story.Yes, that's a lot of reasons why I shouldn't have liked this book.
I admired that he made sacrifices to follow his beliefs, but his love for Phedre often caused him to break his vows, which in a way showed how true to following Cassiel he was.
Maybe it's just 'cos "swept away by a barbarian!" isn't my kink.Carey has a habit of saying really obvious things in a hilariously portentous way, e.g.I asked him to pass the butter, for though as one marked by Kushiel's Dart, my greatest pleasure lies in pain, yet I am D'Angeline, and appreciate the finer things in life.
I do not think his heart could grieve more than mine did, that day when I asked him to pass the butter.This isn't even that great a parody, 'cos that's *exactly how she writes*.I did really like the worldbuilding, with all these prettily-named AU versions of European countries.
I started stealthy checking the cover of the books he’d read during lunch.
Turns out he reads a lot of fantasy, which is great.
When I mentioned this book, he started blushing.
I started the book two days later.
The book spans over a decade and is already over 900 pages long.
Maybe one sixth of the book is full of sex.
There is, however, a medieval-type setting and lots of lore.If you are a fan of epic fantasy novels and can handle this type of sexual content, I would 100% recommend this book to you.
I don't care how long a book is, if it's failed to wow me by page 361 then I think it's time to give up, right?I understand a few things about this book. Firstly, that Jacqueline Carey is actually not a bad writer, that the world created and the politics of it are well thought out... but I still don't understand why this book hasn't got more mixed reviews. Are there that many people into hardcore bdsm? Let's face it, that's what this book is really about.Yeah, so... sex. I am open-minded about
I saw before I picked it up that this book had been tagged as "bdsm" but when I read the description and found out that the book's all about sex and violence, I thought the GR members were being melodramatic and silly.But no, this is a fantasy world built upon some hardcore bdsm schmexing.
And more sex.Also, the politics of the book I found to be very dull.
just the politics of a sex-ruled world.
Ah, sex and politics, two things that can add that special something to a book or ruin it.
She is trained as a spy by a mysterious courtier, and must navigate the dangerous waters of intrigue both at court and internationally in order to save the homeland she loves.Of intrigue, high adventure, and sensuality (both sexual and non-), this book boasts plenty.
The adventure elements are important for how they affect the relationships of the characters, but they're not the point.If the characters aren't what make you love books; if the subtleties of court politics and alliances and love bore you, this isn't the book for you.
I love fantasy, I love stories with a kick-ass female lead, and despite the fact that this might tell you a bit more about me than you bargained for, I was really looking forward to enjoying a bit of pain and pleasure vicariously through this book.
After page 300, it did pick up, but "fast paced" doesn't always equal "good".Some of the annoying stuff: - Foreshadowing- Allusions- Foreshadowing- Euphemisms- Foreshadowing- Wordiness- ForeshadowingFORESHADOWING.
There were several other situations in which Phedre mentioned things like "...the whole world knows this, so I won't mention it...".
I can see how some people would like this book.
once upon a time, in response to the question What Would You Like To See In Fantasy, i responded:1. i would like to see an old woman as a protagonist. 2. or an interesting demon - but not a 'sexy' PNR demon. 3. or more epic fantasies set in steamy, wet jungles rather than european-style forests or meadowlands.  4. or a hero who is also a slut (male or female). 5. or a YA fantasy series in which the hero grows progressively more villainous. ________i felt confident that Kushiel's Dart would allow
okay, in this world, Phedre is an anguisette, which means that she gets off on (1) ANY sexual contact OR (2) PAIN, the kind experienced by a submissive during an s&m scenario.
the novel takes, um, great pains to note that Phedre is the first of her kind in 3 generations to have such receptiveness to PAIN.
what next - a fantasy world where no one's heard of doggy style?okay, i guess i should actually review the book:FOUR STARS for the first third!
Believe it or not, it’s been such a long time since I added a book to my beloved DNF Graveyard that my murderous babies were getting super concerned and stuff!
I don’t think she mispronounced a single annoying French word or name at any time while I was listening to this most fascinating book.
Goes the Weasel “Phew!” Goes my SNLD™ and stuff!➽ And the moral of this I Might Be Ancient and Ever Decaying But the Force of the DNF is Still With Me So Yay and Stuff All Hope Is Not Lost and the World Will Not End Just Yet Crappy Non Review (IMBAaEDBtFotDNFiSWMSYaSAHINLatWWNEJYCNR™) is: I think there’s a moderately good chance I quite possiblydidn’t like this book very much.
Sex is fine, even porn is fine, but the sheer redundant volume of the stuff made it less than exciting, after a while--mostly because it all seems to come from the same angle, the same point-of-view.It's a problem in most fantasy: the author wants to write about what interests them, and apparently, only that.
When an author is truly skilled, you'll come out not knowing which side they're on.But that's not this book.
The purple prose, the repetitive sex scenes, the single source world, and the sheer length of the thing.
*** 4 ***A buddy read with my friend Iain and the Kushiel fans:)  "...“That which yields is not always weak.”..." Well this was ... unexpected... Maybe I should make it a point to read the blurbs of the books before I start reading them, but I like to be surprised by the content of the story I get into. As it is, all I do is check out the ratings some of my GR friends give and then decide yay or nay accordingly. I tried to erase all expectations for the Kushiel's Dartbefore opening the book, bec
I tried to erase all expectations for the Kushiel's Dartbefore opening the book, because my friend's ratings on it vary from one to five stars and in those cases I know it is something I really need to read, since it provokes such strong feelings.
This is where Phedre and I have very similar feelings - we know Melisande is no good, but there is something hypnotic about her and we just can't help but be a tad in love with her...
Now I wish you all Happy Reading and may you always find what you need in the pages of a Good Book!!!
Sex is a vital part of the world in Kushiel's Dart.So the background here is that we're on an alternate history Earth about 1,000 years after the death of Jesus, specifically alternate Europe, once in which Christianity never really took hold because the real focus was drawn to a group of rebel angels who believed in the union of men and angels.
Elua and his followers founded Terre D'Ange, the land of angels (the equivalent of modern day France), where they mixed with men and taught people to "love as thou wilt." The people of Terre D'Ange are part angel as a result of all this.Our main character is Phèdre, a devotee of the angel Naamah, who taught people to worship through the gift and use of their bodies.
Awww, Goodreads Recommendations Engine! I suddenly feel we're friends! Just hope this doesn't get you into trouble...
I usually don't like to review books until I finish them, but I don't think my complaints with this book are ones that will be rectified in the rest of the tome.-Very few authors do political intrigue well.
I think the reader will understand that the book France or book Italy is not the same as real France or real Italy; no need to rename them.-Foreshadowing.
It is usually done somewhat like this:Phedre: "I had no idea that this event would later become important!"I like foreshadowing better when the audience doesn't know that the event will later become important, though they may suspect.
But I did.I also liked the way the author weaves politics, war, betrayal, treachery and love into this story, and rather adeptly in my opinion.Such intricate plotting can often get tangled and leave open ends that frustrate a reader, but by the end of Kushiel's Dart, one feels satisfied that loose ends are tied up (At least most loose ends.
Others are left wide open purposefully- for the next novel.)Carey also meshes different genres well, though for romance reading purists this story probably won't receive high marks.
( I don't think I couldn've handled reading full on anguisette loving.)I think what I like best about the book is the world Carey created.The world-building!
Delaunay takes Phedre into his household, and gives her an education beyond that of any other courtesan.
The Author has chosen to base her mythology on jewish and christian beliefs, the brief story is that at the crucifiction of J-sus, His blood mixed with the magdalenes tears, and out of the earth sprang Elua, who was a sort of mortal deity.
From a christian point of view, I actually found it an interestinc concept, to see a fantasy mythology based on something which I consider to be fact..
this made me think more seriously about all the times I've read fantasy stories based on norse or greek mythology!
What a wonderful book.Thankfully, I did expect the BDSM and the sex, but I did not expect how amazing the world building would turn out to be.Kushiel's Dart is less a fantasy and more an alternative history of Europe.
Kushiel's followers endure and inflict pain, mingling it with pleasure.This book has a vast cast to the point where I was hugging the Dramatis Personae with tears in my eyes.
Especially because she seems to feel the same way about Melisande as I do.I recommend this to all fantasy fans who enjoy extensive world building, huge casts and romance.
On sale for $2.99 at US Amazon: January 7, 2017. OMG why is this book so long? No wonder it's been on my TBR shelf for over two years. I'm getting heavy R. Lee Smith vibes... I have developed an allergy to long books like this.
I mention this because, were this not the case, some of Carey's choices could be explained by Phedre's lack of knowledge or self-reflection in earlier stages of her life - but that's not an option.Maybe it's an asexual thing, to be hyper-tuned to situations of dubious consent and grooming?
As I said, I anticipated it and rightly so, but what I didn't anticipate was Carey's choice to draw a division between kinds of rape.Minor spoilers: Terrible things happen and Phedre gets drugged by the series antagonist and sent to be a slave to the not!Germans over the border.
Kushiel’s Dart is an epic book, which I enjoyed.
In fact, I long to read another book of this epic scale.
One is… I think the book is a little bit too long.
Carey sometimes describes unimportant things in exhaustive detail, and while I love her world building, her book would still have been lush and rich even if it was trimmed a little bit.
Being a huge erotica fan, I would have liked to have had more detailed love scenes, maybe divulging a little bit more into the dominance and submission of Phedre’s craft.
Feels like I just finished a whole series in a matter of days. Not quite fantasy but epic in scope and depth. There's a lot of world building that can seem like tedious writing at first, but all the disordered pieces of the puzzle do come together at the end and there's a huge pay off--the battle at the end had me on the edge of my seat for days.Star rating to be determined at a later date because I just don't know at the moment. There's a lot to unpack, still, but I'll definitely finish this series.
Sadly, I also bought the next two volumes.
Whereas the book began very, very slowly and introduced so many characters that they were difficult to keep track of, after I picked it up again and kept reading, I found a story that was intriguing and fun to follow, and characters who are real and interesting and very well-formed by Jacqueline Carey.
I fell in love with many of them and found myself unable to put the book down.
I'm nearly finished with it now, and I can't wait to dig in to the next two volumes.READ THIS BOOK.
Kushiel's Dart does deal with a lot of sex.
I think that even a person with no interest in BDSM in itself could enjoy the books, and just skim or skip the sex scenes if they're that troubling.
The voice is quite distinctive, being decidedly not modern English, although it does remind me a little of Fitz and Nevare in Robin Hobb's work -- I think it's mostly that they and Phèdre tell their stories from the same distance.This book is incredibly rich in terms of world building.
There's something I find incredibly compelling about the depth of loyalty Joscelin and Hyacinthe have for Phèdre in their different ways.
Somewhat appropriate that so much of this very, very, very long book is about masochism. Just saying.
ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature.I read and enjoyed Kushiel’s Dart years ago after it won the Locus Award for Best First Novel and I’ve recently re-read it so that I can finish the series (I’ve read only the first trilogy) and move on to Ms. Carey’s newer books.
This time I listened to Tantor Audio’s version, which was read by the incredibly talented Anne Flosnik.The Kushiel series is set in an alternate Europe which is easily recognized by its geography, language, culture, religion, mythology, and politics (e.g., ancient Tiberium is ancient Rome, Alba is England, the Yeshuites are Christians, the Tsingani are gypsies, etc.).
And if the one in the waning pages of Kushiel’s Dart consists of the type of thing that can only happen in movies or books, so be it.
So nothing at all like Game of Thrones; outside of a battle of nobility and some high quality intrigue.If Kushiel’s Dart is known for one thing it is the very sexual tone in the books.
It would be easy to mock the prostitute’s path as an easy way to turn up the thrills but Carey takes the time to build the land and the religion that follows it in a way that makes it seem natural.
But after the beginning and aside from the length, I loved this book.
It is beautifully written, the main character is inspiring, the side characters are fun to read about, the romance is very sweet, the world created is enormous and creative.
I love how the author pushes beyond what is comfortable for many people in terms of relationships and sexuality.
Unlike other reviews I have read, I disagree that this involves children employed in sex labor or child abuse.
I understand where their percetpion comes from and respect it, I just disagree.
I recently came to realize what I was doing - generalizing entire genres without a second thought - and once I did realize and actually picked up those I would have cast aside, I came across some of my favorite recent books, like Pierce Brown's Rising trilogy, Victoria Schwab's work, and now Kushiel's Dart.On the surface, sure, there's romance in the book, and in my mind most good stories need some kind of romance to have that feeling of completeness.
I can't imagine how anyone can look at Kushiel's Dart, see its labels, description, and page count and still think it's a shallow romance for kink-enthusiasts.
Almost 20 years after writing "Kushiel's Dart," I'm writing Joscelin's version of the story."This is Tor's Book of the month for July 2017, and available for free download (you need to provide an email address).
The world that Carey created has become like an old familiar friend to me.
Nevertheless because I am so fond of the world and characters she created, I raised my rating of this book from 3 to 4 stars.6th Read: 10/18/20165th Read: 6/11/20154th Read: 5/14/20133rd Read: 12/28/20112nd Read: May 2010Originially Read: 12/8/2008
DNF at 20%Fifty Shades, is that you?"When he went hungry, Naamah lay down with strangers in the marketplace for coin."\_(ツ)_/ A girl's gotta do what a girl's gotta do! I know how fantasy erotic is supposed to look like, and there is something wrong with "Kushiel's Dart" - "Inland to the north of Siovale LÁgnace, the grape-rich province of Anael, who is betimes called Star Of Love. Alongside it on the rocky coast is the province of Kusheth, where Kushiel made his home, all the way up to the Point
I know how fantasy erotic is supposed to look like, and there is something wrong with "Kushiel's Dart" - "Inland to the north of Siovale LÁgnace, the grape-rich province of Anael, who is betimes called Star Of Love.
I see so many stars for this one, that I feel puzzled how people can love it so much.As your own ass can cover only one seat, it was very annoying when author mind-jumped to many things at once so much, that you lost the main storyline.
I think the main point must be the story, not making reader remember all the hints that might mean something only to say "Oh, she said so!"What I couldn't stand was sex.
