https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40384.Synthetic_Men_of_Mars
Arguably, this is where the Mars series begins its downhill slide (which means that, percentage-wise, John Carter has less dross than the other major series -- Tarzan, Venus and Pellucidar).This book is again narrated from the perspective of a native Barsoomian, Vor Daj, who accompanies John Carter on one of his adventures.
I wouldn't say it should be avoided, but I wouldn't say it needs to be sought out unless you absolutely, positively have to read more Barsoomian adventures.
(For which I wouldn't blame you -- I've certainly read the book many times over the years.)
How can you resist a character grown in a culture vat, whose name Tor-Dur-Bar means four-million-eight, and whom the hero first encounters as a severed head which complains it can't see from where it is being carried in a net strapped to the back of a giant man-carrying bird?!?Especially, when later on our current hero Vor Daj has his brain transferred into Tor-Dur-Bar's repulsive body in order to rescue princess Janai, the current damsel-in-distress, after first transferring the loyal Tor-Dur-Bar's brain into the well-built and handsome physique of erstwhile opponent, Gantun Gur. All of this in aid of finding and retrieving the Mastermind of Mars, Ras Thavas, whose skills are required to heal John Carter's beloved, 'the incomparable' Deja Thoris, who lies at death's door following an injury.Meanwhile, back at Ras thavas' laboratory, things have gone horribly wrong with the culture vats, and the resulting immense, multi-headed monstrousity breaks free from confinment and threatens to engulf the entire planet as it grows beyond all constraints to overwhelm Ras thavas' entire island base.
"Synthetic Men of Mars" is the 9th of 11 books in Edgar Rice Burroughs' John Carter of Mars series.
This leads to John Carter delivering one of his most touching lines: "It is the character that makes the man...not the clay which is its abode." So what we have here is a fantastic tale of wild imagination, with some touching passages and incessant action.So why, then, have I only given this novel three stars?
During the swamp escape, Vor Daj is accompanied by a party of five others, including a man named Gan Had, who later deserts him.
The two of them fall into the hands of the Hormads, creatures created by Thavas in vats on an island in the great Toonolian Marshes.If all of this sounds a bit confusing, one only needs to read the previous John Carter books to make sense of it.
All of these names and places stem from the previous tales.Burroughs seems to delight in creating ever more grotesque creatures as this series goes on; in this case it is the Hormads, misshapen creatures that can not be killed except by fire.
I only have two more books to complete the John Carter series.
I loved this whole series. It's pretty sexual and macho and they're all massive page-turners.Same review for each.
A man who has succeeded in his nightmare wish of creating life in his own beings – creatures that ultimately rebel and threaten the lives of Ras Thavas, of John Carter and of all Mars.
The hero and narrator of this the ninth in Burroughs’ Martian series, is Vor Daj who perhaps predictably, falls in love with a captured beauty, Janai, who is also coveted by an evil Jeddak (much as John Carter when he was captured by the green man of Mars fell in love with a captured Dejah Thoris, who was also coveted by an evil green Martian Jeddak).
This is the tale of one Vor Daj. John Carter went in search of Ras Tavas, and yielding to pleas, brought along one soldier.
They quickly find that finding him will not be easy.Indeed, they are taken prisoner, along with some others, include one woman, and taken to the city, encircled by marshes, where they find that Ras Thavas is the prisoner of his own synthetic men, and forced to produce more and more of the virtually unkillable monsters.
And to transplant the brains of the most powerful of them to the bodies of red men -- much to the peril of Janai, the woman.Ras Thavas is perfectly willing to do what John Carter asks -- if they can only escape.
Dejah Thoris is having personal, lady troubles, so John Carter hooks up with a random bro to help him find Barsoom's greatest mad scientist.
Shub-Niggurath ensues.So the old "beauty = good/ugly = evil" trope gets the full treatment here.
So imagine the poor hero's consternation when his gentlemanly brain is stuffed into an ugly body, and he's so ashamed that he's unable to confess his love for a beautiful princess.
In fact, he even considers suicide.Will she discover her love for him, despite his hideous form?
There is much hand-wringing over the issue.
You'd think such manly warriors wouldn't be so vain.
Vor Daj quickly falls in love with a woman named Janai, and learns from Thavas that he considers himself a prisoner of Morbus, although he is somewhat content with his work, intending to create a Martian master race, having learned to reproduce life by studying lesser lifeforms.When Janai goes away, Vor Daj wants his brain placed into the body of a hormad so he can follow in secret, and thus, his mind goes into one named Tor-dur-bar, becoming a Guard of the Third Jed and rescuing her.
Still in love with Janai, Vor Daj ensures that his original body is safe, and the maiden along with John Carter ultimately disappears once again.
The mad Scientist, Ras Thavis, of "The Mastermind of Mars" is back; this time he has created a monstrosity that could engulf all of Mars, after creating an army of hormads - synthetic men. John Carter is seeking him out, believing that he is the only one who can heal Dejah Thoris of a horrible injury. The story is told from the viewpoint of Carter's lieutenant, Vor Daj, who has his brain transferred to a hormad head as the plot develops.
Entertaining and original. A step up from the previous book in the series in imagination.
Again astonishing ERB story.
It's one of the weaker Barsoom books. But the mad science is fun and it's a short enjoyable romp.
fast read, man gets brain transplaned into ugly alien.
Since the character of Ras Thavas was featured in both the John Carter volumes I absolutely did not enjoy (THE MASTER MIND OF MARS and JOHN CARTER OF MARS), I was not looking forward to seeing him return, which is why I put off reading SYNTHETIC MEN OF MARS until the very end.
Turns out, though, my dread for this novel was misplaced.
The ridiculous body-swapping element from MASTER MIND is still present, but this time Burroughs uses it in a fun, memorable sort of way.
I wouldn't call it a good novel in the traditional sense, but it does manage to entertain.
In this book, we meet again Ras Thavas, the Master Mind of Mars, whose latest invention, the vat-grown synthetic men or hormads, have gotten out of his control and taken over his base, the island city of Morbus in the marshes of Toonol.
Thus he sets out to search for Ras Thavas with Vor Daj, the narrator of the story.They are captured by hormads riding on giant birds and carried to Morbus, where Ras Thavas is working as a captive of his own creations.
In one scene John Carter uses the word Frankensteinian while speaking to Ras Thavas, and the latter does not ask any questions.
Synthetic Men of Mars is the 9th book in Edgar Rice Burroughs' Martian Tales and it is also one of the best of the latter part of the series.
Despite Carter being key to the story, the tale is told from Vor Daj's point of view and he takes takes center stage as it's hero.
Vor Daj has Thavas transfer his brain into the body of a hulking "hormad" (a synthetic mutant) in a failed escape attempt but, when seperated from Carter and Thavas, he is trapped there and most now fight to save a captive martian woman and find the Master Mind of Mars to return him to his body.
These were considered "planetary romances" according to one source back when this series from the creator of Tarzan, Edgar Rice Burroughs, was written.
It's a Virginian, John Carter, an immortal, who is able to pass back and forth between bodies: one on Earth, the other on Mars.I read these books because they were an inspiration to other authors, such as Conan creator, Robert E, Howard, who paid tribute to Burrough's in his novella,  Almuric.
At the heart of today's popular sci-fi there are traces of Burroughs and John Carter of Mars.I was most interested in finding traces of George Lucas's Star Wars in these books; and traces abound.
Johncarterus ex machina like nobody's biz; the pacing is like Burroughs got sick of writing about the privations of a Noble White-I-Mean-Red Martian dude stuck in a (functional, efficient, healthy) fug body but he didn't want to work out a plot mechanism to get out of it so he just threw good ol' J-Car on the page and had him fix everything.The theme/subject matter had simultaneously the most potential and the least utility of any of the Barsoom books so far.
That's not Burroughs' intended audience - I don't think he gave a second of thought to the concept of disabled or partially abled readers - and, TO AN EXTENT, the book gets a pass because it's from Martian perspective, but otherwise...
This is book 9 of Burroughs' Barsoom (Mars) series.
Burroughs started the series in 1917, and this book was written 22 years later, after his fame had been well established for a generation.
It's a reunion of a few established characters, but mostly the adventure of Vor Daj, a young guard serving John Carter, the Warlord of Mars.
The story was made more interesting for me than it might have been, by the necessity for Vor Daj to keep his true identity secret from Janai.
This serves the purpose of diverting the mind from more serious if tedious reading.
Alas, the vigour of the earlier Barsoomian stories has grown attenuated and repetitive in this book.
Still it has its moments, one almost Swiftian, in which Burroughs mocks the pretensions of some aspects of society which he knew.
I have noticed as I read through this series that Burroughs becomes more explicit and suggestive as he goes along.
In the first several books, no hint of prurience is tolerated and it is assumed that any woman is safe from molestation (if not from death) anywhere on Mars.
La novena novela de Marte es probablemente la más entretenida ya que tiene elementos de los más originales (con respecto a los otros libros de la saga) y las situaciones más divertidas e inesperadas usando nuevas razas y territorios de Marte a la vez que recupera a Ras Thavas, The Master Mind of Mars.Imprescindible haber leído antes el libro The Master Mind of Mars. De lectura muy recomendable.
Typical of Burroughs's later Barsoom novels, 'Synthetic Men of Mars' is more slowly paced, with its characters spending more time plotting than sword-fighting.
It remains inventive, even if the science part of the science fiction here is often a bit preposterous.
ERB, as usual, manages to throw in his social commentary -- the dry humor involved sometimes works, sometimes comes off as heavy-handed.An enjoyable enough escapist read, SMOM is not the equal of the early Barsoom work.
The wonder of his imagined Mars and the strong character who is John Carter do not come through here -- they are only echoes of the original concept.
This was my second read of Burrough's novel; the last time was in the 1970s!
This time I read it in anticipation of the pending nominations for the 1941 RetroHugos for this year at MidAmericonII.A fun adventure story (with a little romance), new readers to Burroughs need to read with the time period of the book's writing in mind.
No, you won't think everything is "politically correct"; but simply appreciate the good changes that have happened since 1940 and move on to the adventure of the story.Although not seen as one of the best of the Barsoom (Mars) books, this one is a fast escapist novel.
A return to the scene of Mastermind of Mars. There's a little body-swapping, plus clone warfare and a gray goo scenario. The romance this time has a strong "beauty's only skin deep" theme, which (like book 7) represents a welcome twist relative to the love-at-first-sight plot driver otherwise so prevalent on Barsoom. But this wasn't in the top half of the series. There's nothing very complicated or interesting about the plot. Stupidity is a repeated motif. The discussion of air traffic patterns in everyday Amhor actually was a bonus, and I guess that says it all.
Please note, this 5 star rating is based on my long ago memories of this book - I may have read it greater than 20 years ago. I recall reading and really liking it, and even kept the book to read again in the future (something I only do with good, or otherwise significant books). The memories of an old man are sometimes faulty so this could really only warrant 3.5 to 4.5 stars, instead of the 5 I gave it. Once I re-read the book I will update this rating/review to more accurately reflect my thoughts.
This was one of the few Burroughs books I picked up in Chicago during the school year rather than up in Michigan during the summer. I recall reading it in one sitting one night in bed in my room on Belle Plaine Avenue in Park Ridge, Illinois, probably during the Christmas vacation. I also recall thinking it rather silly--so much so that this may have been the last time I read one of Burroughs' books.
Another wild Martian tale from the pen of Edgar Rice Burroughs. John Carter is in this one but he is not front and center. Dejah Thoris is back in Helium with a broken back and John Carter has gone in search of Ras Thevas (The Master Mind of Mars) to heal her. But he's up to his eyeballs(literally) in synthesizing grotesque humanoids for an army. Burroughs always gets me to turn the page no matter how outlandish his tales.
Kevin Beverley introduced me to Goodreads through his posts on Facebook. Following Kevin's example, I explored the program and developed a list of books to read. Synthetic Men of Mars is a science fiction novel written by Tarzan's creator Edgar Rice Burroughs. A bit old-fashioned when compared with today's Sci Fi novels and not so well written as other books by Burroughs, it nevertheless moves quickly; it has a romantic theme and a happy ending, in which the hero wins the princess.
It's the Barsoom series, so this is pretty par for the course. Like many of the others, an interesting read, albeit somewhat predictable. However, the plot line is enough to keep me reading, and will not deter me from reading the last two in the series. What is interesting about this series is how Burroughs finds ways to bring new life to past characters and his ability to simply create a new species of people for the purposes of a new book. It works. It's formulaic, but it works.
