https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/258079.The_Go_Between
Probably not, but I will because it does sum up the book; "The past is a foreign country: they do things differently there." In the early 1950s Leo Colston looks back on the long hot summer of 1900 when he turned 13, the memory of which he has blanked out.
Hartley describes life in an English preparatory school rather well and the relationship between Leo and Marcus Maudsley is believeable throughout.
The tragedy is played out in the shimmering heat of the summer, set around life in the Hall, a cricket match and a general sense late Victorian/Edwardian sense of progress.The description of a hot English summer is spot on ( I'm being reminded of that at the moment!)and there is plenty of symbolism going on beneath.
In the summer of 1900 just under 13 years old Leo Colston, imaginative and sensitive boy receives an invitation to spend part of holidays with his schoolmate Marcus Maudsley in his family country estate, impressive Brandham Hall.
But you were called Mercury as well, the messenger of the gods and you believed at that and, lost in adult’s world and also in own half awaken sexuality, convinced of own greatness and magic abilities , elated by glorious summer, you tried to change course of events.
It has, of course, one of the most famous opening lines in literature - "The past is a foreign country: they do things differently there." Published in 1953, it is narrated by Leo Colston, who is sixty-odd when we first meet him, but is looking back on events in the hot summer of 1900, when he visited a school-friend, Marcus Maudsley, and his family, at Brandham Hall.This is a very evocative novel, which really encapsulates the past well.
A wonderful novel and one which encapsulates so much about a certain time so well.
Invited down for the summer to the opulent Brandham Hall by Marcus (a friend from his public school), Leo feels both enthralled by the prospect of mingling with the rich Maudsley family and anxious about his own social status.
On a trip to an improvised swimming pool he meets another adult that would have a major impact on his summer days: Ted Burgess is not a member of the Brandham Hall social circle, he is just a farmer out for a quick dip in the water, yet his physical presence is arresting.Without going into one too many plot details, Leo ends up visiting Ted at his farm and becomes a bearer of secret messages between him and Miss Marian.
Hartley, in an interview, wrote:I wanted to evoke the feeling of that summer [in 1900], the long stretch of fine weather, and also the confidence in life, the belief that all's well with the world, which everyone seemed to enjoy before the First World War...The Boer War was a local affair, and so I was able to set my little private tragedy against a general background of security and happiness."Ostensibly this is a story about a thirteen-year-old private-school boy, Leo, at the turn of the twentieth century spending a month in the summer at the house of a wealthier school chum, Marcus.
Look, just give me a book by a Brit with two initials whose observance is all the more sensual for being somehow repressed, and set him aloose on the pre-war countryside, okay? I'm easy.The climactic action of this book is when a kid rips up a shrub, yet, I liked it.
Hartley quickly and explicitly expresses his debt to Proust and posits that an author, though wedded to the present, writes better when reflecting on the past, where impressions formed are 'most fertile for literary creation.' He tells us also that The Go-Between 'is pregnant with symbols,' naming a few, and then somewhat incongruously saying, 'But I have never deliberately introduced a symbol into any of my books.' Let me say here that I don't disbelieve him.
I will be putting that right soon.My sense is that 'The Go-Between' has fallen out of favour since the film, and may well be destined to languish in relative obscurity in a few decades time.
It’s a masterpiece.There is so much to enjoy here: the glorious writing; the evocation of the seemingly perfect Summer; the realistic insights into the mind of a 13 year old boy struggling to make sense of the adult world; the boundaries of Edwardian society; the Norfolk landscape; and the dangerous, illicit love affair at the book’s core.However, beyond the surface pleasures, lurk darker themes.
When Leo discovers “the matter” of his “go-between” ventures, he says “Not Adam and Eve, after eating the apple, could have been more upset than I was.”Disturbed by the rising conflicts in this affair in which he is now empathetically entangled, he questions his own position in this amorous pursuit:“What an Eden Brandham Hall had been before this serpent entered it!”As Adam and Eve tried to cover themselves when they become aware of their nakedness after committing the ‘forbidden’ act, Leo too feels the shame of the affair he is caught up in and tries to “to cover her shame”.I’ve read that Hartley had put all he knew in this book, I can’t help but agreeing to it even if it may sound like an exaggeration.
Without revealing further interesting aspects of this rather-disturbing story, I am ending this gibberish of a writing here with a hope that you might like this book as much as I do.
It is told by a much older Leo Colston from his “box of memories” and concerns the summer of 1900 when, as a youth of thirteen, he spends much of the summer at the residence of his classmate, Martin Maudsley.
The passage of many decades allows the older Leo to offer some perspective on what the young Leo was enthralled by.
When the older Leo actually returns to Norfolk to seek out the Maudsleys, we come to understand more of the context, but not all.This is a clever, well-written, novel that didn’t quite “click” for me.
The story is told by a sixty-two year old man, Leo Colston.
The story revolves around what happened in those few weeks and how what happened changed Colston's life forever.
The story does not feel told, but vividly experienced as the elderly man relives the events of that summer.
You never forget that it is the elderly English man speaking.
This coldness reflects who Leo Colston came to be, but I find it questionable that such a man would have any interest in telling us his story!The audiobook narration by Sean Barrett is easy to follow and properly displayed the cold manner of the central protagonist.
It is an unusually hot English summer in 1900.
Sweltering temperatures echo simmering passions behind a facade of rules, manners and decorum.
Twelve year old Leo spends his summer holidays visiting a school friend at his home, Brandham Hall.
Leo is out of his class and out of his depth.
Intoxicated by their party lifestyle, he is manipulated with charm and his schoolboy innocence is used as a means of deceit.The novel is narrated by Leo, as a child and as an older man.
He recalls the events of a summer which become emotionally significant in his life.
It's been a long time since I've been so flummoxed by a book that it leaves me (almost) without words.One part of my mind says this: I like the writing well enough, and Hartley seems to spin a well-constructed story; and for the most part, it isn't objectionable.
I objected to his affected naivety which, at times, co-mingled with a worldly arrogance of class-conscious superiority.
(hide spoiler)]The boy (Leo is his name) is also playing out a CinderFella fantasy, it strikes me.
(With apologies to Jerry Lewis!) (view spoiler)[Leo ends up being the star of the cricket match...
The household will be happy to have my attention again.
It hasn't seen a flicker of it since I started reading this book.
Yet even knowing what was going to happen, the story in the book still felt new to me.
And by the end of the book, the crystalline narration , that is never precious, had made his memories, my memories.
It doesn't call attention to itself.
Everything I know about cricket is from 'Netherland', and Masterpiece Theater, which is probably about as useful as having all your baseball knowledge from 'Underworld'.
We all know how that plays out on the surface.
It's his older, 60 plus years, self that I find problematic.
But the listless passivity of so many years?
The best thing about the book is that it looks back with a nostalgia that is living and breathing- so exact to nuance and context and physical reaction that it is still alive.
Nostalgia has gotten a bad rap in the last decade or two, IMHO.
I couldn't stand Marian the first time around, and this time I nearly felt hostile.
It is probably a 5 star but I couldn't enjoy it to a 5 star level.
This is one of the most perfect novels ever written.
It has many layers and levels, thanks to its brilliant narrative structure of an old man recollecting a tragic love story he witnessed in intense close up as a young boy.
For the story is not just about what happened when the narrator was a boy, but how it changed his life as a man and how, towards the end of his life, writing about it changed him again.It is evocative and sensual like nothing else I've read.
For whatever reason, Atonement didn't work for me, but this one did.The majority of the story takes place in England in the summer of 1900, but Hartley brings that alive in a way that makes it familiar to someone like me who has never set foot (yet) in England or lived during the summer of 1900.
As things tend to go.I can't say what it is in this book that works for me more than Atonement because it's been too long since I've read McEwan's novel.
It is not a way of life to be envied, but more a chilling snapshot into an era where people were almost sent mad with repressed desires and emotions; even just uttering a word out of place would result in a frosty reprisal.Although the dullness of Victorian life here is depicted with a critical eye, it is not without a certain fondness, which is the weakest point of this novel.
A beautiful punch in the stomach.
Leo is staying at a Norfolk country house with his school friend Marcus and Marcus' family.Essentially it is a story of a life wasted and the reasons why Leo catalogues other peoples books instead of writing his own.
It's about a new century that promised so much and by the time of writing had delivered 2 world wars and disappointment.
P. Hartley gets into the head of a 12/13-year-old boy so brilliantly I could begin to remember all my own fears, embarrassments and the things that excited me.I can't praise this book highly enough.
The novel opens with the narrator, Leo Colston, now in his 60s, reminiscing about the summer of 1900 when at age twelve he spent a month at a large country estate with his wealthy school chum, Marcus Maudsley, and Marcus's sophisticated and pretty older sister Marian.
Marian is having a very illicit affair with a local tenant farmer, Ted Burgess.
Leo becomes complicit in the affair as Marian and Ted use him to ferry messages between them.
Also present is the young facially disfigured war veteran Viscount Hugh Trimingham, trying to win Marian's affections.
Leo, in awe of all of them, is caught in a snare of trying to please everyone at once.

(Also having decided to read some of the unread 1001 Books novels I own.) I loved the Hollinghurst so much I wanted to read bits of it again straight away, but knowing this is usually just a good way of making myself bored of anything, I took some tangents instead.
Whilst probably not so ubiquitous in the 1950s (meaning that for me the book suffered a little by being read after inferior works it influenced) it has the now-common framing device of an older character looking back on an event which had reverberations adversely affecting the rest of their life.
Easily now one of my favorite novels. Hartley's ability to write children is amazing. This is a must-read, heartbreakingly good.
This novel seemed to have all the ingredients of a perfect novel for me: set in pre-World War 1 England at a country house with some dubious, arrogant characters and one or two likeable ones, with a hint of a small pending disaster - like a good mix of Forster and Waugh with a bit of Atonement thrown it.
What I do applaud was how the author created a very plausible 13-year-old narrator with all his worries and ignorance of the adult world, but I must admit that he annoyed me when he constantly sought praise and wanted to be the center of attention.
” Ted şi cu mine eram îndrăgostiţi unul de altul.
Da, eram.
Dar nu îndrăgostiţi obişnuiţi, în sensul vulgar al cuvântului, nu în felul în care se iubesc oamenii astăzi.
Dragostea noastră era un lucru frumos, nu-i aşa ?
Am fi renunţat la orice unul pentru celălalt.
Eram făcuţi unul pentru celălalt.
îţi mai aduci aminte cum a fost vara aceea ?
Cea mai frumoasă dintre toate ?
Ia spune, care era lucrul cel mai frumos din ea ?
Nu eram noi şi sentimentele noastre ?
N-aveai senzaţia că toate celelalte - casa, lumea care venea şi pleca - nu însemnau nimic ?”
Great quote from this book:"The past is a foreign country: they do things differently there."
Although an excellent embodiment of the class hierarchy at the close of the Victorian age, The Go-Between does not quite achieve classical status (except for its opening sentence.) The plot could serve as a flat-out tragedy, but Leo’s role both as narrator and messenger lowers the status.
Ted’s status as member of the NCO class (perfect for the period) would indeed have changed dramatically in the second decade of the century - he would not have remained an other rank for long.
In many ways, it's an idyllic vision of an English summer, but I also liked that one of the central metaphors of the book is a poisonous plant growing out of control on the edges of the estate.
I often find plants sinister, so that image resonated with me.The second great thing about this novel is the subtle craftsmanship of the narrator's voice.
With twelve-year-old Leo Colston, Hartley captures the perspective of a child who longs to to be validated by the adult society around him, but who is unable to understand its emotional motivations.
Wasn't too sure what to expect with this but it ended up far exceeding my expectations. The story of the twelve year old (going on thirteen) Leo Colston, who finds himself ill equipped to deal with a situation far beyond his years. This is a beautifully written, evocative novel. There is more here then first appears to the reader and I found myself thinking about the novel long after I'd finished.
