https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/131885.Fearful_Symmetry
Because of how labrynthine and involuted Blake's writing was - especially in the prophetic books - there are necessarily quite a few 25-30 page sections of pure summary, things like "Urothria is the son of Spooptapulus, wife of Borg, which means that the artistic imagination reigns supreme in the third dyad, blah blah blah." I just made those names up, but I'm going to guess that the effect of them is about the same as the effect of Blake's real counters on someone (like me) who hasn't read the thousands of pages of poetry/myth that Frye is describing.
345)In Frye's view the England's mythopoetic tradition was founded by Spencer who combined symbols from Arthurian tales, popular superstition and Biblical images in his epic the Faerie Queene.
Nonetheless, the combination of elements from English folklore, the Edda, and Bible found in Tolkien's work make it difficult to see the Lord of the Rings as anything else but a part of the tradition of Spencer, Milton and Blake.One also feels that Blake's synthesis of various mythologies and his expressed belief that there this is "only one language and one religion" are consistent with those of Joseph Campbell who created the model for the on-going Star Wars saga.
One of the two seminal works on Blake in the twentieth century, the second being Erdman's Prophet Against Empire. Frye's study of Blake led to his Anatomy of Criticism, a defining work within literary criticism in English. Frye's work is a study of Blake's symbols, approaching Blake's work as myth (as opposed to Erdman's, who reads Blake's work historically). It's still an excellent work for someone first venturing in to Blake's labyrinthine prophet works.
This is a profound work of criticism, the subject being the life work of William Blake. It's very unusual in its poetic and visionary content. This is a very far out book, which altered my conceptions of Blake, as well as the Bible, and world history.
“Read Blake or go to Hell.”
"Cosmology is a literary art, but there are two kinds of cosmology, the kind designed to understand the world as it is, and the kind designed to transform it into the form of human desire.
What the mirror shows us is what Blake calls “mathematic form,” the automatic and mindless universe that has no beginning nor end, no up nor down.
Blake’s cosmology, of which the symbol is Ezekiel’s vision of the chariot of God with its “wheels within wheels,” is a revolutionary vision of the universe transformed by the creative imagination into a human shape.
Northrop Frye is one of those amazing literary critics no one's ever heard of. I first discovered him when handed a collection of lectures he gave on canadian radio. This is a very astute reading of Blake.
Frye offers up a compelling interpretation of the entire corpus of Blake's work. If you love Blake, you will love Fearful Symmetry.
An excellent book about Blake's theories and concerns. If your thinking about trying to make sense of his intense poetic visions, this is a good place to start.
Reading William Blake's longer poems like "The Four Zoas" or the earlier prophetic books can be daunting.
Northrop Frye published "Fearful Symmetry" in 1947, his first book, and it really foreshadows his lifelong work to create a critical tradition that magnifies the breadth of Western literature by restoring the mythological grounding and investing that with modern psychological insights.
Blending an analysis and defence of the artwork of the "madman" and printer of Lambeth with his illuminated words, Northrop Frye restored William Blake to the canon of great English Romantic Poets by demonstrating that his "insanity" was a revolt against the cruelty and arid rationalism of his time.
As I said about in my review of William Blake's works, there is an audience for this but it's not me. If you are interested in literary criticism, 18th century philosophy, and the unusual cosmology/mythology of Blake, this is the ideal book for you. If not, then you may want to dip into this book as you read works by Blake. That's what I'm doing and Frye provides as lucid an introduction as is possible for Blake.
Art is neither good nor bad, but a clairvoyant vision of the nature of both....
Art is neither true nor false, but a clairvoyant vision of the nature of both...."...."Now just as the poet is brought up to speak and write one particular language, so he is brought up in the traditions of one particular religion.
And his function as a poet is to concentrate on the myths of that religion, and to recreate the original imaginative life of those myths by transforming them into unique works of art.
The best book on Blake; by far.
Don't let anyone tell you that you'll never read one of the books that has sat for decades on your shelves unread. I'm now reading Northrop Frye's Fearful Symmetry, a study of William Blake's poerty, the very same copy that I bought about 40 years ago, and have been lugging about for just as long in the clear and unremitting anticipation that one day I would actually read it. And so I am. I'll report later whether it was worth the wait.
I used this book in college to write my senior thesis about Blake's portrayal of women in the Marriage of Heaven and Hell, Songs of Innocence and Experience, and The Visions of the Daughters of Albion. Honestly, my paper was pretty god awful, I think. I wish someone would have told me that. Instead, I got an A I believe. Anywho, that's my story. (P.S. Blake was kind of crappy toward women, like just about every one of his contemporaries.)
This is quite a book, and one that you wade through the first time, and go back to a second. Frye's first major work of criticism, it rescued the poetry of William Blake from allegations of obscurity. As someone who reads, writes and enjoys paranormal literature, I was fascinated by Blake's idea that all languages and religions have their roots in a primordial myth. Rich stuff to play around with!
I'm always returning to this book in conjunction with reading William Blake. I'd love to contact my old college prof and ask if he would please send me a copy of his notes on the class he taught on Blake and Whitman.
best book i have read about Blake
Bookmarked at page 22.
Love it! Frye is brilliant in his specific criticism.
Just brushing up on Blake for my Blake seminar. Deep work.
Among the three books of prose about poetry essential to me.
