https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/232577.Gorillas_in_the_Mist
Re- reading 2nd timeSad that poaching of our wild leads to extinction of our beloved animals!Dian FosseyDian Fossey, in November 1984Born January 16, 1932San Francisco, California, U.S.It's Not Goodbye - Sweet November MVhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pq6ls...Died December 26, 1985 (aged 53)Volcanoes National Park,RwandaMurderCitizenship United StatesFields Ethology, primatologyInstitutions Karisoke Research Center,Cornell UniversityAlma materCollege of Marin, (1949-1950)San Jose State University (B.A.,Occupational therapy, 1954)Darwin College, Cambridge(Ph.D., Zoology, 1974)Known for Study and conservation of themountain gorillaInfluences Jane Goodall, Louis Leakey,George SchallerAfter I saw the movie "Gorillas in the Mist," I had to read this bookGorillas in the Mist (1988) Official Trailer - Sigourney Weaver, Bryan Brown Movie HDhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-PPSI...Gorillas in the Mist is Dian Fossey’s account of thirteen years spent learning mountain gorillas on the Virunga volcanic mountains.
spent with the mountain gorillas in their natural habitat." Two years after publishing this book in 1983, Fossey was murdered--the case still remains unsolved.
I had read Jane Goodall's memoir, Reason for Hope, just before reading Fossey's book.
The irony is that as the Entertainment Weekly article pointed out, it's the success of the tourism Fossey opposed "that has protected the mountain apes, by making them worth infinitely more to Rwandans than the value of their habitat as crop land."I can't help but compare Fossey's legacy--and the impression she made on me in her book--to that of Jane Goodall.
3.5 starsI can’t even begin to imagine how Dian Fossey lived for so many years in the mountains in Rwanda.
I like my personal space and solitude, but that sounds a bit much, even for me!
I also couldn’t understand how she could have so much information on several groups of gorillas (she’s only one woman - how did she manage to observe more than 4 groups of gorillas so closely with only the help of some trackers?), but this was answered toward the end of the book when she talked about students and assistants.

Which would bring us to the vexed question of euthanasia if I allowed my mind to pursue this gambit so I had better not let it!
(I don't agree with suicide/euthanasia personally but I also don't believe I have the right to make that decision for anyone else so you get to make your own rules, baby.....and if that's not a cute piece of sophistical squirming, I can't do any better....la la la....)I have recently realised that I love this sort of memoir.
Throughout reading my mind kept drifting to the later issues and conflicts in Rwanda and I wonder how the gorillas are.
HERBACEOUS FOLIAGE! Anyone who knows anything about Fossey and her research knows the highlights (or lowlights, as the most memorable are also the saddest) of her story. This really gives a closer look at the day-to-day and the way Fossey worked from her own point of view. It's understood straight away that she feels strongly, very, no extremely strongly. She beats you over the head with what her views are, how she thinks things should be done in regards to conservation, and how they should not
This really gives a closer look at the day-to-day and the way Fossey worked from her own point of view.
This book is largely personal and intimate in regards to individual gorillas and that is where it succeeds best.
Dian Fossey was a champion for the gorillas and in the end it would seem that her passion in their conservation most likely was the cause for her own murder.
This was of coarse not part of the book, but I feel it necessary to pay tribute at this point to the passionate woman that gave everything to her cause.
Fossey states "one of the greatest drawbacks of the Virungas is that it is shared by three countries each of which has problems far more urgent than the protection of wild animals."Gorillas in the Mist provides not just a wonderful picture and insight into the lives of the gorillas, but into the mind of this rare woman who worked with them.
She typed her field notes on a daily basis and expected the others who she worked with to do the same.Dian had a great love of animals not just her gorillas.
I really got a true sense of how much Fossy really loves these animals.Fossy first became intrigued by gorillas in 1973 when she took her first safari to Africa.
After giving away everything she owned, she started her 13 year study of gorillas in the Virungas Mountains.I never knew how gorillas lived their daily life and how the survive.
The gorillas also had to deal with the natural hazords such as the search for food, water and a safe place to sleep.Fossy not only loved the gorillas but would help any animal she came in contact with.
She loved these animals so much that all gorillas she came in contact with an own personal name.
The legendary autobiographical account of Dian Fossey and her passionate quest to study and save the few remaining mountain gorillas from extinction. I am glad that I read this book AFTER our own mountain gorilla trek, because I was able to connect with her commentary regarding the jungle, the local culture, and the trekking experience more completely. The book is a bit confusing with regards to timeline, but Fossey's strength of character and heroism clearly showed through. I would recommend this to anyone interested in zoology, botany, and especially, conservation ecology.
Everybody should read this book!
(You may have heard of it.) Dr. Fossey moved to the Virungas of Africa (Zaire, Uganda, and Rwanda) to study the mountain gorillas that lived there.
However, she wasn't only studying the habits of the gorillas but also the parasites, environment (rainfall), vegetation, and the other animals that lived there (elephants, buffalo, duiker).
(Basically, whatever she and her team could study they did to increase their chances of getting more grant money and lengthening their stay.) One of the things that Fossey stressed was that it would take more than passive conservation (tourism) to keep the mountain gorillas alive and thriving.
I'm so fascinated and awed by this book and it's author. Amazing descriptions of the environment and fantastic portraits of the gorillas. The book is written with such passion and enthusiasm for all the animals in Virunga and the helping hands at the Karisoke center. Such a wonderful, passionate and strong woman!
If there is one redeeming quality, it's that Fossey's endless fascination and love for her research/research subjects most certainly shows.
No, not due to the subject of the book, or even due to Fossey's personal experiences she recounts in her book.
The dry style numbed my emotional responsiveness to situation described in the book to the point where reading about gorillas falling prey to poachers (for example) aroused only a bland uninterested "Oh." Then, the over-repetition quickly diminished what little interest I could manage to muster otherwise, until the only thing that kept me reading was just that innate stubbornness to finish every book I start.I can only recommend this to those with an exceptional fascination towards gorillas.
So it's a very interesting literary artifact but it seems dated now and I think it's of primary interest as it charts the origin of the realisation that these animals need to be preserved and by using the funds that people pay to visit them, their future can be guaranteed.I did the trek myself just after I finished the book and it's probably one of the most amazing things I have ever done - walking with Gorillas.
And I think this book probably helped to preserve the species, which is an amazing impact in itself.
The story of Dian Fossey and her work with the mountain gorillas in the Virunga Volcanic region of Rwanda is nothing short of incredible.
She gave her life in an effort to make us aware of the importance of conservation issues all over the world.My only problem with the book is its slightly confusing chronology.
This made the storyline hard to follow even though I read it pretty quickly.Despite the confusing series of events, Gorillas in the Mist is a captivating and moving story about a woman who was passionate about her work with the mountain gorillas.
Although I read this book a long time ago, it is a must read. It will capture your heart and you will see the violence that done to the gorillas. You get an account of her murder as well. I have never forgotten this one. Definitely one of my favorites!
Fascinating read about Dian Fossey's experiences. I couldn't put it down. It really gave me a taste for my upcoming trip to Uganda and Rwanda in March to see the mountain gorillas. I can't wait to come face to face with these majestic creatures.
Dian Fossey delivered. I believe she wrote a true account of the pioneering research of the wild gorillas while at the same time providing her own emotional account. I am truly grateful that she wrote this book prior to her murder. The gorillas' spirits lived on through her story.
A fascinating look at Dian Fossey's work with gorillas, but don't read it while you're eating (like I did)-- there's one spot where she talks about a certain bodily function of gorillas that's rather gaggish.
Poachers and their traps were not the only dangers: Fossey writes of a French film crew “harassing” one group, leading a female to have a miscarriage, and she writes with anger over Cologne Zoo’s request for an infant – those tasked with capturing one of necessity had to kill adults, and the two orphans who were eventually dispatched to Europe inevitably failed to thrive.A photo Fossey took of Digit became the face of Rwandan tourism, which was not an activity Fossey wanted to encourage.
Me acerqué a este libro gracias a la película con Sigourney Weaver, me apasionaba mucho la figura que representaba de Dian Fossey, pero claro que lo que más me gustó del libro fue que me quitó de lado esa imagen para poner otra más real y verdadera, la de aquella estudiante que se apasionaba por rastrar y tuvo un maestro que le ayudó a ver sus errores, aquella que cargaba con libreta, grabadora de cintas y revistas, la que aprendió el lenguaje de los gorilas y que también la científica que sabía de su trabajo.
En este libro también se nota que aunque ella se dedicaba a observar y no intervenir, a veces los gorilas aceptaban su presencia y ellos agarraban objetos suyos.
It was interesting to read a field book right after coming back from the field.
It is hard to review a book like this for me.
I do not know what it would have been like to read this book and learn about some of the crazy and endearing behaviors she observed in gorillas for the first time.
I cannot just read of her time in the field with awe and not feel the exhaustion I felt in the field.
And I finish this book with a more positive feeling towards Dian than I had previously.
I read this while visiting the areas around Fossey's research station in Rwanda and was amazed at the extent to which she permeates the place to this day.
The accounts of the gorilla families - their histories, their day to day patterns of behavior, the growth of individuals from infants to adults taking on leadership roles within their groups - read like fascinating human stories.
The tales of the gorillas' interactions with poachers are uniquely heartbreaking because they read like stories of human crime and tragedy; the impacts on the lives of distinct individuals and the fabric of their groups is more complex than the poachers could have ever realized.
A stunning story of courage against all odds.
Dian Fosse was a very complicated person, stubborn, brilliant and courageous.
While researching the mountain gorilla Fosse was also trying to stop the poaching and extinction of animals in Africa, particularly the mountain gorillas.
She faced local hostility and a corrupt government.
Her words are sometimes matter of fact and on occasion so sensitive I couldn’t hold back the tears of frustration she must have faced.
Her murder still remains a mystery, some say poachers killed her, while others point fingers at the corrupt government.
The book gave me an in depth perspective ahead of seeing these wonderful animals.
I found the book moving as I was drawn into the stories of the families of gorillas that Fossey worked with.
Having had the wonderful privilege of seeing these superb animals (both habituated and part-habituated) I had a renewed sense of admiration for what Fossey must have experienced.
I felt having read the book before I spent time with the animals heightened my understanding and deepened my enjoyment.
An essential read for anyone who is going to spends time in the wild with Mountain Gorillas.
Dian Fossey was a fierce conservationist && strongly helped the mountain gorillas keep a foot old in this world.
Human encroachment of environments and poaching are threats to many animals.
Fossey fairly beats you this point of view throughout the book.
I didn't find it obnoxious though, given that I'm passionate about the environment.
My favorite parts of the book were following the lives and personalities of the various gorilla study groups.
The gorilla hierarchy is fascinating.
I cried at two of the many deaths described from the groups.
I'd like to see the Virungas as Fossey was them.
Gorilas en la niebla habla en profundidad de los hábitos y costumbres de los gorilas de montaña en África.
La autora se pasó 13 años dedicada a su observación y detalla sus costumbres, sus lazos familiares, su personalidad...
he aprendido mucho de gorilas con este libro.
Algunos de los gorilas con los que Dian Fossey más encariñada estaba murieron por esta causa y es duro de leer, pero lo es especialmente teniendo en mente el asesinato de la autora a manos de estas personas tan solo unos años después de terminar el libro.
I thought this was a pretty good book.
I had an obsession with gorillas when I was younger and realized that I had never read this book.
It was really neat reading about the details of the gorillas and their interactions with one another.
But if you don't like that kind of thing then this book might not be for you.I was a little confused about how this book was organized.
It is broken up into topics and does not follow the gorilla families chronologically.
This can get confusing at times but if you are paying attention it works out ok.
Ultimate Reading Challenge 2018. A book with an animal in the title.A great deal of the book deals with the poachers' various methods of operating and Fossey's attempts to thwart the poachers. Poignant in light of the fact that not only did they cause the death of a great many gorillas, but ultimately murdered Fossey for her efforts. Very interesting information about gorilla behavior within the family, feeding habits, sleeping habits, range, vocalizations, etc. As she pointed out, few could have done what she did under the conditions in which she worked. An excellent read.
I was captivated by this story and by Dian's words. She pulls you deep into the forest with her and speaks about the gorillas and their behavior is such a way that you feel you're actually seeing these things firsthand. It was a wonderful adventure. I'd read In the Shadow of Man by Jane Goodall and this book is easily just as incredible and informative. Highly recommended for any behavioral or animal biologist, or simply anyone who loves wildlife stories. Loved it!!
