https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/548961.The_Magic_Christian
Guy Grand is fabulously wealthy, and his favorite hobby is testing out his theory that there is nothing so degrading or so distasteful that someone won't do it for money.
Yes, I get it - it's a satire on American culture, and our obsession with power and money.
Perhaps I'm the only one who's not amused by a rich asshole who enjoys fucking with people.At this sorry point in our history, we have a manipulative game show host as a president, and unabashedly greedy legislators foaming at the mouth to take every penny from the less fortunate to give to the wealthy.
An extremely short (around 160 pages) and not quite satisfying farce about a billionaire, Guy Grand, who uses his vast wealth and free time to play elaborate and disgusting pranks on an unsuspecting public.
It's a fun concept that never really achieves the sort of dizzying hilarity I would have liked.
Our hero(?) simply moves from one stunt to another until the story culminates with a cruise from hell on the eponymous Magic Christian, a luxury liner owned by Grand, which he uses as a seagoing torture chamber for the wealthy.

The Magic Christian is a blatantly dark, absurd, and unrelenting satire about a capitalistic society's relationship to money.
In principle, I'm in agreement that actions spurred by money can be insane, inhumane--undignified, at best.
Our society screams that money is power, comfort, and happiness.
For some, Grant, the protagonist, could be viewed as a brilliant man turning all of society on its head because it deserves it.
I see Grant's actions as inane, unduly cruel, and non-instructive.
Good observations, but I only found a couple scenes in this satire to be actually funny.
The Magic Christian is the book that indirectly got Terry Southern the job of writing “Dr Strangelove” for Stanley Kubrick.Guy Grand is an eccentric billionaire who uses his money to make fools out of people.
A pretty typical idea is Guy Grand secretly buying a New York advertising agency, and then appointing a pygmy as chief executive who he pays to "scurry about the offices like a squirrel and chatter raucously in his native tongue" in front of all account executives and their important clients.
The Magic Christian was published in 1959, and is very much of that era.
The Magic Christian was also made into a 1969 British comedy film.
Terry Southern is best known for writing the screen play for Dr. Strangelove. It's one of my dad's favorite movies, but I always felt like I was not in the target generation. I didn't like this book much more than I liked the movie. It's about a man who uses his money to make fools out of people, and while the satirical commentary on greed is sometimes funny, it's never funny enough to be really witty, and never smart enough to be really insightful.
Yes, it's true. This IS one of the sickest, funniest, most original books of all time. You'll laugh your guts out, for all the wrong reasons.
Oh, how I love the Magic Christian.
This book (really a novella) is not for everyone.
But, the spirit of the piece remained.Money.
For those who really appreciate the absurdities of modern culture, Terry Southern is the man to smack them on the head and put a sticker on them.
How low will we all go?Taking on the establishment doesn't mean a lot these days, especially in the anti-baby boomer climate of the X and Y generation, but that doesn't mean this book won't appeal to anyone.
It was because Peter Sellers loved this novel.
If you're like me, you've probably wondered why all of the billionaires who own the world these days are so boring with their money.
Terry Southern does us all a favor by creating a billionaire whose sole purpose is to spread confusion and chaos everywhere he goes with his money.
The story itself has an episodic flashback structure with a present-day narrative underneath.
The flashbacks are great and the present narrative is decent, but a bit of a let down.
That said, those little spots of the book take two minutes to get through at the most, so it doesn't really matter.
All in all it's a funny little book.
Perhaps one of the funniest books I've ever read.
Southern was a first-rate humorist and satirist.This is one of his best-known works, and was made into a movie starring Peter O'Toole and Ringo Starr.
It is not really a novel in the sense of it being a long, developing narrative, but is more a collection of hilarious anecdotes centered around one character, the inimitable Guy Grand.
He is a super-wealthy, WASP financier who enjoys playing strange pranks and tricks on people to amuse himself and stir up trouble.
It is hilarious, and in Guy Grand, Southern created a memorable, amusing, and enigmatic character that deserves to live on.
for the record i also did not laugh in "there's something about mary" when ben stiller caught his penis and was in pain -- so if that made you laugh uproariously, this may be the book for you.it is getting two stars because the writing was crisp and i enjoyed the opening train scenes of the book introducing guy grand, and the drawing room scenes with his aunts, and silly ginger.
beyond that, the pranks that grand comes up with to test and torture people without resources like his are quite disgusting to me, and i didn't find them funny.
The STOP SMILING  Rebels + Outlaws Issue  features a 16-page feature by Nile Southern, son of maverick New Journalist and screenwriter Terry Southern. It includes an extensive interview between Terry Southern and Stanley Kubrick, a short story and unpublished letters, and new information on some of Southern's greatest works, including Candy and the screenplay for Dr. Strangelove.Click for more on the Rebels + Outlaws Issue
I did pick this book up and start cracking up almost immediately as I read the first page.
But after a while (a very short while, too) the strange, nefarious, deranged philosophy that Terry Southern seems to harbor creeps out.
At first it makes you nauseous, but then you think about it more and more and you roll your eyes.
We are all simpletons, sez Southern, still peeved about our desires no longer being met through the easy suckle of a mother's teet.
Instead of this I think you should read Melville's Confidence Man or Gaddis' JR.
It's a very rare book, in that it's virtually unique, but addresses an issue that might be on many of our minds: what totally unique and cool thing would you do with some extra billions of dollars?Aren't we a little bored seeing how all the billionaires in our midst conduct themselves, so traditionally, so usurpingly, so without imagination?
We know.But this guy.
He lives--when he's in town which isn't too often--with two doting aunts on the upper east side--and seems to have a great time plotting against the establishment, the status quo, and everything normal.
I was expecting so much more from the man who wrote the screenplay for Dr. Strangelove, one of my favorite movies. Sadly, this book just hasn't aged as well as Strangelove, and I don't think that my generation would find the practical jokes played by Guy Grand to be all that funny in the world we live in today. It only gets 2 stars because I laughed while reading the chapter on the Magic Christian, but that payoff was to little and came to late for me to recommend this book to anyone else.
An eccentric billionaire uses his money to play elaborate tricks on people. I was disappointed that this never got subversive or disturbing enough to be worthwhile. Just sort of cute and elaborate but never outrageous enough to really enjoy. It just raised my cheapness cockles without satisfying my perverse annoying-ness urges....but it's short so why not.
Well, sure, that was kinda funny. A millionaire spends big money on screwing with people and laughing at society. I can see why it might have seemed a bit more outrageous 50 years ago.
Just who do you think you are, Mister! Just what is your game?Grand's the name, easy-green's the game, said Guy with a twinkle. Play along?
Read it because Coop suggested it as one of his favorite books in a Boyd Rice documentary. BTW, Coop once said I had a "cute bottom," one of the highest compliments of my life.
A mere trifle and a one-off.
Actually one of the funniest bits in the book works because it’s not described: at one point Grand orders the contraction of a giant cauldron which he fills with animal blood, urine and excrement:Back at the site, Grand Guy donned his mask again, and dumped the remaining contents of the brief case into the vat.
In that respect the book is quite vicious and yet there’s an apparent innocence to Grand, a rather disconcerting innocence, as if he really doesn’t see how insulting he’s being.

Me gustó la riqueza imaginativa de la(s) historias. Es una novela ajena a muchas de las preocupaciones formales y estilísticas de sus contemporáneos. Breves excentricidades que no aspiran a seguir las reglas de relato convencional. Podrían verse como episodios de una serie donde domina el absurdo.
high hilaritywhat wont people do for cash?married men pay the most!
The novel revolves around Guy Grand, a billionaire who likes to spend his money to show how far people will go for money.
Grand finds out, although whether or not that really says anything about the moral character of the individual is questionable.
Again, he is trying to push the limits on how far one will go.This is an interesting concept, but the point is quickly made, and so even this short novel becomes repetitive.
While this repetition is tiring, it becomes irksome because many of the pranks say nothing about our moral limits.
This says nothing about people and their moral limits.
This 1960 novel by Terry Southern hinges on the "outrageous" premise that people will do anything for money---including humiliating themselves in public.
There are some funny episodes; the one in which Grand pays soap opera actors to interrupt the story by turning to the camera and admitting how absurd their show is stands out as a highlight.
Life has simply passed THE MAGIC CHRISTIAN by.Are you looking for a quick read that might bring you a smile or two?
This formerly "cutting edge" novel's blade, these days, is about as sharp as an episode of "Laugh-In".
Part of the reason for this is the opening of the book during which Guy Grand essentially tempts people to dive through simmering manure, urine, and blood for a chance at collecting free money.
It as as if Southern started the novel with his most impressive idea to get the reader hooked, and then wrote the rest of it somewhat quickly, hoping that the opening would keep people intrigued long enough to finish the very, very short novel.
What I did love about this book was that Guy Grand's untold billions allows him the leisure time to expose American culture as being quick to sacrifice honor for a quick buck.
Following this fantastic clatter and commotion -- which left him covered from the top of his head to his waist with food -- the expressionless valet would lean forward and unfasten the chair strap, and Guy would bolt from the table and rush pell-mell towards the kitchen, covered and dripping with food, hair matted with it, one arm extended full length as in a congratulatory handshake, shouting at the top of his voice: "MES COMPLIMENTS AU CHEF!" Upon his return to the table, he would be strapped into the chair again, hosed down by a little water pump from the valet's case, and dried with a big towel; then the performance would be repeated with each course.
I loved the scene in the restaurant where he wolfs down the food and swoons and carries on as if he's a food critic and has paid the waiters to act entirely underwhelmed by him.
Also, the cruise ship with the captain who is on video feed to each cabin.
Then, when they strike something in the sea, the captain becomes demonstrative for once and is announcing through video feed something, gesticulating like crazy the whole time, but the volume has been turned off to the cabins so no one can hear him.
The last scene of the captain where he acts drunk and close talks to the camera...
