https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24422492-never-never
I cannot decide how I want to rate Never Never: Part Two.On the one hand, as with part one, I found this book to be written in an extremely compelling way.
The "parts" are just a collection of a few chapters and each one is not particularly long so I know it wasn't serialized for length reasons.I guess it just bugs me that this "part" isn't anything close to resembling a full book that I can rate accurately.
It's like taking a few chapters from a book and trying to decide what rating it deserves based on that small piece.
Colleen.
Tarryn.
You two are killing me with these endings!I can't say I'm surprised, but I sure am relieved that I waited to read this one.
I'm would have been all kinds of ragey if I was looking at months of waiting.
So far, this series seems pretty impossible to review, especially since I have no fucking clue what is happening - I'm just as confused as Silas and Charlie.
But, I like it.
I love the suspense, the uncertainty, and I'm excited to see where book 3 will take me.
I have so many questions!Pre-release pouting.
I hate waiting.
NEVER NEVER: PART 2 is coming out May 17th!!!!!  "Best friends since they could walk. In love since the age of fourteen. Complete strangers since this morning. He'll do anything to remember. She'll do anything to forget."
Please see more of my reviews at www.bookaddicthaven.com After the huge cliffhanger at the end of the first book, Part Two has Silas searching for Charlie.
With the help of the clues they had written down, Silas does his best to find her.If you thought that the first book was unbelievable, Part Two takes it to another level.
It didn't need to be made more so.For most of this book, Charlie and Silas are separated.
This story continues to hold my interest, even if this book seemed to get a little crazier.
Holy Hell %#@$%#$%*$#@FULL REVIEW POSTEDOMG!!! I can’t even begin to describe how I feel after reading this one. But yes the gifs summed some of it for me. I must say that compared to Part 1 this one gives us more answers and as a reader I felt saner than I felt when I read Part 1. Me At The Beginning of this one Even though we still don’t have the answers of why they keep forgetting things but we have clues. But the funny thing is that after getting 1 answer, several more questions sprouts up.
I can’t even begin to describe how I feel after reading this one.
I must say that compared to Part 1 this one gives us more answers and as a reader I felt saner than I felt when I read Part 1.
Even though we still don’t have the answers of why they keep forgetting things but we have clues.
Like everyone out there I’m DYING to read the last part and I personally feel like the people who are going to wait until all the parts are released to read this series will be saner than I am right now.
Me After Reading - Why...Why does it have to end this way????
3 STARS! ★★★ "What I can tell you...the only thing I will tell you...is that you need to remember what it is that someone so desperately wanted you to forget. Oh boy, here we go again. I'm just gonna sum up this read quick because it's pretty much the same gist as the first instalment.This book in a nutshell:- Charlie & Silas is still going through the same amnesia shenninigan; we still don't know why/how/what is happening.- We're learning about CharSi (roll with me on the shipper name, will
I'm just gonna sum up this read quick because it's pretty much the same gist as the first instalment.This book in a nutshell:- Charlie & Silas is still going through the same amnesia shenninigan; we still don't know why/how/what is happening.- We're learning about CharSi (roll with me on the shipper name, will ya?) and their life before.
CoHo and Tarryn are officially evil ladies for being such a gigantic tease with this series!Never Never: Part Two is the second instalment in the Never Never series & must be read in order.
“Silas, the answers to your questions lie with someone who is very close to you.”    I still don't know what the hell is going on here.
Things pretty much are more complicated than the first book.
I don't know .
I just want part three like NOW, because I am dying here.
The suspense is killing me.
I have said this before and I WILL SAY IT AGAIN : Colleen Hoover and Tarryn Fisher, I hate you girls.
You are driving me crazy with this story and I LOVE IT!
One more thing, Tak
“Silas, the answers to your questions lie with someone who is very close to you.”
I still don't know what the hell is going on here.
Things pretty much are more complicated than the first book.
I don't know .
I just want part three like NOW, because I am dying here.
The suspense is killing me.
I have said this before and I WILL SAY IT AGAIN : Colleen Hoover and Tarryn Fisher, I hate you girls.
One more thing, Take me out of my MYSERY ( Courtesy of both of you ) and release part three ASAP
4 solid stars!
Lol!But other than that, every other thing in the story is either a surprise or a mystery and I was gripped from the beginning till the end that I read the entire story for less than two hours.The characters have become more mature and likable and I really loved reading the letters and the shifting POVs of the MCs. Silas' cheesiness could use a little tone down though.
Argh!At least, I now have a better understanding of the meaning of "Never, Never"Throw me more tomatoes, because as opposed to everyone who has read this, I love that cliffhanger!
WHYYYYYYYY.I want to give this the 5 stars it deserves BUT I CAN'T! I will always be mad at Colleen and Tarryn for dividing this story in three ridiculously short parts! This could've been an AWESOME standalone!!! It was too short, I started it at 12:30 am and finished at 2:00 am! It wasn't enough!!! Ugh. I love this story. I NEED part three RIGHT NOW.
Why didn't we learn from reading the first book that ended with a cliffhanger?I'm a little angry once I'm done with this book.
It's like a broken record playing in my head.This book picks up from the cliffhanger in the previous book where Silas was leaving himself notes before he loses his memory again.
In this book, one small clue was given, and that's the WHO IS INVOLVED in the whole "What the fuck is happening to Silas and Charlie?" situation.
I TOLD YOU NOT TO READ THIS BOOK.REFRAIN YOURSELF.
3 ~ 3.5 StarsThis installment total cleared up all of my questions!! Absolutely nothing is cleared up in this second installment and and I’m left with even more questions than I had after finishing book one of this series. Sadly, the couple wasn’t even together in this book but we are once again gifted with their dual POVS as they both try to figure out what is happening to them. The mystery is intriguing and the background on both characters has been built upon so bring on January 19th and blow me away with all the connections and answers!
After - Jan 28, 2016:While almost everyone is pissed off with the third and last part, I didn't really like this part. Nothing happens. Nothing. And the MCs were separated for the whole time. UGH.Before - Jan 10, 2015:Part TwoFuck youBut I stillNeed you
I don't know. Might pick it up again when the final installment is out but at this point, I really don't care about anything or anyone anymore. I'm not pissed.. or disappointed. I just... don't care. Peace out!-------------------------------------The cover says..a. someone's gonna dieb. i'm on my period but i still wanna swimc. they're reliving Jaws
3,5 Confusing Stars.  This is the second installment of the “Never Never” series and while Charlie is missing somewhere and having strange dreams about her and Silas past, Silas is trying to find out what the heck is wrong with them. Why they keep losing their memories and what did happen between them and with their families in the past that could have originated all of this? Unfortunately, every time he believes he’s going to get an answer, even more questions appear. When what was supposed to
This is the second installment of the “Never Never” series and while Charlie is missing somewhere and having strange dreams about her and Silas past, Silas is trying to find out what the heck is wrong with them.
Yes, we had more answers about what really happened between them in the past, but still, almost nothing about the present.
The letters were a great detail (and the reason why I’m rating it 3,5) and allowed us to see more of them as couple, but there was too much going around and absolutely no explanation (or clues) to why everything was happening.
(hide spoiler)]Cheating:  (view spoiler)[ Not in the present.
“Until then, never lose hope. Never stop loving me. Never forget. Never Never.”  Oh jeez what was that?? I'm totallyMIND-BLOWN!Whoa! That was one helluvah crazy ride!This novella was a lot better than the first because I finally found some answers that I was craving since the first installment, though I admit I'm still not satisfied. Even though CoHo and Tarryn revealed some of the unknown, still-- I can feel that there are a lot more to unravel. THEY WERE SIMPLY NOT ENOUGH! All throughout the
That was one helluvah crazy ride!This novella was a lot better than the first because I finally found some answers that I was craving since the first installment, though I admit I'm still not satisfied.
It totally picked my interest from page 1 up to the last.My favorite of this novella is of course, Silas's POV.
I love every moment I'm in his head like seriously, the humor and the sexiness combined into one.
Very well executed by these two amazing authors!
I need Never Never: Part Three like RIGHT NOW!(Buddyread with the super duper lovely AJ)Rating: 5 Stars
Me when I saw the coverWhen I saw the date it will be releasedThen I remember the feels on the first bookto Colleen and TarrynUPDATE: COLLEEN AND TARRYN OH GOD WHAT HAVE YOU DONE

urghhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh! Dear CoHo and Taryn Fisher,Are you trying to wound my soul?! Are you trying to terrorize my mind?! I have no purpose in life anymore, what can I do but,BEFORE MY SOUL DEPARTS I HAVE ONE MESSAGE. RELEASE BOOK 3 AND SAVE LIVES BEFORE IT'S TOO LATE! SAVE HUMANITY! :'( Peace out.
HELLO TARHO!!!! WHAT THE HELL ARE YOU TWO TRYING TOO DO TO US!!!??? THAT ENDING!!!! OMG WHAT IS EVEN HAPPENING!!!!?? FREAKING OUTI HATE SHORT STORIES BUT THIS HAS ME SO HOOKED! I need more Silas I need more Charlie and I sure as hell need more answers!
"¿Cómo es posible extrañar a alguien que no puedes recordar?".3.5🌟 Aaaaahhhhh otro final abierto.¿Por qué hacen esto?.Si este libro fue mucho más corto que el primero.
Y inmaduros.Silas y Charlie me encantaron, ahora, ¿Quien es en realidad Camarón?, Espero que lo aclaren en el próximo libro.Es horrible lo que les pasa, y todavía no se explica bien el por qué, tengo teorías pero..Me encanto el acto de Silas a Charlie en el último momento.Ya voy por el tercero.
I still haven't figured anything out.
The mystery.Silas is back with some help from himself this time.
Charlie is still missing and Silas is doing everything he can to find her with the little knowledge he has.
COME ON SILAS!
Figure this shit out.
We know a little more than we did in part one, but not much.This is turning out to be a sweet love story between Silas and Charlie.
The journal entries show just how much they thought of each other and how in love they really were.Finished this in a matter of hours.Oh and massive cliffhanger...
4.5 Stars!Loved it! Except for the fact that it once again ended with a cliffhanger... Can't wait for book 3! :D
I am speechless. I can't even...HOLY MOTHER OF CLIFFHANGERS.GIVE ME THE PART 3!!Expect for a cliffhanger, but this is a  better cliffhanger  than the previous one. This is making me crazy. I'm really impressed of how this turned out. There are some hints and pieces in this crazy puzzle, but it's not enough to answer all my questions. At least, I have a little idea of what's happening between Silas and Charlie.There's more of Silas' perspective than Charlie's, and I think I need more of Charlie's
better cliffhanger
At least, I have a little idea of what's happening between Silas and Charlie.There's more of Silas' perspective than Charlie's, and I think I need more of Charlie's side.
A part of me doesn't trust ANY of the side characters because I feel there's something weird is going to happen.
I only trust Silas and Charlie to fix whatever suspenseful, rivalry between their fathers and their own issues.I can't wait for the third one.
I'm ready on whatever surprise Colleen Hoover and Tarryn Fisher will write and this is whole idea is crazy genius.
;) HAHAHAHAHA!!=====================================If there will be a part 3, and this ends up as a cliffhanger.I swear...

“I don’t know where I am.I don’t know where “I” am.I…I…I…Who am I?”- Silas Nash* * * “I know that’s weird, but that’s what you love about me. You love how much I love you. Because yes. I love you way too much. More than anyone deserves to be loved. But I can’t help it. You make normal love hard. You make me psycho-love you.”- Silas Nash
There are things in this world that I will never understand, and that includes: why is this even a serial? Yeah, I just can't. I thought part one was okay, but this one was just all over the place and completely pointless. Everything was incredibly predictable, by the way.Full review to come.
Type:  Book 2 of 3 from Never Never novella seriesPOV:  First Person - DualRating: The last book ended with the disappearance of Charlie and this book predominantly of Silas looking for her while. The rest well… pretty much the same.For the first 50% I felt like I was reading book 1 all over again. Both of them still can’t remember. Both of them still confused. Both of them still trying to re-learn the same thing.  I’d rather love you at the bottom than despise you at the top.  Thank god we got
We learned a bit more of why Charlie the way she was and about their love from where it started.
A few other characters also played a bigger part in this book.I think the biggest problem with this series is that it was forced to be novellas instead of a full book due to one of the author’s contractual stipulation.
But the thing is, because it was broken up, each book felt incomplete and stretched out.For those who are interested in reading this series, my advice is definitely wait for the final book to come out before embarking on this mysterious amnesiac tale.
UPDATE: First read in May 2015 and re-read in February 2016.Original Thoughts:Oh Lordy!! Another cliffhanger!! Although admittedly not as bad as last time. Colleen Hoover and Tarryn Fisher writing together should be a permanent thing! These books are so bloody awesome!! I love Silas and Charlie so much! They are so damn perfect together. The letters between the two of them were amazing. I was gripped. I was wowed. I need the next instalment like yesterday!!
Through the eyes of our two adorable characters I now have an idea of how it must feel to lose all memory of who you are.
Everything is too vivid, too detailed to be a dream.'The book is a big mystery and it didn't give me a lot of clues as to what might be the real reason for their memory loss, so I was completely in the dark.
Silas was the character that made me love this book.
I could tell how the characters are so different as one writes from Silas' POV and the other writes from Charlie's POV.
EDIT #2 It's official. Colleen and Tarryn are trying to kill us. And I must say that in my case it's freaking working!!!! I really hope Part 3's release is close because you can't finish two novels like this and expect me to keep functioning like a normal person.I loved all the letters and how Silas got to know himself and Charlie through them. I love how they love each other even with the memory loss. I love how they seem to always find each other against all odds. EDIT #1 First: I need it! NO

