https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4451.People_of_the_Lie
You don't think about it, because it's 'morbid.' When you're faced with the painful realization that your marriage is lousy, you run away from that too.
And when they're not so easy to get rid of, you go running to anything that will give you relief no matter how wicked or evil or destructive.
"--------"The feeling that a healthy person often experiences in a relationship with an evil one is revulsion.
Unless you know very well what you are doing, the best thing you can do when faced with evil is to run the other way.
kötülüğün bir hastalık olduğunu vurgulayan bir kitap.
I never stopped reading and three days later I had finished this book, which for me proved to be a spell binding page-turner, in which Dr. Peck relates certain of his experiences as a psychiatrist, particularly in psychotherapy with evil people.
And Peck speaks of Hell in the book.
And we can only combat evil with the presence of God. Peck points out that those who crusade not for “God in themselves” but against “the devil in others” never succeed.
Pecks suggests in the book that it is time for science to begin to study evil more closely.
An incredible eye-opener for anyone who has a family member who seem to suck the life out of everyone around them, who makes all who oppose them feel so guilty for their actions, who seems to need to control everyone who gets near them, and who seems to personify evil.
Some cases he describes are really horrifying, you will not believe how such people destroy other family members without feeling a bit of remorse or understanding their guilt.
I did not give this a full 5 stars because near the end of the book Dr. Peck explores exorcism as a possible means of fixing such people .....
This is probably one of the scariest books I've read, and the reason for this is due to it being non-fiction and based on Peck's experiences with certain patients.
Peck tries to formulate a hypothesis of evil, but doesn't satisfy the scientific method, and even though his examples can be attributed to 'dark' characteristics or conditioned behaviors (learning through modeling, over time), providing a reasonable framework for his hypothesis, much of what Peck states (what constitutes 'evil') would be considered an amusement by scientists.
Despite this, the book does strike home as it provides common examples.
There are things I don't like about this book, but I started reading it again because I own it and have no other convenient/available book in mind to address an issue of concern to me right now: why people are so shamelessly FUCKED UP, remorseless, and seemingly devoid of empathy with apparently no desire to be better or recognition that anything is wrong with them, even a little bit.Once again I just couldn't continue when he starts in with the exorcism bullshit.
Which in my placebo & ritual embracing mindset I supposedly can go along with a little ways, but in reality when it comes to reading this book I just can't keep reading it.
The Bible talks about evil and even about a personality called “the devil.” Jesus talks about wolves and is murdered by some.
This is why they are the ‘people of the lie.’” I wonder - what do evil people who intensely desire to appear good do on Sunday morning?Dr. Scott was a psychiatrist and bestselling author (A Road Less Traveled).
They want to keep their demons.Towards the end of the book, after giving the example of Eichmann being declared “perfectly sane” by a psychiatrist at his trial, Dr. Scott asks, “What are we do to with the evil when their masquerade of sanity is so successful, their destructiveness so ‘normal’?
In The People of the Lie, Peck unveils his dissatisfaction with psychology’s attempt, or lack there of, at naming evil.
Peck “names” evil by sharing a cornucopia of case vignettes.
According to Peck, evil, at its core, is consistent deceit and narcissism.
So, the thing that remains unclear to me is Peck’s intended purpose for carving out a psychology of evil, as opposed to placing it under the umbrella of narcissism.
Towards the end of the book, in the chapter titled The Danger and The Hope, Peck did allude to the fact that love and acceptance can absorb evil, but it must be done carefully and intentionally.
It might just be that the word "evil" has been so manipulated and co-opted for misaligned purposes that it has lost its true meaning.This is an easy book to read (as far as reading about evil goes), and I really enjoyed reading each of the case studies that Peck presents.
For sure, it's a controversial book, but I think the importance lies in the fact that Peck does not use "evil" as a way of dehumanizing a person in the same way that people often do with truly evil people.
Keats described this world as 'the vale of soul-making,' and whether they know it or not, when they help their patients clean away the mud, psychotherapists are engaged in the activity of saint-making.
Whereas years ago I would have been caught in their webs and would have been given a feeling of an obligation to do things that I couldn't see were selfishly asked of me.I also have met people who fit the exact profile of someone who is on the dark side a little too deeply, and you'll be shocked to know that they will read this book and begin to use it as ammunition to label everyone as evil and will never see it in themselves.
There are some people who have great difficulty dealing with evil in their life.
Some people even prefer to deny that there is such a thing as evil.
M. Scott Peck states clearly that: “...
we are all in combat against evil.” This book has helped me an awful lot to deal with evil.
I used to have great difficulty dealing with anger.
This book deals with many aspects of evil in ways that I find very helpful and practical.
M. Scott Peck utilizes several actual case studies to illustrate his points.
An examination of group evil.
-- than to set apart some as "evil." Peck acknowledges the continuum, but I think he focuses on the truly evil because he wants the psychiatric/psychological community to acknowledge and study evilness.
His goal is not so much to help evil people, who he has found in his practice to not want help, but primarily to help their victims -- including their children.
I don't agree with all of Peck's theology here -- he says he's a Christian and I can't say he's not, but he's a little skewed in places -- but I think this is a fascinating, insightful and helpful book.
He claims that he often comes across evil people in his work as a psychotherapist.
The evil people are not necessarily the ones who come in for treatment.
Often it is a family member of the evil person who comes in for treatment.
Some of Peck's examples are of parents who pretend to love their children, but actually try to sabotage them.
Instead, Peck says that Jesus taught that we should first judge ourselves, before we judge others, and that when we do judge others, we should do so carefully.
Peck also says that we should heal evil people by loving them.
Peck's evolution from standard, "we can fix it with therapy" psychologist to a believer in unapologetic evil is an honesty those working in social services should realize. Sociopaths and psychopaths are out there; there is often a perception these people are "soulless" , but perhaps, it is simply another species of soul, predatory to the good nature of the human race.
MY musings:"evil" and "sin" and "resurrection" ...and many other expressions …. are expressions of the religious domain; just like “gene” and “mitochondria” and “psychosis” …are of the science domain….Science separated from Religion."  One who had read, or known about, “The road less traveled” would argue with Peck: so, discipline is not enough to solve all problems. Evil itself is a human problem, according to Peck. [And that’s a bit new] Science should address this problem; the evil problem.“E
[And that’s a bit new] Science should address this problem; the evil problem.“Evil, the ultimate disease”.In an interview I watched, Peck was confronted with these questions: isn’t “evil” a moral issue?
Why taking “evil” as a diagnostic category just like the other medical aberrations/diseases?
More interestingly, Peck at a certain point of his life was investigating about this “evil” definition.
In that interview Peck gave numbers: only 2 to 3 % of population would fall on that category: the insane that “no longer come back”.“Evil interferes with growth …we got to know what our enemy is”; the danger within us.Peck has, nonetheless, hope in healing human evil.
He is such an intellectual guy I have to accept that it is expected that he would be scientific, but by the end I became very tired of his ongoing attention to 'all sides'...he kept rambling about why we must begin a study of evil and have a psychology of evil, then flip to why it is dangerous to do so, and then flop back to why it is still more dangerous not to, and round and round.I do think this book offers interesting insights about the reality of evil.
But, people who do care about others can be hurt terribly by people who can only see the world from their own point of view.Peck explains how people like this function, how to identify them, and he gives narratives about narcissists he has dealt with to help underscore the types of behavior that they commit.
They couldn't understand why that youngest son became depressed.They couldn't because, as narcissists, they only thing they can understand is their own world, their own experiences, their own cares.
It is depressing--it's about evil people.
I didn't love it because it's happy, but because it offers insight into absolutely evil people.
Now, "evil" is tricky--most people don't believe in evil anymore.
And even trickier--evil people make you feel crazy.
But it feels true because they really believe it.This book is great if you like psychology, like analyzing people, and are unfortunate enough to be forced to deal with these rigid, self-deceptive people.
But, reader, certainly YOU don't know any such people.
It's sort of a niche book.
I disagreed with his basic premise, and yet, I still kept reading.
I sat through his case studies of "evil" people who seemed more like people lacking basic functioning and parenting skills and less like any sort of "evil." I read it solidly, continuing on because I kept thinking there was a pay off sooner or later.
For two weeks, I forced myself to read it just 20 minutes before bed, and then just 10, every other day.
I think that his arguments were illogically posited, and, although no specific examples spring to mind, I kept thinking that his if/then statements were in continuous breakdown.
I am finding this book a fascinating read (which totally surprised my daughter, since I'm not much given to reading psychology books!) But in light of experiences in my life over the past year, it has helped me to wrap my mind around how people you loved and thought you knew can change in ways you never imagined.
I don't agree with all the author says (of course!) and have some additional ideas as well, but I would highly recommend this book to anyone whose life has been affected by people who lie....to themselves and others.
At times this book will scare you to death. He names human and cosmic evil as no ohe I have ever read.
“The purpose of this book is to encourage us to take our human life so seriously that we also take human evil far more seriously….”ParentingAttributed to Erich Fromm : “…the desire of certain people to control others—to make them controllable, to foster their dependency, to discourage their capacity to think for themselves, to diminish their unpredictability and originality, to keep them in line.” “whose aim it is to avoid the inconvenience of life by transforming others into obedient automatons, robbing them of their humanity” As opposed to “one who appreciates and fosters the variety of life forms and the uniqueness of the individual….”Commenting on a sad case study: “Whenever there is a major deficit in parental love, the child will, in all likelihood, respond to that deficit by assuming itself to be the cause of the deficit, thereby developing an unrealistically negative self-image.”EvilCompares malignant narcissism (a defense against psychic harm) to evil.
The author attempts to ascertain the differences between a scientific and a religious approach to the investigation of human illnesses.
In so doing he makes the claim that science contents itself with "little mysteries" while religion embraces "bigger mysteries" and it is this aspect of religion that he believes lends it more competency in studying and dealing with human evil.
Despite my qualms with his statements on science and religion I trudged on in the belief that perhaps I could focus on the psychology aspect of the book and skip the religious tidbits.
I could well relate to his frustration and revulsion, it gave his accounts more verisimilitude.I remain unconvinced of Peck's identification of evil with a specific form of personality disorder.
I found it very interesting that Peck thinks that Augustine's idea of evil as an absence of good has been discarded, when in fact it remains a part of Aristotelian philosophy and Thomistic philosophy and theology in this day.
"The people whose cases Peck describes were seriously sick and hated their sickness, but they could not get better because in some fundamental sense they had chosen to be that way." A psychological insight with shades of Dante.
This is a meaty book, but definitely worth the read.
I think this is a book that would never be published today, but is so necessary for today, that I would definitely pick up a copy to hold onto while you still can.
In this book, the author begins to discuss his belief in the devil (that he is real) and that exorcism is likely the only way to cure these people.
He does have another book on this issue which I've yet to read but is on my TBR list.
Evil fascinates me. It operates throughout our society largely unnoticed by people who fail to identify it (not as easy as you may think it to be), or by optimistic people who would like to think it does not exist. While Peck doesn't get in detail about the two exorcism he partook in, he clearly identifies evil on three different levels. This book really opens your eyes to the psychology of evil, the shadows, and the real possibility of demons. I recommend this book to anyone, even though I picked it up more for research.
If you've always wondered why some people are evil and want to try to understand why some people are evil this book will definitely shed light on evil and at the end is a testament to the power of love to overcome it.
Indeed, the author agrees by the end of the book that our only hope to heal evil is with love.
All of them are facets of the truth that the only ultimate way to conquer evil is to let it be smothered within a willing, living human being.
after spending several hundred pages arguing that some people are so heartless, so lacking in empathy, so self-centered, so deceitful and self-deceiving that their narcissism reaches the level of "evil," he speculates that they can only be healed by sacrificial love.
(He admits that his "Evil" is very similar to Erich Fromm's "malignant narcissism," and he quotes Fromm a lot, so maybe I should read that book next.) But his descriptions of conversations with people he diagnoses as "evil" are scarily recognizable, and I think the constellation of traits he describes are right-on ...
Scott Peck when I was working in the book industry back in the 90's; mostly because "The Road Less Traveled" was famous for being on the paperback best seller list for so long, but I had never actually read anything by him.
I found this book enormously appealing and just a bit disturbing.
A caveat before I start: I read the 1983 first edition and don't know if there are newer, revised editions or not.
I do find, however, the chapters on exorcism to be a bit disturbing and anachronistic.
A fascinating read with a few eye-popping moments of disbelief thrown in.
Ever person who was raised to "turn the other cheek" when faced with evil, should READ THIS BOOK. An eye-opener for me, who was raised in a middle-class suburb and told to be nice to everyone. Even Jesus told the Sadducees and Pharisees that he just didn't have time to waste on them - it's okay to not engage Evil - and to run when you sense it is near.
